OCTOBER TERM, 1945.

446

326 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

petitioner's rights to adjudication by the district court
for northern Mississippi will undoubtedly affect those
rights. But it does not operate to abridge, enlarge or
modify the rules of decision by which that court will adjudicate its rights. It relates merely to "the manner and
the means by which a right to recover . . . is enforced."
Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, 326 U. S. 99, 109. In this
sense the rule is a rule of procedure and not of substantive
right, and is not subject to the prohibition of the Enabling
Act.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JusrIc JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

RAILROAD RETIREMENT BOARD

ET AL. V.

DUQUESNE WAREHOUSE CO.
NO. 95.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.*

Argued November 14, 1945.-Decided January 2, 1946.
Where a warehouse company wholly owned by a railroad company
* loads and unloads goods shipped on the railroad, it performs services
"in connection with the transportation of . . . property by railroad"; it is an "employer" within the meaning of § 1 (a) of the
Railroad Retirement Act of 1937 and § 1 (a) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act of 1938; and its employees are entitled
to the benefits of those Acts, even though the services are rendered
to, and paid for by, the shippers. P. 453.
148 F. 2d 473, reversed; 149 F. 2d 507, affirmed.
No. 95.

CERTIORARI,

325 U. S. 848, to review affirmance

of a judgment, 56 F. Supp. 87, setting aside a decision of
*Together with No. 103, Duquesne Warehouse Co. v. Railroad
Retirement Board et al., on certiorari to the United States Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia.

RAILROAD BOARD v. DUQUESNE CO.
446

447

Opinion of the Court.

the Railroad Retirement Board holding that respondent
is an "employer" within the meaning of § 1 (a) of the
Railroad Retirement Act.
No. 103.

CERTIORARI, 325 U. S. 848, to review reversal

of a judgment setting aside a decision of the Railroad Retirement Board holding that petitioner is an "employer"
within the meaning of § 1 (a) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act.
Mr. Robert L. Stern, with whom Solicitor General
McGrath, Messrs. David L. Kreeger, Myles F. Gibbons
and David B. Schreiber were on the brief, for the Railroad
Retirement Board. Mr. Willard H. McEwen, with whom
Messrs. Frank L. Mulholland and Clarence M. Mulholland were on the brief, for the Brotherhood of Railway
& Steamship Clerks, etc. et al., petitioners in No. 95 and
respondents in No. 103.
Mr. John Dickinson, with whom Messrs. George R.
Allen, John SpaldingFlanneryand R. Aubrey Bogley were
on the brief, for the Duquesne Warehouse Company.
Messrs. John J. Hickey and Walter W. Ahrens filed a
brief on behalf of the American Warehousemen's Association, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance in No. 95 and
reversal in No. 103.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Railroad Retirement Act of 1937, 50 Stat. 307, 45
U. S. C. § 228a, established a system of annuity, pension,
and death benefits for employees of designated classes of
employers. The Railroad Retirement Board adjudicates
claims of eligible employees for the various types of benefits created by the Act. § 10 (b). The eligibility of an
employee for such benefits is based on service to those
included in the Act's definition of "employer." § 1 (a).

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

The question arose whether the Duquesne Warehouse Co.
was such an "employer." The Board after a hearing
found in No. 95 that it was. Duquesne, pursuant to the
provisions of § 11 of the Act, brought suit in a district
court to compel the Board to set aside its order.' That
court rendered judgment for Duquesne. 56 F. Supp. 87.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, by a divided vote.
148 F. 2d 473.
The Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act of 1938,
52 Stat. 1094, 45 U. S. C. § 351, established a system of
unemployment insurance for employees of designated
classes of employers. The Railroad Retirement Board
adjudicates claims of eligible employees for unemployment insurance payments. § 5 (b). The eligibility of
an employee for such payments is based on service to those
included in the Act's definition of "employer." § 1 (a).
The question arose whether Duquesne was such an "employer." The Board after a hearing found in No. 103 that
it was. The findings were identical to those which the
Board made in No. 95 and were based on the same record.
Duquesne, pursuant to § 5 (f), brought suit in the district
court for the District of Columbia to set aside that order.
That court gave judgment for Duquesne. The Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia reversed. 149 F. 2d
507. Since the definition of "employer" under both Acts
was the same, there was presented a conflict in decisions
which led us to grant the petitions for writs of certiorari.
The material part of the definition of "employer" contained in each Act is as follows:
"The term 'employer' means any carrier . . . and any
company which is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by one or more such carriers or under common con1The Brotherhood of Railway and Steamship Clerks, Freight
Handlers, Express and Station Employees and its president, G. M.
Harrison, were allowed to intervene as defendants in No. 95. The

Brotherhood intervened in No. 103.

RAILROAD BOARD v. DUQUESNE CO.

449

Opinion of the Court.

446

trol therewith, and which operates any equipment or
facility or performs any service . . . in connection with
the transportation of passengers or property by railroad,
or the receipt, delivery, elevation, transfer in transit, refrigeration or icing, storage, or handling of property transported by railroad . . ."
Duquesne meets the requirements of the first part of
the definition. For it is a corporation, all of whose stock
is owned by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, a carrier by railroad. The question is whether Duquesne "performs any service" (1) "in connection with the transportation of . . . property by railroad" or (2) "in connection
with .

.

. the receipt, delivery . . . storage, or handling

of property transportod by railroad."
Duquesne operates two warehouses owned and leased
to it by the Pennsylvania, one in Pittsburgh and the other
in East Liberty, within the Pittsburgh city limits. Each
warehouse is on a rail siding of the Pennsylvania. At
East Liberty, Duquesne handles and stores carload sugar,
all of which comes in and goes out over the Pennsylvania.
The sugar is handled by Duquesne under so-called storagein-transit privileges covered by tariffs filed by the Pennsylvania with the Interstate Commerce Commission.2
Duquesne unloads the sugar from the Pennsylvania's cars
on arrival and reloads the sugar into Pennsylvania's cars
on their departure. By the tariff the owners are required
to do the loading and unloading. The work of unloading
and loading is performed for the owner by Duquesne, who
shipments are consigned to the owner care of Duquesne,
the route being designated "Penn R R - For Stge in Transit." Outgoing shipments are consigned to the owner; they have a transit
record number and are marked "accorded transit privilege at East
Liberty, Pa." That is, sugar in carload lots transported by the Pennsylvania to consignees at East Liberty may be delivered there to the
consignees at the local rates. When it is subsequently shipped out via
the same road it is entitled to be charged the through rate from the
first point of shipment to the ultimate destination.
2Incoming

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U.S.

bills the owner for that service as well as for storage and
other services rendered. At its Pittsburgh warehouse
Duquesne handles freight which has come in, or is destined to movement, over the Pennsylvania, or which has
both come in and is going out over the Pennsylvania. The
commodities handled at that place are hauled in both carload and less-than-carload lots. Duquesne loads and unloads the carload shipments as they arrive at and depart
from its platform, stores the goods, and performs other
handling services in connection with their receipt and
delivery. Duquesne charges the owner for these services.
In the case of incoming less-than-carload shipments the
freight is unloaded by the Pennsylvania from the cars to
its platform and is delivered to and received by Duquesne
there. In the case of outgoing less-than-carload shipments, Duquesne delivers the freight on the Pennsylvania's
platform. Pennsylvania then issues its bill of lading, loads
the freight into cars, and moves them out. During a part
of the period relevant here,' Duquesne also performed unloading, storing and reloading services and certain other
transit services at Erie, Pennsylvania, in connection with
carload shipments of newsprint paper which were entitled
to storage-in-transit privileges under the tariffs. These
services were similar to those performed by Duquesne at
East Liberty.'
Of the total space used by Duquesne at its warehouses
at East Liberty and Pittsburgh, about 30 per cent was
devoted to the handling of freight accorded storage-inaBetween August 1937 and May 1938. The Board found that
Duquesne is now and has been at least since August 28, 1935, an
employer within the meaning of the Acts.
,'Duquesne also has "salvage freight" agreements with the Pennsylvania under which the Pennsylvania turns over to it, for sale or
other disposition, "over" and damaged freight which has been refused
or unclaimed by the owner. For this service Duquesne retains 10 per
cent of the gross plus certain costs and remits the balance to the
Pennsylvania.

RAILROAD BOARD v. DUQUESNE CO.
446

451

Opinion of the Court.

transit privileges in 1936; about 12.5 per cent in 1937;
about 12.5 per cent in 1938. During the period of operation at Erie, all the space at that point was used for such

freight.
It appears that the definition of "employer" in the
present Acts derives without substantial change from the
Railway Labor Act, 48 Stat. 1185,45 U. S. C. § 151, First
We are referred to the legislative history of the Railway
Labor Act which was sponsored by Mr. Eastman, Federal Co-ordinator of Transportation. Reliance is made
on his testimony at the hearings' as indicating that the
words in the carrier definition in the Railway Labor Act
descriptive of transportation service were taken from the
Interstate Commerce Act," 41 Stat. 474, 54 Stat. 899, 49
U. S. C. § 1. The Railroad Retirement Act of 1937 was
sponsored by both labor and management, whose views
were presented at the hearings by George M. Harrison.8
References are made to his testimony that the carrier
affiliates embraced within the definition of "employer" are
5The corresponding part of the definition of "carrier" contained
in § 1 First of the Railway Labor Act reads as follows: "any company which is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by or under
common control with any carrier by railroad and which operates any
equipment or facilities or performs any service (other than trucking
service) in connection with the transportation, receipt, delivery, elevation, transfer in transit, refrigeration or icing, storage, and handling
of property transported by railroad . . ."
0
Hearings, S. Committee on Interstate Commerce on S. 3266, 73d
Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 10-11, 145. At the latter point he testified, "I
am inclined to believe that for the present it would be well not to go
beyond carriers and their subsidiaries engaged in transportation."
And see Hearings, H. Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce on H. R. 7650, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 17, 18.
7
See. 1 (3) (a) of the Interstate Commerce Act includes in the
definition of transportation "all services in connection with the receipt, delivery, elevation, and transfer in transit, ventilation, refrigeration or icing, storage, and handling of property transported."
8
See Hearings, H. Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce,
on H. R. 6956, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 10-11, 82.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

those who are engaged in service that is part of railway
transportation.' Duquesne argues on the basis of that
legislative history that any service "in connection with
the transportation" of property or any service "in connection with" the receipt, etc., of "property transported by
railroad," as used in the present Acts, means that kind of
activity which is defined by the Interstate Commerce Act
as forming a part of transportation service. On the other
hand, the Board argues that the statutory definition of
"femployer" is not so restricted. It stresses the broad
sweep of the statutory language and the purpose to bring
under the Act affiliates which carry out portions of the

railroad's business. "
' See Hearings, aupra, note 8, pp. 16, 17. He testified at the latter
point that carrier affiliates were included "when those companies are
engaged in the business of transporting passengers or property for
the railroad, or other service that is a part of railway transportation."
And see Hearings, S. Committee on Interstate Commerce on S. 2395,
10 Cong., 1st Seas., p. 11.
75th
SSenator Wagner, who was in charge of the Retirement
Bill in the
Senate, stated: "the coverage is extended expressly to railroad labor
organizations, railroad associations, traffic associations, and is made
more clearly applicable to subsidiaries of railroad companies such as
refrigerator storage and other facilities. In other words, it covers a

greater number of employees, not only those directly in the railroad
business but those associated with it, and in that regard it is more
liberal than the present act." 81 Cong. Rec. 6223.
In S. Rep. No. 697, 75th Cong., 1st Ses., p. 7, it is stated, after
noting that casual service and operation is excluded, "In addition
to trucking service, it is intended to exclude employees of a contractor who may, for example, be occasionally employed by a 'carrier'
to repair a depot or build a bridge. Contractors, other than those
which perform casual service, would not be excluded, irrespective of
whether control be legal or de facto. De-facto control may be exercised not only by direct ownership of stock, but by means of agreements, licenses, and other devices which insure that the operation of
the company is conducted in the interests of the carrier.
"By these changes there are brought within the scope of the act
substantially all those organizations which are intimately related to

.RAILROAD BOARD v. DUQUESNE CO.
446

453

Opinion of the Court.

We do not find it necessary to resolve that controversy.
At the very least the phrases in question embrace activities
which form a part of transportation service within the
meaning of the Interstate Commerce Act. Duquesne
regularly performs service of that character. It is, therefore, an "employer" within the meaning of the present
Acts.
We have n6ted the loading and unloading services rendered by Duquesne. The duty of unloading carload
freight ordinarily rests with the shipper or consignee.
PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. Kittanning Co., 253 U. S. 319, 323.
But it is a transportation service within the meaning of
the Interstate Commerce Act. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co.
v. United States, 295 U. S. 193, 200; Barringer & Co. v.
United States, 319 U. S. 1, 6. Its cost may be included
in the line-haul tariffs or separately fixed or allowed as an
additional charge. Adams v. Mills, 286 U. S. 397, 410415; Loading and Unloading CarloadFreight, 101 I. C. C.
394; Berg Industrial Alcohol Co. v. Reading Co., 142
I. C. C. 161, 163-164; Livestock Loaded and Unloaded at
Chicago, 213 I. C. C. 330, 336-337. See Haberman v.
PennsylvaniaR. Co., 234 I. C. C. 167, dealing with lessthan-carload lots.
Duquesne's answer is that the service of loading and
unloading is done by it for its customers, that these services are rendered before railroad transportation has begun
the transportation of passengers or property by railroad in the United
States."
It is also pointed out that various railroad associations are included
in the Acts and that their express inclusion was to make clear what
had been previously implied. Id., pp. 6-7. It is therefore argued that
since some of those associations are not engaged in railroad transportation, Congress did not intend the coverage of the Acts to be
restricted to organizations engaged in transportation either in the
ordinary sense or in the sense in which the Interstate Commerce Act
uses the term.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U.S.

or after it has ended, that they are not and cannot be a
part of railroad transportation since the tariff of the
Pennsylvania forbids it from performing the services.
Duquesne's conclusion is that under such circumstances
loading and unloading are not and cannot be a part of
railroad transportation. The question, however, is not
whether in these cases the service of loading and unloading is being rendered by the Pennsylvania ind is, therefore, in fact a part of its transportation service. It is not
whether the affiliate would itself be subject to the Interstate Commerce Act. It is whether a carrier's affiliate is
performing a service that could be performed by the carrier
and charged for under the line-haul tariffs. If it is such a
service, it is a transportation service within the meaning
of the present Acts Senator Wagner, who was in charge
of the Retirement Bill in the Senate, stated that its coverage included "not only those directly in the railroad business but those associated with it." " And George M. Harrison, on whose testimony Duquesne heavily relies, stated
that affiliates of carriers were included "when those companies are engaged in the business of transporting passengers or property for the railroad, or other service that is
a part of railway transportation." "I In other Words if a
service is involved which the railroad could perform as a
part of its transportation service, it is within the present
Acts. It then makes no difference that it is performed
by a carrier affiliate rather than by the carrier itself. We
think it plain that the definitions in question include at
the very least those activities which would be transportation services when performed by a railroad but which it
chooses to have performed by its affiliate.
We do not decide whether services other than loading
and unloading which are performed by Duquesne are in
the same category nor whether the "employer" definitions
1
See note 10, 8upra.
2 See note 9, supra.

CHATWIN v. UNITED STATES.

455

Syllabu.

446

may be given a broader scope. It is sufficient for the disposition of these cases that the loading and unloading
services performed by Duquesne are services performed
"in connection with the transportation of . . . property
by railroad."
The judgment in No. 95 is reversed.

The judgment in

No. 103 is affirmed.
It is so ordered.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
CHATWIN v. UNITED STATES.
NO. 31.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE TENTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued October 10, 1945.-Decided January 2, 1946.
1. In a prosecution for violation of the Federal Kidnaping Act, the
stipulated facts as to the circumstances in which a 15-year-old girl
undertook and continued a "celestial" marriage relationship with a
cultist, failed to establish that she had been "held" within the meaning of the words "held for ransom or reward or otherwise" as used
in the Act, and therefore convictions of the petitioners under the
Act can not be sustained. P. 459.
(a) For aught that appears from the stipulated facts, the alleged
victim was free to leave the petitioners when and if she desired;
therefore there was no proof of unlawful restraint. P. 460.
(b) There was no proof that any of the petitioners willfully
intended, by force, fear, or deception, to hold the alleged victim
against her will. Petitioners' beliefs are not shown to involve unlawful restraint of celestial wives. P. 460.
(c) There was no competent or substantial proof that the girl
was of such an age or mentality as necessarily precluded her from
understanding the doctrine of celestial marriage and from exercising
her own free will; therefore the consent of the parents or guardian
is not a factor in the case. P. 461.
*Together with No. 32, Zitting v. United States, and No. 33, ChristenSen v. United States, also on certiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Tenth-Circuit.

