630

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
326 U.S.

Syllabus.

trolling precedent on the local law question on which the
decision below turned. On such questions we pay great
deference to the views of the judges of those courts "who
are familiar with the intricacies and trends of local law
and practice." Huddleston v. Dwyer, 322 U. S. 232, 237.
We are unable to say that the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in applying to this case the
rule of Duke Power Co. v. State Board, which involved
closely analogous facts.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON
no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

took

ALLEN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v.
TRUST COMPANY OF GEORGIA

ET

AL., EXECU-

TORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 289. Argued January 3, 4, 1946.-Decided January 28, 1946.
In 1925, decedent established two spendthrift trusts for his children,
transferring securities to each trust and reserving the power to
amend with the consent of the trustee and beneficiary. In 1934 he
added securities to each trust. He paid gift taxes on these transfers.
Learning in 1937 that, under a recent decision of this Court, the
reservation of the power to amend brought the corpus of the trust
into the settlor's estate for estate tax purposes, he renounced the
power to amend. He died in 1938 at the age of 82. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue included the corpus of each trust in
his estate and collected the estate tax on it. The executors sued
for a refund. Both the district court and the circuit court of
appeals found that decedent established the trusts to meet the
necessities of his children by giving them property freed of all
claims, tax or otherwise, and that he renounced the power to amend

ALLEN v. TRUST CO.
630

Opinion of the Court.

in order to accomplish the purpose which he originally had but
which he later discovered had not been achieved. Held:
1. Those findings are sufficient to overcome the statutory presumption that the renouncement of the power to amend, being
made within two years of decedent's death, was made in contemplation of death within the meaning of § 302 (d) of the Revenue
Act of 1926. P. 635.
2. The question whether a donor's dominant motive is associated
with life, rather than with the distribution of property in contemplation of death, is a question of fact in each case. P. 636.
3. Where the question arises out of a series of transactions all
related to the same purpose, it is not proper to isolate one transaction from all the others and treat it as a wholly independent
transaction. P. 636.
4. Where the dominant purpose of a series of transactions is to
provide for the donor's children, the fact that the purpose of the
last transaction is to rectify an error which would have subjected the
corpus of the trust to an estate tax does not lead to the conclusion
that it was a transaction in contemplation of death within the
meaning of § 302 (d) of the Revenue Act of 1926. P. 636.
149 F. 2d 120, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 700, to review affirmance of a judgment, 55 F. Supp. 269, against a Collector of Internal
Revenue for a refund of an overpayment of an estate
tax.

Mr. 1. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark,
Jr., Messrs. Sewall Key and CarltonFox were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. John A. Sibley, with whom Mr. Furman Smith
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTicE DOUGLAs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The decedent, Jack J. Spalding, died December 8, 1938,
at the age of 82. In 1925 he established two spendthrift

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U.S.

trusts--one for his daughter Suzanne and one for his son
Jack-and transferred to each trust securities of the value
of $50,000. In 1934 he added securities to each trust. He
paid gift taxes on these transfers. When he died, the
Commissioner included the corpus of each trust in his
estate and collected the estate tax on it. The executors brought this suit for a refund. The District Court
found that the trusts were established under the following
circumstances.
Suzanne and her husband, before 1925, had engaged in
a business venture which had ended in disaster. Both had
lost all their property and were heavily indebted. Suzanne's husband was without means to support her and
their five children. Jack likewise had engaged in an unsuccessful business venture. He was not earning enough
to support his family. The gifts were made by the decedent to relieve the needs and to make secure the maintenance of his children and the education and support of his
grandchildren. The gifts were placed in trust because
Suzanne and Jack had lost prior gifts in unsuccessful projects. The decedent desired to protect them against their
own business misadventures and not to retain any benefit,
directly or indirectly, to himself. He made the gifts to
meet their necessities and desired to set aside the trust
property, freed from all claims, tax or otherwise. The
decedent, however, retained under the trusts a power to
amend with the consent of the trustee and beneficiary.1
At the time the trusts were established in 1925 and enlarged
in 1934 he believed that the gifts were complete and absolute and intended them to be such. He was a lawyer and
believed that under the federal law the reservation of such
a power to amend would not require the inclusion in his
gross estate at his death of the value of the corpus of each
"During my life, by the unanimous consent of the said trustee, my
said daughter [son] and of myself, the terms of this agreement may
be amended, changed, enlarged or limited, but in no event shall the
conveyance of said stock to the party of the second part be revoked."

ALLEN v. TRUST CO.
630

633

Opinion of the Court.

trust. But in 1935 Helvering v. City Bank Farmers Trust
Co., 296 U. S. 85, was decided, holding that the reservation of a power to amend brought the corpus of the trust
into the settlor's estate, even though the power could not
be exercised by the settlor alone. Upon being advised in
1937 that the gifts remained a part of his estate for estate
tax purposes, decedent executed an instrument renouncing
the power to amend the trusts. This was done so that the
trusts would not be a part of his estate for estate tax purposes. At that time, as well as in 1925 and 1934, the decedent was in average good health for a man of his age.
He released the power to amend so as to put the trusts
in the condition he had thought they were in when he
made them. The release was designed to carry out his
original purpose in setting aside the property freed from
all claims, tax or otherwise. In 1925, 1934, and 1937, he
did not entertain thoughts of death except the general
expectation of death that all entertain.
The District Court concluded that neither the establishment or the enlargement of the trusts, nor the release
of the power to amend was made in contemplation of
death. Accordingly, it rendered judgment for respondents. 55 F. Supp. 269. The Circuit Court of Appeals
sustained the findings of the District Court and affirmed
the judgment. 149 F. 2d 120. The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which we granted because of
an apparent conflict between that decision and cases from
other circuits.'
It is clear that the corpus of each trust was properly
included in decedent's gross estate if he released the power
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v. Bowers, 68 F. 2d 916; Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co. v. Bowers, 98 F. 2d 794; First Trust & Deposit
Co. v. Shaughnessy, 134 F. 2d 940; Commonwealth Trust Co. v.
Driscoll, 50 F. Supp. 949, aff'd 137 F. 2d 653. And see Pavenstedt,
Taxation of Transfers in Contemplation of Death, 54 Yale L. Journ.
70; Harriss, Gift Taxation in the United States (1940) ch. II.
2 Cf.

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

to amend in contemplation of his death., And there is a
presumption that he did so because the release was made
less than two years before his death.,
I Sec. 302 (d) (1) of the Revenue Act of 1926, 44 Stat. 9, as amended
by § 401 of the Revenue Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 680, reads as follows:
"The value of the gross estate of the decedent shall be determined
by including the value at the time of his death of all property, real or
personal, tangible or intangible, wherever situated"(d) (1) To the extent of any interest therein of which the decedent has at any time made a transfer, by trust or otherwise, where
the enjoyment thereof was subject at the date of his death to any
change through the exercise of a power, either by the decedent alone
or in conjunction with any person, to alter, amend, or revoke, or
where the decedent relinquished any such power in contemplation of
his death, except in case of a bona fide sale for an adequate and full
consideration in money or money's worth."
Article 16 of Treasury Regulations 80 (1937 ed.) as amended by T. D.
4966, 1940-1 Cum. Bull. 220, provides in part:
"The phrase 'contemplation of death,' as used in the statute, does
not mean, on the one hand, that general expectation of death such as
all persons entertain, nor, on the other, is its meaning restricted to
an apprehension that death is imminent or near. A transfer in contemplation of death is a disposition of property prompted by the
thought of death (though it need not be solely so prompted). A
transfer is prompted by the thought of death if it is made with the
purpose of avoiding the tax, or as a substitute for a testamentary
disposition of the property, or for any other motive associated with
death. The bodily and mental condition of the decedent and all other
attendant facts and circumstances are to be scrutinized to determine
whether or not such thought prompted the disposition."
4Sec. 302 (d) (3) provides:
"The relinquishment of any such power, not admitted or shown to
have been in contemplation of the decedent's death, made within two
years prior to his death without such a consideration and affecting
the interest or interests (whether arising from one or more transfers
or the creation of one or more trusts) of any one beneficiary of a
value or aggregate value, at the time of such death, in excess of $5,000,
then, to the extent of such excess, such relinquishment or relinquishments shall, unless shown to the contrary, be deemed to have been
made in contemplation of death Within the meaning of this title."

ALLEN v. TRUST CO.
630

Opinion of the Court.

It was said in United States v. Wells, 283 U. S. 102, 117,
that a gift is made in contemplation of death within the
meaning of the estate tax law if "the motive which induces" it is "of the sort which leads to testamentary disposition." Petitioner's argument is that a purpose to
avoid the estate tax is such a motive. It is a motive
which would cause a decedent to make an inter vivos
transfer rather than a will. Since the purpose of the contemplation of death provision was to reach substitutes
for testamentary dispositions in order to prevent evasions
of the tax (United States v. Wells, supra, pp. 116-117),
the statute is satisfied, it is said, where for any reason the
decedent becomes concerned about what will happen to
his property at his death and as a result takes action to
control or in some manner affect its devolution.
That is a correct statement of the governing principle
for it presumes the existence of the requisite motive. The
transfer is made in contemplation of death if the thought
of death is the "impelling cause of the transfer." City
Bank Farmers Trust Co. v. McGowan, 323 U. S. 594, 599.
The transfer may be so motivated, even though the decedent had no idea that he was about to die. United States
v. Wells, supra, pp. 117-118. On the other hand, every
man making a gift knows that what he gives away today
will not be included in his estate when he dies. All such
gifts plainly are not made in contemplation of death in
the statutory sense. Many gifts, even to those who are
the natural and appropriate objects of the donor's bounty,
are motivated by "purposes associated with life, rather
than with the distribution of property in anticipation of
death." United States v. Wells, supra, p. 118. Those
motives cover a wide range. See 1 Paul, Federal Estate
& Gift Taxation (1942) §§ 6.09 et seq. "There may be
the desire to recognize special needs or exigencies or to
discharge moral obligations. The gratification of such desires may be a more compelling motive than any thought

636

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

of death." United Statesv. Wells, supra, p. 119. Whether
such a desire was the dominant, controlling or impelling
motive is a question of fact in each case. We do not have
here the type of problem presented in McCaughn v. Real
Estate Land Co., 297 U. S. 606, where the appellate court
undertook to reverse the trial court on a review of the
evidence. Here two courts have resolved that question
of fact in favor of respondents. They have found, as we
have said, that Mr. Spalding established the trusts to meet
the necessities of his children by giving them property,
freed of all claims, tax or otherwise; and that in 1937 he
released the power to amend to accomplish the purpose
which he originally had, but which he later discovered had
not been achieved. Those findings are sufficient to overcome the statutory presumption that the gifts, being made
within two years of Mr. Spalding's death, were made in
contemplation of death. Those findings, being concurrent
findings of the two lower courts, will be accepted here without reexamination of the evidence. See United States v.
O'Donnell, 303 U. S.501, 508, and cases cited.
It is said, however, that those findings rest on a misconception of the law, since admittedly the decedent in 1937
released the power to amend so as to avoid paying an
estate tax on the property included under the trusts. But
that is to isolate the release from all that preceded and to
treat it as a wholly independent transaction. This is not
a case where a settlor, having made one plan for the disposition of his property, later makes a different one to
avoid death taxes. Mr. Spalding, in making the release,
did what he originally intended to do-to make complete
and absolute gifts to his children, freed of all claims, including taxes. Retention of the power to amend would
have brought the trust property into Mr. Spalding's
estate and subjected it to the estate tax lien His purpose
5

See Int. Rev. Code § 827, 53 Stat. 128, 26 U. S. C. § 827. It was
held in Higley v. Commissioner, 69 F. 2d 160, that the personal liability of transferees did not extend to the beneficiaries under a trust.

ALLEN v. TRUST CO.
630

Opinion of the Court.

to take care of his children, come what may, might thus
have been thwarted or impaired. He guessed wrong on
the law, when he retained the power to amend. When he
rectified the error, he was in good faith, endeavoring to
complete his original project, not to give his children
more than he at first intended in order to save taxes.
What he did in 1937 was merely to accomplish by an
additional step what he assumed he had already done.
The findings make plain that the establishment of the
trusts in 1925, their enlargement in 1934, and the release
of the power to amend in 1937 were parts of one integrated transaction. That is a finding of fact which we are
not at liberty to disturb on this record. On these facts, his
desire to avoid death taxes does no more than establish
that he did not want his plan to underwrite the necessities
of his children and grandchildren jeopardized. His desire
to make adequate provision for them remained the dominant motive, or so the triers of fact could properly find.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

