BOLLENBACH v. UNITED STATES.
599

Syllabus.

In our view, the "net profit" payments in these cases
flow directly from the taxpayers' economic interest in the
oil and partake of the quality of rent rather than of a sale

price. Therefore, the capital investment of the lessors is
reduced by the extraction of the oil and the lessors should
have depletion.
No. 56 is reversed.
No. 197 is affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE DOUoLAS dissents.
BOLLENBACH v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 41.

Argued October 12, 15, 1945.-Decided January 28, 1946.

1. In a prosecution for conspiracy to commit an offense under the
National Stolen Property Act, an instruction to the jury that the
possession of property shortly after it had been stolen in another
State created a presumption that the possessor had transported
the property in interstate commerce constituted reversible error.
Pp. 609, 611, 613.
2. The manifest misdirection in the circumstances of this case can
not be treated as a "technical error" not affecting the defendant's
substantial rights. P. 614.
3. Under the Criminal Code, one who aids or abets the commission
of a federal offense is punishable as a principal; the offense of an
accessory after the fact is distinct and differently punishable.
P. 611.
4. A conviction ought not to rest on an equivocal direction to the
jury on a basic issue. P. 613.
5. Upon review of a conviction in the federal courts, the question is
not whether guilt may be spelt out of the record, but whether guilt
has been found by the jury according to the procedure and standards appropriate for criminal trials in the federal courts. P. 614.

608

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

6. In view of the important place of trial by jury in the Bill of Rights,
Congress will not be deemed to have intended to substitute the
belief of appellate judges in the guilt of an accused, however justifiably engendered by the record, for ascertainment of guilt by a
jury under appropriate judicial guidance, however cumbersome
that process may be. P. 615.
147 F. 2d 199, reversed.
CERTIoRAiI, 324 U. S. 837, to review the affirmance of a
conviction of conspiracy to commit an offense under the
National Stolen Property Act.

Mr. Bernard Hershkopf, with whom Mr. Henry G.
Singer was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. W. Marvin Smith, with whom Acting SolicitorGeneral Judson and Mr. Leon Ulman were on the brief, for the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The petitioner was convicted of conspiring to violate
the National Stolen Property Act. The Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit sustained the conviction.
147 F. 2d 199. We brought the case here, 324 U. S. 837,
because it was submitted to the jury in a way that raised
an important question in the administration of federal
criminal justice.
The relevant facts upon which decision must turn are
these. Bollenbach, the petitioner, and others were indicted upon two counts: for transporting securities in
interstate commerce knowing them to have been stolen
(48 Stat. 794, 18 U. S. C. § 415; 35 Stat. 1152, 18 U. S. C.
§ 550) and for conspiring to commit that offense (35 Stat.
1096, 18 U. S. C. § 88). Having been granted a severance,
Bollenbach was tried separately. No doubt the securities
had been stolen in Minneapolis and were transported to
New York. And it is not controverted that Bollenbach
helped to dispose of them in New York.

BOLLENBACH v. UNITED STATES.
807

Opinion of the Court.

The question is whether he was properly convicted
under the indictment. The trial lasted seven days. After
the jury had been out seven hours they returned to the
court to report that they were "hopelessly deadlocked."
Interchanges then ensued between court and jury and
between court and counsel. One of the jurors asked "Can
any act of conspiracy be performed after the crime is committed?" The trial judge made some unresponsive comments but failed to answer the question. No exception
was noted immediately. In a few minutes the jury left,
but after twenty minutes again returned for further instructions. Bollenbach's counsel then indicated that
the court had left the bench too hurriedly to enable him
to except to the judge's failure to answer the question.
After an exception was then taken and allowed, the judge
"mistakenly replied," as the lower court noted, "that he
had already told them that there could be no conspiracy
after the object of the conspiracy had been attained."
After indulging in further colloquy with counsel, not here
pertinent, the judge stated that he had this note of inquiry
from the jury: "If the defendant were aware that the bonds
which he aided in disposing of were stolen does that knowledge make him guilty on the second count." In answer the
judge instructed the jury as follows: "Of course if it occurred afterwards it would not make him guilty, but in
that connection I say to you that if the possession was
shortly after the bonds were stolen, after the theft, it is
sufficient to justify the conclusion by you jurors of knowledge by the possessor that the property was stolen. And,
just a moment-I further charge you that possession of
stolen property in another State than that in which it was
stolen shortly after the theft raises a presumption that the
possessor was the thief and transported stolen property
in interstate commerce, but that such presumption is subject to explanation and must be considered with all the
testimony in the case." Counsel for the accused excepted
to this charge, but the judge cut short an attempted re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

quest by counsel with the remark, "You may except to the
charge, but I will not take any requests." The jury filed
out and returned five minutes later with a verdict of guilty
on the second-the conspiracy-count. A sentence of two
years and a fine of $10,000 were imposed. The Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed the judgment and ordered a new
trial. It found error in the charge just quoted. "Certainly it is untenable to say," was the crux of its holding,
"that the possession of stolen goods raises any presumption
that they have in fact been transported in interstate commerce." 147 F. 2d 199, 202. And it held that it could not
disregard the error because of the questionable evidence as
to whether the accused knew that the bonds had come from
another State. But on rehearing the court's attention was
called to the fact that, after his arrest, the accused admitted
that he knew that the bonds had come from the West and
that he may have had that knowledge before he disposed
of them. On further consideration of the bearing of this
evidence upon the defendant's knowledge of the place of
the theft, the Circuit Court of Appeals changed its view
and held that "it would be altogether unwarranted to reverse the judgment because of the mistake in the charge."
147 F. 2d at 202.
That court evidently felt free to disregard "the mistake in the charge" only on its assumption that Bollenbach could be convicted under this indictment as an
accessory after the fact. But Bollenbach was neither
charged nor tried nor convicted as an accessory after the
fact. The Government did not invoke that theory in the
two lower courts and disavows it here. And rightly so.
The receipt of stolen securities after their transportation
across State lines was not a federal crime at the time of the
transactions in question, and we need not consider the
scope of a later amendment making it so. See Act of
August 3, 1939, 53 Stat. 1178, 18 U. S. C. § 416; H. R.
Rep. 422, 76th Cong., 1st Sess. (1939); and S. Rep. 674,

BOLLENBACH v. UNITED STATES.
607

Opinion of the Court.

76th Cong., 1st Sess. (1939). Bollenbach could not properly be convicted for the offense for which he was charged
and for which he was convicted, namely, for having conspired to transport securities across State lines merely
on proof that he was a "fence," i. e., helped to dispose of
the stolen securities after the interstate transportation
was concluded. While §332 of the Criminal Code, supra,
made aiders and abettors of an offense principals, Congress has not made accessories after the fact principals.
Their offense is distinct and is differently punished.

(§ 333 of the Criminal Code, 35 Stat. 1152, 18 U. S. C.
§ 551.)
We are therefore thrown back upon an appraisal of what
the Circuit Court of Appeals deemed a mistaken charge
in the proper setting of this case.
The Government does not defend the "presumption"
as a fair summary of experience. It offends reason, so the
Government admits, as much as did the presumption
which was found unsupportable in Tot v. United States,
319 U. S. 463, even though that was embodied in an Act
of Congress. Instead, the Government in effect asks us
to pay no attention to this palpably erroneous answer by
the judge to the jury's inquiry as to guilt on the charge of
conspiracy to transport stolen securities "If the defendant
were aware that the bonds which he aided in disposing of
were stolen." We can pay no attention to this misdirection only by assuming that the jury paid no attention to
it and that the case is before us as though no misdirection
had been given. To do so is to disregard the significance
of the course of events, as revealed by the record, after
the case went to the jury.
The Government suggests that the judge's misconceived
"presumption" was "just what it appears to be-a quite
cursory, last minute, instruction on the question of the
necessity of knowledge as to the stolen character of the
notes-and nothing more." But precisely because it was a

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

"last minute instruction" the duty of special care was indicated in replying to a written request for further light
on a vital issue by a jury whose foreman reported that
they were "hopelessly deadlocked" after they had been
out seven hours. "In a trial by jury in a federal court, the
judge is not a mere moderator, but is the governor of the
trial for the purpose of assuring its proper conduct and of
determining questions of law." Querciav. United States,
289 U. S. 466, 469. "The influence of the trial judge on
the jury is necessarily and properly of great weight," Starr
v. United States, 153 U. S. 614, 626, and jurors are ever
watchful of the words that fall from him. Particularly in
a criminal trial, the judge's last word is apt to be the decisive word. If it is a specific ruling on a vital issue and
misleading, the error is not cured by a prior unexceptionable and unilluminating abstract charge.
An experienced trial judge should have realized that
such a long wrangle in the jury room as occurred in this
case would leave the jury in a state of frayed nerves and
fatigued attention, with the desire to go home and escape
overnight detention, particularly in view of a plain hint
from the judge that a verdict ought to be forthcoming.
The jury was obviously in doubt as to Bollenbach's participation in the theft of the securities in Minneapolis and
their transportation to New York. The jury's questions,
and particularly the last written inquiry in reply to which
the untenable "presumption" was given, clearly indicated
that the jurors were confused concerning the relation of
knowingly disposing of stolen securities after their interstate journey had ended to the charge of conspiring to
transport such securities. Discharge of the jury's responsibility for drawing appropriate conclusions from the
testimony depended on discharge of the judge's responsibility to give the jury the required guidance by a lucid
statement of the relevant legal criteria. When a jury
makes explicit its difficulties a trial judge should clear them

BOLLENBACH v. UNITED STATES.
607

Opinion of the Court.

away with concrete accuracy. In any event, therefore,
the trial judge had no business to be "quite cursory" in the
circumstances in which the jury here asked for supplemental instruction. But he was not even "cursorily"
accurate. He was simply wrong.
The Circuit Court of Appeals read the judge's charge
to mean that the jury was permitted to find Bollenbach
"guilty of a conspiracy to transport stolen notes if he
joined in their disposal after the transportation had
ended." We so read it. That court, as we have seen,
properly rejected the propriety of leaving the case to the
jury as the trial judge had left it, but sustained the conviction on its own accessory-after-the-fact theory. Compelled to repudiate this theory, the Government now seeks
to sustain the conviction on the afterthought that the
charge did not mean what it said, and that, while the jury
asked one question, the trial judge replied to another.
Here then are three different and conflicting theories regarding a charge designed to guide the jury in determining guilt, and yet we are asked to sustain the conviction
on the assumption that the jury was properly guided.
The Government contends that the court below failed to
appreciate several factors in regard to the criticized
charge. What reason is there for assuming that the jury
did not also fail to appreciate these factors which the
Government, in an elaborate argument, explains as requisite for a proper understanding of that which at best was
dubiously expressed? A conviction ought not to rest on
an equivocal direction to the jury on a basic issue. And
a charge deemed erroneous by three circuit judges of long
experience and who have a sturdy view of criminal justice
is certainly not better than equivocal. The Government's
suggestion really implies that, although it is the judge's
special business to guide the jury by appropriate legal
criteria through the maze of facts before it, we can say
that the lay jury will know enough to disregard the judge's

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

bad law if in fact he misguides them. To do so would
transfer to the jury the judge's function in giving the law
and transfer to the appellate court the jury's function of
measuring the evidence by appropriate legal yardsticks.
The Government argues that the sting of error is extracted because there was proof, other than the erroneous
"presumption," on the issue of Bollenbach's participation in the wrongdoing before the transportation of the
stolen securities had ended. This is to disregard the vital
fact that for seven hours the jury was unable to find guilt
in the light of the main charge, but reached a verdict of
guilty under the conspiracy count five minutes after their
inquiry was answered by an untenable legal proposition.
It would indeed be a long jump at guessing to be confident
that the jury did not rely on the erroneous "presumption"
given them as a guide. A charge should not be misleading.
See Agnew v. United States, 165 U. S. 36, 52. Legal presumptions involve subtle conceptions to which not even
judges always bring clear understanding. See Thayer,
PreliminaryTreatise on Evidence (1898) Chaps. 8 and 9;
Wigmore, Evidence (3d ed., 1940) §§ 2490-2540; Morgan,
Some Observations Concerning Presumptions (1931) 44
Harv. L. Rev. 906; Denning, Presumptions and Burdens
(1945) 61 L. Q. Rev. 379. In view of the Government's
insistence that there is abundant evidence to indicate
that Bollenbach was implicated in the criminal enterprise from the beginning, it may not be amiss to remind
that the question is not whether guilt may be spelt out of
a record, but whether guilt has been found by a jury according to the procedure and standards appropriate for
criminal trials in the federal courts.
Accordingly, we cannot treat the manifest misdirection
in the circumstances of this case as one of those "technical
errors" which "do not affect the substantial rights of the
parties" and must therefore be disregarded. 40 Stat. 1181,
28 U. S. C. § 391. All law is technical if viewed solely from
concern for punishing crime without heeding the mode by

BOLLENBACH v. UNITED STATES.
607

BLACK, J., dissenting.

which it is accomplished. The "technical errors" against
which Congress protected jury verdicts are of the kind
which led some judges to trivialize law by giving all legal
prescriptions equal potency. See Taft, Administration of
CriminalLaw (1905) 15 Yale L. J. 1, 15. Deviations from
formal correctness do not touch the substance of the standards by which guilt is determined in our courts, and it is
these that Congress rendered harmless. Bruno v. United
States, 308 U. S. 287, 293-94; Weiler v. UnitedStates, 323
U. S. 606, 611. From presuming too often all errors to be
"prejudicial," the judicial pendulum need not swing to presuming all errors to be "harmless" if only the appellate
court is left without doubt that one who claims its corrective process is, after all, guilty. In view of the place
of importance that trial by jury has in our Bill of Rights,
it is not to be supposed that Congress intended to substitute the belief of appellate judges in the guilt of an accused, however justifiably engendered by the dead record,
for ascertainment of guilt by a jury under appropriate
judicial guidance, however cumbersome that process may
be.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JusTIcE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting.
Tot v. United States, 319 U. S. 463, held that the mere
possession of a pistol coupled with conviction for a prior
1Compare the applications by the English courts of a similar provision in the Criminal Appeal Act, 1907: Maxwell v. Director of Public
Prosecutions, [1935] A. C. 309; Rex v. Leckey, [1944] 1 K. B. 80;
Rex v. Slender, 26 Crim. App. Rep. 155 (1938); Rex v. Redd, [1923]
1 K. B. 104; Rex v. Watson, [1916] 2 K. B. 385; Rex v. Ahlers, [1915]
1 K. B. 616; Rex v. Thompson, [1914] 2 K. B. 99; Rex v. Edwards,
[1913] 1 K. B. 287; Rex v. Rodley, [1913] 3 K. B. 468; Rex v. Ellis,
[1910] 2 K. B. 746; Rex v. Dyson, [1908] 2 K. B. 454; cf. Bray v.

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

crime was not evidence proving that the pistol had been
shipped or transported in interstate commerce. I agree
with the government's contention that the trial court's
charge in this case does not conflict with the Tot holding.
For the trial court did not charge the jury that interstate
transportation of the stolen securities could be inferred
from their mere possession in New York. In fact, the
undisputed evidence showed that the securities, stolen in
Minnesota, turned up in the petitioner's possession in
New York very shortly after the theft. No evidence was
offered to explain this possession of the stolen goods.
Under these circumstances the trial judge rightly charged
the jury that the unexplained possession of stolen property shortly after the theft was sufficient to justify a finding that the petitioner not only knew that the bonds were
stolen but that he was the thief. Such seems to have been
the established rule of law since time immemorial.'
Never until today has this Court cast any doubt on the
existence or soundness of the rule. In fact it has recognized or expressly approved it as proper in cases involving
larceny, Dunlop v. United States, 165 U. S. 486, 502; burglary, McNamarav. Henkel, 226 U. S. 520, 524-525; arson,
Wilson v. United States, 162 U. S. 613, 617, 619, 620; and
even murder, ibid. And in the Wilson case, supra, this
Court approved a charge by the,trial court using substantially the same language as to "presumption," which the
trial court here used.2
There is no reason which I can
Ford, [1896] A. C. 44. And see Makin v. Attorney General, [1894]
A. C. 57, construing a similar provision in the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1883.
2 See the cases collected in notes on Hunt v. Commonwealth, 70 Am.
Dec. 443, 447-452; State v. Drew, 101 Am. St. Rep. 474, 481-524.
2

The court's charge here condemned was that unexplained possession "raised a presumption." It may be, although I am not sure,
that the condemnation rests on the use of the word "presumption"
instead of "inference." And it is true that fine-spun refinements have
been invented in efforts to distinguish "presumptions" from "infer-

BOLLENBACH v. UNITED STATES.
607

BLACK, J., dissenting.

conceive, and the Court offers none, why the sensible and
long-established rule should be appropriate in all kinds
of cases except the one before us. Certainly evidence of
the theft of the bonds and their transport in interstate
commerce with knowledge of the theft, was relevant on
both counts of the indictment, the first charging the theft
and transportation, and the second charging conspiracy
to commit the crime. And these relevant facts were capable of proof by circumstantial evidence to the same extent
as to each count. The "unexplained possession" rule is in
substance a circumstantial evidence rule. The experience
of ages has justly given this particular type of circumstantial evidence a high value. In my opinion the trial
court's charge insofar as it stated that unexplained possession of the stolen bonds raised a "presumption" that
ences," cf. New York Life Ins. Co. v. Gamer, 303 U. S. 161, 175-177.
But I am sure that this jury was not familiar with the dialectics which
sought without success to deliver these metaphysical distinctions
from foetal darkness. And the notes already cited, as well as many
cases, have shown that no such practical distinction exists. See e. g.
United States v. Di Carlo, 64 F. 2d 15, 17; United States v. Seeman,
115 F. 2d 371, 374. That the trial judge treated a "presumption"
as an inference, just as any juror would, is shown by an earlier part
of his charge as follows: "It is the law that the unexplained possession of stolen property shortly after the theft is sufficient to justify
the conclusion by a jury of knowledge by the possessor that the property was stolen." And it is interesting to note that this Court said in
the Wilson case, supra, at 619-620, that "In Rickman's case, 2 East
P. C. 1035, cited, it was held that on an indictment for arson, proof
that property was in the house at the time it was burned, and was
soon afterwards found in the possession of the prisoner, raises a probable presumption that he was present and concerned in the offence;
and in Rex v. Digglee, (Wills Cir. Ev. *53,) that there is a like presumption in the case of murder accompanied by robbery. Proof that
defendant had in his possession, soon after, articles apparently taken
from the deceased at the time of his death is always admissible, and
the fact, with its legitimate inference, is to be considered by the jury
along with the other facts in the case in arriving at their verdict."
(Italics supplied.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

petitioner was the thief, was a correct statement of law
under our former decisions. The Court's opinion does not
explicitly repudiate this part of the trial judge's instruction but it seems to me that such repudiation is implicit
in the Court's reasoning.
There is some indication in the Court's opinion that it
thought the entire answer to the jury's question erroneous
because it was misleading. The only reason, I can imagine,
why the Court's answer, stating this well-established rule,
could be thought misleading, is that the answer was in response to a question on the conspiracy count. Thus the
Court may be saying that the jury might have believed
from the trial court's instructions that unexplained possession is not only proof that petitioner was the thief but
also is in and of itself proof that he was a conspirator. In
view of the fact that the judge previously fully instructed
the jury on conspiracy, I do not think it either possible or
probable that the jury was misled in the way indicated.
But my objection is chiefly to the Court's repudiation,
either partial, or complete, of a rule which permits courts
and juries to draw perfectly justifiable inferences from
proven facts.
Nor do I think the trial judge was wrong in instructing
the jury that the unexplained possession in New York of
the securities recently stolen in Minnesota justified an inference that the petitioner had transported them in interstate commerce. If this possession in New York justified
an inference that he had stolen the securities in Minnesota,
I fail to see why it does not also justify the inference that
he carried them to New York. Can it be said that there
is a presumption that he stole them in Minnesota and then
passed out of the picture while the stolen goods were carried
to New York, and that the jury was compelled to attribute
his possession in New York to something as indefinite as
an "Act of God or the public enemy"? The very presumption of theft has to carry with it the presumption of transportation. Thieves do not remain at the scene of their

BOLLENBACH v. UNITED STATES.
607

BLACK, J., dissenting.

crime. The classical definition of larceny contains the
phrase "a felonious taking and carrying away."
The Bill of Rights is improperly invoked to support the
Court's holding in this case. It contemplates that a defendant shall have a fair trial, but it does not command
that juries shall be denied the right to draw the kind of inferences from admitted facts that all people of reasonable
understanding would draw. I assume that if these bonds
had been stolen in Minneapolis, Minnesota, at 6 A. M.,
and this petitioner had turned up with them just outside
the New York airport at 12 o'clock noon of the same day,
a reasonable person could not only infer that he had stolen
them, but also that he had transported them. The only
difference between drawing an inference of transportation
in that case and the one before us is that the inference of
transportation here might not be quite so overpowering.
But it is none the less a reasonable one.
The trial judge's oral charge to the jury was clear, fair,
correct, and unchallenged. I disagree with the Court's
censure of his additional instructions.' The jury's verdict,
given after a fair trial, was supported, if not compelled, by
the evidence. It is, in my judgment, a disservice to the
administration of criminal law to reverse this case.
I This Court reads the trial judge's charge to mean that Bollenbach
was "guilty of a conspiracy to transport stolen notes if he joined in their
disposal after the transportationhad ended." The trial judge actually
charged the jury thus: "If the participation of this defendant in this
was subsequent, that is, that he did not know that they were transported, that is, if he did not transport them or cause them to be transported himself, of course there would be no offense. That is, if the

bonds arrived in New York and he had nothing to do with transporting
or causing them to be transported there would be no offense." Later
the jury asked the judge-this question: "If the defendant were aware

that the bonds which he aided in disposing of were stolen does that
knowledge make him guilty on the second count?" The judge's reply

so far as relevant to this particular question was: "Of course if it
occurred afterwards it would not make him guilty . . ." Not one
word and not one intimation have I been able to discover in the instruction to the jury to the effect that Bollenbach could be convicted
if he had done no more than join in disposal of the bonds after their
transportation had ended.

