BETTER BUSINESS BUREAU v. U. S.
271

279

Syllabus.

trial in a state court which the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment requires. This, of course, does
not mean that uncontradicted evidence of a witness must
be accepted as true on the hearing. Credibility is for the
trier of facts. The evidenceinay show that the charge was
served upon petitioner well in advance of the trial (see
note 5, supra) and that he had ample opportunity to consult with counsel and secure any needed witnesses. He
may have intelligently waived his constitutional rights.
Adams v. U. S. ex rel. McCann, 317 U. S. 269, 275.
Petitioner carries the burden in a collateral attack on
a judgment.' He must prove his allegations but he is
entitled to an opportunity.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
BETTER BUSINESS BUREAU OF WASHINGTON,
D. C., INC. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 52. Argued October 19, 1945.-Decided November 13, 1945.
1. A Better Business Bureau, an important if not the primary object
of which is to promote not only an ethical but also a profitable
business community, held not exempt from social security taxes as
a corporation "organized and operated exclusively for scientific
or educational purposes," within the meaning of § 811 (b) (8) of
the Social Security Act. P. 282.
This conclusion is supported by the legislative history of § 811
(b) (8) of the Social Security Act and by applicable administrative
regulations.
2. Liberal construction of a statute does not mean that words and
phrases may be given unusual or tortured meanings unjustified by
7Johnson v. Zerbat, 304 U. S. 458, 468; Walker v. Johnston, 312
U. S. 275, 286; Williams v. Kaiser, 323 U. S. 471, 474.

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

legislative intent, or that express limitations on exemptions may
be ignored. P. 283.
79 U. S.App. D. C. 380, 148 F. 2d 14, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 325 U. S.844, to review a judgment which
affirmed a summary judgment for the United States in a
suit for a refund of social security taxes.
Mr. R. B. H. Lyon, with whom Mr. Simon Lyon was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Joseph S. Platt, with whom Solicitor General McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Clark, Messrs. Sewall
Key, J. Louis Monarch, Ralph F. Fuchsand JohnCostelloe
were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MUaPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.

Here our consideration is directed to the question of
whether the petitioner, the Better Business Bureau of
Washington, D. C., Inc., is exempt from social security
taxes as a corporation organized and operated exclusively
for scientific or educational purposes within the meaning
of Section 811 (b) (8) of the Social Security Act.'
From the stipulated statement of facts it appears that
petitioner was organized in 1920 as a non-profit corpora' 49 Stat. 620, 639, 42 U. S. C. § 1011 (b) : "The term 'employment'
means any service, of whatever nature, performed within the United
States by an employee for his employer, except-"(8) Service performed in the employ of a corporation, community
chest, fund, or foundation, organized and operated exclusively for
religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or
for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals, no part of the
net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder
or individual."
An amendment to this definition, not here relevant, was added in
1939. The entire definition has been incorporated into § 1426 (b) (8)
of the Internal Revenue Code.

BETTER BUSINESS BUREAU v. U. S.
279

281

Opinion of the Court.

tion under the laws of the District of Columbia. It has
no shares of stock and no part of its earnings inures to

the benefit of any private shareholder or individual. Its
officers are elected annually from its membership; they
have merely nominal duties and are paid no salary. Only
the managing director and a small number of employees
are paid. Membership is open to "any person, firm, corporation or association interested in better business ethics"
as may be elected by the board of.trustees and pay "voluntary subscriptions" or dues.
The charter of petitioner states that "the object for
which it is formed is for the mutual welfare, protection
and improvement of business methods among merchants
and other persons engaged in any and all business or professions and occupations of every description whatsoever
that deal directly or indirectly with the public at large,
and for the educational and scientific advancements of
business methods among persons, corporations or associations engaged in business in the District of Columbia so
that the public can obtain a proper, clean, honest and fair
treatment in its dealings or transactions with such merchants, tradesmen, corporations, associations or persons
following a profession and at the same time protecting the
interest of the latter classes of businesses to enable such
as are engaged in the same to successfully and profitably
conduct their business and for the further purposes of
endeavoring to obtain the proper, just, fair and effective
enforcement of the Act of Congress approved May 29th,
1916, otherwise known as 'An Act to prevent fraudulent
advertising in the District of Columbia.'"
In carrying out its charter provisions, petitioner divides
its work roughly into five subdivisions:
(1) Prevention of fraud by informing and warning
members and the general public of the plans and schemes
of various types of swindlers.
(2) Fighting fraud by bringing general and abstract
fraudulent practices to the attention. of the public.

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

(3) Elevation of business standards by showing and
convincing merchants that the application of "the doctrine
of caveat emptor is not good business" and by showing and
convincing them that misleading advertising, extravagant
claims and price comparisons are not good business.
(4) Education of consumers to be intelligent buyers.
(5) Cooperation with various governmental agencies
interested in law enforcement.
Information which the petitioner compiles is available
to anyone without charge and is communicated to the
members and the public by means of the radio, newspapers, bulletins, meetings and interviews. This information is also exchanged with the approximately eighty-five
other Better Business Bureaus in the United States.
After paying the social security taxes for the calendar
years 1937 to 1941, inclusive, petitioner filed claims for
refunds, which were disallowed. This suit to recover the
taxes paid was then filed by petitioner in the District
Court, which granted a motion for summary judgment for
the United States. The court below affirmed the judgment, 79 U. S. App. D. C. 380,148 F. 2d 14, and we granted
certiorari, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals having
reached a contrary result in Jones v. Better Business
Bitreau of Oklahoma City, 123 F. 2d 767.
Petitioner claims that it qualifies as a corporation
"organized and operated exclusively for . . . scientific
* . . or educational purposes . . . no part of the net
earnings of which inures to the benefit of any private
shareholder or individual" within the meaning of § 811
(b) (8) of the Social Security Act and hence is exempt
from payment of social security taxes. No serious assertion is made, however, that petitioner is devoted exclusively to scientific purposes. The basic contention is that
all of its purposes and activities are directed toward the
education of business men and the general public. Merchants are taught to conduct their businesses honestly,

BETTER BUSINESS BUREAU v. U. S.
279

283

Opinion of the Court.

while consumers are taught to avoid being victimized and
to purchase goods intelligently. We join with the courts
below in rejecting this contention.
It has been urged that a liberal construction should be
applied to this exemption from taxation under the Social
Security Act in favor of religious, charitable and educational institutions. Cf. Trinidad v. Sagrada Orden, 263
U. S. 578; Helvering v. Bliss, 293 U. S. 144. But it is
unnecessary to decide that issue here. Cf. Hassett v.
Associated Hospital Service Corp., 125 F. 2d 611 (C. C. A.
1). Even the most liberal of constructions does not mean
that statutory words and phrases are to be given unusual
or tortured meanings unjustified by legislative intent or
that express limitations on such an exemption are to be
ignored. Petitioner's contention, however, demands precisely that type of statutory treatment. Hence it cannot
prevail.
In this instance, in order to fall within the claimed exemption, an organization must be devoted to educgtional
purposes exclusively. This plainly means that the presence of a single noneducational purpose, if substantial
in nature, will destroy the exemption regardless of the
number or importance of truly educational purposes. It
thus becomes unnecessary to determine the correctness of
the educational characterization of petitioner's operations,
it being apparent beyond dispute that an important, if
not the primary, pursuit of petitioner's organization is to
promote not only an ethical but also a profitable business
community. The exemption is therefore unavailable to
petitioner.
The commercial hue permeating petitioner's organization is reflected in its corporate title and in the charter
provisions dedicating petitioner to the promotion of the
"mutual welfare, protection and improvement of business
methods among merchants" and others and to the securing

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

of the "educational and scientific advancements of business methods" so that merchants might "successfully and
profitably conduct their business." Petitioner's activities
are largely animated by this commercial purpose. Unethical business practices and fraudulent merchandising
schemes are investigated, exposed and destroyed. Such
efforts to cleanse the business system of dishonest practices are highly commendable and may even serve incidentally to educate certain persons. But they are directed
fundamentally to ends other than that of education. Any
claim that education is the sole aim of petitioner's organization is thereby destroyed. See Better Business Bureau
v. District Unemployment Compensation Board, 34 A.
2d 614 (D. C. Mun. App.).
The legislative history of § 811 (b) (8) of the Social
Security Act confirms the conclusion that petitioner is not
exempt under that section. This provision was drawn
almost verbatim from § 101 (6) of the Internal Revenue
Code, dealing with exemptions from income taxation.
And Congress has made it clear, from its committee reports, that it meant to include within § 811 (b) (8) only
those organizations exempt from the income tax under
§ 101 (6).1 Significantly, however, Congress did not write
into the Social Security Act certain other exemptions embodied in the income tax provisions, especially the exemption in § 101 (7) of "business leagues, chambers of commerce, real-estate boards, or boards of trade." Petitioner
closely resembles such organizations and has, indeed, secured an exemption from the income tax under § 101 (7)
2

"The organizations which will be exempt from such [social security] taxes are churches, schools, colleges, and other educational
institutions not operated for private profit, the Y. M. C. A., the
Y. W. C. A., the Y. M. H. A., the Salvation Army, and other organizations which are exempt from income tax under section 101 (6) of the
Revenue Act of 1932." H. Rep. No. 615 (74th Cong., 1st Sess.)
p. 33; S. Rep. No. 628 (74th Cong., 1st Sess.) p. 45.

BETTER BUSINESS BUREAU v. U.S.
279

285

Opinion of the Court.

as a "business league."

Thus Congress has made, for

income tax exemption purposes, an unmistakable demarcation between corporations organized and operated exclusively for educational purposes and those organizations
in the nature of business leagues and the like. Its manifest desire to include only the former within the meaning
of § 811 (b) (8) of the Social Security Act prevents us
from construing the language of that section to include
an organization like petitioner.
Moreover, in amending the Social Security Act in 1939,
Congress created certain new exemptions by providing,
inter alia, that an organization exempt from income taxes
under any of the subdivisions of § 101 of the Internal
Revenue Code was also exempt from social security taxes
as to those employees receiving no more than $45 in a
calendar quarter.' The Congressional committee reports
referred specifically to "business leagues, chambers of
commerce, real estate boards, [and] boards of trade" as
being included among those organizations exempt from
income taxes and affected by this new partial exemption
from social security taxes. The inescapable inference
from this is that such organizations, of which petitioner is
a Petitioner states that it was incorporated under the provision of
the District of Columbia Code relating to educational and scientific
institutions and it asserts that if it were another type of institution it
would have been required to incorporate under some other Code provision. But petitioner's classification forvincorporation purposes has
no more relevance for purposes of exemption from social security taxes
than it has for purposes of income tax exemption, as to which petitioner has been classified as a business league rather than as an educational or scientific institution.

4 53 Stat. 1360, 1374, 1384; 42 U. S. C. § 409 (b) (10), 26 U. S. C.
§1426 (b)(10).
6H. Rep. No. 728 (76th Cong., 1st Seas.) pp. 47-48; S.Rep. No.
734 (76th Cong., 1st Seas.) p. 57. Educational institutions of the type

already exempt under § 811 (b) (8) were not mentioned in this
respect,

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

an example, remain subject to social security taxes as to
higher paid employees. No contention has been made
that any of petitioner's employees are within the low-paid
category.
Finally, a Treasury regulation I defining an educational
organization as "one designed primarily for the improvement or development of the capabilities of the individual"
for purposes of § 101 (6) of the Internal Revenue Code
was in effect at the time when Congress used that section
in framing § 811 (b) (8) of the Social Security Act. An
identical definition has been promulgated under § 811
(b) (8) and petitioner admittedly does not meet its
terms.' Under the circumstances the administrative
definition is "highly relevant and material evidence of the
probable general understanding of the times and of the
opinions of men who probably were active in the drafting
of the statute." White v. Winchester Club, 315 U. S. 32,
41. It lends persuasive weight to the conclusion we have
reached.
For the foregoing reasons the judgment of the court
below is
Affirmed.
MR. JUsTicE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

8Article 101 (6)-i of Treasury Regulations 86.
'Article 12 of Treasury Regulations 91; § 402.215 of Treasury
Regulations 106. The definition further states that "under excep-

tional circumstances" an educational organization "may include an
association whose sole purpose is the instruction of the public, or an
association whose primary purpose is to give lectures on subjects
useful to the individual and beneficial to the community, even though
an association of either class has incidental amusement features."

No "exceptional circumstances" are apparent in petitioner's case and,
moreover, neither exceptional category fits the petitioner.

