KIRBY PETROLEUM CO. v. COMM'R.

599

Counsel for Parties.

KIRBY PETROLEUM CO. v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
NO. 56.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued November 6, 1945.-Decided January 28, 1946.
A taxpayer owning fee simple title to certain lands leased the lands
for the production of oil, gas and other minerals for a cash bonus,
a royalty in the usual form and a share of the net profits realized
by the lessees from their operations under the lease. Held:
1. The taxpayer is entitled to deduct the depletion allowance
permitted under §§ 23 (m) and 114 (b) (3) of the Internal Revenue
Code from his share of the net profits from the oil extracted from
the leased lands, as well as from the income derived from bonuses
and royalties. Pp. 600, 607.
2. Since the "net profit" payments flow directly from the lessor's
economic interest in the oil and partake of the quality of rent
rather than of a sale price, the capital investment of the lessor is
reduced by the extraction of the oil and the lessor is entitled to
depletion. Helvering v. O'Donnell, 303 U. S. 370; Helvering v.
Elbe Oil Land Development Co., 303 U. S. 372, and Anderson v.
Helvering, 310 U. S. 404, differentiated. Pp. 605, 606.
3. The lessor's economic interest in the oil is no less when
his right is to share a net profit from its sale than when it is to
share the gross receipts. P. 604.
148 F. 2d 80, reversed; 148 F. 2d 776, affirmed.

No. 56. CERTIORARI, 325 U. S. 845, to review a judgment
reversing a decision of the Tax Court, 2 T. C. 1258.
No. 197. CERTIORARI, post, p. 703, to review a judgment
affirming a decision of the Tax Court.
Mr. Homer L. Bruce for petitioner in No. 56.
Miss Helen R. Carloss, with whom Solicitor General
McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark,
*Together with No. 197, Commissioner of Internal Revenue v.
Crawford, on certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit, argued November 6, 7, 1945.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Jr., Messrs. Sewall Key and Hilbert P. Zarky were on the
brief, for the Commissioner.
Mr. Sidney D. Krystal, with whom Mr. Oscar Moss
was on the brief, for respondent in No. 197.
Messrs. Cullen R. Liskow and Norman F. Anderson
filed a brief in No. 56, as amici curiae, urging reversal.
MiR.JUSTICE REED delivered

the opinion of the Court.

The writ of certiorari in Kirby Petroleum Co. v. Commissioner brings here for review the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, 148 F. 2d
80, reversing the decision of the Tax Court, 2 T. C. 1258,
which had sustained the taxpayer's position. The narrow
issue is the deductibility under Sections 23 (m) and 114
(b) (3)1 of the Internal Revenue Code of the depletion
2 Internal Revenue Code:
"SEc. 23. Deductions from Gross Income.
"In computing net income there shall be allowed as deductions:
"(m) DEPLETION.-In the case of mines, oil and gas wells, other
natural deposits, and timber, a reasonable allowance for depletion
and for depreciation of improvements, according to the peculiar conditions in each case; such reasonable allowance in all cases to be made
under rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Commissioner,
with the approval of the Secretary. . . . In the case of leases the
deductions shall be equitably apportioned between the lessor and
lessee. ..."
"SEC. 114. Basis for Depreciation and Depletion.

"(b) BASIS

FOR DEPLETION.-

"(3) PERCENTAGE DEPLETION FOR OIL AND GAS WELLS.-In the case
of oil and gas wells the allowance for depletion under section 23 (m)
shall be 271/2 per centum of the gross income from the property during the taxable year, excluding from such gross income an amount
equal to any rents or royalties paid or incurred by the taxpayer in
respect of the property. ..."

KIRBY PETROLEUM CO. v. COMM'R.
599

601

Opinion of the Court.

allowance of 271/2 per centum of gross income from the
property during the taxable year, permitted by those
sections from the taxpayer's gross income for 1940 from
certain oil leases.
The taxpayer owned the fee simple title to certain Texas
lands, except for a minor mineral interest which is not
here involved. It leased the lands to two companies for
the production of oil, gas and other minerals for a cash
bonus, a royalty in the usual form and an agreement,
executed contemporaneously with the lease and as part
consideration therefor, that the taxpayer should receive
twenty per cent of the net money profits realized by the
lessees from their operations under the lease.
The same narrow issue is in Commissioner v. Crawford.
In this latter case, the taxpayer owned an interest in fee
in certain real estate in California. She, together with her
co-owners, entered into several leases for portions of the
property for the production of oil, gas and other minerals.
For an understanding of the issues here presented, it is
unnecessary to analyze the leases further than to say that
they were given in consideration of bonuses, royalties in
the usual form and additional payments from the net
profits of the operation.! The Commissioner assessed a
deficiency because of the denial of a claimed depletion
allowance for 1938, 1939 and 1940. The Tax Court
supported the taxpayer's position. The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed. 148 F. 2d 776.
In both cases, the Commissioner concedes that the depletion allowance of §§ 23 (m) and 114 (b) (3) is appli2The following clause of one lease will illustrate the type of arrangement which produced the additional payments:
"When, and as soon as the 'Income Credits' of said account shall
exceed the 'Operating Charges' of the Lessee, the Lessor shall be entitled to a secondary and additional royalty, the amount thereof to be
one-half of such difference between the 'Operating Charges' and
'Income Credits' of said account." The leases defined methods of
computation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

cable to the bonuses and royalties.' The statutory provisions are identical for all years. The 27 per centum
allowed by § 114 (b) (3) was therefore properly deducted
by the taxpayers from these bonuses and royalties. In
each of these years there was also income to these taxpayers
from the lease provisions for the lessors to share in the net
profits from the oil extracted from the leased lands. The
taxpayers claim the right to deduct the 271/2 per cent depletion from these receipts also. These are the deductions
which the Commissioner disallowed. On account of the
conflicting decisions of the Circuits in these cases on the
point, certiorari was granted by us. 325 U. S. 845; 326
U. S. 703.
The present provisions for depletion allowances have
been worked out so as to give the holder of an economic
interest in the oil or other natural resource an allowance
for depletion." While there are income incidents to the
utilization of natural resources, there is also an obvious
exhaustion of the capital used to produce the income. In
theory the aggregate sum allowed for depletion would
equal the value of the natural resource at the time of its
8

Burnet v. Harmel,287 U. S. 103, 111; Palmer v. Bender, 287 U. S.
551, 557. See Anderson v. Helvering, 310 U. S. 404, 409.
' Treasury Regulations 103, § 19.23 (m)-1, as amended by T. D.
5413, 1944 Cum. Bull. 124, 129:

"Under such provisions, the owner of an economic interest in mineral deposits or standing timber is allowed annual depletion deductions. An economic interest is possessed in every case in which the
taxpayer has acquired, by investment, any interest in mineral in place
or standing timber and secures, by any form of legal relationship,
income derived from the severance and sale of the mineral or timber,

to which he must look for a return of his capital. But a person who
has no capital investment in the mineral deposit or standing timber
does not possess an economic interest merely because, through a contractual relation to the owner, he possesses a mere economic advantage
derived from production. Thus, an agreement between the owner
of an economic interest and another entitling the latter to purchase

the product upon production or to share in the net income derived
from the interest of such owner does not convey a depletable economic
interest."

KIRBY PETROLEUM CO. v. COMM'R.
599

603

Opinion of the Court.

acquisition by the taxpayer, so that at the exhaustion of
the resource the taxpayer would have recovered through
depletion exactly his investment. The administrative
difficulties in taxation of oil and gas production in view of
the uncertainties of quantities and time of acquisition,
that is at the purchase of the property or at the discovery
of oil or gas, finally have brought Congress to the arbitrary
allowance of 271/ per cent now embodied in § 114 (b) (3).5
Thus, the 271/ per cent is appropriated by the statute to
the restoration of the taxpayer's capital and the rest of
the proceeds of the natural asset becomes gross income.
Anderson v. Helvering, 310 U. S. 404, 407-8. It follows
from this theory that only a taxpayer with an economic
interest in the asset, here the oil, is entitled to the depletion. Palmer v. Bender, 287 U. S. 551, 557; Thomas v.
Perkins, 301 U. S. 655, 659. By this is meant only that
under his contract he must look to the oil in place as the
source of the return of his capital investment. The technical title to the oil in place is not important. Title in a
case of a lease may depend upon the law of the state in
which the deposit lies. Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S. 103,
109-10. The test of the right to depletion is whether the
taxpayer has a capital investment in the oil in place which
is necessarily reduced as the oil is extracted. See Anderson
v. Helvering, 310 U. S. 404, 407.
The taxpayers here involved were lessors. Under the
leases and our previous decisions, these taxpayers had an
economic interest, a capital investment, in so much of the
extracted oil as was used by the lessee to pay to the taxpayers the royalties and bonuses. See note 3, supra. The
taxpayer lessors were entitled to the depletion allowance
on these royalties and bonuses whether they were paid to
them in oil or cash, the proceeds of the oil. Helvering v.
Twin Bell Oil Syndicate, 293 U. S. 312, 321.
5 For the background of the present provisions, see Helvering v.
Twin Bell Oil Syndicate, 293 U. S. 312.

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

If the additional payment in these leases had been a
portion of the gross receipts from the sale of the oil extracted by the lessees instead of a portion of the net profits,
there would have been no doubt as to the economic interest
of the lessors in such oil. This would be an oil royalty.
The lessors' economic interest in the oil is no less when
their right is to share a net profit. As in Thomas v. Perkins,
301 U. S. 655, their only source of payment is from the net
profit which the oil produces. In both situations the lessors' possibility of return depends upon oil extraction and
ends with the exhaustion of the supply. Economic interest
does not mean title to the oil in place but the possibility
of profit from that economic interest dependent solely
upon the extraction and sale of the oil.'
The depletion allowance, in the aggregate, is always
the same amount, 271/2 per centum of the "gross income
from the property." ' "In the case of leases the deductions shall be equitably apportioned between the lessor
and lessee." § 23 (in). An equitable apportionment is
obtained by excluding from the lessee's gross income from
oil or gas produced from the property, Helvering v. Twin
Bell Oil Syndicate, supra, 321, "an amount equal to any
rents or royalties paid or incurred by the taxpayer in respect of the property." § 114 (b) (3) ! Such deductions
become the gross income of the4 lessor. We think these
taxpayers had an economic interest in the oil, sufficient to
support depletion on the sums received as net profit.
If we assume that the only payment for the privilege
of oil extraction made to the taxpayer lessors by the lessees
6While the reservation of royalties shows an economic interest in
the oil necessary for the satisfaction of the royalties, such reservation

would not show an economic interest in oil not necessary for the payment of the royalties. But see Estate of Japhet, 3 T. C. 86.
'§ 114 (b) (3). The gross income refers only to oil and gas.
Heivering v. Twin Bell Oil Syndicate, 293 U. S. 312, 320-21; Anderson
v. Helvering, 310 U. S. 404,408.
8 See Helvering v. Twin Bell Oil Syndicate, 293 U. S. 312, 322.

KIRBY PETROLEUM CO. v. COMM'R.
599

605

Opinion of the Court.

was the portion of "net income" paid under the leases, it
would be clear that such payment of "net income" would
taxwise be rent or royalty paid by the lessees for the privilege of extraction. Since § 114 (b) (3) would require
the lessees to deduct this rent or royalty from their gross
incomes from the sale of oil from the property before
taking the lessees' depletion, a gross receipt from oil sold,
equal to the amount of the "net income" paid to the taxpayer lessors, would not be subject to depletion, unless
the taxpayer lessors are permitted to apply depletion to
this payment. This would be contrary to the purpose of
the depletion statute, which is to allow to the lessor and
lessee together a depletion of 27 per cent of the gross
sale price of the oil. On the other hand if depletion on the
"net income" payments is allowed to the lessors, the
lessees are allowed depletion on the gross income from oil
sales less the net income payment and the entire allowable depletion is allocated between the lessors and
lessees.
Reference is made to a sentence in Anderson v. Helvering, 310 U. S. 404, 409, as indicating that this Court had determined that "net profit" payments were not subject to
depletion. It reads as follows:
"A share in the net profits derived from development
and operation, on the contrary, does not entitle the holder
of such interest to a depletion allowance even though continued production is essential to the realization of such
profits."

The Anderson case involved the taxability to the oil
operator of the gross proceeds of the oil, which his contract for the purchase of the oil property required him
to turn over to the seller as a means of satisfying a deferred payment for the property. As the deferred payment also had to be satisfied out of any sale of the fee
simple title to the land, we held the operator liable as a
purchaser because the seller was not "entirely dependent"

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

upon the oil production for his purchase price. This gave
the operator the benefit of the applicable depletion.
Page 413. Only the reservation of an interest in the fee
differentiated the Anderson case from Thomas v. Perkins,

301 U. S. 655, where deferred payment in oil or its proceeds, payable only from production, was held subject to
depletion when paid to the assignors.
The part just quoted from the Anderson case occurs in
setting out the series of cases dealing with depletion. No
net income was involved in the Anderson case. The statement was supported by the citation of Helvering v. O'Donnell, 303 U. S. 370, and Helvering v. Elbe Oil Land Co.,
303 U. S. 372. In the O'Donnell case, the taxpayer, who
received the "net income" from an oil operation, was a
stranger to the lease, who had contracted for a share of
its net profits as consideration for his stock in a corporation which was the owner of the lease. "The question is
whether respondent had an interest, that is, a capital inAs a mere
vestment, in the oil and gas in place.....
owner of shares in the San Gabriel Company, respondent
had no such interest." Page 371. In the Elbe Oil Land
case, there was a specific provision that consideration other
than the "net profit" payment should result in "full ownership" to the buyer. The transaction which included the
clause for "net profit" was a sale of all the right, title and
interest in the property, which consisted of tangible personalty and drilling permits, agreements, and leases. This
Court said the additional payment of a share of net profits
did not qualify "in any way the effect of the transaction
as an absolute sale." Page 375. Thus the Anderson case
correctly stated that a share in "net profits," disassociated
from an economic interest, does not entitle the holder to
a depletion allowance. The facts of each transaction must
be appraised.to determine whether the transferor has made
an absolute sale or has retained an economic interest-a
capital investment.

BOLLENBACH v. UNITED STATES.
599

Syllabus.

In our view, the "net profit" payments in these cases
flow directly from the taxpayers' economic interest in the
oil and partake of the quality of rent rather than of a sale

price. Therefore, the capital investment of the lessors is
reduced by the extraction of the oil and the lessors should
have depletion.
No. 56 is reversed.
No. 197 is affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE DOUoLAS dissents.
BOLLENBACH v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 41.

Argued October 12, 15, 1945.-Decided January 28, 1946.

1. In a prosecution for conspiracy to commit an offense under the
National Stolen Property Act, an instruction to the jury that the
possession of property shortly after it had been stolen in another
State created a presumption that the possessor had transported
the property in interstate commerce constituted reversible error.
Pp. 609, 611, 613.
2. The manifest misdirection in the circumstances of this case can
not be treated as a "technical error" not affecting the defendant's
substantial rights. P. 614.
3. Under the Criminal Code, one who aids or abets the commission
of a federal offense is punishable as a principal; the offense of an
accessory after the fact is distinct and differently punishable.
P. 611.
4. A conviction ought not to rest on an equivocal direction to the
jury on a basic issue. P. 613.
5. Upon review of a conviction in the federal courts, the question is
not whether guilt may be spelt out of the record, but whether guilt
has been found by the jury according to the procedure and standards appropriate for criminal trials in the federal courts. P. 614.

