236

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

326 U. S.

v. DETROIT & CLEVELAND
NAVIGATION CO. ET AL.

UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 22.

Argued October 9, 10, 1945.-Decided November 5, 1945.

Application was made to the Interstate Commerce Commission under
§ 309 (c) of Part III of the Interstate Commerce Act for a certificate of convenience and necessity to operate as common carriers of
motor vehicles by water on the Great Lakes. It was opposed by
appellees, who had been engaged in such service before the war.
The Government had requisitioned many vessels of the appellees,
leaving two of them with no automobile carriers and the third with
only nine vessels, five of which were owned by and operated for the
Government. Applicants owned free of encumbrance three vessels
which had been used extensively before the war as automobile
carriers, mostly under charter to one of the appellees. They had
been converted for carrying bulk traffic but could readily be reconverted to handle automobile traffic. The Commission found that
'before the war there were insufficient facilities for this purpose
during peak periods, that there had been a definite need for the
carrying capacity of applicants' vessels, that there was a reasonable
certainty that a like need would arise when production of automobiles for civilians was resumed, that there was considerable
uncertainty as to the time it would take for appellees to procure
additional vessels and place them in operation, and that the public
interest would be adversely affected if appellees were delayed in
acquiring the additional facilities needed. It held that the proposed service would be required by future public convenience and
necessity and granted the certificate. Its action was challenged by
appellees. Held:
1. The Commission acted within its statutory authority and
administrative discretion in granting the certificate. P. 241.
2. A positive finding by the Commission of an actual inability
of existing carriers to acquire the necessary facilities to meet future
transportation needs is not a prerequisite to the granting of such
a certificate. P. 240.
3. The Commission has been entrusted with a wide range of
discretionary authority in determining whether to grant such
certificates. P. 241.

U. S. v. DETROIT NAVIGATION CO.
236

Opinion of the Court.

4. Its function is not only to appraise the facts and draw inferences from them but also to exercise an expert judgment and to
determine from its analysis of the total situation on which side of
the controversy the public interest lies. P. 241.
5. It is entitled to consider the margin of safety which the public
interest requires for the resumption of an interrupted service; and
it has discretion to conclude that future shipping needs should be
assured rather than left uncertain. Pp. 240, 241.
57 F. Supp. 81, reversed.

from a decree of a district court of three judges
setting aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission granting a certificate of convenience and necessity
to operate as common carriers of motor vehicles by water
on the Great Lakes.
APPEAL

Mr. Charles H. Weston, with whom Acting Solicitor
GeneralJudson, Assistant Attorney GeneralBerge, Messrs.
Walter J. Cummings, Jr., Daniel W. Knowlton and Daniel
H. Kunkel were on the brief, for the United States and
the Interstate Commerce Commission; and Mr. Sparkman

D. Foster for the T. J. McCarthy Steamship Co. et al.,
appellants.
Messrs. S. S. Eisen and Ernest S. Ballard, with whom
Messrs. James Turner, Willis C. Bullard, Isaac H. Mayer
and Carl Meyer were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Interstate Commerce Commission pursuant to
§ 309 (c) of Part III of the Interstate Commerce Act
(54 Stat. 941, 49 U. S. C. § 909 (c)) granted to T. J.
McCarthy Steamship Co. and Automotive Trades Steamship Co. (whom we will call the applicants) a certificate
of convenience and necessity to operate as common carriers in the transportation by water of motor vehicles
from Detroit, Michigan to ports on Lake Erie and Lake

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Superior.' 260 I. C. C. 175. The appellees, who were
protestants in the proceeding before the Commission and
who are common carriers of motor vehicles by vessels on
the Great Lakes, challenged that order before a district
court of three judges. That court set aside the Commission's order. 57 F. Supp. 81. The case is here on
appeal."
World War II caused the cessation of the production of
motor vehicles for civilian use. Prior to that time appellees as common carriers had transported motor vehicles
by vessels from Detroit to various ports on the Great
Lakes. The applicants owned three vessels equipped as
automobile carriers. These vessels were used extensively
prior to the war in transporting automobiles from Detroit
to Lake Erie ports. They were for the most part under
charter to one of the appellees from 1936 through 1941.
With the advent of the war the United States requisitioned
many of the vessels of the appellees, using some of them
for carrying bulk commodities on the Great Lakes and removing others to the salt water. As a result, two of the
appellees at the time of the hearing 3 in June, 1943, had
no automobile carriers and were not operating; the third
was operating nine vessels, of which five were owned by
and operated for the United States. In contrast, the applicants owned their three vessels free and clear of any
incumbrance; and while those vessels had been converted
for carrying bulk traffic, all of the equipment necessary for
reconversion into automobile carriers had been preserved.
The Commission found that prior to the war there were
insufficient facilities for the movement of automobiles on
1 The

companies are both controlled by T. J. McCarthy. The

certificate runs to T. J. McCarthy Steamship Co., for itself and as
managing agent of Automotive Trades Steamship Co.
2Sec. 210 (28 U. S. C. § 47a) and § 238 of the Judicial Code as
amended, 28 U. S. C. § 345.
' The Commission rendered its decision on March 7, 1944.

U. S. v. DETROIT NAVIGATION CO.
236

Opinion of the Court.

the Great Lakes during certain peak periods even with the
carrying capacity of applicants' vessels included. There
was testimony of automobile manufacturers and of motor
common carriers that the carrying capacity of applicants'
vessels would be needed when the manufacture of automobiles was resumed. The Commission found that prior
to the war there was a definite need for the carrying capacity of applicants' vessels in this transportation and
that there was a reasonable certainty that a like need for
that capacity would arise when the production of automobiles for civilian use was resumed. It found that while
the applicants could readily reconvert their vessels to
handle automobile traffic, there was considerable uncertainty as to the length of time it would take the appellees
to procure and place in operation the additional vessels
which would be needed when production of automobiles
for civilian use was resumed. It concluded that the public interest would be adversely affected if, after production
was resumed, appellees were delayed in acquiring the
additional facilities needed to meet the transportation demands. On that basis it held that the proposed service
would be required by future public convenience and
necessity.
The District Court held that the Commission's order
could not be sustained in absence of evidence that applicants' vessels were the only vessels available to appellees
to meet the prospective transportation demands beyond
that furnished by their own vessels. It concluded that
not only was there no finding that if applicants' vessels
were not chartered there was no other carrying capacity
which could have been acquired but that the record established the contrary.
The case, however, is not one where there is a service
presently being rendered and a newcomer seeks entry into
the field. Whether in that event the ruling of the District
Court would be correct is a question we do not reach.

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

While the authority of appellees to serve as carriers has
not been terminated, the service formerly rendered by
them has been interrupted by the war. The applications
concern a proposed additional service to be rendered in
the future. Sec. 309 (c) authorizes the Commission to
permit the proposed service to be rendered if it "is or will
be required by the present or future public convenience
and necessity." That entails a prophecy so far as future
requirements are concerned. The Commission made that
prophecy on the basis of (1) the earlier service which had
been discontinued during the war, (2) the likely requirements for the future, and (3) the ability of the existing
carriers to effect an expeditious resumption of service at
the war's end. The ability of the applicants promptly to
render the service at that time is adequately established.
Whether the appellees could or would move with like dispatch is less certain. Many of the vessels which they previously owned had been taken by the United States. And
the Commission had doubt as to whether they would or
could obtain the necessary additional transportation facilities in time to meet the foreseeable future demands which
would arise when automobile manufacture was resumed.
We do not have here a case where there was a surplus of
facilities in the prior service which the war interrupted.
The Commission indeed found that the prior service had
not been adequate, a finding which we think is supported
by evidence. It took that fact into consideration in determining the margin of safety which the public interest
required for the resumption of the interrupted service.
We think the inadequacy of the prior service was relevant
to that determination. It not only bore upon the future
shipping needs which were likely but also underscored the
danger of delays in resuming the service if the field were
left exclusively to existing carriers.
If the Commission were required to deny these applications unless it found an actual inability on the part of

U. S. v. DETROIT NAVIGATION CO.
236

Opinion of the Court.

existing carriers to acquire the facilities necessary for
future transportation needs, a limitation would be imposed
on the power of the Commission which is not found in the
Act. The Commission is the guardian of the public interest in determining whether certificates of convenience
and necessity shall be granted. For the performance of
that function the Commission has been entrusted with a
wide range of discretionary authority. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Parker, 326 U. S. 60. Its function
is not only to appraise the facts and to draw inferences
from them but also to bring to bear upon the problem an
expert judgment and to determine from its analysis of the
total situation on which side of the controversy the public
interest lies. Its doubt that the public interest will be
adequately served if resumption of service is left to existing carriers is entitled to the same respect as its expert
judgment on other complicated transportation problems.
See Chesapeake & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.
35, 42; Alton R. Co. v. United States, 315 U. S. 15, 23.
Forecasts as to the future are necessary to the decision.
But neither uncertainties as to the future nor the inability
or failure of existing carriers to show the sufficiency of
their plans to meet future traffic demands need paralyze
the Commission into inaction. It may be that the public
interest requires that future shipping needs be assured
rather than left uncertain. The Commission has the discretion so to decide. It went no further here.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTIcE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

