ASHBACKER RADIO CO. v. F. C. C.
Opinion of the Court.

ASHBACKER RADIO CORP. v. FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 65.

Argued November 13, 1945.-Decided December 3, 1945.

1. Where two applications pertaining to broadcasting station licenses
under the Federal Communications Act are mutually exclusive,
the grant of one without hearings on both deprives the loser of the
opportunity for a hearing to which he is entitled under § 309 (a)
of the Acteven though his application is set for a hearing at a later
date. Pp. 327, 329, 333.
2. In such a case, the applicant whose application was not acted upon
is placed in the same position as a newcomer who seeks to displace
an established broadcaster and thus is placed under a greater burden
than if a hearing on his application had preceded the grant of the
other application. P. 332.
3. While his statutory right to a hearing has been preserved in form,
it has been substantially nullified as a practical matter by the grant
of the other application. P. 334.
Reversed.

CERTIORARI, 325

U. S. 846, to review dismissal of an ap-

peal from an order of the Federal Communications Commission dismissing a petition for a hearing, rehearing and
other relief.
Mr. Paul M. Segal, with whom Messrs. PhilipJ. Hennessey, Jr. and Harold G. Cowgill were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Ralph F. Fuchs, with whom Solicitor General McGrath, Messrs. Rosel H. Hyde, Harry M. Plotkin, Max
Goldman and Joseph M. Kittner were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DouoLAs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The primary question in this case is whether an applicant for a construction permit under the Federal Corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

munications Act (48 Stat. 1064, 47 U. S. C. § 151) is
granted the hearing to which he is entitled by § 309 (a)
of the Act,' where the Commission, having before it two
applications which are mutually exclusive, grants one
without a hearing and sets the other for hearing.
In March 1944 the Fetzer Broadcasting Company -filed
with the Commission an application for authority to construct a new broadcasting station at Grand Rapids, Michigan, to operate on 1230 kc with 250 watts power, unlimited
time. In May 1944, before the Fetzer application had
been acted upon, petitioner filed an application for authority to change the operating frequency of its station WKBZ
of Muskegon, Michigan, from 1490 kc with 250 watts
power, unlimited time, to 1230 kc. The Commission,
after stating that the simultaneous operation on 1230 kc
at Grand Rapids and Muskegon "would result in intolerable interference to both applicants," declared that the
two applications were "actually exclusive." The Commission, upon an examination of the Fetzer application and
supporting data, granted it in June 1944 without a hearing. On the same day the Commission designated petitioner's application for hearing. Petitioner thereupon filed
a petition for hearing, rehearing and other relief directed
against the grant of the Fetzer application. The Commission denied this petition, stating,
"The Commission has not denied petitioner's application. It has designated the application for hearing as
required by Section 309 (a) of the Act. At this hearing,
petitioner will have ample opportunity to show that its
operation as proposed will better serve the public interest
than will the grant of the Fetzer application as authorized
June 27, 1944. Such grant does not preclude the Commis"Sec. 319 relates to applications for construction permits. But
since such applications are in substance applications for station licenses
(Gos v. Federal Radio Commission, 62 App. D. C. 301, 67 F. 2d 507,
508) the Commission in such cases uniformly follows the procedure
prescribed in § 309 (a) for station licenses.

ASHBACKER RADIO CO. v. F. C. C.
327

Opinion of the Court.

sion, at a later date from taking any action which it may
find will serve the public interest. In re: Berks Broadcasting Company (WEEU), Reading, Pennsylvania, 8 FCC
427 (1941); In re: The Evening News Association (WWJ),
Detroit, Michigan, 8 FCC 552 (1941); In re: Merced
Broadcating Company (KYOS), Merced, California, 9
FCC 118, 120 (1942)."
Petitioner filed a notice of appeal from the grant of the
Fetzer construction permit in the Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia, asserting that it was a "person
aggrieved or whose interests are adversely affected" by the
action of the Commission within the meaning of § 402
(b) (2) of the Act.2 The Commission filed a motion to
dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction on the part of
the court to entertain it. This motion was granted without opinion. The case is here on a petition for a writ of
certiorari which we granted because of the importance
of the question presented.
Our chief problem is to reconcile two provisions of
§ 309 (a) where the Commission has before it mutually
exclusive applications. The first authorizes the Commission "upon examination" of an application for a station
license to grant it if the Commission determines that
"public interest, convenience, or necessity would be
served" by the grant.3 The second provision of § 309 (a)
says that if, upon examination of such an application, the
2

The relevant provisions of § 402 (b) read as follows:
"An appeal may be taken, in the manner hereinafter provided, from
decisions of the Commission to the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia in any of the following cases:
"(2) By any other person aggrieved or whose interests are adversely
affected by any decision of the Commission granting or refusing any
such application."
8Sec. 307 (a) provides: "The Commission, if public convenience,
interest, or necessity will be served thereby, subject to the limitations
of this chapter, shall grant to any applicant therefor a station license
provided for by this chapter."

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Commission does not reach such a decision, "it shall notify
the applicant thereof, shall fix and give notice of a time
and place for hearing thereon, and shall afford such applicant an opportunity to be heard under such rules and
regulations as it may prescribe."" It is thus plain that
§ 309 (a) not only gives the Commission authority to grant
licenses without a hearing, but also gives applicants a
right to a hearing before their applications are denied.
We do not think it is enough to say that the power of
the Commission to issue a license on a finding of public
interest, convenience or necessity supports its grant of
one of two mutually exclusive applications without a hearing of the other. For if the grant of one effectively precludes the other, the statutory right to a hearing which
Congress has accorded applicants before denial of their
applications becomes an empty thing. We think that is
the case here.
The Commission in its notice of hearing on petitioner's
application stated that the application "will not be granted
by the Commission unless the issues listed above are determined in favor of the applicant on the basis of a record
duly and properly made by means of a formal hearing."
One of the issues listed was the determination of "the
extent of any interference which would result from the
simultaneous operation" of petitioner's proposed station
and Fetzer's station. Since the Commission itself stated
4

Sec. 309 (a) reads as follows:
"If upon examination of any application for a station license or for
the renewal or modification of a station license the Commission shall
determine that public interest, convenience, or necessity would be
served by the granting thereof, it shall authorize the issuance, renewal,
or modification thereof in accordance with said finding. In the event
the Commission upon examination of any such application does not
reach such decision with respect thereto, it shall notify the applicant
thereof, shall fix and give notice of a time and place for hearing thereon,
and shall afford such applicant an opportunity to be heard under such
rules and regulations as it may prescribe."

ASHBACKER RADIO CO. v. F. C. C.
327

Opinion of the Court.

that simultaneous operation of the two stations would result in "intolerable interference" to both, it is apparent
that petitioner carries a burden which cannot be met. To
place that burden on it is in effect to make its hearing a
rehearing on the grant of the competitor's license rather
than a hearing on the merits of its own application. That
may satisfy the strict letter of the law but certainly not
its spirit or intent."
The Fetzer application was not conditionally granted
pending consideration of petitioner's application. Indeed
a stay of it pending the outcome of this litigation was
denied. Of course the Fetzer license, like any other license
granted by the Commission, was subject to certain conditions which the Act imposes as a matter of law. We fully
recognize that the Commission, as it said, is not precluded
"at a later date from taking any action which it may find
will serve the public interest." No licensee obtains any
vested interest in any frequency.6 The Commission for
The Commission recognizes in its regulations the desirability of
hearing such related matters at the same time or in consolidated cases.
By § 1.193, 47 Code Fed. Reg. Cum. Supp. it is provided:
"In fixing dates for hearings the Commission will, so far as practicable, endeavor to fix the same date for separate hearings (a) on all
related matters which involve the same applicant, or arise out of the
same complaint or cause; and (b) for separate hearings on all applications which by reason of the privileges, terms, or conditions requested present conflicting claims of the same nature."
And by § 1.194, 47 Code Fed. Reg. Cum.Supp. it is provided:
'The Commission, upon motion, or upon its own motion, will, where
such action will best conduce to the proper dispatch of business and to
the ends of justice, consolidate for hearing (a) any cases which involve
the same applicant or arise from the same complaint or cause, or (b)
any applications which by reason of the privileges, terms, or conditions
requested present conflicting claims of the same nature."
6
See §§ 301, 304, 307 (d), 309 (b) (1) of the Act. "The policy of
the Act is clear that no person is to have anything in the nature of a
property right as a result of the granting of a license." FederalCommunication. Commission v. Sanders Radio Station, 309 U. S. 470,475.

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

specified reasons may revoke any station license pursuant
to the procedure prescribed by § 312 (a) and may suspend
the license of any operator on the grounds and in the
manner specified by § 303 (m).

It may also modify a

station license if in its judgment "such action will promote
the public interest, convenience, and necessity, or the provisions of this chapter ..

. will be more fully complied

with." § 312 (b). And licenses for broadcasting stations
are limited to three years, the renewals being subject to
the same considerations and practice which affect the
granting of original applications. §307 (d). But in all
those instances the licensee is given an opportunity to be
heard before final action can be taken.7 What the Commission can do to Fetzer it can do to any licensee. As the
Fetzer application has been granted, petitioner, therefore,
is presently in the same position as a newcomer who seeks
to displace an established broadcaster. By the grant of
the Fetzer application petitioner has been placed under
a greater burden than if its hearing had been earlier.
Legal theory is one thing. But the practicalities are different. For we are told how difficult it is for a newcomer
to make the comparative showing necessary to displace
an established licensee. Peoria Broadcasting Co. and
Illinois Broadcasting Co., 1 F. C. C. 167. No suggestion
is made here as in Matheson Radio Co., 8 F. C. C. 427 or
The Evening News Association, 8 F. C. C. 552, that it
may be possible to make workable adjustments so that
both applications can be granted. The Commission concedes that "these applications are actually exclusive."
The applications are for a facility which can be granted
to only one. Since the facility has been granted to Fetzer,
the hearing accorded petitioner concerns a license facility
TFor the regulations of the Commission governing these procedures
see 47 Code Fed. Reg. Cum. Supp. § 1.401 (revocation), § 1.359 and
§ 1.402 (modification), § 1.411 and § 1A12 (suspension), § 1.360
(renewal).

ASHBACKER RADIO CO. v. F. C. C.
327

Opinion of the Court.

no longer available for a grant unless the earlier grant is
recalled. A hearing designed as one for an available frequency becomes by the Commission's action in substance
one for the revocation or modification of an outstanding
license. So it would seem that petitioner would carry as
a matter of law the same burden regardless of the precise
provisions of the notice of hearing.
It is suggested that the Commission, by granting the
Fetzer application first, concluded that the public interest would be furthered by making Fetzer's service available at the earliest possible date. If so, that conclusion
is only an inference from What the Commission did.
There is no suggestion, let alone a finding, by the Commission that the demands of the public interest were so
urgent as to preclude the delay which would be occasioned
by a hearing.
The public, not some private, interest, convenience, or
necessity governs the issuance of licenses under the Act.
But we are not concerned here with the merits.' This
involves only a matter of procedure. Congress has granted
applicants a right to a hearing on their applications for
station licenses.' Whether that is wise policy or whether
the procedure adopted by the Commission in this case is
preferable is not for us to decide. We only hold that
where two bona fide applications are mutually exclusive
the grant of one without a hearing to both deprives the
loser of the opportunity which Congress chose to give him.
In Federal Communications Commission v. Sanders
Radio Station, 309 U. S. 470, 476-477, we held that a rival
station which would suffer economic injury by the grant
8 See Federal Communications Commission v. Pottaville Broadcasting Co., 309 U. S. 134, 145-146.
9Apparently no regulation exists which, for orderly administration,
requires an application for a frequency, previously applied for, to be
filed within a certain date. Nor is there any suggestion that petitioner's application, which was filed shortly after Fetzer's, was not flied
in good faith.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FuAxnmvu

, J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

of a license to another station had standing to appeal
under § 402 (b) (2) of the Act. In FederalCommunica,
tions Commission v. National Broadcasting Co., 319 U. S.
239, we reached the same conclusion where an application
had been granted which would create such interference
on the channel given an existing licensee as in effect to
modify the earlier license. Petitioner is at least as
adversely affected by the action of the Commission in this
case as were the protestants in those cases. While the
statutory right of petitioner to a hearing on its application

has in form been preserved, it has as a practical matter
been substantially nullified by the grant of the Fetzer
application.' 0
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and M.

JUSTICE JACKSON

took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JusTIcE FRANKFURTER, dissenting.
The extent to which administrative agencies are to be
entrusted with the enforcement of federal legislation is

10 A license to operate

a station is required in addition to a permit
to construct one. As respects an operating license, § 319 (b) provides:
"Upon the completion of any station for the construction or continued
construction of which a permit has been granted, and upon it being
made to appear to the Commission that all the terms, conditions, and
obligations set forth in the application and permit have been fully
met, and that no cause or circumstance arising or first coming to the
knowledge of the Commission since the granting of the permit would,
in the judgment of the Commission, make the operation of such station
against the public interest, the Commission shall issue a license to the
lawful holder of said permit for the operation of said station. Said
license shall conform generally to the terms of said permit."
For the regulations of the Commission governing such applications
see 47 Code Fed. Reg. Cum. Supp. § 1.357. It was conceded on oral
argument that in that proceeding petitioner would not be entitled
to intervene to challenge the propriety of the grant of the construction permit to Fetzer without a hearing on petitioner's application.

ASHBACKER RADIO CO. v. F. C. C.
327

FR&xnmnm, J., dissenting.

for Congress to determine. Insofar as the actions of these
agencies come under the scrutiny of judicial review, it is
the business of the courts to respect the distribution of
authority that Congress makes as between administrative
and judicial tribunals. Of course courts must hold the
administrative agencies within the confines of their Congressional authority. But in doing so they should not
even unwittingly assume that the familiar is the necessary
and demand of the administrative process observance of
conventional judicial procedures when Congress has made
no such exaction. Since these agencies deal largely with

the vindication of public interest and not tfe enforcement
of private rights, this Court ought not to imply hampering
restrictions, not imposed by Congress, upon the effectiveness of the administrative process. One reason for the
expansion of administrative agencies has been the recognition that procedures appropriate for the adjudication
of private rights in the courts may be inappropriate for
the kind of determinations which administrative agencies
are called upon to make.
The disposition of the present case seems to me to disregard these controlling considerations, if the Court now
holds, as I understand it so to do, that whenever conflicting applications are made for a radio license the Communications Commission must hear all the applications
together.
In the regulation of broadcasting, Congress moved outside the framework of protected property rights. See
Commi8sion v. Sanders Radio Station, 309 U. S. 470.
Congress could have retained for itself the granting or
denial of the use of the air for broadcasting purposes, and
it could have granted individual licenses by individual
enactments as in the past it gave river and harbor rights
to individuals. Instead of making such a crude use of
its Constitutional powers, Congress, by the Communications Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U. S. C. § 151, for-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFMUTER,

J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

mulated an elaborate licensing scheme and established
the Federal Communications Commission as its agency
'for enforcement. Our task is to give effect to this legislation and to the authority which Congress has seen fit
to repose in the Communications Commission.
To come to the immediate issue, what has the Commission done that is here challenged and what authority
from Congress does it avouch for what it has done?
The Commission had before it at least two applications
for the use of the same radio wave length in the Western
Michigan aref (Muskegon-Grand Rapids)-that of the
petitioner and Fetzer's. The problem before the Commission was the procedure appropriate in acting upon
these, two applications. Congress has authorized the
Commission togrnt an application without resort to a

public hearing, 47 U. S. C. 99 309 (a), 319 (a), but a
public hearing may be demanded when the Commission
denies an application, 47 U. S. C. § 309 (a). The Court
in effect rules that in the case of multiple applications
the Commission can decide only after a public hearing
on all of them. This requirement is apparently derived
from the assumption that in this case the Commission,
having received two conflicting 'applications, shut off, out
of hand and quite arbitrarily, petitioner's right to have
its application considered, as of course the Commission
is in duty bound to consider it, by granting Fetzer's. But
that is not what happened. The Commission is charged
with the ascertainment of the public interest. We must
assume that an agency which Congress has trusted discharges its trust. On the record before us it must be
accepted that the Commission, before having taken action,
carefully tested, according to its established practice, the
claims both of Fetzer and of petitioner by the touchstone
of public interest. See Attorney General's Committee
on Administrative Procedure, Monograph No. 3, The Federal Communications Commission (1940) 8 et seq. On

ASHBACKER RADIO CO. v. F. C. C.
327

FtN

mT=, J., dissenting.

the basis of such inquiry, it found that the Fetzer application was clearly in the public interest; it found that the
Ashbacker application did not make a sufficient showing
even to stay the Commission's hand in withholding the
Fetzer grant long enough to enable Ashbacker to support
its application more persuasively. On the contrary, it
thought the public interest would be furthered by making
Fetzer's service available at the earliest possible date.
There is nothing in the Communications Act that restricts
the Commission in translating its duty to further the
public interest as it did in the particular situation before
it. In granting Fetzer's application and setting the denial
of the petitioner's down for a hearing after fully canvassing the situation, the Commission brought itself
within the explicit provisions of the Communications Act
and applied them with that flexibility of procedure which
Congress has put into the Commission's own keeping.
Federal CommunicationsCommission v. Pottsville Broadcasting Co., 309 U. S. 134, 138.
But it is suggested that the right to a hearing upon
denial of an application is not satisfied by a hearing bound
to be barren. In order to appreciate the function of a
hearing under the statute in a situation like that before
us, however, it is vital to remember that the two applications of petitioner's and Fetzer's are very different from
an ordinary litigation between Fetzer and petitioner in
a court of law. Each of them was before the Commission
as the representative of the public interest, the ascertainment of which is the expert function of the Communications Commission. It bears repeating that the application of both presumably received careful scrutiny by the
Commission before action was taken. Administrative
practice indicates that where there are conflicting applications, the Commission has granted some without hearing
where it thought the public interest best served by that
procedure, while setting others for hearing where the pub-

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

lic interest so demanded.'

J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

Fetzer made a clear showing

to the agency designated for the purpose by Congress that
the public interest would be served by the grant of its
application. The same agency found no basis in public
interest for Ashbacker's application. Certainly it is wholly
consonant with the scheme of the legislation and the powers given to the Commission that, upon denial of the
Ashbacker application after a finding that it would not and
Fetzer would serve the public interest, the burden be cast
on Ashbacker to show that it would serve the public interest better than would Fetzer. The Commission is
authorized by statute to modify a construction permit or
any license granted by it.2 This gives considerable scope
for adjusting the prior grant to Fetzer so as to give to the
public the benefits of reconciling both the Fetzer and the
Ashbacker applications, if the hearing should develop considerations not disclosed by the prior scrutiny of the Commission. Not only that, but the Commission, in its opinion
on hearing the Ashbacker complaint, construed its own
action in granting the Fetzer application to be conditional,
so as to have room for any action which it may find will
serve the public interest after the hearing on the AshFiscal
Year

Total No. of
ApplIcations
Consadered

Conflicting Applications
No. Granted No. Granted
Without
After
Hearing
Hearting
Number

1941 ................ 159
49
14
2
1942 ................ 142
52
1
2
1943 ..............
23
5
0
1
1944 .............. 39
14
2
1
1945 ................ 114
69
5
8
2 Sec. 312 (b): "Any station license hereafter granted under the
provisions of this Act or the construction permit required hereby and
hereafter issued, may be modified by the Commission either for a
limited time or for the duration of the term thereof, if in the judgment of the Commission such action will promote the public interest,
convenience, and necessity, or the provisions of this Act or of any
treaty ratified by the United States will be more fully complied with
." Cf. 47 Code Fed. Reg. § 1.402.

ASHBACKER RADIO CO. v. F. C. C.
327

FRANKFURTM, J., dissenting.

backer application. Such a practice of conditional grant
by the Commission ought not to be deemed outside the
range of the procedural discretion allowed to it by Congress.3
In this case, however, the restrictions of the hearing
granted to Ashbacker do make of it a mere formality, for
the Commission put upon Ashbacker the burden of establishing that the grant of a license to it would not interfere
with the simultaneous operations of the proposed Fetzer
station. But since the Commission had apparently already concluded that the simultaneous operation of the
two stations would result in "intolerable interference," its
order for a hearing seems to foreclose the opportunity that
should still be open to Ashbacker. It is entitled to show
the superiority of its claim over that of Fetzer, even
though the Commission, on the basis of its administrative
inquiry, was entitled to grant Fetzer the license in the
qualified way in which the statute authorized, and the
Commission made, the grant. In my view, therefore, the
proper disposition of the case is to return it to the Commission with direction that it modify its order so as to
assure an appropriate hearing of the Ashbacker application. It may be wise policy to require that the Communications Commission should give a public hearing for
all multiple applications before granting any. But to
my reading of the Communications Act, Congress has not
expressed this policy.

MR. JusTicE RurLEDGE joins in this opinion.

' Cf. Bers Broadcasting Co. (WEEU), Reading, Pennsylvania, 8
F. C. C. 427; The Evening News Association (WWJ), Detroit, Michigan, 8 F. C. C. 552; Merced Broadcasting Co. (KYOS), Merced,
California, 9 F. C. C. 118, 120.

