TUCKER v. TEXAS.
501

Statement of the Case.

tasteful to the owner, because of the public interest in
freedom of speech and religion, there is no need for the
application of such a doctrine here. Appellant, as we have
said, was free to engage in such practices on the public
highways, without becoming a trespasser on the company's
property.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE BURTON join in
this dissent.
TUCKER v. TEXAS.
APPEAL FROM THE COUNTY COURT OF MEDINA COUNTY,
TEXAS.

No. 87. Argued December 6, 1945.-Decided January 7, 1946.
1. A State can not, consistently with the freedom of religion and the
press guaranteed by the First and Fourteenth Amendments, impose
criminal punishment upon a person engaged in religious activities
and distributing religious literature in a village owned by the
United States under a Congressional program designed to provide
housing for workers engaged in national defense activities, where
the village is freely accessible and open to the public and has all
the characteristics of a typical American town, even though the
punishment is attempted under a state statute making it unlawful
for any "peddler or hawker of goods or merchandise" willfully to
refuse to leave the premises after having been notified to do so by
the owner or possessor thereof. P. 519.
2. Neither the Federal Housing Act nor the Housing Authority Regulations indicate a purpose to restrict freedom of religion and of the
press within villages such as the one here involved. P. 520.
3. A judgment of an intermediate state court sustaining a state statute challenged as repugnant to the Federal Constitution is reviewable here under § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, where such intermediate court is the highest court of the State in which a decision
in the case could be had. P. 518.
Reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a conviction for
violation of a state statute challenged as invalid under the
Federal Constitution.

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Mr. Hayden C. Covington, with whom Mr. Grover C.
Powell was on the brief, for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BLAcK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The appellant was charged in the Justice Court of
Medina County, Texas, with violating Article 479, Chap.
3 of the Texas Penal Code which makes it an offense for
any "peddler or hawker of goods or merchandise" wilfully
to refuse to leave premises after having been notified to
do so by the owner or possessor thereof. The appellant
urged in his defense that he was not a peddler or hawker
of merchandise, but a minister of the gospel engaged in
the distribution of religious literature to willing recipients.
He contended that to construe the Texas statute as applicable to his activities would, to that extent, bring it into
conflict with the Constitutional guarantees of freedom of
press and religion. His contention was rejected and he was
convicted. On appeal to the Medina County Court, his
Constitutional contention was again overruled. Since he
could not appeal to a higher state court this appeal under
§ 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. 344 (a) is properly before us. Largentv. Texas, 318 U. S. 418.
The facts shown by the record need be but briefly stated.
Appellant is an ordained minister of the group known as
Jehovah's Witnesses. In accordance with the practices
of this group he calls on people from door to door, presents his religious views to those willing to listen, and
distributes religious literature to those willing to receive
it. In the course of his work, he went to the Hondo Navigation Village located in Medina County, Texas. The
village is owned by the United States under a Congressional program which was designed to provide housing
for persons engaged in National Defense activities. 42
U. S. C., §§ 1521-1553. According to all indications the

TUCKER v. TEXAS.
517

519

Opinion of the Court.

village was freely accessible and open to the public and
had the characteristics of a typical American town. The
Federal Public Housing Authority had placed the buildings in charge of a manager whose duty it was to rent the
houses, collect the rents, and generally to supervise operations, subject to over-all control by the Authority. He
ordered appellant to discontinue all religious activities
in the village. Appellant refused. Later the manager
ordered appellant to leave the village. Insisting that the
manager had no right to suppress religious activities, appellant declined to leave, and his arrest followed. At the
trial the manager testified that the controlling Federal
agency had given him full authority to regulate the conduct of those living in the village, and that he did not
allow preaching by ministers of any denomination without a permit issued by him in his discretion. He thought
this broad authority was entrusted to him, at least in part,
by a regulation, which the Authority's Washington office
had allegedly promulgated. He testified that this regulation provided that no peddlers or hawkers could come
into or remain in the village without getting permission
from the manager.1 Since the Texas Court has deemed
this evidence of authority of the manager to suppress
appellant's activities sufficient to support a conviction
under the State statute, we accept their holding in this
respect for the purposes of this appeal.
The foregoing statement of facts shows their close
similarity to the facts which led us this day to decide in
Marsh v. Alabama, ante, p. 501, that managers of a
company-owned town could not bar all distribution of
religious literature within the town, or condition distribution upon a permit issued at the discretion of its man-

, 2The available Regulations of the Authority, of which we can take
judicial notice, Bowles v. United States, 319 U. S. 33, 35, do not show
a regulation of this kind.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

326 U. S.

agement. The only difference between this case and Marsh
v. Alabama is that here instead of a private corporation,
the Federal Government owns and operates the village.
This difference does not affect the result. Certainly
neither Congress nor Federal agencies acting pursuant to
Congressional authorization may abridge the freedom of
press and religion safeguarded by the First Amendment.
True, under certain circumstances it might be proper for
security reasons to isolate the inhabitants of a settlement,
such as Hondo Village, which houses workers engaged in
producing war materials. But no such necessity and no
such intention on the part of Congress or the Public
Housing Authority are shown here.
It follows from what we have said that to the extent
that the Texas statute was held to authorize appellant's
punishment for refusing to refrain from religious activities in Hondo Village it is an invalid abridgement of the
freedom of press and religion.
We think it only proper to add that neither the Housing
Act passed by Congress nor the Housing Authority Regulations contain language indicating a purpose to bar freedom of press and religion within villages such as the one
here involved. The case is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

It will be time enough to consider the constitutionality
of an Act of Congress that is claimed to be in defiance of
the First Amendment when such legislation by Congress
confronts us with the problem. The present case does not
present such a situation. Subject to this reservation, I

JOHN KELLEY CO. v. COMM'R.
517

Syllabus.

agree with the opinion of the Court for the reasons briefly
stated in Marsh v. Alabama, ante, p. 510. In the case of
communities established under the sponsorship of the
United States by virtue of its spending power, it would,
I should think, be even less desirable than in the case of
company towns to make the constitutional freedoms of
religion and speech turn on gossamer distinctions about
the extent to which land has been "dedicated" to public
uses.

The CHIEF JUSTICE,
BURTON, dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE REED

and MR. JUSTICE

The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE REED and MR. JUSTICE
BURTON construe the record in this case as showing a conviction for refusing, at the request of its authorized agent,
to leave premises which are owned by the United States
and which have not been shown to be dedicated to general use by the public. We, therefore, would affirm the
conviction for the reasons given in the dissent in Marsh
v. Alabama, ante, p. 511.
JOHN KELLEY CO. v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
NO. 36.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued October 11, 1945.-Decided January 7, 1946.
1. Two tax cases turned upon the question whether payments made
under certain corporate obligations were interest or dividends.
Although the facts were quite similar, the characteristics of the
obligations in question and the surrounding circumstances were of
such a nature that it was reasonably possible to reach the conclu*Together with No. 47, Talbot Mills v. Commimsioner of Internal
Revenue, on certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First

Circuit.

