JOHN KELLEY CO. v. COMM'R.
517

Syllabus.

agree with the opinion of the Court for the reasons briefly
stated in Marsh v. Alabama, ante, p. 510. In the case of
communities established under the sponsorship of the
United States by virtue of its spending power, it would,
I should think, be even less desirable than in the case of
company towns to make the constitutional freedoms of
religion and speech turn on gossamer distinctions about
the extent to which land has been "dedicated" to public
uses.

The CHIEF JUSTICE,
BURTON, dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE REED

and MR. JUSTICE

The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE REED and MR. JUSTICE
BURTON construe the record in this case as showing a conviction for refusing, at the request of its authorized agent,
to leave premises which are owned by the United States
and which have not been shown to be dedicated to general use by the public. We, therefore, would affirm the
conviction for the reasons given in the dissent in Marsh
v. Alabama, ante, p. 511.
JOHN KELLEY CO. v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
NO. 36.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued October 11, 1945.-Decided January 7, 1946.
1. Two tax cases turned upon the question whether payments made
under certain corporate obligations were interest or dividends.
Although the facts were quite similar, the characteristics of the
obligations in question and the surrounding circumstances were of
such a nature that it was reasonably possible to reach the conclu*Together with No. 47, Talbot Mills v. Commimsioner of Internal
Revenue, on certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First

Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

sion that the payments were interest to creditors in one case and
dividends to stockholders in the other case; and the Tax Court
so decided. Held the conclusions of the Tax Court in such cases
should be accepted. Pp. 526-529.
2. Section 1141 (c) (1) of the Internal Revenue Code, which authorizes the circuit court of appeals, upon reviewing a decision of the
Tax Court, to affirm it or, if the decision of the Tax Court "is not
in accordance with law," to modify or reverse it, leaves to the final
determination of the Tax Court all issues which are not clear-cut
questions of law. Dobson v. Commissioner, 320 U. S. 489, followed.

P. 526.
3. The words "interest" and "dividends," as used in the tax statutes,
are well understood and need no further definition. P. 530.
146 F. 2d 466, reversed; 146 F. 2d 809, affirmed.

No. 36. CERTIORARI, 325 U. S. 843, to review reversal
of a decision of the Tax Court, 1 T. C. 457, holding certain
payments by the petitioner to be interest on indebtedness
and deductible under § 23 (b) of the Internal Revenue
Code.
No. 47. CERTIoRi.AU, 325 U. S. 844, to review affirmance
of a decision of the Tax Court, 3 T. C. 95, holding certain
payments by the petitioner to be dividends on stock and
not deductible as interest under § 23 (b) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
Mr. Frank J. Albus for petitioner in No. 36. Mr. Melville F. Weston for petitioner in No. 47.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Acting Solicitor General Judson,Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark,
Jr., Mrs. Maryhelen Wigle and Mr. . Henry Kutz were on
the brief, for respondent.
Messrs. Joseph S. Clark and Marion N. Fisher filed a
brief in No. 36, as amici curiae, urging reversal.
Opinion of the Court by MR. JusTIcE REED, announced
by MR. JusTic

FawKFuRTEB.

These writs of certiorari were granted to examine the
deductibility as interest of certain payments which the

JOHN KELLEY CO. v. COMM'R.
521

Opinion of the Court.

taxpayer corporations made to holders of their corporate
obligations. Although the obligations of the two taxpayers had only one striking difference, the noncumulative
in one and the cumulative quality in the other of the payments reserved under the characterization of interest, the
Tax Court (formerly the Board of Tax Appeals, 56 Stat.
957; only its present name will be used herein) held that
the payments under the former, the Kelley Company case,
were interest and under the Talbot Mills were dividends.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the Tax Court in
the Kelley case and another circuit affirmed the Talbot
Mills decision.' On account of the diversity of approach
in the Tax Court and the reviewing courts, we granted
certiorari.
In the Kelley case, a corporation, all of whose common
and preferred stock was owned directly or as trustee by
members of a family group, was reorganized by authorizing
the issue of $250,000 income debenture bearer bonds, issued under a trust indenture, calling for 8% interest, noncumulative. They were offered only to shareholders of
the taxpayer but were assignable. The debentures were
payable in twenty years, December 31, 1956, with payment of general interest conditioned upon the sufficiency
of the net income to meet the obligation. The debenture
holders had priority of payment over stockholders but were
subordinated to all other creditors. The debentures were
redeemable at the taxpayer's option and carried the usual
acceleration provisions for specific defaults. The debenture holders had no right to participate in management.
Other changes not material here were made in the corporate structure. Debentures were issued to the amount
of $150,000 face value. The greater part, $114,648, was
issued in exchange for the original preferred, with six per
1I

T. C. 457; 146 F. 2d 466; cert. granted, 325 U. S. 843; Judicial

Code § 240 (a). 3 T. C. 95; 146 F. 2d 809; cert. granted, 325 U. S.
844; Judicial Code § 240 (a).

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

cent cumulative guaranteed dividends, at its retirement
price and the balance sold to stockholders at par, which
was eventually paid with sums obtained by the purchasers
from common stock dividends. Common stock was owned
in the same proportions by the same stockholders before
and after the reorganization.
In the Talbot Mills case the taxpayer was a corporation
which, prior to its recapitalization, had a capital stock of
five thousand shares of the par value of $100 or $500,000.
All of the stock with the exception of some qualifying
shares was held by members, through blood or marriage,
of the Talbot family. In an effort to adjust the capital
structure to the advantage of the taxpayer, the company
was recapitalized just prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year in question, by each stockholder surrendering fourfifths of his stock and taking in lieu thereof registered
notes in aggregate face value equal to the aggregate par
value of the stock retired. This amounted to an issue of
$400,000 in notes to the then stockholders. These notes
were dated October 2, 1939, and were payable to a specific
payee or his assignees on December 1, 1964. They bore
annual interest at a rate not to exceed 10% nor less than
2%, subject to a computation that took into consideration
the net earnings of the corporation for the fiscal year
ended last previous to the annual interest paying date.
There was, therefore, a minimum amount of 2% and a
maximum of 10% due annually and between these limits
the interest payable varied in accordance with company
earnings. The notes were transferable only by the owner's
endorsement and the notation of the transfer by the company. The interest was cumulative and payment might
be deferred until the note's maturity when "necessary by
reason of the condition of the corporation." Dividends
could not be paid until all then due interest on the notes
was satisfied. The notes limited the corporation's right
to mortgage its real assets. The notes could be subordi-

JOHN KELLEY CO. v. COMM'R.
521

Opinion of the Court.

nated by action of the Board of Directors to any obligation

maturing not later than the maturity of the notes. For
the fiscal year in question the maximum payment of 10%
was made on the notes.

The payments in question on corporate obligations were
for the years in the Kelley case, 1937, 1938 and 1939; in
the Talbot Mills case for the year 1940.

Both corpora-

tions deducted the payments as interest from their reports
of gross income under statutory sections and regulations
set out in the footnote.2 The applicable statutes and

regulations were identical for all periods. The Commissioner asserted deficiencies because the payments were
considered dividends and not interest.
There is not present in either situation the wholly use-

less temporary compliance with statutory literalness which
this Court condemned as futile, as a matter of law, in

Gregory v. Helvering, 293 U. S. 465. The demonstrated
2Internal Revenue Code:
"SEc. 23. Deductions from Gross Income. In computing net income

there shall be allowed as deductions:
"(b) Interest.-All interest paid or accrued within the taxable year
on indebtedness . . ."

"SEc. 115. Distributions by Corporations. (a) Definition of Dividend.-The term 'dividend' when used in this chapter (except in
section 203 (a) (3) and section 207 (c) (1), relating to insurance
companies) means any distribution made by a corporation to its shareholders, whether in money or in other property, (1) out of its earnings
or profits accumulated after February 28, 1913, or (2) out of the
earnings or profits of the taxable year ..
Treasury Regulations 103:
"Szc. 19.23 (b)-1. Interest.-Interest paid or accrued within the
year on indebtedness may be deducted from gross income ...
"So-called interest on preferred stock, which is in reality a dividend
thereon, cannot be deducted in computing net income. ..."
See Revenue Acts of 1936 and 1938, 49 Stat. 1648, 1659, 52 Stat.
447, 460, and Treasury Regulations 94, Art. 23 (b)-1, and 101, Art.
23 (b)-1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

possibility of sales by the holders of the obligations to
persons other than stockholders alone proves the differentiation. As material amounts of capital were invested
in stock, we need not consider the effect of extreme situations such as nominal stock investments and an obviously
excessive debt structure.
From the foregoing statements of facts, it appears that
the characteristics of all the obligations in question and
the surrounding circumstances were of such a nature that
it is reasonably possible for determiners to reach the conclusion that the secured annual payments were interest
to creditors in one case and dividends to stockholders in
the other case. In the Kelley case there were sales of the
debentures as well as exchanges of preferred stock for debentures, a promise to pay a certain annual amount, if
earned, a priority for the debentures over common stock,
the debentures were assignable without regard to any
transfer of stock, and a definite maturity date in the reasonable future. These indicia of indebtedness support the
Tax Court conclusion that the annual payments were
interest on indebtedness. On the other hand, in the Talbot
Mill8 case, the Tax Court found the factors there present
of fluctuating annual payments with a two per cent minimum, the limitation of the issue of notes to stockholders
in exchange only for stock, to be characteristics which
distinguish the Talbot Mills notes from the Kelley Company debentures. Upon an appraisal of all the facts, the
Tax Court reached the conclusion that the annual payments by Talbot Mills were in reality dividends and not
interest.
We think these conclusions should be accepted by the
Circuit Courts of Appeals and by ourselves. Judicial review of Tax Court decisions depends upon the Internal
Revenue Code, § 1141 (c) Powers (1). It reads:
"To affirm, modify, or reverse.-Upon such review, such
courts shall have power to affirm or, if the decision of the

JOHN KELLEY CO. v. COMM'R.
521

Opinion of the Court.

Board is not in accordance with law, to modify or to reverse the decision of the Board, with or without remanding
the case for a rehearing, as justice may require."
It is only recently that we gave careful consideration to
the problems of review of Tax Court decisions. Dobson
v. Commissioner, 320 U. S. 489. That opinion emphasized
that our interpretation of Congressional purpose, in enacting the statute, just quoted, for judicial review of Tax
Court decisions, was that Congress intended to leave to
the final determination of the Tax Court all issues which
were not clear-cut questions of law.
The provisions for review are the same now as they
were when enacted in 1926. Congress, and all others interested, were then well aware of the difficulties in drawing a line between questions of fact and questions of law.8
The legislation was upon a subject, the collection of the
revenue, in which federal administrative finality had been
given wide scope.' The Tax Court was originally estab-

lished to "secure an impartial and disinterested determination of the issues involved," 'so that the taxpayer and
the Government would have an independent review of
the position of either on tax demands before payment of
Compare Thayer, A Preliminary Treatise on Evidence at the

Common Law, Ch. V, with Holmes, The Common Law, pp. 123-129.

1 Holdsworth, History of English Law, 298, 312; Dickinson, Administrative Justice, c. III, p. 55:
"In truth, the distinction between 'questions of law' and 'questions
of fact' really gives little help in determining how far the courts will
review; and for the good reason that there is no fixed distinction.
They are not two mutually exclusive kinds of questions, based upon
a difference of subject-matter. Matters of law grow downward into
roots of fact, and matters of fact reach upward, without a break, into
matters of law. The knife of policy alone effects an artificial cleavage
at the point where the court chooses to draw the line between public
interest and private right."
' R. S. § 3224; 26 U. S. C. § 3653; Heiner v. Diamond Alkali Co.,

288 U. S. 502; Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236.
5 S. Rep. No. 398, 68th Cong., 1st Ses., p. 9.

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

the tax or foreclosure of an asserted deficiency. Two years
later its success was recognized by committee commendation and the enlargement of the finality of its decisions
from "prima facie evidence of the facts contained therein"
to reviewability only "if the decision of the Board is not
in accordance with law." 0 As to the mischief which the
limitation of the scope of judicial review was to cure, we
find only the words of the committee reports
Without
6H. Rep. No. 179, 68th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 8; 44 Stat. 110, § 1003
(b); H. Rep. No. 1, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 17; S.Rep. No. 52, 69th
Cong., 1st Sess., p. 34.
While establishing a complete system of review, it has all along
been recognized that the taxpayer could secure a jury trial of fact
issues, if he chose to pay and sue for recovery. S. Rep. No. 52, 69th
Cong., 1st Sess., p. 37. Dobson v. Commissioner,320 U. S. 489, 495.
TH. Rep. No. 1, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 19-20:
"Court review-Questions of fact and law.-The procedure is made
to conform as nearly as may be to the procedure in the case of an
original action in a Federal district court. Inasmuch as the complicated and technical facts governing tax liability require a determination by a body of experts, the review is taken directly to an
appellate court, just as, for instance, in the case of orders of the
Federal Trade Commission, and orders of the Secretary of Agriculture
under the packers and stockyards act. In view of the grant of exclusive power to the board finally to determine the facts upon which tax
liability is based, subdivision (b) of section 914 limits the review on
appeal to what are commonly known as questions of law. The court
upon review may consider, for example, questions as to the constitutionality of the substantive law applied, the constitutionality of
the procedure used, failure to observe the procedure required by law,
the proper interpretation and application of the statute or any regulation having the force of law, the existence of at least some evidence
to support the findings of fact, and the validity of any ruling upon the
admissibility of evidence (see subdivision (a) of section 907 and subdivision (b) of section 914). [§ 1003 (b) of the Act as passed.] The
court, therefore, may adequately control the action of the administrative officer or agency, but will not be burdened with the duty of
substituting its opinion for that of the board upon the evidence."
The reference to the Federal Trade Commission and to the Packers
and Stockyards Act was to show the choice of a circuit court of appeals for judicial review and was not intended to suggest the adoption
for the Tax Court review of any standard of scope of review.

JOHN KELLEY CO. v. COMM'R.
521

529

Opinion of the Court.

a clearer description by Congress of the intended line to
separate reviewability of the Tax Court decisions from
non-reviewability, courts must interpret the review statute, as best they can, to accomplish the declared Congressional purpose of adequate control of administrative
action without substituting judicial opinion for that of
the Tax Court upon the evidence. Note 7, supra.
The illustrations in the report, note 7, supra, are legal
questions without doubt, except the possibility that the
words "application of the statute or any regulation having
the force of law" may be thought to give a reviewing court
power to pass upon the Tax Court's conclusion from the
primary or evidential facts. So that, in the present cases,
it might be said to be a question of law as to whether the
primary facts adduced made the payments under consideration dividends or interest. But we think such conclusion gives inadequate weight to the purpose of the Tax
Court. The finality of the Tax Court's rulings was being
enlarged by the 1926 Act. The then Board was spoken of
as an impartial and independent tribunal of experts "for
the determination of tax liabilities as between the Government and the taxpayer." H. Rep. No. 1, 69th Cong.,
1st Sess., p. 17. There would hardly need to be experts
in tax affairs to decide questions of dates or amounts or
values or to calculate rates. Their usefulness lies primarily in their ability to examine relevant facts of business
to determine whether or not they come under statutory
language. Adequate reason for the use of the word "application" of course exists in situations where true legal
questions arise, as in whether an act applies to transfers
antecedent to its enactment or to income or estate taxes
from trusts or to situations which involve conflicts of law.
There is nothing in the context in whicb the word "application" is used which suggests to us that it should be given
its widest connotation.

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of BURTON, J.

326 U. S.

These cases now under consideration deal with well
understood words as used in the tax statutes-"interest"
and "dividends."
They need no further definition.
Equitable Life Assurance Society v. Commissioner, 321
U. S. 560; Deputy v. DuPont,308 U. S. 488,498. The Tax
Court is fitted to decide whether the annual payments
under these corporate obligations are to be classified as
interest or dividends. The Tax Court decisions merely
declare that the undisputed facts do or do not bring the
payments under the definition of interest or dividends
The documents under consideration embody elements of
obligations and elements of stock. There is no one characteristic, not even exclusion from management, which
can be said to be decisive in the determination of whether
the obligations are risk investments in the corporations
or debts. So-called stock certificates may be authorized by
corporations which are really debts, and promises to pay
may be executed which have incidents of stock. Such situations seem to us to fall within the Dobson rule."
This leads us to affirm the Talbot Mills decree and to
reverse the Kelley judgment.
It is so ordered.
MR. JusTcE BLACK concurs

in the result in No. 47. He

is of the opinion that No. 36 should be affirmed for the
reasons given by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 146 F. 2d
466.
MR. JUsTICe BURTON concurs in the result in the Kelley
case but dissents from the result in the Talbot Mills case
6 Dickinson, Administrative Justice, 312; Paul, Dobson v. Commissioner: The Strange Ways of Law and Fact, 57 Harv. L. R. 753, 826,
832, 840; Brown, Fact and Law in Judicial Review, 56 Harv. L. R.
899, 904.
9Compare Helvering v. F. & R. Lazarus Co., 308 U. S. 252, 255;
Wilmington Trust Cd. v. Helvering, 316 U. S. 164, 167; Helvering v.
Stock Yards Co., 318 U. S. 693, 700, 702; Equitable Society v. Commissioner, 321 U. S. 560, 563; Commissioner v. Sottish American Co.,
323 U. S. 119.

JOHN KELLEY CO. v. COMM'R.
521

Opinion of

RUTLEDGE, J.

on the grounds stated in the dissenting opinion of Magruder, J., in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE RUTIEDGE.

I think the judgments in both cases should be affirmed.
On the records presented, I can see no satisfactory basis
for deciding one case one way and the other differently.
And I agree with the Courts of Appeals that, on the substantially identical facts, the payments were dividends
and not interest.
In the first place, I do not believe that Congress has
authorized the Tax Court to make or the reviewing courts
to sustain directly conflicting determinations of tax liability in identical fact situations. Nor, in my opinion,
was this the purpose or effect of the Dobson decisions,
320 U. S. 489. So to regard them or the statute nullifies
the right to review expressly given by Congress. Moreover that view destroys the very uniformity which Dobson
sought, transferring the conflict of decision from the Courts
of Appeals back to the. Tax Court, by making the conflicting decisions of its sixteen divisions final.1 This affords relief to the taxpayer from judicial review and to
the courts from judicially reviewing. But it defies Congress' mandate for review and, what is more, perpetuates
chaos in the law.
IThe Internal Revenue Code provides that the chairman (now
presiding judge of the Tax Court, § 1100) may "from time to time
divide the Board into divisions of one or more members" and "a
majority of the members of the Board or of any division thereof shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of the business of the Board
or of the division, respectively." §§ 1103 (c), (d). By § 1118 (b)
the report of a division becomes the report of the Board within 30
days unless the chairman directs that it be reviewed by the Board.
Each of the two cases before us was decided by only one Tax Court
judge, a different judge in each case. See Griswold, The Need for a
Court of Tax Appeals (1944) 57 Harv. L. Rev. 1153. 1170-1172.

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of

RUTmGE,

J.

326 U. S.

All this presupposes, of course, that the records now here
present fact situations identical in all material respects.
That is true in my judgment. It is hardly necessary to
attempt demonstration. But, besides referring to the
opinions of the Courts of Appeals for the small details of
the facts and their minute differences,' it may be noted
that there was no question of credibility. Substantially
all of the evidentiary facts were stipulated in both cases.
Nor is there any finding in either case that the arrangements were a sham. Cf. Gregory v. Helvering, 293 U. S.
465. Apart from such considerations, the material facts
in my opinion were not substantially different in any
respect sufficient to support one ultimate conclusion,
whether labelled of "law," of "fact," or "mixed," for one
case and the opposite conclusion for the other.
That is true whether the final conclusion of "interest"
or "dividend" is to be drawn from a minute comparison
of, and effort to differentiate, the multitudinous microscopic details by which in both cases it was sought to convert stock into "debentures" or "registered notes," without
losing any of the stock's substantial advantages; or, on the
other hand, the final plunge of judgment is to be made
from wholesale weighing of the evidentiary facts. Neither
approach discloses factors of substantial difference in what
was done sufficient to sustain contrary judgments.
There were some highly technical differences in the two
types of "security" which were devised to replace the preexisting preferred stock issues. But in both instances the
original stock and the replacing security were closely held.
There was no substantial change in the distribution after
the "reorganization." The difference between the stock
and the substituted security was so small, in its effect upon
the holders' substantial rights, that for all practical purposes it was negligible. For example, a remote right to
sue to enforce the obligation, deferred in one case for 25
,146 F. 2d 466; 146 F. 2d 809.

JOHN KELLEY CO. v. COMM'R.
521

Opinion of

RUTLEDGE,

J.

years, took the place of the holder's right to share in the
corporation's assets on dissolution or winding up. Meanwhile "interest" was hooked in large part to net annual
earnings and was made entirely subject to the directors'
power to suspend payment until the ultimate maturity
date. The shortened story is that the preferred shareholders who went into the wash came out substantially,
for all purposes material to any tax determination and it
may be for practically all others, just about what they
were when they went in.
The Court indeed does not attempt to find a substantial
differentiating factor other than in the Tax Court's "appraisal of all the facts," in other words its ultimate conclusion. That is true as between the two cases and also
as affects the positions of the respective shareholders before and after the wash. Rather the opinion concedes that
in each case the circumstances were such that determiners
reasonably could conclude that the so-called annual payments were either interest or dividends. Hence, it seems
to follow, the conclusion may be drawn in squarely conflicting ways, if the Tax Court sees fit so to draw it; and
it is immaterial that no factor of substantial difference
is or can be pointed out.
One might entertain the view that in a close situation
the Tax Court's judgment should be accepted whatever
way the die were cast, although reviewing courts might
differ on the direction. But it would not follow, and in
my judgment should not, that they are powerless when
the throw is in opposite directions at the same time. When
this occurs, in my opinion a "clear-cut" question of law
is presented, rising above the rubric of "expert administrative determination." The more apt characterization
would be "expert administrative fog."
I think the Courts of Appeals and we are bound to review such cases; they by plain mandate of § 1141 (c) (1)
of the Code, we by that section (see Bingham'8 Trust v.

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of RrnMXE, J.

326 U. S.

Commissioner, 325 U. S. 365) and the provision of our
rules making conflict between circuits "special and important reason" for granting certiorari. Rule 38-5 (b).
Conflict is not removed simply because judgments of the
Courts of Appeals judicially formalize the contrary ultimate, but nevertheless administrative, conclusions of the
Tax Court. When no facts can be pointed to which are
sufficient to distinguish Tax Court decisions in legal effect, except that the Tax Court has decided differently
in two cases, the Courts of Appeals and we are bound by
law and by our duty to exercise a sound discretion in
review to resolve the conflict.
Another reason convinces me that both judgments
should be affirmed. What has been said applies to conflicting determinations of the Tax Court, whatever the
particular line which is to be drawn and regardless of its
general location. But in these cases I think that as a
matter of law the line should not be located where the Tax
Court has placed it.
Tax liability should depend upon the subtle refinements
of corporate finance no more than it does upon the niceties
of conveyancing.8 Sheer technicalities should have no
more weight to control federal tax consequences in one
instance than in the other. The taxing statute draws the
line broadly between "interest" and "dividend." This requires one who would claim the interest deduction to
bring himself clearly within the class for which it was
intended.' That is not done when the usual signposts
between bonds and stock are so obliterated that they become invisible or point equally in both directions at the
same time.
a Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S. 106, 117-118; Smith v. Shaughnessp, 318 U. S. 176, 180.
' Interstate Transit Lines v. Commissioner, 319 U. S. 590, 593; see
also New Colonial Co. v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 435, 440; Deputy v.
du Pont, 308 U. S. 488, 493; McDonald v. Commissioner, 323 U. S.
57, 60.

JOHN KELLEY CO. v. COMM'R.
521

Opinion of

RuTLEDGE,

J.

"Dividend" and "interest," "stock" and "bond," "debenture" or "note," are correlative and clearly identifiable
conceptions in their simpler and more traditional exemplifications. But their distinguishing features vanish
when astute manipulation of the broad permissions of
modern incorporation acts results in a "security device"
which is in truth neither stock nor bond, but the half-breed
offspring of both. At times only the label enables one
to ascertain what the manipulator intended to bring forth.
But intention clarified by label alone is not always legally
effective for the purpose in mind.' And there is scarcely
any limit to the extent or variety to which this kind of
intermingling of the traditional features of stock and
bonds or other forms of debt may go, as the books abundantly testify.' The taxpayer should show more than a
label or a hybrid security to escape his liability. He
should show at the least a substantial preponderance of
facts pointing to "interest" rather than "dividends."
Something more is at stake in these cases than nice distinctions between "stock" and "bonds," on the one hand,
or between ultimate conclusions of "fact" and "law" or
"mixed fact and law," on the other, just as was true in the
conveyancing cases. The border cutting across one set
of normally opposing conceptions may be deliberately obscured and made into a no man's land as readily as that
involved in the other. When this happens, the final link
In re Fechheimer Fishel Co., 212 F. 357, 360; Matter of Collier,
112 Misc. 70, 182 N. Y. S. 555; Cass v. Realty Securities Co., 148 App.
Div. 96, 100, 132 N. Y. S. 1074, affirmed, 206 N. Y. 649, 99 N. E.
1105; see Commissioner v. &hmoll Fils Associated, Inc., 110 F. 2d
611.
6 See Hansen, Hybrid Securities: A Study of Securities Which Combine Characteristics of Both Stocks and Bonds (1936) 13 N. Y. U.
L. Q. 407; Uhlman, The Law of Hybrid Securities (1938) 23 Wash.
U. L. Q. 182; Jewel Tea Co. v. United States, 90 F. 2d 451, 452-453.

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
326 U. S.

Syllabus.

in the chain of judgment is decisive, whatever its label.'
If the ultimate conclusion of the Tax Court or its divisions
can be made in exactly opposing ways, and must be left
undisturbed, without substantial differentiating facts, or
when hybrid arrangements bear tax indicia equally with
marks of non-taxability, not only is the statutory review
nullified. The right of taxpayers to be treated with equal
justice before the law is denied.
MASON v. PARADISE IRRIGATION

DISTRICT.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
NINTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 306: Submitted December 4, 1945.-Decided January 7, 1946.
1. A plan for composition of debts of an irrigation district under
Chapter IX of the Bankruptcy Act provided that the holders of
outstanding bonds were to be paid in cash 52.521 cents on each
dollar of principal, exclusive of interest, the cash to be supplied
through a loan from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, which
was to receive new or refunding 4 per cent bonds in the principal
amount of its loan. Creditors owning not less than 92 per cent in
amount of the bonds accepted the plan, consented to the filing of
the petition, and deposited their bonds under the plan. The R. F. C.
did not advance the funds to the irrigation district but purchased
the bonds at the composition figure and registered them in its name.
The old bonds so acquired remained obligations of the irrigation
district, were held by the R. F. C. as security for its advances, and
were to be exchanged under the plan for 4 per cent refunding bonds
in the full amount of its cash advances. The R. F. C., as holder of
about 92 per cent of the bonds, approved the plan prior to the
filing of the petition. There was full disclosure to the security
holders and to the court. The bankruptcy court, finding that all
of the outstanding bonds were of one class, that the requisite perThe legal element is not eliminated merely because it appears in
"a molecular combination of fact and law which defies separation."
Berry v. Irving Place Corp., 52 F. Supp. 875, 881. It may be the dominant element in the combination. When it is, minutiae of factual
difference should not govern result or sustain conflicting outcomes.

