MAGNUM CO. v. COTY.

'159

Syllabus.

MAGNUM IMPORT COMPANY, INC., v. COTY.
COHN, TRADING AS MACLEN IMPORT COMPANY, v. COTY.
BAUM ET AL., TRADING AS BEAUTEX COMPANY, v. COTY.
IVORY NOVELTIES TRADING COMPANY, INC., v.
COTY.
MAGNUM IMPORT COMPANY, INC., v. HOUBIGANT, INC.
PETITIONS FOR ORDERS, PENDING APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIORARI, SUSPENDING DECREES OF THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 978, 979, 980, 982, 981. Argued on return to rule to show
cause April 16, 17, 1923.-Decided May 7, 1923.
1. Ui1der Jud. Code, § 262, this Court has power to suspend or
modify an interlocutory or final decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, which is reviewable under § 240 by certiorari, pending
the disposition of a petition filed here for the issuance of that
writ. P. 162.
2. The jurisdiction to bring up cases from the Circuit Court of
Appeals by certiorari was given for the two purposes of securing
uniformity of decision in the circuits and of having questions of
importance decided by this Court when desirable in the public
interest,-not for the purpose of giving the defeated party another
hearing. P. 163.
3. An application to suspend a judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, pending disposition of a petition for certiorari here,
should be first made-to that court, which is free to determine it
upon its own view of the likelihood of a certiorari being granted
and of the balance of convenience. P. 163.
4. If the application be refused by that court, a stay will be granted
here, pending the application for certiorari, only upon an extraordinary showing, and, even after certiorari has been granted,
only in a clear case and upon a decided balance of convenience. P. 164.
Petitions denied.

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

APPLICATIONS

262 U. S.

for orders to suspend interlocutory de-

crees of the Circuit Court of Appeals pending petitions
for certiorari.
Mr. CharlesH. Tuttle, with whom Mr. Isaac Reiss and
Mr. William J. Hughes were on the briefs, for petitioners.
Mr. Asher Blum, with whom Mr. Hugo Mock was on
the briefs, for Coty, respondent.
Mr. George S. Hornblower, with whom Mr. Lindley
M. Garrison and Mr. Raoul E. Desvernine vere on the
brief, for Houbigant, Inc., respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
All these cases involve the question how far the purchasers of perfumes made by manufacturers whose perfumes have gained a high reputation with the public may
use the name and trade-mark of such manufacturers in rebottling or repacking and selling them when, as claimed
by the manufacturers and owners of the trade-mark, the
process of rebottling and repacking injures the perfumes
and impairs the value of the trade-mark and the reputation of the manufacturers. In a case presenting a similar
question, to wit, Prestonettes,Inc. v. Coty, 260 U. S. 720,
this Court granted a writ of certiorari, and applications in
the above entitled cases are now pending. They are also
before us on petitions praying that this Court issue orders
suspending the operation of the decrees of the Circuit
Court of Appeals and that, pending the applications for
certiorari in this Court, we restore the temporary injunctions of the District Court which the Circuit Court of
Appeals enlarged.
The District Court found that the defendants in all
these cases were infringing the rights of the complainants in their trade-marks and the use of their trade names,

MAGNUM CO. v. COTY.
Opinion of the Court.

159

but thought it sufficient to permit the defendants to continue their rebottling and repacking of complainants'
perfumes and powders if in the form in which resold, the
bottles or boxes bore a legend reciting all the facts and
not giving any more prominence to the fact that these
were complainants' perfumes or powders than to the fact
that they had been rebottled and repacked by defendants.
The Circuit Court of Appeals found that such rebottling
and repacking as done by defendants so impaired the delicate odors and qualities of the perfumes and powders that
it unlawfully injured the right of the complainants in
their trade-marks and business, that such rebottling and
repacking and resale with the use of the original manufacturer's trade-mark and name were a violation of a
criminal statute of the State of New York, that the proposed inspection of defendants' rebottling and repacking
with a view to preserving the excellence of the perfumes
and powders would entail such expense and burden upon
complainants as to be impracticable, and that the only
complete and satisfactory remedy to which complainants were entitled was an injunction against the use of
the complainants' trade-marks or names upon the rebottled or repacked articles for sale, and the temporary
injunctions granted by the District Court were accordingly modified and the case was remanded to the District
Court for final hearing. Applications were then made to
the Circuit Court of Appeals to stay the mandate and to
grant an application upon proper bond to suspend its
modification of the District Court's orders until applications for certiorari and motions for a suspending order
could be made to this Court. After full consideration,
these motions were denied by the Circuit Court of Appeals, its mandate has gone down and the injunctions as
enlarged by it are now in force. Meantime these applications for certiorari have been made here, and in ad-51826*-23-----11

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

vance of our consideration of them in clue course, motions
for the suspension of the orders of the Circuit Court of
Appeals have been presented to us on affidavits and heard,
and are now to be decided.
It is objected for Houbigant, Inc., one of the respondents
in these petitions for certiorari, that this Court has no
jurisdiction to suspend the operation of the order or decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals pending a petition for certiorari and before it is granted. The cases of In re Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 482, In re Glaser, 198 U. S. 171, and
McIntire v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 504, are cited to this point.
They are wholly without application. The first two were
cases pending in inferior courts which, under the Constitution and the statutes of the United States, could never,
by any possibility, come within the jurisdiction of this
Court. The third case was one of an application to a Circuit Court for the issuing of a mandamus to the register
of the land office to compel him to issue a final certificate
of purchase of-land to the relator. This Court found that,
under the statute, the Circuit Court was not given original
power to issue a mandamus in such a case when not necessary or ancillary to the exercise of its jurisdiction otherwise conferred.
Under § 262 of the Judicial Code this Court is given
power to issue all writs not specifically provided for by
statute which may be necessary for the exercise of its
jurisdiction, and agreeable to the usages and principles
of law. Here the jurisdiction of this Court to grant the
application for certiorari already made and pending is
conferred by § 240 of the Judicial Code. That section
provides that in any case, civil or criminal, in which the
judgment or decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
made final, it shall be competent for this Court by certiorari upon the petition of a party thereto to bring the
case here for review as if it had come by error or appeal.
By § 128 of the Judicial Code, as amended by the Act of

MAGNUM CO. v. COTY.
159

Opinion of the Court.

Jan. 28, 1915, c. 22, § 2, 38 Stat. 803, the judgment or
decree of the Circuit Courts of Appeals is made final in
trade-mark cases. Hence, if in its discretion, this Court
conceives that upon the showing made it should order the
suspension or modification of a judgment or decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, interlocutory or final, to preserve or secure a status of the case for the full and satisfactory exercise of its reviewing power over it, it may
make the necessary order of suspension or modification
upon such terms as seem equitable upon the filing of the
petition for certiorari and pending its disposition. So
much on the question of the power.
The question how the Court should exercise this power
next arises. The jurisdiction to bring up cases by certiorari from the Circuit Courts of Appeals was given for
two purposes, first to secure uniformity of decision between those courts in the nine circuits, and second, to
bring up cases involving questions of importance which
it is in the public interest to have decided by this Court
of last resort. The jurisdiction was not conferred upon
this Court merely to give the defeated party in the Circuit Court of Appeals another hearing. Our experience
shows that eighty per cent. 6f those who petition for certiorari do not appreciate these necessary limitations upon
our issue of the writ. When, therefore, after the petition
is filed and before its submission, an application is made
for a suspension of the judgment or decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, a heavy burden rests on the applicant.
The petition should, in the first instance, be made to
the Circuit Court of Appeals which with its complete
knowledge of the cases may with full consideration
promptly pass on it. That court is in a position to judge
first whether the case is one likely under our practice to
be taken up by us on certiorari, and second, whether the
balance of convenience requires a suspension of its decree
and a withholding of its mandate. It involves no dis-

OCTOBER TERM. 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

respect to this Court for the Circuit Court of Appeals to
refuse to withhold its mandate or to suspend the operation of its judgment or decree pending application for
certiorari to us. If it thinks a question involved should
be ruled upon by this Court, it may certify it. If it does
not certify, it may still consider that the case is one in
which a certiorari may properly issue, and may in its discretion facilitate the application by withholding the mandate or suspending its decree. This is a matter however
wholly within its discretion. If it refuses, this Court requires an extraordinary showing, before it will grant a
stay of the decree below pending the application for a
certiorari, and even after it has granted a certiorari, it
requires a clear case and a decided balance of convenience
before it will grant such stay. These remarks, of course,
apply also to applications for certiorari to review judgments and decrees of the highest courts of States.
Coming now to the circumstances presented on the
inquiry before us, we find nothing to justify our granting
the motion. It is clear that the Circuit Court of Appeals
gave full consideration to a similar motion and with a
much fuller knowledge than we can have, denied it. As
we have said, we require very cogent reasons before we
will disregard the deliberate action of that court in such a
matter. We have read the affidavits and we do not find
that the petitioners have, in the light of what we have
said, made a case for the suspension of the order. On the
contrary, the weight of the evidence is clearly with the
respondents.
The petitions are denied.

