WILLARD CO. v. UNITED STATES.
447

Opinion of the Court.

do so would be not to decide a judicial controversy, but
to assume a position of authority over the governmental
acts of another and co-6qual department, an authority
which plainly we do not possess.
No. 24, Original, dismissed.
No. 962 affirmed.
WILLARD, SUTHERLAND & COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 209. Argued May 1, 2, 1923.-Decided June 4, 1923.
1. A contract for the purchase of coal by the Government at a stated
price per ton which does not require the Government to take, or
limit its demand to, any ascertainable quantity, is unenforceable,

for lack of consideration and mutuality. P. 492.
2. Such a contract, however, becomes valid and binding to the extent to which it is performed, and a party who, abandoning an
earlier protest, voluntarily delivers coal under the contract, is limited to the contract price, and cannot recover more from the United
States. P. 494.
56 Ct. Clms. 413, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims, denying the appellant's claim for the difference between the
market price of coal furnished the Navy and the price
stated in a contract.

Mr. Thomas Renaud Rutter and Mr. Gibbs L. Baker,
with whom Mr. Karl Knox Gartner, Mr. John A. Selby
and Mr. Clarence A. Miller were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Rufus S. Day, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This suit was brought to recover $3,650, being $3.65 per
ton for 1,000 tons of coal furnished the Navy. Appellant

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

claims that it is entitled to the market price at the time
of delivery, $6.50 per ton. The United States claims that
appellant was bound by contract to furnish it for $2.85
per ton. The Court of Claims made findings of fact, and
concluded that appellant was not entitled to recover.
In the spring of 1916, the Navy Department, being desirous of making contracts for coal for the ensuing fiscal
year ending June 30, 1917, issued its invitation for bids in
the form of a schedule containing general specifications
and conditions and printed forms of proposals for deliveries in stated quantities at ten different ports or stations.
Included therein was a form of proposal for the furnishing
of 600,000 tons of coal to be delivered at Hampton Roads,
Va. On one of these forms, appellant submitted its bid
for coal of the kind and qtfality described: "to be delivered . . . at such times and in such quantities as may
be required during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1917
• . . 10,000 tons steaming coal . . . for delivery
Hampton Roads, Va., per ton, $2.85

...

$28,500."
The general specifications printed on the form contained the following provisions:
"Quantities Estimated "-" It shall be distinctly understood and agreed that it is the intention of the contract
that the contractor shall furnish and deliver any quantity
of the coal specified which may be needed for the naval
service at the places named during the period from July
1, 1916, to June 30, 1917, irrespective of the estimated
quantities stated, the Government not being obligated to
order any specific quantity. The estimated quantities
have been arrived at from records of previous purchases.
While they represent the best information obtainable as
to the quantities which will be required . . . they are
estimated only, and are not to be considered as having
any bearing upon the quantity which the Government
may order under the contract."

WILLARD CO. v. UNITED STATES.
489

Opinion of the Court.

"Deliveries "-" Deliveries to be made promptly, and
in lots or quantities specified . . . on call and at the
prices accepted by the Department,
"Reservations "-" The Government reserves the right
. .
to reject any or all bids and in accepting any bids
the right is also reserved to make such distribution of
tonnage among the different bidders for suitable and acceptable coals for the naval service as will be considered
to be for the best interests of the Government."
"Notes "-" Bids on less than the entire quantity of
coal specified under each class will be received and considered. Such partial bids must state the amount of tonnage it is proposed to furnish, subject to the other conditions of these specifications."
Appellant was notified of the acceptance of its proposal, and on June 5, 1916, a contract was made containing the portions of the bid and specifications above referred to.
March 26, 1917, appellant was informed by the Department that the quantity estimated in its contract would be
exceeded by ten per cent. Appellant answered that when
it had furnished 10,000 tons, it would consider its obligation under the contract discharged, and that it was
prepared to furnish the balance. The Department cited
the provisions of the contract as authority for requiring
the additional tonnage; stated that the same requirement
was made of other contractors, and expressed the hope
that it would not be necessary to resort to extreme measures to accomplish compliance. Later the Department
informed appellant that the steamer Kennebec had been
directed to coal with it, and that the quantity required
was 2,180 tons. Appellant answered that the balance
due under the contract was 560 tons, which it was ready
to supply at any time, and that this amount was all that
it was able to furnish. The Department insisted that the
full cargo assigned to the Kennebec must be furnished.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

Appellant reiterated its position. June 9, the Department advised appellant that failure to supply the tonnage
ordered would necessitate immediate purchase in the open
market for its account. June 12, appellant replied that
it had arranged to supply the Kennebec the full quantity
required, and that it was "doing this under protest which
can be straightened out later." June 14, appellant wrote
that it would agree to supply the 2,180 tons ordered, with
the understanding that no further assignments would be
made to it; that this was 1,620 tons more than it was
obligated to deliver; that this excess would be furnished
under protest, reserving the right to take the proper steps
to recover the difference between the current market price
and the contract price; it asked confirmation from the
Department and stated thht on receipt thereof it would
furnish the coal.
June 15, the Department acknowledged appellant's
letter of the 14th, but, as found by the Court of Claims,
"not acceding to any proposition therein contained,"
directed appellant:
"Your company will please supply Kennebec with fifteen hundred sixty tons coal, or such quantity as may
be necessary to bring the total tonnage delivered by you
under contract twenty-six four ninety-two up to total
estimated quantity plus ten per cent, or -total eleven
thousand tons. Balance Kennebec cargo will be obtained
elsewhere."
1. The language of the contract indicates that the parties intended and understood that, depending on its own
choice, the Department might call for more or less than
10,000 tons of coal. The forms of bid indicated a purpose to contract in advance for the year's supply and
not to buy coal in the open market; they informed bidders that the stated quantities were estimated on the basis
of previous purchases and were not to be taken as exact
figures, and such forms were suitable to enable-the De-

WILLARD CO. v. UNITED STATES.
489

Opinion of the Court.

partment to award one contract for the total estimated
quantity or to distribute its requirements among a number of producers as it might determine. Appellant's bid
mentioned specifically 10,000 tons, (which was only onesixtieth of the estimated total for Hampton Roads).
It provided that, "It shall be distinctly understood and
the contractor will furnish and deagreed that . .
liver any quantity of the coal specified [i. e., of the kind
and quality specified] which may be needed . . . irrespective of the quantities stated, the Government not
. ";
being obligated to order any specific quantity
and thaj the stated quantities "are estimated only, and
are not to be considered as having any bearing upon the
quantity which the Government may order under the
The right is also reserved to make
contract
such distribution of tonnage among the different bidders
as will be considered for the best interests of the
Government."
There is nothing in the writing which required the Government to take, or limited its demand, to any ascertainable quantity. It must be held that, for lack of
consideration and mutuality, the contract was not enforceable. Cold Blast TransportationCo. v. Kansas City
Bolt & Nut Co., 114 Fed. 77, 81; Fitzgerald v. First
National Bank, id. 474, 478; A. Santaella & Co. v. Otto
F. Lange Co., 155 Fed. 719, 721, et seq.; Golden Cycle
Mining Co. v. Rapson Coal Mining Co., 188 Fed. 179,
182, 183.
United States v. Purcell Envelope Co., 249 U. S. 313,
is not inconsistent with the conclusion that the contract
here was not enforceable. There, the making and acceptance of the bid consummated the contract, and it was
construed to bind the company to furnish and the Department to take the envelopes and wrappers specified
which the Department would need during the period covered by the contract.

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

2. While the contract at its inception was not enforceable, it became valid and binding to the extent that it
was performed. St. Louis Hay & Grain Co. v. United
States, 191 U. S. 159, 163; Hartman v. Butterfield Lumber Co., 199 U. S. 335, 338; United States v. Andrews &
Co., 207 U. S. 229, 243.
There was no duress or compulsory taking. The last
order was given, as prior orders had been given, with
reference to the contract. The failure of the Department in the correspondence directly to decline the proposal made by appellant in its letter of June 14 has no
significance in favor of appellant. The Department did
not accept or in any manner acquiesce. Immediately its
order was given for 1,560 tons, making a total of 11,000
tons, the exact amount it claimed it was entitled to call
for under the contract. The correspondence shows that
the Department declined to accept appellant's view and
refused to entertain its requests or proposals to leave the
matter of price open. Appellant failed further to object
and delivered the coal. It is not important whether it was
persuaded that the Department's interpretation of the
writing was correct or, to avoid controversy, decided to
fill the order. Its earlier protest is of no avail (see Savage
v. United States, 92 U. S. 382), and it must be held voluntarily to have accepted the order for the additional
1,000 tons, and to have furnished it at the price specified
in the contract. Charles Nelson Co. v. United States,
261 U. S. 17. By the conduct and performance of the
parties, the contract was made definite and binding as
to the 11,000 tons ordered and delivered according to
its terms.I
The judgment of the Court of Claims is affirmed.
'See Insurance Co. v. Dutcher, 95 U. S. 269, 273; Topliff v. Topliff,
122 U. S. 121, 131; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Omaha, 230 U. S. 100,
118; Nelson v. Ohio Cultivator Co., 188 Fed. 620, 623; Bunday v.
Huntington, 224 Fed. 847, 854; Bransford v. Regal Shoe Co., 237
Fed. 67, 69.

