McCARTHY v. ARNDSTEIN.
Counsel for Parties.

McCARTHY, UNITED STATES MARSHAL FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, v.
ARNDSTEIN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 404. Argued April 11, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.
1. A disclosure made by a witness not amounting to an actual admission of guilt or of incriminating facts, does not deprive him
of his privilege of stopping short in his testimony whenever it
may fairly tend to incriminate him. P. 358.
2. This rule applies to the involuntary examination of a bankrupt.
Id.
3. Where the only issue presented by the Marshal's return, or
passed upon by the District Court, in a habeas corpus proceeding, was whether the relator, who had been imprisoned for refusal
to answer questions propounded in'his examination as a bankrupt,
upon the ground that they might incriminate him, had waived his
privilege in that regard; and contentions as to whether some of
the questions were such that the answers could not have incriminated him and as to whether his claim of privilege was not in
good faith were first made on appeal to this Court from the order
of the District Court discharging him in the habeas corpus, held,
that this Court was not called upon to scrutinize the voluminous
record of his examination, and decide, for the first time, whether
such contentions were justified, especially as the District Judge,
in the contempt proceeding had expressed his opinion that answers
to the questions might furnish incriminating information. P. 360.
Affirmed.
APPEAL

from an order of the District Court discharg-

ing the appellee, in habeas corpus.
Mr. Saul S. Myers and Mr. Walter H. Pollak, Special
Assistants to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Lindley M. Garrison were on
the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. W. J. Fallon for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

262 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from an order of the District Court
sustaining a writ of habeas corpus and discharging the
appellee from custody. It involves the same proceeding
which was before this Court at an earlier stage in Arndstein v. McCarthy, 254 U. S. 71 and 379.
Arndstein, having been adjudicated an involuntary
bankrupt and called before a Special Commissioner for
examination as to his assets under ยง 21a of the Bankruptcy Act, refused to answer four hundred and fortyseven of the questions which were asked him, asserting
his constitutional privilege upon the ground that to do
so might tend to degrade and incriminate him. The district judge, having "no doubt that the answers might
furnish information which would render him liable to
prosecutions in the federal courts for concealment of
assets," denied a motion to punish him for contempt.
After his examination, however, Arndstein filed, without
objection, sworn schedules of his assets and liabilities,
showing only one item of property, namely, a bank deposit of $18,000. Thereupon, the district judge, being
of opinion that Arndstein thus asserted not only that he
had this bank deposit but also that he had no other
property, and had thereby become subject to examination
as to his property, ordered him to answer four hundred
and twenty-six of the former questions. Being recalled
for further examination he again refused to answer them,
upon the same ground as before. He was then adjudged
to be guilty of contempt of court and committed to the
custody of the Marshal for confinement in jail so long as
he persisted in his refusal to answer.
He thereupon presented to the District Court a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, alleging that he was restrained of his liberty without due process and in violation

McCARTHY v. ARNDSTEIN.
355

Opinion of the Court.

of the Federal Constitution. This petition was held to
be insufficient, and the writ was refused. Upon an appeal
by Arndstein this Court held that as the schedules did
not amount to an admission of guilt or furnish clear proof
of crime, they did not constitute a waiver of his right to
stop short whenever he could fairly claim that to answer
might tend to incriminate him; and the order of the District Court was accordingly reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with the
opinion. Arndstein v. McCarthy, supra, pp. 72, 73. In a
supplemental memorandum (p. 379) it was added that
this decision only required the District Court to issue
the writ and proceed as usual, and that if proper reasons
existed for holding Arndstein not shown by the petition
they might be set up in the return for consideration.
Thereafter the District Court, in accordance with the
mandate of this Court, vacated its former order and issued
the writ of habeas corpus; to which the Marshal made
return, exhibiting a transcript of the entire proceedings
before the Commissioner. Aside from general denials of
the illegality of Arndstein's commitment the only ground
set up in the return as a reason for holding him was that,
after being notified by the Commissioner of his privilege,
he had, before refusing to answer the questions in issue,
testified of his own accord, without invoking any privilege, to the very matters with which these questions were
concerned, thereby waiving his privilege upon further examination concerning them. Upon a hearing on the petition and return, the District Court was of opinion that,
although in certain answers made without objection Arndstein had denied that he had any stocks or bonds in his
possession or under his control at any time during the
preceding year, the conclusion to be drawn from the decision of this Court in reference to the schedules was that
his denials or partial disclosures as a witness did not terminate his privilege so as to deprive him of the right to

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

refuse to testify further about his property, and that he
was at liberty to cease disclosures, even though some had
been made, whenever there was just ground to believe the
answers might tend to incriminate him; and it accordingly sustained the writ and discharged him from custody. The Marshal, by reason of the constitutional question involved, has appealed directly to this Court. Jud.
Code, ยง 238; Boske v. Comingore, 177 U. S. 459, 465;
Collins v. Miller, 252 U. S. 364, 365, 371; Arndstein v.
McCarthy, supra, p. 72.
We find no error in the order of the District Court:
1. The opinion of this Court upon the former appeal
was not based upon the ground, as the Marshal in effect
contends, that schedules filed by a bankrupt are so essentially different from evidence given by him that, whatever
their disclosures, they cannot constitute a waiver of his
privilege against incrimination when he is called for compulsory examination under the Bankruptcy Act. On the
contrary, the sworn schedules were, impliedly at least,
assimilated to evidence given by the bankrupt as a witness, the ground upon which they were held not to have
waived his privilege against subsequent incrimination being thus stated (p. 72):" The schedules standing alone
did not amount to an admission of guilt or furnish clear
proof of crime and the mere filing of them did not constitute a waiver of the right to stop short whenever the
bankrupt could fairly claim that to answer might tend to
incriminate him. See Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591,
597; Foster v. People, 18 Michigan, 266, 274; People v.
Forbes, 143 N. Y. 219, 230; Regina v. Garbett, 2 C. & K.
474, 495."
The four cases thus cited related to testimony given by
witnesses and the limit upon their right to stop disclosures. In Brown v. Walker, this Court said that "if the
witness himself elects to waive his privilege

.

.

.

and

discloses his criminal connections, he is not permitted to

McCARTHY v. ARNDSTEIN.
355

359

Opinion of the Court.

stop, but must go on and make a full disclosure "; in Foster v. People, the court, while holding that a witness who
has voluntarily admitted his guilt of a criminal offense is
not protected from further disclosures on the same subject, said that if he has not actually admitted criminating
facts, he "may unquestionably stop short at any point,
and determine that he will go no further in that direction "; in People v. Forbes, it was held that a witness by
answering questions exonerating himself in general terms
from all connection with a criminal transaction, does not
thereby waive his right to remain silent when it is thereafter sought to draw from him circumstances which might
form another link in the chain of facts capable of being
used to his peril; and in Regina v. Garbett, it was held
that it makes no difference in the right of a witness to
protection from incriminating himself that he has already
answered in part, he being "entitled to claim the privilege at any stage of the inquiry."
In short, it is apparent not only from the language of
the former opinion but from its citations that this Court
applied to the non-incriminating schedules the rule in the
cases cited, namely, that where the previous disclosure
by an ordinary witness is not an actual admission of guilt
or incriminating facts, he is not deprived of the privilege
of stopping short in his testimony whenever it may fairly
tend to incriminate him. And although there is some
conflict of authority as to the application of this rule, we
see no reason for departing from its recognition in the
former opinion, and think that it is the sound rule which
should be applied to the involuntary examination of a
bankrupt where he is practically in the position of a witness under cross-examination. And since we find that
none of the answers which had been voluntarily given by
Arndstein, either by way of denials or partial disclosures,
amounted to an admission or showing of guilt, we are of

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U.S.

opinion that he was entitled to decline to answer further
questions when so to do might tend to incriminate him.
2. The Marshal also contends that in many instances
the questions which Arndstein refused to answer were
plainly of such a character that the answers could not
have incriminated him, and that his whole testimony
shows that he was not making his claim of privilege in
good faith, but largely in obedience to suggestions of his
counsel, who in some instances claimed the privilege for
him. It is, however, a sufficient answer to this contention
that no such reasons for denying the writ were set up in
the Marshal's return, or, so far as it appears, brought to
the attention of the District Court or ruled upon by it.
And in such case we are not called upon, on appeal, to
examine, as with a microscope, the multitudinous questions in issue, involved in an unduly protracted examination, containing many vain and futile repetitions, much
of which does not appear to have had any relation to a
discovery of assets of the bankrupt but was of such character as to suggest that the underlying purpose was the
discovery of evidence to support the charge of grand larceny for which Arndstein had been indicted in the state
court; or to determine, as original questions in this Court,
matters not in issue under the pleadings in the District
Court or determined by that court.
Furthermore, the district judge, in ruling in the bankruptcy proceedings on the first motion to punish Arndstein for contempt, had, as shown, specifically stated that
he had no doubt that answers to these questions might
furnish incriminating information. There was clearly no
abuse of discretion in this ruling which would justify us
in reviewing it under the writ of habeas corpus. And it
may be added, that on the first appeal this Court also
stated that it was "impossible to say from mere consideration of the questions propounded, in the light of the
circumstances disclosed, that they could have been an-

HOUSTON COAL CO. v. U. S.
355

Argument for the United States.

swered with entire impunity." Arndstein v. McCarthy,
supra, p. 72.
The order of the District Court sustaining the writ
and discharging Arndstein from custody is accordingly
Affirmed.
HOUSTON COAL COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 365. Argued April 10, 1923.-Decided June 4, 1923.
Section 10 of the Lever Act grants jurisdiction to the District
Court of an action against the United States to recover the difference between what the Government has paid the plaintiff as just
compensation for property requisitioned under that section, and
what the plaintiff, alleging that the payment was accepted under
protest, because of duress, and with express reservation of the right
to demand more, claims to be just compensation. P. 364.
Reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court dismissing,
for want of jurisdiction, an action under the Lever Act,
to recover the difference between what the Government
paid the plaintiff, as just compensation in full, for property requisitioned, and a larger amount which, plaintiff
alleged, was the true value.
Mr. A. Julius Freiberg and Mr. Ira Jewell Williams,
with whom Mr. W. A. Geoghegan was on the briefs, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
The jurisdiction conferred upon the District Courts by
ยง 10 of the Lever Act does not extend to suits brought

