OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

complete remedy at law by which a taxpayer may recover
the amount of an illegal tax paid by him under protest.
Our attention has been called to several North Carolina
cases and statutes bearing upon this contention. But
the statute mainly relied Upon is a recent one which
appears not to have been construed and applied by the
highest court of the State. In the absence of such decision, we cannot say the remedy at law is plain and adequate. Dawson v. Kentucky Distilleries & Warehouse
Co., 255 U. S. 288, 296; Wallace v. Hines, 253 U. S. 66,
68; Shaffer v. Carter,252 U. S. 37, 47; Union PacificR. R.
Co. v. Weld County, 247 U. S. 282; Davis v. Wakelee, 156
U. S. 680, 688. We have therefore passed upon the
merits.
Affirmed.
COLLINS v. LOISEL, UNITED STATES MARSHAL
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 880.

Argued May 4, 1923.-Decided June 4, 1923.

1. The provision of the Fifth Amendment against double jeopardy
does not prevent the commitment of a person for extradition on
new affidavits after he has been discharged on others identical in
form and substance. P. 429.
2. Under the extradition treaty with Great Britain, a fugitive may
be arrested a second time upon a new complaint charging the
same crine, when he has been discharged by the magistrate on the
first complaint or the first complaint has been withdrawn. P. 429.
3. Refusal of the State Department to issue a warrant of extradition
because of the pendency of habeas corpus proceedings, does not
bar further proceedings for the same cause on a new complaint.
P. 430.
4. A discharge in habeas corpus based on mere irregularities in extradition proceedings, does not operate as res judicata against a
new proceeding for the same offense. P. 430.

COLLINS v. LOISEL.
426

Opinion of the Court.

5. The pendency of habeas corpus proceedings relating to one charge
in extradition, does not deprive the magistrate of jurisdiction to
entertain an application for arrest on other charges or render
invalid his warrant issued on such application. P. 430.
6. The crime for which a fugitive is extradited need not be specifically set forth in the magistrate's order of commitment, if
sufficiently identified by the magistrate's finding and his certificate
to the Secretary of State. P. 431.
7. By established practice, the warrant of extradition issued by the
Secretary of State likewise identifies the crime. P. 431.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court dismissing a petition for habeas corpus. See post, 730.
Mr. J. Zach Spearing, with whom Mr. J. Kemp Bartlett and Mr. Guion Miller were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Robert H. Marr appeared for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is the third appeal by Collins in habeas corpus
proceedings instituted to prevent his extradition to British India. After the decision in Collins v. Miller, 252
U. S. 364, the District Court dismissed the application
for habeas corpus so far as the commitment was based
on the charge of obtaining property by false pretenses
from Mahomed Alli Zaimel Ali Raza, and remanded Collins to the custody of Loisel, the marshal. The judgment
of the District Court discharged the prisoner, so far as the
commitment was based on charges of obtaining property
by false pretenses from Pohoomul Brothers and from
Ganeshi Lall & Sons. The ground of the discharge, stated
in the judgment, was that Collins had been remanded to
await further proceedings on these charges, to the end
that he might be given the opportunity of introducing
evidence at a preliminary examination under the law of
Louisiana; that no further examination had been held;

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

that the prosecution on those affidavits had been definitely abandoned; and that other new affidavits had been
filed by the British Consul General. In this judgment
the British Consul General acquiesced. Collins appealed.
The judgment was affirmed in Collins v. Loisel, 259 U. S.
309.
On those new affidavits, referred to in the judgment,
apparently Collins was again committed to await extradition; the papers were transmitted for action to the Department of State with the magistrate's certificate; but,
owing to the fact that proceedings were still pending in
the District Court, the Department refused to issue the
warrant of extradition. Thereafter, while the Loisel Case
was pending in this Court, and while Collins was being
held in custody to answer on the charge of obtaining property from Mahomed Alli Zaimel Ali Raza, a third set of
affidavits were lodged against the prisoner by the British
Consul General before the same committing magistrate.
They were in form and substance identical Aith those in
which Collins had been previously charged with obtaining property by false pretenses from Pohoomul Brothers
and from Ganeshi Lall & Sons and discharged by the District Court. Alleging that the affidavits were identical
with those first filed on which he had been so discharged,
Collins moved, before the magistrate, to quash the new
affidavits. His motion was overruled; and, after due
hearing, an order was entered by the magistrate again
committting Collins to be held for extradition on these
charges. Then he filed, in the same District Court, this
petition for a writ of habeas corpus and certiorari. Judgment was entered therein in December, 1922, dismissing
this second petition for a writ of habeas corpus; Collins
was remanded to the custody of the marshal; and this
appeal was taken under ยง 238 of the Judicial Code. After
hearing counsel for appellant, this Court on May 4, 1923,
ordered that the judgment below be affirmed; and that

COLLINS v. LOISEL.
426

Opinion of the Court.

the mandate issue forthwith. Because of the importance
of the questions presented, the reasons for this decision
are now stated.
Collins contended that commitment on the new affidavits, after discharge in proceedings based on others identical in form and substance, was a violation of the Fifth
Ameihdment and of the Treaty with Great Britain. The
constitutional provision against double jeopardy can have
no application unless a prisoner has, theretofore, been
placed on trial. See Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S.
100, 126. The preliminary examination of one arrested
on suspicion of a crime is not a trial; and his discharge
by the magistrate upon such examination is not an acquittal. Commonwealth v. Rice, 216 Mass. 480. People
v. Dillon, 197 N. Y. 254, 256. Even the finding of an indictment, followed by arraignment, pleading thereto, repeated continuances, and eventually dismissal at the instance of the prosecuting officer on the ground that there
was not sufficient evidence to hold the accused, was held,
in Bassing v. Cady, 208 U. S. 386, 391, not to constitute
jeopardy. Likewise it has been consistently held under
the treaties with Great Britain and other countries, that
a fugitive from justice may be arrested in extradition proceedings a second time upon a new complaint charging
the same crime, where he was discharged by the magistrate on the first complaint or the complaint was withdrawn.' The precise question appears not to have been
passed upon by this Court in any case involving international extradition. But in Bassing v. Cady, supra, the
rule was applied to a case of interstate rendition. Protection against unjustifiable vexation and harassment in'6 Ops. Atty. Gen. 91; 10 Ops. Atty. Gen. 501; In re MacdonneU,
11 Blatchf. 170, 179; In re Kelly, 26 Fed. 852; Fergua, Petitioner,
30 Fed. 607; Ex parte Schorer, 195 Fed. 334; See also 1 Moore on
Extradition, pp. 457-464; 1 Hyde, International Law, p. 596; Mtdler's Case, 5 Phila. 289; In re Farez, 7 Blatchf. 345.

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

cident to repeated arrests for the same alleged crime must
ordinarily be sought, not in constitutional limitations or
treaty provisions, but in a high sense of responsibility
on the part of the public officials charged with duties in
this connection. The proceedings before the committing
magistrate on the first and on the second set of affidavits,
and the action of the Department of State on the latter,
were no bar to the proceedings on the third set of affidavits
here involved. The filing by the British Consul General
of these new affidavits was clearly justified.
The discharge of Collins on the first petition for habeas
corpus, so far as it related to the charge of obtaining property from Pohoomul Brothers and from Ganeshi Lall &
Sons does not operate as res judicata. It is true that the
Fifth Amendment in providing against double jeopardy,
was not intended to supplant the fundamental principle
of res judicata in criminal cases, United States v. Oppenheimer, 242 U. S. 85; and that a judgment in habeas
corpus proceedings discharging a prisoner held for preliminary examination may operate as res judicata. But
the judgment is res judicata only that he was at the time
illegally in custody, and of the issues of law and fact necessarily involved in that result.2 The discharge here in
question did not go to the right to have Collins held for
extradition. It was granted because the proceedings on
which he was then held had been irregular and the British
Consul General, instead of undertaking to correct them,
had concluded to abandon them, and to file the charges
anew by another set of affidavits.
The contention was also made that, as the arrest on the
new affidavits after discharge on the old was an independent proceeding, and Collins was then being held on
an entirely different charge under review by this Court
'Compare Ex parte Milburn, 9 Pet. 704, 710; In re White, 45
Fed. 237; United States v. Chung Shee, 71 Fed. 277; 76 Fed. 951;
Ex parte Gagliardi, 284 Fed. 190.

COLLINS v. LOISEL.
426

Opinion of the Court.

in the Loisel Case, the magistrate was without jurisdiction. There was here no attempt to interfere by the second proceeding with the custody of Collins on the first.
The fact that Collins was in the custody of the court did
not render invalid the second warrant. It would merely
prevent withdrawal of the prisoner from the custody of
the court by means of the execution of a second warrant.
In re Macdonnell, 11 Blatchf. 170, 177, 178. Compare
Ponzi v. Fessenden, 258 U. S. 254, 260, 265. The pendency of habeas corpus proceedings, relating to the charge
involved in the Loisel Case, supra, did not deprive the
magistrate of jurisdiction to entertain this application for
arrest on other charges. Stallings v. Splain, 253 U. S.
339, 342.
It was further contended that the magistrate's order of
commitment was insufficient, because it adjudged that
Collins be held for extradition "for trial on the charges
pending against him in the Chief Presidency Magistrate's
Court at Bombay "; and that, since he could legally be
tried there only on the charge for which he was extradited, the order of commitment must specifically set forth
that crime. United States v. Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407.
The contention is unsound. The order must, of course,
be interpreted as limited by the finding therein made,
that the evidence produced "justify his commitment on
the charge of having obtained property by false pretenses." The certificate which the magistrate issued
thereon to the Secretary of State identifies the charge as
those set forth in the two new affidavits. By established
practice, the warrant of extradition issued by the Secretary of State likewise identifies the crime with which the
prisoner has been charged and for the trial of which the
prisoner is delivered up. Moreover, it may be assumed
that the British Government will not try appellant upon
charges other than those upon which the extradition is
allowed. Kelly v. Griffin, 241 U. S. 6, 15.
Affirmed.

