182

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

CITY OF TRENTON v. STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
JERSEY.

No. 430. Argued March 2, 1923.-Decided May 7, 1923.
1. A State has power, and it is its duty, to control and conserve
its water resources for the benefit of all its inhabitants. P. 185.
2. Diversion of Waters from the sources of supply for this use, is
a legitimate function of the State, which may be left to private
enterprise subject to state regulation, or be performed directly, or
be delegated either to bodies politic created for the purpose or to
the State's municipalities. P. 185.
3. In the absence of state constitutional provisions safeguarding it
to them, municipalities have no inherent right of self-government
which is beyond the legislative control of the State, but are merely
departments of the State, with powers and privileges such as
the State has seen fit to grant, held and exercised subject to its
sovereign will. P. 187.
4. The power of a State over the rights and properties of cities
held and used for "governmental purposes," is unrestrained by
the Contract Clause, or the Fourteenth Amendment, of the Federal Constitution. P. 188.
5. The distinction between a municipality as an agent of the State
for governmental purposes, and as an organization to care for
local needs in a private or proprietary capacity, affords no
ground for the application of those constitutional restraints against
a State in favor of its own municipality. P. 191.
6. The City of Trenton, as successor to a grant made by New
Jersey to a private corporation, claimed a perpetual right, unburdened by license fee or other charge, to divert all the water
that might be required for the use of the City or its inhabitants
from the Delaware River, and resisted a charge, imposed under
c. 252, Laws N. J., 1907, for water diverted beyond the amount
being legally diverted when the act was passed and in excess of
a per capita maximum prescribed by the act. Held, that the City
could not invoke the Contract Clause or the Fourteenth Amendment, even assuming that the private corporation might have done
so if its rights had not passed to the City, and that, in view
of previous decisions, the City's contention to the contrary did
not present a substantial federal question. Pp. 185, 192.
Writ of error to review 117 At. 158, dismissed.

TRENTON v. NEW JERSEY.
182

Opinion of the Court.

ERRoR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of New
Jersey, affirmed by the Court of Errors and Appeals, in
favor of the State, in its action to recover license fees
from the City of Trenton, for water diverted from the
Delaware River.

Mr. A. V. Dawes, with whom Mr. Chas. E. Bird was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William Newcorn, Assistant Attorney General,
with whom Mr. Thomas F. McCran, Attorney General,
of the State of New Jersey, was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The State of New Jersey recovered judgment against
the City of Trenton for $14,310.00, in an action brought
in the State Supreme Court. The judgment was affirmed
by the Court of Errors and Appeals, and is here on writ
of error.
The State's right to recover depends upon the validity
of an act of the legislature (c. 252, Laws of 1907). The
City asserts that this act offends against the contract
clause of the Constitution of the United States, and that
it takes property owned by the City in its private or
proprietary capacity for public use without just compensation and without due process of law in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment. The act provides that:
"Every municipality, corporation or private person
now diverting the waters of streams or lakes with outlets for the purpose of a public water-supply shall make
annual payments on the first day of May to the State
Treasurer for all such water hereafter diverted in excess
of the amount now being legally diverted; provided, however, no payment shall be required until such legal diversion shall exceed a total amount equal to one hundred

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

(100) gallons daily, per capita for each inhabitant of
the municipality or municipalities supplied, as shown by
the census of one thousand nine hundred and five."
The City claims the right to take from the Delaware
River all the water that it requires without limitation
as to quantity and without license fee for any part thereof, and that such right was acquired by the President
and Directors of the Trenton Water Works (hereinafter
called the water company) by grant direct from the
State March 24, 1852, and that the City acquired this
right by purchase from the water company. Briefly, the
basis of the City's claim is as follows: By an Act of February 29, 1804, the President and Directors of the Trenton Water Works were created a body politic and corporate. They and their successors and assigns were made
capable of disposing of water to such as might apply for
the same for such annual rent and under such restrictions as they might think proper, and they were authorized to lay and extend their water mains through
the streets of the City. Certain springs constituted the
company's source of supply, and by reason of increase of.
population ceased to' be adequate. March 24, 1852, a
supplement to the above mentioned act was passed, by
which the company was authorized to take the water required either in whole or in part from the Delaware River.
Later, March 2, 1855, an act was passed, authorizing the
City to purchase the whole or a majority of the shares
of the capital stock of the water company, and the City
purchased all of the stock. Thereafter, an Act of March
1, 1859, required the company to convey unto " the inhabitants of the city of Trenton " all the real estate,
works and property and all the corporate powers, franchises and privileges of the company, and this conveyance
was duly made.
If the provision of the Act of 1907 imposing the license
fee is valid as against the City, the judgment is right.

TRENTON v. NEW JERSEY.
182

Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Errors and Appeals held that it was valid;
that the State under its police power might impose a
license fee as specified in the act, and that this does not
deprive the City of any contractual or property right.
The State undoubtedly has power, and it is its duty, to
control and conserve the use of its water resources for
the benefit of all its inhabitants, and the Act of 1907 was
passed pursuant to the policy of the State to prevent
waste and to economize its water resources. Decision of
the Court of Errors and Appeals in this case, 117 Atl.
158; McCarter v. Hudson Water Co., 70 N. J. Eq. 695,
701, 702, affirmed by this Court in 209 U. S. 349, 355;
Collingswood v. Water-Supply Commission, 84 N. J. L.
104, 110; Cobb v. Davenport, 32 N. J. L. 369, 378. The
only way the City could acquire the right to take the
water of the Delaware River was by grant from the State
or by authorized purchase or condemnation from one to
whom the right had been granted by the State. State
v. Jersey City, 94 N. J. L. 431, 433. The power to determine the conditions upon which waters may be so diverted is a legislative function. The State may grant
or withhold the privilege as it sees fit. Assuming in favor
of the City, that its grantor received a perpetual right,
unburdened by license fee or other charge, to divert all
the water required for the use of the City and its inhabitants, does it follow that the State as against the City is
bound by contract and is without power to impose a
license fee as provided in the act?
The relations existing between the State and the water
company were not the same as those between the State
and the City. The company was organized and carried
on its business for pecuniary profit. Its rights and property were privately owned and therefore safeguarded by
the constitutional provisions here sought to be invoked
by the City against the legislation of the State. The City
is a political subdivision of the State, created as a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

venient agency for the exercise of such of the governmental powers of the State as may be entrusted to it.
The diversion of waters from the sources of supply for
the use of the inhabitants of the State is a proper and
legitimate function of the State. This function may be
left to private enterprise, subject to regulation by the
State; it may be performed directly; or it may be delegated to bodies politic created for that purpose, or to the
municipalities of the State. Power to own, maintain and
operate public utilities, such as waterworks, gas and electric plants, street railway systems, public markets, and the
like is frequently conferred by the States upon their cities
and other political subdivisions. For the purpose of carrying on such activities, they are given power to hold and
manage personal and real property.
As said by this Court, speaking through Mr. Justice
Moody, in Hunter v. Pittsburgh,207 U. S. 161, 178, 179:
"The number, nature and duration of the powers conferred upon these corporations and the territory over
which they shall be exercised rests in the absolute discretion of the State. Neither their charters, nor any law conferring governmental powers, or vesting in them property to be used for governmental purposes, or authorizing
them to hold or manage such property, or exempting
them from taxation upon it, constitutes a contract with
the State within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
The State, therefore, at its pleasure may modify or withdraw all such powers, may take without compensation
such property, hold it itself, or vest it in other agencies,
expand or contract the territorial area, unite the whole
or a part of it with another municipality, repeal the
charter and destroy the corporation. All this may be
done, conditionally or unconditionally, with or without
the consent of the citizens, or even against their protest.
In all these respects the State is supreme, and its legislative body, conforming its action to the state constitu-

TRENTON v. NEW JERSEY.
182

Opinion of the Court.

tion, may do as it will, unrestrained by any provision of
The power
.
the Constitution of the United States.
is in the State and those who legislate for the State are
alone responsible for any unjust or oppressive exercise
of it."
In New Jersey it has been held that within the limits
prescribed by the state constitution, the legislature may
delegate to municipalities such portion of political power
as they may deem expedient, withholding other powers,
and may withdraw any part of that which has been delegated. Van Cleve v. Passaic Valley Sewerage Commissioners, 71 N. J. L. 183, 198.
In the absence of state constitutional provisions safeguarding it to them, municipalities have no inherent right
of self government which is beyond the legislative control
of the State.1 A municipality is merely a department of
the State, and the State may withhold, grant or withdraw
powers and privileges as it sees fit. However great or
small its sphere of action, it remains the creature of the
State exercising and holding powers and privileges subject to the sovereign will. See Barnes v. District of Columbia, 91 U. S,540, 544, 545.
In Mount Pleasantv. Beckwith, 100 U. S.514, 524, 525,
it was held that where a municipal corporation is legislated out of existence and its territory annexed to other
corporations, the latter, unless the legislature otherwise
provides, become entitled to all its property and immunities. In the opinion it is said (pp. 524, 525):
"Institutions of the kind, whether called cities, towns,
or counties, are the auxiliaries of the State in the important business of municipal rule; but they cannot have
the least pretension to sustain their privileges or their
existence upon anything like a contract between themselves and the legislature of the State, because there is
Cf. 1 Dillon Municipal Corporations, 5th ed., ยง 98, p. 154, et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

not and cannot be any reciprocity of stipulation between
the parties, and for the further reason that their objects
and duties are utterly incompatible with everything partaking of the nature of compact."
The power of the State, unrestrained by the contract
clause or the Fourteenth Amendment, over the rights and
property of cities held and used for" governmental purposes" cannot be questioned. In Hunter v. Pittsburgh,
supra, 179, reference is made to the distinction between
property owned by municipal corporations in their public
and governmental capacity and that owned by them in
their private or proprietary capacity, and decisions of this
Court which mention that distinction are referred to.' In
none of these cases was any power, right or property of
a city or other political subdivision held to be protected
by the contract clause or the Fourteenth Amendment.
This Court has never held that these subdivisions may invoke such restraints upon the power of the State.'
In East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co., 10 How. 511,
533, 534, 536, it appeared that for many years a franchise
to operate a ferry over the Connecticut River belonged
to the town of Hartford; that upon the incorporation of
'Commissioners v. Lucas, 93 U. S. 108, 115; Meriwether v. Garrett,
102 U. S.472, 518, 530; Essex Public Road Board v. Skinkle, 140
U. S. 334, 342; New Orleans v. New Orleans Water Works Co., 142
U. S.79, 91; Covington v. Kentucky, 173 U. S.231, 240; Worcester
v. Worcester Consolidated Street Ry. Co., 196 U. S. 539, 551; Monterey v. Jacks, 203 U. S. 360.
'Some state cases holding that the state legislature is not restrained
by federal constitutional provisions: St. Louis v. Shields, 52 Mo. 351,
354; Police Jury of Bossier v. Corporation of Shreveport, 5 La. Ann.
661, 665; Trustees of Schools v. Tatman, 13 Ill. 27; Board of Education v. Aberdeen, 56 Miss. 518; Darlington v. City of New York,
31 N. Y. 164, 193. See contra: Town of Milwaukee v. City of
Milwaukee, 12 Wis. 93, 109; Grogan v. San Francisco, 18 Cal. 590,
612, 613; Mount Hope Cemetery v. Boston, 158 Mass. 509, 519;
Spaulding v. Andover, 54 N. H. 38, 56; Ellerman v. McMains, 30 La.
Ann. 190.

TRENTON v. NEW JERSEY.
182

Opinion of the Court.

East Hartford, the legislature granted to it one-half of
the ferry during the pleasure of the General Assembly,
and that subsequently, after the building of a bridge
across the river, the legislature discontinued the ferry.
It was held that this was not inconsistent with the contract clause of the Federal Constitution. The reasons
given in the opinion (pp. 533, 534) support the contention of the State here made that the City cannot possess
a contract with the State which may not be changed or
regulated by state legislation.
In Worcester v. Worcester Consolidated
Street Ry. Co.,
196 U. S. 539, 548, it was held that the obligation of the
street railway Company to the city to pave and repair
streets occupied by it, based on accepted conditions of a
municipal ordinance granting right of location, is not
private property beyond the legislative control of the
State, and that state legislation taxing the company and
thereby relieving it from its obligation to the city to pave
and repair such streets was not void as violating the contract clause of the Federal Constitution. In the opinion
it is said (pp. 548, 549):
"The question then arising is, whether the legislature,
in the exercise of its general legislative power, could abrogate the provisions of the contract between the city and
the railroad company with the assent of the latter, and
provide another and a different method for the paving
and repairing of the streets through which the tracks of
the railroad company were laid under the permit of their
extended location. We have no doubt that the legislature
of the Commonwealth had that power. A municipal corporation is simply a political subdivision of the State, and
exists by virtue of the exercise of the power of the State
through its legislative department. The legislature could
at any time terminate the existence of the corporation
itself, and provide other and different means for the
government of the district comprised within the limits of

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

the former city. The city is the creature of the State."
Citing East Hartfordv. HartfordBridge Co., 10 How. 511,
533, 534; United States v. Railroad Company, 17 Wall.
322, 329; New Orleans v. Clark, 95 U. S.644, 654; Commissioners of Laramie County v. Commissioners of Albany County, 92 U. S. 307; Commissioners v. Lucas,
93 U. S.108, 114.
In Pawhuska v. Pawhuska Oil & Gas Co., 250 U. S. 394,
399, it was held that a legislative grant to a city of the
power to regulate rates to be charged to the city and its
inhabitants by a gas company might be withdrawn by the
State from the city and conferred upon a commission, and
that thereby no question was presented under the contract clause of the Federal Constitution. In the opinion,
after a statement of the issue, it is said (pp. 397, 398):
"Thus the whole controversy is as to which of two existing agencies or arms of the state government is authorized for the time being to exercise in the public interest
a particular power, obviously governmental, subject to
which the franchise confessedly was granted. In this no
question under the contract clause of the Constitution of
the United States is involved, but only a question of local
law, the decision of which by the Supreme Court of the
State is final. . . . In New Orleans v. New Orleans
Water Works Co., 142 U. S.79, where a city, relying on
the contract clause, sought a review by this court of a
judgment of a state court sustaining a statute so modifying the franchise of a water works company as to require
the city to pay for water used for municipal purposes,
to which it theretofore was entitled without charge, the
writ of error was dismissed on the ground that no question
of impairm~ent within the meaning of the contract clause
was involved." '
'Cf. Williams v. Eggleston, 170 U. S. 304, 310; Mason v. Missouri,
179 U. S. 328, 335.

TRENTON v. NEW JERSEY.
182

Opinion of the Court.

The distinction between the municipality as an agent
of the State for governmental purposes and as an organization to care for local needs in a private or proprietary
capacity has been applied in various branches of the law
of municipal corporations. The most numerous illustrations are found in cases involving the question of liability
for negligent acts or omissions of its officers and agents.
See Harris v. District of Columbia, 256 U. S. 650, and
cases cited. It has been held that municipalities are not
liable for such acts and omissions in the exercise of the
police power, or in the performance of such municipal
faculties as the erection and maintenance of a city hall
and courthouse, the protection of the city's inhabitants
against disease and unsanitary conditions, the care of the
sick, the operation of fire departments, the inspection of
steam boilers, the promotion of education and the administration of public charities. On the other hand, they
have been held liable when such acts or omissions occur
in the exercise of the power to build and maintain bridges,
streets and highways, and waterworks, construct sewers,
collect refuse and care for the dump. where it is deposited.'
Recovery is denied where the act or omission occurs in
the exercise of what are deemed to be governmental powers, and is permitted if it occurs in a proprietary capacity.
The basis of the distinction is difficult to state, and there
'See Winona v. Botzet, 169 Fed. 321, 332, et seq., and cases cited.
See also: Bratman v. Canby, 119 Minn. 396 (recovery permitted
for gas explosion where city furnished gas to inhabitants); Pettengill
v. Yonkers, 116 N. Y. 558, 565 (recovery permitted for injury sustained by excavation in street to lay mains); Watson v. Needham,
161 Mass. 404, 411 (damages recovered for breach of contract by
water commissioners to furnish water for plaintiff's boiler, resulting
in injury to vegetables in greenhouse heated thereby); Brown v.
Salt Lake City, 33 Utah, 222, 234 (city held liable for death by
drowning in conduit forming a part of city water works system).
These cases and others that might be cited serve in general to illustrate the course of decision.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

is no established rule for the determination of what belongs to the one or the other class. It originated with the
courts. Generally it is applied to escape difficulties, in
order that injustice may not result from the recognition
of technical defenses based upon the governmental character of such corporations.6 But such distinction furnishes no ground for the application of constitutional restraints here sought to be invoked by the City of Trenton
against the State of New Jersey. They do not apply as
against the State in favor of its own municipalities. We
hold that the City cannot invoke these provisions of the
Federal Constitution against the imposition of the license
fee or charge for diversion of water specified in the state
law here in question. In view of former opinions of this
Court, no substantial federal question is presented. Pawhuska v. Pawhuska Oil & Gas Co., supra, and cases cited.'
The writ of error is dismissed.

CITY OF NEWARK v. STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
JERSEY.

No. 469.

Argued March 2, 1923.-Decided May 7, 1923.

1. The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment cannot be invoked by a city against its State. P. 196. Trenton v.
New Jersey, ante, 182.
2. So held, where it was claimed that the method adopted in c. 252,
Laws of New Jersey, 1907, for fixing maximum amounts of water
divertible without payment of license fees to the State, worked
'Cf. 1 Dillon Municipal Corporations, 5th ed., ยง 110, p. 183.
'See decisions per curiam: Chicago v. Dempcy, 250 U. S. 651;
Michigan ex rel. Groesbeck v. Detroit United Ry., 257 U. S. 609;
Chicago v. Chicago Railways Co., id. 617; Avon v. Detroit United
Ry., id. 618; Edgewood v. Wilkinsburg & East Pittsburgh Street Ry.
Co., 258 U. S. 604; Sapulpa v. Oklahoma Natural Gas Co., id. 608.

