HART v. KEITH EXCHANGE.
266

Statement of the Case.

showing New Hampshire Avenue as extending farther
south even than at present the existing street system was
adopted and recognized New Hampshire Avenue as the
dividing line as well for accretions as for the fixed land.
The result is that both the bill and the cross bill must
be dismissed.
Decree reversed.
Bill and cross bill dismissed.
HART v. B. F. KEITH VAUDEVILLE EXCHANGE
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 763.

Argued May 2, 3, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.

1. A bill in the District Court setting up a claim of federal right
should not be dismissed for lack of jurisdiction because the claim is
wanting in merit, if it be not wholly frivolous. P. 273.
2. Plaintiff, by a bill brought before the decision of this Court in
Federal Base Ball Club v. National League, 259 U. S. 200, sought
an injunction and damages, under the Anti-Trust Act of 1890,
against an alleged conspiracy of theatre owners and of corporations
engaged, like himself, in the business of getting contracts for vaudeville actors to perform throughout the United States, and of acting
as their manager and personal representative, alleging that the
business involved contracts not only for travel of performers from
State to State and from abroad, but also for transportation of vaudeville acts, including performers, scenery, music, costumes, etc., resulting in a constant stream of commerce from State to State, in
which, he claimed, the apparatus transported was not a mere
incident, but sometimes more important than the performers. Held,
that the claim that the case came within the Anti-Trust Act was not
frivolous, and that the bill should not have been dismissed by the
District Court for want of jurisdiction. P. 274.
Reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing,
for want of jurisdiction, a bill for an injunction and damages, brought under the Anti-Trust Act..

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U.S.

Mr. Martin W. Littleton, with whom Mr. Louis B.
Eppstein, Mr. Laurence H. Axman and Mr. Ira W. Hirshfield were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. George Wharton Pepper, with whom Mr. Maurice
Goodman was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit by one whose business is getting contracts
for vaudeville performers to perform in theatres all over
the United States and acting as their manager and personal representative. It is brought against a combination of corporations engaged in similar business, and the
owners of a large number of theatres known as the Keith
Circuit, the owners of others known as the Orpheum Circuit, and some other persons not needing special mention
here, who it is alleged are ruining the plaintiff's business
by a conspiracy forbidden by the Anti-Trust Act of July
2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209. An injunction and enormous
damages are asked. The bill was dismissed for want of
jurisdiction by the District Court on the ground that it
did not state a cause of action arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
The bill sets out at superfluous length a combination of
the defendants to exclude actors from the theatres controlled by them, being practically all the theatres in the
United States and in Canada in which high class vaudeville entertainments are produced, and to exclude the
managers and personal representatives of actors from the
defendants' booking exchange in New York and from
business, unless they respectively comply with the defendants' requirements, including the payment of considerable sums. It is alleged that a part of the defendants' business is making contracts that call on performers
to travel between the States and from abroad and in con-

HART v. KEITH EXCHANGE.
271

Opinion of the Court.

nection therewith require the transportation of large quantities of scenery, costumes and animals. Some or many
of these contracts are for the transportation of vaudeville
acts, including performers, scenery, music, costumes and
whatever constitutes the act, so that it is said that there
is a constant stream of this so-called commerce from State
to State. The defendants contend and the judge below
was of opinion that the dominant object of all the arrangements was the personal performance of the actors,
all transportation being merely incidental to that, and
therefore that the case is governed by Federal Base Ball
Club v. National League, 259 U. S. 200. On the other
hand it is argued that in the transportation of vaudeville
acts the apparatus sometimes is more important than the
performers and that the defendants' conduct is within the
statute to that extent at least.
The jurisdiction of the District Court is the only matter to be considered on this appeal. That is determined
by the allegations of the bill, and usually if the bill or
declaration makes a claim that if well founded is within
the jurisdiction of the Court it is within that jurisdiction
whether well founded or not. Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. Rice, 247 U. S. 201, 203. Lamar v. United
States, 240 U. S. 60. Geneva Furniture Manufacturing
Co. v. S. Karpen & Bros., 238 U. S. 254, 258. The Fair v.
Kohler Die & Specialty Co., 228 U. S. 22, 25. While appeals to this Court often are dismissed as frivolous, Equitable Life Assurance Society v. Brown, 187 U. S. 308, 311;
Deming v. Carlisle Packing Co., 226 U. S. 102, 109, 110,
the former case expressly and the latter by implication
follow and reaffirm Swafiord v. Templeton, 185 U. S. 487,
493, to the effect that when a suit is brought in a federal
court and the very matter of the controversy is federal it
cannot be dismissed for want of jurisdiction "however
wanting in merit" may be the averments intended to
51826°-23-18

OCTOBER TERM. 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

establish a federal right. See also St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. McWhirter, 229 U. S. 265,
275, 276. It is not necessary to draw the line between the
foregoing and other cases brought in Courts of the United
States to assert a claim under the Constitution that have
been ordered to be dismissed below because "absolutely
devoid of merit," Newburyport Water Co. v. Newburyport, 193 U. S. 561, 576, 579, beyond confining the latter
to those that are very plain. It is enough that we are not
prepared to say that nothing can be extracted from this
bill that falls under the act of Congress, or at least that
the claim is wholly frivolous. The bill was brought before
the decision of the Base Ball Club Case, and it may be that
what in general is incidental, in some instances may rise
to a magnitude that requires it to be considered independently. The logic of the general rule as to jurisdiction
is obvious and the case should be decided upon the merits
unless the want of jurisdiction is entirely clear. What relief, if any, could be given and how far it could go it is not
yet time to discuss.
Decree reversed.
EX PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS, ETC., PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR A WRIT OF PROHIBITION AND/OR MANDAMUS.

No. 27, Original.

Argued on return to rile to show cause April
16, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.

1. Where the District Court, after due hearing, overruled objections
to its jurisdiction and made an interlocutory order, held, that a
mandamus from this Court was not the proper remedy for correcting its action, if erroneous. Ex parte Roe, 234 U. S. 70. P. 275.
2. Prohibition will not issue to forbid the District Court from proceeding with a suit, for want of jurisdiction, when it is not clear
that jurisdiction is absent, and when there is no imperative reason

