366

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court

262 U. S.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF SAN JOSE v. STATE
OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 276.

Submitted April 13, 1923.-Decided June 4, 1923.

A state law providing for the escheat to the State of bank deposits after they have remained intact and unclaimed for more
than twenty years, when no notice of his residence has been filed
with the bank by the depositor or any claimant, is void as applied

to deposits in National Banks. Calif. Code Civ. Proc. ยง 1273;
U. S. Rev. Stats., ยง 5136. P. 369.
186 Cal. 746, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of California affirming a judgment for the State against the
plaintiff in error Bank, in an action to declare unclaimed
deposits escheated to the State.

Mr. S. F. Leib for plaintiff in error.
Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of the State of
California, and Mr. Frank L. Guerena, Deputy Attorney
General, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Section 1273, California Code of Civil Procedure, declares, "All amounts of money heretofore or hereafter
deposited with any bank to the credit of depositors who
have not made a deposit on said account or withdrawn
any part thereof or the interest and which shall have remained unclaimed for more than twenty years after the
date of such deposit, or withdrawal of any part of principal or interest, and where neither the depositor or any
claimant has filed any notice with such bank showing his
or her present residence, shall, with the increase and proceeds thereof, escheat to the state." It further directs

FIRST NAT'L BANK v. CALIFORNIA.
366

367

Opinion of the Court.

the Attorney General to institute actions in the Superior
Court for Sacramento County against banks and depositors to recover all such amounts, "and if it be determined that the moneys deposited in any defendant
bank or banks are unclaimed as hereinabove stated, then
the court must render judgment in favor of the state declaring that said moneys have escheated to the state and
commanding said bank or banks to forthwith deposit all
such moneys with the state treasurer, to be received, invested, accounted for and paid out in the same manner
and by the same officers as is provided in the case of other
escheated property." Section 15 of the Bank Act contains similar provisions.
In a proceeding under ยง 1273 the trial court gave judgment for the State against plaintiff in error for the
amount credited upon its books to P. A. Campbell for
more than twenty years, and this was affirmed by the
Supreme Court. 186 Cal. 746. We are asked to hold
that so construed and applied this section conflicts with
the laws of the United States touching national banks
and is therefore invalid.
The trial court found"That for more than twenty years prior to the institution of this action there was on deposit with the said defendant bank to the credit of P. A. Campbell the sum of
$1,192.25; that for more than twenty years prior to the
institution of this action the said P. A. Campbell has not
made any deposit to the credit of said account or withdrawn any part thereof or any interest or dividends accruing thereon; that the said money and account so deposited and all accruing interest and dividends thereon
have remained unclaimed for more than twenty years
after the same were so deposited or credited, and after
the withdrawal of any part of the principal or interest
or dividends, and said moneys and account now are unclaimed; that the date of the last transaction in connec-

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

tion with the said deposit of the said P. A. Campbell,
whether by deposit or withdrawal of any portion of such
account or by withdrawal of any interest or dividends
accruing thereon, was on the 10th day of November,
1880; that neither the said depositor nor any claimant of
the said deposit or account, or of any interest or dividends thereon, has filed any notice with the said defendant bank showing the present residence of the said
P. A. Campbell, and the said P. A. Campbell is not known
to the president or to the managing officers of the said
defendant bank to be now living; that the name of the
said depositor, P. A. Campbell, together with the date
of the last transaction in connection with his said deposit
or account, and the amount now on deposit in the said
defendant bank to the credit of the said depositor were
all contained in the annual statement of the said defendant bank filed with the State Controller of the State of
California in January, 1917, as required by law, and the
Attorney General of the State of California has been informed of all of the foregoing facts."
The Supreme Court declined to express an "opinion
upon the question whether the judgment of the superior
court herein operates as a present escheat of the rights
of the several depositors against the respective banks, or
whether under section 1272 they each still have the right
within the time there stated to prosecute an action to
obtain payment of their several deposits from the state
treasurer," and said, "if they have such right the judgment of the superior court would not be a bar thereto."
Section 5136, U. S. Revised Statutes, confers upon
national banks power to receive deposits, which necessarily implies the right to accept loans of money, promising to repay upon demand to lender or his order. These
banks are instrumentalities of the Federal Government.
Their contracts and dealings are subject to the operation
of general and undiscriminating state laws which do

FIRST NAT'L BANK v. CALIFORNIA.
366

Opinion of the Court.

not conflict with the letter or the general object and
pvrposes of congressional legislation. But any attempt
by a State to define their duties or control the conduct
of their affairs is void whenever it conflicts with the laws
of the United States or frustrates the purposes of the
national legislation or impairs the efficiency of the bank
to discharge the duties for which it was created. D.avis v.
Elmira Savings Bank, 161 U. S. 275, 283, 288, 290.
"National banks organized under the act are instruments designed to be used to aid the government in the
administration of an important branch of the public service. They are means appropriate to that end.
.
Being such means, brought into existence for this purpose, and intended to be so employed, the States can
exercise no control over them, nor in any wise affect their
operation, except in so far as Congress may see proper
to permit. Anything beyond this is 'an abuse, because
it is the usurpation of power which a single State cannot
give.'" Farmers'and Mechanics' National Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S. 29, 33, 34.
Congressional legislation in respect of national banks
"has in view the erection of a system extending throughout the country, and independent, so far as powers conferred are concerned, of state legislation which, if permitted to be applicable, might impose limitations and
restrictions as various and as numerous as the States."
Easton v. Iowa, 188 U. S. 220, 229.
Plainly, no State may prohibit national banks from
accepting deposits or directly impair their efficiency in
that regard. And we think, under circumstances like
those here revealed, a State may not dissolve contracts
of deposit even after twenty years and require national
banks to pay to it the amounts then due; the settled principles stated above oppose such power.
Does the statute conflict with the letter or general object and purposes of the legislation by Congress? Obvi51826-23----24

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

ously, it attempts to qualify in an unusual way agreements between national banks and their customers long
understood to arise when the former receive deposits
under their plainly granted powers. If California may
thus interfere other States may do likewise; and, instead
of twenty years, varying limitations may be prescribedthree 3 ears perhaps, or five, or ten, or fifteen. We cannot
conclude that Congress intended to permit such results.
They seem incompatible with the purpose to establish a
system of governmental agencies specifically empowered
and expected freely to accept deposits from customers
irrespective of domicile with the commonly consequent
duties and liabilities. The depositors of a national bank
often live in many different States and countries; and
certainly it would not be an immaterial thing if the deposits of all were subject to seizure by the State where
the bank happened to be located. The success of almost
all commercial banks depends upon their ability to obtain
loans from depositors, and these might well hesitate to
subject their funds to possible confiscation.
This Court has often pointed out the necessity for protecting federal agencies against interference by state
legislation. The approved principle of obsta principlis
should be adhered to. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316; Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; Farmers' and Mechanics' National Bank v. Dearing, supra;
Californiav. Central Pacific R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1; Davis
v. Elmira Savings Bank, supra; Easton v. Iowa, supra;
Covington v. First National Bank, 198 U. S. 100; Farmers and Mechanics Savings Bank v. Minnesota, 232 U. S.
516; Choctaw, Oklahoma & Gulf R. R. Co. v. Harrison,
235 U. S. 292; Bank of California v. Richardson, 248
U. S. 476.
Reversed.

