OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

of the appeal with damages of $1,500 and the taxation
of costs as upon an affirmance of the decree of the District Court.
Dismissed.

GRAHAM, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS FORMER COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, ET AL. v.
DU PONT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 846.

Argued April 30, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.

1. Under § 3224, Rev. Stats., federal taxing officers who, in the
course of general jurisdiction over the subject-matter, have made
an assessment and claim that it is valid, cannot be enjoined from
collecting the tax upon the ground that the assessment is illegal.
P. 254.
2. One who would contest the validity of a federal tax upon the
ground that the assessment and the right to distrain were barred
by a statutory time limitation, should pay the tax and sue to recover it, and not seek relief by a suit to enjoin the Collector from
distraining for the tax. P. 255.
3. Under § 252 of the Revenue Act of 1918, reenacted in the Revenue Act of 1921, a taxpayer whose return of income was due
March 15, 1916, and against whom an additional assessment was
made December 31, 1919, could pay the amount of the assessment,
make his claim therefor, and, if that were rejected, have at least
until March 15, 1921, within which to sue to recover back the
payment. P. 256.
4. A taxpayer cannot, by delaying payment of an assessment until
his right to sue to recover it back is barred by limitations, make a
case so extraordinary and entirely exceptional as to render Rev.
Stats., § 3224, inapplicable to his suit to enjoin collection by distraint. P. 256. Lipke v. Lederer, 259 U. S. 557; Hill v. Wallace,
id. 44, and other cases distinguished.
5. A taxpayer, whose income return for the year 1915 was filed
before March 15, 1916, and who was assessed additionally, December 31, 1919, and, on March 8, 1920, filed a claim for abatement

GRAHAM v.
234

DU

PONT.

Statement of the Case.

of such assessment as void, because not made within the statutory
time limit therefor and because made on a dividend of corporate
shares which were not income (involving a question afterwards
determined adversely in United States v. Phellis, 257 U. S. 156,)
held, entitled under § 252 of Revenue Act 1921, and § 3226, Rev.
Stats., as amended by Revenue Act of March 4, 1923, c. 276,
42 Stat. 1504, to pay the tax assessed, bring suit to recover it
back, and, in such suit to raise questions as to the value of the
stock, and the amount of resulting tax, and also as to whether the
assessment was barred by statutory time limitation. P. 258.
284 Fed. 1017, reversed.
This is a proceeding by certiorari to review the

action of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Third
Circuit in affirming on appeal a temporary injunction
granted by the District Court of Delaware restraining
the then Collector of Internal Revenue for the District
of Delaware from levying a distraint against the property of the complainant, Alfred I. duPont, to collect the
sum of $1,576,015.86 assessed against him by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
In a reorganization of a Dupont Powder Company of
New Jersey and the organization of a new Dupont Powder
Company of Delaware to take over many of the assets of
the old company, the complainant in the year 1915 received 75,534 shares of the common stock of the Delaware
Company of the par value of $100 each. The transaction
was the subject of consideration by this Court in United
States v. Phellis, 257 U. S. 156, where it was determined
that shares in the Delaware Company received by stockholders of the New Jersey Company, as the complainant
received his, at the rate of two in the Delaware Company
in exchange for one in the New Jersey Company, was a
separation of past accumulation of profits from the capital of the New Jersey Company and a distribution to the
stockholders, and thus constituted taxable income under
the Income Tax Law of 1913.
The complainant filed a return and an amended return

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

in March, 1916, of his income for the year 1915, in which
he did not include these shares. In November, 1917, the
Department began an investigation into the liability of
the complainant to pay an income tax on his shares of
stock in the Delaware Company and finally ordered an
assessment of $1,576,015.86. The complainant was notified of this assessment made December 31, 1919. He replied the next day that as his return for 1915 was filed
before March 15, 1916, and as the law required any assessment for additional amount to be made within three
years, and that period had expired, the assessment and
demand for payment were illegal. On February 2, 1920,
a hearing was granted to counsel for complainant by the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
On March 8, 1920, complainant filed a claim for the
abatement of the assessment of $1,576,051.86 as void because made after the limitation of three years had expired
and because the tax was on something that was not income under the law.
Thereafter by agreement between the stockholders similarly situated, one stockholder, Phellis, paid the tax due
under a similar assessment and brought suit in the Court
of Claims to recover it. Counsel for the complainant
herein took part in the argument of that case. The Court
of Claims gave judgment against the United States, but
on appeal the judgment was reversed. The opinion of
the Court was handed down November 21, 1921. All
claims for abatement had been held and not decided by
the Commissioner under an agreement with the counsel in
the Phellis Case. Thereafter the Commissioner rejected
complainant's claim for abatement. The bill of complaint was filed January 30, 1922. The District Court
granted the temporary injunction. The Circuit Court
of Appeals on appeal affirmed the temporary injunction
for the reasons stated in the opinion of the District Court.

GRAHAM v.
234

DU

PONT.

Argument for Petitioners.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Nelson T.
Hartson and Mr. Chester A. Gwinn were on the briefs, for
petitioners.
The suit in this case has for its purpose the restraining
of the collection of a federal tax, and it cannot be maintained.
The only relief prayed for in the bill was injunction to
restrain the collection of the tax. It is true that there
was a general prayer for relief, but any relief given under
a general prayer must be agreeable to the case made by
the bill. Allen v. Pullman'sPalace Car Co., 139 U. S. 638,
662. In this instance respondent sought a preventive
remedy only.
If § 3224 had never been enacted, it is possible that the
collection of a federal tax might be restrained in cases
where the remedy at law is doubtful, although from an
examination of the cases arising prior to its enactment, it
appears that the United States courts were unanimous in
holding that the collection of a federal tax could not be
restrained by injunction, regardless of the absence of any
express legislative enactment inhibiting such relief. Roback v. Taylor, 4 Int. Rev. Rec. 170; McGee v. Denton,
5 Blatchf. 130; United States v. Pacific R. R., 4 Dill. 66.
Since the enactment of § 3224 (originally § 10, Act of
March 2, 1867, c. 169, 14 Stat. 475), the District and
Circuit Courts have had occasion to construe and apply
it in many cases, and it may be said without fear of successful contradiction that there can not be found in the
federal reports to-day a single decision standing unreversed or unmodified where injunction has been granted
to restrain the collection of a federal tax.
On the other hand, the cases are practically unanimous
in holding that the inhibition of § 3224 applies to all
assessments of taxes made under color of their offices by
internal revenue officers charged with general jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Petitioners.

262 U. S.

of the subject of assessing taxes. Snyder v. Marks, 109
U. S. 189, 193; Pacific Whaling Co. v. United States, 187
U. S. 447; Corbus v. Alaska Gold Mining Co., 187 U. S.
455; Dodge v. Osborn, 240 U. S. 118; Dodge v. Brady,
240 U. S. 122; Bailey v. George, 259 U. S. 16.
This Court will not confuse the case at bar with the
recent cases of Lipke v. Lederer, 259 U. S. 557, and Regal
Drug Corporationv. Wardell, 260 U. S. 386, in which the
collection of penalties under § 35 of the National Prohibition Act was restrained, or with Pollock v. Farmers' Loan
& Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, and Brushaberv. Union Pacific
R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, which were suits by stockholders
against the corporation in which they held stock.
Nor does Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, support this
suit, because this Court sustained that case as a stockholders' suit against a corporation to restrain the payment
of so-called "taxes," adjudged to be beyond the taxing
power under the Constitution, and therefore within the
rule laid down in the Pollock and Brushaber Cases. This
Court held that the statute laying the taxes in the
case of Hill v. Wallace was not a taxing act, but an
act to regulate grain exchanges. The exaction was not,
therefore, strictly speaking, a "tax," nor had there been
any assessment by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
or attempt by the collector of internal revenue to collect
an assessment. The effect of the decision was not, therefore, to restrain the collection of a tax.
The effect of § 3224, Rev. Stats., as construed and applied by this Court, may be summed up as follows: If the
assessment is of a tax for revenue purposes, made and
attempted to be enforced by the proper revenue officers
of the United States under color of their offices, its collection can not be restrained by injunction. Cheatham v.
United States, 92 U. S. 85; State Railroad Tax Cases, 92
U. S. 575; Snyder v. Marks, 109 U. S. 189; Pacific Whaling Co. v. United States, 187 U. S. 447; Corbus v. Alaska

GRAHAM
234

V. DU

PONT.

Argument for Petitioners.

Gold Mining Co. 187 U. S. 455; Dodge v. Osborn, 240
U. S. 118; Dodge v. Brady, 240 U. S. 122; Bailey v.
George, 259 U. S. 16.
Respondent's remedy at law was plain, adequate, and
complete, and was not, and is not, barred by any provision
of the Revenue Act of 1921, or any other statute.
The District Court was clearly right in denying plaintiff relief on the grounds: (1) That the assessment was
illegal and invalid in that it was not made within three
years after the due date of the return; Eliot National
Bank v. Gill, 210 Fed. 933; Penrose v. Skinner, 278 Fed.
284; Snyder v. Marks, 109 U. S. 189; (2) that the amount
of the assessment was larger than it should have been;
Phellis v. United States, 56 Ct. Clms. 156; Snyder v.
Marks, 109 U. S. 189; Rev. Stats., § 3224; (3) that the
assessment constituted a cloud upon respondent's title to
his lands; Rev. Stats., § 3224; Dodge v. Osborn, 240 U; S.
118; (4) that the enforcement of the assessment and
demand would result in great hardship to respondent.
Calkins v. Smietanka, 240 Fed. 138; Markle v. Kirkendall, 267 Fed. 498.
The reason assigned by the District Court, absence of
adequate legal remedy, gives no effect whatever to § 3224,
but attempts to decide the case on general principles of
equity. Furthermore, it is incorrect.
Section 252, Revenue Act 1921, did not bar respondent
from his remedy at law; and, even if it did, the bar has
been removed by the amendment of March 4, 1923.
The court below held that the first proviso of § 252 constituted a bar to respondent's remedy at law because
more than five years had elapsed since the due date of the
income-tax return, and the tax was still unpaid; therefore, if respondent had paid the tax after such five years,
he could not have claimed a refund because, under the
first proviso of § 252, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue was not authorized to allow a credit or refund after
such five years.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Petitioners.

262 U. S.

The construction of the court below was contrary to the
contemporaneous construction of the Department at the
time the bill was filed, which was later published in T. D.
3416, approved December 16, 1922.
But the previous construction is immaterial now, because by the amendment of March 4, 1923, Congress has
authorized the Commissioner to allow a refund or credit
in any case where the claim is filed within two years after
the payment of the tax, even if the payment is more than
five years after the due date of the return.
Section 250 (d), Revenue Act 1921, does not bar the
collection by distraint after, if the assessment is made
before, the expiration of five years after the date when the
return was filed. Section 1320 of that act, cited in the
opinion of the court below, does not apply to income taxes.
Distraint is not a "proceeding" within the meaning of
§ 250 (d) to the effect that "no suit or proceeding for
the collection of any such taxes . . . shall be begun,
after the expiration of five years after the date when such
return was filed." The "proceeding" referred to therein
is obviously a judicial proceeding.
This Court indicated by its language in Dodge v. Osborn, referring to § 3224, that there might possibly arise a
case where "by some extraordinary and entirely exceptional circumstance its provisions are not applicable."
Such a case had apparently not come to the attention of
this Court up to the time of its decision in Dodge v. Osborn, but the kind of case it evidently had in mind was
such as Lipke v. Lederer, 259 U. S. 557, where this Court
held that the exaction was not a "tax," and that § 3224
did not apply. Such a case might also arise where an unauthorized person attempts without color of office or of
law to enforce distraint for the collection of an alleged
tax; but it can never apply in a case like the one at bar,
where the tax in some amount was indisputably due under
a decision of this Court, United States v. Phellis, 257

GRAHAM
234

V. DU

PONT.

Argument for Respondent.

U. S. 156; the amount of the assessment was correct under
a decision of the Court of Claims, Phellis v. United States,
56 Ct. Chms. 157; the assessment was made by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and claimed by him to be
correct; and the collection was attempted by a method
prescribed by law and by an officer authorized by law to
make such collections. Snyder v. Marks, 109 U. S. 189;
Kensett v. Stivers, 10 Fed. 517.
Mr. William A. Glasgow, Jr., with whom Mr. Henry
P. Brown was on the brief, for respondent.
The alleged assessment under authority of which the
distraint is proposed to be made, is without authority of
law, illegal and void. The threatened seizure and sale of
respondent's property will be illegal and invalid, unless the
tax claimed has been duly and properly assessed and the
threatened proceedings are authorized by statute. Williams v. Peyton, 4 Wheat. 77; Early v. Doe, 16 How.
610; Ronkendorif v. Taylor's Lessee, 4 Pet. 349; 37 Cyc.
1231.
Under the Income Tax Act of 1913, § E, 38 Stat. 169,
and Rev. Stats., § 3176, as amended by that act, 38 Stat.
179, the assessment was illegal because: (1) The only return alleged by petitioners to have been made upon behalf
of respondent, was not made until July, 1919, or thereafter. (2) The alleged return relied upon by the
petitioners was not such a return as was contemplated by
the act, as it was not made by the persons designated or
in the manner prescribed. (3) The assessment was not
based upon the alleged return. (4) The assessment was
not made until December, 1919.
The Commissioner not only failed to comply with the
requirements of the law, but was without any jurisdiction whatever to make that assessment at the time that
it was made. Under these circumstances the assessment
is not merely irregular but void. Ogden City v. Arm.strong, 168 U. S. 224.
51826*-23-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Respondent.

262 U. S.

It follows that there is no basis for any summary proceedings by distraint to enforce payment of the additional
tax claimed by the petitioners.
The petitioners' contention that the three-year period
referred to in § E, Act of 1913, relates merely to the time
within which the discovery of the omission of income
must be made is erroneous; the period relates to the time
within which the Commissioner must file a return.
Under their construction, if any error was discovered by
the Commissioner within three years, he would have had
authority at any time thereafter, no matter how remote,
to make a return and assessment and proceed to collect
the tax by summary process. His authority to proceed
by summary proceedings, would not necessarily be determined by any matter of record, but would depend entirely
upon whether he or his predecessor in office had knowledge
of the error within the three-year period. The burden
would be upon the taxpayer to disprove such knowledge
and this whether the Commissioner was alive or dead or
otherwise unobtainable as a witness. Thus every case
wherein a return was filed after the three-year period
would necessarily involve the question of fact as to
whether the alleged error had been discovered within said
period by the Commissioner then in office. Woods v.
Llewellyn, 252 Fed. 106; Eliot National Bank v. Gill,
218 Fed. 600; Penrose v. Skinner, 278 Fed. 284; Montgomery's Income Tax Procedure, ed. 1922, p. 196, footnote 17.
The threatened distraint would be in violation of the
express inhibition of § 250 (d), Revenue Act 1921.
On January 30, 1922, when this proceeding was instituted, more than five years had expired since March 1,
1916, when respondent's return was filed, and a distraint
or seizure of his property at that time would have constituted a "proceeding" within the inhibition of that section.

GRAHAM
234

V. DU

PONT.

Argument for Respondent.

That this is the proper construction of its provisions
appears unmistakably from the fact that they forbid
a determination and assessment after the five year
period "unless both the Commissioner and taxpayer
consent in writing to a later determination, assessment and collection of the tax." In other words, it was
recognized by Congress that consent to merely a determination and assessment of the tax after the five year period
would be futile, because even if the tax should be thus
determined and assessed, its collection would still be impossible because of the provisions forbidding the commencement of "any suit or proceeding for the collection"
of the tax after the five year period. In order to make the
consent of the taxpayer effective, therefore, it was provided that it should- relate not only to the determination
and assessment of the tax but to its collection.
That the phrase "proceeding for the collection of any
such taxes" as used in § 250 (d) contemplates a collection
by distraint, is also evidenced by other provisions of the
Revised Statutes. See §§ 3190, 3187, 3196, 3197, 3207.
These designate the proceedings which are available to
the Collector for the collection of a tax, and are obviously
contemplated by the inhibition of § 250 (d) against any
"proceeding for the collection of any such taxes."
Congress could have had no reasonable object in prohibiting, after the five year period, such a suit as is contemplated by § 3207, while allowing a distraint or seizure
after that period under §§ 3187 and 3196. Likewise, if,
as petitioners claim, Congress had intended to impose no
time limit upon the right of the Government to collect a
tax by distraint, provided an assessment had been made
within five years from the time the tax was due, it is difficult to understand why, in a case where such an assessment had been made, Congress expressly prohibited the
collection of such tax by suit after the expiration of said
period.

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Respondent.

262 U. S.

The remedy of distraint has always been the customary
method employed to collect taxes, and it has been only in
very exceptional cases that the Government has ever resorted to suit. What purpose could Congress have had
in mind in depriving the Government of an extraordinary
remedy rarely used, while leaving unaffected the customary proceeding by distraint? The obvious intention of
Congress was to protect the taxpayer. But what possible
reason could there be for protecting him against procedure almost never employed by the Government, if no
protection was to be afforded him against the usual and
ordinary method of proceeding by distraint?
Also, under the theory advanced by the petitioners, the
words " or proceedings" would have comprehended only
that which would be included in the ordinary definition
of the word " suit," and would, therefore, have been mere
surplusage.
The provisions of § 250 (d) which require
determination and assessment of the tax within the five-year period, obviously relate to the functions of the Commissioner and impose restrictions upon his authority; while
it is equally apparent that the provisions which enjoin any
suit or proceeding for the collection of the tax after the
prescribed period, relate to the functions of the Collector
and are intended to impose restrictions upon his authority
to collect taxes which have been assessed by the Commissioner, regardless of the method of collection adopted.
Moreover, while we contend that the limitation imposed
by § 250 (d) applies whether or not there has been an
assessment, we also take the position, already explained,
that the assessment relied upon by the petitioners is illegal
and void and that the situation is the same as though no
assessment had been made. If this contention is correct,
it is immaterial whether or not distraint is contemplated
by the word "proceeding ", as neither assessment nor
distraint would have been made within the five-year
period.

GRAHAM
234

V. DU

PONT.

Argument for Respondent.

We submit, therefore, that the express language and
obvious purpose of § 250 (d), was to afford the honest
taxpayer, after the expiration of the five-year period, protection against the institution of any proceedings whatever, whether by distraint or otherwise; which have for
their object the collection of a tax, and regardless of
whether there had or had not been an assessment.
We also submit that the foregoing argument demonstrates the correctness of our first principal proposition,
that a distraint by the petitioners for the purpose of collecting the additional income tax claimed to be due from
respondent for the year 1915, would be without authority
of law and in violation of express statutory inhibition.
Section 3224, Rev. Stats., does not preclude the respondent from equitable relief.
The "extraordinary and entirely exceptional circumstances" referred to in Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S.44, consisted of the fact that failure to pay the tax would subject the taxpayer "to heavy penalties" and that recovery
of the amount paid by the Board of Trade "would necessitate a multiplicity of suits and, indeed, would be impracticable."
In the present case the "extraordinary and entirely exceptional circumstances" making § 3224 inapplicable are
as follows: (1) The Commissioner had no jurisdiction to
make the assessment relied upon and the assessment was,
in consequence, void. (2) Section 3224, when construed
in connection with § E of the Act of 1913 and with
§ 250 (d) of the Act of 1921, does not forbid equitable relief under circumstances such as exist in the present case.
(3) Unless the respondent is afforded equitable relief, he
will be without legal remedy or such remedy would be
inadequate.
We have already shown that the Commissioner had no
jurisdiction to make the assessment. The following cases
show that under such circumstances § 3224 has no appli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Respondent.

262 U. S.

cation: Ledbetter v. Bailey, 274 Fed. 375; Polk v. Page,
276 Fed. 128; Page v. Polk, 281 Fed. 74 (reversed on another aspect); Nichols v. Gaston, 281 Fed. 67; Frayser v.
Russell, Fed. Cas. No. 5,067; Ogden City v. Armstrong,
168 U. S. 224. .
The foregoing cases show that § 3224 is applicable when
the injunctive relief prayed for is dependent upon mere
errors or irregularities in the assessment which do not go
to the foundation of the tax. In such cases it may be
properly said that provided the assessment is made under
color of their offices by proper government officials
charged with general jurisdiction of the subject of assessing taxes, the taxpayer is remitted to his legal remedy
if there be one. When, however, it is no mere error or
irregularity in the assessment, which is complained of,
but upon the contrary a complete want of jurisdiction
in the Commissioner to make the assessment and the assessment is in consequence void, § 3224, is not applicable.
It may be said of the federal tax system, as it was said
in effect, in Ogden City v. Armstrong, supra, in reference
to the laws of Utah, that the system prescribed by the
United States with respect to the collection and refund
of taxes, is intended to apply in all cases where the tax
is properly assessed and collected, or where there is a
mere irregularity or error in the assessment or collection
which does not go to the foundation of the tax. But that,
where the assessment and, in consequence, the tax is
wholly void and illegal, the statutes and their remedies
for errors and irregularities have no application.
Section 3224, Rev. Stats., when construed in connection
with § E, Revenue Act 1913, and with § 250 (d), Revenue
Act 1921, does not forbid equitable relief under circumstances such as exist in the present case.
As already shown, § E of the Act of 1913, authorizes
assessment, in the case of "false" returns, within three
years after the return was due, while. § 250 (d) of the

GRAHAM v.
234

DU

PONT.

Argument for Respondent.

Revenue Act of 1921, expressly prohibits "any suit or
proceeding for the collection" of the tax after five years
from the date the return was filed. These provisions
were enacted for the purpose of protecting the taxpayers
against assessment and against any summary proceeding
instituted to collect the tax, after the three and five
years periods had elapsed. Can the petitioners successfully maintain that it was the intention of Congress that
the taxpayer should be without any means of availing
himself of this protection in case the government officials
chose to disregard the statutory limits imposed upon their
authority?
Unless the respondent is entitled to equitable relief, he
can in no way obtain the protection intended to be
afforded him by Congress and the statutory limitations
imposed upon the authority of the Commissioner and
Collector would be meaningless. Unless the Court may
exercise its restraining influence in such a case as the
present, there would be, in effect, no limitation upon the
period during which an assesment or distraint might be
made.
Such a result, so manifestly opposed to the intention of
Congress, may be avoided by reading § 3224, and the
Acts of 1913 and 1921, together and in the light of the
authorities already cited. When so construed, § 3224
applies when the complaint is of some mere error or irregularity in the proceeding or an improper exercise of
discretion upon the part of a government official, but does
not forbid relief when the threatened distraint is not only
based upon a void assessment but is also expressly forbidden by statute.
Revised Statutes, § 3224, provided that no injunction
shall issue to restrain the assessment or collection of any
tax, and by a later statute (Act of 1921) it is provided
that no suit or proceeding shall be begun for the collection
of any taxes after the expiration of five years after the

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Respondent.

262 U. S.

date when the return was filed. It would seem obvious
that the only way to enforce the provisions of the Act
of 1921 would be by injunction if the Collector undertook
to violate its provisions, and therefore § 3224 and the Act
of 1921, should be read together, and in a case where the
limitation bars the officer's right to proceed, it should be
held that the provisions of the Act of 1921 supersede
§ 3224.
Unless the respondent is afforded equitable relief, he
will be without legal remedy or such remedy would be
inadequate, for the following reasons:
(a) The right given to the respondent by § E, Revenue
Act 1913, to be protected against assessment after the
expiration of the three-year period, and the right given
him by § 250 (d), Revenue Act 1921, to hold his property
free from seizure and distraint after five years from the
date when his return was filed, cannot be enforced in a
court of law.
(b) There is no statutory provision under which the
respondent may file a claim for refund, which is a condition precedent to the institution of suit.
(c) Assuming, for argument's sake, that a legal remedy
would be available to the respondent, it would be inadequate to compensate him for the loss of his freehold.
The statutory provisions in question confer upon the
taxpayer a substantial right, the right to hold his property free from seizure and distraint after the five year
period, and the only way in which the respondent may
enforce this right and obtain the protection intended to be
afforded him by § 250 (d), is by asserting the provisions of that section as a bar to the collection of the tax.
Moreover it would appear that the only right given to
the taxpayer by that section, is the right to oppose the collection of the tax after the five year period, and that if
this right cannot be successfully asserted as a bar to collection, it becomes ineffective for any purpose whatever.

GRAHAM v.
234

DU

PONT.

Argument for Respondent.

for it is at least extremely doubtful whether such right as
.is given by § 250 (d) could be made the basis of a suit
by a taxpayer to recover the amount of a tax which has
been collected. In such a suit the Government would
contend that its right to the tax was not impaired by
§ 250 (d), and that that section relates solely to remedy
and gave the taxpayer merely a personal defense which
he had been unable to successfully interpose to the collection of the tax.
As against the threatened distraint proceedings, the
only way in which respondent may interpose the right
or defense afforded by § 250 (d) is by a proceeding in
equity.
A like argument applies to the enforcement of the
right given respondent by § E, Revenue Act 1913, to be
protected against assessment after the three year limitation.
There is no statutory provision under which the respondent may file a claim for refund, which is a condition precedent to the institution of suit. Section 3226,
Rev. Stats., as amended by Revenue Act 1921, provides that no suit or proceeding shall be maintained for
the recovery of any tax, "until a claim for refund or credit
has been duly filed with the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, according to the provisions of law in that regard, and the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury established in pursuance thereof." Section 3228, as
amended by the Act of 1921, is the only statute under
which a claim for refund may be filed which will afford a
basis for a suit and this section does not apply to a claim
for refund of taxes paid under the Revenue Act of 1913.
Assuming, for argument's sake, that a legal remedy
would be available to the respondent, it would be inadequate to compensate him for the loss of his freehold.
Ogden City v. Armstrong, 168 U. S. 224.
We submit, therefore, that the present case falls within
the category of extraordinary and exceptional cases which

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Respondent.

262 U. S.

have been held by this Court not to be within the inhibition of § 3224, Rev. Stats.
It is submitted that there is not the slightest similarity
between the facts in Snyder v. Marks, 109 U. S. 189,
and those in the present case. Moreover, in that case,
this Court held that § 3224 forbids injunctive relief only
when the tax claimed "is in a condition to be collected as
a tax," and that "the list shows a tax which the appellant
might be liable to pay, and one which the commissioner
had general jurisdiction to assess against him," (109 U. S.
at 192, 193), whereas in this case the claim is for a tax
which the collector is expressly forbidden to attempt to
collect by any "suit or proceeding."
In discussing the technical legal points of the present
case, one is apt to lose sight of the substantive merits of
the respective positions of the parties.
The facts show that the alleged return is not in proper
form, nor made by the proper official; it was not made
within three years from March 1, 1916; the alleged assessment relied upon was not even based upon the alleged
return, and was likewise made after the three years period,
and the tax claimed is based on a valuation of the stock
far in excess of its real value.
In addition to this, we have the Act of 1921, expressly
forbidding the collector from proceeding either by distraint or suit to collect any tax after five years from the
date when the return was filed.
Regardless of these facts, we have the spectacle of a
United States government official insisting that although
his threatened actions are in express violation of statutory
inhibition, they cannot be enjoined because of a technical
construction of § 3224, Rev. Stats. According to his contention, he must, therefore, be permitted to collect the
tax by distraint, although Congress has declared that he
shall not, and respondent must be left to discover by long
and tedious legal process whether or not there is any legal

GRAHAM v. DU PONT.
234

Reply for Petitioners.

remedy by which he may obtain any redress for a wrong
committed in violation of express statutory inhibition.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck in reply:
The amount of the tax due to the United States from
the respondent cannot be determined in a suit for injunction to restrain the collection of the assessment.
The assessment of the tax made by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue in December., 1919, was legal and its
collection by distraint was not barred by § 250 (d), Revenue Act 1921, or any other statute.
Viewed either in the light of the limitation contained in
§ II E of the Income Tax Act of October 3, 1913, under
which the tax was assessed, or under § 250 (d), Revenue
Act of 1918, if applicable, the assessment of the Commissioner was made within the statutory period and was a
legal assessment. The assessment was made within five
years and was therefore within the limitation prescribed
by the later act. Whether the Act of 1918 applied only
to taxes imposed thereunder may be an open question.
The return was due and was made March 1, 1916, and the
assessment was made on the December, 1919, list. The
assessment in this case was made under the Income Tax
Act of 1913, § IIE.
By the word "false," contained in § II E, is not meant
"fraudulent," but merely untrue or incorrect. Woods v.
Llewellyn, 252 Fed. 106; Eliot National Bank v. Gill, 210
Fed. 933; 218 Fed. 600; National Bank v. Allen, 223
Fed. 472; United States v. Nashville & St. Louis Ry. Co.,
249 Fed. 678. In any event the failure of the respondent
to make a return of the income in question was a " refusal
or neglect." Fraud is not essential. Respondent's return
for the year 1915 was untrue and incorrect in the light of
the decision of this Court in the Phellis Case.
Under § II E of the 1913 Act, if the discovery of the falsity of the return was made within three years the assess-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Reply for Petitioners.

262 U. S.

ment could be made at any time thereafter. Eliot National Bank v. Gill, 218 Fed. 600; Penrose v. Skinner,
278 Fed. 284. This agrees with the departmental construction of the Act of August 5, 1909, and the Act of
October 3, 1913, and such has been the continuous and
uniform construction of the Department ever since the
enactment of said statutes.
Respondent raises other questions, such, for example, as
that § II E of the Income Tax Act of 1913, requires a" return on information " to be made by the Commissioner,
and that the return in this case was not (a) in the prescribed form, (b) made by the Commissioner himself or
the collector or deputy collector, but was made by a
revenue agent, (c) made within three years after the due
date of the return, and (d) did not show the exact amount
of tax as was shown by the assessment. These objections
to the form and manner of making the assessment are
not entitled to consideration in this form of proceeding.
At the most, they affect merely the regularity of the assessment.
Nothing could be better settled by the decisions of this
Court than that neither the accuracy nor the validity of
an assessment of a tax can be determined in a suit for injunction to restrain its collection. Snyder v. Marks, 109
U. S. 189; Dodge v. Osborn, 240 U. S. 118; Pacific Whaling Co. v. United States, 187 U. S. 447.
Distraint for the collection of the assessment would
not violate § 250 (d), Revenue Act 1921, and even if it
did, the remedy would not be by injunction to restrain
the collection of the tax.
The respondent misconstrues § 250 (d). It does not
contain a five-year limitation upon the collection by distraint of taxes due and assessed under the Act of 1913. A
limitation upon two separate acts is contemplated by it:
(1) upon assessment, and (2) upon a "suit or proceeding." The limitation upon judicial remedy is conditioned

GRAHAM
234

V. DU

PONT.

Reply for Petitioners.

upon and a part of the preceding limitation as to assessments.
Congress obviously meant that the Government could
have the prescribed period of years to assess the tax, and
recognizing the prexisting law that it could sue to enforce
a tax liability even though there were no assessment, it
further provided, in order to make its limitation effective,
that when the Government had not assessed the tax
within the prescribed period it could not sue in the courts,
either at common law or in equity, to enforce the unassessed liability of the taxpayer.
If, however, the taxes were assessed within the prescribed period, then the limitation as to a " suit or proceeding" had no application and a suit could be begun at
any time.
This construction is in harmony with the entire scheme
of taxation, for a tax when assessed has always been a
definite liability, and remains a perpetual lien upon the
taxpayer's real estate and it was never intended that
when a tax was once assessed the taxpayer could escape
by a limitation of time. To do this would be to put a
premium upon the neglect to pay taxes duly assessed.
An assessment becomes a lien on all the property of
the taxpayer under § 3186, and requires no judgment of
a court for its satisfaction. An assessment is unnecessary
as the basis of a suit to recover taxes, and a suit is unnecessary where there is a valid assessment. To hold that
the right to distrain is limited to five years after the due
date of the tax, as is the right to assess, would be to destroy the force and effect of an assessment, if made near
the end of the five-year period. See Report,- Committee
on Finance, No. 275, 67th Cong., 1st sess., p. 21, part IV.
The word "proceeding" has been used over and over
again by Congress in conjunction with the word "suit" to
refer to judicial proceedings and to judicial proceedings
alone.

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U.S.

Conceding for the sake of argument that the construction of § 250 (d) is doubtful; even so, the rule in cases
of doubtful construction is not that "the doubt is to be
resolved in favor of the taxpayer," as stated in respondent's brief, with a quotation from 22 Cyc. 1605. It
is only where there is doubt as to whether the statute
levies a tax upon a particular person or thing that the
doubt has been resolved in favor of the taxpayer by this
Court. Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S. 151. There is no
question in this case that the respondent is a taxable person or that the dividends received by him were taxable
as income. United States v. Phellis, 257 U. S. 156. He
is seeking exemption from taxation through a technicality,
and such exemptions are to be strictly construed against
the person claiming the exemption. Bank of Commerce
v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 134, 146.
Respondent can pay the tax and file a claim for the
refunding thereof under § 252, Revenue Act of 1921, as
amended by the Act of March 4, 1923.
Under § 252, as amended, respondent can file a claim
for refund or credit within two years after payment of
the tax, and if his claim is rejected or held by the Commissioner for six months without a decision, he can commence a suit for the recovery back of the tax under § 3226,
Rev. Stats., as amended by § 1318, Revenue Act 1921,
and the Act of March 4, 1923. See also T. D. 3462,
amending Art. 1039, Regulations 62, Income Tax, 1922
ed.; T. D. 3463, amending Art. 1050, Regulations 63; and
T. D. 3457, dated March 17, 1923.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT, after stating the case as
above, delivered the opinion of the Court.

Section 3224, Rev. Stats., provides that" No suit for the
purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of any
tax shall be maintained in any court." In Cheatham v.
United States, 92 U. S. 85, 88; State Railroad Tax Cases,

GRAHAM v.
234

DU

PONT.

Opinion of the Court.

92 U. S. 575, 613, and in Snyder v. Marks, 109 U. S. 189,
193, it was said that the system prescribed by the United
States in regard to both customs duties and internal revenue taxes, of stringent measures not judicial, to collect
them, with appeals to specified tribunals and suits to
recover back moneys illegally exacted, was a system of
corrective justice intended to be complete, and enacted
under the right belonging to the government to prescribe
the conditions on which it would subject itself to the
judgment of the courts in the collection of its revenues.
In the exercise of that right, it declares by § 3224 that its
officers shall not be enjoined from collecting a tax claimed
to have been unjustly assessed, when those officers, in
the course of general jurisdiction over the subject matter
in question, have made the assessment and claim that it is
valid. This view has been approved in Shelton v. Platt,
139 U. S. 591; in Pittsburgh,etc., Ry. v. Board of Public
Works, 172 U. S. 32; in Pacific Steam Whaling Co. v.
United States, 187 U. S. 447, 451, 452; in Dodge v. Osborn,
240 U. S. 118, 121, and in Bailey v. George, 259 U. S. 16.
The District Court recognized the sweep of these decisions in respect of the contention of the complainant that
the assessment of this tax and the threatened distraint to
collect it were barred by limitations under the statute,
and was of opinion that as a rule such attacks upon the
validity of the tax could, only be heard and considered
after the tax had been paid in a suit to recover it back.
In this view we fully concur.
The District Court, however, thought that an exception
to the operation of § 3224 must arise when it appeared,
as it held it did appear here, that no provision of law
existed by which if the taxpayer when he filed his bill for
an injunction had paid the. tax assessed, he could bring a
suit to recover it back because it would be barred by the
statutory limitation of time in which such a suit could be
brought.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

The court based its conclusion on § 252 of the Revenue
Act of 1918, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1085, reenacted in the Revenue
Act of 1921, c. 136, 42 Stat. 268, which reads as follows:
"If, upon examination of any return of income made
pursuant to . . . the Act of October 3, 1913
. .
tax has
it appears that an amount of income
been paid in excess of that properly due, then, notwithstanding the provisions of section 3228 of the Revised
Statutes, the amount of the excess shall be credited
against any income . . taxes, or installment thereof,
then due from the taxpayer under any other return, and
any balance of such excess shall be imnediately refunded
to the taxpayer: Provided, That no such credit or refund
shall be allowed or made after five years from the date
when the return was due, unless before the expiration of
such five years a claim therefor is filed by the taxpayer."
The return was due March 15, 1916. The assessment
was made December 31, 1919. The complainant might
then have paid the tax and would have had two years in
which to make his claim, and if rejected, to sue to recover
it back if, as he now submits, § 252 limited his right to pay
and sue to recover. Under such a construction and application of § 252, suit must have been brought on or before
March 15, 1921. This is what Phellis did (United States
v. Phellis, 257 U. S. 156) and there was no question raised
as to his right to bring the suit in the Court of Claims to
recover back the tax paid by him if it had proved to be
illegally assessed and collected. Certainly complainant
could not, by delaying his payment until his right to sue
to recover it back expired, make a case so extraordinary
and entirely exceptional as to render § 3224, Rev. Stats.,
inapplicable.
If it be said that he was waiting for the Commissioner
to act on his claim for abatenient of the assessment, it is
enough to say that the Commissioner's delay until after
the decision of the Phellis Case in November. 1921, was

GRAHAM
234

V. DU

PONT.

Opinion of the Court.

due to agreement by the parties. Nor was he prevented
from paying the assessment by his claim for abatement.
The cases complainant's counsel rely on do not apply.
The cases of Lipke v. Lederer, 259 U. S. 557, and Regal
Drug Corporation v. Wardell, 260 U. S. 386, were not
cases of enjoining taxes at all. They were illegal penalties in the nature of punishment for a criminal offense.
Pollock v. Farmer'sLoan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, and
Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, were
suits by stockholders against corporations to restrain the
corporations from paying taxes alleged to be unconstitutional. Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, was in part a suit
like the foregoing. It was a bill filed by members of the
Chicago Board of Trade to prevent the governing board
from applying to the Secretary of Agriculture to have the
Board of Trade designated as a "contract market" under
the Future Trading Act on the ground that the act was
unconstitutional and its operation would impair the value
of the Board to its members. Without such designation,
no member could have sold grain for future delivery without paying a prohibitive tax, and if he sold without paying the tax, he was subjected to heavy criminal penalties.
To pay such a tax on each of the many thousands of transactions on the Board, and to sue to recover them back
would have been utterly impracticable. It would have
blocked the entire future grain business of the country
and would have seriously injured not only the members
of the Board but also the producing and consuming public. This phase of the situation was so clear that the
Government in effect consented to the temporary injunction. See Hill v. Wallace, 257 U. S. 310, s. o 615. Under
these extraordinary and most exceptional circumstances,
it was held that § 3224 was not applicable to prevent an
injunction against collection of such a prohibitive tax
imposed for the purpose of regulating the future grain
51826°-23-17

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

business with all the unnecessary and disastrous consequences its enforcement would entail if the act was unconstitutional. Hill v. Wallace should, in fact, be classed
with Lipke v. Lederer, supra, as a penalty in the form of
a tax. Certainly we have no such case here.
This conclusion renders it unnecessary for us to consider whether § 252 of the Revenue Act of 1921, in connection with § 3226, Rev. Stats., as amended by the same
Revenue Act of 1921, barred complainant's right to pay
the tax and sue to recover it back at the time of filing
his bill, as held by the District Court. It is certain that
by the amendments to § 252 and § 3226, Rev. Stats., by
the Act of March 4, 1923, c. 276, 42 Stat. 1504, the complainant is given the right now to pay the tax, and sue to
recover it back, and in such a suit to raise the questions
as to the value of the stock and the amount of the resulting tax and also as to the bar of time against the assessment which he attempted to raise in the bill.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the case is remanded to the District Court with directions to dissolve the temporary injunction and to dismiss
the bill.
Reversed.
DHARANDAS TULSIDAS ET AL. v. INSULAR COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 77. Submitted May 2, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.
1. A decision of the duly constituted immigration authorities holding
an applicant not of a status entitling him to admission, should not
be rejected in habeas corpus unless resulting from manifest abuse
of power and discretion. P. 263.
2. The right of an alien applicant to be admitted, under the Immigration Act of 1917, as a merchant, does not depend on his pre-

