134

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

CULLINAN v. WALKER, AS COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE FIRST DISTRICT
OF TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 301.

Argued March 9, 1923.-Decided April 30, 1923.

1. The gain accruing to a shareholder through enhancement of the
value of his shares, and which, when segregated, becomes legally
income subject to the income tax, may be segregated by a dividend made on liquidation of the corporation as well as by an
ordinary dividend. P. 137.
2. Partly to comply with its state law and partly to procure additional credit for the business, an oil corporation was dissolved;
its trustees in liquidation formed a producing corporation and a
pipe line corporation, in the same State, transferred one-half of
the assets to each, receiving from each in return its stock and its
bonds, transferred all this stock to a holding corporation, which
they formed in another State, receiving in exchange its stock, and
distributed this stock, with the bonds of the other two existing corporations, among the persons who had been the stockholders of
the dissolved concern. The three new corporations had at the
time of the distribution no assets other than those so received
from the trustees and the value of the assets was the same as when
the trustees held them. Held, that the securities thus distributed
were not in legal effect a stock dividend, and that a distributee was
taxable under the income tax provision of September 8, 1916, c.
463, Tit. I, §§ 1 and 2, 39 Stat. 756, upon the amount by which the
securities he received, exceeded in value his investment in the
shares of the original colporation. P. 136. United States v.
Phellis, 257 U. S. 156.
Affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court in an action
against an internal revenue collector to recover back a
tax, paid under protest.

Mr. John Walsh, with whom Mr. William Wright
Moore and Mr. Beeman Strong were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.

CULLINAN v. WALKER.
134

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Nelson T.
Hartson and Mr. P. C. Alexander were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
Mr. James Byrne, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicu8 curiae.
Mr. Arthur A. Ballantine, by leave of court, filed a
brief as amicus curiae.
MR. JusnicE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A tax of $156,212.66 was laid upon Cullinan, under
the Act of September 8, 1916, c. 463, Title I, §§ 1 and 2,
39 Stat. 756, 757, for additional gain or income of that
year, assessed at $1,571,760. He paid the tax, under
protest; and brought, in the federal court for southern
Texas, this action against the local collector of internal
revenue to recover the amount. The question was
whether certain securities received by Cullinan in that
yea'r should be deemed gain or income. The case was
tried by the court without a jury, upon agreed facts; and
judgment was entered for defendant. Cullinan contends
that securities issued to him, which the collector treated
as gain or income, were, in legal effect, like a stock dividend; and that, under Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S.
189, he was not taxable thereon. The Government insists that the securities so distributed were gains or income within the rule laid down in United States v. Phellis, 257 U. S. 156, and Rockefeller v. United States, 257
U. S. 176. This issue, presented on the facts hereinafter stated, is the only matter for decision. The case
is here on writ of error under § 238 of the Judicial Code,
because of the constitutional question involved. Towne
v. Eisner, 245 U. S. 418.
Farmers Petroleum Company was, in 1915, a Texas
corporation, with a capital stock of $100,000. Cullinan

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

owned 26.64 per cent. of its stock, for which he had paid
(in that, and the preceding year) $26,640 in cash. Later
in 1915, the company was dissolved under the Texas law;
and Cullinan became one of the trustees in liquidation.
In 1916 the trustees organized two Texas corporations:
Republic Production Company, a producing concern, and
American Petroleum Company, a pipe line concern. To
these corporations the trustees transferred the assets held
by them; one-half in value to each. From each they received $1,500,000 par value of its stock and $1,500,000
par value of its bonds; being the total issues. The trustees also organized under the laws of Delaware a third
company: American Republics Corporation, a holding
company. To this company the trustees transferred all
the $1,500,000 stock of each of the new Texas corporations; from it they received $3,000,000 of its stock. They
thus held in 1916 the $3,000,000 stock of the Delaware
corporation and the $1,500,000 bonds of each of the new
Texas corporations. All these securities the trustees
then distributed pro rata among the persons who had
been stockholders in Farmers Petroleum Company.
Farmers Petroleum Company had been dissolved solely
for the purpose of effecting a reorganization. The reorganization was undertaken, partly, in order to separate
the pipe lines from the producing properties, which counsel advised was necessary; and, partly, in order to procure credit required for the developing business. The
two new Texas corporations had at the time of the distribution of the stock of the Delaware corporation no assets other than those received from the trustees in liquidation. These assets were at the time of distribution of
the same value as they were when held by the trustees in
liquidation. Cullinan received 26.64 per cent. of each
class of security. The stock and bonds distributed were
then all worth par. The aggregate value of the securities
received by him was $1,598,400. The amount which he

CULLINAN v. WALKER.
134

Opinion of the Court.

had invested in Farmers Petroleum Company was
$26,640. On the difference, $1,571,760, the internal revenue collector assessed the tax here in question.
Cullinan insists that his gain so ascertained was merely
an incident of a reorganization. This was equally true
in the Phellis and the Rockefeller Cases. It is sought to
differentiate those cases on the ground, that there the
distributed stock of the new corporation was technically
a dividend paid out of surplus; and that here the segregation is not of that character. But the gain, which
when segregated becomes legally income subject to the
tax, may be segregated by a dividend in liquidation, as
well as by the ozdinary dividend. If the trustees in liquidation had sold all the assets for $6,000,000 in cash,
and had distributed all of that, no one would question
that the late stockholders of Farmers Petroleum Company would, in the aggregate, have received a gain of
$5,900,000, taxable as income. The result would obviously have been the same, if the trustees had taken in
payment, and distributed, bonds of the value of
$6,000,000, in some new corporations. And the result
must, also, be the same where that taken in payment is
$3,000,000 of such bonds and $3,000,000 in stock of a
third corporation. All the material elements which differentiate the Phellis and Rockefeller Cases from Eisner
v. Macomber are present also here. The corporation,
whose stock the trustees distributed, was a holding company. In this respect, it differed from Farmers Petroleum Company, which was a producing and pipe line
company. It differed from the latter, also, because it
was organized under the laws of another State. It is
true that, at the time this Delaware corporation's stock
was distributed, it held the stock of the new oil producing
company and likewise the stock of the new pipe line company. But the Delaware corporation was a holding company. It was free, at any time, to sell the whole, or any

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

part, of the stock in either of the new Texas companies
and to invest the proceeds otherwise. By such a sale,
and change of investments, all interest of the holding
company in the original enterprise might be parted with,
without, in any way, affecting the rights of its own stockholders. When the trustees in liquidation distributed
the securities in the three new corporations, Cullinan, in
a legal sense, realized his gain; and became taxable on it
as income for the year 1916.
Affirmed.

YUMA COUNTY WATER USERS' ASSOCIATION
ET AL. v. SCHLECHT ET.AL.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
NINTH

FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

No. 268. Argued February 28, 1923.-Decided April 30, 1923.
1. Preliminary, tentative opinions of the cost of constructing projected irrigation works, expressed by government engineers and
officials in official correspondence and in statements at a meeting
of prospective water-users, do not constitute the estimate of cost,
or the public notice, required by § 4 of the Reclamation Act, and,
though relied upon by the water-users in subjecting their lands to
the project, do not bind or estop the Government from afterwards
ficing the construction charges against the lands pursuant to the
statute, in accordance with a higher estimate arrived at in the light
of further investigation and experience. P. 143.
2. The Reclamation Act, § 4, contemplates a precise and formal public notice, stating the lands irrigable under a project, the limit of
area for each entry, the charges per acre, the number of annual
instalments, and the time when payments shall commence. P. 144.
3. The determination by the Secretary of the Interior of the practicability of a project and the making of the construction contracts
are conditions precedent to the estimate of cost and the public
notice, under § 4 of the act. P. 145.
4. The time within which the notice shall be given, after the occurrence of these conditions, is left to the sound discretion of the
Secretary; and he may delay the notice while the question of cost
remains in doubt. P. 145.

