MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.

447

Syllabus.

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, ET AL.
IN EQUITY.

FROTHINGHAM v. MELLON, SECRETARY OF
THE TREASURY, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 24, Original, and No. 962. Argued May 3, 4, 1923.-Decided
June 4, 1923.
1. This Court has no jurisdiction of an original proceeding by a
State if the matter is not of justiciable character. P. 480.
2. The Act of November 23, 1921, c. 135, 42 Stat. 224, called the
"Maternity Act," authorizes appropriations, to be apportioned
among such of the States as shall accept and comply with its
provisions, for the purpose of coperating with them to reduce
maternal and infant mortality and to protect the health of
mothers and infants; it provides for its administration by a federal
bureau in coperation with state agencies, which are to make sch
reports of their operations and expenditures as the bureau may
prescribe; and that, whenever the bureau shall determine that
funds have not been properly expended by any State, payments
to that State may be withheld. In a suit brought in this Court
by a State, against the federal officials charged with the administration of the act, who were citizens of other States, to enjoin
them from enforcing it, wherein the plaintiff averred that the act
is unconstitutional, in that its purpose is to induce the States to
yield sovereign rights reserved by them and not granted the Federal Government, under the Constitution, and that the burden of
the appropriations falls unequally upon the several States, held,
that, as the statute does not require the plaintiff to do or yield
anything, and as no burden is imposed by it other than that of
taxation, which falls, not on the State but on her inhabitants, who
are within the federal, as well as the state, taxing power, the complaint resolves down to the naked contention that Congress has
usurped reserved powers of the States by the mere enactment of
the statute, though nothing has been, or is to be, done under it

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

without their consent,-an abstract question of political power,
not a matter of judicial cognizance. P. 482.
3. A State may not, as parens patriae, institute judicial proceedings
to protect her citizens (who are no less citizens of the United
States), from the operation of a federal statute upon the ground
that, as applied to them, it is unconstitutional. P. 485.
4. A suit by an individual, as a past and future federal taxpayer, to
restrain the enforcement of an act of Congress authorizing appropriations of public money, upon the ground that the act is invalid,
cannot be entertained in equity. P. 486.
5. To invoke the judicial power to disregard a statute as unconstitutional, the party who assails it must show not only that the statute
is invalid, but that he has sustained, or is immediately in danger of
sustaining, some direct injury as a result of its enforcement, and
not merely that he suffers in some indefinite way in common with
people generally. P. 488.
No. 24, Original. Dismissed.
No. 962. 288 Fed. 252, affirmed.

THE first of these cases was an original suit, brought in
this Court by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, for
herself and as representative of her citizens, against the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Chief of the Children's Bureau of the Department of Labor, the Surgeon General of
the United States Public Health Service, and the United
States Commissioner of Education, all of whom were citizens of States other than Massachusetts, and the last
three of whom constituted the Board of Maternity and
Infant Hygiene created by the above-mentioned act of
Congress. The purpose was to enjoin the enforcement of
the act. The second case is an appeal from a decree of
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, affirming a decree of the Supreme Court of the District, which
dismissed a bill brought by the appellant, for the same
purpose, against the same defendants.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Robert P.
Reeder, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was
on the brief, for Mellon et al.

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Argument for Mellon.

I. The bills are fatally defective in that they do not
join as parties defendant those States which, by complying with the terms of the act, have become entitled to its
benefits. Texas v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
258 U. S. 158.
II. The actions are essentially against the United
States, which may not be sued without its consent. Kansas v. United States, 204 U. S. 331.
Where plaintiffs have sought to interfere with the performance of official duties by officers of the United States,
this Court has held that the actions were, in substance,
against the Federal Government, even although they did
not affect the title of the United States to property.
Wells v. Roper, 246 U. S. 335; Louisiana v. McAdoo, 234
U. S. 627; North Dakota v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry.
Co., 257 U. S. 485.
III. The suit brought by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts is not a controversy between a State and citizens
of other States. Jurisdiction may not be based upon that
ground.
In substance and effect these suits are against the
Children's Bureau and the Board of Maternity and Infant
Hygiene. But they are not citizens of any particular
State; and the Commonwealth may not make this an
action between a State and citizens of another State, and
thus within the original jurisdiction of this Court, by
naming as defendants the individuals composing the
Board and the Chief of the Bureau. Texas v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, supra; Bankers Trust Co. v.
Texas & PacificRy. Co., 241 U. S. 295.
This Court does not exercise its original jurisdiction
upon a mere formal or colorable showing either as to
parties or subject-matters. It looks through the form to
the real character and substance of the suit. Wisconsin
v. Pelican Insurance Co., 127 U. S. 265; Louisiana v.
Texas, 176 U. S. 1; Oklahoma v. Atchison T. & S. F. Ry.
51826°-23---29

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Mellon.

262 U. S.

Co., 220 U. S. 277; Oklahoma v. Gulf, Colorado & Santa
Fe Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 290.
It may be admitted arguendo that if suit might be
brought solely against the Secretary of the Treasury,
although his duties under the act are merely ministerial,
the suit need not be dismissed upon jurisdictional
grounds. But as the Board and the Bureau are indispensable parties, without which the suit may not proceed, and as their joinder would preclude the basing of
jurisdiction upon the ground that the defendants are citizens of States other than the plaintiff State (Minnesota
v. Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S. 199), the jurisdictional status of the Secretary of the Treasury is not
material.
IV. Even if money raised by federal taxes is being
misspent, a State may not bring suit in behalf of its citizens. Since the Constitution superseded the Articles of
Confederation, the revenues of the United States have
not been collected from States but from individuals. The
State is here asking the Court to pass upon, not the rights
of the State, but the federal rights of taxpayers who,
while citizens of Massachusetts, are also citizens of the
United States and whose payment of federal taxes is in
the latter capacity.
It is possible that a State might appeal to the federal
courts in cases in which the rights of its citizens as citizens of the State were involved; but such rights are not
involved in this case. A State certainly may not appeal
to the federal courts in cases in which it is seeking to represent the federal rights of any number of its citizens.
Oklahoma v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 277;
Oklahoma v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 290, 301.
And even if a State might appear in a representative
capacity under such circumstances, it would not then
have the right to invoke the original jurisdiction of this
Court.

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Argument for Mellon.

V. These actions present no justiciable controversy.
The only effect of this law in the plaintiff State is upon
the taxpayers as federal taxpayers and not upon the State
itself. A very small proportion of the federal revenues
raised under general statutes throughout the entire country is appropriated to carry out the purposes of the act.
Other than this, the law has no force whatever in any
State without the consent of that State. Nothing has
been done under it within the limits of Massachusetts.
This Court should not be asked to consider whether an
opportunity offered to that State and not accepted by it
was offered unconstitutionally nor whether other States
which are not parties to this proceeding have surrendered
any of their constitutional rights., The plaintiff State can
not properly invoke the aid of this Court when its own
rights are not involved. Texas v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 258 U. S. 158.
Nor is the plaintiff in the second of the instant suits in
any better position. It is true that she is a taxpayer, but
that fact alone will not create a justiciable controversy
with respect -to an appropriation of government property
which may or may not have been derived from taxation.
Her liability to pay a general tax remains, whether the
appropriation is valid or invalid. No one has ever seriously claimed that a taxpayer could refuse to pay his taxes
until he first was advised that the revenues thus raised
would be expended for a constitutional purpose. If Congress may not make these appropriations in the promotion
of the generalwelfare, the appellant, Mrs. Frothingham,
could not recover any part of taxes which she has already
paid, nor could she refuse in future to pay any taxes imposed upon her. Thus her liability as a taxpayer is unaffected by the disposition which Congress in the exercise
of its broad political discretion may make of the public
revenues or property.
The difficulty of plaintiffs in both the instant cases is
that they are asking the Court to determine abstract ques-

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Mellon.

262 U. S.

tions which do not appreciably or practically affect them.
Massachusetts was within her rights in refusing to accept
the grant under the law in question. Paying no taxes and
not being liable to any, she has no just cause of complaint.
Mrs. Frothingham can neither recover taxes already paid
nor defend against the imposition of future taxes in whatever amount Congress may in its discretion impose upon
her, however the decision in the instant case may be.
How, then, has either plaintiff any interest in the question
other than as an abstract question of constitutional law?
Such questions this Court has uniformly held that it will
not answer. Marye v. Parsons, 114 U. S. 325; Muskrat v.
United States, 219 U. S. 346.
It is true that Massachusetts is a sovereign State, but
there are forty-seven other sovereign States. Each one
of them has a deep interest in the preservation of our
constitutional form of government. But such fact in
itself does not give to Massachusetts or to any other State
the right to invoke the decision of this Court as to whether
an act of Congress is constitutional. Otherwise every act
of Congress might be challenged by any one of forty-eight
States before it was enforced.
Similarly, Mrs. Frothingham as a taxpayer has an abstract interest in the way the public revenues are appropriated. But there are many million taxpayers (seven
millions alone paying an income tax), and as the enforcement of every law presumably requires some expenditure
of money by the Federal Government, it cannot be that
every taxpayer has a right to challenge a law as unconstitutional because its enforcement requires the expenditure
of public moneys and these are in part raised by taxation.
This tribunal is a court and not a council of revision,
and as a court it requires that the litigant who invokes
its judgment must have some direct, tangible, and practical interest in the question litigated.

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447 ,

Argument for Mellon.

VI. The essential questions involved: All that Congress
has done under this act has been to offer and give financial aid to those States which wish such support to their
own efforts to reduce maternal and infant mortality and
to protect the health of mothers and infants. No question of federal taxation is involved; nor is any question
of federal regulation, for Congress has not attempted to
prescribe the conduct of the States or of their citizens.
The only questions as to the constitutionality of such
an act which can arise are whether the appropriations
are unauthorized uses of federal funds, to the injury of
the federal treasury; whether they are made upon such
conditions as to deprive either the States which accept or
those which reject the conditions of any constitutional
rights; and whether Congress has delegated its legislative power. Massachusetts attempts to raise the first
two of these questions, although it seems clear that the
State has no proper concern in the question whether the
appropriations made under the act squander the funds
of the Federal Government.
VII. The power of Congress to make appropriations
from the general funds of the United States is almost unlimited. Article I, § 8, cl. 3, of the Constitution confers
upon Congress the power to collect taxes in order to make
appropriations, and by necessary inference authorizes the
making of appropriations. But it is not necessary to rely
upon this authority to tax and appropriate, for no tax is
necessarily involved; the sole question is whether Congress may appropriate, and Congress has other authority
for making appropriations.
The money which is paid out under this at is not earmarked as having been derived from taxes and may not
have come into the Treasury from that source or as a
result of that power. The Constitution provides that the
Government may derive funds from other sources than
taxes, and the Constitution provides other authority than

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Mellon.

262 U. S.

this clause under which Congress, may dispose of the
financial resources of the Government.
Taxes have not been the only means of replenishing the
Treasury. Billions of dollars which were spent in the
World War were secured by loans and not by taxation,
and a large portion of this money will be repaid without
resort to federal taxation. After the war several hundred millions of dollars were recovered by the sale of war
supplies; a portion of the money loaned to our Allies has
already been repaid; and Germany has paid some of the
expenses of our Army. Conceivably all of the cost of a
successful war might be met initially by loans and eventually by reparations without any resort whatever to
the levying of additional taxes by Congress.
Furthermore, the Government has secured many millions of dollars by the sale of lands which were originally
ceded to the United States by the States or purchased
from other countries or acquired by conquest or discovery.
Many other millions have been obtained by treaties. The
current operations of the Government have often been a
source of revenue.
Article IV, § 3, clause 2, of the Constitution provides:
"The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make
all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory
or other property belonging to the United States." The
power given is a broad one. United States v. Gratiot, 14
Peters, 526; Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92.
The term property, as the Court pointed out in Dred
Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393, 436 (see also Mormon
Church v. United States, 136 U. S. 1, 64), includes personal property. Later decisions have shown that it includes money, from whatever source derived. Pirie v.
Chicago Title & Trust Co., 182 U. S. 438; Bush v. Elliott,
202 U. S. 47i; In re Louisville National Banking Co.,
.158 Fed. 403; In re Gilpin, 160 Fed. 171. See also Fishburn v. Londershausen,50 Ore. 363; Washington County

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Argument for Mellon.

v. Weld County, 12 Colo. 152; Williams v. State, 58 Tex.
Crim. 82; State v. Parmenter, 50 Wash. 164; Fullerton v.
Young, 94 N. Y. S. 511; Mt. Holly Safe Deposit & Trust
Co. v. Deacon, 79 N. J. Eq. 120; 18 R. C. L., Tit.
"Money," p. 1268; 22 R. C. L., Tit. " Property," p. 43.
In the earliest years of our national existence Congress made a portion, though only a portion, of its donations by grants of tracts of land. No one can doubt that
such appropriations were authorized by Article IV. Congress later made a portion of its grants from funds derived from the sale of lands and not from taxation. As
to such appropriations, it is obvious that they were
authorized by Article IV. So also, where appropriations
have been made from the general funds in the Treasury,
many million dollars of which were not derived from
taxation, it seems clear that, by parity of reasoning, those
appropriations were authorized by the same article. Nor
is there anything in the broad terms of that provision
which restricts it to the disposition of funds derived otherwise than from taxes. The clause broadly empowers Congress to dispose of any of the financial resources of the
Federal Government. After property has been acquired
by the United States, after funds have been brought into
the Treasury and mingled with the other funds there
placed, Congress has sweeping power to dispose of those
resources.
VIII* This act does not violate any express or implied limitations upon the power of Congress. The only
express limitations which the Constitution imposes upon
the power of Congress to appropriate money are those
which relate to the salaries of the President and the federal judges and provide that no appropriation for the
support of the armies shall be for a longer period than
two years. Those provisions clearly have no bearing upon
this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Mellon.

262 U. S.

The plaintiff and appellant simply claim that federal
taxpayers suffer because of expenditures which are alleged
to be unauthorized by the Constitution, that the rights
of the States are invaded, and that legislative power is
delegated in violation of the Constitution.
IX. The grant of power to appropriate which is contained in the "general welfare" provision is in no wise
restricted to the subject-matters upon which Congress
may make regulations.
Obviously this clause in Article I does not empower
Congress to provide for the general welfare otherwise
than through appropriations, for the entire clause relates
only to taxation and to the use of the funds raised by
taxation.
On the other hand, the clause does not restrict congressional appropriations to the subject-matters upon
which Congress may legislate. As to such subject-matters it would have been unnecessary to specifically authorize appropriations, for the final clause in this section
broadly empowers Congress to make all laws which shall
be necessary and proper for carrying into execution "the
foregoing powers."
Even without the "general welfare" provision Congress could, whenever it has authority to impose its will
by positive commands, appropriate the money necessary
to make its will effective. The clause authorizing Congress by appropriations to provide for the general welfare
must, therefore, have a broader purpose than merely to
facilitate the exercise of the powers of Congress to impose
commands.
Moreover, the grant of power to tax and appropriate, in
the first clause of § 8, is distinct from the grants of power
in each of the other sixteen clauses of that section, and
there is nothing in the sweeping term "to provide for
. . . the general welfare" to show that the power to
appropriate money was given merely in aid of the grants
in those other clauses. See Story, Const., 5th ed., § 913.

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Argument for Mellon.

X. The overwhelming weight of authority shows that
such is the extent of the power of Congress to appropriate
money for the general welfare.
From the earliest days of our country's existence statesmen have recognized in their public utterances this broad
scope of the power to appropriate for the public welfare;
Congress has recognized it in innumerable appropriations
of money and property aggregating in value billions of
dollars; and those appropriations have never been successfully challenged in this Court. Hamilton: Opinion
to Washington, Hamilton's Works, Lodge's ed., III, pp.
179, 217; Report on Manufactures, ibid., pp. 294, 371, 372.
Washington: Story Const., 5th ed., note to § 978; First
Annual Message, Richardson, Messages and Papers of the
Presidents, I, 66; Eighth Annual Message, ibid., 202.
Madison: Federalist, No. 41; Richardson, op. cit., II, 485,
568; ibid I, 410. Calhoun: IV Elliot's Debates, 2d ed.,
p. 431, note; Benton, Abridgment, V, 706, 707. Tucker:
Am. State Papers, Misc., II, 443, 446, 447. Monroe:
Richardson, II, 142, 144,162-164,166, 173. John Quincy
Adams: Inaugural Address, Richardson, II, 298; First
Annual Message, ib. pp. 306, 307, 311-314; Letter to
Stevenson, July 11, 1832. Story: Const., 5th ed., §§ 991,
923, 924. Pomeroy, Intro., Const. Law, §§ 274, 275;
Hare, Am. Const. Law, 245, 246; Willoughby, Const., §
269; Burdick, Am. Const., § 77; Corwin, Harv. Law
Rev., March,. 1923, pp. 569, 575, 577, 584.
XI. This Court has never rendered a decision adverse
to such an interpretation of the general welfare clause.
Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; United States v. Realty
Co., 163 U. S. 427; Allen v. Smith, 173 U. S. 389.
XII. From the earliest years of the country's history,
Congress has repeatedly made appropriations relating to
subject-matters which it is not entitled to regulate.
The Constitution was so interpreted by the First Congress, and it has been so interpreted in innumerable instances since then.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Mellon.

262 U. S.

Such precedents are so numerous and extend to such an
early date as to be entitled to binding force in this Court.
Stuart v. Laird, 1 Cr. 299; Note by Cooley to Story on the
Constitution, § 311. See also United States v. Midwest
Oil Co., 236 U. S. 459, 472, 473; Martin v. Hunter's
Lessee, 1 Wheat. 352; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
401; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 691; Downes v. Bidwell,
182 U. S. 286; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 290.
XIII. The appropriations made under this act are for
the general welfare.
XIV. The contention of the appellant that the appropriations authorized by this act are unrestricted grants to
the States and therefore not made for the public welfare
is unsound.
XV. The question whether such appropriations are for
the general welfare is not a judicial question.
XVI. The act does not undertake to enlarge the governmental
powers of any State or state officials.
XVII. The
act does not in any way entrench upon the
powers of the States.
XVIII. Congress has not by this act delegated legislative power to the Board or the Bureau.
Ours is a dual form of government and thus involves a
dual citizenship. Therefore both the Nation and the
States have an equal interest in providing that the citizen
shall be well born as well as well educated. If the newborn child is a citizen of the State in which he is born,
he is equally a citizen of the United States, in which he
is also born. Both governmental entities have a direct
and practical interest in the new citizen. Undoubtedly
the child as life advances will have many relations to the
social unit, as to which the State is solely competent to
deal. But it is equally true that as a citizen of the United
States the new citizen will, if he lives, have many relations to the Federal Government as voter, taxpayer, and
possible soldier, as to which the government is legally

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Argument for Massachusetts.

competent to deal. Both the Nation and the States,
therefore, have a direct and practical interest that the
citizen shall not only have a "mens sana" but that it
shall also be "in corpore sano," and the latter consideration of a healthy, vigorous life not infrequently depends
upon the conditions of birth. Moreover, the mothers of
America give to both State and Nation their future citizens, and it seems a strange doctrine to contend that
while the State has a legitimate interest in the preservation of women from the perils of maternity, the United
States has not an equal interest.
I have already quoted from the wise words of Washington in his final message to Congress, in recommending the
establishment of a national university for the wise education of the American youth. He recognized the direct
interest that the United States has in the intellectual welfare of its citizens; and, if it has such interest, why has it
not an equal interest in the physical welfare of its future
citizens?
The law presents another method of co6peration between the Nation and the States with respect to the general welfare.
The time is past, if any such time ever were, when our
Government can be divided into two noncommunicating
compartments. If separate compartments at all, the
potent agencies of steam and electricity have made them
communicating. Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308,
322.
Mr. Alexander Lincoln, Assistant Attorney General,
with whom Mr. Jay R. Benton, Attorney General, was on
the brief, for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
I. The act is unconstitutional. It purports to vest in
agencies of the Federal Government powers which are
almost wholly undefined, in matters relating to maternity
and infancy, and to authorize appropriations of federal
funds for the purposes of the act.

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Massachusetts.

262 U. S.

Section 8 provides that "any State desiring to receive
the benefits of this Act shall, by its agency described in
section 4, submit to the Children's Bureau detailed plans
for carrying out the provisions of this Act within such
State, which plafis shall be subject to the approval of the
board." What are "the provisions of this Act" to which
this section refers? We find none except the statement
of the purpose of the act, that it is for the promotion of
the welfare and hygiene of maternity and infancy. The
"detailed plans" then, except in so far as their provisions
are otherwise limited by the act, may contain any provisions which may reasonably be thought to be suitable
for the accomplishment of that purpose. There are certain limitations restricting the power of state or federal
agents to enter' homes, or to take charge of children
against the objection of parents or others having custody
of them, and preserving the right of parents and others in
similar relations to decide concerning the treatment or
correction to be applied. Moneys to be appropriated by
the States are not to be used for maternity or infancy pensions or gratuities. But otherwise the field is open; the
plans may contain any provisions reasonably adaptive to
the purpose stated.
Many examples may be given and were stated in the
debates on the bill in Congress of regulations which may
be imposed under the act. The forced registration of
pregnancy, governmental prenatal examination of expectant mothers, restrictions on the right of a woman to secure the services of a midwife or physician of her own
selection, are measures to which the people of those States
which accept its provisions may be subjected. There is
nothing which prohibits the payment of subsidies out of
federal appropriations. Insurance of mothers may be made
compulsory. The teaching of birth control and physical
inspection of persons about to marry may be required.
By § 4 the Children's Bureau is given all necessary
powers to co6perate with the state agencies in the admin-

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Argument for Massachusetts.

istration of the act. Hence it is given the power to assist

in the enforcement of the plans submitted to it, and for
that purpose by its agents to go into the several States
and to do those acts for which the plans submitted may
provide. As to what those plans shall provide the final
arbiters are the Bureau and the Board. The fact that it
was considered necessary in explicit terms to preserve
from invasion by federal officials the right of the parent
to the custody and care of his child and the sanctity of
his home shows how far reaching are the powers which
were intended to be granted by the act.
On the other hand, the freedom of action of the States
in the same field is largely controlled by the requirements
that the state agencies shall submit to the Children's Bureau detailed plans for carrying out the provisions of the
act and shall make reports of their operations and expenditures, which plans and reports must be approved as
a prerequisite to the receiving of appropriations; and the
States are also required to make appropriations .to match
federal appropriations, the expenditure of which is subject to the same supervision. No effective control is secured to the States by § 14, providing that "This Act
shall be construed as intending to secure to the various
States control of the administration of this Act within
their respective States, subject only to the provisions and
purposes of this Act," for the powers of the federal
agencies under the act are in no degree curtailed by that
provision.
(1) The act is invalid because it assumes powers not
granted to Congress and usurps the local police power.
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 405; United
States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S.542, 549-551.
This Court has several times declared that the power
of the States to regulate their internal affairs and to provide for the general welfare of their people is inherent
and exclusive, and has never been surrendered to the

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Massachusetts.

262 U. S.

United States. New York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102; In re
Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46;
Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251; Lane County v.
Oregon, 7 Wall. 71; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27;
Keller v. United States, 213 U. S. 138; Federalist, No. 45.
It appears from the debates in Congress that the proponents of this measure have attempted to defend it on
the ground that Congress under the Constitution has
power to provide for the general welfare of the people of
the United States. The words "general welfare" occur
twice in the Constitution, once in the preamble and once
in Art. I, § 8. The preamble, however, contains no grant
of power. It is a mere statement of the purposes effected
by the Constitution itself. Jacobson v. Massachusetts,
197 U. S. 11; Story, Const., 5th ed., § 462.
We pass, therefore, to a consideration of Art. I, § 8. It
is plain that the words "to pay the debts and provide for
the common defence and general welfare of the United
States" are not a substantive grant of power, but a qualification of the first enumerated power "to lay and collect
taxes, duties, imposts and excises." 5 Elliot's Debates,
pp. 378, 451, 462, 476, 477, 506, 507, 543; I Curtis, Const.
History- of United States, pp. 518-521, 728 note, 731;
Loughborough v. Blake, 5 Wheat. 317; Ward v. Maryland,
12 Wall. 418; United States v. Boyer, 85 Fed. 425; Story,
Const., 5th ed., §§ 906-911; Miller, Const. of United
States, pp. 229-231.
The source of the power to make appropriations, it. is
generally conceded, is to be found in the grant of the
taxing power. Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; United
States v. Realty Co., 163 U. S. 427; Story, Const., 5th ed.,
§§ 923, 976.
The defendants, indeed, contend that the power to
make apropriations may be derived also from Art. IV,
§ 3, el. 2; that this clause broadly empowers Congress
to dispose of any of the financial resources of the Federal

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Argument for Massachusetts.

Government, and that therefore the power to make appropriations from the general funds is almost without
limit. But this provision has never been interpreted as
having so broad a scope. It is regarded as applying to the
public lands and not to funds in the Treasury. In De
Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, 196, it is called "the territorial clause." Cf. Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92;
Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393; Kansas v. Colorado,
206 U. S. 46; Light v. United States, 220 U. S. 523.
The controversy has not been whether the power to
appropriate is broader than the taxing power, but how
both powers may be affected by the general welfare clause.
Hamilton held that, under the general welfare clause,
the revenues of the United States can be raised or appropriated for any public purpose connected with the
general welfare of the United States. This doctrine was
stated in his Report on Manufactures, in 1791 (Story
Const., 5th ed., § 978). It was adopted and followed by
Story (§§ 975-992). Madison, on the other hand, held
that the general welfare clause is merely descriptive of
and limited by the specific grants of power to Congress
contained in § 8, and that the power to tax and appropriate is therefore confined to the enumerated powers.
Madison expressed this view in the Federalist, No. 41,
and the statement there made must be presumed to have
had-some effect in obtaining the ratification of the Constitution by the States. He renewed the same statement
in his message vetoing a bill for internal improvements,
March 3, 1817 (4 Elliot's Debates, pp. 468-470), and in a
letter to Andrew Stevenson, dated November 27, 1830
(4 Madison's Works, pp. 120-139). Madison's view was
supported and emphasized by Jefferson, as stated in his
Opinion on the Constitutionality of a National Bank,
February 15, 1791 (Federalist, ed. by Paul L. Ford, pp.
651-655). See Tucker Const. of United States, §§ 222231.

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Massachusetts.

262 U. S.

The view that the general welfare clause, in its effect
on the power to tax and appropriate, is limited by the
substantive grants of power which follow, is at least consistent with a reasonable interpretation of § 8. If the
grant of the taxing power had been retained in its original
form, without the qualifying clauses, there could have
been little doubt but that the power either to tax or to
appropriate revenue could have been exercised only for
purposes within the field of the enumerated powers. The
power to tax is an auxiliary power coextensive with the
general legislative powers of government. Lowell v. Boston, 111 Mass. 454; Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall.
655; Northern Liberties v. St. John's Church, 13 Pa. St.
104.
The qualifying clauses, however, as matter of history
were not added to extend the taxing power. Modification was proposed in order that there might be an express provision for payment of the debts of the United
States, and one purpose being added it was necessary to
make some reference to other necessary purposes, to
avoid the possibility of a construction which would exclude them. The remaining enumerated powers all relate to matters of the common defence or general welfare
of the United States. "Common defence" and "general
welfare" were therefore apt words to describe objects of
taxation which would include all purposes for the promotion of which Congress, in § 8, was given substantive
power to provide. If those words are to be construed
as having been used with that intention, then the objects
of the powers expressly granted (with the implied powers
which flow from them) are particulars for which alone
Congress has the power to tax and to make expenditures.
Story, Const., 5th ed., § 930; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1, 199; Dobbins v. Commissionersof Erie County, 16 Pet.
435; Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533; Child Labor
Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20. The question was reserved in

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Argument for Massachusetts.

Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, and in United States v.
Realty Co., 163 U. S. 427.
The objections to the act go further in that the proposed appropriations 4re not general in their application,
but are confined to those States which accept the act and
appropriate their own funds to be used for its purposes.
Hamilton in his Report on Manufactures, cited above,
although contending for the broad power of appropriation,
says: "The only qualification of the generality of the
phrase in question, which seems to be admissible, is this,
that the object to which an appropriation of money is to
be made must be general and not local,-its operation extending in fact, or by possibility, throughout the Union,
and not being confined to a particular spot ". Story,
Const., 5th ed., § 978; Tucker, Const., § 225.
It must be doubtful whether on any theory Congress
has the power to appropriate to the States, according to a
fixed method of apportionment, revenues raised from the
people of the United States for national purposes. But
an appropriation by Congress discriminating between
States which accept its conditions and make appropriations to match and States which do not, it is submitted,
is on its face purely arbitrary, having no legitimate relation to the general welfare of the country, and cannot be
for the "general welfare of the United States ". Would
any one say for example that Congress could appropriate
money for the maintenance of post office facilities or for
the pay of federal judges in those States only which should
contribute equally towards such expenses, thereby manifestly attempting to coerce the States into contributing to
the support of the United States Government? Such a
proposition would seem to be absurd.
An examination of acts of Congress which have been
referred to in debates as examples of legislation resting
for its validity on the general welfare clause, and of other
acts which may be considered to belong in the same class,
51826 o23---30

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Massachusetts.

262 U. S.

will, it is believed, show that there has not been in the
past any intentional reliance by Congress on the general
welfare clause for support, but that, on the contrary,
legislation which touches upon the *alth, morals, education and prosperity of the people, of .the United States
has been founded on, and in many cases upheld by the
Court as an exercise of, some specific power contained in
the Constitution. It will be strikingly evident, however,
that the amount of such legislation has increased greatly
in recent years, and that it is now taking a prominent
place in the field of congressional action. There is now
exhibited what may be conservatively called a tendency,
with regard to many subjects of internal police regulation; towards nationalization of such subjects (to adopt
the expression used by this Court in Heisler v. Thomas
Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245).
A number of statutes relating to the public health or
morals have been upheld by this Court as having been
passed either in the exercise of the taxing power, or of
the power over interstate and foreign commerce, or of the
power to regulate the use of the mails. The Court has:
gone far in some cases to sustain such acts, where the
inference was reasonable that the purpose of the act was
to impose a regulation in a matter not subject to the
control of Congress, but the Court declined to interfere
for the reason that it was not within the judicial power
to inquire into the purposes or motives of the legislative
branch of the government. Instances of such acts and
of decisions holding them constitutional are the follow-

ing:
Oleomargarine Acts: In re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526; McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27. Lottery Acts: Ex
parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727; In re Rapier, 143 U. S. 110;
Lottery Case, 188 U. S.321. Pure Food and Drug Act:
Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States, 220 U. S. 45. White
Slave Traffic Act: Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308;

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Argument for Massachusetts.

Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S. 470. Harrison Narcotic Drug Act: United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S.
394; United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S.86. Acts regulating interstate transportation of intoxicating liquors:
Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242
U. S. 311; United States v. Hill, 248 U. S. 420.
In more recent cases, however, the Court has shown
that there are limits to the power of Congress to pass
legislation purporting to be based on one of the powers
expressly granted to Congress which in fact usurps the
reserved powers of the States, and that laws showing
on their face detailed regulation of a matter wholly
within the police power of the States will be held to be
unconstitutional although they purport to be passed in
the exercise of some constitutional power. Hammer v.
Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251; Child Labor Tax Case, 259
U. S.20; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S.44.
Various bureaus and boards have been established by
Congress and appropriations made for investigations and
reports on different subjects. Among these may be mentioned: The Bureau of Education, the Geological Survey,
the Bureau of Mines, the Weather Bureau, the Bureau
of Animal Industry, the Bureau of Plant Industry, the
Bureau of Markets, the Bureau of Soils, the Bureau of
Fisheries, the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Children's
Bureau, the Public Health Service, and the Smithsonian
Institution. There is no express provision of the Constitution giving Congress the power to establish offices and
make appropriations for the collection of valuable information. The power of Congress to make such provision, however, may well be implied from the powers
expressly granted and the power, given by Art. I, § 8,
"to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into execution the foregoing powers, and
all other powers vested by this Constitution in the government of the United States or in any department or

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Massachusetts.

262 U. S.

officer thereof." In many respects the information thus
collected may be useful for carrying into execution the
express powers of the Federal Government, and the acts
referred to may be sustainable within the rule laid down
in McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421. See
United States v. Gettysburg Electric Ry., 160 U. S.

668, 680-683.
It should be observed that such acts as these constitute
no interference with the rights of the States reserved by
the Tenth Amendment.
The act is not made valid by the circumstance that
federal powers are to be exercised only with respect to
those States which accept the act, for Congress cannot
assume, and state legislatures cannot yield, the powers reserved to the States by the Constitution. Message of
President Monroe, May 4, 1822; 4 Elliot's Debates, p.
525; Pollard'sLessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212; EscanabaCo.
v. Chicago, 107 U. S.678; Coyle v. Oklahoma, 221 U. S.
559; Cincinnativ. Louisville.& Nashville R. R. Co., 223
U. S.390.
(2) The act is invalid because it imposes on each State
an illegal option either to yield a part of its powers reserved by the Tenth Amendment or to give up its share
of appropriations under the act.
A statute attempting, by imposing conditions upon a
general privilege, to exact a waiver of a constitutional
right, is null and void. Harrisonv. St. Louis & San Francisco R. R. Co., 232 U. S.318; Terral v. Burke Construction Co., 257 U. S.529.
(3) The act is invalid because it sets up a system of
government by co6peration between the Federal Government and certain of the States, not provided by the
Constitution.
Congress cannot make laws for the States, and it cannot delegate to the States the power to make laws for the
United States. In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545; Knicker-

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Argument for Massachusetts.

bocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149; Opinion of the
Justices, 239 Mass. 606.
Each sovereignty executes its own laws and not the laws
of any other. The Constitution provides, by Art. II, § 1,
that the executive power shall be vested in the President.
The laws passed by Congress are in theory executed by the
President, although they may be administered by departments, bureaus and commissions established by Congress.
Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498; United States v. Farden,
99 U. S. 10; Wolseyv. Chapman, 101 U. S. 755; Runkle v.'
United States, 122 U. S. 543; Jones v. United States, 137
U. S. 202; 7 Ops. Atty. Gen. 453.
The powers and duties of all federal bodies and officials
are to administer federal law, and that law alone. In the
performance of their official duties they have no power to
administer state laws. The Constitution, Art. II, § 3, requires the President to "take care that the laws be faithfully executed ",-that is the laws of the United States.
8 Ops. Atty. Gen. 8, 11.
The Constitution does not contemplate a government
by coSperation between the United States and the several
States in the enforcemeat of joint laws. On the contrary
the two governments, federal and state, are entirely distinct, each being supreme in its separate sphere. Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113; Matter of Heff, 197 U. S. 488.
"The Constitution, in all its provisions, looks to an indestructible Union, composed of indestructible States."
Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 725; Keller v. United States,
213 U. S. 138, 149.
A system of government by co6peration between the
United States and some of the States, from which others
are excluded, is still more objectionable.
The proposition here made does not go to the length
of asserting that there may not be coSperation between
the Federal Government and the States in the enforcement of their respective laws where they are not in con-

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1922. Argument for Massachusetts.

262 U. S.

•flict, or that Congress may not make appropriations condifioned on expenditures by States, municipalities or other
contributors for projects in which each has a legitimate
interest. But co6peration between the Federal Government and States which match appropriations, in the
preparation and enforcement of "plans" which are intended to have the force of laws emanating jointly from
both sovereignties,--co~iperation in activities which have
to do with the internal affairs of the States and have no
relation to the enumerated powers of Congress, is quite
a different matter.
The act is invalid because it purports to delegate congressional powers to state agencies and administrative
boards.
II. Massachusetts has an interest in the case presented
sufficient to entitle it to sue as party plaintiff.
(1) The imposition on the plaintiff of an option either
to yield a part of its powers reserved by the Tenth Amendment or to give up its share of appropriations under the
act gives the plaintiff a sufficient interest to maintain
this suit.
If the act empowered federal officials to administer
and enforce provisions for prorhoting the welfare and
hygiene of maternity and infancy in the several States
without their consent, it would be unconstitutional, if the
plaintiff's contention is sound, as an invasion of the reserved powers of the States. If so the plaintiff would
clearly have an interest enabling it to maintain a suit to
prevent such violation of its rights by the enforcement of
the act. Ableman v. Booth, 21 How. 506; Gordon v.
United States, 117 U. S. 697; Matter of Heff, 197 U. S.
488; South Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S. 437; Missouri v. Holland, 252 U. S.416; Harrison v. St. Louis &
San FranciscoR. R., 232 U. S.318; Terral v. Burke Construction Co., 257 U. S.529.
(2) The establishment by the act of a system of government by coiperation between the United States and

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Argumen; for Massachusetts.

the States accepting the act, from which the plaintiff is
excluded, gives the plaintiff a sufficient interest, in order
that it may be restored to its position as one of the States
in a Federal Union. Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700; South
Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S. 437.
(3) The exclusion of the plaintiff from the benefits of
appropriations which are not general, but are made for
the benefit of certain of the States only, gives the plaintiff
a sufficient interest.
(4) The fact that revenues available for state taxation
are diminished by federal taxation imposed to execute an
unconstitutional law gives the plaintiff a sufficient interest. Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113. Cf. Missouri v.
Holland, 252 U. S. 416.
(5) The plaintiff is also interested in maintaining the
suit as the representative of its citizens because their
rights are invaded.
The question whether a State may sue in this Court by
original bill as parens patriae or representative of its
citizens was presented but not settled in Louisiana v.
Texas, 176 U. S. 1. But later decisions have made it
plain that such suits by States will lie for the protection
of the personal and property rights and welfare of their
citizens generally. Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208;
Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125; s. c. 206 U. S. 46;
Georgiav. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230; New York
v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296.
Cases holding that the original jurisdiction of this
Court does not extend to suits by States for the protection of their citizens against violation of their laws by
others are readily distinguishable. Oklahoma v. Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 277; Oklahoma v.
Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 290.
III. The suit is properly brought against the defendants named in the bill and they may be enjoined from

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Massachusetts.

262 U. S.

proceeding under the act although they are federal officials.
PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605; Wilson v.
New, 243 U. S. 332; Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S.
251; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44; Missouri v. Holland,
252 U. S. 416; National ProhibitionCases, 253 U. S. 350.
IV. The suit involves a justiciable controversy.
Since the bill shows that the defendants have proceeded
and are proceeding to enforce the act, there is manifestly
an actual controversy involving the constitutional question in the determination of the plaintiff's right; and the
question whether an act of Congress is in violation of the
reserved powers of the States is clearly justiciable. Rhode
Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657; Missouriv. Holland,
252 U. S. 416; National ProhibitionCases, 253 U. S. 350.
The controversy does not call for the decision of a political question. Georgia v. Stanton, 6 Wall. 50, distinguished.
The doctrine that a State cannot sue to protet its sovereign rights, where rights of property are not involved,
has now been completely refuted, and it has been said that
in such cases jurisdiction will be accepted where the controversy can be judicially determined, for the reasons first
stated by the Court in Rhode Island v. Massachusetts,
supra. Virginia v. West Virginia, 11 Wall. 39; Kansas v.
Colorado, 206 U. S. 46; Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co.,
206 U. S. 230; Missouri v. Holland, 252 U. S. 416.
There is one class of cases where the Court has uni-'
formly declined to act. Those are cases where the Court
has been asked to decide what is the established government in a State, and to enforce the constitutional guaranty of a republican form of government under Const.,
Art. IV, § 4. Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1; Taylor & Marshall v. Beckham, 178 U. S. 548; Pacific Tel. Co. v. Oregon, 223 U. S. 118; Davis v. Ohio, 241 U. S. 565; Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219.
V. The suit is within the original jurisdiction of this
Court.

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

473

Argument for Massachusetts.

The defendants named in the bill are citizens of other
States who occupy the offices described therein. The suit
is, therefore, a controversy of a civil nature in which a
State is plaintiff and citizens of other States, but not of
one other State, are defendants. Const., Art. III, § 2, extends the judicial power of the United States to controversies "between a State and citizens of another State ",
while § 13 of the Judiciary Act and all subsequent reenactments use the words "between a State and citizens of
other States." This controversy then is one of which this
Court has original jurisdiction. The words "citizens of
another State ", in the Constitution, do not limit the jurisdiction to cases where the defendants are citizens of
one other State. Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127
U. S.265; Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700; Alabama v. Burr,
115 U. S.413; National ProhibitionCases, 253 U. S.350.
If the act is unconstitutional as alleged, the defendants
who have been acting individually or collectively under
color of its authority cannot justify their action, and are
subject to judicial restraint. PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson,
223 U. S.605. The fact that some of the defendants have
been purporting to act as a board is immaterial. If their
action is unauthorized they may be individually restrained. Board of Liquidationv. McComb, 92 U. S.531;
Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S.1; Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S.466; Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. R.
Co., 244 U. S.499.
The Bureau and the Board, are not indispensable parties without which the suit may not proceed because:
First, they are not separate entities. Cf. United States v.
Strang, 254 U. S.491; Sloan Shipyards v. U. S. Emergency Fleet Corp., 258 U. S.549. Secondly, if they were
separate entities, the mere fact that powers and duties
under the act are delegated to them does not make them
indispensable parties. There are many cases where persons to whom powers and duties are assigned under

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Massachusetts.

262 U. S.

statutes alleged to be unconstitutional have not been parties to suits to restrain their enforcement, and it has never
been hinted that the omission constituted a defect. See
e. g., Hill v. Wallace, 259,U. S. 44.
VI. The bill of complaint is not defective for want of
essential parties defendant. Reagan v. Farmers' Loan
& Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362; Shields v. Barrow, 17 How.
130; Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152; Barney v.
Baltimore City, 6 Wall. 280. Texas v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 258 U. S.158, distinguished.
It has never been suggested that an original bill by a
State in this Court to restrain action under an act of Congress alleged to be unconstitutional should be brought
formally in behalf of other States or that other States generally should be joined as parties. The practice has been
to the contrary. Missouriv. Holland, 252 U. S.416; National Prohibition Cases, 253 U. S. 350; Western Union
Tel. Co. v. Andrews, 216 U. S. 165; Greene v. Louisville
& InterurbanR. R. Co., 244 U. S.499; Osborn v. United
States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy,
140 U. S. 1; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S.123; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33.
VII. Growth and danger of "Federal Aid" legislation.
The bill contains allegations, admitted by the motion to
dismiss, that so-called "Federal Aid" legislation by Congress, by which appropriations are made by Congress for
local and not national purposes, to States which accept
the federal grants and appropriate equal amounts to be
spent under federal direction, has been found to be an
effective way to induce States to yield a portion of their
sovereign rights; that bills of a similar nature calling for
expenditures of immense sums of money, such as an
Education Bill and a bill to create a Department of Public Welfare, are'now pending or proposed, and that, unless
checked by this Court on the ground of unconstitutionality, no limit can be foreseen to the amounts which may

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Argument for Frothingham.

thus be expended for matters of local concern, resulting
in the establishment of large federal bureaus with many
officers for the performance of duties entirely outside the
purview of the Constitution.
The case is one of large import. If the issue should
seem to the Court in any respect doubtful, then, as bearing on the intention of the framers of the Constitution,
the purpose of which was to form an enduring Union of
sovereign States, we conceive it to be permissible and
proper to call attention to the magnitude and extent of
the forces by which, through the medium of this modern
scheme of legislation, the structure of our Federal Government is being broken down.
Mr. William L. Rawls, with whom Mr. George Arnold
Frick and Mr. William H. Lamar were on the brief, for
appellant in No. 962.
It has been held with practical uniformity by the Courts
of the various States that a taxpayer has a sufficient interest to entitle him to maintain a suit against a public
officer for the purpose of enjoining an unauthorized payment of public funds or disposition of public property. II
Cooley, Taxation, 1435; IV Dillon, Municipal Corporations, § 1579.
This right of a taxpayer to enjoin such action on the
part of a state or municipal officer has been recognized by
this Court. Crampton v. Zabriskie, 101 U. S. 601, 609;
Brown v. Trousdale, 138 U. S. 389; Calvin v. Jacksonville,
158 U. S. 456; Ogden City v. Armstrong, 168 U. S. 224,
236; Hawke v. Smith, 253 U. S. 221, 224.
This Court has in other cases permitted a proceeding to
be maintained by one of a large class affected by a law
alleged to be invalid, for the purpose of enjoining a public
officer from executing it. Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247
U. S. 251; Truax V. Raich, 239 U. S. 33; Millard v.
Roberts,.202 U. S. 429.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
. Argument for Frothingham.

262 U. S.

The right of a taxpayer to maintain a suit to enjoin an
alleged unauthorized payment of public moneys from the
Treasury of the United States had been expressly adjudicated by the Court of Appeals of the District. Roberts v.
Bradfield, 12 App. D. C. 453. That case came upon appeal
to this Court and was decided upon its merits, the question of the right of a taxpayer to maintain such a suit not
being discussed. 175 U. S. 291.
It is submitted that there is no distinction, so far as the
right of a taxpayer to maintain a suit is concerned, between an officer of a State who is about to make an unauthorized expenditure of. public money and an officer of
the Federal Government who threatens to do the same
thing. Both are subject to the law and must find valid
authority for all of their acts. In so far as they exceed
the authority conferred upon them, their acts are void.
This principle is of uniform application. Mott v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 30 Pa. St. 9.
This Court in numerous decisions has laid down the rule
that all governmental officers or agencies are subject to
judicial restraint where they attempt to act in excess of
authority. Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 739;
Board of Liquidation v. McComb, 92 U. S. 531; United
States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196; Virginia Coupon Cases, 114
U. S. 311; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1; Scott
v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107; Reagan v. Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466;
Ex Parte Young, 209 U. S. 123.
Likewise, where a sufficient interest in the plaintiff has
been shown, this Court has always recognized his right
to maintain a suit to enjoin the head of a department of
the Federal Government from committing an unauthorized act to the plaintiff's injury. Noble v. Union River
Logging R. R., 147 U. S. 165; PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605.
The appellant maintains that the -so-called SheppardTowner Act is null and void because it is in violation of

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Argument for Frothingham.

the Constitution of the United States and no authority
is conferred thereby upon the Secretary of the Treasury
to make any of the payments mentioned therein. If
these payments are made, this plaintiff will suffer a direct
injury in that she will be subjected to taxation to pay her
proportionate part of such unauthorized payments. She,
therefore, has an interest sufficient under the practically
uniform decisions of the courts of this country to enable
her to maintain a proceeding to enjoin the making of
these payments. Her relation to these funds is exactly
that of a cestui que trust to funds held by his trustee.
Her injury would be irreparable because it cannot be calculated. She can resort only to equity to maintain her
right.
The proper parties are before the Court.
The act in question is invalid because it attempts to
authorize the appropriation of money out of the Treasury
of the United States for purposes wholly outside of any
authority or power conferred upon the Government of
the United States by the Constitution.
Granting, for the sake of the argument, that Congress
had the power to appropriate money out of the Treasury
of the United States for the purpose specified therein, the
act is still unconstitutional and void because its provisions go beyond the exercise of such power of appropriation and constitute substantive legislation with respect
to matters manifestly beyond the legislative power conferred upon Congress by the Constitution.
The act is invalid because it amounts to a delegation to
a subordinate agency by Congress of legislative power in
violation of the Constitution.
Mr. J. Weston Allen and Mr. Edwin H. Abbot, Jr.,
filed a supplemental brief on behalf of appellant in No.
962.
Congress has no power to appropriate public money to
promote the welfare and hygiene of maternity and infancy in the several States.

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

Article I, § 8, cl. 18, restricts the power to appropriate
public money, to ends within the scope of the powers
vested by the Constitution in the United States.
To hold that the United States may appropriate money
to execute the reserved powers of the States is to confer,
by construction, a new substantive power.
The act is invalid as an attempt to make a virtual
amendment of the Constitution by compact with the
States.
Messrs. Charles I. Dawson, George W. Woodruff, John
R. Saunders, Clifford L. Hilton, Russell W. Fleming, S. B.
Townsend, Jr., U. S. Lesh, J. S. Utley, John W. Murphy,
and C. C. Crabbe, Attorneys General respectively of
Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Minnesota, Colorado,
Delaware, Indiana, Arkansas, Arizona and Ohio, by leave
of court, filed a brief as amici curia, on behalf of those
States, in No. 24, Original.
Mr. Charles K. Burdick, by leave of court, filed a
brief as amicus curie on behalf of the Association of
Land-Grant Colleges, in No. 24, Original.
Mr. Everett P. Wheeler and Mr. Waldo G. Morse, by
leave of court, filed a brief as amici curio, in both cases.
Mr. Henry St. George Tucker, by leave of court, filed
a brief as amicus curia, in No. 962.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases were argued and will be considered aid
disposed of together. The first is an original suit in this
Court. The other was brought in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia. That court dismissed the
bill and its decree was affirmed by the District Court of
Appeals. Thereupon the case was brought here by ap-

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

479

Opinion of the Court.

peal. Both cases challenge the constitutionality of the
Act of November 23, 1921, c. 135, 42 Stat. 224, commonly called the Maternity Act. Briefly, it provides for
an initial appropriation and thereafter annual appropriations for a period of five years, to be apportioned among
such of the several States as shall accept and comply with
its provisions, for the purpose of coiperating with them
to reduce maternal and infant mortality and protect the
health of mothers and infants. It creates a bureau to
administer the act in coiperation with state agencies,
which are required to make such reports concerning their
operations and expenditures as may be prescribed by the
federal bureau. Whenever that bureau shall determine
that funds have not been properly expended in respect of
any State, payments may be withheld.
It is asserted that these appropriations are for purposes
not national, but local to the States, and together with
numerous similar appropriations constitute an effective
means of inducing the States to yield a portion of their
sovereign rights. It is further alleged that the burden
of the appropriations provided by this act and similar
legislation falls unequally upon the several States, and
rests largely upon the industrial States, such as Massachusetts; that the act is a usurpation of power not
granted to Congress by the Constitution--an attempted
exercise of the power of local self-government reserved to
the States by the Tenth Amendment; and that the defendants are proceeding to carry the act into operation.
In the Massachusetts case it is alleged that the plaintiff's rights and powers as a sovereign State and the rights
of its citizens have been invaded and usurped by these
expenditures and acts; and that, although the State has
not accepted the act, its constitutional rights are infringed
by the passage thereof and the imposition upon the State
of an illegal and unconstitutional option either to yield to
the Federal Government a part of its reserved rights or

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

-

262 U. S.

lose the share which it would otherwise be entitled to receive of the moneys appropriated. In the Frothingham
case plaintiff alleges that the effect of the statute will be
to take her property, under the guise of taxation, without
due process of law.
We have reached the conclusion that the cases must be
disposed of for want of jurisdiction without considering
the merits of the constitutional questions.
In the first case, the State of Massachusetts presents no
justiciable controversy either in its own behalf or as the
representative of its citizens. The appellant in the second suit has no such interest in the subject-matter, nor
is any such injury inflicted or threatened, as will enable
her to sue.
First. The State of Massachusetts in its own behalf, in
effect, complains that the act in question invades the local
concerns of the State, and is a usurpation of power, viz:
the power of local self government reserved to the States.
Probably, it would be sufficient to point out that the
powers of the State are not invaded, since the statute
imposes no obligation but simply extends an option which
the State is free to accept or reject. But we do not rest
here. Under Article III, § 2, of the Constitution, the
judicial power of this Court extends "to controversies
.

.

.

between a State and citizens of another State"

and the Court has original jurisdiction "in all cases
*

.

6 in which a State shall be party."

The effect

of this is not to confer jurisdiction upon the Court merely
because a State is a party, but only where it is a party to
a proceeding of judicial cognizance. Proceedings not of
a justiciable character are outside the contemplation of
the constitutional grant. In Wisconsin v. Pelican Insurance Co., 127 U. S. 265, 289, Mr. Justice Gray, speaking
for the Court, said:
"As to 'controversies between a State and citizens of
another State.' The object of vesting in the courts of

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Opinion of the Court.

the United States jurisdiction of suits by one State against
the citizens of another was to enable such controversies
to be determined by a national tribunal, and thereby to
avoid the partiality, or suspicion of partiality, which
might exist if the plaintiff State were compelled to resort
to the courts of the State of which the defendants were
citizens. Federalist No. 80; Chief Justice Jay, in Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, 475; Story on the Constitution, §§ 1638, 1682. The grant is of 'judicial power,' and
was not intended to confer upon the courts of the United
States jurisdiction of a suit or prosecution by the one
State, of such a nature that it could not, on the settled
principles of public and international law, be entertained
by the judiciary of the other State at all."
That was an action brought by the State of Wisconsin
to enforce a judgment of one of its own courts for a penalty against a resident of another State, and, in pursuance
of the doctrine announced by the language just quoted,
this Court declined to assume jurisdiction upon the ground
that the courts of no country will execute the penal laws
of another.
In an earlier case it was held that a proceeding by mandamus by one State to compel the Governor of another
to surrender a fugitive from justice was not within the
powers of the judicial department, since the duty of the
Governor in the premises was in the nature of a moral
rather than a legal obligation. Kentucky v. Dennison,
24 How. 66, 109. In New Hampshire v. Louisiana;
New York v. Louisiana, 108 U. S.76, this Court declined
to take jurisdiction of actions to enforce payment of the
bonds of another State for the benefit of the assignors,
citizens of the plaintiff States. In Georgia v. Stanton, 6
Wall. 50, 75, and kindred cases, to which we shall presently refer, jurisdiction was denied in respect of questions
of a political or governmental character. On the other
hand, jurisdiction was maintained in Texas v. White, 7
51826°-2------31

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

Wall. 700; Floridav.Anderson, 91 U. S. 667; and Alabama
v. Burr, 115 U. S. 413, because proprietary rights were involved; in Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S.
230, 237, because the right of dominion of the State over
the air and soil within its domain was affected; in Missouri v. Holland, 252 U. S. 416, because, as asserted, there
was an invasion, by acts done and threatened, of the
quasi-sovereign right of the State to regulate the taking
of wild game within its borders; and in other cases because
boundaries were in dispute. It is not necessary to cite
additional cases. The foregoing, for present purposes,
sufficiently indicate the jurisdictional line of demarcation.
What, then, is the nature of the right of the State here
asserted and how is it affected by this statute? Reduced
to its simplest terms, it is alleged that the statute constitutes an attempt to legislate outside the powers granted to
Congress by the Constitution and within the field of local
powers exclusively reserved to the States. Nothing is
added to the force or effect of this assertion by the further
incidental allegations that the ulterior purpose of Congress thereby was to induce the States to yield a portion
of their sovereign rights; that the burden of the appropriations falls unequally upon the several States; and-that
there is imposed upon the States an illegal and unconstitutional option either to yield to the Federal Government
a part of their reserved rights or lose their share of the
moneys appropriated. But what burden is imposed upon
the States, unequally or otherwise? Certainly there is
none, unless it be the burden of taxation, and that falls
upon their inhabitants, who are within the taxing power
of Congress as well as that of the States where they reside.
Nor does the statute require the States to do or to yield
anything. If Congress enacted it with the ulterior purpose of tempting them to yield, that purpose may be
effectively frustrated by the simple expedient of not
yielding,

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

483

Opinion of the Court.

In the last analysis, the complaint of the plaintiff State
is brought to the naked contention that Congress has
usurped the reserved powers of the several States by the
mere enactment of the statute, though nothing has been
done and nothing is to be done without their consent;
and it is plain that that question, as it is thus presented, is
political and not judicial in character, and therefore is
not a matter which admits of the exercise of the judicial
power.
In Georgia v. Stanton, supra, this Court held that a
bill to enjoin the Secretary of War, and other officers,
from carrying into execution certain acts of Congress,
which it was asserted would annul and abolish the existing state government and establish another and different
one in its place, called for a judgment upon a political
question and presented no case within the jurisdiction
of the Court. Mr. Justice Nelson, speaking for the Court,
said (6 Wall. 77):
"That these matters, both as stated in the body of the
bill, and, in the prayers for relief, call for the judgment
of the court upon political questions, and, upon rights,
not of persons or property, but of a political character,
will hardly be denied. For the rights for the protection
of which our authority is invoked, are the rights of
sovereignty, of political jurisdiction, of government, of
corporate existence as a State, with all its constitutional
powers and privileges. No case of private rights or private property infringed, or in danger of actual or threatened infringement, is presented by the bill, in a judicial
form, for the judgment of the court."
In Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, an injunction
was sought to prevent certain acts of legislation from being carried into execution within the territory of the
Cherokee Nation of Indians, the original jurisdiction of
this Court being invoked on the ground that plaintiff was
a foreign nation. It was asserted that the acts in ques-

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

tion, if executed, would have the effect of subverting the
tribal government and subjecting the Indians to the
jurisdiction of the State of Georgia. It was held that the
Cherokee Nation could not be regarded as a foreign nation, within the meaning of the Judiciary Act, but Chief
Justice Marshall, delivering the opinion for the majority,
said, further (p. 20):
"That part of the bill which respects the land occupied
by the Indians, and prays the aid of the court to protect
their possession, may be more doubtful. The mere question of right might, perhaps, be decided by this court, in
a proper case, with proper parties. But the court is asked
to do more than decide on the title. The bill requires us
to control the legislature of Georgia, and to restrain the
exertion of its physical forbe. The propriety of such an
interposition by the court may be well questioned; it
savors too much of the exercise of political power, to be
within, the proper province of the judicial department."
And Mr. Justice Thompson, with whom Mr. Justice Story
concurred, in the course of an opinion, said (p. 75):
"It-is only where the rights of persons or property are
involved, and when such rights can be presented under
some judicial form of proceedings, that courts of justice
can interpose relief. This court can have no right to pronounce an abstract opinion upon the constitutionality of
a state law. Such law must be brought into actual or
threatened operation, upon rights properly falling under
judicial cognizance, or a remedy is not to be had here.".
See also Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1; Mississippi v. Johnson, 4 Wall. 475, 500; Pacific Telephone Co. v. Oregon,
223 U. S.118; Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S. 1, 23; Fairchild v. Hughes, 258 U. S.126.
It follows that in so far as the case depends upon the
assertion of a right on the part of the State to sue in its
own behalf we are without jurisdiction. In that aspect
of the case we are called upon to adjudicate, not rights of

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Opinion of the Court.

'person or property, not rights of dominion over physical
domain, not quasi-sovereign rights actually invaded or
threatened, but abstract questions of political power, of
sovereignty, of government. No rights of the State falling within the scope of the judicial power have been
brought within the actual or threatened operation of the
statute and this Court is as much without authority to
pass abstract opinions upon the constitutionality of acts
of Congress as it was held to be, in Cherokee Nation v.
Georgia, supra, of state statutes. If an alleged attempt
by congressional action to annul and abolish an existing
state government "with all its constitutional powers and
privileges," presents no justiciable issue, as was ruled in
Georgiav. Stanton, supra,no reason can be suggested why
it should be otherwise where the attempt goes no farther,
as it is here alleged, than to propose to share with the
State the field of state power.
We come next to consider whether the suit may be
maintained by the State as the representative, of its citizens. To this the answer is not doubtful. We need not
go so far as to say that a State may never intervene by
suit to protect its citizens against any form of enforcement of unconstitutional acts of Congress; but we are
clear that the right to do so does not arise here. Ordinarily, at least, the only way in which a State may afford
protection to its citizens in such cases is through the enforcement of its own criminal statutes, where that is appropriate, or by opening its courts to the injured persons
for the maintenance of civil suits or actions. But the
citizens of Massachusetts are also citizens of the United
States. It cannot be conceded that a State, as parens.
patriae, may institute judicial proceedings to protect citizens of the United States from the operation of the
statutes thereof. While the State, under some circumstances, may sue in that capacity for the protection of its
citizens (Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208, 241), it is no

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

part of its duty or power to enforce their rights in respectr
of their relations with the Federal Government. In that
field it is the United States, and not the State, which
represents them as parens patriae,when such representation becomes appropriate; and to the former, and not to
the latter, they must look for such protective measures
as flow from that status.
Second. The attack upon the statute in the Frothingham case is, generally, the same, but this plaintiff alleges
in addition that she is a taxpayer of the United States;
and her contention, though not clear, seems to be that
the effect of the appropriations complained of will be
to increase the burden of future taxation and thereby
take her property without due process of law. The right
of a taxpayer to enjoin thd execution of a federal appropriation act, on the ground that it is invalid and will result in taxation for illegal purposes, has never been passed
upon by this Court. In cases where it was presented, the
question has either been allowed to pass sub silentio or
the determination of it expressly withheld. Millard v.
Roberts, 202 U. S. 429, '438; Wilson v. Shaw, 204 U. S.
24, 31; Bradfield y. Roberts, 175 U. S. 291, 295. The case
last cited came here from the Court of Appeals of the
District o Columbia, and that court sustained the right
of the plaintiff to sue by treating the case as one directed
against the District of Columbia, and therefore subject
to the rule frequently stated by this Court, that resident
taxpayers may sue to enjoin an illegal use of the moneys
of a municipal corporation. Roberts v. Bradfield, 12
App. D. C. 453, 459-460. The interest of a taxpayer
of a municipality in the application of its moneys is
direct and immediate and the remedy by injunction to
prevent their misuse is not inappropriate. It is upheld
by a large number of state cases and is the rule of this
Court.' Crampton v. Zabriskie, 101 U. S. 601, 609.
Nevertheless, there are decisions to the contrary. See,

MASSACHUSETTS v. MELLON.
447

Opinion of the Court.

for example, Miller v. Grandy, 13 Mich. 540, 550. The
reasons which support the extension of the equitable
remedy to a single taxpayer in such cases are based upon
the peculiar relation of the corporate taxpayer to the
porporation, which is not without some resemblance to
that subsisting between stockholder and private corporation. IV Dillon Municipal Corporations, 5th ed., § 1580,
et 8eq. But the relation of a taxpayer of the United
States to the Federal Government is very different. His
interest in the moneys of the Treasury-partly realized
from taxation and partly from other sources--is shared
with millions of others; is comparatively minute and
indeterminable; and the effect upon future taxation, of
any payment out of the funds, so remote, fluctuating and
uncertain, that no basis is afforded for an appeal to the
preventive powers of a court of equity.
The administration of any statute, likely to produce
additional taxation to be imposed upon a vast number
of taxpayers, the extent of whose several liability is indefinite and constantly changing, is essentially a matter
of public and not of individual concern. If one taxpayer
may champion and litigate such a cause, then every other
taxpayer may do the same, not only in respect of the
statute here under review but also in respect of every
other appropriation act and statute whose administration requires the outlay of public money, and whose
validity may be questioned. The bare suggestion of such
a result, with its attendant inconveniences, goes far to
sustain the conclusion which we have reached, that a suit
of this character cannot be maintained. It is of much
significance that no precedent sustaining the right to
maintain suits like this has been called to our attention,
although, since the formation of the government, as an
examination of the acts of Congress will disclose, a large
number of statutes appropriating or involving the ex-

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

penditure of moneys for non-federal purposes have been
enacted and carried into effect.
, The functions of government under our system
are apportioned. To the legislative department has been committed the duty of making laws; to the executive the
duty of executing them; and to the judiciary the duty
of interpreting and applying them in cases properly
brought before the courts. The general rule is that
neither department may invade the province of the other
and neither may control, direct or restrain the action
of the other. We are not now speaking of the merely
ministerial duties of officials. Gaines v. Thompson, 7
Wall. 347. We have no power per se to review and annul
acts of Congress on the ground that they are unconstitutional. That question may, be considered only when the
justification for some direct injury suffered or threatened,
presenting a justiciable issue, is made to rest upon such
an act. Then the power exercised is that of ascertaining
and declaring the law applicable to the controversy. It
amounts to little more than the negative power to disregard an unconstitutional enactment, which otherwise
would stand in the way of the enforcement of a legal
right. The party who invokes the power must be able
to show not only that the statute is invalid but that
he has sustained or is immediately in danger of sustaining some direct injury as the result of its enforcement,
and not merely that he suffers in some indefinite way in
common with people generally. If a case for preventive
relief be presented the court enjoins, in effect, not the
execution of the statute, but the acts of the official, the
statute notwithstanding. Here the parties plaintiff have
no such case. Looking through forms of words to the
,substance of their complaint, it is merely that officials
of the executive department of the government are executing and will execute an act of Congress asserted to be
unconstitutional; and this we are asked to prevent. To

WILLARD CO. v. UNITED STATES.
447

Opinion of the Court.

do so would be not to decide a judicial controversy, but
to assume a position of authority over the governmental
acts of another and co-6qual department, an authority
which plainly we do not possess.
No. 24, Original, dismissed.
No. 962 affirmed.
WILLARD, SUTHERLAND & COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 209. Argued May 1, 2, 1923.-Decided June 4, 1923.
1. A contract for the purchase of coal by the Government at a stated
price per ton which does not require the Government to take, or
limit its demand to, any ascertainable quantity, is unenforceable,

for lack of consideration and mutuality. P. 492.
2. Such a contract, however, becomes valid and binding to the extent to which it is performed, and a party who, abandoning an
earlier protest, voluntarily delivers coal under the contract, is limited to the contract price, and cannot recover more from the United
States. P. 494.
56 Ct. Clms. 413, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims, denying the appellant's claim for the difference between the
market price of coal furnished the Navy and the price
stated in a contract.

Mr. Thomas Renaud Rutter and Mr. Gibbs L. Baker,
with whom Mr. Karl Knox Gartner, Mr. John A. Selby
and Mr. Clarence A. Miller were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Rufus S. Day, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This suit was brought to recover $3,650, being $3.65 per
ton for 1,000 tons of coal furnished the Navy. Appellant

