OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

reproduced, rather than a substitute property" (p. 1719),
-"
although such a substitute property, much less costly
than the existing plant, might furnish equal or- better
service, it is not reproduction of service, but of property,
that is under consideration; and clearly the estimate
should be of existing property created with public approval, rather than of a substituted property" (p. 1772).
If the aim were to ascertain the value (in its ordinary
sense) of the utility property, the enquiry would be, not
what it would cost to reproduce the identical property,
but what it would cost to establish a plant which could
render the service, or in other words, at what cost could
an equally efficient substitute be then produced. Surely
the cost of an equally efficient substitute must be the
maximum of the rate base, if prudent investment be
rejected as the measure. The utilities seem to claim that
the constitutional protection against confiscation guarantees them a return both upon unearned increment and
upon the cost of property rendered valueless by obsolescence.

DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS,
AS AGENT, ETC. v. FARMERS CO-OPERATIVE
EQUITY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.

No. 270.

Argued April 17, 18, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.

1. Solicitation of traffic by railroads in States remote from their
lines is part of the business of interstate transportation. P. 315.
2. A state statute which provides that any foreign corporation
having an agent in the State for the solicitation of freight and
passenger traffic over lines outside the State may be served with
summons by delivering a copy thereof to such agent, imposes an
unreasonable burden on interstate commerce and is void under the

DAVIS v. FARMERS CO-OPERATIVE CO.
312

313

Opinion of the Court.

Commerce Clause, as applied to an action brought against a railroad company' which neither owns nor operates a railroad within

the State, by a plaintiff who does not and did not reside there,
upon a cause of action which arose elsewhere out of a transaction
entered into elsewhere. Laws Minnesota, 1913, c. 218. P. 315.
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Reynolds, 255 U. S. 565,
and St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Alexander, 227 U. S. 218,
distinguished.
3. The Court notices judicially the large volume and importance of
litigation against interstate carriers on personal injury and freight
claims, and the heavy expense, and impairment of the carriers'
efficiency, entailed when the litigation is in jurisdictions remote
from where the cause of action arose-also that the burden imposed
on such carriers by the Minnesota statute here involved (supra)
is heavy, and that the resulting obstruction to interstate commerce
must be serious. P. 315.
4. Avoidance of waste, in interstate transportation, as well as maintenance of service, has become a direct concern of the public.
P. 317.
150 Minn. 534, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota affirming a judgment for damages for loss of grain
shipped between two points in Kansas.

Mr. GardinerLathrop and Mr. Homer W. Davis, with
whom Mr. Thomas F. Quinn and Mr. William T. Fanicy
were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Morton Barrows, with whom Mr. George H.
Lamar, Mr. Frederick M. Miner and Mr. Walter W.
Pattersonwere on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
A statute of Minnesota (Laws 1913, c. 218, p. 274;
General Statutes, 1913, ยง 7735) provides that:
"Any foreign corporation having an agent in this state
for the solicitation of freight and passenger traffic or either
thereof over its lines outside of this state, may be served

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

with summons by delivering a copy thereof to such
agent."
Whether this statute, as construed and applied, violates
the Federal Constitution is the only question for decision.
The Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Company is
a Kansas corporation engaged in interstate transportation. It does not own or operate any railroad in Minnesota.; but it maintains there an agent for solicitation of
traffic. In April, 1920, suit was brought by another Kansas corporation in a court of Minnesota against the Director General of Railroads, as agent, on a cause of action
arising under federal control. Service was made pursuant
to the Minnesota statute.' The recovery sought was for
loss of grain shipped under a bill of lading issued by the
carrier in Kansas for transportation over its line from one
point in that State to another. So far as appears the
transaction was in no way connected with Minnesota or
with the soliciting agency located there. Defendant appeared specially; claimed that, as to it, the statute authorizing service violated the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, as well as the
commerce clause; and moved to dismiss the suit for want
of jurisdiction. The motion was denied. After appropriate proceeding, the trial court entered final judgment
for plaintiff; its judgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of Minnesota, 150 Minn. 534; and the case is here
on writ of error under ยง 237 of the Judicial Code.
'The alleged cause of action having arisen during federal control,
the action was brought pursuant to ยง 206(a) of Transportation Act
1920, February 28, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 461, against the Director

General, as Agent. Acontract had been made with the carrier for the
conduct of litigation arising out of operation during federal control.
Hence, under ยง 206(b) process could be served upon the agent of the
company "if such agent . . is authorized by law to be served
with process in proceedings brought against such carrier." The question of the validity of the service is, thus, the same as if suit had
been brought against the company on such a cause of action arising
after federal control had terminated.

DAVIS v. FARMERS CO-OPERATIVE CO.
312

315

Opinion of the Court.

Solicitation of traffic by railroads, in States remote from
their lines, is a recognized part of the business of interstate transportation. McCall v. California,136 U. S.104.
As construed by the highest court of Minnesota, this
statute compels every foreign interstate carrier to submit
to suit there as a condition of maintaining a soliciting
agent within the State. Jurisdiction is not limited to
suits arising out of business transacted within Minnesota.
Compare Mitchell Furniture Co. v. Selden Breck Construction Co., 257 U. S. 213; Missouri Pacific R. R. Co. v.
Clarendon Boat Oar Co., 257 U. S.533; Chipman, Limited v. Thomas B. Jeffery Co., 251 U. S.373. It is asserted, whatever the nature of the cause of action, whereever it may have arisen, and although the plaintiff is not,
and never has been, a resident of the State. Armstrong
Co. v. New York Central R. R. Co., 129 Minn. 104; Lagergren v. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co., 130 Minn. 35; Rishmiller
v. Denver & Rio Grande R. R. Co., 134 Minn. 261; Merchants Elevator Co. v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 147
Minn. 188; Callaghan v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 148
Minn. 482. This condition imposes upon interstate commerce a serious and unreasonable burden which renders
the statute obnoxious to the commerce clause. Compare
Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S.197, 203.
That the claims against interstate carriers for personal
injuries and for loss and damage of freight are numerous;
that the amounts demanded are large; that in many
cases carriers deem it imperative, or advisable, to leave
the determination of their liability to the courts; that
litigation in States and jurisdictions remote from that in
which the cause of action arose entails absence of employees from their customary occupations; and that this
impairs efficiency in operation, and causes, directly and
indirectly, heavy expense to the carriers; these are matters of common knowledge. Facts, of which we, also, take
judicial notice, indicate that the burden upon interstate

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

carriers imposed specifically by the statute here assailed
is a heavy one; and that the resulting obstruction to commerce must be serious.! During federal control absences
of employees incident to such litigation were found, by
the Director General, to interfere so niuch with the physical operation of the railroads, that he issued General
Order No. 18 (and 18A) which required suit to be brought
in the county or district where the cause of action arose
or where the plaintiff resided at the time it accrued. That
order was held reasonable and valid in Alabama & Vicksburg Ry. Co. v. Journey, 257 U. S. 111. The facts recited
in the order, to justify its issue, are of general application, in time of peace as well as of war.
The fact that the business carried on by a corporation
is entirely interstate in character does not render the corporation immune from the ordinary process of the courts
of a State. International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky,
234 U. S. 579. The requirements of orderly, effective
administration of justice are paramount. In Kane v. New
Jersey, 242 U. S. 160, 167, a statute was sustained which
required non-resident owners of motor vehicles to appoint a state official as agent upon whom process might
be served in suits arising from their use within the State,
because the burden thereby imposed upon interstate
commerce was held to be a reasonable requirement for
the protection of the public. It may be that a statute
like that here assailed would be valid although applied
to suits in which the cause of action arose elsewhere,
if the transaction out of which it arose had been entered
2

A message, dated February 2, 1923, of the Governor of Minnesota

to its Legislature, recites that a recent examination of the calendars
of the district courts in 67 of the 87 counties of the State disclosed
that in those counties there were then pending 1,028 personal injury
cases in which non-resident plaintiffs seek damages aggregating nearly
$26,000,000 from foreign railroad corporations which do not operate
any line within Minnesota.

DAVIS v. FARMERS CO-OPERATIVE CO.
312

317

Opinion of the Court.

upon within the State,8 or if the plaintiff was, when it
arose, a resident of the State.' These questions are not
before us; and we express no opinion upon them. But
orderly, effective administration of justice clearly does
not require that a foreign carrier shall submit to a suit
in a State in which the cause of action did not arise,
in which the transaction giving rise to it was not entered
upon, in which the carrier neither owns nor operates a
railroad, and in which the plaintiff does not reside. The
public and the carriers are alike interested in maintaining adequate, uninterrupted transportation service at
reasonable cost. This common interest is emphasized by
Transportation Act, 1920, which authorizes rate increases
necessary to ensure to carriers efficiently operated a fair
return on property devoted to the public use. See Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; New England Divisions
Case, 261 U. S. 184. Avoidance of waste, in interstate
transportation, as well as maintenance of service, has
become a direct concern of the public. With these ends
the Minnesota statute, as here applied, unduly interferes.
By requiring from interstate carriers general submission
to suit, it unreasonably obstructs, and unduly burdens,
interstate commerce.
The case at bar resembles, in its facts, but is not identical with, Missouri,Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Reynolds,
255 U. S. 565, and St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v.
Alexander, 227 U. S. 218. In the former, the validity of
a similar Massachusetts statute was sustained in a per
'Compare International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S.
579; "Jurisdiction over nonresidents doing business within a State",
by Austin W. Scott, 32 Harv. Law Rev. 871, 887.
'Compare Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239; Chambers v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 142; Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250
U. S. 525, 537; Canadian Northern Ry. Co. v. Eggen, 252 U. S.
553; Kenney v. Supreme Lodge, 252 U. S. 411.

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

curiam opinion. In the latter, jurisdiction was upheld in
the absence of a statute concerning solicitation. But in
both cases the only constitutional objection asserted was
violation of the due process clause. See Reynolds v. Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co., 224 Mass. 379; 228 Mass.
584. Since we hold that the Minnesota statute as construed and applied violates the commerce clause, we have
no occasion to consider whether it also violates the Fourteenth Amendment.'
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
NASHVILLE, CHATTANOOGA & ST. LOUIS RAILWAY ET AL. v. STATE OF TENNESSEE ET AL.
UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION v. STATE OF TENNESSEE ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

Nos. 396 and 429. Argued April 11, 12, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.
1. Section 22 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended, in declaring that nothing in the act shall prevent the carriage of property
free, or at reduced rates, for the United States, state or municipal
governments, does not in effect deny to the Interstate Commerce
Commission power to prohibit such reduced rates when they result
5 Compare Green v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co., 205
U. S. 530; Philadelphia & Reading Ry. Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U. S.
264; Rosenberg Bros. & Co. v. Curtis Brown Co., 260 U. S. 516;
Bank of America v. Whitney Central National Bank, 261 U. S. 171.
Also Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S.
602; PennsylvaniaLumbermen's Mutual Fire Insurance Co. v. Meyer,
197 U. S. 407; Old Wayne Mutual Life Association v. McDonough,
204 U. S. 8; Commercial Mutual Accident Co. v. Davis, 213 U. S.
245; Pennsylvania Fire Insurance Co. v. Gold Issue Mining & Milling Co., 243 U. S. 93.

