SO. UTAH MINES v. BEAVER COUNTY.

325

Syllabus.
SOUTH UTAH MINES & SMELTERS v. BEAVER
COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF UTAH.

No. 321.

Argued March 15, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.

1. In an action at law tried by the District Court without a jury,

the court, after deciding the case upon a general finding, may
make special findings of fact and incorporate them in the record,
if all this is done at the same term. P. 329.
2. Under the Utah Constitution, which contemplates that all property shall be taxed according to its money value, and, as a means
of valuing metaliferous mines, provides that, in addition to an
arbitrary valuation of five dollars per acre, they shall be assessed
at a value based on some multiple or sub-multiple of their net
annual proceeds; and under Utah Laws 1919, c. 114, which adopts
three as the multiple for valuing metaliferous mines, (providing
that all other mines and valuable mineral deposits shall be assessed
at their true value;) and defines net annual proceeds as the net
proceeds realized during the preceding calendar year from the
sale, or conversion into money or its equivalent, of all ores
extracted by the owner, lessee, contractor or other person working
upon or operating the property during or previous to the year for
which the assessment is made, including all dumps and tailings,
after making certain deductions. Held: (a) That tailings, left
as refuse from the concentration of ore derived from a mine long
since worked out, and which were situate on land remote from the
mine and had an ascertained and adjudicated value of their own,
constituted a unit of property entirely apart from the mine.
P. 332.
(b) That an agreement of the owner of the mine and the tailings,
under which a leasing company took possession of and worked the
tailings and paid the owner a per cent. of the net recovery, was a
lease and left the owner subject to taxation on the value of the
tailings during the process of extraction. Id.
(c) But that an attempt to tax the owner, upon the assumption
that the tailings were part of the mine, by assessing the value at
three times the entire proceeds extracted from the tailings by the
lessee, during the tax year, was void. Id.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

3. It is the duty of the Court to construe state statutes, if possible,
so as to remove all doubt of their validity under the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 331.
Reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court, in favor of
the County, in an action brought against it to recover

the amount of a tax paid under protest.
Mr. C. C. Parsons, with whom Mr. Fisher Harris and
Mr. E. 0. Leatherwood were on the briefs, for plaintiff
inerror.
Mr. Harvey H. Cluff, Attorney General of the State of
Utah, and Mr. William A. Hilton, for defendant in error,
submitted. Mr. J. Robert Robinson, Mr. W. Hal Farr
and Mr. Lawrence A. Miner also were on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an action brought by the plaintiff in error
(plaintiff below) against the defendant in error (defendant below) in the Federal District Court for the District
of Utah to recover a tax alleged to have been illegally
imposed by the state taxing authorities and paid under
protest. The plaintiff is a mining corporation organized
and existing under the laws of Maine, and since 1909
has owned mining property in Beaver County, Utah, consisting of mining claims, a concentrating mill, now obsolete and largely dismantled, and other property incident thereto. The property was continuously operated
until August, 1914. The ores were copper-bearing and
upon extraction were transported to the mill and there
crushed and concentrated, the resulting concentrates being shipped and sold to smelters at some distanc6 away.
As a result of the concentrating operations refuse material, still retaining small quantities of copper and other
metals, was deposited near the concentrating mill as

SO. UTAH MINES v. BEAVER COUNTY.
325

327

Opinion of the Court.

tailings. This deposit was begun by plaintiff's predecessor as early as May, 1903, and from then until August,
1914, approximately 900,000 tons of tailings were accumulated upon desert land owned by plaintiff, non-mineral
in character, and located about three miles from its mining claims. At the time of the accumulation of these
tailings there was no known process by which the small
percentage of metals which they contained could be profitably recovered. In August, 1914, plaintiff stopped
work on its mining claims and has never since resumed.
The court below expressly found that at the date last
mentioned all ores which could be profitably mined under processes then or since known had been taken out,
and that plaintiff's mine, excluding the tailings, had
never since been of any value; that plaintiff had never
abandoned its property but had maintained its title and
paid and discharged all taxes assessed against it; and
that, on January 1, 1919, the said tailings deposit was
of the value of $20,000.
In January, 1914, plaintiff made an agreement with
the Utah Leasing-Company for the treatment and reduction of this deposit upon a royalty of ten per cent. The
leasing company took possession of the tailings, constructed reduction works, using in connection therewith
some of the plaintiff's improvements on its mining property, and, as a result of its operations, recovered from
the tailings in the year 1918 the net amount of $120,547,
ten per cent. only of which was paid over to the plaintiff, under the terms of- the agreement. The taxing authorities, claiming to act under the state constitution and
laws, multiplied the amount thus recovered by three and
fixed the value of plaintiff's mining property for the year
1919 for taxing purposes at the multiple thereof, viz.,
$361,641. The defendant thereupon assessed and collected from plaintiff $6,907.34 as a tax against plaintiff's

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

mining property for the year 1919, based upon a valuation computed in the manner just stated.
The Constitution of Utah declares (§ § 2 and '3, Article
XIII) that all property in the State shall be taxed in
proportion to its value, and requires the legislature to
provide a uniform and equal rate of assessment and taxation of all property according to its value in money, and
prescribe such regulations as shall secure a just valuation
for the taxation of all property, so that every person and
corporation shall pay a tax in proportion to such value.
By an amendment to § 4, Article XIII, adopted in 1918,
it is provided that all metaliferous mines or mining
claims, in addition to an arbitrary valuation of $5 per
acre, shall be assessed "at a value based on some multiple or sub-multiple of the net annual proceeds thereof.
All other mines or mining claims and other valuable
mineral deposits, including lands containing coal or hydrocarbons, shall be assessed at their full value."
The legislature, at its session in 1919, enacted a statute
in pursuance of this constitutional provision, providing
that metaliferous mines or mining claims shall be assessed, in addition to the $5 per acre, upon a value to
be determined by taking the multiple of three times the
net annual proceeds thereof. Other mines and valuable
mineral deposits are to be assessed at their full value.
The words "net annual proceeds" are defined to be the
net proceeds realized during the preceding calendar year
from the sale, or conversion into money or its equivalent,
of all ores extracted by the owner, lessee, contractor or
other person working upon or operating the property
during or previous to the year for which the assessment
is made, including all dumps and tailings, after making
certain deductions. Session Laws, 1919, c. 114, § 5864.
Upon the facts stated and under these constitutional
and statutory provisions, the lower court upheld the
validity of the tax.

SO. UTAH MINES v. BEAVER COUNTY.
325

329

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff contended in the court below that the
tailings deposit was neither a mine nor a part of a mine,
but a thing separate and apart from its mining claims,
constituting a "valuable mineral deposit" and taxable
as such upon the value and not a multiple thereof; that
the agreement with the leasing company was a sale of the
deposit, which thereupon ceased to be assessable as its
property, or the basis for assessment of its worked out
and worthless mine; that since 1914 its mining claims,
having become valueless and yielding no net proceeds,
were not taxable; that the tax assessed was therefore in
contravention of § 3, Article XIII, of the Constitution of
Utah, requiring a uniform and equal rate of assessment
of property according to its value in money, so that every
person and corporation should pay a tax in proportion to
such value; and also was in contravention of the clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States in respect of due process and equal protection of the laws. The court below denied these contentions and sustained the tax and the case comes here
for review upon writ of error.
The defendant has submitted a motion to dismiss the
writ of error and of this we first dispose. The ground
of the motion is that the case was tried by the court
without a jury; that no exceptions were taken during the
trial and no request for special findings or a declaration
of law made during the progress of the trial; that the
.court gave its decision and a general finding orally and
directed judgment for the defendant, which was duly
entered; that nearly three months later, on motion of
plaintiff, and against defendant's objection, the court
made and filed special findings of fact. The defendant
challenges the power of the court to make these special
findings and insists that they should be disregarded, in
which event nothing substantial would be left for review.
All of the proceedings, including the special findings,
happened at the same term. The rule is that during the

OCTOBER TERM. 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

term the record is "in the breast of the court" and may
be altered during that time in its discretion as justice
may require. Goddard v. Ordway, 101 U. S. 745, 752;
Ayre8 v. WiswaU, 112 U. S. 187, 190; Doss v. Tyack, 14
How. 297, 312; Barrell v. Tilton, 119 U. S. 637, 643;
Basset v. United States, 9 Wall. 38, 41.
That rule is applicable here and the motion to dismiss
is accordingly denied.
The state constitution plainly contemplates that all
property irrespective of its character, shall be taxed "according to its value in money." The provision with reference to the taxation of metaliferous mines does not
mean to depart from this rule, but recognizes that their
value cannot be determined in the ordinary way, since
the ores which constitute the wealth of such property
are hidden in the earth and, as a general thing, disclosure
of their extent and character must await extraction. The
constitution, therefore, provides, not for disregarding
value in the assessment of taxes upon mines, but for
arriving at it in a special manner-that is, by a measurement proportioned to the net annual proceeds derived
from the property. The value of property bears a relation
to the income which it affords. If it be property whose
production is uniform and of indefinite duration the capitalization of the net income derived from it at the going
rate of interest, in the absence of a more certain method,
will furnish a reasonable measure of the value. The
life of a mine, however, is limited. The extraction of
ores from year to year constitutes a constant drain upon
the capital, which, in course of time, will be exhausted.
It follows that a given multiple of the net annual proceeds which may be a fair measure of value in the early
part of a mine's development, will become excessive as
the stage of exhaustion approaches. The constitutional
provision, therefore, at best, will produce only approximate equality. Undoubtedly in fixing the multiple of

SO. UTAH MINES v. BEAVER COUNTY.
325

331

Opinion of the Court.

the net annual proceeds upon which the value of metaliferous mines is to be calculated a good deal of latitude
must be allowed the legislature and the taxing authorities, but the power is not -unbounded. Without attempting to delimit the boundaries-a matter primarily for the
state courts-it is sufficient for present purposes to say
that in our opinion they have been clearly exceeded in
the instant case. The net proceeds here involved arose
from a lot of refuse material, which, long prior to the
imposition of the tax, had been severed from the mining
claims, removed to a distance, submitted to the process
of reduction and stored upon lands separate and apart
from the claims. Moreover, but one-tenth of the amount
of these net proceeds was realized by the owoer of the
mining claims. To treble the total of these proceeds for
the purpose of basing thereon an altogether .fictitious
value for a mine worked out and worthless years before
the adoption of the statutory provisions supposed to confer the authority to do so, results in such flagrant and
palpable injustice as would cast the most serious doubt
upon the constitutionality of such provisions if thus construed. See Dane v. Jackson, 256 U. S. 589, 598; Henderson Bridge Co. v. Henderson City, 173 U. S. 592,
614-615. These statutory provisions, so far as we are
informed, have not received the consideration of the state
courts, and we will not assume in advance of such consideration, that they will be so construed as to produce
that result. See Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania,
232 U. S. 531, 546; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v.
Cade, 233 U. S. 642, 650. Clearly they are susceptible
of a construction which will preclude their application to
the case now under consideration and, as that construction will resolve all doubt in favor of their constitutionality, it is our duty to adopt it. Plymouth Coal Co. v.
Pennsylvania, supra, p. 546; St. Louis Southwestern Ry.
Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 369; Arkansas Natural
Gas Co. v. Arkansas Railroad Commission, 261 U. S. 379.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

The rule prescribed for the valuation of metaliferous
mines, as we have already indicated, is one of necessity,
and should not be extended to cases clearly not within
the reason of the rule. The tailings, severed and removed
from the mining claims, changed in character, placed' on
other and separate lands and having an ascertained and
adjudicated value of their own, in our opinion, constituted
a unit of property entirely apart from the mine from
which they had been taken. See Forbes v. Gracey, 94
U. S. 762, 765. We think the agreement with the leasing
company was not a sale of these tailings, but that the
ownership, pending the process of reduction, remained in
plaintiff. The plaintiff, therefore, was subject to taxation
upon thei" value, but not as a mine, since that implies
something capable of being mined which this loose and
homogeneous deposit obviously was not.
While the taxing authorities cannot be held to an inflexible rule of equality, even in respect of properties in
the same classification where their nature is such as to
practically preclude the application of such a rule, it does
not follow that all distinctions are to be ignored and indubitably dissimilar and readily distinguishable things
treated as though they were the same. It may well be
that the taxable value of mines differing in extent of
development or in degree of exhaustion and relatively of
different actual values, must, from the practical necessities of the case, be subjected to the same rule of measurement, although it may work inequality to some extent.
But the difference between a mine from which ore is still
being or still may be extracted and net income derived,
and one conceded to be an empty shell, with no present
or prospective value whatsoever, is so obvious that the
imposition of a tax upon the basis of their being, nevertheless, one and the same cannot be sustained with due
regard for either law or logic.
How far the state statute defining the net annual proceeds to be considered in measuring the value of a mine,

RIDDLE v. DYCHE.
325

Syllabus.

properly includes those derived from dumps and tailings
placed and remaining upon the mining claims or connected with a going mine, we do not determine; but we
do hold that the proceeds from the tailings in question,
under the facts here disclosed, are not included within its
terms. The court below should have so construed the
statute and rendered judgment for the plaintiff. See
Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362,
390-391; Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. R. Co.,
244 U. S. 499, 507. This disposition of the case makes
it unnecessary to adjudicate the questions raised under
the Fourteenth Amendment.
The judgment of the District Court is reversed and the
case remanded for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
Reversed.
RIDDLE v. DYCHE, WARDEN OF THE UNITED
STATES
PENITENTIARY
AT
ATLANTA,
GEORGIA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 663.

Argued April 12, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.

1. The objection that a trial and conviction in the District Court
were illegal because the jury was made of but eleven men is one

that should be taken by a writ of error, based on proper exceptions. P. 334.
2. A person tried, convicted and sentenced upon a record showing
that a lawful jury was empaneled, sworn and charged, cannot
collaterally impeach the record by a proceeding in habeas corpus
based on the proposition that there were only eleven jurors.

P. 335. Cf. Ex parte Riddle, 255 U. S. 450.
3. Proceedings of a District Court within its jurisdiction cannot be

impeached and regxamined collaterally by a District Court of
another district. P. 336.
Affirmed.

