OCTOBER TERM, 1922.

58

Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

UNITED STATES TRUST COMPANY OF NEW
OF
ADMINISTRATOR
YORK, ANCILLARY
WESCHE, v. MILLER, AS ALIEN PROPERTY
CUSTODIAN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 292.

Argued April 13, 1923.-Decided April 23, 1923.

Decided upon the authority of Commercial Trust Co. v. Miller, ante,
51.
Affirmed.
APPEAL

from an order of the District Court denying a

petition for leave to intervene in the case above cited.
Mr. Selden Bacon for appellant.
Mr. James A. Fowler,Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case was argued and submitted with No. 575,
Commercial Trust Co. v. Miller, just decided, ante, 51.
It is a petition for leave to intervene in the latter suit
instituted (as we have seen) by Francis P. Garvan, then
Alien Property Custodian, Miller subsequently succeeding him. That suit is here on appeal from the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit,
this suit is here on appeal from the District Court of the
United States for the District of New Jersey, a constitutional question being, it is contended, involved. "The
District Court," the assertion is, "months after peace
had been declared, denied Wesche's petition to intervene,

U. S. TRUST CO. v. MILLER.
58

Opinion of the Court.

and awarded conveyance and delivery of what was admittedly his separate property, to the Custodian."
In support of these contentions and their pertinency
and control, counsel's comment is that the Custodian
made two demands for the property, but "that these demands were both made while the act forbade recourse
by any claimant to any court to review any seizure thereunder by the Custodian, save the United States District
Court for the district in which the claimant resided. The
amendment permitting suit in the Supreme Court for the
District of Columbia was added only by the Act of July
11Th, 1919. And Wesche, a neutral, separate owner of
part of the property, and custodian of it all, resided in
Switzerland, and Ahrenfeldt, an American citizen, separate owner of part of the property, was residing throughout the war in England, France or Switzerland."
And the further argument is that "seizure under such
circumstances was unconstitutional" and that "mere demands" by the Custodian "did not constitute constructive capture, and even constructive capture was not
completed before peace came."
This statement is enough preliminarily to the understanding and appreciation of Wesche's fundamental contentions which are that the conditions of the act were not
complied with before suit and suit, therefore, was not
justified. And the unconstitutionality of the act as applied to his case is also urged, and that the defenses were
available to him in the suit. The court therefore, is the
contention, in denying his petition to intervene, committed error.
The case, it will be observed, is identical in legal aspects
with Commercial Trust Co. v. Miller. Here, as there,.
Wesche's interest is asserted in the property, here by himself, there by the Trust Company. Here, as there, the
conditions of suit were asserted not to have been performed; here, perhaps with more emphasis, as there, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

unconstitutionality of the act is argued; here, as there, it
is urged that these contentions constituted defenses that
could be made in the suit, and that relief was not only
through the "filing of a claim and instituting proceedings as provided by Section 9 of the Trading with the
Enemy Act."
We repeat, therefore, the cases are identical and upon
the authority of that case, the order of the District Court
denying Wesche's petition for intervention is
Affirmed.
AHRENFELDT v. MILLER, AS ALIEN PROPERTY
CUSTODIAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 576. Argued April 13, 1923.--Decided April 23, 1923.
Decided upon the authority of Commercial Trust Co. v. Miller, ante,
51.
282 Fed. 944, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals which affirmed an order of the District Court denying the appellant's petition for leave to intervene in the
case above cited.
Mr. Selden Bacon for appellant.
Mr. James A. Fowler, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Ahrenfeldt, the appellant, filed a petition in the District Court in the case of Garvan v. Commercial Trust
Co., (in this Court, Commercial Trust Co. v. Miller,
No. 575, ante, 51) for leave to intervene, alleging that

