OCTOBER TERM, 1922.

506

Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

if there be such, on the part of either State, the United
States or any private intervener herein, shall be presented

to the Court, or, if it be not in session, filed with the
Clerk, within forty days 'after the report is made. The
cost of executing this order shall be borne and paid as
part of the expenses of the receivership.

SONNEBORN BROTHERS v. CURETON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF TEXAS,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 20. Argued March 24, 1922; restored to docket for reargument
May 29, 1922; reargued October 5, 1922.-Decided June 11,

1923.
1. A state occupation tax, levied on all wholesale dealers in oil and
measured by a per cent. of the gross amount of their respective
sales made within the State, is not invalid, as a burden on interstate commerce, when applied to local sales in the original packages,
of oil previously shipped into the State and stored by the dealer
as part of his stock in trade. P. 508.
2. As regards immunity from state taxation, the distinction between
imports and articles in original packages in interstate commerce, is
that, in the one case, the immunity attaches to the import itself
before sale, while, in the other, it depends on whether the tax
regulates or burdens interstate commerce. P. 509.
Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, followed. Standard Oil Co. v.
Graves, 249 U. S. 389; Askren v. Continental Oil Co., 252 U. S.
444; Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642, and Texas Co.
v. Brown, 258 U. S. 466, qualified.
Affirmed.

a decree of the District Court dismissing, on
final hearing, the appellants' bill, which sought to enjoin
the enforcement of penalties for failure to make reports
of sales of oil and for failure to pay a state tax, in respect
APPEAL from

SONNEBORN BROS. v. CURETON.
506

Opinion of the Court.

of oil sold in the packages in which it had been originally
shipped into the State.
Mr. Joseph Manson McCormick, with whom Mr. Francis Marion Etheridge was on the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. E. F. Smith, with whom Mr. C. M. Cureton, Attorney General of the State of Texas, and Mr. C. W. Taylor
were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of a United States District Court under § 238, Judicial Code, in a case in which
a law of Texas is claimed to be in contravention of the
Constitution of the United States. The law in question
is Art. 7377 of the .Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, approved May 16, 1907, Acts of 1907, p. 479. It provides
that every individual, firm or corporation, foreign or domestic, engaging as a wholesale dealer in coal oil or other
oils refined from petroleum, shall make a quarterly report.
to the State Comptroller, showing the gross amount collected and uncollected from any and all sales made within
the State during the quarter next preceding, and that an
occupation tax shall be paid by such dealer equal to two
per cent. of the gross amount of such sales collected or
uncollected.
From an agreed statement of facts, the following
appears:
Sonneborn Brothers is a firm of non-resident merchants
selling petroleum products, with its principal place of
business in New York City. In January, 1910, it opened
an office in Dallas, Texas, and since that time has maintained it and connecting warerooms and has rented space
in a public warehouse at San Antonio, Texas. From
January, 1910, until April 11, 1919, receipts from its total

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

sales, made through orders received at the Dallas office,
have amounted to $860,801.50. This sum included:
(1) Those from the sale of oil which, when sold, was
not in Texas.
.(2) Those from sales of oil to be delivered from Texas
out of the State.
(3) Those arising from the sale of oil shipped into
Texas and afterwards sold from the storerooms in unbroken original packages.
(4) Those from sales in Texas from broken packages.
The receipts from the first two classes amounted to
$643,622.40 and the state authorities made no effort to
tax them. The receipts from (4) amounted in the period
named to $16,549.84, and appellants do not deny their
liability for the tax thereofi. The sales made under (3)
of unbroken packages, after their arrival in Texas, and
after storage in the warerooms or warehouse of appellants, amounted to $217,179.10, and the tax on this
amounting to $4,674.58 is the subject of the contest here.
The question we have to decide is whether oil transported by appellants from New York or elsewhere outside of Texas to their warerooms or warehouse in Texas,
there held for sales in Texas in original packages of
transportation, and subsequently sold and delivered in
Texas in such original packages, may be made the basis
of an occupation tax upon appellants, when the state
tax applies to all wholesale dealers in oil engaged in
making sales and delivery in Texas.
Our conclusion must depend on the answer to the
question: Is this a regulation of, or a burden upon, interstate commerce? We think it is neither. The oil had
come to a state of rest in the warehouse of the appellants
and had become a part of their stock with which they
proposed to do business as wholesale dealers in the State.
The interstate transportation was at an end, and whether
in the original pAckages or not, a state tax upon the oil

SONNEBORN BROS. v. CURETON.
506

Opinion of the Court.

as property or upon its sale in the State, if the state law
levied the same tax on all oil or all sales of it, without regard to origin, would be neither a regulation nor a burden
of the interstate commerce of which this oil had been
the subject.
This has been established so far as property taxes on
the merchaidise are concerned by a formidable line of
authorities. Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Coe v.
Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Pittsburg & Southern Coal Co. v.
Bates, 156 U. S. 577; Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonagon,
188 U. S. 82; American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192
U. S. 500, 520; General Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211;
Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504.
But the argument is that for articles in original packages, the sale is a final step in the interstate commerce,
and that the owner may not be taxed upon such sale
because this is a direct burden on that step. The reasoning is based on the supposed analogy of the immunity
from state taxation of imports from foreign countries
which lasts until the article imported has been sold, or has
been taken from its original packages of importation and
added to the mass of merchandise of the State. This
immunity of imports was established by this Court in
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 446, 447, and was
declared in obedience to the prohibition of the Constitution contained in § 10, Article I, par. 2, providing that:
"No State shall, without the consent of the Congress,
lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports, except
what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws."
The holding was that the sale was part of the importation. It is the article itself to which the immunity. attaches and whether it is in transit or is at rest, so long as
it is in the form and package in which imported and'in
the custody and ownership of the importer, the State may
not tax it. This immunity has been enforced as against

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

a license or occupation tax on the importer in Brown v.
Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, as against a personal property
tax on a stock of wines of a wine dealer to the extent to
which the stock included imported wines in the original
packages, Low v. Austin, 13 Wall. 29, and as against an
occupation tax on an auctioneer measured by his commissions on the sales of such imports, Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566. When, however, the article imported,
is sold °or is taken from the original packages and exposed
for sale, the immunity is gone. Waring v. The Mayor, 8
Wall. 110; May v. New Orleans, 178 U. S. 496.
Cases subsequent to Brown v. Maryland show that the
analogy between imports and articles in original packages
in interstate commerce in respect of immunity from taxation fails. The distinctiori is that the immunity attaches
to, the import itself before sale, while the immunity in
case of an article because of its relation to interstate commerce depends on the question whether the tax challenged regulates or burdens interstate commerce.
The first of the- cases making this distinction is Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123. In that case, Woodruff, an
auctioneer in Mobile, received, in the course of his general business for himself and as consignee and agent for
others, merchandise from Alabama and from other States
and sold it in unbroken packages. The City of Mobile
under its charter levied a uniform tax on real and personal
property, on sales at auction, on sales of merchandise, and
on capital employed in the business in the city. Woodruff objected to paying any tax on the auction sales of
merchandise from other States in original packages. The
question most considered by the Court was whether merchandise exported from one State to another was an export which a State was forbidden to tax by Article I, § 10,
par. 2, of the Federal Constitution, above quoted. It was
held that it was not, and that the words "imports and
exports" as there used referred to, and included only mer-

SONNEBORN BROS. v. CURETON.
506

Opinion of the Court.

chandise brought in from, or transported to, foreign countries. The Court (p. 140) further held that such a tax
which did not discriminate against the sales of goods from
other States, but was imposed upon sales of all merchandise, whether its origin was in Alabama or in any other
State, was not "an attempt to fetter commerce among
the States."
At the close of the opinion in Brown v. Maryland,
Chief Justice Marshall made the remark "that we suppose the principles laid down in this case apply equally
to importations from a sister State." This was pronounced in Woodruff v. Parham not to be a judicial decision of the question but an obiter dictum.
While the opinion by Mr. Justice Miller in Woodruff v.
Parham is chiefly devoted to showing that exports are
limited to goods sent out of the country, the decision on
the interstate commerce phase of the issue was most fully
considered. The adverse view was pressed with all the
learning and force of argument of John A. Campbell, formerly a Justice of this Court.
Immediately following Woodruff v. Parham is Hinson
v. Lott, 8 Wall. 148, in which was at issue the validity of
a provision of the Alabama law that, before it should be
lawful for a dealer introducing spirituous liquors into the
State to offer the same for sale, he must pay fifty cents a
gallon thereon. The provision was sustained as not being
an attempt to burden interstate commerce, because by
another section of the same law every distiller of the
State was required to pay fifty cents a gallon on all liquor
made by him, and the two sections were complementary
in order "to make the tax equal on all liquors sold in the
State."
Woodruff v. Parhamwas affirmed and applied in Brown
v. Houston, 114 U. S.622, where coal mined in Pennsylvania and sent in barges to New Orleans to be sold after
arrival from those barges, without being landed, to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

vessel bound to a foreign port was held while awaiting
sale to be subject to taxation by the State as property in
Louisiana.
The case of Woodruff v. Parhamhas never been overruled but has often been approved and followed as the
cases above cited show. As an authority it controls the
case before us and shows conclusively that the tax in question is valid.
The distinction between the immunity from state taxation of imports in original packages, and that of articles
coming from interstate commerce in original packages, is
again brought out with emphasis by Mr. Justice White,
afterwards Chief Justice, in American Steel & Wire Co.
v. Speed, 192 U. S. 522. In that case, articles of hardware were shipped by the 'American Steel & Wire Company from their factories in the East to Memphis, Tennessee, and there kept in store in original packages to be
distributed to Arkansas and other States when sold, on
orders to be subsequently secured. Memphis, under a
general law, imposed a merchant's tax on the Wire Company, based on the average capital invested in the business and included this stock of original packages in the
average. The Court conceded that if these goods were
"imports," they could not be taxed under Brown v.
Maryland, but said (p. 519):
"But the goods not having been brought from abroad,
they were not imported in the legal sense and were subject
to state taxation after they had reached their destination
and whilst held in the State for sale," and cited the cases
of Woodruff v. Parham,and Brown v. Houston. Speaking of these cases, the Justice said:
"Those two cases, decided, the one more than thirtyfive and the other more than eighteen years ago, are decisive of every contention urged on this record depending
on the import and the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States. The doctrine which the two

SONNEBORN BROS. v. CURETON.
506

Opinion of the Court.

cases announced has never since been questioned. It has
become the basis of taxing power exerted for years, by all
the States of the Union."
Support for the contention that a state tax on sales of
merchandise in original packages brought in from another
State is to be distinguished from ad valorem taxes on the
merchandise itself is supposed to be found in the cases of
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, and Lyng v. Michigan,
135 U. S.161. In those cases it was held that a law of a
State which forbade sales of merchandise brought into
the State from another State and subjected it to forfeiture,
was invalid because freedom to sell was part of interstate
commerce and interference with such freedom was an
obstruction and would be so regarded as long as the merchandise was unsold and in an original package. The
reasoning in Brown v. Maryland as to the necessity of
sale to complete importation was resorted to by the Court
in Leisy v. Hardin to sustain the view that a sale was a
part of interstate commerce and any state action which
intercepted the merchandise brought in before sale in the
original package was void. In drawing the proper line
between the valid operation of state prohibition laws and
lawful interstate commerce, Chief Justice Marshall's conception of that to be drawn between importation from
abroad under the Constitution and state taxation was
adopted. Without questioning the reasoning used to
reach the conclusion in Leisy v. Hardin, it is enough to
point out the radical difference between state legislation
preventing any sale at all accompanied by forfeiture of
the merchandise, and a provision for an occupation tax
applicable to all sales of such merchandise whether domestic or brought from another State. The one plainly
interferes with or destroys the commerce, the other
merely puts the merchandise on an equality with all other
merchandise in the State and constitutes no real hindrance
to introducing the merchandise into the State for sale
51826-23-33

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

upon the basis of equal competition. Mr. Justice White
in his opinion in American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed,
thus distinguished Leisy v. Hardin from the case then

before the Court.

The obstruction to interstate com-

merce in Leisy v. Hardin was like that in Schollenberger
v. Pennsylvania,171 U. S. 1, 12, in RailroadCo. v. Husen,
95 U. S. 465, 469, in Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313,
in Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78, in Scott v. Donald,
165 U. S. 58, 97, in Vance v. Vandercook Co., No. 1, 170
U. S. 438, and in American Express Co. v. Iowa, 196
U. S. 133.
Counsel for the appellants cite the case of DahikeWalker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, 290, as
aiding their argument that a tax -on a sale of merchandise
in an original package brdught from another State is a
tax on interstate commerce and is different from an ad
valorem property tax on the merchandise. But that case
was not concerned with the power to tax, but rather with
the power of a State to prevent an engagement in interstate commerce within her limits, except by her leave.
The holding there was that a contract for the purchase of
a crop of grain in Kentucky to be delivered at a railway.
station in Kentucky for shipment to Tennessee, conformably to a settled course of business, was an interstate contract which a corporation not authorized by Kentucky to
do business in that State might nevertheless make and
enforce without incurring the penalty of the state law.
It was said in that case (p. 290) that,
"Where goods in one State are transported into another
for purposes of sale, the commerce does not end with the
transportation, but embraces as well the sale of goods
after they reach their destination and while they are in
the original packages. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat.
419, 446-447; American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192
IT. S. 500, 519. On the same principle, where goods are
purchased in one State for transportation to another, the

SONNEBORN BROS. v. CURETON.
506

Opinion of the Court.

commerce includes the purchase quite as much as it does
the transportation. American Express Co. v. Iowa, 196
U. S. 133, 143."
But this language has no relevancy to show that a tax
without discrimination on goods after the transportation
ceases, is a burden on interstate commerce, a proposition
negatived in the American Steel & Wire Co. Case it cites,
or that a different rule should apply to an ad valorem
property tax from that in case of a tax on sales.
Many of the sales by the appellants were made by them
before the oil to fulfill the sales was sent to Texas. These
were properly treated by the state authorities as exempt
from state taxation. They were in effect contracts for
the sale and delivery of the oil across state lines. The
soliciting of orders for such sales is equally exempt. Such
transactions are interstate commerce in its essence and
any state tax upon it is a regulation of it and a burden
upon it. Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120
U. S. 489; Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S.129; Stoutenburgh V.
Hennick, 129 U. S. 141, 147; Caldwell v. North Carolina,
187 U. S. 622; Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507;
Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S.289; Dozier v. Alabama,
218 U. S. 124; Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389; Stewart v. Michigan, 232 U. S.665; Western Oil Refining Co.
v. Lipscomb, 244 U. S.346.
So too a tax upon the gross receipts from interstate
transportation or transmission, whether receipts from intrastate transportation or transmission are equally taxed
or not, is an unlawful tax because a direct burden upon
interstate commerce. State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232,
276, 277; Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230, 244; Philadelphia & Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S.326,
336; Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640, 648; McCall
v. California,136 U. S.104, 109; Galveston, Harrisburg&
San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S.217, 227; Crew
Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania,245 U. S.292.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

A state tax upon merchandise brought in from another
State or upon its sales, whether in original packages or
not, after it has reached its destination and is in a state
of rest, is lawful only when the tax is not discriminating in
its incidence against the merchandise because of its origin
in another State. This distinction is illustrated in the
difference between those cases which uphold the validity
of a tax upon peddlers engaged in selling merchandise
from out of the State which they carry with them, like
those of Machine Co. v. Gage, 100 U. S. 676, Emert v.
Missouri, 156 U. S. 296, Baccus v. Louisiana,232 U. S. 334,
and Wagner v. Covington, 251 U. S. 95, on the one hand,
and that of Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, in which a
peddler's tax was held bad because it was levied only on
goods from other States, on the other. Ward v. Maryland,
12 Wall. 418, 429, Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434, 442443, Tiernan v. Rinker, 102 U. S. 123, Webber v. Virginia,
103 U. S. 344, 350, and Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S.
446, are other instances showing the invalidity of state
tax laws discriminating against merchandise brought in
from other States.
Appellants' chief argument to sustain their contention
that a sale of merchandise in the original package made
after it is brought into the State from another State is
exempt from state taxation is based upon the language of
the opinions in certain recent cases in this Court. They
are Standard Oil Co. v. Graves, 249 U.-S. 389; Askren v.
Continental Oil Co., 252 U. S. 444; Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642, and Texas Co. v. Brown, 258
U. S. 466.
Standard Oil Co. v. Graves was a case of excessive inspection fees. The law of Washington in that case required inspection and labelling before sale, and punished
sales without them. The Supreme Court of the State
said the law could be sustained as an excise law on selling
oil in the State. The opinion contains this passage:

SONNEBORN BROS. v. CURETON.
506

Opinion of the Court.

"In this case the amended complaint alleges that the
oils were shipped into Washington from California. They
are brought there for sale. This right of sale as to such
importations is protected to the importer by the Federal
Constitution, certainly while the same are in the original
receptacles or containers in which they are brought into
the State."
The Court said finally:
"We reach the conclusion that the statute imposing
these excessive inspection fees, in the manner stated, upon
all sales of oils brought into the State in interstate commerce necessarily imposes a direct burden upon such commerce, and is, therefore, violative of the commerce clause
of the Federal Constitution."
There is nothing in the statement of the case to show
the details of the importations of oil, and nothing to indicate how much, if any, of the oil imported had been
ordered before shipment into the State or how much sold
after importation. The remark of the Court as to original
receptacles or containers, therefore, is not shown to have
been necessary to the conclusion.
The case of Askren v. Continental Oil Co. involved the
validity of a law called an inspection law, imposing a
license tax upon those selling gasoline in the State, and
an excise tax of 2 cents a gallon on the sale or use of it.
The inspectors' duties were to see to the execution of the
act and the excess of receipts after payment of their salaries and expenses went into the road fund of the State.
The case was decided on the averments of the bill which
described complainant's business of two kinds, first, that
of selling oil to customers in tanks, and also in barrels and
packages containing not less than two 5-gallon cans, without breaking them, and, second, of selling gasoline from
such tanks and cans in quantities desired by the purchaser.
There was nothing to show whether the first kind of business was done on orders lodged before importation or
after.

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

The Court, however, said:
"As to the gasoline brought. into the State in the tank
cars, or in the original packages, and so sold, we are unable to discover any difference in plan of importation and
sale between the instant case and that before us in Standard Oil Co. v. Grave8, 249 U. S. 389, in which we held that
a tax, which was in effect a privilege tax, as is the one
under consideration, providing for a levy of fees in excess
of the cost of inspection, amounted to a direct burden on
interstate commerce. In that case we reaffirmed, what
had often been adjudicated heretofore in this court, that
the direct and necessary effect of such legislation was to
impose a burden upon interstate commerce; that under
the Federal Constitution the importer of such products
from another State into his'own State for sale in the original packages, had a right to sell the same in such packages without being taxed for the privilege by taxation of
the sort here involved."
If the orders for such sales in original packages were
given before importation, the conclusion reached by the
Court that they were protected against an excise or license
tax is in accord with all of the cases already cited, though
the fact that they were delivered in the original packages
would not give'them any additional immunity. It should
be noted that in this opinion, the case of Wagner v. Covington, 251 U. S. 95, is quoted approvingly and followed
although in that case a tax was upheld on merchandise
brought in from Ohio by the seller and sold there in the
original packages. In the absence of specification as to
when ordered, we can not be sure that the case was
wrongly decided, but only that the language used contained implications which can not be sustained.
The case of Bowman v. Continental Oil Co. was the
same case as the Askren Case, the representatives of the
State having changed. The Askren Case had come here
on an appeal from an interlocutory injunction and was

SONNEBORN BROS. v. CURETON.
506

Opinion of the Court.

decided on the averments of the bill. When the case
went back, an answer was filed and the case was heard
and it turned out that only five per cent. of the businiess was in tank cars and unbroken packages sold,
and that 95 per cent. was in sales of gasoline in quantities desired. The main point decided in the Bowman Case was that a license tax law which imposed a
lump tax as a condition of doing business, part of which
it was unlawful under the Federal Constitution to tax,
must be declared void, though the other part of the business might have been properly the subject of such a tax.
As to the excise tax, the Court directed the injunction to
issue with respect to the imposition upon "sales of gasoline brought from without the State into the State of
New Mexico, and there sold and delivered to customers
in the original packages, whether tank cars, barrels, or
other packages, and in the same form and condition as
when received by plaintiff in that State." If this covered gasoline that was ordered by the purchaser before
importation, it was right. If it covered gasoline, whether
in original packages or not, which was sold after it reached
its destination, then it is not in accord with the law as
we understand it to be under the authorities we have
cited. There is nothing in the case as disclosed in the
statements of facts either in the Askren or the Bowman
Case to show what the fact was in this regard.
It is hardly to be supposed that the Court intended in
these cases to overrule or narrowly to distinguish the
cases of Woodruff v. Parham, Hinson v. Lott, Brown v.
Houston, Pittsburg& Southern Coal Co. v. Bates, American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, and Wagner v. Covington,
without mentioning them, especially when we find that
in Texas Co. v. Brown, 258 U. S. 466, 476, they are quoted
approvingly and followed. That case involved the question whether an inspection law resulting in receipts
greatly in excess of the cost of inspection, and construed

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

by the Georgia Supreme Court to be an excise tax, was
valid in its application to oil shipped into Georgia from
Texas and stored in Georgia for distribution and sale. It
was held to be a valid tax. The case was rightly decided; and for the right reason; but in seeking to distinguish the previous cases, the opinion uses this language:
"Appellant insists that Standard Oil Co. v. Graves, 249
U. S.389, is inconsistent with the imposition of inspection fees on a revenue basis upon goods brought from
another State, however held or disposed of in Georgia.
That decision, however,- extended the exemption from
such fees of goods brought from State to State, no further than 'while the same are in the original receptacles
or containers in which they are brought into the State'
(pp. 394-395); and so it was interpreted in Askren v.
Continental Oil Co., 252 U. S.444, 449."
Upon full consideration and after a reargument, we can
not think this extension of the exemption 'referred to, if
intended to apply to oil sold after arrival in the State, to
be justified either in reason or in previous authority, and
to this extent the opinions in the cases cited are qualified.
The cases all involved the validity of statutes providing
for excessive inspection fees and the question of saving
the statute as an excise law applicable to part of the sales
of the oil was an incidental one. The facts upon which
the line between taxable and non-taxable sales could be
correctly drawn do not appear fully in any of the cases,
or to have been discussed by counsel. This is what has
led to a confusion as to the real distinctions and to observations in the opinions which unless much restricted
in their application constitute a departure from theretofore established principles.
In Woodruff v. Parham (p. 137), Mr. Justice Miller
gives an illustration of the injustice which would arise if
the constitutional immunity from state taxation as to

SONNEBORN BROS. v. CURETON.
506

MCREYNOLDS, J., concurring.

imports from abroad were to be held to apply to imports
from one State to another. It correctly describes the result if the interstate commerce clause were to afford the
same immunity:
"The merchant at Chicago who buys his goods in New
York and sells at wholesale in the original packages, may
have his millions employed in trade for *half a lifetime
and escape all state, county, and city taxes; for all that he
is worth is invested in goods which he claims to be protected as imports from New York. Neither the State nor
the city which protects his life and property can make
him contribute a dollar to support its government, improve its thoroughfares or educate its children. The
merchant in a town in Massachusetts, who deals only in
wholesale, if he purchase his goods in New York, is exempt from taxation. If his neighbor purchase in Boston,
he must pay all the taxes which Massachusetts levies with
equal justice on the property of all its citizens."
This argument is as strong today as when it was written
and it would be a source of confusion and injustice if
through too broad expressions in a few opinions, a different conclusion from that to which it should carry us, were
to obtain.
The decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS,

concurring.

I am unable to concur in all said to support the conclusion adopted by the Court. To me the result seems
out of harmony with the theory upon which recent opinions proceed. There is unfortunate confusion concerning
the general subject and certainly some pronouncement
that can abide is desirable.
Apparently no great harm, and possibly some good, will
follow a flat declaration that irrespective of analogies and

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

for purposes of taxation we will hold interstate commerce
ends when an original package reaches the consignee and

comes to rest within a State, although intended for sale
there in unbroken form. It may be said that the effect
on interstate commerce is not substantial and too remote,
notwithstanding the rather clear logic of Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, to the contrary and the much discussed theory respecting freedom of interstate commerce
from interference by the States, announced and developed long after Woodruff v. Parham (1868), 8 Wall. 123.
Logic and taxation are not always the best of friends.
CHAS. WOLFF PACKING COMPANY v. COURT OF
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS OF THE STATE OF
KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 739. Argued April 27, 1923.-Decided June 11, 1923.
1. Legislative authority to abridge freedom of contract can be justified only by exceptional circumstances, and the restraint must not
be arbitrary or unreasonable. P. 533.
2. Businesses said to be clothed with a public interest justifying some
public regulation, may be divided into three classes:
(a) Those which are carried on under authority of a public grant of
privileges expressly or impliedly imposing the affirmative duty of
rendering public seryice demanded by any member of the public,e. g., the business of a common carrier, or a public utility.
(b) Certain occupations, regarded as exceptional, the public interest
attaching. to which, recognized from earliest times, has survived
the period of arbitrary regulation of all trades and callings by Parliament or Colonial legislatures,-e. g., inns, cabs, and grist mills.
(c) Other businesses which have come to have such a peculiar relation to the public that government regulation has been superim-.
posed 'upon them,--where the owner, by devoting his business to
the public use, in effect grants the public an interest in that use,
and subjects himself to regulation to the extent of such interest.
P. 535.

