OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

be heard to question the validity of a statute only when
and in so far as it is applied to his disadvantage. DahnkeWalker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, 289.
We therefore conclude that the property of the ranch
owners has been taken for highways constituting a public
use authorized by law, and upon a public necessity for the
taking duly established, and that they have not been
deprived of their property in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The judgments of the District Court of
Appeal are accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

MILHEIM ET AL. v. MOFFAT TUNNEL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.

No. 791.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted February 20, 1923.Decided June 11, 1923.

1. A federal question which requires analysis and exposition for its
decision is not frivolous and withstands a motion to dismiss the
writ of error. P. 716.
2. But a motion to affirm should be granted if the questions on which
decision depends are so wanting in substance as not to need further argument. Rule 6, § 5. P. 717.
3. Determination of the judicial question whether a use is public or
private is influenced by local conditions; and this Court, while
enforcing the Fourteenth Amendment, should keep in view the
diversity of such conditions and regard with great respect the
judgments of the courts and the declaration of the legislature of a
State as to what should be deemed a public use in the State.
P. 717.
4. The construction and maintenance of a tunnel for railroad, telegraph and telephone lines, for the transmission of electric power,
and the transportation of water and automobiles and other vehicles

MILHEIM v.MOFFAT TUNNEL DIRT.
710

711

Counsel for Parties.

(Colo. Laws, Ex. Sess., 1922, c. 2, p. 88), held a public use warranting the exercise of the state power of taxation: through assessments
levied on the private lands benefited by the improvement, to aid
in defraying its cost.

Pp. 717, 720.

5. A tunnel constructed and maintained by a State with the design
of leasing it, at a just rental based on the cost, to a railroad corporation, for operation in the service of the public as part of its
line, and of thus promoting the efficiency 'of the railroad as an important common carrier and of preventing its abandonment, is a
public improvement for public purposes. P. 718.
6. If a proposed improvement is one which a State has authority
to make and pay for by assessments on property benefited, the
legislature may determine by the statute imposing the tax what
lands may be, and are in fact, benefited; and its determination is
conclusive and cannot be assailed under the Fourteenth Amendment unless it is a flagrant abuse and so arbitrary as to amount to
a mere confiscation of particular property. P. 721.
7. Where a Commission, authorized to appraise the benefits to be
assessed on lands to meet the cost of a public tunnel improvement,
adopted a tentative ad valorem basis, subject to modification and
correction before confirmation, held, that landowners who did not
see fit to avail themselves of their opportunity to object and be
heard, could not attack the appraisals as arbitrary in a suit for
an injunction. P. 722.
72 Colo. 268, affirmed.

ERROR to a decree of the Supreme Court of Colorado,

affirming a decree of the State District Court, which dismissed the complaint, after full hearing, in a suit brought
by landowners to enjoin proceedings taken for the assessment of their property to defray costs of a public tunnel

improvement.
Mr. Edwin H. Park for Milheim et al., plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Barnwell S. Stuart for White et al., plaintiffs in
error.
Mr. Norton Montgomery for defendants in error. Mr.
Erskine Myer and Mr. David P. Howard were also on the
briefs.

712

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

MB. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The defendants in error move to dismiss the writ of
error or affirm the judgment.
This is a suit challenging the constitutionality of an act
of the State of Colorado creating a tunnel improvement
district (Sess. Laws, Ex. Sess., 1922, c. 2, p. 88), and the
proceedings thereunder.
This act, which is known as the Moffat Tunnel Act,
declares that to provide an avenue of communication by a
transportation tunnel through the Continental Divide at
or near James Peak will reduce the barrier to commercial
intercourse between the eastern and western portions of
the State, facilitate communication in all seasons, and promote the health, comfort, safety, convenience and welfare
of the people of the State, and will be of especial benefit
to the property in certain designated boundaries within
which such tunnel is to be located. To that end it creates
"The Moffat Tunnel Improvement District," a body corporate, comprising all of the territory thus designated, and
being all or portions of nine counties east and west of the
Divide, extending between and including the City and
County of Denver on the east and Routt County in the
northwestern corner of the State, a total distance of about
two hundred and fifty miles. The District is to be managed by a Board, called the "Moffat Tunnel Commission," which is required to construct such a tunnel through
the Divide, with its equipment and approaches, at about
9200 feet above sea level, in such manner that it may be
used for standard gauge railroads, telegraph and telephone
lines, the transmission of power, and the transportation
of water, automobiles and other vehicles.
The Commission is authorized to issue District bonds
to the amount of $6,720,000 to pay for the cost of the
tunnel, expenses, and interest on the bonds during its
construction; to maintain the tunnel; and to contract

MILHEIM v. MOFFAT TUNNEL DIST.
710

713

Opinion of the Court.

with persons and corporations for its use for the specified
purposes, without monopoly by any use, person or corporation, until its capacity has been reached, at annual
rentals apportioned to the respective values of the separate uses, and constituting a fair and just proportion of
the total amount required to pay interest on the bonds,
provide for their retirement and maintain the tunnel;
prior users to be reimbursed by subsequent users in an
equitable proportion of the amount previously paid for
retirement of the bonds and interest.
The Commission is authorized to levy special assessments upon all real estate within the District-except
governmental property which is exempted-for the purpose provided in the act, such special assessments to be
made in proportion to the benefits to each piece of real
estate accruing by reason of the improvements and in
accordance with the rules of apportionment adopted by
the Commission. It may at any time appraise the benefits which will result to such several parcels of real estate
from the organization of the District and the construction
of the tunnel, and, after such appraisal of benefits, levy
special assessments, to the extent of such benefits upon all
such real estate; and may for such purposes adopt rules
providing, inter alia, for notice and hearing to all owners
affected thereby. And if the revenues from the tunnel
are not sufficient to pay interest due on the bonds in any
year, provide for their retirement, pay expenses and maintain the tunnel, in order to prevent the occurrence of a
deficit, the Commission is required to levy special assessments sufficient in amount, annually if necessary, upon
all such real estate, in the manner provided.
It is expressly declared that the special benefits accruing to the assessable real estate within the District are in
excess of the cost of the improvements and of the assessments provided for against such real estate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

In each year in which an assessment is made the Commission is required to appoint a time and place at which
it will hear objections to the assessments, giving prior
notice thereof by publication in two issues a week apart
in a newspaper of general circulation published in each
county. Any real estate owner claiming that his property
has been assessed too highly, erroneously or illegally, may
before such hearing file written objections to such assessment. At the hearing the Commission shall hear such
evidence as may be offered concerning the correctness or
legality of such assessments, and may modify or amend
the same. Any property owner may appeal from the
finding of the Commission as to such assessments to the
district court of the county; but the court shall not disturb the findings of the Commission unless manifestly disproportionate to the assessments imposed upon other
property in the District. The findings of the Commission
if not appealed from, or the findings of the district court
in case of an appeal, shall be final and conclusive evidence
that such assessments have been made in proportion to
the benefits conferred upon each tract of real estate by
reason of the improvements, and constitute a lien thereon
until paid.
The Commission, having been duly organized under the
act, fixed the definite location of the tunnel, adopted preliminary plans for its construction in such manner as to
provide for the various specified uses, estimated its cost,
and resolved to issue District bonds in the authorized
amount to pay for its construction. After making an
investigation and examination of the real estate in the
District, and taking the testimony of a great many witnesses from all parts of the District, engaged in various
kinds of business, it determined the aggregate value of
the real estate within the District subject to assessment
to be $298,544,996-mainly in accordance with the assessed valuations for taxes-and further determined,
sub-

MILHEIM v. MOFFAT TUNNEL DIST.
710

715

Opinion of the Court.

ject to correction and confirmation after hearing the property owners affected, that the value of each parcel of such
real estate would by reason of the organization of the
District and the construction of the tunnel be increased
at least to the extent of fifteen per cent. And it thereupon appraised the benefits to the several parcels of such
real estate at such percentage of their value, as the basis
of special assessments to be thereafter made under the
provisions of the ac. It also fixed a time and place at
which it would hear objections filed by any property
owner to the appraisal of benefits thus made, upon evidence and argument, before confirmation thereof, and
gave public notice of such hearing by publication in the
manner specified in the act. This notice recited the proceedings which the Commission had taken, including the
appraisal of benefits which it had made as the basis for
special assessments, and stated that any appraisal of
benefits found upon such hearing to be incorrect or inequitable, would be modified or amended, and that, after
making all proper corrections, the appraisals would be
confirmed.
Thereupon, before the date set for such hearing, two of
the plaintiffs in error, owning lands within the District,
without filing with the Commission any objections to the
appraisal of benefits, filed their complaint in a District
Court of the State, in behalf of themselves and all similar
landowners, against the Improvement District and the
Tunnel Commission; alleging, inter alia, that the tunnel
was not intended as a public highway for the use of the
general public, but for the benefit of the Denver & Salt
Lake Railroad, commonly known as the Moffat Road;
that the benefits to their real estate and the other real
estate in the District had been arbitrarily appraised and
that no special benefits would accrue to their property or
other property similarly situated; that the act and the
proceedings taken and threatened by the Commission

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

thereunder violated various provisions of the state constitution and would deprive them of their property without due process in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment; and praying that the defendants be enjoined from
proceeding with the enforcement of the act and that all
the proceedings of the Commission be declared null and
void. The defendants in their answers denied these allegations. The other plaintiffs in error, also owning lands
within the District, who likewise had filed no objections
with the Commission, subsequently intervened as plaintiffs in the action.
The case was heard by the District Court upon the
pleadings and proof. The issues, both of fact and law,
including those relating to the appraisal of benefits, were
found for the defendants; and the complaint was accordingly dismissed.
Upon writ of error taken, the Supreme Court of Colorado sustained the District Court in all respects and
affirmed its judgment. 72 Colo. 268.
The landowners urge here, as grounds of error, in substance, that the act and the proceedings taken and permitted thereunder violate the Fourteenth Amendment in
that: (a) the purpose of the act is not public in the
sense warranting the exercise of the power of taxation,
but is essentially private; (b) the act authorizes the imposition of the entire taxes upon the lands within the
District, without regard to their relation to the tunnel or
the benefit to be derived from it, and, there being no
special benefits to such lands justifying such taxation,
such classification is entirely arbitrary; and (c) the Commission has arbitrarily and unreasonably adopted an ad
valorem basis for the appraisal and apportionment of
benefits to the several parcels of land within the District, without reference to the actual benefits to each.
The federal question presented, being one which requires analysis and exposition for its decision, is not friv-

MILHEIM v. MOFFAT TUNNEL DIST.
710

717

Opinion of the Court.

olous; and the motion to dismiss the writ of error is
accordingly denied. Louisville Railroad v. Melton, 218
U. S. 36, 39.
The motion to affirm the judgment should, however,
be granted if the questions on which the decision depends
are found to be so wanting in substance as not to need
further argument. Rule 6, § 5; Hodges v. Snyder, 261
U. S. 600, and cases therein cited.
1. Public Purpose. The nature of a use, whether public or private, is ultimately a judicial question. However, the determination of this question is influenced by
local conditions; and this Court, while enforcing the Fourteenth Amendment, should keep in view the diversity
of such conditions and regard with great respect the judgments of state courts upon what should be deemed public
uses in any State. Rindge Co. v. Los Angeles, ante, 700,
and cases therein cited. And like respect should be accorded to the declarations of the legislative body of the
State. Fallbrook IrrigationDistrict v. Bradley, 164 U. S.
112, 160. Here the legislature, familiar with the local
conditions, has declared that the construction of the tunnel will benefit the people of the State; and both the
local court of the State and its Supreme Court have held
its construction to be for a public purpose.
It is urged by the landowners that the tunnel, considered as an isolated transportation unit, will serve no
useful public purpose. This is obvious, but not to the
point. It is intended to furnish an avenue or highway
which shall be leased to public transportation agencies.
A structure intended for such use is unquestionably a
public improvement for a public use. Thus subway
tunnels constructed by municipalities for lease to street
railway and rapid transit lines for use as common carriers
are public improvements for public purposes, for which
the power of taxation may be exercised. Sun Printing
Co. v. City of New York, 152 N. Y. 257, 265; Prince v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

Crocker, 166 Mass. 347, 361; Browne v. Turner, 176
Mass. 9, 12; Larsen v. San Francisco, 182 Cal. 1, 9. And
see, by analogy, as to ship canals, Cook v. Port of Portland, 20 Oreg. 580.
They, however, contend that the tunnel must be
deemed for a private, rather than for a public purpose,
because it is located so as to be practically a part of the
line of the Moffat Road, and is intended for its use, the
real object of the act being, as expressed by the Governor, to save this railroad to the people of the State.'
There is virtually no denial of this; and evidently this
was the motive which led to the passage of the act and is
the primary purpose for which the tunnel is to be constructed. This, however, is not a private purpose. The
use of the tunnel by the Moffat Road will be for a beneficial public purpose. This railroad runs from Denver,
on the east of the Continental Divide, to Routt County
in the northwestern corner of the State, a distance of 255
miles. It crosses the Divide by a circuitous route above
this tunnel, with steep grades and heavy curves. In the
winter seasons this portion of its line is almost impassable. Its operations result in heavy losses, and it is now
in an embarrassed financial condition and unable to build
the tunnel. Without the use of the tunnel, the railroad
must, it seems, be abandoned; and this avenue of communication between different portions of the State will be
lost. The use of the tunnel will reduce the elevation,
grades and curvature of the railroad, shorten its line about
'The Governor, in his message to the special session of the legislature which passed this act, in stating the two matters for which he
had called the session, said: "Conditions have arisen which threaten
the complete abandonment of a transportation line upon which several counties of the State depend, and your immediate action authorizing the issuance of bonds for the construction of a tunnel through
the mountain range is necessary if the Moffat railroad is to be saved
to the people of this State."

MILHEIM v. MOFFAT TUNNEL DIST.
710

719

Opinion of the Court.

23 miles, and save it large amounts annually. Evidently
the preservation of this railroad, a common carrier of
persons and property, as a means of communication between the eastern and northwestern portions of the State,
is a matter of great public importance; and a tunnel enabling it to provide quicker and cheaper transportation
during all seasons of the year will greatly promote the
public welfare.
Even if this act specifically directed that the tunnel
be leased to the Moffat Road for railroad purposes (a
just rental based on the cost of constructing and maintaining the tunnel being provided), as the tunnel would
be operated by the railroad as a public highway for the
carriage of passengers and freight, it would be a public
improvement for a public use. The test of the public
character of an improvement is the use to which it is to
be put, not the person by whom it is to be operated. See
Mt. Vernon-Woodberry Cotton Duck Co. v. Alabama
Interstate Power Co., 240 U. S. 30, 32. A subway tunnel constructed by a city under an act authorizing its
construction for the specific purpose of being leased to
a designated rapid transit company, is a lawful public
improvement for a public use. Browne v. Turner, supra,
pp. 12, 13. As a railroad is a highway for public use,
although owned by a private corporation, a State may impose or authorize a tax in aid of its construction and in
furtherance of such public use. Olcott v. Supervisors, 16
Wall. 678, 695-696; Pine Grove v. Talcott, 19 Wall. 666,
676, 678; Wisconsin Railroad v. Jacobson, 179 U. S.287,
297; Donovan v. Pennsylvania Co., 199 U. S. 279, 292,
293. "Whether the use of a railroad is a public or a
private one depends in no measure upon the question
who constructed it or who owns it. . . . No matter
who is the agent, the function performed is that of the
State. Though the ownership is private the use is public.
If there be any purpose for which taxation would

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

seem to be legitimate it is the making and maintenance
of highways. They have always been governmental
affairs, and it has ever been recognized as one of the most
important duties of the State to provide and care for
them. .
. When, therefore, it is settled that a railroad is a highway for public uses, there can be no substantial reason why the power of the State to tax may not
be exerted in its behalf." Olcott v. Supervisors,supra,pp.
695, 696. "Though the corporation was private, its work
was public, as much so as if it were to be constructed by
the State." Pine Grove v. Talcott, supra,p. 676. The use
of a spur track is none the less public because it is located
to reach a private industry whose proprietors contribute
to the cost. Hairstonv. Danville Railway, 208 U. S. 598,
608. So here, although this tunnel be designed for lease
to the Moffat Road, it will be a highway for public uses,
as much so as if it were operated by the State, and a
public improvement for public purposes.
Furthermore, while the saving of the Moffat Road to
the people of the State seems to have been the prime
motive which induced the passage of the act, it specifically
provides for the use of the tunnel by any and all railroads
and other public utilities, to the extent of its capacity,
each paying an annual rental apportioned to the respecfive values of the separate uses, and constituting a fair
and just proportion of the total amount required to pay
interest on the bonds, provide for their retirement and
maintain the tunnel. And the evidence strongly indicates that the tunnel may and will be used, to like advantage, by the Denver & Rio Grande Railroad, extending from Denver to Salt Lake City, with a great shortening and improvement of its line. It will also serve as a
means of transporting water from the Fraser River on
the west of the Divide to the City of Denver, for telegraph and telephone lines and the transmission of power;
and for the transportation of automobiles and vehiclesi

MILHEIM v. MOFFAT TUNNEL DIST.
710

Opinion of the Court.

which are now unable to cross the Divide during several
months of the year. These are all public purposes of
much importance.
We conclude that the purpose for which the tunnel is
to be constructed is not private, but public, and such as
warrants the exercise by the State of the power of
taxation.
2. Classification as to special benefits. It is contended
that no special benefits of a direct and immediate character will accrue from the tunnel to the lands lying within
the District, as distinguished from the other lands in the
State, and that hence the classification made by the act
in providing for the assessments solely upon the lands
within the District, is entirely unreasonable and arbitrary.
It is well settled, however, that if a proposed improvement
is one which the State has authority to make and pay
for by assessments on property benefited, the legislature
in the exercise of the taxing power has authority to determine by the statute imposing the tax, what lands may
be and are in fact benefited by the improvement; and
if it does so, its determination is conclusive upon the
owners and the courts and cannot be assailed under the
Fourteenth Amendment unless it is wholly unwarranted
and a flagrant abuse, and by reason of its arbitrary character is mere confiscation of the particular property.
Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S. 345, 356; Fallbrook Irrigation District v. Bradley, supra,p. 174; Wagner v. Baltimore, 239 U. S. 207, 218, 220; Houck v. Little River
Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254, 262, 265; Branson v.
Bush, 251 U. S. 182, 190.
The legislature not only provided for the assessment of
the lands within the District, but specifically declared
that the tunnel would be of especial benefit to such lands
and that the special benefits accruing to them are in
excess of the cost of the tunnel and of the assessments
provided for against them.
51826°-23-46

722

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

The District consists of the City and County of Denver
on the east; a strip of land from six to eight miles in
width extending through four counties on both sides of
the Moffat Road to the crest of the Divide; and three
entire counties and a portion of another county, which
are traversed and reached by the Moffat Road and extend
to the northwestern corner of the State. In short, the
District includes the lands contiguous to the Moffat Road.
The lands lying in the strip extending from Denver to
the Divide are mainly agricultural lands; those lying to
the west of the Divide, while largely devoted to stock
raising, have valuable timber, and the two counties lying
farthest to the northwest have valuable coal deposits.
The testimony in the trial court fairly indicates that the
lands within this District, on both sides of the Divide,
including those owned by the plaintiffs in error, will, generally speaking, by reason of their proximity to the Moffat
Road and the increased facilities of transportation across
the Divide by which the western counties may be able
to market their products to the east and the eastern counties obtain an outlet to the northwest, receive special
benefits from the operation of the tunnel, of a reasonably
direct and immediate character, resulting in increased
value of the lands, in excess of those received by other
lands in the State, and that the legislative classification
is, on the whole, substantially just and reasonable.
The legislature declared that there will be such special
benefits. The trial court, familiar with local conditions,
after hearing evidence on this question, found that there
would be such special benefits and sustained the legislative classification; and the Supreme Court of the State
has affirmed its action. To the extent that there may be
inequalities in the benefits received by the several parcels
of land within the District, they are to be apportioned
by the Commission in the manner provided by the act,
with a right of appeal to the local courts for the correction
of errors in such apportionments.

MILHEIM v. MOFFAT TUNNEL DIST.
710

Opinion of the Court.

And certainly, under all the circumstances, and regarding the District as a whole, the evidence does not justify
us in setting aside the conclusion reached by the trial
court upon the weight of the evidence, or in characterizing the action of the legislature in creating this separate
District upon which the assessments should be made, as
arbitrary, capricious or confiscatory. The legislative determination and classification must, accordingly, be upheld.
3. Appraisal of benefits. It is contended that the Commission arbitrarily adopted an ad valorem basis of appraisal for the apportionment of benefits to the several
parcels of land within the District, without reference to
the actual benefits to each. This argument erroneously
assumes that the Commission had finally adopted such
an ad valorem basis for its appraisal. This is not the case.
It had merely adopted a tentative ad valorem basis, subject to modification and corrections, before final confirmation, after the hearing of objections filed by landowners;
of which public notice was given. These landowners did
not seek to have the Commission modify or correct this
tentative basis of apportionment or file any objections to
the appraisal of benefits to their properties. Presumably
if the tentative appraisal was made on an erroneous basis
it would have been modified upon a proper showing.
Having failed to object to the tentative ad valorem basis
adopted by the Commission or to appear before it for the
purpose of obtaining modifications or corrections as to
their lands before the final adoption of such basis, they
have here no sufficient ground of complaint. Where a
city charter gives property owners an opportunity to be
heard before a board respecting the justice and validity
of local assessments for proposed public improvements
and empowers the board to determine such complaints
before the assessments are made, parties who do not avail
themselves of such opportunity cannot be heard to com-

724

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Order.

262 U. S.

plain of such assessments as unconstitutional. Farncomb
v. Denver, 252 U. S. 7, 11.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Colorado was
plainly right; and as the questions presented do not require further argument, the alternative motion of the
defendants in error is granted, and the judgment is
Affirmed.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
No. 18, Original. Order entered June 11, 1923.
Order providing for release of certain lands from the receivership
herein, upon stated conditions.

On consideration of the motion of the United States
for a release from the existing receivership of the following described lands lying on the north side of the medial
line of Red River, that is to say:
(1) Lot 4 of Section 34 in Township 4 South of Range
14 West embraced in Allotment No. 3385, Comanche,
1910, to Day Tah-Too-Ah-Ni-Pah;
(2) Lot 1 of Section 33 in Township 4 South of Range
14 West embraced in Allotment No. 3303, Kiowa, 1910,
to Ray Do-Yah;
(3) Lot 6 of Section 5 in Township 5 South of Range
14 West embraced in Allotment No. 3293, Kiowa, 1910,
to Maggie Turtle Mountain Reid; and
(4) Lot 5 of Section 5 and Lot 3 of Section 8 in Township 5 South of Range 14 West embraced in Allotment
No. 3413, Comanche, 1910, to Robert To-Quothy,
It is ordered as to each of these tracts that the same,
including so much of the bed of Red River as lies in front
thereof and north of the medial line of the river, be released from the receivership, and the possession be sur-

