OCTOBER TERM. 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

establish a federal right. See also St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. McWhirter, 229 U. S. 265,
275, 276. It is not necessary to draw the line between the
foregoing and other cases brought in Courts of the United
States to assert a claim under the Constitution that have
been ordered to be dismissed below because "absolutely
devoid of merit," Newburyport Water Co. v. Newburyport, 193 U. S. 561, 576, 579, beyond confining the latter
to those that are very plain. It is enough that we are not
prepared to say that nothing can be extracted from this
bill that falls under the act of Congress, or at least that
the claim is wholly frivolous. The bill was brought before
the decision of the Base Ball Club Case, and it may be that
what in general is incidental, in some instances may rise
to a magnitude that requires it to be considered independently. The logic of the general rule as to jurisdiction
is obvious and the case should be decided upon the merits
unless the want of jurisdiction is entirely clear. What relief, if any, could be given and how far it could go it is not
yet time to discuss.
Decree reversed.
EX PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS, ETC., PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR A WRIT OF PROHIBITION AND/OR MANDAMUS.

No. 27, Original.

Argued on return to rile to show cause April
16, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.

1. Where the District Court, after due hearing, overruled objections
to its jurisdiction and made an interlocutory order, held, that a
mandamus from this Court was not the proper remedy for correcting its action, if erroneous. Ex parte Roe, 234 U. S. 70. P. 275.
2. Prohibition will not issue to forbid the District Court from proceeding with a suit, for want of jurisdiction, when it is not clear
that jurisdiction is absent, and when there is no imperative reason

EX PARTE DAVIS.
274

Opinion of the Court.

why error, in that regard, should be corrected by prohibition rather
than by appeal. Id.
Rule discharged; petition denied.

PETITION for mandamus or prohibition to restrain the
District Court from entertaining jurisdiction of a suit in
admiralty to recover damages from the Director General
of Railroads, for a maritime tort.
Mr. T. Catesby Jones, with whom Mr. James W. Ryan,
Mr. Evan Shelby and Mr. D. Roger Englar were on the
briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Mark Ash, with whom Mr. Edward Ash was on the
briefs, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioner seeks a writ of prohibition or mandamus
commanding the judges of the District Court, Southern
District of New York, not to take further steps in an
admiralty proceeding instituted by the New Jersey Shipbuilding & Dredging Company to recover from him for
damage inflicted upon its scow by the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company's steamtug "Mahanoy " while under federal control, or in the alternative to direct vacation of an
interlocutory order theretofore entered and dismiss the
libel. A rule to show cause issued out of this Court and
return has been made showing the relevant facts and
circumstances.
The District Court after hearing ruled upon the matters presented for its determination and, under settled
doctrine, we can find no occasion for mandamus. Ex
parte Roe, 234 U. S. 70.
Involved in the cause are questions touching the liability of the Director General of Railroads as Agent
designated by the President under the Transportation
Act of 1920 for maritime torts committed by vessels un-

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U.S.

der federal control; his power to enter appearance by
counsel without prior service of process; and whether
in the same proceeding he may take different and antagonistic positions, first as the agent of one railroad
system and then of another.
We cannot say the court below was clearly without
jurisdiction to determine all the points presented. Moreover, by appeal in the ordinary way possible errors can
be corrected; and there is no imperative reason for awarding a writ of prohibition. Ex parte Gordon, 104 U. S.
515; Ex parte Pennsylvania, 109 U. S. 174; In re Cooper,
143 U. S. 472, 495; In re Morrison, 147 U. S. 14; In re
New York & Porto Rico S. S. Co., 155 U. S. 523; Ex
parte Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co., 255 U. S.
273, 275, 280.
The rule to show cause is discharged and the prayer
of the petition is denied.
Rule discharged.
STATE OF MISSOURI EX REL. SOUTHWESTERN
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY v. PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF MISSOURI, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 158.

Argued December 8, 1922.-Decided May 21, 1923.

1. Rates fixed by state authority for a public utility corporation
must be such as will yield a fair return upon the value of its
property devoted to the public service. P. 287.
2. What will amount to a fair return cannot be ascertained by valuing the property as of past times without giving consideration to
greatly increased costs of labor, supplies, etc., prevailing at the
time of the investigation. Id.
3. An honest and intelligent forecast of probable future values is
also essential, and this cannot be made if the highly important
element of present costs be wholly disregarded. Id.
4. Rates admitting of a possible return of but 51%, in net profits
after allowing for depreciation, on the minimum value of the prop-

