AMER. BANK v. FED. RESERVE BANK. 643
640

Statement of the Case.

Obviously, this Court has no power to direct the Department of Trade and Commerce of Nebraska to apply
to the state court for the order allowing creditors to prove
their claims in that court. Our jurisdiction is limited in
this proceeding to the correction of the errors committed
by the lower federal courts in taking jurisdiction and in
granting relief. The only course open to the creditors,
as to the receivers and their counsel, is to apply to the
state court.
Motion denied.

AMERICAN BANK & TRUST COMPANY ET AL.
v. -FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIF H CIRCUIT.

No. 717. Argued April 30, May 1, 1923.-Decided June 11, 1923.
1. It is within the statutory powers of a federal reserve bank to
collect checks on state banks within its district, which are not
members of the federal reserve system, or affiliated with it through
establishment of an exchange balance, and which refuse to assent
to clearance at par, provided the checks be payable on presentation
and can in fact be collected consistently with the legal rights of
the drawees without paying an exchange charge. P. 646.
2. Loss of income resulting to country banks from the exercise of
this right without malice or coercion, is damnum absque injuria.
P. 648.
284 Fed. 424, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree made by the District Court after final
hearing, in a suit brought by numerous state banks
against the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and its
officials. The case was here before on a decree sustaining
a demurrer to the bill. 256 U. S. 350.

644

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

Mr. Alexander W. Smith, with whom Mr. Orville A.
Park and Mr. Theodore H. Smith were on the brief, for
appellants.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Mr. Hollins N. Randolph, Mr. Robert S. Parker and Mr. Montgomery B.
Angell were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
After the decision in this case reported in 256 U. S. 350,
an answer was filed which denied, in large part, the allegations of the bill. Then, by an amended answer, the
Federal Reserve Bank disclaimed any intention of demanding payment in cash, when presenting checks at the
banks, and averred its willingness to accept payment in
drafts, either on the drawee's Atlanta correspondent or on
any other solvent bank, if collectible at par. The District Court heard the case upon the evidence. It found
that the Federal Reserve Bank was not inspired by any
ulterior purpose to coerce or to injure any non-member
bank which refused to remit at par. It found that the
evidence was insufficient to sustain any charge that the
Federal Reserve Bank was exercising its rights so as to
injure or oppress plaintiff banks. And it found, specifically, that the evidence did not sustain the charge that the
Federal Reserve Bank accumulated checks upon nonmember country banks until they reached a large amount
and then caused the checks to be presented for payment
over the counter, in order to compel plaintiff banks to
keep in their vaults so much cash that they would be
obliged either to agree to remit at par or to go out of
business. With regard to publication on the par list of
the names of non-assenting banks, the District Court held
that the evidence did not justify a finding that such publication was made in order to injure or oppress plaintiff

AMER. BANK v. FED. RESERVE BANK. 645
643 -

Opinion of the Court.

banks. But it was of opinion that insertion of their
names might lead to the belief that the plaintiff banks
had agreed to remit at par. An injunction was, therefore,
granted against inclusion of their names on the par list.
The relief sought was in all other respects denied. The
decree left the Federal Reserve Bank free to publish that
it would make collection at par of checks upon any bank
in any town, thus including those in which plaintiffs had
their respective places of business. 280 Fed. 940. These
findings were approved by the Circuit Court of Appeals;
and the decree was affirmed. 284 Fed. 424.
The case is here on an appeal taken by the plaintiffs.
The evidence was conflicting. No adequate reason is
shown why the concurrent findings of fact made by the
two lower courts should not be accepted by us. Luckenbach v. McCahan Sugar Refining Co., 248 U. S. 139, 145.
Whether on the undisputed facts plaintiffs were entitled
to additional relief is the main question for decision. In
order to decide that question it is necessary to consider
the course of business formerly prevailing and the changes
wrought by the attempt to introduce universal par clearance and collection of checks through the federal reserve
banks.
A large part of the checks drawn on country banks are
sent to payees who reside in places other than that in
which the drawee bank is located. Payment of such a
check is ordinarily secured through the payee's depositing it in his local bank for collection. This bank ordinarily used, as the means for presenting the check to the
drawee, a clearing house and/or correspondent banks.
Formerly when the check was so presented, the drawee
ordinarily paid, not in cash, but by a remittande drawn
on his balance in some reserve city or by a credit with
some correspondent. This process of collection yielded
to the country bank a two-fold profit. It earned some
profit by the small service charge called exchange, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

it made for the remittance or the credit. And it earned
some profit by using the depositor's money during the
period (sometimes weeks) in which the check was travelling the often circuitous route, with many stops, from the
payee's bank to its own, and also while the exchange
draft was being collected. These avenues to profit are,
in large measure, closed by the federal reserve banks'
course of action. These banks do not pay any exchange
charges to the drawee. And their superior facilities so
shorten the time required to collect checks that the
drawee bank's balances available for loans are much reduced. Largely because of the fact that the reserve banks
thus make the collection without any deduction for exchange, most checks on country banks are now routed
through the reserve banks. Although there is, as the
District Court found, no intentional accumulation or holding of checks in order to embarrass, the advantages offered
by the federal reserve banks have created a steady flow
in increased volume of checks on country banks so routed.
That the action contemplated by the Federal Reserve
Bank will subject the country banks to certain losses is
clear.' In order to protect them from the resulting loss it
would be necessary to prevent the federal reserve banks
from accepting the checks for collection. For these banks
cannot be compelled to pay exchange charges or to abandon superior facilities.
The contention is that the injunction should issue, because it is ultra vires the federal reserve banks to collect
checks on banks which are not members of the system or
affiliated with it, through establishing an exchange balance, and which have definitely refused to assent to clearance at par. It is true that Congress has created in the
reserve banks institutions special in character, with lim1

It is said that introduction of a universal system of par clearance

and collection of checks through the federal reserve banks would
bring compensatory advantages to the country banks.

AMER. BANK v. FED. RESERVE BANK. 647
643

Opinion of the Court.

ited functions and with duties and powers carefully prescribed. Those in respect to the collection of checks are
clearly defined. The original act (Act of December 23,
1913, c. 6, § 13, 38 Stat. 251, 263) authorized the reserve
banks to "receive from any of its member banks, and
from the United States, deposits of .
.
checks
upon solvent member banks, payable upon presentation; or, solely for exchange purposes, may receive
from other Federal reserve banks deposits of
checks . . . upon solvent member or other Federal
reserve banks, payable upon presentation."
By the amendment to § 13 of September 7, 1916, c. 461,
39 Stat. 752, the class of checks receivable was extended
to "checks payable upon presentation within the district."
By the amendment to § 13 of June 21, 1917, c. 32, § 4,
40 Stat. 232, 235, the class of banks from which checks
might be received "solely for collection" was extended.
By the latter amendment the facilities offered by the
federal reserve banks were made available also to such
non-members as became affiliated with the federal reserve
system by establishing the required balance "to offset the
items in transit." It is true, also, that in practice this
amendment might result in excluding checks on particular
banks from the class collectible through the federal reserve banks. For it enacted the clause which prohibits
payment of exchange charges by federal reserve banks.
And as this prohibition would prevent reserve banks from
using the usual channels in making collection of checks
drawn on those country banks which insist upon exchange
charges, the reserve bank might find it impossible or
unwise, as a matter of banking practice, to collect such
checks at all. But the class of checks to which the reserve
bank's collection service might legally be applied, was left
by the amendment as those "payable upon presentation
within its district." Wherever collection can be made by
the federal reserve bank, without paying exchange, neither

648

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

the common law, nor the Federal Reserve Act precludes
their undertaking it; if it can be done consistently with
the rights of the country banks already determined in this
case. 256 U. S. 350.
Federal reserve banks are, thus, authorized by Congress
to collect for other reserve banks, for members, and for
affiliated non-members, checks on any bank within their
respective districts, if the check is payable on presentation
and can in fact be collected consistently with the legal
rights of the drawee without paying an exchange charge.
Within these limits federal reserve banks have ordinarily
the same right to present a check to the drawee bank for
payment over the counter, as any other bank, state or.
national, would have. For § 4, (38 Stat. 251, 254) provides that the federal reserve banks shall have power:
"Seventh. To exercise by its board of directors, or duly
authorized officers or agents, all powers specifically
granted by the provisions of this Act and such incidental
powers as shall be necessary to carry on the business of
banking within the limitations prescribed by this Act."
The findings of fact negative the charges of wrongful
intent and of coercion. The Federal Reserve Bank has
formally declared that it is willing, when presenting
checks, to accept in payment a draft of the drawee bank
upon its Atlanta correspondent or a draft upon any other
solvent bank-if collectible at par. Country banks are
not entitled to protection against legitimate competition.
Their loss here shown is of the kind to which business
concerns are commonly subjected when improved facilities are introduced by others, or a more efficient competitor enters the field. It is damnum absque injuria. As
the course of action contemplated by the Federal Reserve
Bank is not ultra vires, we need not consider whether lack
of power, if it had existed, would have entitled plaintiffs
to relief. Compare National Bank v. Matthews, 98 U. S.
62i; Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400, 450.

FARMERS BANK v. FED. RESERVE BANK. 649
643

Syllabus.

Some minor objections are urged. The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta serves, directly, only the Sixth
Reserve District, which includes Georgia. It is contended that the decree should be reversed because the
District Court refused to allow the intervention as plaintiffs of banks located outside of that district; because that
court refused to admit evidence of the activities engaged
in by other federal reserve banks in other districts under
the approval of the Federal Reserve Board; and because
the court admitted certain joint answers to interrogatories
propounded under Equity Rule 58. We cannot say that
the trial court abused the discretion vested in it, or erred,
in so ruling.
Affirmed.
FARMERS AND MERCHANTS BANK OF MONROE,
NORTH CAROLINA, ET AL. v. FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND, VIRGINIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 823. Argued April 30, May 1, 1923.-Decided June 11, 1923.
1. Many state banks, in satisfying checks drawn upon them by their
depositors and sent through other banks for collection, were
accustomed to remit by draft on their reserves elsewhere and to
make a small charge, called exchange, deducted from the remittance. The Federal Reserve Board, and the federal reserve banks,
being forbidden to pay exchange charges, but believing it their
duty to accept checks on any bank for collection and to make par
clearance and collection of checks universal throughout the United
States, adopted the practice of causing checks drawn on state banks
which refused par clearance to be presented to such banks at the
counter for payment in cash. To protect North Carolina banks
from serious loss of income which would ensue from this practice,
both through reduction of exchange charges and through transference of income-producing assets to their vaults, the legislature of
that State enacted, (Pub. Laws 1921, c. 20) that any check drawn

