DIER v. BANTON.
Argument for Appellants.

DIER ET AL., INDIVIDUALLY AND AS COPARTNERS UNDER THE FIRM NAME OF E. D. DIER
& COMPANY, ET AL., v. BANTON, DISTRICT
ATTORNEY OF THE COUNTY OF NEW YORK,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 330.

Argued April 17, 1923.-Decided May 7, 1923.

1. One who has been adjudged an involuntary bankrupt and has

complied with an order requiring him to turn over his books and
papers to a receiver is not privileged by the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments to prevent their production by the receiver before a
grand jury in a state court upon the ground that he might thus
be incriminated.

P. 149.

2. Books and papers in the possession of a receiver in bankruptcy
appointed by a federal court cannot be taken by a subpoena issuing from a state court, unless the federal court, exercising its discretion with due regard for comity, shall consent. P. 151.
279 Fed. 274, affirmed.

.APPEAL from an order of the District Court discharging
a rule nisi and refusing to enjoin the production of books
and papers, in the custody of its receiver in bankruptcy,
before a grand jury in a state court.
Mr. Nash Rockwood for appellants.
It will be noted that the petition in bankruptcy was
an involuntary proceeding instituted by creditors, and
that when the receiver, upon appointment, took possession of the books, records and documents of the alleged
bankrupts, he did so wholly under the specific order of
the court. This was not such a delivery of the books by
the bankrupts as constituted a waiver of their constitutional rights. If they had interfered with the receiver
in obtaining possession of the books, it would have been
a contempt of court. The order of the court, which was
wholly ex parte, did not in any way protect or seek to

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

protect the constitutional privileges of the alleged bankrupts. In this respect the order differed materially from
the order of the District Court in Matter of Harris, 221
U. S. 274.
A trustee under the Bankruptcy Act has title, whereas
a receiver is only an arm of the court, to hold possession
without title, and his possession is the possession of the
bankrupts. In re Hess, 134 Fed. 109. See Counselman
v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547; Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S.
591; Ensign v. Pennsylvania,227 U. S. 592.
The bankrupts' objection to the use of the books in
the criminal prosecution by the District Attorney of New
York County was made in due time.
Let us assume that the petition in bankruptcy had
been dismissed, then the bankrupts would again have
been entitled to possession of their books. Could it be
held that, because the books had temporarily passed into
the legal possession of the receiver, their constitutional
rights with reference to criminal proceedings had been
waived? Johnson v. United States, 228 U. S. 457; Boy4
v. United States, 116 U. S. 616; Weeks v. United States,
232 U. S. 383; Flagg v. United States, 233 Fed. 481;
Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385;
Amos v. United States, 255 U. S. 313.
The order is appealable to this Court.
Mr. Joab H. Banton and Mr. John Caldwell Myers
appeared for Banton, District Attorney, appellee.
Mr. Saul S. Myers, Mr. Walter H. Pollak and Mr.
William J. Hughes appeared for Ehrich, Trustee in Bankruptcy, appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This appeal is from an order of the District Court for the
Southern District of New York discharging a rule nisi and

DIER v. BANTON.
147

Opinion of the Court.

refusing an injunction. On January 14, 1922, a petition
in involuntary bankruptcy was filed against Elmore D.
Dier and others, partners, as E. D. Dier & Company. Two
days after the filing of the petition, Manfred W. Ehrich was
appointed Receiver of the estate of the alleged bankrupts,
and they and their servants were directed to turn over
all their property, assets, account books and records and
were restrained from suing out of any other court any
process to impound or take possession of them. This
order was complied with and the Receiver took possession
of the books and papers of the alleged bankrupts and of the
firm. On February 16th, Dier informed the court that
the District Attorney of New York County had applied
to the Receiver for the production of these books and
papers before the Grand Jury, and asked for the rule nisi
against the Receiver and the District Attorney, and upon
a hearing thereof an injunction to prevent the use of such
books and papers against him before the Grand Jury, on
the ground that they would incriminate him and that his
right to refuse to testify against himself under the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments would thus be violated by the
process of the Federal District Court. Judge Learned
Hand, sitting in bankruptcy, discharged the rule and refused to enjoin the proposed use of the books. Judge
Hand's action was based on the ruling of this Court in
Johnson v. United States, 228 U. S. 457. He quoted the
language used in the Johnson Case, "A party is privileged from producing the evidence but not from its production." He alluded to the circumstance that in the
Johnson Case there were both title and possession in the
Trustee, whereas in this case, the books and papers were
in the hands of the Receiver who has no title but that, he
said, made no difference. We agree with this view and
hold that the right of the alleged bankrupt to protest
against the use of his books and papers relating to his
business as evidence against him ceases as soon as his pos-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

session and control over them pass from him by the order
directing their delivery into the hands of the Receiver
and into the custody of the court. This change of possession and control is for the purpose of properly carrying on the investigation into the affairs of the alleged
bankrupt and the preservation of his assets pending such
investigation, the adjudication of bankruptcy vel non,
and if bankruptcy is adjudged, the proper distribution of
the estate. It may be that the allegation of bankruptcy
will not be sustained, and in that case, the alleged bankrupt will be entitled to a return of his property including
his books and papers; and when they are returned, he may
refuse to produce them and stand on his constitutional
.rights. But while they are, in the due course of the bankruptcy proceedings, taken out of his possession and control, his immunity from producing them, secured him
under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments, does not enure
to his protection. He has lost any right to object to their
use as evidence because, not for purpose of evidence, but
in the due investigation of his alleged bankruptcy and the
preservation of his estate pending such investigation, the
control and possession of his books and papers relating
to his business were lawfully taken from him.
It is pressed upon us that the bankrupt may prevent
the use of such books and papers taken over by a receiver
in the bankruptcy proceedings for evidence in a criminal
case in the state court by resisting surrender and protesting against their use for such a purpose at the time the
Receiver took possession. But we think the alleged bankrupt has no such right. We so held in Ex parte
Fuller, ante, 91, in which it was sought to attach conditions of this kind to the turning over of the books and
papers of a bankrupt to the Trustee in Bankruptcy. We
are of opinion that the same principle must apply to
the delivery of the books and papers relating to the bankrupt's business and property included in the estate into
the custody of the Receiver of the Bankruptcy Court.

ESSGEE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
147

Syllabus.

Of course, where such books and papers are in the custody of the Bankruptcy Court, they can not be taken
therefrom by subpcena of a state court except upon consent of the federal court. In granting or withholding that
consent the latter exercises a judicial discretion dependent
on the circumstances, and having due regard to the comity
which- should be observed toward state courts exercising
jurisdiction within the same territory. Ponzi v. Fessenden, 258 U. S. 254, 259. All we hold here is that the court
below having exercised discretion to allow the use of the
books and papers in the custody of its officer upon subpcena by another court, the alleged bankrupt's rights
under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments have not been
violated.
Order affirmed.
ESSGEE COMPANY OF CHINA ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES.
HANCLAIRE TRADING CORPORATION ET AL. v.
UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW
YORK.

Nos. 706 and 707.

Submitted April 25, 1923.-Decided May 7, 1923.

1. Review of orders of the District Court in special proceedings in
which no jury can intervene is by appeal, and not by writ of
error. P.152.
2. In view of provisions of the Act of September 6, 1916, rendering mistakes in proceeding by writ of error instead of appeal, or
vice versa, immaterial from the standpoint of jurisdiction, the practice of adopting both methods through abundant caution is discouraged. Id.
3. A corporation is not protected by the Fourth and Fifth Amendments from producing its books and records before a federal
grand jury engaged in investigating its conduct in relation to the
federal criminal laws. P. 155.

