HOUSTON COAL CO. v. U. S.
355

Argument for the United States.

swered with entire impunity." Arndstein v. McCarthy,
supra, p. 72.
The order of the District Court sustaining the writ
and discharging Arndstein from custody is accordingly
Affirmed.
HOUSTON COAL COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 365. Argued April 10, 1923.-Decided June 4, 1923.
Section 10 of the Lever Act grants jurisdiction to the District
Court of an action against the United States to recover the difference between what the Government has paid the plaintiff as just
compensation for property requisitioned under that section, and
what the plaintiff, alleging that the payment was accepted under
protest, because of duress, and with express reservation of the right
to demand more, claims to be just compensation. P. 364.
Reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court dismissing,
for want of jurisdiction, an action under the Lever Act,
to recover the difference between what the Government
paid the plaintiff, as just compensation in full, for property requisitioned, and a larger amount which, plaintiff
alleged, was the true value.
Mr. A. Julius Freiberg and Mr. Ira Jewell Williams,
with whom Mr. W. A. Geoghegan was on the briefs, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
The jurisdiction conferred upon the District Courts by
§ 10 of the Lever Act does not extend to suits brought

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for the United States.

262 U. S.

to recover additional compensation after the property
owner has elected to receive, and has received, the amount
determined by the President to be just compensation, nor
to suits to avoid an accord and satisfaction upon the
ground that it was obtained by duress.
Section 10 of the Lever Act provided two methods of
payment. First, the President was directed to ascertain
the just compensation and pay it. Second, if the owner
of the property taken elected not to accept the President's
award he was to be paid 75 per cent. thereof and could
sue for such additional amount as would make the compensation just, and jurisdiction was conferred upon the
District Courts to hear and determine that issue.
The Government claims that such were the only issues
which the District Courts were empowered to entertain.
The District Courts have no general jurisdiction of
suits against the United States other than that conferred
by § 24, Jud. Code, pursuant to which they sit as courts
of claims, without a jury, in cases involving claims not
exceeding $10,000. Statutes extending the right to sue
the Government and conferring jurisdiction upon the
courts for that purpose will, as a general rule, be strictly
construed, Blackfeather v. United States, 190 U. S. 368;
and the jurisdiction can not be enlarged by implication.
Price v. United States, 174 U. S. 373, 375.
It is only when a controversy within the terms of the
Lever Act is stated that the District Court has jurisdiction to entertain it against the United States. If that
court might not entertain the case by virtue of that par-ticular act, it might not entertain it at all. That the
petition must show a case within the statutory permission
to sue the United States or fail for want of jurisdiction is
undoubted. Hill v. United States, 149 U. S. 593; Haupt
v. United States, 254 U. S. 272; Great Western Serum Co.
v. United States, 254 U. S. 240; United States v. Nederlandsch-Amerikaansche Stoomvaart, 254 U. S. 148.

HOUSTON COAL CO. v. U. S.
361

Argument for the United States.

It would seem to be clear that, from the language of

§ 10 of the Lever Act, the only issue which Congress contemplated would arise under the act was that of just compensation, and it was willing, indeed, it insisted, that the
property owner have the right of trial by jury as to that
issue. United States v. Pfitsch, 256 U. S. 547.
The alleged facts constituting the duress are that plaintiff was told that the document which it was asked to sign
was an order; that, if it was not obeyed, certain payments
then due and to become due would not be paid; that its
coal and mines would be confiscated, although there was
no claim by the officers making the threats that the President would find it necessary, to secure an adequate supply
of necessaries for the Army or for the maintenance of the
Navy, or for any other public use connected with the
common defense, to take over the mines or confiscate the
coal, and although the fact was, to the full knowledge
of the President and of the officers, that there was an
abundant supply, or source of supply, for all of said
purposes.
In avoidance of the receipt in full which it gave, the
plaintiff therefore seeks to obtain the verdict of a jury
upon the good faith of the President of the United States
and of the officers acting under his authority. To hold
that § 10 of the Lever Act conferred general jurisdiction
upon the District Courts to try with a jury cases involving such issues as these is not to be believed. It is not
merely an action for just compensation. It seeks to set
aside an accord and satisfaction on the ground of duress.
After a property owner has elected to take, and has
received, the award of the President, no cause of action
cognizable in the District Courts remains. The facts
constituting the alleged duress are unavailing.
Mr. Ira Jewell Williams, Mr. Henry Hudson, Mr. F. R.
Foraker, Mr. John H. Stone and Mr. Francis Shunk
Brown, by leave of court, filed a brief as amici curiae.

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

262 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This cause went off below on motion to dismiss the petition and the record presents a question of jurisdiction
only. Judicial Code, § 238. Did the District Court have
authority to hear and determine the issues tendered by
plaintiff in error? The point is not free from difficulty;
but, after considering the contending views, we conclude
there was jurisdiction and that the judgment to the contrary must be reversed.
Purporting to proceed under authority granted by § 10 1
of the Lever Act, approved August 10, 1917, c. 53, 40 Stat.
276, the President, acting through the Secretary of the
Navy, requisitioned coal belonging to the plaintiff in error
and paid therefor four dollars per ton, just compensation
as ascertained by him. Alleging that this was received
under protest, because of duress, and with express reser' See. 10. That the President is authorized, from time to time, to
requisition foods, feeds, fuels, and other supplies necessary to the
support of the Army or the maintenance of the Navy, or any other
public use connected with the common defense, and to requisition,
or otherwise provide, storage facilities for such supplies; and he shall
ascertain and pay a just compensation therefor. If the compensation so determined be not satisfactory to the person entitled to receive the same, such person shall be paid seventy-five per centum of
the amount so determined by the President, and shall be entitled to
sue the United States to recover such further sum as, added to said
seventy-five per centum will make up such amount as will be just
compensation for such necessaries or storage space, and jurisdiction
is hereby conferred on the United States District Courts to hear and
determine all such controversies: Provided, That nothing in this section, or in the section that follows, shall be construed to require any
natural person to furnish to the Government any necessaries held by
him and reasonably required for consumption or use by himself and
dependents, nor shall any person, firm, corporation, or association be
required to furnish to the Government any seed necessary for the
seeding of land owned, leased, or cultivated by them.

HOUSTON COAL CO. v. U. S.
361

Opinion of the Court.

vation of the right to demand more, the Coal Company
instituted the original action to recover the difference between the amount received and what it claimed to be just
compensation. The court held that § 10 did not grant
permission to sue the United States therein to one who
has received the amount determined by the President for
requisitioned articles; and that it lacked jurisdiction to
adjudicate the issues which the petition presented.
The Lever Act was passed in view of the constitutional
provision inhibiting the taking of private property for
public use without just compensation. It vested the
President with extraordinary powers over the property of
individuals which might be exercised through an agent at
any place within the confines of the Union with many
consequent hardships. As heretofore pointed out, United
States v. Pfitsch, 256 U. S. 547, by deliberate purpose the
different sections of the act provide varying remedies for
owners-some in the district courts and some in the Court
of Claims.
It reasonably may be assumed that Congress intended
the remedy provided by each section should be adequate
fairly to meet the exigencies consequent upon contemplated action thereunder and thus afford complete protection to the rights of owners. Considering this purpose
and the attending circumstances, we think § 10 sh6uld
be so construed as to give the district courts jurisdiction
of those controversies which arise directly out of requisitions authorized by that section.
Reversed.

