ESSGEE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
147

Syllabus.

Of course, where such books and papers are in the custody of the Bankruptcy Court, they can not be taken
therefrom by subpcena of a state court except upon consent of the federal court. In granting or withholding that
consent the latter exercises a judicial discretion dependent
on the circumstances, and having due regard to the comity
which- should be observed toward state courts exercising
jurisdiction within the same territory. Ponzi v. Fessenden, 258 U. S. 254, 259. All we hold here is that the court
below having exercised discretion to allow the use of the
books and papers in the custody of its officer upon subpcena by another court, the alleged bankrupt's rights
under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments have not been
violated.
Order affirmed.
ESSGEE COMPANY OF CHINA ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES.
HANCLAIRE TRADING CORPORATION ET AL. v.
UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW
YORK.

Nos. 706 and 707.

Submitted April 25, 1923.-Decided May 7, 1923.

1. Review of orders of the District Court in special proceedings in
which no jury can intervene is by appeal, and not by writ of
error. P.152.
2. In view of provisions of the Act of September 6, 1916, rendering mistakes in proceeding by writ of error instead of appeal, or
vice versa, immaterial from the standpoint of jurisdiction, the practice of adopting both methods through abundant caution is discouraged. Id.
3. A corporation is not protected by the Fourth and Fifth Amendments from producing its books and records before a federal
grand jury engaged in investigating its conduct in relation to the
federal criminal laws. P. 155.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

4. The lawful effect of a subpcena duces tecum addressed to a
corporation is not disturbed by failure to put its officers who
produce the papers on the stand. P. 157.
5. A claim of irregularity in not calling such officers before the
grand jury, held, to have been waived by their conduct. Id.
6. An officer of a corporation having custody of its books and papers
can not object to producing them upon the ground that they
may disclose his own guilt. P. 158.
Affirmed.
REVIEW of orders of the District Court denying petitions for the return of books and papers produced under
a subpoena duces tecum.

Mr. W. M. K. Olcott and Mr. A. A. Silberberg for
plaintiffs in error and appellants.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr. Assistant Attorney
General Crim, Mr. Clifford H. Byrnes, Special Assistant
to the Attorney General, and Mr. Francis A. McGurk
for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are appeals and writs of error to review the
action of the District Court in denying petitions of the
two companies, the Essgee Company of China and the
Hanclaire Trading Corporation, praying that the books
and papers produced by an officer of the two companies,
in response to a duces tecum issued to them by order of
the Federal Grand Jury, be returned to the petitioners,
on the ground that the process issued and the detention
of the books by the Government were and are in violation of their rights under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Federal Constitution.
Both appeals and writs of error were allowed in these
cases. This was unnecessary. The review sought is of
an order of the District Court in a special proceeding in

ESSGEE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
151

Opinion of the Court.

which no jury can intervene. It likens itself in its appellate character to a review of cases in equity or in admiralty or of an oider upon a writ of habeas corpus in which
issues of facts are triable' to the court, and in which the
review may properly involve a rexamination by the reviewing court of the whole record and of the findings of
the court upon both the law and the evidence therein.
Since the passage of the Act of September 6, 1916, entitled "An Act To amend the Judicial Code" (39 Stat. 726,
c. 448, ยง 4), which provides that no court having power
to review a judgment or decree passed by another shall
dismiss a writ of error solely because an appeal should
have been taken, or dismiss an appeal because a writ
should have been sued. out, but that when such mistake
or error occurs, it shall disregard the same and take the
action which would be appropriate if the proper appellate
procedure had been followed, the distinction is not important from the standpoint of the jurisdiction of this
Court. In the interest, however, of orderly procedure,
economy in time of both courts, and in the making up
and printing of the record, counsel should make every
effort to select the proper procedure in review and not
duplicate methods out of an abundant caution which the
Act of 1916 makes unnecessary.
The Hanclaire Trading Corporation and the Essgee
Company of China were organized under the laws of New
York and were doing an importing business in New York
City. Schratter was an officer in both companies and
Kramer was an officer of one and attorney for both. The
Federal Grand Jury in the Southern District of New York
was investigating charges of frauds in importations by
these two companies whose interests and transactions
were intermingled. On October 14, 1921, a subpoena
duces tecum was served upon each of the corporations by
personal service upon Schratter as a chief officer thereof.
Schratter then directed Kramer to gather together the

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

books and papers called for and produce them at the
Federal Court House. The subpoena was served by the
U. S. Marshal for the District. He was accompanied by
three other Government officials, who, it was charged,
without authority examined and took away to the Court
House other books and papers not included in the list set
forth in the duces tecum. This incident was made an
issue in the affidavits; but it is evident from reading the
record and the admission of counsel that we are not concerned with any such records and papers, but only with
those which were produced by Kramer for the two companies in response to the duces tecum. Schratter in his
affidavit and petition claims that under the subpoena
some papers belonging to him individually were taken,
but an examination of the list of records and papers produced, shows that the only personal paper produced by
Kramer was the personal tax return of Schratter, which
he does not assert was in any way relevant to the charges,
or in any degree incriminating as to him. Kramer and
Schratter brought the records and papers called for by
the subpoena to a room in the Court House and deposited
them on a table where the District Attorney found them
and took charge of them. Neither Schratter nor Kramer
was then called before the Grand Jury, but they were
both at once arrested upon warrants for violation of the
importing laws. They testified that they did not see the
District Attorney when he took the records and papers
and that Kramer demanded a return of them and protested against their detention. Evidence to the contrary
is offered by the Government witnesses, but we do not
regard the issue as material.
The next day, October 15, 1921, Schratter appeared before Judge Knox and applied for permission to go abroad
in order to attend to business of vital personal importance.
Schratter remained abroad until June, 1922, and on the
9th of that month appeared to plead to an indictment

ESSGEE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
151

Opinion of the Court.

which had in the meantime been found against the two
corporations and himself. Meantime, Kramer, after
much solicitation on his part, was given an opportunity to
testify to the Grand Jury and to present to them other
records and papers which he voluntarily produced. He
was not indicted. After Schratter's return and Kramer's
escape from indictment, the two corporations and Schratter filed the petition, denial of which by the District Court
is now before us for review.
The books and papers brought before the Grand Jury
and the court in this case were the books, records and
papers of corporations of the State of New York. Such
corporations do not enjoy the same immunity that individuals have, under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments,
from being compelled by due and lawful process to produce
them for examination by the state or Federal Government. Referring to the books and papers of a corporation, Mr. Justice Hughes speaking for this Court in Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S.361, 382, said:
"They have reference to business transacted for the
benefit of the group of individuals whose association has
the advantage of corporate organization. But the corporate form of business activity, with its charter privileges, raises a distinction when the authority of government demands the examination of books. That demand, expressed in lawful process, confining its requirements within the limits which reason imposes in the circumstances of the case, the corporation has no privilege
to refuse. It cannot resist production upon the ground
of self-incrimination. Although the object of the inquiry may be to detect the abuses it has committed, .to
discover its violations of law and to inflict punishment by
forfeiture of franchises or otherwise; it must submit its
books and papers to duly constituted authority when demand is suitably made. This is involved in the reservation of the visitatorial power of the State, and in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

authority of the National Government where the corporate activities are in the domain subject to the powers
of Congress." Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, and Wheeler
v. United States, 226 U. S. 478, are to the same point.
Counsel for appellants rely upon Silverthorne Lumber
Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385, but it has no application to the case before us. The Silverthorne Case was a
writ of error to reverse a judgment for contempt against
a corporation for refusal to obey an order of the court to
produce books and documents of the company to be used
to show violation of law by the officers of the company.
This Court found that without a shadow of authority and
under color of an invalid writ, the marshal and other
government officers had made a clean sweep of all the
books, papers and documents in the office of the company
while its officers were under arrest. These documents
were copied and photographed and then the court ordered
their return to the company. A subpoena was then issued
to compel the production of the originals. The company
refused to obey the subpcena. The court made an order
requiring obedience and refusal to obey the order was the
contempt alleged. This Court held that the Government
could not, while in form repudiating the illegal seizure,
maintain its right to avail itself of the knowledge obtained
by that means which otherwise it would not have had.
In other words, we held that the search thus made was an
unreasonable one against which the corporation was protected by the Fourth Amendment and which vitiated all
the subsequent proceedings to compel production. There
was nothing inconsistent with the Wilson Case in this
ruling for, as we have seen in the passage quoted from the
opinion in that case, a corporation can only be compelled
to produce its records against itself by the demand of the
Government expressed in lawful process, confining its requirements within limits which reason imposes in the
circumstances of the case. It is to submit its books and

ESSGEE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
151

Opinion of the Court.

papers only to "duly constituted authority when demand
is suitably made." In the case before us the demand was
suitably made by duly constituted authority. In the Silverthorne Case, it was not. Here it was expressed in lawful process, confining its requirements to certain described
documents and papers easily distinguished and clearly
described. Their relevancy to the subject of investigation was not denied. As said in the Wilson Case (p. 376):
"But there is no unreasonable search and seizure, when a
writ, suitably specific and properly limited in its scope,
calls for the production of documents which, as against
their lawful owner to whom the writ is directed, the party
procuring its issuance is entitled to have produced."
Objection is made that neither Kramer nor Schratter
was called before the Grand Jury when they produced
the books and papers in response to the duces tecum.
That was not necessary. The subpcena only summoned
the corporations to appear and produce the named documents and papers. There was no real ad testificandum
clause in the subpcena because a corporation could not
testify. It was expressly ruled in the Wilson Case, that
the failure to put officers of the corporation on the stand
in such a case did not in any way invalidate or destroy
the lawful effect of the duces tecum.
Kramer says that he protested against the retention of
the documents he had produced at the time because he
was not called before the Grand Jury. At his own solicitation he was thereafter called before that body and testified and voluntarily produced other documents and
papers, and never renewed his demand for the documents
produced under subpoena until after the Grand Jury
ignored the charge against him some eight months later.
Schratter against the opposition' of the District Attorney
but with the consent of the court absented himself from
the country for eight months and took no steps in respect
to the produced documents and papers. Judge Knox

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

held that such conduct constituted a waiver of any irregularities in not calling these witnesses before the Grand
Jury when the documents and papers were produced. If
a waiver were needed, as we do not think it was under
the Wilson Case, this clearly would have been sufficient.
Schratter joined with each corporation in asking a return of the documents and papers of that corporation on
the ground that they might incriminate him. But the
cases of Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43; Wilson v. United
States, 221 U. S. 361, and Wheeler v. United States, 226
U. S. 478, show clearly that an officer of a corporation
in whose custody are its books and papers is given no
right to object to the production of the corporate records
because they may disclose his guilt. He does not hold
them in his private capacity and is not, therefore, protected against their production or against a writ requiring him as agent of the corporation to produce them.
Appellants cite the cases of Boyd v. United States,
116 U. S. 616; Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, and
Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298, to support their
contention that the proceedings complained of herein violate their rights under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments.
Those cases were all unreasonable searches of documents
and records belonging to individuals. The distinction between the cases before us and those cases lies in the more
limited application of the Amendments to the compulsory production of corporate documents and papers as
shown in the Henkel, Wilson and Wheeler Cases.
The order of the District Court is affirmed.

