U. S. v. NEW RIVER COLLIERIES.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. NEW RIVER COLLIERIES
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.

No. 316. Argued March 7, 8, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.
1. Under ยง 10 of the Lever Act and the Fifth Amendment, the
owner of property requisitioned by the United States is entitled
to the full money equivalent of the property taken; and the
ascertainment of this just compensation is a judicial function.
P. 343.
2. Where private property is taken for public use, and there is a
market price prevailing at the time and place of the taking, that
price is just compensation. P. 344.
3. Evidence of the cost of production, and of what would be a
reasonable profit, to the owner, is inadmissible when market prices,
prevailing at the time and place of the taking, have been established beyond controversy. P. 344.
4. Evidence of prices of coal for future delivery current at the time
and place of taking, has no weight against market prices then and
there current for immediate delivery; nor any tendency to prove
what they were. P. 344.
5. An owner of coal who, at the time and place of its taking by the
Government, could clearly have sold it for a higher export market
price, and had the right to do so, is not justly compensated by
payment of a lower, domestic market price, current there at the
same time. P. 345.
276 Fed. 690, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of

the Circuit Court of Appeals

which affirmed a judgment for the Collieries Company in

the District Court in an action to recovqr a balance due
as compensation for coal requisitioned by the United
States.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Beck, Mr. L. L. Hight, Special Assistant

to the Attorney General, and Mr. R. S. Collins were on
the brief, for the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

Mr. Ira Jewell Williams, with whom Mr. Charles L.
Guerin, Mr. Yale L. Schekter, Mr. F. R. Foraker and
Mr. FrancisShunk Brown were on the briefs, for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On various dates between September 17, 1919, and February 1, 1921, at Hampton Roads, Virginia, the United
States requisitioned from defendant in error upwards of
60,000 tons of bituminous coal for use of the Navy. The
taking was under ยง 10 of the Lever Act. 40 Stat. 276.
The President, acting through the Navy Department,
fixed certain prices as just compensation. These were
not satisfactory to the owner. The United States paid
75% of the amount fixed, or, under stipulation of the
parties is to be considered as having paid it in accordance with the act. The owner sued in the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey for a sum
which added to the 75% would make just compensation.
Three actions were consolidated and tried as one. There
was no controversy as to the quantity or quality of the
coal taken. Judgment was entered in accordance with
the verdict of a jury, fixing prices in excess of those
allowed by the President. The Government took the
case to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and to review its
judgment affirming that of the District Court brings the
case here on writ of error.
When the coal was taken, there was at Hampton Roads
a market for co~tl for export and also a domestic market.
The business of the defendant in error was chiefly in the
export trade. During the period in question, it produced
about 907,000 tons and sold nearly two-thirds of it for
export. Many producers shipped coal there which, with
the coal of defendant in error, went into a common pool.
There was a strong demand for export coal. There

U. S. v. NEW RIVER COLLIERIES.
341

Opinion of the Court.

were many buyers and export prices fluctuated. About
36,000,000 tons were sold in the open market. Supply
and demand were controlling factors affecting market
prices which prevailed in both the export and domestic
markets. The prices for export coal were considerably
higher than for domestic coal. If the coal had not been
taken by the United States, it could have been sold by
the owner at export market prices. The market prices
for export coal were shown by a number of witnesses of
long experience and familiar with the market, by excerpts
from leading trade journals, and by a statement of prices
actually received by defendant in error for export coal
during that period. On that point the United States
offered no opposing evidence. The court held market
prices for export coal constituted just compensation, and
left to the jury the ascertainment thereof.
The United States contends that the court erred in
refusing, under the circumstances disclosed, to allow it
to introduce evidence of the "real" value of the coal as
distinguished from its market value, and in holding that
spot export prices controlled in determining just compensation; and further that, even if such market prices
are taken, it was error to exclude evidence of domestic
prices.
Section 10 of the Lever Act in obedience to the Fifth
Amendment provides for just compensation. The war
or the conditions which followed it did not suspend or
affect these provisions. United States v. Cohen Grocery
Co., 255 U. S. 81, 88.1 The owner was entitled to the
full money equivalent of the property taken, and thereby
to be put in as good position pecuniarily as it would
have occupied if its property had not been taken. Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 299,
and cases cited. The ascertainment of compensation is a
'See also C. G. Blake Co. v. United States, 275 Fed. 861.

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

judicial function, and no power exists in any other department of the Government to declare what the compensation shall be or to prescribe any binding rule in that
regard. Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States,
148 U. S. 312, 327. Where private property is taken for
public use, and there is a market price prevailing at the
time and place of the taking, that price is just compensation. Vogelstein & Co. v. United States, decided this
day, ante, 337; United States v. Chandler-DunbarWater
Power Co., 229 U. S. 53, 80, 81; Boom Co. v. Patterson,
98 U. S. 403, 407. More would be unjust to the United
States and less would deny the owner what he is entitled to.
The United States admits that market value is usually
the basis for ascertaining the pecuniary equivalent, but
suggests that sometimes an article has no market price
and that in such case "proof of real value" is admissible
and that therefore market value and just compensation
are not necessarily synonymous. The court below excluded evidence offered by the United States to show the
owner's cost of production and a reasonable profit. This
ruling was right, because it was shown beyond controversy
that there were market prices prevailing when and where
the coal was taken. The United States had the right to
take the coal on payment of these prices; the owner was
not entitled to more and could not be required to take
less. The owner's cost, profit or loss did not tend to
prove market price or value at the time of taking, and
was therefore immaterial.
The United States offered evidence of prices specified
for domestic coal in contracts for future deliveries (current at the time of the taking), as distinguished from
prices for spot coal, i. e., coal for immediate delivery.
These contract prices were rightly excluded. They could
be given no weight as against current market prices, and
would have no tendency to prove what such market prices
were.

U. S. v. NEW RIVER COLLIERIES.
341

345

Opinion of the Court.

The facts bring this case within the rule stated by the
Circuit Court of Appeals (276 Fed. 690, at p. 692):
"If it be an article commonly traded in on a market
and it is shown that at the time and place it was taken
there was a market in which like articles in volume were
openly bought and sold, the prices current in such a
market will be regarded as its fair market value and likewise the measure of just compensation for its requisition."
The lower courts rightly held that market prices prevailing at the times and place of the taking constitute just
compensation.
Nor was it error to exclude evidence of the market
prices of coal for domestic use, and to hold that market
prices for export coal controlled. The owner cannot be
required to suffer pecuniary loss. Upon an examination
of the record we agree with the statement of the Circuit
Court of Appeals (276 Fed. 690, 691) that if the coal had
not been taken by the United States, it could have been
sold at the market price for export coal prevailing for spot
deliveries at the time of the taking.
The owner was entitled to what it lost by the taking.
That loss is measured by the money equivalent of the coal
requisitioned. It is shown by the evidence that every
day representatives of foreign firms were purchasing, or
trying to purchase, export coal. Transactions were numerous and large quantities were sold. Export prices for
spot coal were controlled by the supply and demand.
These facts indicate a free market. The owner had a
right to sell in that market, and it is clear that it could
have obtained the prices there prevailing for export coal.
It was entitled to these prices.2
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
affirmed.
'Cf. Boston Chamber of Commerce v. Boston, 217 U. S. 189, 195;
Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 326;
Five Tracts of Land v. United States, 101 Fed. 661, 665; New York
v. Sage, 239 U. S. 57, 61.

