LION BONDING CO. v. KARATZ.
Syllabus.

70

was no protest by the contractor against assuming the
additional service; and there was no duress. The service
was undertaken voluntarily; no doubt, in the expectation
that Congress would provide additional compensation.
It made some provision; but concluded not to make any
for the first six months. We may not enquire into the
reasons for this refusal, or undertake to revise its judgment. The obstacle to recovery is not strictly lack of
jurisdiction in the Court of Claims. There was an express contract between the parties; there was also legislation; and on these the claim is founded. The obstacle
to recovery is lack of legal merits. The Government did
not in fact promise to pay for the extra service; nor did
the legislation give to claimant a right to compensation.
In other words, the petition fails to set out a cause of
action.

Affirmed.

LION BONDING & SURETY COMPANY v.
KARATZ.
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE & COMMERCE OF
THE STATE OF NEBRASKA ET AL. v. HERTZ
ET AL., AS RECEIVERS OF LION BONDING &
SURETY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 574, 467.

Argued March 2, 1923.-Decided April 23, 1923.

1. Insolvency of a corporation is not an equitable ground for appointing a receiver at the suit of a simple contract creditor. P.
85. Pusey & Jones Co. v. Hanssen, 261 U. S. 491.
2. In a suit by a creditor alleged to be on behalf also of others
similarly situated, seeking to collect a debt from an insolvent corporation through a receivership and by having the debt declared
a lien on its assets, the amount in controversy, determining the
jurisdiction of the District Court, does not depend on the corpo-

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

ration's assets or liabilities, but is the amount of the plaintiff's
claim as shown by the bill. P. 85.
3. Where the bill discloses that the amount in controversy is less
than the jurisdictional amount, a general allegation to the contrary is of no avail. Id.
4. A suit in the District Court which is dependent on a receivership
in the District Court of another district fails with the dismissal of
the bill in that case. P. 87.
5. The provision of Jud. Code, § 56, extending the operation of a
receivership to other districts in the same judicial circuit, applies
where there is fixed property extending, as a unit, into different
States, like railroads or pipe lines; but not where the assets are
those of an insurance company, described as cash, mortgages,
securities, bills receivable, real estate, stocks and bonds. P. 87.
6. The general rule is that a receiver cannot sue in a foreign jurisdiction, and this is not overcome by an order of the court appointing him purporting to embrace in the receivership all property of
the defendant wherever situate and authorizing the receiver to
apply to other courts in aid of the order. P. 87.
7. Where a state court of competent jurisdiction has, by appropriate
proceedings, taken property into its possession through its officers,
the property is thereby withdrawn from the jurisdiction of all
other courts. P. 88.
8. Where a state court of Nebraska, under Comp. Stats. Neb. 1922,
§§ 7745-7748, first took possession of records and assets of a local
insurance company, through the State Department of Trade and
Commerce, for the purpose of conducting the business temporarily,
and later, by a supplemental decree made on a supplementary
application, ordered the Department to liquidate it, held that receivers appointed by a federal court in the interim were not entitled
to possession of the res, and that their suit in a federal court against
the company and the Department for' the purpose of acquiring
possession could not be maintained, and that the legality of the
state court's action in continuing its control could not be thus
questioned or attacked collaterally. P. 89.
281 Fed. 1021; 280 Fed. 540, reversed.
CERTIORARI

to two decrees of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals, the first, affirming a decree of the District Court for
Minnesota appointing general receivers for a Nebraska
insurance company; the second, reversing a decree of the
District Court for Nebraska which dismissed a bill

LION BONDING CO. v. KARATZ.
77

79

Opinion of the Court.

brought by the receivers for the possession of the company's property.
Mr. Halleck F. Rose, with whom Mr. 0. S. Spillman,
Attorney General of the State of Nebraska, Mr. John F.
Stout, Mr. Arthur R. Wells, Mr. Paul L. Martin'and Mr.
Amos Thomas were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Bruce W. Sanborn, with whom Mr. William G.
Graves, Mr. Samuel G. Ordway and Mr. William R.
Kueffner were on the briefs, for respondents.
Mr. Francis R. Stoddard, Jr., Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York, and Mr. Clarence C.
Fowler,by leave of court, filed a brief as amici curia.
MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS. delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These two cases arise out of the insolvency of the Lion
Bonding and Surety Company, a Nebraska insurance
corporation. They are here on writs of certiorari to the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit. In the Karatz case, it affirmed a decree of the
federal court for Minnesota which appointed receivers in
a suit brought by an unsecured simple contract creditor.
See 280 Fed. 532. In the Hertz case, it reversed a decree
of the federal court for Nebraska, which dismissed a suit
brought by those receivers for possession of the company's property, 280 Fed. 540. At the date of each decree
the property of the company in Nebraska was held by the
Department of Trade and Commerce of that State, with
the usual powers of a receiver, under a decree of a'state
court. The Circuit Court of Appeals directed, in the Hertz
case, that the lower court enjoin the Department from doing any act in relation to the property, except to hold custody thereof subject to the further order of the federal
court for Minnesota. Petitioners ask that the judgments
of the appellate court be reversed and that the bills in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

federal district courts be dismissed. The grounds on
which jurisdiction was asserted. by the federal courts
makes necessary a fuller statement of the facts.
The Lion Bonding & Surety Company had for some
years prior to 1921 been licensed to conduct the business
of insurance in Nebraska; and was doing business and had
property also in eighteen other States. A statute of Nebraska commits to its Department of Trade and Commerce the supervision of insurance companies and control
thereof in case of insolvency and otherwise. (Compiled
Statutes, Nebraska, 1922, §§ 7745-7748.) Nebraska
Laws, 1919, c. 190, Title 5, Article III, p. 576-581. Paragraph 1 of § 4 of-that act provides:
"Whenever any domestic company is insolvent
or is found, after an examination, to be in such condition
that its further transaction of business would be hazardous to its policy holders, or to its creditors, or to its stock.
.
the department
.
holders, or to the public;
. . . may apply to the district court . . . in the
county . . . in which the principal office of such

company is located, for an order directing such company
to show cause why the department

.

.

. should not

take possession of its property, records and effects and
conduct or close its business, and for such other relief as
the nature of the case and the interest of its policy holders, creditors, stockholders or the public may require."
On April 12, 1921, the Department applied to the District Court of Douglas County, Nebraska, for an order
directing it to take possession of the property and to
conduct the business of the company, under paragraph 2
of § 4, which provides:
"On such application, or at any time thereafter, such
court or judge may, in his discretion, issue an order restraining such company from the transaction of its business, or disposition of its property, records, and effects
until the further order of the court. On the return of
such order to show cause, and after a full hearing, the

LION BONDING CO. v. KARATZ.
77

Opinion of the Court.

court shall either deny the application or direct the department
. .
forthwith to take possession of the
property, records and effects, and conduct the business
of such company, and retain such possession
until on application of the department . . . or Of
such company, it shall, after a like hearing, appear to the
court that the cause of such order directing the department
. * . to take possession has been removed, and
that the company can properly resume possession of its
property, records and effects, and the conduct of the
business."
The petition prayed also for an order restraining the
company from the transaction of its business or from
disposing of any of its property; and for other and further relief. The companj immediately filed an answer,
by which it admitted the material allegations of the petition, and joined in the prayer thereof. On the same day
the state court entered a decree in accordance with the
prayer; the Department entered upon the duties prescribed by the decree; it immediately took possession of
all the property of the company in Nebraska; has since
held possession thereof subject to the orders of the state
court; and has also obtained like possession of property
of the company in other States. On May 28, 1921, the
Department filed, in that court, a supplemental petition,
in which it prayed for an order directing it to liquidate
the business under. paragraph 3 of § 4, which provides:
" If, on a like application and order to show cause, and
after a full hearing, the court shall order the liquidation
of the business of such company, such liquidation shall
be made by and under the direction of the department
, which may deal with the property, records,
effects and business of such company in the name of the
department .
.
or in the name of the company, as
the court may direct and it shall be vested by operation
of law with title to all the property, effects, contracts and
51826°-23--6

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

rights of action of such company as of the date of the
order so directing it to liquidate.
.The supplemental petition prayed, among other things,
that the orders theretofore made, so far as applicable, and
necessary to further the liquidation, remain in full force.
The company filed an answer by which it admitted the
material allegations contained in the supplemental petition and joined in the prayer thereof. On the same day
that court entered an order in accordance with the prayer
of the supplemental petition, all action of the Department being made subject to the direction of the court.
On May 2, 1921, while the decree of the Nebraska
court entered April 12, 1921, was in full force and the
Department was in actual possession thereunder of the
property in that State, Karatz, a citizen of Minnesota,
purporting to sue also on behalf of others similarly situated, filed a bill in equity against the company in the
federal court for the District of Minnesota, Fourth Division. No disclosure was made of the proceedings taken
against the company in the state court of Nebraska, nor
that under its decree the Department was in possession
of all the company property in that State, and, at least,
of some of its property elsewhere. The bill alleged that
the company had been admitted to do business in Minnesota; that through its operation there plaintiff had become an unsecured simple contract creditor to the amount
of $2,100; that the company had ceased to do business
and was insolvent; that it had assets within that district
valued at $20,000; and that there was danger that the
property of the company would be wasted. The bill
prayed that the amount due plaintiff be ascertained and
declared a first lien upon all the assets of the company
in Minnesota; that, for the purpose of protecting the
general public, creditors and stockholders, receivers be
appointed to collect all its assets, wherever situated, and
to realize upon and distribute the same; that the company be directed to deliver possession to them of all the

LION BONDING CO.. v. KARATZ.
77

Opinion of the Court.

property wherever situated; that the company and its
officers be restrained from interfering in any way with
such receivers; and for general relief. On the filing of this
bill the federal court, acting ex parte, appointed Hertz
and Levin receivers of all the property of the company
wheresoever situated; and authorized them to apply to
any other District Court of the United States in aid of
the order so entered. The company (which was served
on May 5 by process upon the Insurance Commissioner
of Minnesota) moved, on May 14, 1921, to dismiss the
Karatz bill for want of federal jurisdicti6n and for want
of equity. A motion was also made to discharge the receivers and to restore the property to the company or to
the Department of Trade and Commerce. Both motions,
were denied on May 30, 1921.
The Minnesota receivers secured the appointment of
themselves as ancillary receivers by the federal courts for
twelve other districts, but not for the Nebraska district.
On May 11 and May 12, 1921, they filed, in purported
compliance with § 56 of the Judicial Code, certified copies
of the bill and of the order of appointment with the
clerks of the federal district courts for Nebraska and
other States in the Eighth Circuit. On May 14, 1921, the
company moved the Circuit Court of Appeals under that
section for an order of disapproval of the appointment
of receivers, so far as it may be operative outside the
District of Minnesota. This motion was denied on May
31, 1921.1
On September 6, 1921, the Minnesota receivers filed
in the federal court for the District of Nebraska, Omaha
'There was this qualification: "That the right of said receivers
to the possession of such of the property of said company as is
situated in the District of Nebraska shall be subject to such right
of possession thereof in the Department of Trade and Commerce
of Nebraska as had accrued to it, under proceedings in the District
Court of Douglas County in that state, when the right of the
receivers arose under the laws of the United States."

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

Division, a bill in equity (called the Hertz suit) against
the company, the Department of Trade and Commerce
and others. It charged that there was a conflict of authority between the federal court for Minnesota and
the Nebraska state court concerning the administration
of the company's property; that the Department threatened to liquidate the company under the order of the
state court entered May 28, 1921; that its rights were
limited to the temporary possession and listing of the
property authorized by the order of April 12, 1921; and
that it had no ronger any right to the possession or control of the property either for the administration of the
affairs of the company under direction of the state court
or otherwise. The bill prayed that defendants be restrained from interfering with the Minnesota receiver's
possession and control; that they be directed to surrender possession to plaintiffs; and for other relief. A
motion of defendants to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction and for want of equity was granted; and the receivers appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Meanwhile the Karatz case had proceeded to final
hearing. On August 11, 1921, a decree was entered adjudicating Karatz's claim for $2,100; making permanent
the appointment of the receivers and continuing their
powers to administer the property of the company; and
perpetually enjoining it from interfering with the receiver's control. The company appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals. That court then heard together appeals in the two cases. On April 28, 1922, it rendered
the opinions, 280 Fed. 532, 540, by which, in the Minne-2
sota case, it affirmed the order appointing receivers;
The decree in the Karatz case directly under review here is that
entered by the Circuit Court of Appeals on July 7, 1922, pursuant
to its per curiam opinion of June 30, 1922, in which it affirmed the
final decree of the District Court entered August 11, 1921, for reasons
stated in the opinion in that cause, of April 28, 1922, affirming the
"int-erlocutory order appointing a receiver."

LION BONDING CO. v. KARATZ.
77

Opinion of the Court.

and in the Nebraska case, reversed the decree dismissing
the bill. The decree in the latter was later enlarged by
directing the district court to reinstate the bill, and to
restrain the Department; the company and their employees: "from removing, secreting or disposing
of the
moneys, books, papers, records, assets, property, accounts
or choses in action, of or derived from the Lion Bonding
and Surety Company, and from doing any other act in
relation thereto, except to hold the custody thereof subject to the further order of the United- States District
Court for the District of Minnesota, Fourth Division.",8
The decrees of the Circuii Court of Appeals in both
cases must be reversed.
First. In the Karatz case the motion to dismiss the bill
should have been granted.* There was want of equity;
for it was brought by an unsecured simple contract
creditor. Pusey & Jones Co. v. Hanssen, 261 U. S.491.
But there was also the fundamental objection that the
district court was without jurisdiction as a federal court.
The only ground of jurisdiction alleged is diversity of
citizenship. The facts specifically stated show that the
amount in controversy was less than $3,000. Plaintiff's
claim against the company was $2,100. He prayed that
this debt be declared a first lien on the assets within the
State. His only interest was to have that debt paid.
The amount of the corporation's assets, either within or
without the State, is of no legal significance in this connection. Nor is the amount of its debts to others. The
case is not of that class where the amount in controversy
'In accordance with this decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
the federal District Court for Nebraska entered a decree for an injunction. From the decree of the District Court the Department.
appealed directly to this Court on the ground that the District
Court was without jurisdiction as a federal court. The appeal was
dismissed on October 16, 1922, for lack of jurisdiction in this Court.
260 U. S. 696.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

is measured by the value of the property involved in the
litigation. Hunt v. New York Cotton Exchange, 205
U. S. 322, 335; Western & Atlantic R. R. Co. v. Railroad
Commission of Georgia, 261 U. S. 264. Nor is it like
those cases in which several plaintiffs, having a common
undivided interest, unite to enforce a single title or right,
and in which it is enough that their interests collectively
equal the jurisdictional amount. Troy Bank v. G. A.
Whitehead & Co., 222 U. S. 39, 41. In the case at bar,
if several creditors of the company, each with a debt less
than $3,000, had joined as plaintiffs, the demands could
not have been aggregated fn order to confer jurisdiction.
Rogers v. Hennepin County, 239 U. S. 621; Scott v.
Frazier,253 U. S. 243. Nor can Karatz's allegation that
he sued on behalf of others similarly situated help him.
Compare Title Guaranty Co. v. Allen, 240 U. S. 136;
Eberhardv. Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co., 241 Fed.
353, 356.' Since the bill in this case discloses that the
amount in controversy was less than the jurisdictional
amount, the general allegation that it exceeds this
amount is, therefore, of no avail. Vance v. W. A. Vandercook Co. (No. 2), 170 U. S. 468.
As the bill should have been dismissed on motion, there
is no occasion to consider whether the provisions of
the Nebraska statute and the proceedings taken thereunder in the courts of that State, which the defendan'it
set up, constituted a bar to the Karatz suit.'
"Where a creditor's bill has been entertained by this Court, the
amount of a single plaintiff's claim has been large enough to satisfy
the jurisdictional requirement. Compare Hatch v. Dana, 101 U. S.
205; Johnson v. Waters, 111 U. S. 640; Handley v. Stutz, 137
U. S. 366.
'Compare O'Neil v. Welch, 245 Fed. 261, 267, 268; Ward v.
Foulkrod, 264 Fed. 627, 634. See also Relfe v. Rundle, 103 U. S.
222; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516; Converse v. Hamilton,
224 U. S. 243.

LION BONDING CO. v. KARATZ.
77

Opinion of the Court.

Second. In the Hertz case, also, the motion to dismiss
the bill should have been granted. Being dependent
upon the decree in the Karatz suit appointing the receivers, the Hertz suit must necessarily fall with the dismisspl of that bill. But there are other insuperable
obstacles to the maintenance of the Hertz suit.
Hertz and Levin were not anpointed ancillary receivers
for Nebraska. They sue in the Nebraska district as Minnesota receivers, relying upon § 56 of the Judicial Code.
That section, by its terms, applies only, where in a suit
"in which a receiver shall be appointed the land or other
property of a fixed character, the subject of the suit,
lies within different States in the same judicial circuit."
It relates to those cases where the fixed property is a
unit, extending into severM States, like interstate railroads and pipe lines.' See Public Utilities Commission v.
Landon, 249 U. S. 236, 243. It cannot be assumed that
the assets of an insurance company are of that character.
Those of this company, within the Minnesota district, specifically described in the Karatz bill were alleged to consist
of money and credits. The description of the property
in Nebraska, given in the Hertz bill, is "cash, mortgages
and other securities, bills receivable, real estate, stocks
and bonds." The provisions of § 56 extending the operation of a receivership to other districts of the same judicial
circuit were, therefore, inapplicable to this case. The
motion made, under that section, for disapproval of the
order, so far as it may be operative outside the District
of Minnesota, should have been granted. As Minnesota
receivers merely, Hertz and Levin had no rights whatever
in Nebraska. The general rule that a receiver cannot
The scope and effect of this section was stated by Mr. Moon (who
introduced it) to be this: "It applies to a case where a receiver
is to be appointed by a district judge covering property that runs
across an entire circuit." Cong. Rec., 61st Cong., 3rd seas., pp.
566, 3998.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

sue in a foreign jurisdiction applied. Great Western Mining Co. v. Harris, 198 U. S. 561. The express authorization (contained in the order of appointment) to apply for
aid to other courts could not aid them in this respect.
Sterrett v. Second National Bank, 248 U. S. 73.
Moreover, even if the federal court for Minnesota
would have had jurisdiction to appoint the receivers, and
these receivers had secured ancillary appointment in the
Nebraska district, the Hertz bill should still have been
dismissed; because the property was then in the possession of the state court. What the federal court undertook to do was not to adjudicate rights in personam (as
the state court did in Kline v. Burke Construction Co.,
260 U. S. 226), but to take the res out of the possession
and control of the state court, and to enjoin all action
on its part, except as directed by the federal court for
Minnesota. It sought to do this, although the state court
alone had jurisdiction of the parties and of the subjectmatter, at the time when the proceeding before it was
begun; at the time its decree directing the Department
to take possession was entered; and at the time possession was taken thereunder. Moreover, the proceeding in
the state court was confessedly an appropriate one; the
possession taken was actual; and it has been continuous.
All this occurred before any suit was begun in any federal court. The federal court did not seek to gain possession and control of the Nebraska property until three
months after entry of the decree of the state court directing the Department (which had possession of the res)
to proceed with the liquidation. The case is, thus, free of
those features which sometimes create difficulty in determining conflicts between courts of concurrent jurisdiction.
Where a court of competent jurisdiction has, by appropriate proceedings, taken property into its possession
through its officers, the property is thereby withdrawn

LION BONDING CO. v. KARATZ.
77

89

Opinion of the Court.

from the jurisdiction of all other courts. Wabash R. R.
Co. v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 38, 54. Compare Oklahoma v. Texas, 258 U. S. 574, 581. Possession of the
res disables other courts of co~rdinate jurisdiction from
exercising any power over it. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co.
v. Lake Street Elevated R. R. Co., 177 U. S. 51, 61. The
court which first acquired jurisdiction through possession
of the property is vested, while it holds possession, with
the power to hear and determine all controversies relating
thereto. It has the right, while continuing to exercise its
prior jurisdiction, to determine for itself how far it will
permit any other court to interfere with such possession
and jurisdiction. Palmerv. Texas, 212 U. S. 118, 126, 129.
The assertion of control by the federal courts over
property in the possession" of the state court, is sought
to be justified on the following ground: The possession
taken by the Department under the state court's decree
of April 12, 1921, was only for a temporary purpose;
namely, to conduct the business until the company could
properly resume the conduct thereof. True, the supplemental decree entered by the state court on May 28,
1921, directed the Department to liquidate the business
as provided in the statute. But, meanwhile, on May 2,
1921, suit had been brought by Karatz in the federal
court for Minnesota; and it had obtained jurisdiction
over the company's assets by its appointment ex parte
of receivers. So, the court says, 280 Fed. 542, "its right
to the possession by its receivers is superior to that of
the state court. It follows that the receivers appointed
by it are entitled to the possession of the company's
records and assets as against the Department of Trade
and Commerce."
This contention is opposed to the settled principles
which govern the relations of courts of concurrent jurisdiction. It is inconsistent, also, with § 265 of the Judicial
Code, which prohibits courts of the United States from

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

staying proceedings in courts of a State. Essanay Film
Manufacturing Co. v. Kane, 258 U. S. 358. The Nebraska court was confessedly a court of competent jurisdiction. While it was in possession of the res, it entered
a supplemental decree directing the Department to liquidate the company. The statute of the State expressly
provides for such liquidation. The original petition of
April 12, 1921, clearly contemplated it and contained a
prayer for general relief. The claim is that the application for liquidation is a new and independent proceeding; and that jurisdiction over the res had terminated
before entry of the supplemental decree, although the
courts' possession of the res continued. The claim is
groundless. But if the legality of the state court's action
was to be questioned, it could be done only by laying
the proper foundation through appropriate proceedings
in that court. Covell v. Heyman, 111 U. S. 176, 179;
Byers v. McAuley, 149 U. S. 608, 614. Compare Laing v.
Rigney, 160 U. S. 531; Metcalf v. Barker, 187 U. S. 165;
Pickens v. Roy, 187 U. S. 177; Murphy v. John Ho!man
Co., 211 U. S. 562, 569. If such action had been taken
and relief had been denied there, resort could then have
been had to appellate proceedings. Wiswall v. Sampson,
14 How. 52. But the judgment of the state court, which
had possession of the res, could not be set aside by a collateral attack in the federal courts. Mutual Reserve Fund
Life Association v. Phelps, 190 U. S. 147, 159, 160. Nor
could it be ignored. Shields v. Coleman, 157 U. S. 168.
Lower federal courts are not superior to state courts.
Reversed.

