UNITED STATES v. SISCHO.

165

Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. SISCHO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 76. Reargued April 23, 1923.-Decided May 7, 1923.
1. The purpose of requiring a ship's manifest is not merely the
collection of duties but also to inform the Government whether
forbidden things are being imported. P. 167.
2. Rev. Stats. § 2766, providing that "the word 'merchandise,' as
used in this Title, may include goods, wares, and chattels of every
description capable of being imported," does not mean such
only as are capable of being legally imported, or make that restriction upon the term as used in prior statutes. P. 168.
3. The Act of January 17, 1914, which forbids the importation
of smoking opium, and provides that wherever there shall be
found on an incoming vessel opium, or its preparations or
derivatives, not shown upon her manifest as provided by Rev.
Stats. §§ 2806 and 2807, the vessel shall be liable to the penalty
and forfeiture prescribed by § 2809, intends that smoking opium
must be included in the manifest, and shows that, from the date
of the act at least, the definition of merchandise in Rev. Stats.
§ 2766, supra, must be taken as including forbidden opium. Id.
4. Rev. Stats., § 2809, providing that if any merchandise shall be
brought into the United States in any vessel from a foreign
port, which is not included or described in the manifest, the
master shall be liable to a penalty equal to the value of such
merchandise, applies, to smoking opium, the importation of
which has been forbidden. Id.
5. The foreign value of such opium was properly taken for the
purpose of measuring the penalty in this case. P. 169.
270 Fed. 958, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit

Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of the District Court
for the appellee in an action by the United States to
recover a penalty.'
case was first argued on October 10, 11, 1922, and, on
October 16, 1922, the judgment was affirmed with costs by an
equally divided court. 260 U. S. 697. On November 13, 1922,
a petition for rehearing was granted and the cause restored to the
docket for hearing before a full bench. 260 U. S. 701.
I The

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck
was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. John M. Woolsey, with whom Mr. Cletus Keating
and Mr. Harry D. Thirkield were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought by the United States to recover
a penalty of $6,400 from the defendant for bringing into
this country one hundred five-tael tins of opium prepared
for smoking purposes without including the same in the
ship's manifest. The defendant was master of the vessel in which the opium was imported and was charged
by the Collector of Customs with a liability for the above
sum, that being the price paid by the defendant for the
goods. By Rev. Stats. § 2809, "If any merchandise is
brought into the United States in any vessel whatever
from any foreign port . . . which shall not be included or described in the manifest . . . the master

shall be liable to a penalty equal to the value of such
merchandise not included in such manifest; and all such
merchandise not included in the manifest belonging or
consigned to the master, mate, officers, or crew of such
vessel, shall be forfeited." The District Court, sitting
without a jury, held that opium prepared for smoking
purposes was not merchandise within the meaning of
§ 2809, and that being outlawed by the statutes it had
no value; and gave judgment for the defendant. 262
Fed. 1001. The judgment was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, one Judge dissenting, on the former
ground. 270 Fed. 958. A writ of certiorari was granted
by this Court. 256 U. S. 688. It was stated below that
the defendant had been convicted of smuggling; but the

UNITED STATES v. SISCHO.
165

Opinion of the Court.

record does not disclose the fact, if material, and nothing
turns upon it. The points mentioned are the only ones
to be discussed.
The collection of duties is not the only purpose of a
manifest, as is shown by the requirement of one for outward bound cargoes and from vessels in the coasting trade
bound for a port in another collection district, Rev. Stats.
§§ 4197, 3116, and more clearly by the plain reason of
the thing. A Government wants to know, without being
put to a search, what articles are brought into the country,
and to make up its own mind not only what duties it
will demand but whether it will allow the goods to enter
at all. It would seem strange if it should except from the
manifest demanded those things about which it has the
greatest need to be informed-if in that one case it should
take the chance of being able to find what it forbids to
come in, without requiring the master to tell what he
knows. It would seem doubly strange when at the same
time it required any other person who had knowledge that
the forbidden article was on the vessel to report the fact
to the master. Act of January 17, 1914, c. 9, § 4, 38 Stat.
275, 276. It is not an answer to say that if the master
knows that he has contraband goods on board he is subject to a penalty for that and probably will lie. The law
naturally, one would think, would put the screws on to
make him tell the truth, and in that way diminish the
chance of his carrying contraband and help him to show
his innocence if he has made a mistake. Harford v.
United States, 8 Cranch, 109. We are of opinion that
this policy, which has been expressed in terms in later
statutes, (Act of May 26, 1922, c. 202, § 3, 42 Stat. 596,
598; Tariff Act of September 21, 1922, c. 356, §§ 401(c),
431, 584, 42 Stat. 858, 948, 950, 980;) governs also in the
statutes to be construed here. There is less contradiction between the requirement of the manifest and the
prohibition of the import than there is between such a

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

prohibition and a tax.

262 U. S.

United States v. Stafofi, 260 U. S.

477.

The main foundation of the decision below is Rev.
Stats. § 2766: "The word 'merchandise,' as used in
this Title [the Title including § 2809 upon which
this suit is based,] may include goods, wares, and chattels of every description capable of being imported."
It is argued that this is a definition; that "capable of
being imported" must be taken to mean capable of being imported lawfully as otherwise the phrase hardly
would do more than exclude chattels real, and would
want the poignant significance attributed to every word
of legislation; and that therefore the merchandise to be
included in the manifest does not embrace opium for
smoking which the law has done all it can to exclude.
Act of January 17, 1914, c. 9, 38 Stat. 275. Yet this very
Act of 1914 provides that whenever there shall be found
upon a vessel arriving at any port of the United States
opium "or any preparations or derivatives thereof"
"which is not shown upon the vessel's manifest, as is
provided by sections twenty-eight hundred and six and
twenty-eight hundred and seven of the Revised Statutes,
such vessel shall be liable for the penalty and forfeiture
prescribed in section twenty-eight hundred and nine of
the Revised Statutes." We see no adequate reason, for
not taking these words in their natural sense as including
smoking opium and as meaning that it must be included
in the manifest, or for limiting them to forfeiture of the
vessel. We rather should read them as showing that, at
least for the future and at least so far as derivatives from
opium are concerned, the language quoted from Rev.
Stats. § 2766, was also to be taken in its natural sense
as meaning physically capable of being imported.
The language under consideration was an insertion in
the Revised Statutes. That volume was primarily a
codification of the general statutes then in force and is

UNITED STATES v. SISCHO.
165

Opinion of the Court.

not lightly to be read as making a change, although of
course it may do so. The words on their face indicate
rather an extension than a restriction. "May include"
seems to point to the removal of a doubt as to whether
previously "merchandise" might include all that is mentioned. It is a most unnatural way of saying that henceforth it shall not include something that otherwise might
have been included. To give it the latter meaning we
have again to read "capable of being imported" in an
artificial sense instead of taking the phrase simply for
what it says to a plain mind. The only objection to reading it in the natural way is that it is thought to add
nothing to what was contained in " goods, wares, and chattels of every description." But there is no canon against
making explicit what is implied and adding a little emphasis to the endeavors to make the proposition broad.
The doubts that have been felt show that the endeavor
was not very successful, but we believe that it was made.
There can be little doubt that before the insertion of
§ 2766 goods that could not be imported lawfully were merchandise within the meaning of the statutes. It was held
in Harford v. United States, 8 Cranch, 109, that the unlading of such goods without a permit was an offence subjecting them to forfeiture, upon reasoning that applies
to the requirement that they should be entered on the
manifest, with equal force.
What we have said sufficiently disposes of the suggestion that the requirement was repealed by the opium act
that we have cited. That is merely saying in another way
that a manifest is not necessary for goods forbidden to
enter the country. All that remains is the suggestion that
smoking opium has no value. But assuming it to be established that the statutes require the manifest to disclose prohibited articles the penalty imposed implies that
such articles may have value and does not require the
Courts to set up a technical rule in face of the plain truth.

OCTOBER TERM. 1922.
Counsel for Parties.

262 U. S.

So the provision that smoking opium shall be forfeited
implies that however evil it may be it has an owner. Act
of January 17, 1914, c. 9, § 4, 38 Stat. 275. Act of May
26, 1922, c. 202, § 3, 42 Stat. 596, 598. In the circumstances we see no objection to taking the foreign value
as evidence, in accordance with the rulings of the Treasury Department. Treas. Dec. No. 32083, December, 1911.
21 T. D. 687.
Judgment reversed.

BIANCHI ET AL. v. MORALES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.

No. 934. Motion to affirm or advance, and to vacate stay, submitted
April 16, 1923.-Decided May 7, 1923.
1. The court may affirm a decree dismissing a suit, without putting
the parties to the expense of printing the full record, when the
facts stated and admitted in the motion papers make it plain
that the suit cannot be maintained. P. 171.
2. The law of Porto Rico providing for summary foreclosure of
mortgages without allowing other defenses than payment, but
leaving the mortgagor plenary opportunity to assert other objections

by separate suit, clearly does not deprive him of property without
due process of law. Id.
Affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court of the

United States for Porto Rico, dismissing, for want of
jurisdiction, a bill to restrain summary foreclosure proceedings.
Mr. Phelan Beale and Mr. George TV. Study for appellants.
Mr. Carroll G. Walter for appellees.

