OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

for purposes of taxation we will hold interstate commerce
ends when an original package reaches the consignee and

comes to rest within a State, although intended for sale
there in unbroken form. It may be said that the effect
on interstate commerce is not substantial and too remote,
notwithstanding the rather clear logic of Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, to the contrary and the much discussed theory respecting freedom of interstate commerce
from interference by the States, announced and developed long after Woodruff v. Parham (1868), 8 Wall. 123.
Logic and taxation are not always the best of friends.
CHAS. WOLFF PACKING COMPANY v. COURT OF
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS OF THE STATE OF
KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 739. Argued April 27, 1923.-Decided June 11, 1923.
1. Legislative authority to abridge freedom of contract can be justified only by exceptional circumstances, and the restraint must not
be arbitrary or unreasonable. P. 533.
2. Businesses said to be clothed with a public interest justifying some
public regulation, may be divided into three classes:
(a) Those which are carried on under authority of a public grant of
privileges expressly or impliedly imposing the affirmative duty of
rendering public seryice demanded by any member of the public,e. g., the business of a common carrier, or a public utility.
(b) Certain occupations, regarded as exceptional, the public interest
attaching. to which, recognized from earliest times, has survived
the period of arbitrary regulation of all trades and callings by Parliament or Colonial legislatures,-e. g., inns, cabs, and grist mills.
(c) Other businesses which have come to have such a peculiar relation to the public that government regulation has been superim-.
posed 'upon them,--where the owner, by devoting his business to
the public use, in effect grants the public an interest in that use,
and subjects himself to regulation to the extent of such interest.
P. 535.

WOLFF CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COURT.
522

523

Syllabus.

3. A declaration by a legislature that a business has become affected
by a public interest is not conclusive of the question whether attempted regulation on that ground is justified. P. 536.
4. In the present day one does not devote one's property or business
to public use, or clothe it with a public interest, merely by making
commodities for, and selling them to, the public, in the common
callings. P. 537.
5. The option to deal or abstain from dealing, usually distinguishes
private from quasi-public occupations. P. 537.
6. Whether the public has become so peculiarly dependent on a particular business that the owner, by engaging therein, subjects himself to intimate public regulation, must be determined upon the
facts of each ease. P. 538.
7. The extent to which a business which has become "clothed with a
public interest" may be regulated depends upon the nature of
the business, its relation to the public and the abuses reasonably
to be feared. P. 539.
8. Assuming that the business of manufacturing and preparing food
for human consumption may be put in the third class of quasipublic businesses noted above,-par. 2(c) -the Industrial Relations
Act of Kansas, in seeking, as a measure for protection of public
peace, health and general welfare, to enforce continuity and efficiency of the business by compelling employer and employees to
submit controversies over wages to state arbitration, and in requiring the employer to pay the.wages so fixed (even if confiscatory), and in forbidding the employee to join in strikes against
them,- exceeds the limit of permissible regulation and deprives
the employer of property, and both employer and employee of liberty, without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 540.
9. Public regulation can secure continuity in a business against owner
and employee only when the obligation of continued service is
direct and is assumed when the business is entered upon. Pp.
541, 543.
10. Where the theory and purpose of a statute depend upon compulsion of both employer and employee, its effeot upon the employee
may be considered when its constitutionality is attacked by an
employer. P. 541.
11. The compulsory arbitration attempted under the Kansas statute
in this case was not justifiable on the ground of temporary emer.
gency. P. 542. Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, distinguished.
111 Kans. 501, reversed.

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

This case involves the validity of the Court of Industrial Relations Act of Kansas. Chapter 29, Special Session, Laws of 1920. The act declares the following to be
affected with a public interest: First, manufacture and
preparation of food for human consumption; second,
manufacture of clothing for human wear; third, production of any substance in common use for fuel; fourth,
transportation of the foregoing; fifth, public utilities and
common carriers. The act vests an Industrial Court of
three judges with power upon its own initiative or on
complaint to summon the parties and hear any dispute
over wages or other terms of employment in any such industry, and if it shall find the peace and health of the
public imperiled by such controversy, it is required to
make findings and fix the Wages and other terms for the
future conduct of the industry. After sixty days, either
party may ask for a readjustment and then the order is to
continue in effect for such reasonable time as the court
shall fix, or until changed by agreement of the parties.
The Supreme Court of the State may review such orders
and in case of disobedience to an order that court may be
appealed to for enforcement.
The Charles Wolff Packing Company, the plaintiff in
error, is a corporation of Kansas engaged in slaughtering
hogs and cattle and preparing the meat for sale and shipment. It has $600,000 capital stock and total annual sales
of $7,000,000. More than half its products are sold beyond the State. It has three hundred employees. There
are many other packing houses in Kansas, of greater
capacity. This is considered a small one.
In January, 1921, the president and secretary of the
Meat Cutters Union filed a complaint with the Industrial
Court against the Packing Company respecting the wages
its employees were receiving. The Company appeared
and answered and a hearing was had. The court made
findings, including one of an emergency, and an order as

WOLFF CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COURT.
522

525

Statement of the Case.

to wages, increasing them over the figures to which the
Company had recently reduced them. The Company
refused to comply with the order and the Industrial Court
then instituted mandamus proceedings in the Supreme
Court to compel compliance. That court appointed a commissioner to consider the record, to take additional evidence and report his conclusions. He found that the
Company had lost $100,000 the previous year, and that
there was no sufficient evidence of an emergency or danger to the public from the controversy to justify action
by the Industrial Court. The Supreme Court overruled
his report and held that the evidence showed a sufficient
emergency.
The prescribed schedule of wages and the limitation of
hours and the rate of pay required for overtime resulted
in an increase in wages of more than $400 a week.
It appeared from the evidence that the Company and
plant were under the control of, and in business association with, what were called "The Allied Packers," who
have plants in various cities and compete with the socalled Big Five Packers, the largest in the country, that
the products of the Wolff Packing Company are sold in
active competition with such products made by other concerns throughout the United States. It appeared further
that about the time of this controversy, a strike was
threatened in the packing houses of the Big Five which
the President of the United States used his good offices to
settle. The chief executive of the Wolff Company testified that there had been no difficulty in securing all the
labor it desired at the reduced rates offered. The Industrial Court conceded that the Wolff Company could not
operate on the schedule fixed without a loss, but relied
on the statement by its president that he hoped for more
prosperous times.
The Packing Company brings this case here on the
ground that the validity of the Industrial Court Act was

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

262 U. S.

upheld although challenged as in conflict with the provision of the Fourteenth Amendment that no State shall
deprive any person of liberty or property without due
process of law.
Mr. D. R. Hite and Mr. John S. Dean, with whom Mr.
Harry W. Colmery was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John G. Egan and Mr. Chester I. Long, with whom
Mr. Charles B. Griffith, Attorney General of the State of
Kansas, Mr. Randal C. Harvey and Mr. Austin M. Cowan
were on the briefs, for defendant in error.
The State's power extends to the promotion of public
convenience or general prosperity,-to so dealing with
the conditions which exist in the State'as to bring out of
them the greatest welfare of its people. Bacon v. Walker,
204 U. S. 311.
A decision of the highest court of the State, declaring a
use to be public in its nature, will be accepted by this
Court, unless clearly not well founded. Jones v. Portland,
245 U. S. 217; Green v. Frazier,253 U. S. 233.
It has been held by this Court that a state statute is
valid which permitted 'the condemnation of land for the
construction of an irrigation ditch to supply water for the
uses of one person, Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361; and that
a State may authorize a condemnation of a right of way
for an aerial or bucket line to serve in the operation of a
gold mine. Strickland v. Highland Boy Gold Mining Co.,
200 U. S. 527. See Mount Vernon-Woodberry Cotton
Duck Co. v. Alabama Interstate Power Co., 240 U. S. 32.
The fire insurance business may be regulated as affected
with a public interest. German Alliance Insurance Co. v.
Lewis, 233 U. S. 389; La Tourette v. McMaster, 248 U. S.
465. And so may the banking business. Noble State
Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104. The charges of a public
stockyards company may be regulated. Cotting v. Godard, 183 U. S. 79.

WOLFF CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COURT.
522

527

Argument for Defendant in Error.

In Jones v. Portland, supra, this Court held that the
business of furnishing fuel to the citizens of Portland,
Maine, was a public use, and that it was within the
province of the State to provide by statute for the establishment of municipal fuel yards. In Green v. Frazier,
253 U. S. 233, it was held within the province of the State
to engage in the business of dealing in foodstuffs and providing aid to citizens to build houses.
Phenomenal developments of the past fifty years have
completely changed the customs, practices and manner
of living of the American people. The meat industry
has been completely revolutionized. The business of
killing the live stock and of manufacturing the carcass
into food for human consumption has been highly specialized and centralized and is controlled by a few great corporations employing hundreds of thousands of workmen
operating in the great commercial centers and shipping
their food products all over this country and to foreign
countries. Many millions of our people are wholly dependent upon the continuous and efficient operation of the
packing industry for their daily ration of meat. Millions
of live-stock growers are dependent upon the continuous
and efficient operation of the same industry for a market
for their live stock. All this has impressed with a public
interest the packing industry.
Much space is spent in the printed argument of opposing counsel on the constitutionality of the act so far as
it affects the milling industry and the clothing industry.
Neither of those questions is here for decision. The only
question which this Court will determine is the constitutionality of the act as applied to this plaintiff in error.
The Industrial Court Act is not open to attack in this case
upon grounds which might possibly arise, but which do
not affect the party questioning its constitutionality.
Arizona Employers' Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400.
The packing industry is affected with a public interest.
It has been made the subject of congressional action, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

262 U. S.

evidenced by the Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921.
Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S.495.
The packing industry being affected with a public interest, it is therefore subject to regulation by the State.
Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113. It is argued, however, by
the Packing Company that its plant is comparatively
small and does not stand at the gateway of commerce, as
the warehouses did in the Munn Case. That, howeyer,
is an old contention which has been met by this Court and
overruled. Brass v. North Dakota, 153 U. S. 391.
The power to regulate an industry is not dependent
upon its size.
The history of the packing industry shows that in 1886
and 1904 there were serious strikes, attended by disturbances of the peace, loss of life and shortage in meat production. There have been for years frequent labor
controversies and disturbances in that business.
The order of the Industrial Court was but temporary,
made to meet an emergency, and did not run as long as
did the rates provided in the Adamson Law, (Wilson v.
New, 243 U. S. 332,) which were for a period of six to
eleven months. This Court has frequently held that a
test should be made to ascertain whether or not an order
made fixing rates is confiscatory.
In the compulsory insurance cases the working conditions of strictly private industries were regulated, and the
employer was obliged to add, to the wages paid, the insurance premium paid on each employee necessary to provide compensation for the injured employee-and this
regardless of the question of negligence. Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219; Thornton v. Duffy,
254 U. S. 361. In the workmen's compensation cases,
Arizona Employers' Liability Cases, supra, the State by
law added, to the cost of labor paid by the manufacturer,
compensation for injuries occurring without fault of the
employer, which had theretofore been borne by the em-

WOLFF CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COURT.
522

529

Argument for Defendant in Error.

ployees. Thus the wages paid were in fact increased by
legislative act. What had theretofore been borne by the
workmen out of their wages was passed to the employer,
to be paid by him in addition to the other wages paid. If
the legislature can increase the cost of labor to the manufacturer by making him bear the cost of injuries arising
out of accidents, then why cannot the State under similar
circumstances raise wages of employees slightly in the face
of an emergency?
The Packing Company insists that under the doctrine
of Brooks-Scanlon Co. v. Railroad Commission, 251 U. S.
396, the operation of a public utility cannot be compelled
at a loss. That is correct. The order in this case does not
require appellant to operate. The Packing Company can
cease to operate if it does so in good faith and not for the
purpose of evading the orders of the Industrial Court.
That is recognized in the law itself. It can also reduce the
number of employees which it hires, if it does so in good
faith and not for the purpose of evading an order entered
pursuant to the act.
It has been repeatedly recognized by this Court that
the State has an interest in the working conditions and
hours of labor in mills and manufacturing establishments
and dangerous industries. The packing industry is both
a dangerous industry and a manufacturing establishment.
The power of the Government to prevent strikes dangerous to public peace and welfare has been recognized. In
re Debs, 158 U. S. 564; Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332;
United States v. Railway Employees' Dept., A. F. L., 283
Fed. 479. That States have this power must be conceded.
It must therefore be admitted that a State has the power
to do that which is necessary to make effective its exercise
of authority in this respect. Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy R. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549.
It would be futile to give the Industrial Court authority to settle industrial disputes and not give it the
51826-23--34

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

262 U. S.

power to prescribe a temporary minimum wage. It
would likewise be futile to give to the Industrial Court
the power to prescribe hours of labor and a minimum
wage scale, if the company could make the award ineffective by reducing the number of hours of employment
to a nominal amount each month.
In Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, the majority opinion
recognized that the Adamson Act amounted to compulsory arbitration, which Congress had the authority to
enact.
The Supreme Court of Kansas has determined that an
emergency existed in the present case. That determination must stand unless palpably wrong. In the emergency rent cases it was recognized that the legislative
branch of government had" the power to regulate a business in order to tide over a public emergency. Block v.
Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135; Marcus Brown Holding Co. v.
Feldman, 256 U. S. 170; Levy Leasing Co. v. Siegel, 258
U. S. 242.
The burden was upon the Packing Company to establish that the order of the Industrial Court was confiscatory. The bare presentation of evidence showing deficits in operation is not proof of confiscation.
The order of the Industrial Court, if a proper exercise of
the police power over a business affected with a public
interest, does not become unconstitutional by virtue of
any loss of profits to the Packing Company. On this
phase of the case the Packing Company's contention
amounts to this: if a business is not making a profit the
State is deprived of the power to regulate it in the interest of the public health, the public morals, the public
safety, the public peace, and the public welfare. We do
not understand such to be the effect of the decisions of this
Court. The same contentions have been raised as to every
regulation made under the police power since the enactment of the Fourteenth Amendment. Mugler v. Kansas,

WOLFF CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COURT.
522

531

Argument for Defendant in Error.

123 U. S. 623; CaliforniaReduction Co. v. Sanitary Reduction Works, 199 U. S. 306; Hadacheck v. Los Angeles,
239 U. S. 394.
Financial impossibility does not violate the Fourteenth
Amendment, if the act and order in question are otherwise
a proper exercise of the police power of the State. Hebe
Co. v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297.
The police power "is a continuing one, and a business
lawful today may in the future, because of the changed
situation, the growth of population, or other causes, become a menace to the public health and welfare, and be
required to yield to the public good." Dobbins v. Los
Angeles, 195 U. S. 223; Pierce Oil Corporationv. Hope,
248 U. S.498.
Within the doctrine of Noble State Bank v. Haskell,
219 U. S. 104, the increase was so slight and the advantage
to the public and the Packing Company so great in improving the working conditions and the efficiency of its
employees, that the taking, if any, did not fall within the
Fourteenth Amendment. We insist, however, that in the
proper exercise of the police power, a State is not limited
in its application to such industries or concerns as are
making a profit. The law cannot be made applicable to
those concerns which are making a profit, and inapplicable to those who are losing. Arizona Employers'
Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400; German Alliance Ins. Co.
v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389; Powell v. Pennsylvania,127 U. S.
678; Murphy v. California, 225 U. S. 623; Reinman v.
Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171.
The Packing Company objects to the act because it is
claimed it does not affect employers and their employees
alike. "To complain of a ruling, one must be made a
*
victim of it." Lehon v. Atlanta, 242 U. S. 53.
The classification specified in the Industrial Court Act,
ยง 30, is reasonable and proper.
The question for determination in this case is whether
or -not the legislative action has a reasonable relation to

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

262 U. S.

the governmental authority to further public health,
public morals, public safety, public peace, public convenience and the public general prosperity. If it has, the
doctrine of freedom of contract cannot make the act unconstitutional. Prudential Ins. Co. v. Cheek, 259 U. S.
530; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549.
The employer has no vested right in the conditions
which obtained at the common law and prior to the enactment of the statute. In Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332,
freedom of contract with reference to wages was taken
away from the railroads in an emergency. Freedom of
contract as to wages has also yielded to state action in
those matters held not to be against the governmental
power, but in aid thereof, and as to which the Government could act; such as: Measuring coal before screening,
so as better to fix the miners' wages, McLean v. Arkansas,
211 U. S. 539; Rail & River Coal Co. v. Yaple, 236 U. S.
338; redeeming in cash store-orders issued for wages,
Knoxville Iron Co. v. Harbison, 183 U. S. 13; paying employees in cash at certain rates when they are discharged,
St. Louis, etc. Ry. Co. v. Paul, 173 U. S. 404; Keokee Co.
v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 224, and at all times as often as twice
a month, Erie R. R. Co. v. Williams, 233 U. S. 685, and in
quantity rates as coal is screened, instead of weight before
screening, or weight as ascertained in some other way,
McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539; Schmidinger v. Chicago, 226 U. S. 578; Rail & River Coal Co. v. Yaple, 236
U. S. 338; barring a railway in a personal injury suit from
pleading as a defense the receipt of some fraternal benefit, Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. McGuire,
219 UJ. S. 549, and by adding to the cost of manufacturing
in addition to wages, compensation to the employees for
injuries occurring in the course of employment, without
regard to the question of negligence, Arizona Employers'
Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400; Mountain Timber Co. v.

WOLFF CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COURT.
522

533

Opinion of the Court.

Washington, 243 U. S. 219; Thornton v. Duffy, 254
U. S. 361.
Freedom of contract as to hours and conditions of labor
has had to yield to the governmental power where the
police power has prescribed: Eight-hour day as basic day,
with overtime thereafter, Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332;
ten-hour day in mills, factories and manufacturing establishments, and time and a half for overtime, Bunting v.
Oregon, 243 U. S. 426; sixteen hours continuous service on
railroads, Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 221 U. S. 612; Missouri, Kansas & Texas
Ry. Co. v. United States, 231 U. S. 112; eight hours per day
in mines and smelters, Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366;
maximum hours for labor for women, Muller v. Oregon,
208 U. S. 412; Bosley v. McLaughlin, 236 U. S. 385; Miller
v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373; Riley v. Massachusetts, 232 U. S.
671; eight-hour day on public work, Atkin v. Kansas,
191 U. S. 207; liability for injury under workmen's compensation act, regardless of question of negligence, Arizona Employes' Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400; New York
Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188; Same v. Bianc,
250 U. S. 596; the time and place of paying seaman's
wages, The Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169.
This yielding freedom of contract as to working conditions is also exemplified in the various factory acts and
safety appliance laws which have been sustained, but as
to which citation of authority is unnecessary.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT, after stating the case as

above, delivered the opinion of the Court.
The necessary postulate of the Industrial Court Act
is that the State, representing the people, is so much interested in their peace, health and comfort that it may
compel those engaged in the manufacture of food, and
clothing, and the production of fuel, whether owners or

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

workers, to continue in their business and employment
on terms fixed by an agency of the State if they can not
agree. Under the construction adopted by the State Supreme Court the act gives the Industrial Court authority
to permit the owner or employer to go out of the business, if he shows that he can only continue on the terms
fixed at such heavy loss that collapse will follow; but
this privilege under the circumstances is generally illusory.
Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135, 157. A laborer dissatisfied
with his wages is permitted to quit, but he may not
agree with his fellows to quit or combine with others to
induce them to quit.
These qualifications do not change the essence of the
act. It curtails the right of the employer on the one hand,
and of the employee on the other, to contract about his
affairs. This is part of the liberty of the individual protected by the guaranty of the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Meyer v. Nebraska, ante, 390.
While there is no such .thing as absolute freedom of contract and it is subject to a variety of restraints, they must
not be arbitrary or unreasonable. Freedom is the general rule, and restraint the exception. The legislative authority to abridge can be justified only by exceptional circumstances. Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261 U. S.
525.
It is argued for the State that such exceptional circumstances exist in the present case and that the act is neither
arbitrary nor unreasonable. Counsel maintain:
First. The act declares that the preparation of human
food is affected by a public interest and the power of the
legislature so to declare and then to regulate the business is established in Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Budd
v. New York, 143 U. S. 517; Brass v. Stoeser, 153 U. S.
391; Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; German
Alliance Insurance Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389; and Block
v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135.

WOLFF CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COURT.
522

535

Opinion of the Court.

Second. The power to regulate a business affected with
a public interest extends to fixing wages and terms of
employment to secure continuity of operation. Wilson v.
New, 243 U. S. 332, 352, 353.
Businesses said to be clothed with a public interest
justifying some public regulation may be divided into
three classes:
(1) Those which are carried on under the authority of
a public grant of privileges which either expressly or impliedly imposes the affirmative duty of rendering a public service demanded by any member of the public. Such
are the railroads, other common carriers and public
utilities.
(2) Certain occupations, regarded as exceptional, the
public interest attaching to which, recognized from
earliest times, has survived the period of arbitrary laws
by Parliament or Colonial legislatures for regulating all
trades and callings. Such are those of the keepers of
inns, cabs and grist mills. State v. Edwards, 86 Me. 102;
Terminal Taxicab Co. v. District of Columbia, 241 U. S.
252, 254.
(3) Businesses which though not public at their inception may be fairly said to have risen to be such and have
become subject in consequence to some government regulation. They have come to hold such a peculiar relation
to the public that this is superimposed upon them. In
the language of the cases, the owner by devoting his
business to the public use, in effect grants the public an
interest in that use and subjects himself to public regulation to the extent of that interest although the property
continues to belong to its private owner and to be entitled
to protection accordingly. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113;
Spring Valley Water Works v. Schottler, 110 U. S. 347;
Budd v. New York, 117 N. Y. 1, 27; s. c. 143 U. S. 517;
Brass v. Stoeser, 153 U. S. 391; Noble State Bank v.
Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; German Alliance Insurance Co.

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389; Van Dyke v. Geary, 244 U. S.
39, 47; Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135.
It is manifest from an examination of the cases cited
under the third head that the mere declaration by a
legislature that a business is affected with a public interest is not conclusive of the question whether its attempted regulation on that ground is justified. The circumstances of its alleged change from the status of a
private business and its freedom from regulation into one
in which the public have come to have an interest are
always a subject of judicial inquiry.
In a sense, the public is concerned about all lawful
business because it contributes to the prosperity and well
being of the people. The public may suffer from high
prices or strikes in many trades, but the expression
"clothed with a public interest," as applied to a business,
means more than that the public welfare is affected by
continuity or by the price at which a commodity is sold
or a service rendered. The circumstances which clothe a
particular kind of business with a public interest, in the
sense of Munn v. Illinois and the other cases, must be
such as to create a peculiarly close relation between the
public and those engaged in it, and raise implications of
an affirmative obligation on their part to be reasonable in
dealing with the public.
It is urged upon us that the declaration of the legislature that the 'business of food preparation is affected
with a public interest and devoted to a public use should
be most persuasive with the Court and that nothing but
the clearest reason to the contrary will prevail with the
Court to hold otherwise. To this point, counsel for the
State cite Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361; Strickley v. Highland Boy Gold Mining Co., 200 U. S. 527; Hairston v.
Danville & Western Ry. Co., 208 U. S.598, 600; Union
Lime Co. v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 233 U. S.
211; Jones v. Portland, 245 U. S. 217, and Green v.

WOLFF CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COURT.
522

537

Opinion of the Court.

Frazier, 253 U. S. 233. These cases are not especially
helpful in determining how a business must be devoted
to a public use to clothe it with a public interest *so as to
permit regulation of rates or prices. They were of two
classes, one where condemnation proceedings were opposed on the ground that private property could only be
taken for a public use and the use contemplated by the
legislature was not a public one. The other was of tax
suits in which the validity of the tax was denied because
the use for which the tax was levied was not a public one.
"Public use" in such cases would seem to be a term of
wider scope than where it is used to describe that which
clothes property or business "with a public interest."
In the former, the private owner is fully compensated for
his property. In the latter, the use for which the tax is
laid may be any purpose in which the State may engage,
and this covers almost any private business if the legisthe State's engagement in it will help the
lature
generalthinks
public and is willing to pay the cost of the plant
and incur the expense of operation.
It has never been supposed, since the adoption of the
Constitution, that the business of the butcher, or the
baker, the tailor, the wood chopper, the mining operator
or the miner was clothed with such a public interest that
the price of his product or his wages could be fixed by
State regulation. It is true that in the days of the early
common law an omnipotent Parliament did regulate
prices and wages as it chose, and occasionally a Colonial
legislature sought to exercise the same power; but nowadays one does not devote one's property or business to
the public use or clothe it with a public interest merely
because one makes commodities for, and sells to, the public in the common callings of which those above mentioned are instances.
An ordinary producer, manufacturer or shopkeeper may
sell or not sell as he likes, United States v. Trans-Missouri

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

FreightA8sociation, 166 U. S. 290, 320; Terminal Taxicab
Co.v. District of Columbia,241 U. S. 252, 256, and while
this feature does not necessarily exclude businesses from
the class clothed with a public interest, German Alliance
Insurance Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389, it usually distinguishes private from quasi-public occupations.
In nearly all the businesses included under the third
head above, the thing which gave the public interest was
the indispensable nature of the service and the exorbitant
charges and arbitrary control to which the public might
be subjected without regulation.
In the preparation of food, the changed conditions have
greatly increased the capacity for treating the raw product and transferred the work from the shop with few employees to the great plant with many. Such regulation
of it as there has been, has been directed toward the
health of the workers in congested masses, or has consisted of inspection and supervision with a view to the
health of the public. But never has regulation of food
preparation been extended to fixing wages or the prices to
the public, as in the cases cited above where fear of
monopoly prompted, and was held to justify, regulation
of rates. There is no monopoly in the preparation of
foods. The prices charged by plaintiff in error are, it is
conceded, fixed by competition throughout the country at
large. Food is now produced in greater volume and
variety than ever before. Given uninterrupted interstate commerce, the sources of the food supply in Kansas
are countrywide, a short supply is not likely, and the
danger from local monopolistic control less than ever.
It is very difficult under the cases to lay down a working rule by which readily to determine when a business
has become "clothed with a public interest." All business is subject to some kinds of public regulation; but
when the public becomes so peculiarly dependent upon a
particular business that one engaging therein subjects

WOLFF CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COURT.
522

539

Opinion of the Court.

himself to a more intimate public regulation is only to be
determined by the process of exclusion and inclusion and
to gradual establishment of a line of distinction. We are
relieved from considering and deciding definitely whether
preparation of food should be put in the third class of
quasi-public businesses, noted above, because even so, the
valid regulation to which it might be subjected as such,
could not include what this act attempts.
To say that a business is clothed with a public interest,
is not to determine what regulation may be permissible
in view of the private rights of the owner. The extent to
which an inn or a cab system may be regulated may differ
widely from that allowable as to a railroad or other common carrier. It is not a matter of legislative discretion
solely. It depends on the nature of the business, on the
feature which touches the public, and on the abuses reasonably to be feared. To say that a business is clothed
with a public interest is not to import that the public
may take over its entire management and run it at the
expense of the owner. The extent to which regulation
may reasonably go varies with different kinds of business. The regulation of rates to avoid monopoly is one
thing. The regulation of wages is another. A business
may be of such character that only the first is permissible,
while another may involve such a possible danger of
monopoly on the one hand, and such disaster from stoppage on the other, that both come within the public concern and power of regulation.
If, as, in effect, contended by counsel for the State, the
common callings are clothed with a public interest by a
mere legislative declaration, which necessarily authorizes
full and comprehensive regulation within legislative discretion, there must be a revolution in the relation of government to general business. This will be running the
public interest argument into the ground, to use a phrase
of Mr. Justice Bradley when characterizing a similarly

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

extreme contention. Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3, 24.
It will be impossible to reconcile such resuj t with the
freedom of contract and of labor secured by the Fourteenth Amendment.
This brings us to the nature and purpose of the regulation under the Industrial Court Act. The avowed
object is continuity of food, clothing and fuel supply.
By ยง 6 reasonable continuity and efficiency of the industries specified are declared to be necessary for the public
peace, health and general welfare, and all are forbidden
to hinder, limit or suspend them. Section 7 gives the Industrial Court power, in case of controversy between
employers and workers which may endanger the continuity or efficiency of service, to bring the employer and
employees before it and, after hearing and investigation,
to fix the terms and conditions between them. The employer is bound by this act to pay the wages fixed and,
while the worker is not required to work, at the wages
fixed, he is forbidden, on penalty of fine or imprisonment,
to strike against them, and thus is compelled to give up
that means of putting himself on an equality with his
employer which action in concert with his fellows
gives him.
There is n'authority of this Court to sustain such
exercise of power in respect to those kinds of business
affected with a public interest by a change in pais, first
fully recognized by this Court in Munn v. Illinois, 8upra,
where it said (p. 126):
"Property does become clothed with a public interest
when used in a manner to make it of public consequence,
and affect the community at large. When, therefore, one
devotes his property to a use in which the public has an
interest, he, in effect, grants to the public an interest in
that use, and must submit to be controlled by the public
for the common good, the extent of the interest he has
thus created. He may withdraw his grant by discon-

WOLFF CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COURT.
522

541

Opinion of the Court.

tinuing the use; but so long as he maintains the use, he
must submit to the control."
These words refute the view that public regulation in
such cases can secure continuity of a business against the
owner. The theory is that of revocable grant only.
Weems Steamboat Co. v. People's Steamboat Co., 214
U. S. 345. If that be so with the owner and employer,
a fortiori must it be so with the employee. In involves
a more drastic exercise of control to impose limitations
of continuity growing out of the public character of the
business upon the employee than upon the employer;
and without saying that such limitations upon both may
not be sometimes justified, it must be where the obligation to the public of continuous service is direct, clear
and mandatory and arises as a contractual condition express or implied of entering the business either as owner
or worker. It can only arise when investment by the
owner and entering the employment by the worker create
a conventional relation to the public somewhat equivalent to the appointment of officers and the enlistment of
soldiers and sailors in military service.
We are considering the validity of the act as compelling
the employer to pay the adjudged wages, and as forbidding the employees to combine against working and receiving them. The penalties of the act are directed
against effort of either side to interfere with the settlement by arbitration. Without this joint compulsion, the
whole theory and purpose of the act would fail. The
State can not be heard to say, therefore, that upon complaint of the employer, the effect upon the employee
should not be a factor in our judgment.
Justification for such regulation is said to be found in
Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332. It was there held that in
a nation-wide dispute over wages between railroad companies and their train operatives, with a general strike,
commercial paralysis and grave loss and suffering over-

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

hanging the country, Congress had power to prescribe
wages not confiscatory, but obligatory on both for a reasonable time to enable them to agree. The Court said
that the business of common carriers by rail was in one
aspect a public business because of the interest of society
in its continued operation and rightful conduct and that
this gave rise to a public right of regulation to the full
extent necessary to secure and protect it; that viewed as
an act fixing wages it was an essential regulation for protection of public right, that it did not invade the private
right of the carriers because their property and business
were subject to the power of government to insure fit relief by appropriate means and it did not invade private
rights of employees since their right to demand wages and
to leave the employment individually, or in concert was
subject to limitation by Congress because in a public business which Congress might regulate under the commerce
power.
It is urged that, under this act, the exercise of the
power of compulsory arbitration rests upon the existence
of a temporary emergency as in Wilson v. New. If that
is a real factor here as in Wilson v. New, and in Block
v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135, 157 (see Pennsylvania Coal Co.
v. Mahon, 260 U. S. 393), it is enough to say that the
great temporary public exigencies recognized by all and
declared by Congress, were very different from that upon
which the control under this act is asserted. Here it is
said to be the danger that a strike in one establishment
may spread to all the other similar establishments of the
State and country and thence to all the national sources
of food supply so as to produce a shortage. Whether such
danger exists has not been determined by the legislature
but is determined under the law by a subordinate agency
and on its findings and prophecy, owners and employers
are to be deprived of freedom of contract and workers of
a most important element of their freedom of labor.

WOLFF CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COURT.
522

543

Opinion of the Court.

The small extent of the injury to the food supply of
Kansas to be inflicted by a strike and suspension of this
packing company's plant is shown in the language of the
Kansas Supreme Court in this case (Court of Industrial
Relations v. Packing Co., 111 Kans. 501):
"The defendant's plant is a small one, and it may be
admitted that, if it should cease to operate, the effect on
the supply of meat and food in this State would not
greatly inconvenience the people of Kansas; yet the plant
manufactures food products and supplies meat to a part
of the people of this State, and, if it should cease to operate, that source of supply would be cut off."
The Supreme Court's construction of the operation and
effect of the act is controlling. The language quoted
shows how drastic and all-inclusive it is.
But the chief and conclusive distinction between Wilson v. New and the case before us is that already referred
to. The power of a legislature to compel continuity in a
business can only arise where the obligation of continued
service by the owner and its employees is direct and is
assumed when the business is entered upon. A common
carrier which accepts a railroad franchise is not free to
withdraw the use of that which it has granted to the
public. It is true that if operation is impossible without
continuous loss, Brooks-Scanlon Co. v. Railroad Commission, 251 U. S. 396; Bullock v. Railroad Commission,
254 U. S. 513, it may give up its franchise and enterprise,
but short of this, it must continue. Not so the owner
when by mere changed conditions his business becomes
clothed with a public interest. He may stop at will
whether the business be losing or profitable.
The minutely detailed government supervision, including that of their relations to their employees, to which
the railroads of the country have been gradually subjected
by Congress through its power over interstate commerce,
furnishes no precedent for regulation of the business of

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S

the plaintiff in error whose classification as public is at
the best doubtful. It is not too much to say that the
ruling in Wilson v. New went to the border line, although
it concerned an interstate common carrier in the presence
of a nation-wide emergency and the possibility of great
disaster. Certainly there is nothing to justify extending

the drastic regulation sustained in that exceptional case
to the one before us.
We think the Industrial Court Act, in so far as it permits the fixing of wages in plaintiff in error's packing
house, is in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment and
deprives it of its property and liberty of contract without due process of law.
The judgment of the court below must be
Reversed.
KENTUCKY FINANCE CORPORATION v. PARAMOUNT AUTO EXCHANGE CORPORATION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 17. Argued October 5, 1922.--Decided June 11, 1923.
1. A corporation which goes into a State other than that of its creation for the lawful purpose of repossessing itself, by a permissible
action in her courts, of specific personal property unlawfully taken
out of its possession elsewhere and fraudulently carried into that
State, is a person within the jurisdiction of that State, within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, for all the purposes of
that undertaking, and entitled to the equal protection of the laws.
P. 549.
2. As applied.to such a case, a statute under which the foreign corporation, not domesticated or doing business in the State, or having property there other than that so sought to be recovered, may
be compelled, as a condition to the maintenance of its action, to
send its officer, with its papers and books bearing on the matter
in controversy, from its domicile to the State where the action is
brought, in order to submit to an adversary examination before
answer, but which does not subject non-resident individuals to such

