OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.

505

Order.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN EQUITY.

No. 18, Original.
Order entered June 4, 1923.
Order directing Commissioners, heretofore appointed for locating and
marking the boundary between Texas and Oklahoma on the south
bank of Red River, to survey and plat also the medial line between
that boundary and the northerly bank, in the vicinity of the oil
wells; with provisions for report, objections, approval, and costs.

The commissioners heretofore designated herein to run,
locate and mark portions of the boundary between the
States of Texas and Oklahoma on and along the south
bank'of Red River are hereby ordered and directed also to
survey, and run upon the ground and to delineate upon
a suitable plat the medial line between such state boundary and the northerly bank of such river for a total
length of three miles at and in the vicinity of the river
bed oil wells. In so surveying, running and platting such
medial line the commissioners shall conform to the fifth
paragraph of the decree entered herein March 12, 1923
[261 U. S. 345], entitled, "Supplement to Partial Decree
of June 5, 1922," and shall ascertain and show on such
plat the exact location of all oil wells which are within
three hundred feet of such medial line. The commissioners shall make a separate report of their action under
this order, and shall include therein a statement of the
time employed and the expenses incurred in that work.
The work and report of the commissioners hereunder shall
be subject to the approval of the Court. Copies of the
report shall be promptly delivered to the two States and
the United States, and exceptions or objections thereto,

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.

506

Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

if there be such, on the part of either State, the United
States or any private intervener herein, shall be presented

to the Court, or, if it be not in session, filed with the
Clerk, within forty days 'after the report is made. The
cost of executing this order shall be borne and paid as
part of the expenses of the receivership.

SONNEBORN BROTHERS v. CURETON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF TEXAS,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 20. Argued March 24, 1922; restored to docket for reargument
May 29, 1922; reargued October 5, 1922.-Decided June 11,

1923.
1. A state occupation tax, levied on all wholesale dealers in oil and
measured by a per cent. of the gross amount of their respective
sales made within the State, is not invalid, as a burden on interstate commerce, when applied to local sales in the original packages,
of oil previously shipped into the State and stored by the dealer
as part of his stock in trade. P. 508.
2. As regards immunity from state taxation, the distinction between
imports and articles in original packages in interstate commerce, is
that, in the one case, the immunity attaches to the import itself
before sale, while, in the other, it depends on whether the tax
regulates or burdens interstate commerce. P. 509.
Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, followed. Standard Oil Co. v.
Graves, 249 U. S. 389; Askren v. Continental Oil Co., 252 U. S.
444; Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642, and Texas Co.
v. Brown, 258 U. S. 466, qualified.
Affirmed.

a decree of the District Court dismissing, on
final hearing, the appellants' bill, which sought to enjoin
the enforcement of penalties for failure to make reports
of sales of oil and for failure to pay a state tax, in respect
APPEAL from

