OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

unconstitutionality of the act is argued; here, as there, it
is urged that these contentions constituted defenses that
could be made in the suit, and that relief was not only
through the "filing of a claim and instituting proceedings as provided by Section 9 of the Trading with the
Enemy Act."
We repeat, therefore, the cases are identical and upon
the authority of that case, the order of the District Court
denying Wesche's petition for intervention is
Affirmed.
AHRENFELDT v. MILLER, AS ALIEN PROPERTY
CUSTODIAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 576. Argued April 13, 1923.--Decided April 23, 1923.
Decided upon the authority of Commercial Trust Co. v. Miller, ante,
51.
282 Fed. 944, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals which affirmed an order of the District Court denying the appellant's petition for leave to intervene in the
case above cited.
Mr. Selden Bacon for appellant.
Mr. James A. Fowler, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Ahrenfeldt, the appellant, filed a petition in the District Court in the case of Garvan v. Commercial Trust
Co., (in this Court, Commercial Trust Co. v. Miller,
No. 575, ante, 51) for leave to intervene, alleging that

AHRENFELDT v. MILLER.
60

Opinion of the Court.

he was an American citizen residing abroad since January 1st, 1914, in France, England and Switzerland, having no residence in any judicial district of the United
States during that time.
He further alleged that he was the admitted separate
owner of an identified portion of the securities and cash
deposited with the Commercial Trust Company as mentioned in cases Nos. 575 and 292, ante, 51, 58, and that his
"petition for leave to intervene related solely to his own
separate property."
The District Court denied his petition and its order was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. The grounds of
affirmance, the Court, through Circuit Judge Woolley,
expressed as follows:
"At the hearing in Comrhercial Trust Company of New
Jersey v. Thomas W. Miller, as Alien Property Custodian,
275 Fed. 841, the appellant, Charles J. Ahrenfeldt, presented a petition for leave to intervene and have determined by the District Court his claim to ownership of
a part of the property in process of seizure. The District Court denied the petition, holding that the question sought to be litigated by Ahrenfeldt can be raised
only after the demand of the Alien Property Custodian
has been complied with, and then only by proceedings
authorized by Section 9 of the Act, as amended June 5,
1920. That the District Court was right is established
by the decisions of the Supreme Court in Central Union
Trust Co. v. Garvan,254 U. S.554, and Stoehr v. Wallace,
255 U. S.239.
"The order is affirmed."
It is manifest that the case is identical in legal principle, and to a certain and material extent in contentions,
with cases Nos. 575 and 292, and is necessarily involved
in their ruling.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming
the decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.

