CITY NATL. BANK v. EL PASO R. R.
679

695

Syllabus.

this case the record shows that the rate of return has been
low through a long period up to the time of the inquiry
by the commission here involved. For example, the average rate of return on the total cost of the property from
1895 to 1915, inclusive, was less than 5 per cent.; from
1911 to 1915, inclusive, about 4.4 per cent., without allowance for depreciation. In 1919 the net operating income was approximately $24,700, leaving $15,500, approximately, or 3.4 per cent. on $460,000 fixed by the
commission, after deducting 2 per cent. for depreciation.
In 1920, the net operating income was approximately
$25,465, leaving $16,265 for return, after allowing for depreciation. Under the facts and circumstances indicated
by the record, we think that a rate of return of 6 per cent.
upon the value of the property is substantially too low to
constitute just compensation for the use of the property
employed to render the service.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals of
West Virginia is reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in the judgment of reversal for the reasons stated by him in Missouri ex rel.
Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Service Commission of Missouri, supra.

CITY NATIONAL BANK OF EL PASO, TEXAS, v.
EL PASO & NORTHEASTERN RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, EIGHTH SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 309. Argued March 12, 1923.-Decided June 11, 1923.
Where a bank was accustomed, through an agent, to make interstate
shipments of cattle to another bank in care of a commission company, sending its drafts on the commission company for the pur-

696

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

chase price, with bill of lading attached, to the consignee bank,
with instructions to release the cattle on payment of the drafts,
and had ratified delivery of shipments to the commission company
before payment of such drafts, and where, on making a further
shipment, the direction in care of the commission company was, by
mutual mistake of the agent and the receiving carrier, omitted
from the bill of lading but at the command of the agent was noted
on the way bill, and the terminal carrier delivered the cattle of this
shipment to the commission company without surrender of the
bill of lading or payment of the draft, and the draft was not paid,
held, that the terminal carrier had a right to assume that delivery
might properly be made to the commission company, and that
delivery so made was delivery to the consignee bank; hence the
provisions of the Carmack Amendment had no applicatin.
225 S. W. 391, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals
of Texas, affirming a judgment for the respondent railroad companies in an action by the petitioner bank to
recover for their alleged failure to make delivery of a shipment of cattle in accordance with a bill of lading issued
by the initial carrier.
Mr. A. H. Culwell for petitioner.
Mr. William R. Harr,with whom Mr. W. A. Hawkins,
Mr. Del W. Harrington and Mr. Charles H. Bates were
on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
This action was commenced in the District Court of
El Paso County by the petitioner to recover $10,101.18
for alleged failure to deliver, in accordance with a shipping contract, 847 head of cattle shipped October 27, 1911,
by the petitioner from El Paso, Texas, to Kansas City,
Missouri, over the connecting lines of railway of respondents,' there to be delivered to the First National Bank of
'The other respondents are: El Paso & Southwestern Company,
El Paso & Northeastern Railway Company, El Paso & Rock Island

CITY NATL. BANK v. EL PASO
695

. R.

697

Opinion of the Court.

that city. Judgment for the respondent was affirmed by
the Court of Civil Appeals of the Eighth Supreme Judicial
District of Texas (225 S. W. 391). The Supreme Court
of the State denied a writ of error. On petitioner's application, asserting that federal rights claimed by it in the
state courts under the Carmack Amendment (c. 3591, 34
Stat. 595) are denied by the judgment, the case was
brought here on certiorari.
The petitioner declared upon alleged failure of respondents to deliver the cattle to the First National Bank of
Kansas City, in accordance with a bill of lading issued by
the initial carrier; it alleged the value of the cattle to be
$20,000, and claimed $10,101.18 on account of failure by
the carriers to deliver the cattle to the consignee named.
The shipment in question was the last of 18 or 20 trainload shipments of cattle by petitioner from El Paso to
Kansas City. The record shows that for some time prior
to the date of this shipment, one Cameron had been buying cattle in the interior of Mexico and shipping them to
Juarez, whence they entered the United States at El Paso.
A bank of Chihuahua furnished the money to pay for
the cattle. That bank consigned them to petitioner at El
Paso, making draft with bill of lading attached, for the
amount of the purchase price. After the cattle were delivered to the petitioner on the American side, it paid the
draft and refunded the purchase price to the Chihuahua
bank. It then shipped the cattle to Kansas City for sale.
J. P. Peters was a cattle broker doing business in Kansas
City under the name of J. P. Peters Commission Company.
His son, J. A. Peters, was employed by Cameron. He
also acted for the petitioner, and all of the shipments were
handled exclusively by him as its agent. All of the previous shipments were delivered to the commission comRailway Company, Chicago, Rock Island & El Paso Railway Company, Chicago, Rock Island & Gulf Railway Company, and Chicago,
Rock Island & Pacific Railway Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

pany upon arrival at Kansas City, and, with the exception of some of the earliest, were shipped by him to the
First National Bank of Kansas City "care of the J. P.
Peters Commission Company." This practice was adopted
because the bank was closed at the time one of the earlier
shipments arrived, and the day's market was lost.
At the time of the shipment in question, a bill of lading
was issued by the receiving carrier signed by its agent
and by the "City National Bank, By J. A. Peters, Shipper." The waybill contemporaneously made designated
the consignee "First National Bank, Kansas City, Mo.,
care J. P. Peters Commission Company. . . ." The
petitioner made a draft, with bill of lading attached, on
the commission company and forwarded it to the bank at
Kansas City, with directions to release the cattle on payment of the draft, and to wire petitioner for instructions,
if the draft was not paid. The terminal carrier delivered
the cattle to the commission company without surrender
of the bill of lading or the payment of the draft. The
bank returned the bill of lading and the draft to the petitioner. The draft has never been paid in full, and this
action is to recover the amount remaining unpaid. The
jury found that, at the time of the execution of the bill
of lading, it was agreed between the petitioner, acting
through J. A. Peters, and the receiving carrier, that the
cattle should be consigned by bill of lading to the First
National Bank of Kansas City, Missouri, care of the J.P.
Peters Commission Company; that through mutual mistake, the bill of lading omitted the words "care of the
J. P. Peters Commission Company," and that the petitioner through its said agent, directed the agent of the
receiving carrier to note on the waybill that the cattle
were consigned to the First National Bank of Kansas City,
care of the J.P. Peters Commission Company. The jury
also found that prior shipments of cattle above referred
to had been delivered by the terminal carrier to the com-

CITY NATL. BANK v. EL PASO R. R.
695

699

Opinion of the Court.

mission company before the payment of drafts to which
the bills of lading were attached, and that the First
National Bank acquiesced in and ratified such deliveries;
that in reliance on such acquiescence and ratification, the
terminal carrier delivered the shipment in question to the
commission company without the surrender of the bill of
lading, and that such acquiescence or ratification was reasonably sufficient to induce the belief that the commission
company was authorized to receive the cattle for the bank.
The petitioner complained that the carrier failed to
deliver the cattle to the bank named as consignee or to
the petitioner. If delivery was made to that bank, or
to the petitioner, or on its order, the carriers did not
commit any breach alleged, and there can be no recovery. "
And if, as in the case of previous shipments, the contract
had read "First National Bank of Kansas City, Mo.,
care of J. P. Peters Commission Company", delivery to
the commission company would have been performance
of the agreement. See Ela v. American Merchants' Union
Express Co., 29 Wis. 611, 616; Bell v. Windsor & Annapolis Ry. Co., 24 N. S. 521. The bank had ratified the
delivery of prior shipments to the commission company
before payment of drafts accompanying bills of lading.
The terminal carrier had a right to assume that delivery
of this shipment properly might be made to the commission company. J. A. Peters acted for the petitioner
in making all of the shipments. He directed the prior
shipments to be made to the consignee bank in care of the
commission company. At his instance the waybill directed delivery of this shipment to the named consignee
in care of the commission company. His orders and directions were binding on the petitioner. Thus in legal
' See decision of this case in Court of Civil Appeals, 225 S. W.
391, 400, holding that the petition alleging failure to deliver to consignee would not support recovery for a delivery without surrender

of bill of lading.

700

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

effect the petitioner at the time it made the shipment
expressly ordered delivery to be made to the consignee
bank in care of the commission company, and caused
the agent of the receiving carrier to so direct on the waybill. We think it must be held that, under these circumstances, delivery to the commission company was
delivery to the consignee bank.
This being so, the provisions of the Carmack Amendment have no application.
The judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals is affirmed.
RINDGE COMPANY ET AL. v. COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, SECOND APPELLATE DISTRICT, DIVISION ONE, OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.

No. 237.

Argued April 26, 1923.-Decided June 11, 1923.

1. Whether a use for which private property is taken is public
or private is a judicial question the determination of which is influenced by local conditions; and this Court, while enforcing the
Fourteenth Amendment, should keep in view the diversity of such
conditions, and regard with great respect the judgments of state
courts upon what should be deemed public uses. P. 705.
2. It is not essential that the entire community, or even a con-siderable portion, should directly enjoy an improvement in order
to constitute a public use. P. 706.
3. A taking of land for a highway extension is a taking for a
public use, even though the extension lie wholly within the tract
of a single landowner, and terminate at his boundaries and connect with no public road save at its beginning, if it be susceptible
of present use not only by those gaining access from the highway
but by persons living on or adjacent to the tract with access by
private ways, and of future use by those living beyond its terminus,
through future road construction. P. 706.
4. A highway may be legally laid out extending to a state or county
line even though there be at the time no connecting highway in

