GEORGIA RY. CO. v. COLLEGE PARK.

441

Opinion of the Court.

GEORGIA RAILWAY & POWER COMPANY ET AL.
v. MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
COLLEGE PARK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

No. 464. Argued April 24, 25, 1923.-Decided June 4, 1923.

1. A state statute extending the limits of a city and construed as
having the effect of rendering applicable to the added territory
maximum street railway rates fixed by an earlier contract between
the city and the street railway company, impairs the obligation of
the contract by adding to its burdens. P. 442. Georgia Ry. &
Power Co. v. Decatur, ante, 432.
2. A contract of a street railway company with a city to carry passengers for a fare not greater than a stated maximum does not
oblige it to issue free transfers. Id.
3. A contract of a street railway company with a city fixing a maximum fare for passage from that city to another city, construed,
in accordance with the practice of the parties, as applying to
passage between, the cities in either direftion. Id.
153 Ga. 329, reversed; certiorari denied.
ERROR

to a decree of the SApreme Court of Georgia

affirming a decree for the City of College Park in its suit
to enforce compliance with a contract fixing street railway fares.
Mr. Walter T. Colquitt, with whom Mr. L. Z. Rosser
and Mr. J.Prince Webster were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Geo. P. Whitman for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND
Court.

delivered the opinion of the

The facts in this case and the contentions to be considered, with some exceptions presently to be stated, are
essentially the same as those involved in Georgia Ry. &
Power Co. v. Decatur, No. 463, just decided, ante, 432.
From their inception in the state courts the two cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

have been considered together and in each of the three
decisions referred to in the Decatur Case the State Supreme Court has disposed of them in a single opinion.
The contract here involved was made in 1905. It
granted to the Electric Company the right to convert its
single track within the limits of the municipality into a
double track line of electric railway and provided: "That
no greater fare than that of five cents for each passenger
be charged for passage from the southern limits of said
city of College Park to some central point in the City of
Atlanta." The contract, however, unlike the Decatur
one, contains no provision on the subject of transfers.
Subsequently, by an act of the legislature, the limits of
College Park were extended so as to take in a portion of
the College Park line theretofore outside the municipality. Upon the authority of the Decatur Case, we hold
that the application of the five-cent fare to the annexed
territory impairs the obligation of the contract. In addition to that, the order of the commission requiring the
issuance of free transfers to College Park patrons, was
erroneous.
The state courts, in. effect, construed the contract as
obliging defendant to carry passengers in both directions
between College Park and Atlanta at the stipulated rate,
and with this construction we agree. It cannot be supposed to have been within the intention of the contracting parties that one rate of fare should be charged for
passage in one direction and a different rate in the opposite direction, for the same distance, over the same line,
under the same conditions and entailing the same service.
Such a construction of the clause would subvert the plain
purpose of the ordinance, which was to fix a five-cent fare
between the two cities. We construe the phrase "from
.

.

.

College Park to . .

.

Atlanta" as though

it read "between College Park and Atlanta." See State
v. Stone,. 20 R. I. 269. This construction, moreover,

BRUSH ELEC. CO, v. GALVESTON.
441

Opinion of the Court.

agrees with the practice of the appellant, extending over
many years in charging the same fare in each direction.
The decree of the State Supreme Court is reversed and
the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
Writ of certiorari denied.
BRUSH ELECTRIC COMPANY v. CITY OF GALVESTON ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 179. Argued April 18, 19, 1923.-Decided June 4, 1923.
A decree of the District Court refusing present relief by injunction
from rates challenged by a public utility company as confiscatory,
but leaving the plaintiff free to renew its application after an actual
test of the rates, affirmed, because the evidence was so conflicting
and the conclusion to be drawn from it respecting items involved
in the computation was so uncertain and speculative as not to
warrant disturbance of the findings of the lower court. P. 446.
Affirmed.

from a decree of the District Court refusing to
enjoin the enforcement of ordinances of the appellee regulating the rates to be charged by the appellant for electricity.
APPEAL

Mr. William H. Ambrecht, with whom Mr. Chas. A.
Frueauff was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. James W. Wayman, with whom Mr. Frank S.
Anderson was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellant for many years has been oterating an
electric light and power plant in the City of Galveston,

