OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Title.

262 U.S.

CUNARD STEAMSHIP COMPANY, LTD., ET AL.
v. MELLON, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY,
ET AL.
OCEANIC STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.,
v. MELLON, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY,
ET AL.
INTERNATIONAL NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.,
v. MELLON, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY,
T AL.
COMPAGNIE GENERALE TRANSATLANTIQUE
v. MELLON, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY,
ET AL.
NETHERLANDS - AMERICAN STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY (HOLLAND AMERICA LINE)
v. MELLON, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY,
ET AL.
LIVERPOOL, BRAZIL & RIVER PLATE STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD., v. MELLON,
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, ET AL.
ROYAL MAIL STEAM PACKET COMPANY v. MELLON, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, ET AL.
UNITED STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF COPENHAGEN (SCANDINAVIAN AMERICAN LINE)
v. MELLON, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY,
ET AL.
PACIFIC STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY v. MEL..
LON, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, ET AL.
NAVIGAZIONE GENERALE ITALIANA v. MELLON,
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, ET AL.

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

101

Syllabus.

INTERNATIONAL MERCANTILE MARINE COMPANY v. STUART, ACTING COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS FOR THE PORT OF NEW YORK, ET AL.
UNITED AMERICAN LINES, INC., ET AL. v.
STUART, ACTING COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS
FOR THE PORT OF NEW YORK, ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 659-662, 666-670, 678, 693, 694. Argued January 4, 5, 1923.Decided April 30, 1923.
1. The words " transportation" and "importation," in the Eighteenth
Amendment, are to be taken "in their ordinary sense, the former
comprehending any real carrying about or from one place to
another, and the latter any actual bringing into the country from

the outside. P. 121.
2. The word "territory," in'the Amendment (in the phrase "the
United States and all territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof,")
means the regional areas, of land and adjacent waters, over which

the United States claims and exercises dominion and control as
a sovereign power,--the term being used in a physical, not a metaphorical sense, and referring to areas and districts having fixity of
location and recognized boundaries. P. 122.
3. The territory subject to the jurisdiction of the United States includes the land areas under its dominion and control, the ports,
harbors, bays anid other enclosed arms of the sea along its coast,
and a marginal belt of the sea extending from the coast line outward a marine league, or three geographic miles; and this territory, and all 6f it, is that which the Amendment designates as its
field of operation. P. 122.
4. Domestic merchant ships outside the waters of the United States,
whether on the high seas or in foreign waters, are part of the
"territory" of the United States in a metaphorical sanse only, and
are not covered by the Amendment. P. 123.
5. The jurisdiction arising out of the nationality of a merchant ship,
as established by her domicile, registry and use of the flag, partakes more of the characteristics of personal than of territorial
sovereignty, is chiefly applicable to ships on the high seas where
there is no territorial sovereign; and, as respects ships in foreign

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

territorial waters, it has little application beyond what is affirmatively or tacitly permitted by the local sovereign. P. 123.
6. The Amendment covers foreign merchant ships when within the
territorial waters of the United States. P. 124.
7. A merchant ship of one country, voluntarily entering the territorial limits of another, subjects herself to the jurisdiction of the
latter. The jurisdiction attaches in virtue of her presence, just as
with other objects within those limits. During her stay she is
entitled to the protection of the laws of that place, and correlatively
is bound to yield obedience to them. The local sovereign may, out
of considerations of public policy, choose to forego the exertion of
its jurisdiction, or to exert it in a limited way only, but this
is a matter resting solely in its discretion. P. 124.
8. The Eighteenth Amendment does not prescribe any penalties, forfeitures, or mode of enforcement, but by its second section leaves
these to legislative action. P. 126.
9. The only instance in which the National' Prohibition Act recognizes the possession of intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes
as lawful, is where the liquor was obtained before the act went into
effect and is kept in the owner's dwelling for use therein by him,
his family, and his bona fide guests. P. 127.
10. Examination of the National Prohibition Act, as supplemented
November 23, 1921, c. 134, 42 Stat. 222, shows,
(a) That it is intended to be operative throughout the territorial
limits of the United States, with the single exception of liquor in
transit through the Panama Canal or on the Panama Railroad,
(b) That it is not intended to apply to domestic vessels when outside
the territorial waters of the United States,
(c) That it is intended to apply to all merchant vessels, whether
foreign or domestic, when within those waters, save as the Panama
Canal Zone exception provides otherwise. Pp. 127-129.
11. Congress, however, has power to regulate the conduct of domestic merchant ships when on the high seas, or to exert such control over them when in foreign waters as may be affirmatively or
tacitly permitted by the territorial sovereign. P. 129.
12. The antiquity of the practice of carrying intoxicating liquors
for beverage purposes as part of a ship's sea stores, the wide extent of the practice and its recognition in a congressional enactment, do not go to prove that the Eighteenth Amendment and
the Prohibition Act could not have been intended to disturb that
practice, since their avowed and obvious purpose was to put an
end to prior practices respecting such liquors. P. 129.

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

Argument for Appellants.

13. After the adoption of the Amendment and the enactment of
the National Prohibition Act, Congress withdrew the prior statutory recognition of liquors as legitimate sea stores. Rev. Stats.,
§ 2775; Act of September 21, 1922, c. 356, Tit. IV, and § 642, 42
Stat. 858, 948, 989. P. 130.
14. The carrying of intoxicating liquors, as sea stores, for beverage
purposes, through the territorial waters or into the ports and
harbors, of the United States, by foreign or domestic merchant
ships, is forbidden by the Amendment and the act. P. 130.

284 Fed. 890, affirmed.
285 Fed. 79, reversed.
APPEALS

from decrees of the District Court dismissing,

on the merits, as many suits brought by the appellant
steamship companies for the purpose of enjoining officials
of the United States from seizing liquors carried by appellants' passenger ships as sea stores and from taking
other proceedings against the companies and their vessels,
under the National Prohibition Act.
Mr. George W. Wickersham for appellants in Nos.
659-66, 666-670, and 678.
I. Neither the Eighteenth Amendment, nor, the National Prohibition Act, properly construed, requires the
application of the prohibition to every place where the
United States may exercise its power.
This statute contained no provision defining the territory within which it should be operative. It, therefore,
was governed by the provisions of Rev. Stats., § 1891:
"The Constitution and all laws of the United States
which are not locally inapplicable shall have the same
force and effect within all the organized Territories, and
in every Territory hereafter organized as elsewhere within
the United States."
A question having arisen as to the jurisdiction of the
courts in the territories and insular possessions of the
United States to enforce the act, a section was enacted
in the Supplemental Act of November 23, 1921. An examination of the debates preceding this discloses only a

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

262 U. S.

most perfunctory consideration of the section. It clearly
appears that the dominating purpose underlying its inclusion in the act was to give power to the courts of Hawaii
and the Vitgin Islands to enforce the statute.
There is nothing else in all of the many pages of the
Congressional Record devoted to a discussion of these
two acts which throws any further light upon the territorial limitations of their application. Especially is there
nothing to indicate that Congress was extending the application of the law to any place not previously embraced
within the description contained in the Amendment, "the
United States and all the territories subject to the jurisdiction thereof." It surely is a strained construction to
hold that a foreign ship temporarily within American
waters is embraced within the phrase" the territories subject to the jurisdiction" of the United States. Nothing
in the legislative history of the act supports the contention that Congress had any such intention.
Evidently Congress was in some doubt as to whether or
not the National Prohibition Act, ex proprio vigore, applied to territories which had not been embodied within
the United States, and, therefore, deemed it necessary
specifically to extend it to such territory. The Philippine Islands undoubtedly are territory subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, yet we have not heard that
the Eighteenth Amendment ex proprio vigore applies to
them, nor that the National Prohibition Act governs
them. Moreover, § 20, Tit. III, of that act itself involves
a recognition of the fact that the statute by its own terms
did not apply to everything subject to the jurisdiction of
the United States, because it specifically provides for its
application to the Canal Zone-which has been defined as
not a "territory" but "'a place subject to the jurisdiction
of the United States" (25 Ops. Atty. Gen. 441), and also
expressly provides that it shall not apply to liquor in
transit through that zone by railroad or steamship.

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

Argument for Ap.pellants.

It is difficult to understand why, if Congress was right
in supposing it could exclude transportation of liquors
from the application of the Amendment under any circumstances, it could not exclude it by failure specifically
to include, as well as by an exception expressly grafted
on to a comprehensive inclusion.
In our view, § 20, Tit. III, involves the expression of
an important recognition by Congress that it has power
under the Amendment to exclude from the operations of
prohibition in some instances, and, if that be true, the
words "territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof" in
the Eighteenth Amendment cannot mean "wherever the
United States may exercise its power," as contended by
the Government.
The conclusions announced by this Court in the National ProhibitionCases, 253 U. S. 350, are not at variance
with this view. Nor do we think that Grogan v. Walker
& Sons Co. and Anchor Line v. Aldridge, 259 U. S. 80, are.
In adopting the broad canon of construction which
controlled the decision rendered by this Court in the
Grogan and Anchor Line Cases, it is evident that the
Court plaed emphasis upon the controlling force of the
admonition contained in § 3 of Tit. II of the National
Prohibition Act, enjoining liberality of construction, to
the end that the use of intoxicating liquor as a beverage
might be prevented. Let us consider what meaning and
purpose are to be assigned to the Eighteenth Amendment
and the enforcing act. Certainly the first sense of every
law must be that the field of its operation is the country
of its enactment. This is equally true of the Eighteenth
Amendment and the National Prohibition Act. Necessarily, they get their meaning from the field and purpose
of their operation-from the conditions which exist in the
field or are designed to be established there. The transportation that they prohibit is transportation within that.
field-that is, the United States and its Territories, " for

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

262 U. S.

beverage purposes." The transportation and the purposes are, therefore, complements of each other and both
must exist to fulfill the declared prohibition. Thus considered, the "admonition" which received such emphasis
in the adoption of this broad canon of construction, and
was relied upon by the lower court herein, loses all force
under the circumstances of the instant case. Liberality of
interpretation is enjoined to the end "that the use of
intoxicating liquor as a beverage" may be prevented.
These words carry with them an unspoken but necessary
qualification, namely, "within the United States, its Territories, Hawaii, and the Virgin Islands."
We have said that the transportation and purposes
are complements of each other and both must exist to
fulfill the required prohibition. The foreign steamship
lines do not seek to transport liquor through, for use as
a beverage within, the United States, its Territories,
Hawaii, or the Virgin Islands.
II. A foreign ship temporarily within the waters of the
United States is not "territory subject to the jurisdiction" of the United States, within the meaning of the
Eighteenth Amendment and the National Prohibition
Act.
The jurisdiction exercised by a State over foreign vessels within her waters has been the subject of much
controversy. On the one hand, it is held that, in a sense,
the vessel is part of the territory of the Nation to which it
belongs, and those on board are subject to its laws, even in
a foreign port (Vattel, book 1, c. 19, § 216; Wheat. Int.
Law, 157; Brown v. Duchesne, 19 How. 183; Wilson v.
McNamee, 102 U. S. 572; United States v. Bowman, 260
U. S.94), while on the other hand, it is held, with certain
reservations, that by voldntarily coming into the waters
or ports of one Nation, the ships of another submit themselves to the laws of the former. United States v. Diekelman, 92 U. S. 520; Wildenhus's Case, 120 U. S. 1; The

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

Argument for Appellants.

Exchange, 7 Cr. 116, 144. See 2 Moore Int. Law Dig., p.
292; 8 Ops. Atty. Gen. 73; Taylor, Int. Law, § 268;
Wheaton, Int. Law, 5th Eng. ed. (Phillipson), p. 169; 2
Wharton, Conflict of Laws, 3d ed., §§ 816; 817; 42 Albany
Law Jour., pp. 345-353; 1 Oppenheim, Int. Law, 3d ed.,
§ 189; Ortolan, Diplomatie de la Mer, vol. 1, pp. 192, 193;
Gregory, 2 Mich. Law Rev., p. 333; 1 Halleck, Int. Law,
4th ed. (Baker), pp. 245-247; Wheaton, El. Int. Law,
8th ed., § 95, note 58; United States v. Bowman, 260
U. S. 94.
III. The courts will never give a construction to a
statute contrary to international law or the accepted
custom and usage of civilized nations, when it is possible
reasonably to construe it in any other manner. The
Paquete Habana, 175 U. S. 677; Murray v. Schooner
Charming Betsy, 2 Cr. 64.
The same rule, a fortiori, should apply to the construction of a provision in the Constitution. Presumably, provisions of the latter are not intended to regulate
the affairs of foreign nations or to upset established international usage. If, as we contend, the Amendment does
not foreclose the question, then it becomes one of statutory construction, namely, whether Congress intended to
disregard the long established general rule respecting the
jurisdiction of the country of a visiting ship over its internal affairs and to impose its will with respect to such
.internal management, in cases which cannot in any respect
be considered as affecting the peace and order of the port
into which the ships come. In construing other statutes
which might affect such internal management, the federal
courts have been careful to avoid, unless constrained by
the obvious, inescapable meaning of the act, giving such
construction to the statute as would lead to a conflict of
laws, or interference with well settled international usage,
or unduly interfere with the internal management of
the ship. The Exchange, 7 Cr. 116, 136, 146; Murray v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

262 U. S.

Schooner Charming Betsy, supra, 118; The Brig Wilson
v. United States, Fed. Cas. No. 17,846; Brown v. Duchesne, 19 How. 183; The State of Maine, 22 Fed. 734;
The Kestor, 110 Fed. 432; Pattersonv. Bark Eudora, 190
U. S. 169; Wildenhus's Case, 120 U. S. 1, 11, 12; Sandberg
v. McDonald, 248 U. S. 185; Nelson v. Rhine Shipping
Co., 248 U. S. 205.
So it uniformly has been held that the acts prohibiting
the bringing of Chinese laborers to the United States are
not violated by a foreign vessel coming into one of our
ports with Chinese as seamen or members of the crew.
In re Moncan, 14 Fed. 44; United States v. Ah Fook, 183
Fed. 33; United States v. Burke, 99 Fed. 895; United
States v. Jamieson, 185 Fed. 165; appeal dismissed 223
U. S. 744.
See Taylor v. United States, 207 U. S. 120; Scharrenberg v. DollarS. S. Co., 245 U. S. 122.
The executive departments also always have exercised
like care in avoiding such interpretative application of
statutes as unnecessarily to interfere with international
commercial relations. 27 Ops. Atty. Gen. 440.
The care which Congress used to exclude opium from
our territorial waters serves also to point out the underlying distinction between the situation there existing and
the facts of the instant case. Section 5 of the Opium Act
dealt only with smoking opium, which had no legitimate
uses and which for years had been considered an international outlaw, the mere presence of which within their
borders was considered intolerable by all civilized nations.
Here, on the other hand, it appears from an examination
of the National Prohibition Act that Congress has permitted the possession and use of intoxicating beverages
in the homes of our people if acquired prior to the effective
date thereof. The act also repeatedly recognizes as legal
the existence of large quantities of bonded liquor within
the United States, as also the manufacture, sale and trans-

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

Argument for Appellants.

portation of intoxicating liquor for other than beverage
purposes (§ 3 and § 37 of Tit. II). It cannot, therefore,
be said that the National Prohibition Act imposes an
unqualified prohibition,still less can it be said that Congress intended to prevent the mere presence within our
borders of intoxicating beverages under any and all circumstances; for the act itself proves a contrary intention.
Congress has not only failed to use language sufficient to
indicate that liquor could not be possessed within our
borders for any purpose, but, under the system of qualified
prohibition imposed by the act, there was no reason why
it should prohibit the presence of such liquor within our
territorial waters as an incidental element to the continuation of international commerce, sanctioned by the usage
and custom of civilized nations since the inception of our
Government. In marked contrast with thi., also, is the
record of congressional action respecting the subject under
consideration in the cases at bar. From the date of the
enactment of the National Prohibition Act, foreign ships
had been bringing into American waters and ports liquors
as a part of the ships' stores, for consumption by passengers and crew on the high seas, with the approval and
subject to regulations promulgated by the Treasury Department, in conformity with international usage and the
uniform course of American law and regulation from the
foundation of the Government. This was a matter of
newspaper notoriety and general knowledge. Treasury
decisions had been promulgated which sanctioned the
practice, and the Attorney General of the United States
had declared its legality and laid down the rules under
which it should be conducted. And yet, in the legislation of 1921, by which Congress sought to strengthen the
law in other directions and to clothe the courts of the
Territory of Hawaii and the Virgin Islands with jurisdiction to enforce the act, no mention was made of this
subject and no attempt to broaden the scope of the law,

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

262 U. S.

so as to apply it to foreign vessels in American ports. It
seems incredible that, if Congress had intended to apply
prohibition to foreign merchant ships, it would not have
expressed such intention in the amending act. The fact
that it did not, furnishes strong evidence that it had no
intention of interfering with the well established usages
of international commerce. This moreover is emphasized
by the fact that § 5 of the amending act expressly dealt
with the application of prohibition to common carriers by
land and sea.
It is important to note in this connection that the provisions of the Transportation Act of 1920 are expressly
applicable to foreign merchant vessels; and yet, neither
the framers of the act, nor those who discussed it on the
floors of Congress, suggested that the amending act should
be broadened so as to make it clear that the possession
by a foreign common carrier by vessel within American
waters of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes, was
prohibited by our laws.
When Congress legislated with respect to intoxicating
liquors in the Territory of Alaska, by Act of February 14,
1917, 39 Stat. 903, it clearly expressed its intention to
apply prohibition to vessels within the territorial waters.
So in dealing with the Canal Zone, Congress, unrestricted by the limitations of the Constitution or the
Eighteenth Amendment, but legislating as a domestic legislature, enacted § 20, Tit. III, of the National Prohibition
Law. It will be noted that this prohibition went far
beyond the Amendment or the National Prohibition Act.
It not only prohibited the importation but the introduction into the Canal Zone. It absolutely prohibited possession by an individual or his having under his control
any of the described beverages. Then, in order to emphasize its intention that these extreme measures should not
be extended so as to interfere with foreign commercial
intercourse, it added the proviso.

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

Argument for Appellants.

The provisions affecting the Canal Zone in the National
Prohibition Act are not included in the general provisions
relating to the United States, but in a specific section
incorporated in the act to deal with that place. Section
20, Tit. III, places the Canal Zone in a special position.
It will be noted that Congress has not said in the proviso
that the act shall not apply to liquor in transit through
the Panama Canal or on the Panama Railroad, but that
"this section" shall not apply. In other words, as the
language of the section goes far beyond the confines of the
Amendment and the act, Congress deemed it necessary.
to disclaim the application of its provisions, that is, the
provisions of the section, to commerce passing through
the Zone. And, therefore, it cannot be that by referring
in § 20 to the carriage on the Panama Canal and on the
Panama Railroad, Congress intended that no other transportation of liquor anywhere within the United States,
or its possessions, was authorized except through the
Canal Zone. The proviso completes the legislation by
Congress respecting the Zone, but it has no bearing on the
interpretation of the act itself in its application to the
United States. It does illustrate the care which Congress
has taken in this act, as in so many others, to avoid the
implication of legislation affecting foreign merchant vessels, save and except in the particulars where its deliberate
and expressed policy was to apply legislation to those
ships.
IV. Sea stores on nerchant ships are considered as
part of the ship itself and always have been exempted
from tariff and other laws affecting merchandise introduced into the country. 21 Ops. Atty. Gen. 92, 94; Rev.
Stats., § 2807, amended by Act June 3, 1892, 27 Stat. 41;.
United States v. 24 Coils of Cordage, Fed. Cas. No.
16,566; United States v. One Hempen Cable, Fed. Cas.
No. 15,931a; Treasury Circular Dec. 4, 1922; Brough v.
Whitmore, 4 Term. Rep. 206; The Dundee, 1 Hagg. Adm.

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

262 U. S.

109; Gale v. Laurie, 5 B. & C. 156; English Marine Insurance Act 1906, Arnould Marine Insurance, 10th ed.,
vol. 2, p. 1659; id. vol. 1, p. 295.
A further proof of the incorporation of stores into the
ship is the fact that they are valued by surveyors, when
valuing the ship for general average contribution, as part
of the contributory value of the ship. Lowndes, General
Average, § 76. It is also a very interesting fact that, in
the case of many European nations, a separate list of
ship's stores is considered as part of the ship's papers, in
addition to the ordinary cargo manifest. In this connection see Atherly Jones on Commerce in War, pp. 347-352.
United States v. Hawley & Letzerich, 160 Fed. 734.
The laws of Italy, France, and Holland require merchant ships trading with their ports to carry and furnish
liquors for the consumption of passengers and crew. In
those cases, liquors are necessaries within the meaning
of the admiralty law. See The Satellite, 188 Fed. 717.
It was, therefore, in pursuance of a long applied doctrine of sea law and the consistent legislative policy that,
after the adoption of the Eighteenth Amendment and
the pa ssage of the National Prohibition Act, the Treasury Department promulgated regulations covering sea
stores of liquors which have been in force up to the present time. The new opinion of the Attorney General, and
the decision of the District Court in the present cases,
present to this Court the question of whether or not the
necessary construction of the Prohibition Law overrules
this consistent, uniform, continued policy of our Government, and, disregarding all international comity, imposes
our domestic regulations upon all foreign vessels coming
into our ports.
V. Even if the foreign steamships within American
ports or waters should be considered as territory subject
to the jurisdiction of the United States, nevertheless the
carriage of intoxicating liquors as part of their sea stores,

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

Argument for Appellants.

under the circumstances described in the bill, is not a
violation of the Amendment or the statute.
It is well settled law, that the carriage of ship stores
on board a foreign vessel coming into ports of the United
States, and on its departure therefrom, is neither importation into, nor exportation from, the United States. Swan
& Finch Co. v. United States, 190 U. S. 143, 144; The
Conqueror, 49 Fed. 99, 102; affd. 166 U. S. 110.
That the carriage of liquors from one point to another
within the United States may not amount to transportation within the prohibition of the Amendment and the
statute, is recognized in Street v. Lincoln Safe Deposit
Co., 254 U. S. 88. United States v. 254 Bottles of Intoxicating Liquor, 281 Fed. 247.
The Amendment does not make mere possession of intoxicating liquors unlawful. Its prohibition applies only
when one lawfully in possession when the Amendment
took effect seeks to sell or transport it within the United
States, etc., or to export it therefrom, for beverage purposes. If the National Prohibition Act goes beyond this,
it exceeds the authority conferred upon Congress by the
Amendment. We do not construe it as going beyond the
Amendment. The act, recognizing the lawfulness of
possession of liquors in a private dwelling, makes possession elsewhere only prima fade evidence that it is possessed for an unlawful purpose, and this evidence, of
course, is open to rebuttal by the facts of the case.
The actual basis of Corneli v. Moore, 257 U. S. 491, is
stated in the Grogan Case, 259 U. S. 80.
In the cases at bar, the liquors are in the strictest sense
in the lawful possession of the owners of the steamships,
and they remain immovable within the ship as a part of
its sea stores, in effect as a part of the ship, in the same
sense in which a cable which had been bought in Liverpool by the master of an American vessel, to replace an old
51826°-23----8

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

262 U. S.

one worn out, was held to be a part of the ship and not to
be treated as imported goods, wares or merchandise, in
the case of United States v. A Chain Cable, 2 Sumner,.
362; Fed. Cas. 14,776.
The movement of these liquors within our territorial
waters, moreover, can in no proper sense be deemed a
" transportation" in any accepted sense of the word. The
universal and practical conception of transportation, as
applied to any article or commodity under any circumstances, presupposes a carrier of some kind or description
separate and distinct from the article or thing transported. Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S.
196, 203.
In the present case there is not any separation of the
sea stores from the ship. They are incorporated as it were
into the body of the ship. Properly considered, sea
stores are really aids to transportation rather than the
subject matter thereof. While, of course, all parts of the
vessel, including masts, spars, tackle and apparel, as well
as sea stores, necessarily move with her when she moves,
they are not being transported in the sense of that word as
understood by our statutes or case law. It is submitted
that the transportation prohibited by the Eighteenth
Amendment and the National Prohibition Act is transportation in a commercial sense. Undoubtedly this was
present in both the Groganand Anchor Line Cases.
Specific reference to the question of transportation is
found in §§ 13 and 14 of Tit. II of the act, and here Congress considers the question in some detail by requiring
the carriers to mark the consignors' and consignees' names
on the outside of all packages, in addition to making clear
the contents.
Under the Street Case, supra, the conveyance from
warehouse to residence was held not to be transportation
within the act, because the goods were in the owner's possession in a leased room in a warehouse, and in effect

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

Argument for Appellants.

merely transferred by him to his residence. In the Corneli Case a different result was reached because the goods
were in possession of the warehouse, and the transfer
thereof involved commercial transportation of and delivery to the owner at the latter's residence. Sea stores
like bunker coal, belong to the ship owner and are on
board his vessel solely for consumption therein. They
are not received from any shipper nor are they to be
delivered to any consignee, and transportation is not the
purpose of their presence on shipboard. They are
brought within the territorial waters of the United States
merely because it is unavoidable under the circumstances.
If the National Prohibition Act goes beyond the limits
of the Amendment, and prohibits mere possession, it is
unsupported by the Constitution, and, to that extent at
least, unenforceable. While the language of § 3, Tit. II,
does prohibit any person to "possess any intoxicating liquor except as authorized in this act," read in
connection with § 33, Tit. II, such unauthorized possession would appear only to be prima fade evidence of
possession for one of the illegal purposes prescribed in the
act, and not in and of itself to be punishable. That this
construction is correct is emphasized by the provisions of
§ 20, Tit. III, where the congressional intention clearly.
expressed with respect to the Canal Zone is to make possession in and of itself a crime, as also to prohibit, not only
the technical " importation" into the Zone, but the introduction of liquor into that specific territory. Not only,
too, is possession prohibited, but it is made a crime to
have "under one's control within the Canal Zone" any
of the specified beverages.
If it be suggested that the Prohibition Act, § 33, Tit. II,
makes the possession of liquors by any person not legally.
permitted by its provisions to possess liquor, evidence
that such liquor is kept for purposes prohibited by the
statute, the answer is that it is only prima facie evidence
of that fact.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellant in No. 693.

262 U. S.

It is our contention that the cases of liquor carried as

part of ship stores in foreign merchant vessels, also fairly
fall within the obvious implication of § 33, Tit. II, and
that an intention to confiscate the private property in
these liquors and to extend the jurisdiction of an act
which is, in the most emphatic sense of the term, a domestic police regulation, over the internal concerns of
foreign ships, and thus indirectly to foist our laws and
our conception of the proper use of alcohol- for beverage
purposes, over the people of other Nations whose usages
and laws differ from ours, has not been expressed by the
Eighteenth Amendment nor by Congress.
Mr. Cletus Keating, with whom Mr. John M. Woolsey, Mr. J. ParkerKirlin and Mr. Ira A. Campbell were
on the brief, for appellant in No. 693.
I. The District Judge erred in holding that intoxicating liquors which have been legally acquired and
which are kept and used only as sea stores by vessels
of the United States are within the purview of the Eighteenth Amendment.
Sea stores are consumable provisions kept on board a
vessel as part of her equipment for the maintenance of
her passengers and crew.
Intoxicating liquors, having the status of sea stores
and their situs on board a vessel, do not come within any
of the prohibitions of the Eighteenth Amendment, although kept on board a vessel of the United States
within territorial waters of the United States.
Intoxicating liquors incorporated as sea stores on a
vessel, are not the subject of "importation into" the
United States.
When a- vessel passes out of our territorial waters, sea
stores are not the subject of "exportation from" the
United States.
Intoxicating liquors incorporated into sea stores,
whilst kept on board a vessel of the United States, mov-

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

Argument for Appellant in No. 693.

ing in territorial waters, are not the subject of "transportation within" the United States.
The possession of intoxicating liquors, lawfully acquired and kept sealed a8 sea stores, is legal within the
territorial waters of the United States.
II. The District Judge erred in holding that vessels
of the United States on the high seas and in foreign
ports are territory subject to the jurisdiction of the
United States, within the meaning of the Eighteenth
Amendment, and subject to the penalties of the National Prohibition Act, and hence were not free to
sell intoxicating liquors on the high seas and in foreign
ports.
The Eighteenth Amendment was not necessary to give
Congress power to legislate for lands subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and not included among the
several States, or for vessels of the United States engaged
in foreign or coastwise commerce.
Vessels of the United States are not "territory subject
to the jurisdiction of the United States" within the meaning of the Eighteenth Amendment, nor are they subject
to the National Prohibition Act.
The National Prohibition Act does not by its terms apply and was not intended to apply to vessels of the United
States on the high seas or in foreign ports.
III. The unnecessary adoption of a fiction in constitutional construction that would attribute to the word "territory" as used in the Eighteenth Amendment a meaning
which would include vessels of the United States upon
the high seas and in foreign ports, would lead to embarrassing international situations.
" IV. Neither the history nor purpose of the Eighteenth
Amendment and its enforcement acts indicates any intention on the part of Congress to extend prohibition to vessels of the United States while on the high seas or in
foreign ports.

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants in No. 694.

262 U. S.

In considering whether Congress intended that vessels
of the United States should be considered " territory"
within the meaning of the Amendment and the enforcement acts, § 20 of the National Prohibition Act is of great
importance.
It seems hardly conceivable that Congress would place
an additional obstacle in the way of the establishment of
an American merchant marine, when the additional
burden imposed was not essential to carry out the fundamental purposes of the prohibition reform. Vessels of
the United States engaged in foreign trade go to all parts
of the world, and are in competition with ships of foreign
nations. The construction of the Amendment and the
enforcement acts here contended for would not constitute
an interference or limitation upon what everyone realizes
is a great national reform.
Mr. Reid L. Carr, with whom Mr. George Adams Ellis
and Mr. FrederickH. Stokes were on the brief, for appellants in No. 694.
The word "territory" as employed in the Eighteenth
Amendment must be construed according to the meaning
fixed upon it in our constitutional history.
A ship is not territory, within the meaning of the
Eighteenth Amendment or the enforcing legislation.
As a matter of statutory construction, the Prohibition
Acts negative the intention of Congress to extend their
operation to vessels of the United States on the high seas
or in foreign ports.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mrs. Mabel Walker
Willebrandt, Assistant Attorney General, with whom Mr,
Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on the briefs, for appellees.
Mr. Andrew Wilson and Mr. Wayne B. Wheeler, by
leave of court, filed a brief as amici curiae.

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These are suits by steamship companies operating passenger ships between United States ports and foreign
ports to enjoin threatened application to them and their
ships of certain provisions of the National Prohibition
Act. The defendants are officers of the United States
charged with the act's enforcement. In the first ten
cases the plaintiffs are foreign corporations and their
ships are of foreign registry, while in the remaining .two
the plaintiffs are domestic corporations and their ships
are of United States registry. All the ships have long
carried and now carry, as part of their sea stores, intoxicating liquors intended to be sold or dispensed to their
passengers and crews at meals and otherwise for beverage
purposes. Many of the passengers and crews are accustomed to using such beverages and insist that the ships
carry and supply liquors for such purposes. By the laws
of all the foreign ports at which the ships touch this is
permitted and by the laws of some it is required. The
liquors are purchased for the ships and taken on board
in the foreign ports and are sold or dispensed in the
course of all voyages, whether from or to those ports.
The administrative instructions dealing with the subject have varied since the National Prohibition Act went
into effect. December 11, 1919, the following instructions were issued (T. D. 38218):
"All liquors which are prohibited importation, but
which are properly listed as sea stores on vessels arriving in ports of the United States, should be placed under
seal by the boarding officer and kept sealed during the
entire time of the vessel's stay in port, no part thereof
to be removed from under seal for use by the crew at.
meals or for any other purpose.
"Excessive or surplus liquor stores are no longer dutiable, being prohibited importation, but are subject to
seizure and forfeiture.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

"Liquors properly carried as sea stores may be returned
to a foreign port on the vessel's changing from the
foreign to the coasting trade, or may be transferred under
supervision of the customs officers from a vessel in foreign trade, delayed in port for any cause, to another
vessel belonging to the same line or owner."
January 27, 1920, the first paragraph of those instructions was changed (T. D. 38248) so as to read:
"All liquors which are prohibited importation, but
which are properly listed as sea stores on American vessels' arriving in ports of the United States, should be
placed under seal by the boarding officer and kept sealed
during the entire time of the vessel's stay in port, no part
thereof to be removed from under seal for use by the crew
at meals or for any other purpose. All such liquors on
foreign vessels should be sealed on arrival of the vessels
in port, and such portions thereof released from seal as
may be required from time to time for use by the officers
and crew."
October 6, 1922, the Attorney General, in answer to
an inquiry by the Secretary of the Treasury, gave an
opinion to the effect that the National Prohibition Act,
construed in connection with the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution, makes it unlawful (a) for any
ship, whether domestic or foreign, to bring into territorial waters of the United States, or to carry while within
such waters, intoxicating liquors intended for beverage
purposes, whether as sea stores or cargo, and (b) for any
domestic ship even when without those waters to carry
such liquors for such purposes either as cargo or sea
stores. The President thereupon directed the preparation, promulgation and application of new instructions
conforming to that construction of the act. Being advised of this and that under the new instructions the
defendants would seize all liquors carried in contravention of the act as so construed and would proceed to sub-

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

Opinion of the Court.

ject the plaintiffs and their ships to penalties provided
in the act, the plaintiffs brought these suits.
The hearings in the District Court were on the bills
or amended bills, motions to dismiss and answers, and
there was a decree of dismissal on the merits in each suit.
284 Fed. 890; 285 Fed. 79. Direct appeals under Judicial Code, § 238, bring the cases here.
While the construction and application of the National
Prohibition Act is the ultimate matter in controversy,
the act is so closely related to the Eighteenth Amendment, to enforce which it was enacted, that a right understanding of it involves an examination and interpretation
of the Amendment. The first section of the latter declares, 40 Stat. 1050, 1941:
"Section 1. After one year from the ratification of this
article the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors within, the importation thereof into, or the
exportation thereof from the United States and all territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage purposes is hereby prohibited."
These words, if taken in their ordinary sense, are very
plain. The articles proscribed are intoxicating liquors
for beverage purposes. The-acts prohibited in respect
of them are manufacture, sale and transportation within
a designated field, importation into the same, and exportation therefrom. And the designated field is the
United States and all territory subject to its jurisdiction.
There is no controversy here as to what constitutes intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes; but opposing
contentions are made respecting what is comprehended
in the terms " transportation," "importation" and "territory."
Some of the contentions ascribe a technical meaning
to the words "transportation" and "importation." We
think they are to be taken in their ordinary sense, for it
better comports with the object to be attained. In that

122

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

sense transportation comprehends any real carrying
about or from one place to another. It is not essential
that the carrying be for hire, or by one for another; nor
that it be incidental to a transfer of the possession or
title. If one carries in his own conveyance for his own
purposes it is transportation no less than when a public
carrier at the instance of a consignor carries and delivers
to a consignee for a stipulated charge. See United States
v. Simpson, 252 U. S. 465. Importation, in a like sense,
consists in bringing an article into a" country from the
outside. If there be an actual bringing in it is :importation regardless of the mode in which it is effected. Entry through a custom house is not of the essence of the
act.
Various meanings are sought to be attributed to the
term "territory" in the phrase "the United States and
all territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof." We are
of opinion that it means the regional areas--of land and
adjacent waters-over which the United States claims
and exercises dominion and control as a sovereign power.
The immediate context and the purport of the entire section show that the term is used in a physical and not a
metaphorical sense,-that it refers to areas or districts
having fixity of location and recognized boundaries. See
United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat, 336, 390.
It now is settled in the United States and recognized
elsewhere that the territory subject to its jurisdiction
includes the land areas under its dominion and control,
the ports, harbors, bays and other enclosed arms of the
sea along its coast and a marginal belt of the sea extending from the coast line outward a marine league, or three
geographic miles. Church v. Hubbart, 2 Cranch, 187,
234; The Ann, 1 Fed. Cas., p. 926; United States v.
Smiley, 27 Fed. Cas., p. 1132; Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S. 240, 257-258; Louisiana v. Mississippi,
202 U. S. 1, 52; 1 Kent's Com., 12th ed., *29; 1 Moore

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

Opinion of the Court.

International Law Digest, § 145; 1 Hyde International
Law, §§ 141, 142, 154; Wilson International Law, 8th ed.,
§ 54; Westlake International Law, 2d ed., p. 187, et seq;
Wheaton International Law, 5th Eng. ed. (Phillipson),
p. 282; 1 Oppenheim International Law, 3d ed., §§ 185189, 252. This, we hold, is the territory which the
Amendment designates as its field of operation; and the
designation is not of a part of this territory but of "all"
of it.
The defendants contend that the Amendment also
covers domestic merchant ships outside the waters of the
United States, whether on the high seas or in foreign
waters. But it does not say so, and what it does say
shows, as we have indicated, that it is confined to the
physical territory of the United States. In support of
their contention the defendants refer to the statement
sometimes made that a merchant ship is a part of the
territory of the country whose flag she flies. But this, as
has been aptly observed, is a figure of speech, a metaphor.
charrenbergv. DollarS. S. Co., 245 U. S. 122, 127; In re
Ross, 140 U. S. 453, 464; 1 Moore International Law
Digest, § 174; Westlake International Law, 2d ed., p. 264;
Hall International Law, 7th ed. (Higgins), § 76; Manning Law of Nations (Amos), p. 276; Piggott Nationality, Pt. II, p. 13. The jurisdiction which it is intended
to describe arises out of the nationality of the ship, as
established by her domicile, registry and use of the flag,
and partakes more of the characteristics of personal than
of territorial sovereignty. See The Hamilton, 207 U. S.
398, 403; American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co., 213
U. S. 347, 355; 1 Oppenheim International Law, 3d ed.,
§§ 123-125, 128. It is chiefly applicable to ships on the
high seas, where there is no territorial sovereign; and as
respects ships in foreign territorial waters it has little
application beyond what is affirmatively or tacitly permitted by the local sovereign. 2 Moore International

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

Law Digest, §§ 204, 205; Twiss Law of Nations, 2d ed.,
§ 166; Woolsey International Law, 6th ed., § 58; 1 Oppenheim International Law, 3d ed., §§ 128, 146, 260.
The defendants further contend that the Amendment
covers foreign merchant ships when within the territorial
waters of the United States. Of course, if it were true
that a ship is a part of the territory of the country whose
flag she carries, the contention would fail. But, as that
is a fiction, we think the contention is right.
A merchant ship of one country voluntarily entering
the territorial limits of another subjects herself to the
jurisdiction of the latter. The jurisdiction attaches in
virtue of her presence, just as with other objects within
those limits. During her stay she is entitled to the protection of the laws of that place and correlatively is
bound to yield obedience to them. Of course, the local
sovereign may out of considerations of public policy
choose to forego the exertion of its jurisdiction or to exert
the same in only a limited way, but this is a matter resting solely in its discretion. The rule, now generally recognized, is nowhere better stated than in The Exchange,
7 Cranch, 116, 136, 144, where Chief Justice Marshall;
speaking for this Court, said:
"The jurisdiction of the nation within its own territory
is necessarily exclusive and absolute. It is susceptible
of no limitation not imposed by itself. Any restriction
upon it, deriving validity from an external source, would
imply a diminution of its sovereignty to the extent of the
restriction, and an investment of that sovereignty to the
same extent in that power which could impose such restriction.
"All exceptions, therefore, to the full and complete
power of a nation, within its own territories, must be
traced up to the consent of the nation itself. They can
flow from no other legitimate source.

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

Opinion of the Court.

"When private individuals of one nation spread themselves through another, as business or caprice may direct,
mingling indiscriminately with the inhabitants of that
other, or when merchant vessels enter for the purposes of
trade, it would be obviously inconvenient and dangerous
to society, and would subject the laws to continual infraction, and the government to degradation, if such individuals or merchants did not owe temporary and local
allegiance, and were not amenable to the jurisdiction of
the country. Nor can the foreign sovereign have any motive for wishing such exemption. His subjects thus passing into foreign countries, are not .employed by him, nor
are they engaged in national pursuits. Consequently,
there are powerful motives for not exempting persons of
this description from the jurisdiction of the country in
which they are found, and no one motive for requiring it.
The implied license, therefore, under which they enter,
can never be construed to grant such exemption."
That view has been reaffirmed and applied by this
Court on several occasions. United States v. Diekelman,
92 U. S. 520, 525, 526; Wildenhu's Case, 120 U. S. 1, 11;
Nishimura Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651, 659;
Knott v. Botany Mills, 179 U. S. 69, 74; Patterson v.
Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169, 176, 178; Strathearn S. S.
Co. v. Dillon, 252 U. S. 348, 355-356. And see Buttfield
v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470, 492-493; Oceanic Steam
Navigation Co. v. Stranahan, 214 U. S. 320, 324; Brolan
v. United States, 236 U. S. 216, 218. In the Patterson
Case the Court added:
"Indeed, the implied consent to permit them [foreign
merchant ships] to enter our harbors may be withdrawn,
and if this implied consent may be wholly withdrawn it
may be extended upon .such terms and conditions as the
government sees fit to impose."
In principle, therefore, it is settled that the Amendment could be made to cover both domestic and foreign

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

merchant ships when within the territorial waters of the
United States. And we think it has been made to cover
both when within those limits. It contains no exception
of ships of either class and the terms in which it is couched
indicate that none is intended. Such an exception would
tend to embarrass its enforcement and to defeat the
attainment of its obvious purpose, and therefore cannot
reasonably be regarded as implied.
In itself the Amendment does not prescribe any penalties, forfeitures or mode of enforcement, but by its
second section I leaves these to legislative action.
With this understanding of the Amendment, we turn
to the National Prohibition Act, c. 85, 41 Stat. 305,
which was enacted to enforce it. The act is a long one
and most of its provisions have no real bearing here. Its
scope and pervading purpose are fairly reflected by the
following excerpts from Title II:
"See. 3. No person 2 shall on or after the date when
the eighteenth amendment to the Constitution of the
United States goes into effect, manufacture, sell, barter,
transport, import, export, deliver, furnish or possess any
intoxicating liquor except as authorized in this Act, and
all provisions of this Act shall be liberally construed to
the end that the use of intoxicating liquor as a beverage
may be prevented.
"See. 21. Any room, house, building, boat, vehicle,
structure, or place where intoxicating liquor is manufactured, sold, kept, or bartered in violation of this title,
and all intoxicating liquor and property kept afid used
'The second section says: "The Congress and the several States
shall have concurrent power to enforce this article by appropriate
legislation." For its construction, see United States v. Lanza, 260
U. S. 377.
'The act contains a provision (§ 1 of Title II) showing that it
uses the word "person" as including "associations, copartnerships,
and corporations" when the context does not indicate otherwise.

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

Opinion of the Court.

in maintaining the same, is hereby declared, to.be a common nuisance....
"Sec. 23. That any person who shall, with intent to
effect a sale of liquor, by himself, his employee, servant, or agent, for himself or any person, company
or corporation, keep or carry around on his person,
or in a vehicle, or other conveyance whatever,
any liquor
in violation of 'this title is guilty of

a nuisance
"Sec. 26. When the commissioner, his assistants, inspectors, or any officer of the law shall discover any person in the act of transporting in violation of the law,
intoxicating liquors in any wagon, buggy, automobile,
water or air craft, or other vehicle, it shall be his duty
to seize any and all intoxicating liquors found therein
being transported contrary to law.
"
Other provisions show that various penalties and forfeitures are prescribed for violations of the act; and
that the only instance in which the possession of intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes is recognized as lawful is where the liquor was obtained before the act went
in effect and is kept in the owner's dwelling for use therein
by him, his family, and his bona fide guests.
As originally enacted 'the act did not in terms define
its territorial field, but a supplemental provision I afterwards enacted declares that it "shall apply not only to
the United States but to all territory subject to its jurisdiction," which means that its field coincides with that of
the Eighteenth Amendment. There is in the act no provision making it applicable to domestic merchant ships
when outside the waters of the United States, nor any
provision making it inapplicable to merchant ships, either.
domestic or foreign, when within those waters, save in
the Panama Canal. There is a special provision dealing
'Section 3, Act November 23, 1921, c. 134, 42 Stat. 222.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

with the Canal Zone' which excepts "liquor in transit
through the Panama Canal or on the Panama Railroad."
The exception does not discriminate between domestic
and foreign ships, but applies to all liquor in transit
through the canal, whether on domestic or foreign ships.
Apart from this exception, the provision relating to the
Canal Zone is broad and drastic like the others.
Much has been said at the bar and in the briefs about
the Canal Zone exception, and various deductions are
sought to be drawn from it respecting the applicability
of the act elsewhere. Of course the exception shows that
Congress, for reasons appealing to its judgment, has refrained from attaching any penalty or forfeiture to the
transportation of liquor while " in transit through the
Panama Canal or on the Panama Railroad." Beyond this
it has no bearing here, save as itserves to show that where
in other provisions no exception is made in respect of
merchant ships, either doniestic or foreign, within the
waters of the United States, none is intended.
Examining the act as a whole, we think it shows very
plainly, first, that it is intended to be operative throughout the. territorial limits of the United States, with the
single exception stated in the Canal Zone provision; secondly, that it is not intended to apply to domestic vessels
when outside the territorial waters of the United States,
'The pertinent portion of § 20 of Title III, relating to the Canal
Zone, is as follows:
"See. 20. That it shall be unlawful to import or introduce into the

Canal Zone, or to manufacture, sell, give away, dispose of, transport,
or have in one's possession or under one's control within the Canal
Zone, any alcoholic, fermented, brewed, distilled, vinous, malt, or
spirituous liquors, except for sacramental, scientific, pharmaceutical,
industrial, or medicinal purposes, under regulations to be made by
the President, and any such liquors within the Canal Zone in violation hereof shall be forfeited to the United States and seized: Provided, That this section shall not apply to liquor in transit through
the Panama Canal or on the Panama Railroad."

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
Opinion of the Court.

100

and, thirdly, that it is intended to apply to all merchant
vessels, whether foreign or domestic, when within those
waters, save as the Panama Canal Zone exception provides otherwise.
In so saying we do not mean to imply that Congress
is without power to regulate the conduct of domestic merchant ships when on the high seas, or to exert such control over them when in foreign waters as may be affirmatively or tacitly permitted by the territorial sovereign;
for it long has been settled that Congress does have such
power over them. Lord v. Steamship Co., 102 U. S. 541;
The Abby Dodge, 223,U. S. 166, 176. But we do mean
that the National Prohibition Act discloses that it is intended only to enforce the Eighteenth Amendment and
limits its field of operation, like that of the Amendment,
to the territorial limits of the United States.
The plaintiffs invite attention to data showing the antiquity of the practice of carrying intoxicating liquors for
beverage purposes as part of a ship's sea stores, the wide
extent of the practice and its recognitioi in a congressional enactment, and argue therefrom that neither the
Amendment nor the act can have been intended to disturb that practice. But in this they fail to recognize that
the avowed and obvious purpose of both the Amendment
and the act was to put an end to prior practices respecting such liquors, even though the practices had the sanction of antiquity, generality and statutory recognition.
Like data could be produced and like arguments advanced
by many whose business, recognized as lawful theretofore,
was shut down or curtailed by the change in national
policy. In principle the plaintiffs' situation is not different from that of the innkeeper whose accustomed privilege of selling liquor to his guests is taken away, or thatof the dining-car proprietor who is prevented from serving liquor to those who use the cars which he operates
to and fro across our northern and southern boundaries.
51826*-23..-9

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

It should be added that after the adoption 6f the
Amendment and the enactment of the National Prohibition Act Congress distinctly withdrew the prior statutory
recognition of liquors as legitimate sea stores. The recognition was embodied in § 2775 of the Revised Statutes,
which was among the provisions dealing with customs administration, and when, by the Act of September 21, 1922,
those provisions were revised, that section was expressly
repealed along with other provisions recognizing liquors
as legitimate cargo. C. 356, Title IV and § 642, 42 Stat.
858, 948, 989. Of course, as was observed by the District
Court, the prior recognition, although representing the
national policy at the time, was not in the nature of a
promise for the future.
It therefore is of no importance that the liquors in the
plaintiffs' ships are carried only as sea stores. Being sea
stores does not make them liquors any the less; nor does
it change the incidents of their use as beverages. But it
is of importance that they are carried through the territorial waters otk the United States and brought into its
ports and harbors. This is prohibited transportation and
importation in the sense of the Amendment and the act.
The recent cases of Grogan v. Walker & Sons and Anchor
Line v. Aldridge, 259 U. S. 80, axe practically conclusive
on the point. The question in one was whether carrying
liquor intended as a beverage through the United States
from Canada to Mexico was prohibited transportation
under the Amendment and the act, the liquor being
carried in bond by rail, and that in the other was whether
the transshipment of such liquor from one British ship
to another in the harbor of New York was similarly prohibited, the liquor being in transit from Scotland to Bermuda. The cases were considered together and an
affirmative answer was given in each, the Court saying in
the opinion, p. 89:
"The Eighteenth Amendment meant a great revolution in the policy of this country, and presumably and

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

Opinion of the Court.

obviously meant to upset a good many things on as well
as off the statute book. It did not confine itself in any
meticulous way to the use of intoxicants in this country.
It forbade export for beverage purposes elsewhere. True
this discouraged production here, but that was forbidden
already, and the provision applied to liquors already lawfully made. See Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries &
Warehouse Co., 251 U. S. 146, 151, n. 1. It is obvious
that those whose wishes and opinions were embodied in
the Amendment meant to stop the whole business.
They did not want intoxicating liquor in the United
States and reasonably may have thought that if they let
it in some of it was likely to stay. When, therefore, the
Amendment forbids not only importation into and exportation from the United States but transportation
within it, the natural meaning of the words expresses an
altogether probable intent. The Prohibition Act only
fortifies in this respect the interpretation of the Amendment itself. The manufacture, possession, sale and
transportation of spirits and wine for other than beverage
purposes are.provided for in the act, but there is no provision for transshipment or carriage across the country
from without. When Congress was ready to permit such
a transit for special reasons, in the Canal Zone, it permitted it in express words. Title III, § 20, 41 Stat. 322."
Our conclusion is that in the first ten cases-those involving foreign ships--the decrees of dismissal were
right and should be affirmed, and in the remaining twothose involving domestic ships--the decrees of dismissal
were erroneous and should be reversed with directions to
enter decrees refusing any relief as respects the operations of the ships within the territorial waters of the
United States and awarding the relief sought as respects
operations outside those waters.
Decrees in Nos. 659, 660, 661, 662, 666, 667, 668, 669,
Affirmed.
670 and 678,
Reversed.
Decrees in Nos. 693 and 694,

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
SUTHERLAND, J.,

dissenting.

262 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, dissents.
MR. JUSTICE

SUTHERLAND,

dissenting.

I agree with the judgment of the Court in so far as it
affects domestic ships, but I am unable to accept the view
that the Eighteenth Amendment applies to foreign ships
coming into our ports under the circumstances here dis-

closed.
It would serve no useful purpose to give my reasons at
any length for this conclusion. I therefore state them
very generally and briefly.
The general rule of international law is that a foreign
ship is so far identified with the country to which it belongs that its internal affairs, whose effect is confined to
the ship, ordinarily are not subjected to interference at
the hands of another State in whose ports it is temporarily
present, 2 Moore, Int. Law Dig., p. 292; United States v.
Rodgers, 150 U. S. 249, 260; Wildenhus's Case, 120 U. S.
1, 12; and, as said by Chief Justice Marshall, in Murray
v. Schooner Charming Betsy, 2 Cranch, 64, 118: "
an act of Congress ought never to be construed to violate
the law of nations, if any other possible construction remains.
.
That the Government has full power under the Volstead
Act to prevent the landing or transshipment from foreign
vessels of intoxicating liquors or their use in our ports, is
not doubted, and, therefore, it may provide for such
assurances and safeguards as it may deem necessary to
those ends. Nor do I doubt the power of Congress to do
all that the Court now holds has been done by that act,
but such power exists not under the Eighteenth Amendment, to whose provisions the act is confined, but by
virtue of other provisions of the Constitution, which Congress here has not attempted to exercise. With great deference to the contrary conclusion of the Court, due regard
for the principles of international comity, which exist be-

CUNARD S. S. CO. v. MELLON.
100

SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

tween friendly nations, in my opinion, forbids the construction of the Eighteenth Amendment and of the act
which the present decision advances. Moreover, the
Eighteenth Amendment, it must not be forgotten, confers
concurrent power of enforcement upon the several States,
and it follows that if the General Government possesses
the power here claimed for it under that Amendment, the
several States within their respective boundaries, possess
the same power. It does not seem. possible to me that
Congress, in submitting the Amendment or the several
States in adopting it, could have intended to vest in the
various seaboard States a power so intimately connected
with our foreign relations and whose exercise might result
in international confusion and embarrassment.
In adopting the Eighteenth Amendment and in enacting the Volstead Act the question of their application to
foreign vessels in the circumstances now presented does
not appear to have been in mind. If, upon consideration,
Congress shall conclude that when such vessels, in good
faith carrying liquor among their sea stores, come temporarily into our ports their officers should, ipso facto,
become liable to drastic punishment and the ships themselves subject to forfeiture, it will be a simple matter for
that body to say so in plain terms. But interference with
the purely internal affairs of a foreign ship is of so delicate a nature, so full of possibilities of international misunderstandings and so likely to ipvite retaliation that an
affirmative conclusion in respect thereof should rest upon
nothing less than the clearly expressed intention of Congress to that effect, and this I am unable to find in the
legislation here under review.

