CURTIS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209

Syllabus.

It is pressed upon us, however, that this language in
Atkins & Co. v. Moore and in Baldwin Co. v. Howard
Company, was not necessary to the conclusion in those
cases and is to be regarded as obiter dictum. It was used
in arguendo and was the unanimous expression of the
Court in both cases. It may be that the conclusion that
the decision of the Court of Appeals was not final and
appealable to this Court could have been reached without
this argument; but, however this may be, the construction put by the Court on § 9 is most persuasive and follows so clearly from the decision in Gandy v. Marble,
that we find no reason to question its correctness.
An argument has been made to us against giving such
an effect to § 9 based on the intrinsic differences between
the nature of the patent right, and that in a trade-mark.
We do not regard such differences as important in interpreting § 9 when it is obvious from that section and the
whole of the Trade Mark Act that Congress intended to
produce a parallelism in the mode of securing these two
kinds of government monopoly from the Patent Office.
The decree of the District Court is reversed and the
case is remanded for further proceedings.
CURTIS, COLLINS & HOLBROOK COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
(And Twenty-three Other Cases.)
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 341, and Nos. 342-364. Argued April 9, 10, 1923.-Decided
May 21, 1923.
1. Where stockholders of a corporation, imposing no
than that the paper titles should be passed on
attorney, entrusted another stockholder, who was
dent and active manager of the company, with

safeguard other
by a reputable
also vice presithe business of

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

procuring title to lands, to be patented under the Timber and
Stone Act, for which he was to be paid a stated sum per acre, and
where lands were so procured, by means of frauds on the act,
of which the person thus acting as agent for all had knowledge,
and by means of conveyances from the fraudulent entrymen to a
naked trustee and from the trustee to the corporation, held, that
the knowledge of the agent was imputable to the corporation and
all its shareholders, and that the defense of bona fide purchaser
was not available to the corporation in a suit by the United
States to annul the patents because of the fraud. P. 221.
2. Where an agent employed to procure titles to land, procures it,
contrary to his instructions, through a fraud practiced on the
owner, the fact that the agent has an adverse or independent
interest in that, having a share in the adventure, his own profits
will increase with the number of titles procured, cannot save his
principal from imputation of the agent's knowledge in a suit by
the landowner to set aside the conveyances because of the fraud.
P. 223. American National Bank v. Miller, 229 U. S. 517, distinguished.
3. The defense of bona fide purchaser is an affirmative one, and the
burden of sustaining it rests upon the party who asserts it.
P. 225.
275 Fed. 670 and 674, affirmed.

In November, 1912, the United States filed seventynine bills in the District Court of the United States for
the Northern District of California, seeking to set aside
patents for land in the Susanville land district in California, issued by it under the Timber & Stone Act (Act of
Congress, June 3, 1878, c. 151, 20 Stat. 89, as amended by
Act of August 4, 1892, c. 375, § 2, 27 Stat. 348), to various
patentees and by them conveyed to one Gregory, and by
him to the Curtis, Collins & Holbrook Company, a corporation of California, on the ground that the patents had
been obtained by fraud. The entries were filed and the
patents were issued in the last six months of the year
1902, and shortly thereafter. The cases were consolidated
into groups, were referred to a Master who reported at
length, finding that, as to the seventy-nine patents, only
twenty-four had been obtained in fraud of the United

CURTIS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
215

Statement of the Case.

States and in violation of the statute, but that as to all
of these, the Curtis, Collins & Holbrook Company was a
bona fide purchaser for value without notice of the fraud.
The District Court sustained the findings of the Master
and dismissed the bills. The United States then prosecuted appeals as to the twenty-four patents whose issue
had been found by the Master to have been obtained by
fraud, to reverse the finding by the Master and the District Court, that the Curtis, Collins & Holbrook Company
was a bona fide purchaser without notice of the fraud.
The Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit, to
which the appeals were taken, found with the Government on this issue, reversed the decree of the District
Court in the twenty-four cases, and remanded them with
direction to cancel the patents. The Curtis, Collins &
Holbrook Company has now prosecuted appeals to this
Court in all these twenty-four cases, under § 241 of the
Judicial Code. The parties, as the Master did below, selected as a typical case, of the twenty-four cases in which
fraud was found, the patent issued to one Edward L.
Cooksey. That has been argued in this Court, with the
understanding that the other twenty-three cases are to
abide the decree in this, because the facts, so far as notice
of the fraud is concerned, are substantially the same.
In 1901, persons owning lands within the limits of the
National Forests, could convey them to the United States
and select in lieu thereof, and secure title by patent to,
timber lands belonging to the United States outside of
the forest reservations. One Tuman and C. H. Holbrook
agreed to seek capitalists and induce them to purchase
lands in forest reservations and exchange them for timber
land outside. Tuman was a cruiser who had prepared a
list of desirable lieu lands which could be selected. In
December, 1901, Holbrook made a contract with Curtis
and Collins by which he agreed to sell to them at $7.50 an
acre forty-two thousand acres of timber land in Cali-

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

fornia-described in a schedule-title to which Holbrook
was to obtain by conveying to the United States lands of
the same amount in National Forest reservations. The
forest reservation lands were to be conveyed to Thompson, trustee, by the owners, who were to be paid upon
request of Holbrook and on an attorney's certificate of
title, not exceeding $5.00 an acre, to be paid by the Bank
of California out of a fund of $200,000 deposited with it
by Curtis and Collins. The trustee was then to make
application for the lieu lands described in the list and
when he had acquired title he was, upon notice from
Holbrook that he had been paid, to convey to Curtis and
Collins or to anyone to whom, they directed. After the
title to the whole amount had been acquired, Holbrook
was to receive the balance of the price for the lands
amounting to more than $115,000, partly in cash and
promissory notes and in 789 shares of stock in a corporation of California to be formed with 5,000 shares of $100
par value each, to which the lands were to be conveyed.
Curtis and Collins were to receive 3,156 shares, 1,844
shares remaining in the treasury, out of which Holbrook's
shares were to be taken. Holbrook was to be a director
and vice-president and general manager. If Holbrook
could not secure the whole of the 42,000 acres from the
forest reserve rights, he was given the right to obtain it
through any other legal means or source.
Holbrook and his son, with Tuman's assistance, procured the whole 42,000 acres in lieu of forest reservation
lands. Holbrook reported to Curtis and Collins that
forest reservation lands had become scarce and expensive
and suggested that there were valuable timber lands
which could be secured under the Stone & Timber Law
ubi supra. Under this law, land belonging to the United
States, valued chiefly for timber or stone, and unfit for
cultivation, in quantities not exceeding 160 acres, could
be sold to a citizen of the United States at a minimum

CURTIS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
215

Statement of the Case.

price of $2.50 an acre. But any person seeking such land
was required to file with the register of the proper district a written statement, under oath, in duplicate, setting forth a number of necessary facts concerning the
land and also that he "has made no other application
under this act; that he does not apply to purchase the
same on speculation, but in good faith to appropriate it
to his own exclusive use and benefit; and that he has
not, directly or indirectly, made any agreement or contract, in any way or manner, with any person or persons
whatsoever, by which the title which he might acquire
from the government of the United States should inure,
in whole or in part, to the benefit of any person except
himself."
Curtis and Collins accepted Holbrook's suggestion as to
the Stone & Timber Law, and it was orally agreed that
about 30,000 acres should be thus acquired and that Holbrook was to be paid $10.00 an acre. The entries in this
and the other twenty-three cases were procured by agents
of Tuman, who made entries under an agreement to convey the lands to anyone he might direct, he paying all
the expenses and $100 for each entry, and the entrymen
making false oaths in violation of the statute. The land
thus entered was conveyed by the entrymen to one
Gregory whose name was used with his consent as trustee
by Tuman and Holbrook. Gregory neither paid nor received any money and merely acted as a conduit for the
titles. All the stone and timber entries were filed in
the last six months of 1902, and the deeds to Gregory
were made soon after proof by the entrymen, but were
not recorded until 1904. The Curtis, Collins & Holbrook Company was organized in accord with the terms
of the original contract, August 14, 1902, the incorporators being J.G. Curtis and his son, D. G. Curtis,
T. D. Collins and his son, E. S. Collins, Charles H. Holbrook, and his son, Charles H. Holbrook, Jr., and Irving

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

F. Moulton. Gregory conveyed to this corporation the
interests conveyed to him by the entrymen at different
times up to 1904, but none of the deeds to the corporation
was recorded until October, 1909, and some were not
recorded until 1910 and 1911.
Curtis and Collins lived in Pennsylvania but they, together with Tuman and Holbrook, went out to look at
the lands in 1902, after the contract was made. D. G.
Curtis, who was treasurer of the Company, also frequently went upon the lands. Young Curtis testified
that he talked much with Holbrook who managed the
Company and did everything in connection with the acquisition of these lands by it and that they all had the
utmost confidence in his getting them good titles.
Tuman and Holbrook fell out as to the division of the
profit between them. Collins, Sr., effected a compromise
whereby Tuman received 200 shares in the Company and
$10,000 cash; and after this litigation was begun Collins paid Tuman $750 a share for this stock, although
it was twice what it was worth as Collins admitted.
Tuman was a witness and testified that he told HolUrook
what he had done in procuring the entries to be made
and in paying expenses and the $100 apiece to the entrymen, and there was evidence strongly tending to show
that the money used to pay these expenses came from
an account in a San Francisco bank, opened by Holbrook
in the name of Collins and Holbrook, upon which checks
were drawn in favor of an account in Holbrook's name
in a bank at Susanville upon which Tuman drew checks
for this work. There was no evidence that Collins knew
of the San Francisco account in the name of Collins and
Holbrook. There was evidence that in 1904 and 1906,
land office agents were investigating the validity of entries made as to other lands suspected of having been
sold in advance to the Curtis, Collins & Holbrook Company, and that Tuman, Holbrook and Collins talked over

CURTIS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
215

Opinion of the Court.

the matter, and that Collins agreed they were lost and
"that was all there was to it."
Mr. Charles A. Shurtleff, with whom Mr. Robert B.
Gaylord and Mr. Morris R. Clark were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. S. W. Williams, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck and
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter were on the brief,
for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT, after stating the case as
above, delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court of Appeals attached importance to
the conduct of Collins toward Tuman and the compromise made between him and Holbrook, to his willingness
to abandon other titles secured by Holbrook when questioned, and to the long delay in recording the deeds to the
Company (Linn & Lane Timber Co. v. United States, 236
U. S. 574, 576) as suspicious circumstances indicating a
consciousness on the part of the capitalists in the Company that the titles of the Company to the lands here in
question were vulnerable because of the practices of Holbrook and Tuman. Without minimizing the significance
of these circumstances, we put our concurrence in the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals on the other ground
stated by that court.
While the contract of December, 1921, called it a sale
of 42,000 acres of forest reservation lieu lands by Holbrook to Curtis and Collins, we think that in the light of
all the circumstances, it was rather a contract of agency
and joint adventure by which Holbrook was to procure
the land for his principals at a stipulated profit for himself, they to furnish the money with which he could make
the purchases for them. Even if the written contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

would not bear this construction, the practical construction by the parties justifies it; and this is especially true
of the subsequent oral contract under which the additional 30,000 acres of stone and timber land was to be
purchased. The title to the land was never put in Holbrook, or in Curtis and Collins. Through a naked trustee,
it was conveyed directly from the entrymen to the Company. The whole procedure under the Stone & Timber
Act was entrusted by Curtis and Collins to the initiation
and execution of Holbrook as the manager and vice president of the Company, in which Curtis and Collins had
three-fifths interest, and Holbrook had one-sixth. The
only safeguard imposed was that a reputable attorney was
to pass on the paper title. The Company was in being
and under the active management of Holbrook when
these entries were being made and final proof submitted.
Holbrook knew of the fraud practiced on the Government
in making the entries, because Tuman says that he told
him, and the circumstances as to the payment of money
for expenses and bonuses out of moneys furnished by
Holbrook confirms his complicity in it.
Under these circumstances, we do not think the Company can be treated as a bona fide purchaser. It is
charged with Holbrook's knowledge because he was the
sole actor for the Company in procuring the fraudulent
patents. It sufficiently appears that young Curtis, the
treasurer of the Company, and Curtis and Collins, the
capitalists, understood the difference there was between
the procedure and limitations attending the acquisition
of title to lands under the Forest Reservation Act and
under the Stone & Timber Law, and that they depended
wholly on Holbrook to secure a good title under the latter
act.
The general rule is that a principal is charged with the
knowledge of the agent acquired by the agent in the
course of the principal's business. Here the business was

CURTIS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
215

Opinion of the Court.

the acquisition of land patented by the Government under the Stone & Timber Act. The Company and all its
stockholders were charged with notice of any facts impairing the titles, of which in securing them, Holbrook was
advised. In other words, the Company in taking over the
titles took them cum onere. Hovey v. Blanchard, 13
N. H. 145; Warren v. Hayes, 74 N. H. 355; Atlantic Cotton Mills v. Indian Orchard Mills, 147 Mass. 268, 273;
Bank of New Milford v. Town of New Milford, 36 Conn.
93' 101; Holden v. New York & Erie Bank, 72 N. Y. 286,
294; First National Bank v. Dunbar, 118 Ill. 625, 632;
Fouche v. Merchants National Bank, 110 Ga. 827, 848;
Wilson v. Pauly, 72 Fed. 129, 135; Mechem on Agency,
2d ed., Vol. 2, § 1818.
Appellants seek to avoid the application of this principle by asserting an exception to it when the agent's attitude is one adverse in interest to that of the principal, because of which it can not be inferred that the agent would
communicate the facts against his own interest to his
principal. The case relied on to establish this exception
is that of American National Bank v. Miller, 229 U. S.
517. In that case one who was president of a bank at
Macon, Georgia, owed his own bank $3,000, and paid it by
a check on a Nashville bank in which he was a depositor,
but which he owed $50,000. The Nashville bank received
the check from the Macon bank for collection and then
credited the Macon bank with the amount and sent a
letter advising the Macon bank. The president of the
Macon bank was insolvent "nd a petition of involuntary
bankruptcy was filed against him the day his check was
credited by the Nashville bank. The Nashville bank
sought to charge off the credit to the Macon bank on the
ground that that bank was chargeable with notice of its
president's insolvency. We held that such knowledge
could not be imputed to the Macon bank merely because
the president knew it, for the reason that it was not to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

inferred that he would communicate such knowledge to
his own bank.
We do not think the case applicable here. The president of the Macon bank was engaged in something in
which his interest was plainly independent of any agency
of his on behalf of his bank. His payment of his note
was his own business, and not the bank's as his principal.
In the case at bar, Holbrook was the sole agent acting
for the Company in securing titles to land for it. It is
true that the more titles he got the more profit he would
make out of the agency, and we may assume that as
between him and the Company in securing fraudulent
titles for the Company, he was violating his instructions;
but he and the Company were in a common adventure,
and if the Company insists on retaining the fruits of that
adventure, it must be charged with the knowledge of the
agent through whom the fruits came. The interest of
Collins, Curtis and Holbrook in the acquisition of the
titles was common. Curtis and Collins knew exactly how
far Holbrook's interest was adverse to theirs, but trusted
him in the joint enterprise notwithstanding. The adverse
interests as between them in sharing the fruits of the
common business can not enable the Company to retain
its share and repudiate the agent with all he knew. This
view is sustained by the authorities above cited; it was
taken by the Circuit Court of Appeals and we concur
in it.
Appellant relies on the cases of the United States v.
Detroit Timber & Lumber Co., 200 U. S. 321, and United
States v. Clark, 200 U. S. 601, to justify the plea of bona
fide purchase in this case. The facts in those cases were
different from the facts in the case before us. In the
Detroit Company Case, there was no question of agency
at all. It was the purchase by one company from another
and it was sought to charge the purchasing company with
knowledge of the vendor's violations of the statute by

CURTIS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
215

225

Opinion of the Court.

assuming that if the purchaser had looked into its books
it might have inferred something irregular. The Court
held that there was nothing to put the purchaser on such
an inquiry. In the Clark Case, Clark bought outright
from Cobban by direct warranty deeds lands patented
under the Stone & Timber Act. It did appear that Cobban had negotiations with Clark before Cobban acquired
title to some of the land, and it further appeared that
Clark lent money to Cobban secured by mortgage on
land and timber owned by Cobban to enable him to buy
additional land. But this Court and the two lower courts
held that Clark and Cobban dealt at arm's length. We
found expressly that the claim that Cobban was Clark's
agent broke down.
These two cases were seemingly relied upon by the
Master and the District Court to show that the defense
of bona fide purchaser is not an affirmative defense, the
burden of sustaining which is on the defendant; but such
a construction of those cases is refuted by the express
ruling of this Court in Wright-Blodgett Co. v. United
States, 236 U. S. 397.
We think the case before us comes within the class of
cases of which McCaskill Co. v. United States, 216 U. S.
504, and United States v. Kettenbach, 208 Fed. 209, 219,
are instances.
Decree affirmed in this and the other twenty-three cases.
51826-23-15

