138

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

part, of the stock in either of the new Texas companies
and to invest the proceeds otherwise. By such a sale,
and change of investments, all interest of the holding
company in the original enterprise might be parted with,
without, in any way, affecting the rights of its own stockholders. When the trustees in liquidation distributed
the securities in the three new corporations, Cullinan, in
a legal sense, realized his gain; and became taxable on it
as income for the year 1916.
Affirmed.

YUMA COUNTY WATER USERS' ASSOCIATION
ET AL. v. SCHLECHT ET.AL.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
NINTH

FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

No. 268. Argued February 28, 1923.-Decided April 30, 1923.
1. Preliminary, tentative opinions of the cost of constructing projected irrigation works, expressed by government engineers and
officials in official correspondence and in statements at a meeting
of prospective water-users, do not constitute the estimate of cost,
or the public notice, required by § 4 of the Reclamation Act, and,
though relied upon by the water-users in subjecting their lands to
the project, do not bind or estop the Government from afterwards
ficing the construction charges against the lands pursuant to the
statute, in accordance with a higher estimate arrived at in the light
of further investigation and experience. P. 143.
2. The Reclamation Act, § 4, contemplates a precise and formal public notice, stating the lands irrigable under a project, the limit of
area for each entry, the charges per acre, the number of annual
instalments, and the time when payments shall commence. P. 144.
3. The determination by the Secretary of the Interior of the practicability of a project and the making of the construction contracts
are conditions precedent to the estimate of cost and the public
notice, under § 4 of the act. P. 145.
4. The time within which the notice shall be given, after the occurrence of these conditions, is left to the sound discretion of the
Secretary; and he may delay the notice while the question of cost
remains in doubt. P. 145.

YUMA WATER ASSN. v. SCHLECHT.
138

139

Opinion of the Court.

5. A contract between the Government and a water-users' association
provided for payment of the first instalment of charges at the time
of completion of proposed works, and reserved the right of the
Secretary of the Interior to make such changes of the plans "as
further investigations and circumstances" might "dictate to be
requisite for the public welfare ". Held, that the works were not
to be deemed incomplete either (a) because a small part of the
drainage system was unfinished, the effectiveness of the system not
being thereby detracted from, or (b) because two of three tracts
which the Government undertook to reclaim were eliminated by the
Secretary, in the exercise of his discretion, greater areas having
been substituted which more than counterbalanced any injury that
otherwise might have resulted to complaining water-users in the
matter of increased assessments. P. 146.
6. Concurrent findings of fact of the District Court and the Circuit
Court ot Appeals, sustaining a determination of the Secretary of
the Interior that reclamation works had been completed when
public notice was given under § 4 of the Reclamation Act, must be
accepted by this Court, in absence of clear error. P. 146.
275 Fed. 885, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals

affirming a decree of the District Court, which dismissed,
upon the merits, a suit to restrain officials of the Reclama-

tion Service from taking steps toward the enforcement of
charges for construction cost, under the Reclamation Act.
Mr. Thomas D. Molloy for appellants.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Beck was on the brief, for appellees.
M. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.

The Yuma County Water Users' Association is a corporation organized primarily to represent the settlers on
the Yuma Irrigation Project in Arizona in their dealings
with the Government. The other appellants are shareholders and owners of tracts of land under the project.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

On April 8, 1904, the Secretary of the Interior received
the report of a board of consulting engineers, made at
his request, giving alternative estimates of the cost of
the project, and recommending that $3,000,000 be set
aside for construction. This report was followed by a
letter from the Director of the Geological Survey, joining
in the recommendation and, among other things, saying:
"In general the reports indicate that by means of
construction of a dam across Colorado River and other
works, it will be possible to reclaim upwards of 85,000
acres of land at a cost of less than $40 per acre.
"The land is extremely fertile in character, the climate
is somewhat tropical, and the products have such value
per acre that it is believed that the cost of $40 per acre is
not prohibitive.
"There are a large number of alternatives to be considered and difficult problems to be solved, but the matter
has developed from the engineering side to a point where
it is possible to consider the larger features and to set
aside provisionally a sufficient sum of money to carry
out the work contingent upon satisfactory arrangements
being made with the owners of lands and vested rights
and the complete solution of other matters now pending."
The Secretary, on May 10, 1904, replied approving the
recommendation. Correspondence ensued between the
Water Users' Association and the officials of the Reclamation Service, and on May 28, 1904, a meeting between
them was had. It does not seem necessary to give the
details of this correspondence or of the meeting. It suffices to say that, throughout, the officials declared that
in their opinion the project would cost at the rate of
about $35 per acre, and the water users joined in the enterprise under that belief. True, it was stated that this
sum might be increased or lessened as the work progressed and the opinion was otherwise qualified; but it
was evidently thought that the cost would not depart

YUMA WATER ASSN. v. SCHLECHT.
138

141

Opinion of the Court.

from the figures given to any great extent one way or the
other. Thereupon the land owners subscribed for shares
in the association, binding themselves to pay the cost of
the project in proportion to their interests and pledging
their lands as security to that end.
On May 31, 1906, the association, acting for its shareholders, entered into an agreement with the Government
by which it was stipulated: that the Secretary should
determine the number of acres capable of irrigation under
the project; that payments should, be divided into not
less than ten equal annual installments, the first payable
at the time of the completion of the works, or within
a reasonable time thereaftei and after due notice from the
Secretary; and that the cost per acre should be equal
throughout the district. And the association agrees
"that it will promptly collect or require prompt payment
in such manner as the Secretary of the Interior may
direct, and hereby guarantees the payments for that part
of the cost of the irrigation works, which shall be apportioned by the Secretary of the Interior to its shareholders.
. ." The contract is silent as to the amount
of the cost and nowhere suggests that it had already been
fixed.
It does not appear that a definite plan of construction
was determined upon until after the meeting in 1904; the
report of the engineers contains no estimate in respect
of the works as they were finally constructed; and no construction contract was made until June, 1905. In the
process of construction, great and unexpected difficulties
were encountered. The contractors finding themselves
unable to proceed, abandoned their contract and the
Government was forced to take upon itself the burden
of completing the work. The ultimate cost was more
than double what had been anticipated. The project
was finally completed, as found by both lower courts, on
April 6, 1917, and on that date public notice was given

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

by the Secretary, imposing upon the water users a construction charge of $75 per acre. This notice complies
with the provisions of § 4 of the Reclamation Act, 32 Stat.
388, 389, c. 1093, printed in the margin.1
Appellants (plaintiffs) brought suit in the United
States District Court for the District of Arizona to enjoin the defendants , who were officials of the Reclamation
Service, from putting into operation the determination
of the Secretary so as to exact a greater sum than $35.28
per acre. The court, after a trial, found in favor of the
Government and dismissed the bill and its action was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals (275 Fed. 885), from
whose decree the case comes here by appeal.
The pleadings are voluminous, much testimony was
taken at the trial and a large number of errors have been
assigned. After eliminating from consideration those
matters which are clearly immaterial or without merit,
two questions remain. They are:
"Sec. 4. That upon the determination by the Secretary of the
Interior that any irrigation project is practicable, he may cause to
be let contracts for the construction -of the same, in such portions or
sections as it may be practicable to construct and complete as parts
of the whole project, providing the necessary funds for such portions or sections are available in the reclamation fund, and thereupon he shall give public notice of the lands irrigable under such
project, and limit of area per entry, which limit shall represent
the acreage which, in the opinion of the Secretary, may be reasonably required for the support of a family upon the lands in question;
also of the charges which shall be made per acre upon the said
entries, and upon lands in private ownership which may be irrigated by the waters of the said irrigation project, and the number
of annual installments, not exceeding ten, in which such charges
shall be paid and the time when such payments shall commence.
The said charges shall be determined with a view of returning to
the reclamation fund the estimated cost of construction of the
project, and shall be apportioned equitably: Provided, That in all
construction work eight hours shall constitute a day's work, and no
Mongolian labor shall be employed thereon."

YUMA WATER ASSN. v. SCHLECHT.
138

143

Opinion of the Court.

(1) Whether the report, correspondence and statements made in 1904 constituted an estimate of the cost
of the project and a public notice, under the terms of § 4;
and, if not, whether the notice of 1917 may be so regarded?
(2) Whethr the project was completed on April 6,
1917, within the meaning of the contract of 1906?
First. It is contended by appellants that the report of
the engineers, the correspondence among the officials and
with the Water Users' Association and the statements
made at the meeting in 1904, taken together, constitute
an estimate of cost binding on the Government, and,
though informal, a compliance with § 4 as to public
notice. That it was the firm belief of the government
officials that the cost of the project would not greatly, if
at all, exceed $35 an acre, and that their opinion to that
effect was given to the Water Users' Association, by the
documents and statements referred to, does not admit of
doubt. It seems clear that the water users relied upon
these expressions of opinion, and it may be assumed that
if they had known in the beginning that the cost was to
be as much as $75 per acre they would not have gone
forward with the enterprise. But however confidently
these opinions were expressed and however much they
may have influenced the water users, the attendant circumstances, the language employed and the statutory
requirements all preclude the idea that they constituted
an estimate of the cost as contemplated by the statute.
No element of fraud or bad faith is shown or suggested.
The Reclamation Act sets aside all money received from
the sale and disposal of public lands in certain States and
Territories named for the reclamation of the arid lands
therein; and this fund is to be kept intact as nearly as
possible by collecting from the water users under each
project the estimated cost of the construction thereof.
See Swigart v. Baker, 229 U. S. 187, 197. The extent to
which the fund will be preserved, obviously, will depend

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

upon the accuracy of the estimate, and this in turn, will
depend upon the care exercised in securing information
upon which to base it. Investigation as to the feasibility of any project, opinions of experts and collection
of data relating to the question of cost must precede
such an estimate, and § 4, moreover, requires that the
charges against water users shall not be assessed until
after construction contracts shall have been made, the
evident purpose being to put the Secretary in possession of the data furnished by the contracts themselves before he acts in that respect. Prior to the making .of the
construction contracts, opinions expressed by engineers
or officials may be estimates in one sense, but they are
tentative and preliminary and cannot be regarded as constituting the required statutory estimate, though contributing to the basic facts upon which it is made. See
Payette-Boise Water Users' Ass'n. v. Cole, 263 Fed. 734,
738-739. The statute contemplates a precise and formal
public notice which must state the lands irrigable under
the project, the limit of area for each entry, the charges
to be made per acre, the number of annual installments
and the time when the payments shall commence. The
opinions, correspondence and statements relied upon do
not fulfill the statutory requirements and we must hold
that the Government is neither bound nor estopped by
them. Utah Power & Light Co. v. United States, 243
U. S. 389, 408-409; Pine River Logging Co. v. United
States, 186 U. S. 279, 291; Whiteside v. United States,
93 U. S. 247, 256-257; The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall.
666, 676; Filor v. United States, 9 Wall. 45, 49; Hart v.
United States, 95 U. S. 316; Lee v. Munro, 7 Cranch,
366. Moreover, the contract of 1906, made subsequently,
expressly provides for payment on the part of the water
users "for that part of the cost of the irrigation works
which shall be apportioned by the Secretary of the Interior to its shareholders." Plainly this looked forward to

YUMA WATER ASSN. v. SCHLECHT.
138

Opinion of the Court.

future action on his.part and did not rest upon any action
already taken.
Following the provisions requiring the Secretary to
determine the practicability of the project and to make
construction contracts the words are "and thereupon he
shall give public notice," etc. The word "thereupon" is
construed by appellants as an adverb of time, meaning
immediately thereafter. But this is only one of its uses.
It is employed more frequently to express the relation of
cause or of condition precedent. It is in the latter sense
that it is used here, and its meaning is that the determination as to the practicability of the project and the making
of contracts are precedent conditions to the estimate of
cost and public notice. See Porphyry Paving Co. v.
Ancker, 104 Cal. 340, 342. The notice must follow the
coming into existence of the conditions. The time thereafter within which it shall be given is left, and from the
nature of the matter must be left, to the discretion of the
Secretary, and whether that discretion has been unreasonably exercised will depend upon the circumstances of ch
case. Here it is made plain that performance of the construction contract became impossible and the same was
abandoned. Acting upon its judgment, which so far as
the record shows was not unreasonable, the Government
then itself undertook the completion of the work. Physical conditions not originally foreseen were encountered,
presenting difficulties and requiring increased.expenditures
of great magnitude. It does not appear that these expenditures were made unnecessarily or improvidently; nor
is there anything in the record to indicate that the work
was not done with reasonable expedition. The uncertainties arising from the newly discovered conditions, the
abandonment of the construction work by the contractors,
the changes which were necessitated in the original plans,
and the unexpected turn of events in other respects, left
the question of cost in such doubt as to justify withholding
51826°-2--10

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

the public notice until it could rest on more definite information. The delay, it is true, was long continued but,
under all the circumstances, we cannot say as a matter
of law, that it was undue or that the Secretary's discretion
in respect of the time was unreasonably exercised.
Second. The contract of May 31, 1906, provides that
the first installment shall be payable at the time of the
completion of the proposed works, and appellants contend
that in two respects they were not completed on April 6,
1917, when the public notice was given: (1) that complete
drainage for one of the tracts was not provided, and (2)
that only one of three tracts which the Government promised to reclaim was reclaimed.
As to the first point, it is sufficient to say .that the testimony shows that the contemplated drainage was substantially completed, and fails to show that the small portion left undone detracted in any way from the effectiveness of the system.
As to the second point, the original plans disclose that
it was the intention to reclaim the three tracts mentioned,
but the Secretary reserved the right to make such changes
"as further investigations and circumstances may dictate
to be requisite for the public welfare." The elimination,
therefore, of the two tracts was within his discretion.
Moreover, while these tracts were not reclaimed, other
lands of greater area were added to the project which
much more than counterbalanced any injury to the water
users here concerned that might otherwise have resulted
from the omission. The Secretary determined that the
project had been completed when the public notice was
given and both lower courts concurred in the same finding.
These findings will be accepted here in the absence of clear
error, which the record before us does not show. Bodkin
v. Edwards, 255 U. S.221; Brewer-Elliott Oil & Gas Co. v.
United States, 260 U. S.77.
The decree of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

