OCTOBER TERM, 1906.

.428

Argument for .Appellants.

206 U. S.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. TIFT.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 60i.

Argued April 22, 23, 1907.-Decided May .27, 1907.

Although an' action at law for damages to recover unreasonable railroad rates
which have been exacted in accordance with the schedule of rates as filed
is forbidden by the Interstate Commerce Act (Texas & ?acific Railway Co.
v. Abilene Cotton Co., 204 U. S. 426), the Circuit Court may entertain jurisdiction of a bill in equity to restrain the filing or enforcement of a schedule
of unreasonable rates or a change to unjust or unreasonable rates.
Where, as in'this case, the Circuit Court granted no relief on the original bill
prejudicial to the railway corhpany, but sent the parties to the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and afterwards rendered a decree based upon the
findings and conclusions of that commission and testimony adduced before
it, which was stipulated into the case, this court will not reverse the decree,
as affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, ither because the Circuit
Court was without jurisdiction, or because an order of reference in the
case was too broad in fequi'ing the master to ascertain the amounts paid
by shippers in increased rates after the schedules sought to be enjoined
went into effect.
Although reparation for excess rates must be obtained in a proceeding before
the Interstate Commerce Commission, the parties to an action brought
under § 16 of the Interstate Commerce Act may stipulate after the com*mission has declared the rate complained of to be excessive that the court
adjudge the amount of reparation, and presumably, after the master has
reported; t40 court will make the reparation adequate for the injury and
award only the advance on the old rate and to those who are parties to
the cause.

The facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Ed. Baxter for appellants:
The, "findings of fact" made by the Commission in the
case at barare not conclusive.
The inquiry made by the Commission in this case was not
conducted on a proper basis; it was not made upon a full
consideration of all the circumstances and conditions upon

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. TIFT.
206 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

which a legiti'iiate order could be founded; and it was unduly
restricted in its scope. T. & P. Ry. v. I. C. C., 162 U. S. 235.
The fact that the court is authorized to "hear and determine
the matter as a court of equity" necessarily implies that the
court is not concluded by the findings or. conclusions of the
Commission. There is power in the Circuit Court, and the
Circuit Court of Appeals "to consider and apply the evidence,"
and in this court to review their decisions. T. & P. Ry.
v. I. C. C., 162 U. S. 239; I. C. C. v. Ala. Midland Ry., 168
U. S. 175; I. C. C. v. A., T. & S. F. R. Co., 50 Fed. Rep. 304;
I. C. C. v. L. V. R. Co., 49 Fed. Rep. 180; K. & I. Bridge
Co. v. L. & N. R. R., 37 Fed. Rep. 613, 614.
The finding made by the Commission on a mixed question
of law and fact is not entitled to as much weight as the general
verdict of a jury.
Whether a rate is reasonable, is a question of "fact." C. N.
0. & T. P. Ry. v. I. C. C., 162 U. S. 196; T. & P. Ry. v. I. C. C.,
i62 U. S. 219, 227, 235, 238; L. & N. R. R. v. Behlmer, 175
U. S. 676; E. T. V. & G. Ry. v. I. C. C., 181 U. S. 28.
But whether a rate is reasonable is not a question of "pure
fact;" it is a question of "fact mixed with law."
. The finding made by the Commission on a mixed question
of law and fact is not entitled to as much weight as the general
finding of a.' court.
When the parties waive a jury, under § 4 of the act of
March 3, 1865, a general finding of the court upon the facts
has the same effect as the general verdict of a jury; and where
the general finding of a court includes a mixed question of law
and fact, it is as conclusive as the general verdict of a jury,
except so far as the matter of law involved in the question
may be saved by some exception which the party has taken
to the ruling of the court on the law.. Norris v. Jackson,
9 Wall. 127; 128; Miller v. Life Ins. Co., 12 Wall. 297.
But, where the finding of a trial court is general, either
party may readily obtain the judgment of the Appellate Court
on any matter of law that may be involved in a mixed question

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for.Appelanta.

206 U. S.

of law and fact, in one of four ways: Either party may object
to the admission or exclusion of evidence and require the
trial courtto rule onthe objection. Or either party may present
tothe trial court his propositions of law and require the court
to rule on them. Or 'either party may ask for definite ruling
by the court as to whether all the evidence is sufficient in law
to warrant a finding in his favor. Or either party may get the
trial court to" make a special finding, which raises the legal
propositions. Norris V. Jackson, 9 Wall. 128, 129; Miller v.
Life Ins. Co., 12 Wall. 297; Martinton v. Fairbanks,112 U. S.'
672, 673..
'When. the verdict of a jury is special, or the finding of facts
by a' court is special, such a verdict, or finding, ."raises the
legal propositions" involved in a mixed question of law and
fact, and the prower of review by this court extends "to the
determination of the sufficiency of the facts found to support
the judgment."' :Norris v. Jackson, 9 Wall., 128, 129; Miller v.
Life Ins. Co., 12 Wall. 297; zMartinton v. Fairbanks, 112 U. S.
672, 673.
Whether the verdict of a jury or. the finding of a court begeneral or special, either party can compel the separation of
matter of law from.matter of fact involved in a mixed question'
:of law and fact, and demand the judgment of the court upon
so much of the question as consists of matter of law. But
according to the contention of appellee, the finding of the
Commission' on .the mixed question of law and fact as to the
reasonableness 6f a rate is conclusive on the matter of law
involved in the question, and neither this nor any- other court
can review the judgment of the Commission, on such matter
of law. To paraphrase the language of this court in C. M. &c.
Ry. v. Tompkiis, 176 U. S. 172, when we recall that, as estimated, over ten thousand millions of dollars are invested in
railroad property, the proposition that such a vast- amount
.of property is beyond the protecting principle which insures
to everyone else the judgment of the courts upon all questions
of law, is one which cannot be tolerated.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. TIFT.
206 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Mr. William Hepburn Russell and Mr. William A. Wimbish,
with whom Mr. W. D, Ellis was on the brief, for appellees:
The Interstate Commerce Commission had power to adjudge the advanced rate unreasonable and the Circuit Court
had jurisdiction to enforce the order of the Commission by
injunction and a decree for an accounting. Tex. & Pac. Ry.
Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, N. Y. N. H. & Hartford R. R. Co. v. Interstate Com. Com., 200 U. S. 361.
There was no attempt in the case at bar to fix a rate. But
the Commission decided that the advanced rate was unreasonable and ordered it discontinued, and this decision was enforced
by the decree of the Circuit Court. Hence the procedure in
this case is in full accord with the decisions of this court.
Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Abilene Oil Co., supra; C. N. 0. & T.
P Ry. Co. v. Interstate Com. Com., 162 U. S. 184, 196; Interstate Com. Com. v. C. N. 0. & T. P. Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 479, 499,
505; Beale & Wyman R. R. Rate Regulation, § 1046.
On such state of the record, that equity had jurisdiction to
order the reference, take an account and decree restitution,
is clear upon settled principles of equity jurisdiction. 1
Pomeroy's Eq. Jurisp. (3d ed.), § 181 ; Peck v. School Dist.,
21 Wisconsin, 516, 523; United States v. Union Pacific Ry.
Co., 160 U. S. 1, 52.
Jurisdiction in equity being acquired for the purposes of an
injunction to prevent' the enforcement of the advanced rates,
the court, in order to avoid a multiplicity of suits, can proceed
to a decree that will settle all matters in dispute between the
complainants and the railroad companies. United States v.
Union Pacific Ry. Co;, 160 U. S. 1, 50, 52; Chicago, M. & St.
P. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, 460. Nor is there an
adequate remedy at law. Van Patten v. Chicago, M. & St. P.
Ry. Co., 81 Fed. Rep. 545, 551.
Even if the Circuit Court was without primary jurisdiction
in this case to enjoin the enforcement of the advanced rates
and decree reparation through an accounting, it acquired
secondary jurisdiction, justifying the final decree herein under

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument fQr Appellees.

206 U. S.

the petition based on the order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission and the stipulations of the defendants as "to what
decree might be entered and what reparation would be made.
Both the Interstate Commerce Commission! and the Circuit
Court had power to determine that the advance in rates was
unreasonable, and the court had jurisdiction to prevent the
enforcement of the rate by injunction, both before and after
the order of 'the Commission directing the discontinuance of
the rate as unreasonable. Act to Regulate Commerce, §§ 1, 16,
22; In re Lennon, 166 U. S. 548.
The courts have power to pAss on the reasonableness or unreasonableness of railroad freight rates. Covington &c. Turnpike Co.-v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578, 579.
"A legislature has power to fix rates, and the extent of
judicial interference is protection against unreasonable rates."
Chicago & Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339,
344; Stone v. Farmers' Loan & T. Co., 116 U. S. 307; Chicago,
Mil. &c. Ry. Co. v. Minnesotai 134 U. S. 418.
The rates in force at the time of the advance complained
of, having been long in effect and remunerative to the carrier,
constituted fair compensation for the service performed and
therefore ,the advance was unreasonable. Beale & Wyman,
Railroad Rate Regulation, §§ 399, .506; Noyes on Am. Railroad
Rates, 211, 213.
The reasonableness of the rate in a given case depends
on the facts, and the function of the Commission is to consider
these facts and give them their proper weight. C. N.0. & T.
P. Ry. Co. v. Int. Com. Com., 162 U. S. 184, 196. And see
E. T. V. & G. Ry. Co. v. Int. Com. Com., 181 U. S. 1; 'L. & N.
R. Co. v. Behiman, 175 U. S. 648.
The advance in rate being the result of a combination among
the defendant carriers in restraint of trade and not the product
of free competition but the consequence of a suppression of
competition, it is illegal and unreasonable and its enforcement
was properly eRjoined.
Competition is a fact to be considered in determining whether

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. T
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

rates are reasonable. Int. Com. Com. v. Alabama Midland
Ry. Co., 168 U. S. 144, 164; Int. Com. Com. v. B. & 0. R. Co.,
145 U. S. 263.
Hence the absence of competition, or agreements that
suppress and prevent competition, are material and may be
considered by the Commission. United States v. Freight
Assn., 166 U. S. 290, 341; United States v. Joint Traffic Assn.,
171 U. S. 505, 565, 575.
The necessary effect of the agreement is to restrain trade
or commerce no matter what the intent was on the part of
those who signed it. United States v. Freight Assn., 166 U. S.
290, 342. And it is not necessary to show that the agreement
was entered into for the purpose of restraining trade or commerce if such restraint is its necessary effect. United States v.
Trans-Missouri Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 291, 312.
Appellants are estopped from questioning the jurisdiction
of the court below by the stipulations and agreements into
which they entered, and have waived any right to demand
a trial by jury as to their obligation to refund and the amount
to be refunded by them to complainants and all other shippers
of lumber at the advanced rate which has been adjudged unreasonable. Halliday v. Stuart, 151 U.,S. 229; Perego v. Dodge,
163 U. S. 160, 166; Bank v. Okely, 4 Wheat. 235, 243.
Parties by their conduct or their silence may waive a right
to trial by jury. Baird v. The Mayor, 74 N. Y. 382, 386;
The Brooklyn &c. R. Co. v. R. Co., 105 App. Div. (N. Y.) 88;
Book v. Justin Min. Co., 58 Fed. Rep. 827.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Georgia, adjudging an advance in freight rates made by
appellants to be effective June 22, 1903, upon yellow pine
lumber of two cents per one hundred pounds over rates previously in force, to be unjust and unreasonable, and enjoining
VOL. cCvi-28

.434

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

the appellants, jointly and severally- from maintaining the
same, "in so far as they apply to shipments of lumber from
points in Georgia to Ohio River destinations and points basing
thereon.."
The original bill ywas filed April 14, 1903, by appellees to
enjoin such advance in rates and a temporary restraining
order was issued and notice to appellants to show cause why
an injunction should not issue. On May 8 the bill was amended.
On, May 12 the appellants, filed a. demurrer to the amended
bill for want of jurisdiction in the court as a court of equity
and as a court of the United States, and the Southeastern
Freight Association filed an answer. Appellants also filed a
response to the order to show cause. On May 16 the demurrer
was overruled. The temporary injunction was, however,
dissolved, but the following condition was expressed:
"In case the respondents shall enforce the rates complained
of, and the complainants shall make proper application to the
Interstate Commerce Commission to redress their alleged
grievances, the court will entertain a renewed application on
the record as made, and such appropriate additions thereto
as may be proposed by either party, enjoining the enforcement
of such rates,. pending the investigation of the Commission,
unless otherwise dissolved, and on presentation to the court
of the report of the Commission such other action be taken
as will be conformable to law and the principles of equity.".
123 Fed. Rep, 789.
The appellants took the steps prescribed by the Interstate
Commerce Act to put the advanced rates into effect, and the
appellees, on June 23, 1903, filed a petition before the Interstate Commerce Commission, charging that "in promulgating
said tariff of increased rates and maintaining and enforcing
the same" the appellants were acting "in concert with each
other and with other lumber' carrying roads," who with them
were "co-members of the Southeastern Freight Association."
The petition also charged that the advance was "arbitrary,
unreasonable and unjust," and prayed for an order commanding

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. TIFT.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

appellants, and each of them, to desist from -enforcing the
advance. All of the appellants except the Macon and Birmingham Railway Company filed a joint and several-answer, in
which they traversed the allegations of the petition and
pleaded justificatio'by the conditions affecting the roads
and the traffic. They also alleged that the Georgia Saw Mill
Association,-to which appellees belonged, was a combination
in restraint of trade and commerce, and that, therefore, appellees did not "come before the Commission with clean hands."
A great deal of testimony' was taken on the issues presented,
.and the Commissio5 found and concluded, that the advance
in rates "was not warranted by the testimony, and' that the
increased rates put in .force June 22, 1903, were unreasonable
and unjust.'.' The specific findings and conclusions of the Commission are reported in 10 I. C. C. R. 548. After the petition
was filed before the Interstate Commerce Commission, but
before final action, appellees filed an amended bill and again
moved the Circuit Court for an injunction. In the amended
bill it was alleged that appellants, after the dissolution of the
restraining order, filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission and gave public notice that on June 22, 1903, the
advance in sales on lumber would be establihed and put in
effect, and, such advance became, effective June 22, 1903.
The appellants in a joint and several answer admitted the
averments of the amended bill, but reseryed, the benefit of
their demurrer to the original bill. The motion for an injunction was dismissed. 125 Fed. Rep. 789.
The Commission made its order hereinbefore referred toon'the seventh of February, 1905, and on March 17,, 1,905, the
appellees presented a petition to the Circuit Court stating
the substance of. the findings of the Commission and attaching
a copy of its report and opinion.
An order to show cause was issued.

On June 3, 1905, ap-

pellants filed a joint and several answer, which was verified.
The Southeastern Association answered separately. The
appellees also filed a supplemental bill, the purpose of which

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

.was to obtain restitution of the excess of rates charged over
those which it was alleged were unreasonable. To this bill a
demurrer was filed.
It was stipulated by counsel of the respective parties that
the testimony, including exhibits, taken before the Interstate
Commerce Commission; should be filed in the case subject
only to objections to its relevancy. In addition to such
testimony other evidence was submitted to the Circuit Court,
and that court rendered a decree July, 1905, that the advance
in rates "from lumber shipping points within the State of
Georgia to Cincinnati, Louisville, Evansville, Cairo and other
points on the Ohio River or crossings was and is excessive,
unreasonable and unjust, and in violation of the provisions
of the act of Congress, known as the Act to Regulate Commerce, and the amendments thereto, and that the rates and
charges resulting from said advance are likewise excessive,
unreasonable, and unjust, and in violation of the Act to Regulate Commerce." The appellants were enjoined, as we have
already said, from enforcing the advance.
The decree also directed an order of reference to the standing
master of the pleadings and evidence in the cause, with instructions to ascertain the sum total of the increase in rates
paid by each of the appellees and other members of the Georgia
Saw Mill Asociatio'n to either or all of the appellants since the
rate went into effect. This was done, the decree recited,
in pursuance of a stipulation made by the respondents (appellants) in open court that in case the complainants (appellees)
prevailed decree of restitution might be made. 125 Fed. Rep.
753. The decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
without an opinion.
On the merits, as distinguished from the questions which
concern the jurisdiction and procedure in the Circuit Court,
this case is, though variant in some detail of facts, 'similar
in principle and depends upon the same legal considerations
as Illinois Central RailroadCompany v. The InterstateCommerce
Commission, just decided. The advance here involved grew

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. TIFT:
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

out of the same action by the railroads there considered, and
is the advance there referred to as having been made west of
the Mississippi. This case was aifgued and submitted with
that and depends on the same ultimate contentions. We need
not repeat the discussion of those contentions nor trace out
or dwell upon the many subsidiary considerations which the
assignments of error and the elaborate briefs of counsel present.
In the case at bar, however, there are assignments of error
based on the objections to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
These might present serious questions in view of our decision
in Texas & Pacific Railroad Company v. Abilene Cotton Oil
Company, 204 U. S. 426, upon a different record than that
before us. We are not required to say, however, that because
an action at law for damages to recover unreasonable rates
which have been exacted in accordance with the schedule of
rates as filed, is forbidden by the Interstate Commerce Act,
a suit in equity is also forbidden to prevent a filing or enforcement of a schedule of unreasonable rates or a change to unjust
or unreasonable rates. The Circuit Court granted no relief
prejudicial to appellants on the original bill. It sent the
'parties to the Interstate Commerce Commission, where, upon
sufficient pleadings identical with those before the court,
and upon testimony adduced upon the issues made, the decision was adverse to the appellants. This action of the
Commission, with its findings and conclusions, was presented
to the Circuit Court, and it was upon these, in effect, the decree
of the court was rendered. There was no demurrer to that
petition, and the testimony taken before the Commission
was stipulated into the case, and the opinion of the court
recites that, "with equal meritorious purpose, counsel for the
respective parties, agreed that this would stand for and be
the hearing for final decreein equity."
It was certainly competent for the appellees to proceed in
the Circuit Court under section 16 of the Interstate Commerce
Act (24 Stat. 379) and to apply by petition to the Circuit
Court, "sitting in equity," for the court to hear and determine

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

the matter "as a court of equity," and issue an injunction
"or other proper process, mandatory or. otherwise," to enforce
the order of the Commission. We think that under the broad
powers conferred upon the Circuit Court by section 16 and
the direction there given to the court to proceed with efficiency,
but without the formality of equity proceedings, "but in such
manner as to do justice in the premises," and in view of the
stipulation of the parties, recited in the decree of the court,
the appellants are precluded from making the objection that
the court did not have jurisdiction to entertain the petition
and grant the relief prayed for and decreed.
But objection is made to the extent of the decree. Indeed,
the objection may be said to go farther back, and is based on
the bill itself, on the ground that "pecuniary reparation was.
demanded" in it, and "such payment necessarily involves
a. trial by jury, guaranteed by the Constitution of the United
States." And further, that each complainant is separately
interested in any amount which may be recovered. The
specific part of the decree which is objected to is as follows:
"Third. That an order be taken referxing to the standing
master of this court, J. N. Talley, Esquire, the pleadings and
evidence in this cause, with instructions to ascertain the sum
total of the increase in rates paid by each of the complainants
and other members' of the Georgia Saw Mill Association to
either or all of the defendant companies, since the rate 'vent
into effect, and to the 'end of the litigation, and report such
amount to the court in order that pursuant to the stipulation
made by the"respondents in open court, in case the complainants prevailed, decree of restitution may be madde."
* The errors assigned against this part of the decree are (a)
That there is nothing in the pleadings or the evidence to justify
any reference. (b) The master should 'only have been ordered
to ascertain the sun total of the advance paid by each of the
appellees as is unreasonable and unjust. (c) That no members
of the Georgia Saw Mill Association except the complainants
(appellees) had themselves made parties to 'the cause prior

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO.
206 U. S.

i. TIFT.

Opinion of the Court.

to the rendition of the decree of July 8, 1905, and, therefore,
no reference should have been made to ascertain the amounts
paid by such other members. (d) The master should not have
been ordered to report any amount at all. (e) No stipulation
was .made by appellants that a decree of restitution should
be made except "in the event that complainants (appellees)
finally prevail, and whether they finally prevail cannot be
known until the determination of this appeal."
In support of these -contentions appellants rely on Texas &
Pacific Railway v. Abilene Cotton Oil Company, supra. In
that case the Abilene Cotton Oil. Company sued in one of the
courts in Texas to recover the excess of what, it alleged, to
be an unjust and unreasonable charge on shipments of carloads of cotton seed. The defense was that the rates were
charged according to the schedule of rates filed under the
Interstate Commerce Act, and that the court had- no jurisdiction to grant relief upon the basis that the established rate was
unreasonable, when it had not been found to be so by the
Interstate Commerce Commission. The defense prevailed
in the trial court but 'did not prevail in the Court of Civil
Appeals, where judgment was rendered in favor of the cotton
oil company. The judgment was reversed by this court on
the ground that the state courts had no jurisdiction to entertain a suit based on the unreasonableness of a-ate as published
in advance of the action of the Interstate Commerce Commission
adjudging the rate unreasonable. And it was in effect held
that reparation after such action for the excess above a reasonable rate must be by a proceeding before the Commission,
"because of a wrong endured during the period when the
unreasonable schedule was enforced by the carrier and before
its change and the establishment of a new one." There is
nothing in that case, however, which precludes the parties,
after action by the Commission declaring rates unreasonable,
from stipulating in the proceedings prosecuted under section 16
that the court adjudge the amount of reparation. By the
action of the Commission the foundation for reparation, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

provided in the Interstate Commerce Act, was established,
and the inquiry submitted to the court was but of its amount,
and had the natural and justifiable inducement to end all
the controversies between the parties without carrying part
of them to another tribunal. We do not understand that the
assignment of errors questions the truth of the recital in the
decree that the reference was made in pursuance of the stipulation in open court, and it is upon the stipulation we rest
our decision. It is said, however, that it was stipulated that
restitution should only be made in the event the appellants
.prevailed. Necessarily it was so dependent. So was every
part of the relief prayed by the appellees. The decree was
the first judgment that they should prevail, and properly
provided for the satisfaction of all the relief dependent upon
their success. Of course, what was granted by the decree was
subject to review and change or defeat in the Circuit Court
of Appeals and in this court. But it equally was subject to
affirmance, and was put in such form and made such provision
as made it ready to be executed upon affirmance.
The objection that the reference is too broad is not of substance; What the court may award upon the coming in of
the report of the master we cannot know. Presumably it
will make the reparation adequate for the injury, and award
only the advance on.the old rate and to those who are parties
to the cause.

Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY

took no part in the decision of this case.
dissents.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER

