CHAPMAN & DEWEY LAND CO. v. BIGELOW.

41

Syllabus.

206 U. S.

mencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy," and explicitly
states that it shall vest "as of the date he was adjudicated a
bankrupt." When the petition in the present case was filed
the bank had a valid lien upon these policies for the payment
of its debt. The contracts under which they were pledged
were valid and enforceable under the laws of New York where
the debt was incurred and the lien created. The bankruptcy
act did not attempt by any of its provisions to deprive a
lienor of any remedy which the law of the State vested him
with; on the other hand, it provided, ยง 67d: "Liens given or
accepted in good faith and not in contemplation of or in fraud
upon this act, and for a present consideration, which have
been recorded according to law, if record thereof was necessary
in order to impart notice, shall not be affected by this act."
Mueller v. Nuget, 184 U. S. 1, is not to the contrary, as
explained in York',Manufacturing Company v. Cassell, 201
U. S. 344.
Judgment affirmed.

CHAPMAN AND DEWEY LAND COMPANY v. BIGELOW.
ERROR TO THE SUPP'ME COURT OF THE STATE OF.ARKANSAS
No. 262.

Argued April 12, 15, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

Writ of error to review decision of the state court, dismissing bill to remove
cloud on title to lands under water, dismissed for want of jurisdiction on
the findings of the court below and the authority of the cases cited.
The rejection as evidence, by the state court, of a letter written by the
Secretary of the Interior to the Commissioner of the Land Office, on the
ground that it was res inter alios, held, in this case proper and not to
present any Federal 4uestion.
Writ of error to review 92 S. W. Rep. 534, dismissed.

THE facts are stated in the opinioU of -the court.

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

Mr. Henry D. Ashley, with whom Mr. Sanford B. Ladd,
Mr.,William S. Gilbert, Mr. Denton Dunn and Mr. Robert S.
Rodgers were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. N. W. Norton for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a bill to remove a cloud from plaintiff in error's
alleged title to certain lands described in the complaint, and
to that end to have the conveyances under which defendants
in error claimed declared void, filed by plaintiff in error in the
Chancery Court of Poinsett County, Arkansas, January 29,
1903. The Chancery Court rendered a decree dismissing the
bill, and the case was carried to the Supreme Court of the
State, where the decree was affirmed. 92 S. W. Rep. 5.4.
Thereupon this writ of error was allowed.
The Supreme Court of the State stated the case in brief thus:
"Plaiftiff claims title under an act of Congress entitled 'An
act to enable the State of Arkansas and other States to reclaim
the swamp lands within their limits,' approved September 28,
1850. It alleges that, in pursuance of the provisions of this
act, surveyed sections and parts of fractional sections in fractional township 12 north of the base line, in range 6 east of
the fifth principal meridian, and. in township 12 north of the
base line, fr range 7 east of the fifth principal meridian, and in
Poinsett County, in this State, were duly selected, approved,
and patented to the State of ArkkansdS, as a part of the swamp
land-grant; that certain of the~e lands were conveyed by the
State of Arkansas, on the 12th day of June, 1871, to Moses S.
Beach, that plaintiff acquired and is the'owner of 'these lands
so conveyed to Beach as well as certain. ather of the lands
which were, deeded to the State of Arkatsas. by. the United
States; that many- of the legal .subdivisions-. of sections so acquired by plaintiff were bounded by a large body of nonnavigable water called in 'the official surveys of the United

CHAPMAN & DEWEY LAND CO. v. BIGELOW.
206 U. S.

43

Opinion of the Court.

States and field .notes thereof as the 'Sunk Lands,' 'St. Francis
River Sunk Lands,' the 'Hatchie Coon Sunk Lands,' and the
'Cut-Off Lake;' that the legal subdivisions so bounding were
fractional, and in the survey were meandered along such body
of water. The plaintiff thereupon claims the lands lying under
this body of water; and these are the lands in controversy in
this suit to which it (plaintiff) seeks a decree to quiet its title
as against the defendants.
. "Plaintiff alleges that these lands are wild, unimproved, and
unoccupied; and that the defendants are *claiming them under
certain deeds; and asks that these be declared void., invalid,
and of no force whatever.
"The defendants answered and denied that the so-called
'Sunk Land' was a body of water, or that it is shown to be by
the surveys of the United States or the field notes; but that it
was sometimes temporarily flooded with water, and was land
bearing 'trees and vegetables, willow and cypress;' and that
the meandered lines run as alleged by plaintiff were run as
boundaries, and not for the purpose of finding the number of
acres in the sections or legal subdivisions 'for which purchasers
would have to pay when the government might dispose of the
land.'"
Defendants' answer and cross-bill asserted that in the year
1893 the State of Arkansas, by an act of its legislature, "created
the board of directors of the St. Francis Levee District, the
purpose being to erect a levee against the waters of the Mississippi River and protect what is known as the St. Francis
Basin from overflow by the Mississippi River; that the lands
concerning which 'plaintiffs bring this suit, and cross complainants file this cross-bill, are a portion of the said St. Francis
Basin and are originally and naturally subject to overflow
from the Mississippi River. That after creating the board of
directors of the St.. Francis Levee District, the State of Arkansas, by its legislature, to aid in the erection of said levee,
granted to the board of directors of the St. Francis Levee
District lands within said district, the title to which was in

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

the State of Arkansas; that this act of donation by the legislature of the State of Arkansas went into effect on the twentyninth day of March, 1893, and thereby the legal title to the
unsurveyed lands in township 12 north, range 6 east, and township 12 north, range 7 east, became vested in the board of
directors of the St. Francis Levee District;" and that thereafter the said board of directors conveyed to defendants'
predecessors ih title.
The Supreme Court, among other things, said that appellant
claimed "the land in controversy by virtue of the contiguity
of certain lands, acquired by it from the United States, through
the State of Arkansas and other grantors, to what is called
'Sunk Lands' and 'Cut-Off Lake.' This 'Sunk Lands,' from
appellant's land on one side to the St. Francis River, a navigable stream, on the other, is there four and six miles wide. In
this area there are over ten thousand acres." That "the offical
maps show that 'CiAt-Off Lake' was the water boundary of
fractional sections 35 and 36," which, With sundry other
fractional sections, formed "the western boundary of 'what is
called 'Sunk Lands,' in controversy."
The patents to the State of Arkansas conveyed "the whole
of fractional township" 12 north, range 6 east; and "the whole
of the township except section sixteen," T. 12 N., R. 7 east.
The Supreme Court referred to and quoted from Home v.
Smith, 159 U. S.- 40; French-Glenn Live Stock Company v.
Springer, 185 U. S. 47, and Niles v. Cedar Point Club, 175
U. S.300; and ruled that in an action to quiet title to wild
and unoccupied lands, which the court found these were,
plaintiff must-succeed, if at all, on the strength of his own
title, and not on the weakness of his adversary's; that swampy
lands, checked by bayous, subject to inundation, but -reclaimable to some extent for agricultural purposes, lying between
the Government meander line and the main channel of a river,
were. not lands the title to which would pass 'to the grantee by
virtue of riparian rights; that such was the character of the
lands in controversy, and that plaintiff had failed to show such

CHAPMAN & DEWEY LAND CO. v. BIGELOW.,
206 U. S.

45

Opinion of the Court.

a condition in respect of them as would support its claim to
riparian rights; that the evidence showed that the elevation of
the swampy land between the meander line of plaintiff's land
and the main course of the St. Francis River had not changed
since the running of the meander line; and that the meander
lines were boundaries.
In view of the decisions of this court in Home v. Smith, 159
U. S. 40; Niles v. CedarPoint Club, 175 U. S. 300; Calumet Canal
and Improvement Company.v. Kean, 190 U. S. 452; Iowa v.
Rood, 187 U. S. 87, and other cases, and of the findings of the
court below, we are of opinion that the jurisdiction of this
court to revise the conclusions of that court cannot be maintained. Moreland v. Page, 20 How. 522; Lan/ear v. Hunley,
4, Wall. 204; Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658; Egan v. Hart,
165 U. S. 188; Israel v. Arthur, 152 U. S. 355; Hardin v. Shedd,
190 U. S. 508; Romie v. Casanova, 91 U. S. 379.
The result is unaffected by the exclusion from the evidence
of a letter written by the Secretary of the Interior to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, November 17, 1902. It
was clearly res inter alios, and properly rejected, and the ruling
presented no Federal question.
Writ of error dismissed.

