OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
206 U. S.

Syllabus.

ever it shall appear that through a material increase in the
depletion of the waters of the Arkansas by Colorado, its corporations or citizens, the substantial interests of Kansas are being
injured to the extent of destroying the equitable apportionment of benefits between the two States resulting from the flow
of the river. Each party will pay its own costs.
In closing, we may say that the parties to this litigation
have approached the investigation of the questions in the most
honorable spirit, seeking to present'fully the facts as they
could be ascertained from witnesses and discussing the evidence and questions of law with marked research and ability.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

and MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

the result.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

I

concur in

took no part in the decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. WILLIAM CRAMP & SONS SHIP &
ENGINE BUILDING COMPANY.
WILLIAM CRAMP & SONS SHIP & ENGINE BUILDING
COMPANY, APPELLANT, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 263, 264.

Argued April 18, 19, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

In a contract made between a building company and the United States for
the construction of a battleship at a cost of over three millions of dollars
it was provided that a special reserve of sixty thousand dollars should

be held until the vessel had been finally tried and then paid to the company "on the execution of a final release to the United States in such
form as shall be approved by the Secretary of the Navy, of all claims of
any kind or description under or by virtue of said contract." The vessel
having been built and the final trial had, all moneys were paid on the
execution by the company of a stipulation to "remise, release and forever
discharge the United States of and from all and all manner of debts, dues,
sums and sums of money, accounts, reckonings, claims and demands whatsoever, in law or in equity, for or by reason of or on account of the con.struction of said vessel under the contract aforesaid." Held, that:
In the absence of anything to the contrary, It will be assumed that the release which was executed was the one stipulated for in the original con-

UNITED STATES v. WM. CRAMP & SONS -CO.
206 U. S.

119

Statement of the Case.

tract and was intended to include all matters which according to its
terms were to be released by the company as a condition of final payment.
The words in the release "by reason of" are equivalent to those in the
original contract "by virtue of" and include all -claims which grew out
of the performance of the contract, although not arising from the actual
construction of the vessel.
41 C. CI. 164, reversed.

November 19, 1890, the William Cramp & Sons Ship &
Engine Building Company entered into a contract with the
ON

United States to construct what was called "Coast-line battleship No. 1," but afterwards known as the battleship "Indiana,"
for the sum of $3,020,000, the ship to be completed and ready
for delivery to the United States within three years from the
date of the contract. As a matter of fact the vessel was not
completed and delivered until November 19, 1895, but as the
delay was occasioned by the United States no damages were
recoverable from the building company on account thereof.
On August 10, 1897, the company commenced this action in
the Court of Claims to recover the sum of $480,231.90. The
elements of its claim are thus stated in its petition:
For time of organization and plant lost in waiting for armor,
materials, etc., to be furnished by United States .......... $144,379.50
For special wharfage, 730 days, at 1 cent per ton per day ..... 74,825.00
For general care and maintenance of vessel, including coal, firemen, engineers, watchman, canvas awnings, wooden covers,
keeping clean, removing snow, dust, etc., extra painting, tug
98,550.00
hire, moving derrick, etc., 730 days, at $135 per day .......
34,462.55
Additional cost of insurance ..............................
Interest on money borrowed caused by delays of United States
60,499.91
. which prolonged final settlement .........................
Extra trial trip made necessary by construction and completion
17,514.94
of vessel being delayed by United States ..................
For loss due to running the official trial of "Indiana" with a
foul bottom, as owing to the delay caused in the completion
50,000.00
of the vessel it was impossible to clean and paint the bottom
Total ........

......................... $480,231.90
........

On May 10, 1894, as appears from the findings made by the
Court of Claims, an agreement was made between the parties

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

by which moneys not then due by the terms of the original
contract were paid, the stipulation in this new agreement
being:
'"But such payment shall not-be made until the party of
the first part has given bond with approved security conditioned for the return to the party of the second part of the
amount so paid, upon demand being made by the Secretary
of the Navy therefor, for indemnity of the party of the second
part against loss or injury by reason of such payment, and in
consideratiodi of such advance payment the party of the first
part hereby releases the party of the second part from all
and every claim for loss or damage hitherto sustained by
reason of any failure on the part of the party of the second
part to comply with its contract or on account of any delay
hitherto occasioned by the action of said party of the second
part."
The time intervening between this agreement and the final
completion and delivery of the vessel was one year, six months
and nine days, and that time was made the basis for the com
putation of damages, as will appear hereafter.
On May 18, 1896, after the completion and delivery of
the vessel, the balance of the money due on the contract was
paid,- and a release and receipt executed by the building company in the following terms-"Whereas, by the eleventh clause of the contract dated
November .19, 1890, .by and between The William Cramp
And Sons Ship and Engine Building Company, a corporation
created under, the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, and
doing business at Philadelphia, in said State, represented by
the president-of said company, party of the first part, and the
United $,tates, represented by the Secretary of the Navy,
party of the second part, for the construction of a seagoing
coast-line, battleship of about ten thousand tons displacement,
which for the purpose of said contract is designated and
known as .'Coast-line battleship No. 1,' it is agreed that a
special reserve of sixty thousand dollars ($60,000) shall' be

UNITED STATES v. WM. CRAMP & SONS CO.
206 U. S.

121

Statement of the Case.

held until the vessel shall have been finally tried; provided
that such final trial shall take place within five months from
and after the date of the preliminary or the conditional acceptance of the vessel; and
"Whereas by the sixth paragraph of the nineteenth clause
of said contract it is further provided that when all the conditions, covenants, and provisions of said contract shall have
been performed and fulfilled by and on the part of the party
of the first part, said party of the first part shall be entitled,
within ten days after the fling and acceptance of its claim,
to receive the said special reserve or so much thereof as it
may be entitled to on the execution of b final release to the
United States in such form-as shall be approved by the Secretary of the Navy, of all claims of any kind or description under
or by virtue of said contract; and
"Whereas the final trial of said vessel was completed on
the eleventh day of April, 1896; and
"Whereas all the conditions, covenants and provisions of
said contract have been performed and fulfilled by and on
the part of the party of the first part;
"Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises, the sum
of forty-one thousand one hundred and thirty-two dollars
and eighty-six, cents ($41,132.86), the balance of the aforesaid
special reserve ($60,000), to which the party of the first is
entitled,' being to me in hand paid by the United States, represented by the Secretary of the Navy, the receipt whereof is
hereby acknowledged, The William Cramp and Sons Ship
and Engine Building Company, represented by me, Charles H.
Cramp, _president of said corporation, does hereby for itself
and its successors and assigns, and its legal representatives,
remise, release and forever discharge the United States of
and from all and all manner of debts, dues, sum and sums of
money, accounts, reckonings, claims and demands whatsoever,
in law or in equity, for or by reason of or on account of the
construction of said vessel under the contract aforesaid.
"In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the United States.

206 U. S.

affixed the seal of The William Cramp & Sons Ship and Engine
Building Company this eighteenth day of May, A. D. 1896.
CHAS. H. CRAMP, President.
"Attest: JOHN DOUGHERTY, Secretary."

[SEAL.]

The Court of Claims found for the claimant in the following
items and amounts:
The reasonable value for the use of the claimant's yard, machinery and tools, and for superintendence in the construction
of the vessel, including the general upkeep of the yard chargeable to the "Indiana," $3,000 per month, making .......... $54,887.67
The reasonable cost of theproper care and protection of the vessel during the two years' delay, including expense of cleaning
the bottom, furnishing material and -painting, temporary
awnings and tents over caps left for the introduction of turrets, additional scaling to remove rust before painting, electric
lighting, keeping up steam to prevent freezing of valves, wetting down decks, going over machinery, and keeping vessel
free from snow, dust, ice, and debris from May 10, 1894 .... 36,591.78
Wharfage from May 10, 1894, including the dredging of a basin
to accommodate the vessel ..............................
17,808.00
The proportionate expense, for the period from May 10, 1894,
of the cost of insurance during the two years' delay ........
26,272.55

$135,560.00

and rendered judgment against the Government for $135,560.
From this judgment both parties appealed.
The Attorney General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Van Orsdel, with whom Mr. Charles C. Binney was on the
brief, for the United States:
The final release of May 18, 1896, released the United States
from every kind 'of liability to the contractor which could
arise in connection with the building of the "Indiana," including liability (if any such existed) for damages on account
of delay in furnishing the armor.
The language of the release, though somewhat fuller than
that of the contract, must have been intended to cover the
precise ground which the contract stated should be covered.

UNITED STATES v. WM. CRAMP & SONS CO.
206 U. S.

123

Argument for the United State&

There was no authority to require a more complete release,
and the words actually used cover the ground at least as
completely as do the words of the contract.
The contract being for the construction of the vessel and
for no other purpose, ie follows that a release of claims on
account of such construction must be a release to the United
States "of all claims of any kind or description under or by
virtue of this contract." Such a release must cover every kind
of lawful claim of the contractor, against the Government,
to which anything that was-done under the contract gave
rise. A claim fcr damages on account of delay in delivering
the armor was certainly a claim "under or by virtue of this
contract," because there could have been no such claim had
the contract not been made. It was a claim for damages for
the failure of. the United States to do what it had contracted
to do, and had the United States not so contracted there
could have been no such claim. The claim, moreover, had
fully accrued six months before the release was made, for the
claim is for damages to November 19, 1895, the date of preliminary acceptance, while the release was made May 18, 1896.
The release, being required by the contract itself, was
obviously given for a valuable consideration. The contract
cannot be cut up into separate parts and one of the claimant's
obligations declared to be without consideration, as distinguished from other obligations for which a consideration existed. The release itself shows that $41,132.86 was paid at
the time the release was executed, but the consideration was
not even limited to this payment.
As to the inherent reasonableness of a provision for a release of all claims, including those for damages due to delay,
it should not be forgotten that the contract had provided
that a failure to deliver the armor at the proper time should
not cause any serious delay. The contractor was entitled to
complete the vessel without the undelivered armor, and it
is manifest that if it had insisted on doing so, no claim on
account of the delay could have arisen.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the Cramp Company.

206 U. S.

It cannot be contended that this release was given under
duress; in order .to secure a payment of money to which the
claimant was lawfully entitled. The contract may have
turned out to be less profitable than the contractor expected,
but the time for objecting to its terms was before it was signed.
There is no such thing, in the eye of the law, as duress in
merely insisting upon the performance of what a man has
freely contracted to do.
Mr. John C. Fay and Mr. Holmes Conrad, with whom
Mr. Eppa Hunton was on the brief, for the Cramp Company:
The final receipt was nothing more or less than an acknowledgment of the payment of the balance of the special reserve,
and while it was very verbose the multiplicity of words did
not change its legal effect.
It was not the result of the adjustment of a disputed or
disputable account for every "condition," "covenant," and
"provision" of the contract on the part of the Cramp Company had been "performed and fulfilled," and in consideration
thereof, and for no other consideration, became entitled to
receive the money paid. It is now claimed that this sum of
money not only paid this claim, but that it also embraced
other distinct claims, to wit, unliquidated damages arising
from the breach of the contract on the part of the United
States, which were not only not presented or considered, but
were of such a character that the Secretary of the Navy had
neither the right, authority, or jurisdiction to consider, ad}ust,
or pay. See Brannan'sCase, 20 C. Cls., 223; McKees v. United
States, 12 C. Cl. 555; Powers v. United States, 18 C. Cl. 263,
275; Dunbar v. United.States, 19 C. C1. 493; McClure v. United
States 19 C. Cl. 179; Dennis v. United States, 20 C. Cl. 119,
.121; Pneumatic Gun Carriage Company v. United States, 36
C. Cl. 71; 4 Ops. Atty. Gen. 327, 367, 6 Ops. 516; Decision of
2d Comptroller, A. D. 1860, §§ 458-464.
The United States has recovered back a payment made

UNITED STATES v. WM. CRAMP & SONS CO.
206 U. S.

125

Argument for the Cramp Company.

which the accounting officers had no authority or jurisdiction
to allow. McElrath v. United States, 102 U. S. 426.
There was no necessity to protest; a protest would not
have had any effect whatever.
The claini for damages here sued for was not a claim "under and by virtue of the contract"; it did not arise by reason
of the fulfillment on the part of the Cramp Company of all
the conditions, covenants and provisions that it undertook.
It arose not under, but by reason of the violation of the contract by the United States.
A receipt even as comprehensive as this does not release
such damages as are here claimed, and the general words
upon established principles would be limited to the items
specified. Coulter v. Board of Education, 63 N. Y. 365; 1 Edw.
Ch. 34; 1 Cowan, 122, and cases there cited.
Here the company was not to receive anything except the
balance of the special reserve of the contract price; nothing
was to be considered with respect to the final release except
for the work provided in the contract, not even the extra
work and certainly not the damages for delay. Large amounts
of extra work were done, but they were not to be considered
or paid for in this accounting.
The second article of the contract provides for extra work
and for the ascertainment of its value. Neither the extra
work nor the speed premiums were to be embraced in this final
receipt; it was a final receipt only for the balance of the contract work, and neither its language nor Article XIX of the
contract extends it-beyond that. Fire Insurance Co. v. Wickham, 141 U. S. 577.
A receipt in the exact form of this, and upon a claim arising
from delays on the part of the Government in supplying
material, was held no bar to the suit in Pneumatic Gun Carriage Co. v. United States, 36 C. Cl. 71. See also McLaughlin v.
United States, C. Cl.
The case of Phelan v. Mayor, cited by the United States is
not applicable" to the case at bar.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

206 U. S.

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
This case turns on the release executed by the building
company on May 18, 1896. It is contended by the claimant
that it applies simply to 'laims springing out of the construction of the vessel, and therefore has no application to the
matters for which the judgment was rendered against the
Government. The word "construction," the company says,
is limited'to the mere matter of building; tlat is, the furnishing of materials, the doing of work, and does not include
delays or other matters outside the building of the vessel.
To rightly understand the. scope of this release we must
consider the conditions of the contract, and especially the

clause in it which calls for a release. The contract was a
large one, the price to be paid for the work and material being
over $3,000,000,, and the contract was evidently designed
to cover all contingencies. Provision was made for changes
in the specifications, for penalties on account of delays of the
contractor, deductions in price on certain conditions, approval
of the work by the Secretary of the Navy, forfeiture of the
contract, with authority to the Secretary to complete the
vessel. The last paragraph contains the stipulations as to
the amounts and times of payment with authority for increase of the gross amount upon certain conditions. The
sixth clause of this paragraph makes special provision for the
last payment, to be made "when all the conditions, covenants,
and provisions of said contract shall have -been performed
and fulfilled by and on the part of the party of the first part,"
and "on the execution of a final release to the United States
in such form as shall be approved by the Secretary of the
Navy, of all claims of any kind or description under or by
virtue of said contract." Evidently the parties contemplated
and specially provided by this stipulation that the whole
matter of the contract should be ended at the time of the
final release and the last payment.

That which was to be

UNITED STATES v. WM. CRAMP & SONS CO.
206 U. S.

127

Opinion of the Court.

released was "all claims of any kind or description under or
by virtue of said contract." Manifestly included within this
was every claim arising not merely from a change in the
specifications, but also growing out of delay caused by the
Government. The language is not alone " claims under,"
but "claims by virtue" of the contract-" claims of any kind
or description." All the claims for which allowances were
made in the judgment of the Court of Claims come within
one or the other of these clauses. It may be that, strictly
speaking, they were not claims under the contract, but they
were clearly claims by virtue of the contract. Without it no
such claims could have arisen. Now it having been provided
in advance that the contract should be closed by the execution
of a release of this scope it cannot be that the company, when
it signed the release, understood that some other or lesser
release was contemplated. It must have understood that it
'was the release required by the contract-a release intended
to be of all claims of any kind or description under or by
virtue of the contract, and that the form of words which the
Secretary had approved was used to express that purpose.
With that release stipulated for in the contract the company
signed the instrument of May 18, 1896, which in terms purported to "remise, release and forever discharge the United
States of and from all and all manner of debts, dues, sum and
sums of money, accounts, reckonings, claims and demands
whatsoever, in law or in equity, for or by reason of or on
account of the construction of said vessel under the contract
aforesaid."
Now whatever limitation may be placed upon
the words "for" or "on account of" the construction the
provision for the release of all claims and demands whatsoever, "by reason of the construction of the vessel under
the contract aforesaid," is a recognition of the contract, and
includes claims which arise by reason of the construction of
the vessel under it. "By reason of" may well be considered
as equivalent to "by virtue of." It is only by reason of the
performance of the contract in the construction of the vessel

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S..

that these claims arise. But for the contract, and the construction of the vessel under it, there would be no such claims.
No payment of extra moneys is necessary -to sustain this release. It is under seal, and the contract is itself full consideration. As of significance it must be borne in mind that the release referred specifically to the sixth paragraph of the nineteenth clause of the contract which provided for the character
of tne release. Indeed the general language of the release itself and the number of' words of description in it show that it
was the intent of the Secretary of the Navy to have a final
closing of all matters' arising under or by virtue of the contract.
Stipulations of this kind are not to be shorn of their efficiencyby any narrow, technical and close construction. The' general
language "all and all manner of debts," etc., indicates a purpose to make an ending of every matter arising under or by
virtue of, the contract. If parties intend to leave some things
open and unsettled their intent so to do should be made
manifest. Here was a contract involving three millions of
dollars, and after the work was done, the vessel delivered and
accepted and this release entered, claims are presented amounting to over $500,000. Surely the parties never intended to
leave such a bulk of unsettled matters. As bearing upon this
matter, it may be noticed that while the release was signed
and the contract between the building company and the Government closed on May 18, 1896, this action was not brought
until August 10, 1897, nearly a year and a quarter thereafter.
We are of opinion that the parties by the release of May 18,
1896, which was executed in performance of the requirements
of the original contract, - settled all disputes between the
parties as to the claims sued upon.
The judgment of the.Court of Claims is reversed and the case
.remanded with instructions to enter a judgment on the
findings for the defendant.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE MOODY

part in the decision of this case.

took no

