-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

206 U. S.

"in which a State shall be a party," it was not intended, I
think, to authorize the.court to apply in its behalf, any principle or rule of equity that would not be applied, under the
same facts, in suits wholly between private parties. If this
was a suit between private parties, and if uilder the evidence,
a court of equity would not give the plaintiff an injunction,
then it' ought not to grant relief, under like circumstances, to
the plaintiff, because it happens to be a State possessing some
powers of sovereignty. Georgia is entitled to the relief sought,
not because it is a State, but because it is a party which has
established its right to such relief by proof. The opinion, if I
do not mistake its scope, proceeds largely upon the ground
that this court, sitting in this case as a court of equity, owes
some special duty to Georgia as a State, although it is a party,
while under the same facts, it would not owe any such duty
to the plaintiff, if an individual.

UNITED STATES v. BROWN.
BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 283, 284. Submitted April 25. 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

The prohibition inthe 77th Article of War against officers of the regular
army serving on courts-martial to try soldiers and officers of other forces
is peremptory, and, notwithstanding the contrary construction of former

articles on the same subject, an officer of the regular army, although on
indefinite leave of absence, to enable him to accept a volunteer commission, is not competent to sit on a court-martial to try a volunteer officer;
and if without him there would have been an insufficient number there is no
court and.the sentence of dismissal is void, and in this case an officer so

UNITED STATES v. BROWN.
206 U. S.

241 ,

Argument for the United States.

sentenced and dismissed was entitled to his pay until the organization
to which he belonged was mustered out..
The refusal to grant an officer so discharged an honorable discharge did not
under the circumstances amount to his active retention in the service
and entitle him to pay after the organization to which he belonged had
been discharged.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Van Orsdel and Mr. Franklin
W. Collins, for the United States, submitted:
In the case at bar the officer, having been duly commissioned
as an officer of a regiment of United States Volunteers, is prima
facie a volunteer officer, and as such is eligible to sit at the trial
of an officer or enlisted man of the volunteer forces.
The language used in the statute is clear, and that used in
the permissive enactments of 1861 and 1898, authorizing officers of the Army to accept appointments in the volunteer
forces, is equally clear.
It must be assumed that Congress was familiar with the
long-established administrative practice of the War Department
in the execution of the 97th article of the code of 1806 and in
the similar execution which was given to the 64th, 77th and 78th
articles of the code of 1878. In the absence of restrictive language, the language used in the permissive act of May 28, 1898,
should be given its ordinary meaning and the officers serving in volunteer regiments should be regarded as having the
same rights and privileges and as being charged with the
same duties and obligations as other offi~ers of the volunteer
forces raised by Congress for the prosecu ion of the war with
Spain.
In this case the officer who sat as a member of the courtmartial held a volunteer commission, and therefore conformed
to the requirements of the statute in that regard.
In this case there has been long-continued departmental
construction of the statute in question, and under it the rights
of a large number of officers who have been tried by courtsvoL. ccvi-1 6

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Lewis E. Brown.

206 U. S.

martial similarly constituted have been determined, and the
construction placed upon this statute by the War Department,
continuing as it has for a period of nearly half. a century, has
acquired the force of law, and this construction should not be
lightly overturned by the court unless the strongest and most
cogent reasons are shown therefor. Rogers v. Goodwin, 2 Massachusetts, 476; Brown v. United States,- 113 U. S. 568, 571;
Edwards v. Darby, 12 Wheat. 206; United States v. Hill, 120
U. S. 169, 182; United States v. Philbrick, 120 U. S. 52-59;
United States v. Johnson, 124 U. S. 237: Robertson v. Downing,
127 U. S. 607-613.
If the decision of the Court of Claims is permitted to stand,
it will invalidate a vast number of sentences imposed by courtsmartial similarly constituted, during both the Civil War and
the war with Spain, thus involving the unsettling of matters
of the most far-reaching importance, which up to this time have
been regarded by the Government and all parties concerned as
fully and finally adjudicated and settled. It will be productive
of unspeakable confusion and chaos, and serve no good purpose.
Mr. Lorenzo A. Bailey, Mr. W. W. Dudley and Mr. L. T.
Michener, for Lewis E. Brown, submitted:
Under the 77th Article of War the court-martial was wholly
without jurisdiction to try the claimant, and its sentence, and
all its proceedings in his case, are utterly'null and void.
The failure .of the claimant to object to Colonel Grubbs was
not a waiver of the right to object nor was it an implied consent.
Consent will not be implied as against one Who is ignorant of
the facts, and, furthermore, consent will not give validity to
what is contrary to law.
In McClaughry v. Deming, i86 U. S.49, the dismissal-was
held void under Article 77, although the accused expressly
stated to the co urt-martial that he had no objection td being
tried by any member thereof, he well-knowing at that time that
each member ol the court was ,a regular army officer, and he
thereafter pleaded guilty to the charges against him.

UNITED STATES v. BROWN.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Article 77 is prohibitive. The prohibition cannot be evaded
by means of volunteer commissions carried by those who are
thus in mostpositive terms declared to be incompetent to sit
on a court for the trial of volunteers.
A conclusive argument for the application of Article 77 to
the present case and against the Government's contention is
found in the reason for the enactment of Article 77, as stated
in McClaughry v. Deming, 186 U. S. 49; S. C., 113 Fed. Rep.
639.
MR.J.USTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a claim for pay as first lieutenant of United States
Volunteers after February 17, 1899, on which date by the
sentence of a court-martial the claimant was dismissed from
the service. The court-martial consisted of five members, the
minimum number by the 75th and 79th Articles of War, Rev.
Stats. ยง 1342, and the president of the court was an officer in
the Regular Army. By Article 77 "officers of the Regular
Army shall not be competent to sit on courts-martial to try
the Officers or soldiers of other forces, except as providfe(Q in
Article 78." (Article 78 has no bearing on the case.) On this
ground it is contended that the proceedings were void. Even
if the presence of an incompetent person as a member would
not have made the proceedings invalid in any event, in this case
without him there would have been no court. It has been
decided that a sentence against a volunteer officer by a court
composed wholly of regular officers is void,. and this principle
is thought to govern the present case. McClaughry v. Deming,
186 U. S.49. On this ground the Court of Claims decided that
the claimant was entitled to recover up to the time of the final
muster out of his regiment on May 25, 1899, including two
months' extra pay under the Act of January 12, 1899, c. 46,
30 Stat. 784; 41 C. Cl. 275; ibid. 575. There are cross appeals
to this court.
The answer of the United States to the foregoing argument

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

is that the regular officer had been granted an indefinite leave
of absence from the Regular Army in order to enable him to
accept a commission as Lieutenant Colonel, Second United
States Volunteer Infantry, and that he was serving in the latter
capacity when he sat upon the court. It is argued that it
always has been understood that under such circumstances
the position in the volunteer service alone is to be regarded,
that, much harm will be done if a contrary construction should
be adopted now, and that the leave given to appoint regular
officers to the volunteer service should be construed to carry
with an appointment the same consequences that would attach
to a commission if held by anyone else, Act of April 22, 1898,
c. 187, ยง 13, 30 Stat. 363; Act of May 28, 1898, c. 367, ยง 2, 30
Stat. 421.
This argument would have great force when it was required,
as formerly, only that courts-martial for the trial of militia
officers "Should be composed entirely of militia officers."
Act of April 10, 1806, c. 20, art. 97, 2 Stat. 359, 371. If there
was a settled practice of treating these words as satisfied if
the members of the court were militia officers, whether they
also held commissions in the Regular Army or not, we well
might hesitate to overthrow it. But when the express prohibition contained in Article 77 was adopted by the Revised Statutes, it made the former construction no longer possible. The
words of the statute are peremptory and must be obeyed. We
do not apprehend any serious consequences, in view of the date
of the change. But whatever the consequences we must accept
the plain meaning of plain words. It follows that the proceedings of the court were void, and that it is not necessary to mention or consider other objections that were urged.
We are of opinion that the Court of Claims was right also in
the allowances made to the claimant. In 1900 the claimant
applied for an honorable discharge as-of May 25, 1899, the date
When his regiment w mustered out, but was refused. Of
course the refusal of a certificate of honorable discharge on the
ground that the applicant already has been dishonorably dis-

UNITED STATES v. BROWN.
206 1J. S.

Opinion of the Court.

charged is not an active retention of the officer in the service.
The Act of March 2, 1899, c. 352, ยง 15, 30 Stat. 977, 981, provided that the officers and men of the Volunteer Army should
be mustered out, and under the Act of January 12, 1899, c. 46,
30 Stat. 784, "as far as practicable," the discharge of officers
and men was to take effect at the muster out of the organization to which they belonged. It would be monstrous to hold
that it had been determined not to be practicable to discharge
the claimant When his regiment was mustered out, or that the
circumstances of his case, notwithstanding his technical success,
afford a' ground for a later claim. The claimant was allowed
two months' extra pay for service outside the United States.
He was not entitled to one month's extra pay for service within
the 'Jnited States. See Act of May 26, 1900, c. 586, 31 Stat.
205, 217. Of course, the claim for travel under the same act
(31 Stat. 210) must fail. The claimant was discharged before
that act was passed.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY did not sit and took no part in the de-

cision.

