STEWART v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

give full force-and effect to the judgment we must necessarily
exclude those things which the judgment excluded. To hold
to the contrary would be to decide that the former judgment
must be accepted as correct, and yet it must be extended to
controversies which are beyond its reach, because the judgment was wrongfully rendered..
The same judgment must therefore be ordered in each of
these cases as was directed to be entered in the Jones National
Bank case, viz., as to Mosher and Outcalt, two of the persons
named as plaintiffs in the writ of error and citation, the writ
of error in each action is dismissed for want of prosecution;
as to the other, plaintiffs in error, the judgment below in each
action is reversed and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

STEWART v. UNITED STATES AND THE OSAGE
NATION.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 256. Argued April 12, 1907.-Decided May 13. 1907.

Under the Osage Indian treaty of September 29, 1865 and §§ 2237-2241,
Rev. Stat., a register of the United States Land Office is not entitled to
any additional compensation beyond the maximum of $2,500 per annum
for services in connection with sales of land provided for by treaty.
Section 13 of the Act of Congress of May 3, 1903, 32 Stat. 1010, permitting
registers and receivers to bring suit in the Court of Claims for commissions
and compensation for sales of Osage Indian lands simply provided for presentation of the claims and for a decision on the merits without any admission that any sum was due or assumption that the claims were meritorious.
39 C. Cl. 321, affirmed.

THE appellant herein filed his petition in the Court of Claims
to obtain compensation for services *performed by him. while
a register of the United States land office at Humboldt, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206.U. S.

the State of Kansas, during the time from May 12, 1869, until
November 20, 1871.
His petition to recover for such services was filed7 in the
Court of Claims pursuant to the provisions of section 13 of the
Indian Appropriation Act .(chapter 994), approved May 3,
1903 (32 Stat. 1010, 1011). The section reads-as follows:
"SEC. 13. That any one -or more of the registers and receivers of the United States land offices in the State of Kansas
upon whom was imposed the responsibility of. maling sale and
disposal of the Osage, ceded, Osage trust and Osag diminished
reserve land in said State under the treaty of September
tw~nty-nihth, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, between the
United States and the Osage. Indians, and the acts of Congress for carrying said treaty into effect, may bring suit inthe
Court of Claims against the Osage Nation and the United
States to determine the claim of the plaintiff or plaintiffs for
commissions or compensation for the sale of said lands or any
service or duty connected therewith.. And the said court shall
have jurisdiction to hear and determine said cause and to
render judgment 'thereon on the merits; and the Attorney
General shall appear on behalf of the United States and the
Osage Nation, and either party feeling aggrieved at the decision of the Court of Claims may appeal to the Supreme Court
of the United States, and the final judgment in such case shall
determine the rights of all such registers and receivers similarly
situated. Said Osage Nation may also appear in said suit by
an attorney employed with the authority of said Nation. The
Court of Claims shall have full authority, by proper orders and
process, to make parties to any such suit all persons whose
presence in the litigation it may deem necessary or proper to
the final determination of the matter in controversy."
The petition was dismissed on its merits by the Court of
Claims (39 C. Cl. 321), and from such .dismissal the appellant
was allowed an appeal to this court. The following facts were
found by the court:
The United States and the Great and Little Osage Indians

STEWART v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

entered into a treaty September 29, 1865, which was pro-claimed January 21, 1867. 14 Stat. 687. In the first article
it was stated that the tribe of'the Great and Little Osage Indians, having more land than was necessary for their occupation, and all payments by the Government to them under
former treaties having ceased, leaving them greatly impoverished, and being desirous of improving; their condition by disposing of their surplus land, they therefore granted and sold to
the United States the lands described in that article, and in
consideration of the grant and sale to them of such lands the
United States agreed to pay the Indians the sum of three
hundred thousand dollars, which sum was to be placed to the
credit of such Indians and interest thereon paid. The lands
were to be surveyed and sold, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, on the most advantageous terms, for cash,
as public lands are surveyed and sold under existing laws,
and after reimbursing the United States for the cost of such
survey and sale and the said sum of three hundred thousand
dollars advanced to the Indians the remaining proceeds of sales
were to be placed in the Treasury of the United States to the
credit of the "civilization fund," to be used under the direction
of the Secretary of the Interior.
By article 2 of the treaty the Indians also ceded to the United
States the tract of land therein described, in trust for the
Indians, to be surveyed and sold for their benefit by the Secretary of the Interior under such rules and regulations as he
might from time to time prescribe, under the direction of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, as other lands are
surveyed and sold. Provision was then made in the article for
the proceeds arising from the sale.
By article 16 it was provided that if the Indians should remove from the State of Kansas and settle upon
lands to be
provided for them by the United States in the Indian Territory,
on terms to be agreed upon, then the diminished reservation
should be disposed of by the United States in the same manner and for the same purposes as thereinbefore provided in

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

relation to said trust lands, with exceptions not material to be
noticed. (The Indians did subsequently remove from Kansas.)
It was also provided by the thirteenth article that, as the
Indians had no annuities from which the expenses for carrying
the treaty into effect could be taken, the United States should
appropriate twenty thousand dollars, or so much thereof as
might be necessary, for the purpose of surveying and selling
the land thereby ceded in trust, which amount so expended
was to be reimbursed to theTreasury of the United States from
the proceeds of the first sales of the lands.
On the twenty-third of November and again on the nineteenth of December, 1867, the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, by authority of the Secretary of the Interior,
issued instructions to the registers and receivers in the State
of Kansas for the rendition of services in the sale of land ceded
to the United States by. article 1 of the treaty above mentioned,
and the lands agreed to be held in trust by the United States
and surveyed and sold for the benefit of the said Indians by
article 2 of that treaty. Among other instructions, under date
of December 19,*1867, it was provided that the registers and
receivers were to be "allowed a commission of one per cent.
each on the proceeds of the sales of these lands, with limitations, as. a matter of course, to the legal maximum of $2,500,
inclusive of commissions and fees, etc., on the disposal of the
public lands, the payment of which is to be made by the receiver, in his capacity of disbursing agent, and to be debited
in a special account, together with such other expenses incident
to the sale of the lands alluded to as may be authorized by
law and instructions."
On the twenty-eighth of March, 1871, further instructions
were given in regard to the performance of services, in which
was the further statement that "nothing, however, shall be
herein construed as authorizing the register, and receiver to
receive more than the maximum of $2,500 per annum, now
allowed by law, and the receiver in adjusting his accounts 'will
take care to first ascertain how much short of the maximum

STEWART v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

the receipt from public lands, including the fees received from
declaratory statements on the Osage lands, will bring their
fees and commissions, and will then charge to the Indian fund
,only so much commissions as will bring their compensation
to the maximum." In accordance with these instructions
claimant performed services in the sale of lands ceded by the
Osage Indians under article 1, and of lands held in trust by
the United States under article 2 of the treaty, and of lands
included within the diminished reservation of the Indians
under article 16 of the treaty.
The claimant was paid for each year of his service the full
maximum amount due him, in accordance with the instructions
from the General Land Office. This full maximum would not
in some cases have been reached without resort to the sales of
land under the treaty. This suit has been brought by claimant to recover a commission of one per cent. on the amount
of the sales of the land, and, the filing fees on the lands mentioned in the treaty and now in the Treasury, as a reasonable
compensation for his services in the sale of these lands as
outside of and in additibn to his regular official duties in the
sale of public lands.
The total amount received on the sale of Osage ceded lands
was $1,055,162.01; and the total amount received on sale of
Osage trust and diminished reserve lands was $9,608,156.27;
and the total amount of money held in trust by the Government for said Osage Indians under said treaty of September 29,
1865, is $8,327,439.07, on which interest at five per cent. is
paid by the United States, amounting annually to $416,371.95.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King and
Mr. R. V. Belt were on the brief, for appellant:
The right of registers and receivers to a reasonable compensation for the sale of Indian lands under treaties similar to that
of 1865 with the Great and Little Osage Indians has been
settled and adjudicated by this court upon the basis that these
additional services were performed for the benefit of the In-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

206 U. S.

dians and the statute implied the payment of a reasonable
compensation for such services. United States v. Brindle, 110
U. S. 688; and see United States v. Saunders, 120 U. S. 126,
130. See also Meigs v. United States, 19 C. Cl. 497, 503, 504;
United States v. Rogers, 81 Fed. Rep. 941.
The Brindle case has also been made a basis of action by
Congress in legislation for the payment of claims of similar
officers making sales of lands of Indians. See 27 Stat. 768,
and 28 Stat. 580.
The instructions of the Secretary of the Interior so far as
they related to the question of compensation contained not a
proposal to the claimant to enter into a contract, but an official
ruling and an erroneous one at 'that. Where officers of the
Government in good faith comply with such rulings of their
superior officers, they lose no rights by so doing. United
States v. Lawson,, and United States v. Ellsworth, 101 U. S.
164, 170; Swift Co. v. United States, 111 U. S. 22, 29; Robertson
v. Frank Brothers Co., 132 U. S. 17, 23; United States v. Mosby,
133 U. S. 273, 2,79; United States v. Post, 148 U. S. 124, 133;
Glavey V. United States, 182 U. S. 595.
The duties of a register of a land office refer exclusively
to disposing of the public lands of the United States. Nothing in any statute required him to assist in disposing of
private lands prior to the act of January 27, 1898.
Every presumption must be in favor of the payment of the
officers performing this additional work out of the funds of
the Indians for whose benefit the work was performed. It is
not to be presumed that .the treaty-making power, while inserting in the treaty a provision for payment of the expenses
of the sale, intended that the treaty funds should escape the
payment of all such expenses through the ,operation of a provision for the payment into the Treasury of the excess of the
emoluments earned by the land officers in the performance of
the regular duties of their offices. Such a provision was intended to operate under very different circumstances from
those of the present case. Its purpose was to save the money

STEWART v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the Government itself, not trust funds.

United States v.

Bassett, 2 Story, 389; S. C., Fed. Cas.i No. 14,539.
Mf. Assistant Attorney General Van Orsdel for the United.

States.
Mr. Lorenzo A. Bailey for the Osage Nation.
MR. JUSTICE'PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Except for the treaty between the United States and the
Osage Indians, relative to the lands in question, and the passage of appropriate legislation by the United States, the lands
would never have been sold, as they were not public lands of
the United States for the sale of which Congress had already
provided under its general legislation. The treaty, however,
provided that the lands described in article 1 were to be surveyed and sold under the direction of the Secretary of the
Interior on the most advantageous terms, for cash, as public
lands are surveyed and sold under existing laws; and under
article 2 the lands were to be sold for the benefit of the Indians
by the Secretary of the Interior, under such rules and regulations as he might from time to time prescribe, under the direction of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, as
other lands are surveyed and sold; and under article 16, in case
of the removal of the Indians, the diminished reserve Was to
be disposed of by the United States in the same manner and
for the same purposes as provided in relation to the so-called
trust lands. Thus power was given to the Secretary of the
Interior, acting through the. Commissioner of Public Lands,
to make the same rules and regulations for the sale of the
treaty lands as applied to the survey and sale of "public
lands," and to that end he had power to provide for their sale
by the various receivers and registers' of the land office in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

State of Kansas, in whose jurisdiction such lands lay. Although the treaty provided the sum of $20,000 to pay the expense of carrying out its provisions, yet it is evident that the
purpose of the treaty was that these lands should be sold at
the least expense to the Indians in their sale, and we think
that the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Commissioner of the General Land Office, had the right to provide,
as was done in this case, that the various registers and receivers
.should sell the lands and should not receive more than the
maximum compensation for their services per annum otherwise
allowed by law. In cases where the maximum amount would
not be received without resorting to the treaty fund, such
resort was permitted, and the fund was in fact resorted to in
this case in order to. reach the maximum for the fractional
years of claimant's service.. The Secretary of the Interior having made this rule, and the instructions of December 19, 1867,
being in existence when the claimant herein received his appointment as register, he took it subject to the provision that
his maximum compensation for all services rendered should
not exceed the sum named by law. See sections 2237, 2238,
2240 and 2241, Rev. Stat., prescribing among other things,
the compensation of registers and receivers. This compensation the claimant was paid thirty years since, without objection or protest from him that he was entitled to any further payment on account of services in the sales of these treaty
lands.
The case of United States v. Brindle, 110 U. S. 688, does not
aid claimant. In that case Brindle was, on the twenty-eighth
day of October, 1856, "duly appointed, special receiver and.
superintendent to assist the special commissioner 'to dispose
of the Delaware Indian trust lands at Fort Leavenworth, in
the Territory of Kansas, under the treaty with the Delaware
tribe of Indians. On the eighteenth of February, 1857, he was
appointed and commissioned for four years as receiver of public
moneys for the district of lands subject to sale at Lecompton,
Kansas, and on the fifteenth day of May, 1857, he was duly

STEWART v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

appointed as special receiver and superintendent to assist the
special commissioner to dispose of the trust lands of the Kaskaskia and Peoria, Piankeshaw and Wea Indians, confederated
tribes of Indians at Paoli, Kansas Territory." Brindle was
thus appointed special receiver and superintendent of the
Delaware Indian trust lands before he was made receiver of
public money, and while he was receiver of public money he
was duly appointed as special receiver of the other Indian
tribes, as above stated. The duties of the positions (special receiver, etc., and receiver of the public moneys) were thus kept
separate and apart. As receiver he was to receive public
moneys for land subject to sale at Lecompton, Kansas, while
his duties in regard to the other positions to which he had been
specially appointed referred to the disposition of the Indian
lands, in one case at Fort Leavenworth and in the other case
at Paoli, both in the Territory of Kansas. This court held
that when subsequent to his appointment as receiver of the
public moneys Brindle was appointed special receiver and
superintendent to assist the special commissioner "in disposing of the trust lands he was employed to render a service in
no way connected with the office he held. He was not appointed to any office known to the law. No new duty was
imposed upon him as receiver of the Land Office. The President
was, both by the treaties and the act of 1855, charged with
the duty of selling the lands, and under his instructions Brindle
was employed to assist in the work. By express provisions in
the treaties the expenses incurred by the United States in
making the sales were to be paid- from the proceeds. This
clearly implied the payment of a reasonable compensation for
the services of those employed to carry the trust into effect."
In the case at bar the duty had already, prior to claimant's
appointment, been imposed on the various receivers and
registers as such, of attending to the sale of these lands within
their various districts, and express provision had been made
that in no case was their compensation to exceed the maximum
sum already provided by law. When such provision had been
VOL. covi-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

206 U. S.

made in regard to compensation there is no room for any implication of a promise to pay an additional reasonable cornpensation for the services of such registers and receivers in
the sale of those lands. Such implication was specially negatived before the claimant took office. He received his pay
under the provision of law already stated, without any protest
or claim on his part that he was entitled to anything further
or other than the amount he from time to time received.
'More than thirty years after the last payment, Congress passed
the act of March 3, 1903, the thirteenth section of which is
contained in the foregoing statement of facts. The passage
of the act did not imply any admission that there was anything due the claimant. It simply provided for the presentation of his claim to the court and for a decision on the merits,
without assuming to say that he had any claim of a meritorious
nature.
We agree with the Court of Claims that the claimant has
failed to make out a case, and the judgment dismissing his
petition is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY

took no part in the decision of this case.

GOAT AND SHEEPSKIN IMPORT COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 261.

Submitted April 17, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

The commercial designation of an article, which designation was known at
the time of the passage of a tariff act, is the name by which the article
should be classified for the payment of duty without regard to the scientific
designation and material of which it may be made or the use to which it
may be put.

