KESSLER v. ELDRED.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

KESSLER v. ELDRED.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 196.

Submitted April 17, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

Rights between litigants once established by the final judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction must be recognized in every way, and wherever
the judgment is entitled to respect, by those who are bound thereby.
The defeated party in an infringement suit will be restrained by a court of
equity from interfering with the business of the successful defendant by
bringing infringement suits based on the same patents against the customers of the latter.

case comes to this court from the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit upon a certificate of that court
of questions of law concerning which it desires instructions.
Accompanying the certificate is a -statement of facts. The
statement of the facts and the certificate of the questions of
law are as follows:
Kessler, a citizen of Indiana, prior to 1898 had built up an
extensive business in. the manufacture and sale of electric
cigar lighters, and had customers throughout the United States.
Eldred, a citizen of Illinois, and an inhabitant of the Northern
District, was the owner of patent No. 492,913, issued to Chambers on March 7, 1893, for'an electric lamp lighter. Eldred
was a competitor of Kessler's and manufactured a similar
form of lighter (entirely dissimilar from that described in the
Chambers patent), so that it was not a matter of much importance to customers which lighter they bought. In 1898
Eldred began a suit against Kessler in the District of Indiana
for the infringement of the Chambers patent. The bill alleged
that Kessler's manufacture and sale of the Kessler lighter
infringed all the claims. The answer denied that Kessler's
lighter infringed any of the Chambers claims. On final hearing
the Circuit Court found for Kessler on the issue of non-infringeTHIS

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Came.

206 U. S.

ment and dismissed the. bill. That decree was affirmed in
1900 by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
Eldred v. Kessler, 106 Fed. Rep. 509.
Subsequently, Eldred brought suit on the same patent in
the Northern District of New York against Kirkland, who
was selling a similar lighter, but not of Kessler's make. The
Circuit Court found for Kirkland on the issue of non-infringement and dismissed the bill. The Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit reversed that decree and held the Kirkland lighter to be an infringement. Eldred v. Kirkland, 130
Fed. Rep.. 342.
In June, 1904, Eldred filed a bill for infringement of the
same patent in the Western. District of New York against
Breitwieser, user of Kessler lighters, which were identical with
those held in Eldred v. Kessler, to be no infringement of the
Chambers patent. Many. of Kessler's customers were intimidated by the Breitwieser suit, so that they ceased to send
in further orders for lighters and refused to pay their accounts
for lighters already sold and delivered to them. Kessler
assumed the defense of the Breitwieser suit, and will be compelled in the proper discharge of his duty to his customers
to assume the burden and expense of all suits which may be
brought by Eldred against other customers. In this state of
affairs Kessler, a citizen of Indiana, in July, 1904, filed a bill
against Eldred in the Circuit Court for. the Northern District
of Illinois, the State and district of Eldred's citizenship and
residence, to enjoin Eldred from prosecuting any suit in any
court of the United States against anyone for alleged infringement of the Chambers patent by purchase, use or sale of any
electric cigar lighter manufactured by Kessler and identical
with the lighter in evidence before the Circuit Court for the
District of Indiana and the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit in the trial and. adjudication of the suit of
Eldred against Kessler. -From an adverse decree by the Circuit Court Kessler perfected an appeal to this court.
Upon the foregoing, facts the questions of law concerning

KESSLER v. ELDRED.
206 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

which -this court desires the instruction. and advice of the
Supreiye Court are these:
First. Did the decree in Kessler's favor, --rendered by the
Circuit Court for the District of Indiana in the suit of Eldred
against Kessler, have the effect of entitling Kessler to continue
the business of. manufacturing and selling throughout the
United States the same lighter he had theretofore been manufacturing and selling, without molestation by Eldred through
the Chamber patent?
Second. Did the decree mentioned in the first question have
the effect of making a suit by Eldred against any customer
of Kessler's for alleged infringement of the Chambers patent
by use or sale of Kessler's lighters a wrongful interference by
Eldred with Kessler's business?
Third. Did Kessler's assumption of the defense of Eldred's
suit against Breitwieser deprive Kessler of the right, if that
right would otherwise exist, of proceeding against Eldred in
the State and district of his citizenship and residence for
wrongfully interfering with Kessler's business?
Fourth. If Eldred's acts were wrongful, had Kessler an
adequate remedy at law?
Mr. Robert S. Taylor and Mr.'Elwin M. Hulse for Kessler.
Mr. Charles C. Linthicum and Mr. Louis K. Gillson for
Eldred.
after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY,

The industry of counsel has not discovered any decision on
the exact questions presented by the certificate, and they agree
that those questions are not settled by controlling authority.
The decision of the case turns upon the effect of the judgment
in the suit which Eldred brought against Kessler. Both
manufactured and sold 'electric cigar. lighters. Eldred, being

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

the owner of a patent issued to one Chambers for an electric
lamp lighter, brought a suit against Kessler, in ,which it was
alleged by the plaintiff and denied by the defendant that the
cigar lighters manufactured by Kessler infringed each and
all of the claims of the Chambers patent. On the issue thus
joined there was final judgment for Kessler. This judgment,
whether it proceeds upon good reasons or upon bad reasons,
whether it was right or wrong, settled finally and everywhere,
and so far as Eldred, by virtue of his ownership of the Chambers
patent, was concerned, that Kessler had the right to manufacture, use and sell the electric cigar lighter before the court.
The court, having before it the respective 'rights and duties
on the matter in question of the parties to the litigation, conclusively decreed the right of Kessler to manufacture and sell
his manufactures free from all interference from Eldred by
virtue of the Chambers patent, and the corresponding duty
of Eldred to recognize and yield to that right everywhere and
always. After this conclusive determination of the respective
rights and duties of the parties, Eldred filed a bill for an infringement of the same patent against Breitwieser, on account
of his use of the same kind of Kessler cigar lighter which had
been passed on in the previous case, and Kessler has assumed
the defense of that suit. Whether the judgment between
Kessler and Eldred is a bar to the suit of Eldred v. Breitwieser,
either because Breitwieser was a privy to the original judgment,
or because the articles themselves were by that judgment
freed from the control of that patent, we deem it unnecessary
to inquire. We need not stop to consider whether the judgment in the case of Eldred V. Kessler had any other effect than
to fix unalterably the rights and duties of the immediate parties,
to it, for the reason that only the rights and duties of those
parties are necessarily in question here. It may be that the
judgment in Kessler v. Eldred will not afford Breitwieser, a
customer of Kessler, a defense to Eldred's suit against him.
Upon that question we express no opinion. Neither it nor the
case in which it is raised are before us. But the question here

KESSLER v. ELDRED.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is whether, by bringing a suit against one of Kessler's customers,
Eldred has violated the right of Kessler. The effect which
may reasonably be anticipated of harassing the purchasers
of Kessler's manufactures by claims for damages on account
of the use of them, would be to diminish Kessler's opportunities
for sale. No one wishes to buy anything, if with .it he must
buy a law suit. That the effect to be anticipated was the actual
effect of the Breitwieser suit is shown by the statement of facts.
Kessler's customers ceased to send orders for lighters, and even
refused to pay for those which had already been delivered.
Any action which has such results is manifestly in violation
of the obligation of Eldred, and the'corresponding tight of
Kessler, established by the judgment. Leaving entirely out.
of view any rights which Kessler's customers have or may have,
it is Kessler's right that those customers should, in respect of
the articles before the court in the previous judgment, be let
alone by Eldred, and it is Eldred's duty to let them alone.
The judgmentin the previous case fails of the full effect which.
the law attaches to it if this is not ,so. If rights between
litigants are once established by the final judgment of a court
of competent jurisdiction those rights must be recognized in
every way, and wherever the judgment is entitled to respect,
by those who are bound by it. Having then by virtue of the
judgment the right to sell his wares freely without hindrance
from Eldred, must Kessler stand by and see that right violated,
and then bring an action at law for the resulting damage, or
may he prevent the infliction of the unlawful injury by proceedings in personam in equity? If Eldred succeeds in his suit
against one of Kessler's customers, he will naturally bring suits
against others. He may bring suits against others, whether,
he 'succeeds in one suit or not. There may be and there is
likely to be a multiplicity of suits. It is certain that such
suits if unsuccessful would at the same time tend to diminish
Kessler's sales and to impose upon him the expense of defending many suits in order to maintain the right which by a judgment has already b6en declared to exist. If the suits are
yOL. COVI-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

206 U. S.

successful the result will be practically to destroy Kessler's
judgment right. Moreover, though the impairment or destruction of Kessler's right would certainly follow from the
course of conduct which Eldred has begun, it would be difficult
to prove in an action at law the extent of the damage inflicted.
An action at law would be entirely inadequate to protect fully
Kessler's unquestioned right, and under these circumstances,
though there may be no exact precedent, we think that the
.jurisdiction in equity exists.. Nor do we see any good
reason
suit
of
in
the
defense.
for
the
interposition
Kessler's
why
Eldred v. Breitwieser debars. him from his remedy in equity.
It f6ollows from the foregoing reasoning that the first and
second questions certified should be answered in the affirmative,
and the third and fourth in the negative, and
It is so ordered.

COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA v. STATE OF WEST
VIRGINIA.
IN EQUITY.
No. 7, Original. Argued March 11, 12, 1.907.-Decided May

27.

1907.

This court has original jurisdiction of a suit by the State of Virginia against
the State of West Virginia for an accounting as between the two States,
and, in 6rdei to a full and correct aaijustment of the accounts to adjudicate
and determine the amount, if any, due the former by the latter.
Consent to be sued, in this court by another State is given by a State, by,
and at the time of, its admission into the Union. It will be presumed that
the legislature of a State will provide for the satisfaction of any judgment
that may be rendered against it, and the jurisdiction and power of this
court is not affected by the question of how it will be enforced. If a State
should repudiate its obligation to satisfy judgment rendered against it,
this court will after the event consider the means by which it may be
enforced.
The court having jurisdiction of the controversy, the effect of the provisions
in the constitution of West Virginia, as well as the several statutes enacted

