OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

206 U. S.

made in regard to compensation there is no room for any implication of a promise to pay an additional reasonable cornpensation for the services of such registers and receivers in
the sale of those lands. Such implication was specially negatived before the claimant took office. He received his pay
under the provision of law already stated, without any protest
or claim on his part that he was entitled to anything further
or other than the amount he from time to time received.
'More than thirty years after the last payment, Congress passed
the act of March 3, 1903, the thirteenth section of which is
contained in the foregoing statement of facts. The passage
of the act did not imply any admission that there was anything due the claimant. It simply provided for the presentation of his claim to the court and for a decision on the merits,
without assuming to say that he had any claim of a meritorious
nature.
We agree with the Court of Claims that the claimant has
failed to make out a case, and the judgment dismissing his
petition is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY

took no part in the decision of this case.

GOAT AND SHEEPSKIN IMPORT COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 261.

Submitted April 17, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

The commercial designation of an article, which designation was known at
the time of the passage of a tariff act, is the name by which the article
should be classified for the payment of duty without regard to the scientific
designation and material of which it may be made or the use to which it
may be put.

GOAT & SHEEPSKIN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

195

St'%tement of the Case.

The word "wool" in paragraph 360 of the tariff act of. July 24, 1897, 30 Stat.
151, 183, does not include a substance which, while the growth upon a
sheepskin is, n~vertheless, commercially known, designated, and dealt in,
as Mocha hair, having none of the characteristics of wool, and which
would not be accepted by dealers therein as a good delivery of wool.

THIS case comes here by virtue of a writ of certiorari issued
from this court to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit, for the purpose of reviewing the action
of the courts and of the customs authorities in relation to an
assessment of duty on certain importations made by the petitioner, appellant, -at the port of New York.
The merchandise on which duty was assessed was a growth
upon certain skins of -the Mocha sheep, imported from Hodeida,
Arabia, which growth was clEssified by the collector as wool on
the skin of the third class and assessed for duty at three cents
per pound, under the provisions of paragraph 360 of the tariff
act of July 24, 1897 (30 Stat., pages 151, 183). The importer
duly protested against the classification and insisted that the
merchandise was entitled to entry free of duty under paragraph
571, 30 Stat., supra, page 198, or under paragraph 664 of such
act. (Page 201.) Paragraphs 351, 358, 360, under which t1le
Government claims duty, and paragraphs 571 and 664, under
which the importer claims free entry, are set forth in the margin.1
1(Paragraphs from Tariff Act of 1897, under which the Government claims.
30 Stat. 151, 183.)
351. Class three, that is to say, Donskoi, native South American, Cordova,
Valparaiso, native Smyrna, Russian camels' hair and all such wools of like
character as have been heretofore usually imported into the United States
from Turkey, Greece, Syria and elsewhere, excepting improved wools hereinafter provided for.
358. On wools of the third class and on camcjs' hair of the third class, the
value whereof shall be twelve cents or less per pound, the duty shall be four
cents per pound.
360. The duty on wools on the skin shall be one cent less per pound than
is imposed in this schedule on other wools of the, same class and condition,
the quantity and value to be ascertained under such rules as the Secretary
of the Treasury may prescribe.
Petitioner claims under following paragraphs:
571. Hair of horse, cattle and other animals, cleaned or uncleaned, drawn

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

The collector having returned the merchandise in question
as wool of the third class, under paragraph 360, the importer
appealed to the Board of General Appraisers, where the ruling
of the collector was sustained, and the importer then appealed
to the Circuit Court and then to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
each of which courts sustained the ruling of the Board of General Appraisers and the collector.
Before the Board of General Appraisers the importer pro'duced six witnesses, who testified as to the character, use and
commercial designation of the merchandise. On the appeal to
the Circuit Court a referee was there appointed, and the importer offered further evidence to sustain his claim that the
merchandise was entitled to free entry.
No testimony was offered by the Government. It is not
claimed by the Government that the merchandise in question
comes under paragraph 351 as wool of the third class (except
as it may be wool of like character), as it is not Donskoi, native South American, Cordova, Valparaiso, native Smyrna or
Russian.camel's hair, but it is asserted that the growth on the
skins was wool on the skin under paragraph 360, or was a
wool of like character as that above enumerated in paragraph
351.
The evidence shows that the hair or wool (whichever it is
called), grows on the Mocha white sheep, imported from Hodeida, Arabia. The growth to be found.on this breed of sheep
is not bought or sold in this country as wool, but as hair. It
would not be accepted as a delivery of wool of any grade by
those dealing in that article. Although there might have been
a very small proportion of what might possibly be termed very
inferior wool. on these skins (not more than ten per centum in
any case, and frequently less), yet there was n'o substantial
use of any portion of the-. growth on the skins for purposes for
or undrawn, but unmanufactured, not specially provided for in this act, and
human hair, raw, uncleaned and not drawn.
664. Skins of all kinds, raw (except sheepskins with the wool on), and hidea
not specially provided for in this act.

GOAT & SHEEPSKIN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
26 U. S.

197

Statement of the Case.

which wool is generally used. To some extent, but very-little,
it had been tried in mills to spin, and it might be used sometimes by carpet manufacturers in a small way, and efforts had
been made to use it, mixed with wool, in spinning, but it was
not practically successful, nor was it practicable to use it for
other purposes for which wool is used. The chief, or predomi*nant, and almost sole use of the substance is as hair for stuffing,
and for the saddlery trade, and by bed manufacturers for stuffing purposes. It is bought and sold all over the country as
Mocha' hair. The skin upon which the substance grows is the
thing that is valuable. A large part of the skins imported into
this country is used in the manufacture of glove leather. One
witness testified that his firm so used from seventy-five to
ninety per cent. of the skins imported, and the growth thereon
was bought and sold as Mocha hair. It costs more to remove
the growth from the skin than it sells for after its removal. It
cannot be used for spinning purposes, because it would not
hold together. It might be carded, but there would not be
much left after carding. The price of the skins on which this
growth is found is not influenced by the quantity of the growth
on them. The more of a growth there is, the less the skin will
bring, or, as is said, the more hair, the poorer the skin. The
skins are' sold by the importers to tanners of gloves and shoe
leather, just as they arrive. After the growth is washed and
removed from the skin it may be sold for from three to five
cents per pound, which is less than the cost
of removing it. In
buying the skins no notice is taken of the growth, the only consideration being the value of the pelt, and the pelts are worth
no more with long hair on than short hair. The growth has
never been accepted or sold as wool, but, on the contrary, prior
to July 24, 1897, when the tariff act was passed, it Was uniformly
regarded and bought and sold in the United States as hair.
"Mocha hair" was the trade nomenclature prior to- 1899, and
as such the trade' name was definite and uniform throughout
the United States, and dealers in it never knew it to be called
anything else than Mocha hair. It has not the appearance of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

wool, does not feel like wool and has none of the qualities of
wool. It is bought from tanners after it has been taken from
the skin by them, and it is thus sold and bought as Mocha hair,
and the skins are used for leather by the tanners.
One of the witnesses called on behalf of the importers was
an examiner of wool fibres and skins at the port of New York,
which position he had held for about fifteen years. He said
that when he first went into the government employ such skins
as those in question were returned free, the hair as well as the
skin, but 'that practice has since been changed. The witness
further said, that if the growth in question were found on a goat
he would return it as hair of a goat, and entitled to free entry;
that wool could be run down, or deteriorate, to such a condition
as the growth in question, but that it was, in fact, mostly "what
they call dead hair or kemp;" that although it could possibly
be carded, it was not commercially suitable, and there would
not be much left after they got through carding it. On crossexamination the witness said that he would return the article
in question asMocha sheepskin with the wool on. On such a
skin as the one in question the-witness said there was a substance which he would call wool, which was about ten per cent.
only ofthe growth; that he examines such skins as the ones in
question and throws out those he considers dutiable when there
is enough Wool to call it dutiable, and lets the skins go not dutiable when you could not make anything out of the growth in
any way, although some use might possibly be made of it.
The cross-examination of other witnesses was to the effect
.that this growth had been tried in mills for the purpose of spinning, but very little, being tised with other stock to make into
yarn, but it has not been successfully used for that purpose; it
might be used sometimes by carpet manufacturers in a small
way, and while it could not be used or spun alone, it might be
carded. It was also said on cross-examination of one of the
witnesses that if such growth ran pretty white it is sometimes
used in those low grade carpet yarns where they put in such
stuff as jute packing is made of and some hair like the growth

GOAT & SHEEPSKIN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

199

Argument for Petitioner.

in question. The evidence is, however, overwhelming and the
witnesses substantially unanimous that this substance is not
known as wool, and is neither bought nor sold as such, and is
commercially known as Mocha hair and is not used as wool.
Mr. J. Stuart Tompkins, with whom Mr. Edward S. Hatch
was on the brief, for petitioner:
The growth of the skins must be classified according to its
commercial designation. Hedden v. Richards, 149 U. S. 346,
348, 349; American Net and Twine Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S.
468, 471; Arthur v. Morrison, 96 U. S. 108; Two Hundred Chests
of Tea, 9 Wheat. 430, 438; In re Wise, 73 Fed. Rep. 183, 188,
and cases cited.
The evidence in this case is wholly uncontroverted that the
substance of these Mocha whitehead sheepskins, according to
the general and uniform trade understanding, is not wool, but,
on the contrary, is hair, and it follows that the collector's
classification of the substance as wool of Class 3 was erroneous.
The article has always been generally and uniformly bought
and sold only under the name of "Mocha hair," and is so known
and recognized not only in commerce, but also according to
common understanding; it is used for purposes other than
those to which wool is applied-and this -Mocha hair would
not be accepted as a good delivery under an order for even
low-grade wool.
Under this general and uniform commercial understanding
and usage, excluding this article from the category of merchandise regarded in trade as "wool," and including it in that
known as "hair," it was improperly classified by the collector
under paragraph 358 of the tariff law of 1897, as "wool."
Chew Hing Lung v. Wise, 176 U. S. 156, 161; Arthur v. Morrison,
96 U. S. 108, 110; Elliott v. Swartout, 10 Peters, 137, 151;
Hedden v. Richard, 149 U. S. 346, 349.
It is not material that it is physically possible to use the
article for some of the purposes for which wool is used, or that
it occasionally may be used for such purpose. An occasional

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Respondent.

206 U. S.

or possible use is not sufficient to affect the classification of an
article for tariff purposes. Chew Hing Lung v. Wise, 176 U. S.
156, 162; Magone v. Wiederer, 159 U. S. 555; Hartranftv. Langfeld, 125 U. S. 128.
The evidence establishes the fact that the growth on the_
skins is hair, and not wool. The substance is commercially
known as hair and dealt in under that designation, and never

as wool.
The commercial designation is in accordance with the actual
character *ofthe article, because it has none of the characteristics of wool and it is not used as wool and is not suitable for
the uses tb which wool is put.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Sanford for respondent:
Under the wool paragraphs of the tariff act the word "wool"
is manifestly used in a generic sense to describe the fleece of the
sheep, as distinguished from the word "hair," which is used to
describe the coat of the camel and other like animals, and not
in a technical and commercial sense as referring only to that
portion of the fleece of the sheep which possesses the specific
qualities of wool as distinguished from those of hair.
The rule of commercial designation is not applicable to the
classification of wool.
Where it appears from the statute itself that words in a tariff
act are not used in a technical sense as a commercial designation
or trade term, their meaning is not to be controlled by their
commercial usage. Maillard v. Lawrence, 16 How. 250; Greenleaf v. Goodrich, 101 U. S. 278; Barber v. Schell, 107 U. S. 617;
Newman v. Arthur, 109 U. S. 132; Reimer v. Schell, 4 Blatchf.
328; Roosevelt v. Maxwell, 3 Blatchf. 391; Carson v. Nixon,
90 Fed. Rep. 409; Patton v. United States, 159 U. S. 500; Cadwalader v. Zeh, 151 U. S. 171; United States v. Klumpp, 169
U. S. 209.
General words of similitude, such as "goods of a similar description," are not words of commercial designation whose
meaning can be controlled by proof that goods which are in fact

GOAT & SHEEPSKIN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

201

Argument for Respondent.

of similar description have a different commercial classification.
The proof of commercial designation in the present case is in
any event insufficient, for the reason that where an importer
claims that certain specific articles are excluded by their commercial designation from a class mentioned in a tariff act, it is
not sufficient for such purpose, even in those cases where the
test of commercial designation is applicable; to show negatively
that these specific articles were commercially known by another name and were not commercially known by the name
used in the act, but it must be affirmatively proven that the
words used in the act had at the time of its passage a definite
and uniform meaning which excluded the specific articles in
question. In other words, the proof of commercial meaning
must not be addressed simply to the commercial designation of
the particular article in question, as was done in the case at
bar, but to the commercial meaning of the term used in the act.
Greenleaf v. Goodrich, 101 U. S. 278; Schmieder v. Barney, 113
U. S. 645; Claflin v. Robertson, 38 Fed. Rep. 92; Carson v.
Nixon, 90 Fed. Rep. 409 (C. C. A.); Field v. United States, 90
Fed. Rep. 412 (C. C. A.).
The testimony offered by the importer in reference to the
general character of these fleeces and their commercial use is
insufficient to overthrow the presumption in favor of a correct
classification.
As the test of classification under the statute is likeness of
character to Donskoi and other enumerated wools of the third
class, to be determined by the standard samples of wool of the
third class deposited in the custom house, the importer's testimony as to the qualities of this fleece and its commercial use,
which is entirely of an abstract and general character and not
directed either to the point of its likeness to Donskoi and other
enumerated wools or of conformity to the standard samples,
is in any event immaterial.
It is 'well- settled that where a wool or hair is of a species
coming within a particular class of the wool schedule its es-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

pecial quality and commercial use is immaterial and will not
take it out of such class. Cooper v. Dobson, 157 U. S. 148.
There was, furthermore, material evidence tending to show
that the fleece in question in fact has the qualities and is
adapted to the uses of a low-grade third-class Wool, and hence,
under the settled rule of practice, the concurrent finding of the
Board of General Appraisers, the Circuit Qourt, and the Circuit
Court of Appeals that it is a wool of this class, is now conclusive.
In the Circuit Court of Appeals the judgment below was
affirmed on'the opinion of the Circuit Court.
The case therefore calls for the application of "the settled
doctrine of this court

.

.

.

that the concurring decision

of two courts on a question of fact will be followed unless shown
to be clearly erroneous." Dravo v. Fabel, 132 U. S. 487; CompaniaLa Flecha v. Brauer, 168 U. S. 104; Stuart v. Hayden, 169
U. S. 1; Baker v. Cummings, 169 U. S. 189, 198; Wupperman v.
The Carib Prince, 170 U. S. 655; Workman v. New -York City,
179 U. S. 552, 555; Brainerd v. Buck, 184 U. S. 99; Beyer v.

Le Fevre,186 U. S. 114; Shappiriov. Goldberg, 192 U. S. 232.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
.The evidence in this case, taken before the board of ap-.
praisers and also before the Circuit Court, is uncontradicted.
It shows- that, the substance in question is not wool, has none
of its characteristics and is not put to any of its uses and does
not appear like wool. On the contrary, it is composed mostly
of dead hair. or kemp and cannot be remuneratively carded, nor
is it commercially suited for carding, nor' for spinning. Its
commercial designation is Mocha hair, and it is not known or
regarded "or' recognized as wool in any of the markets of the
country.
It is not denied that the commercial designation of an article,
which designation was known at the time of the passage of a
tariff act, is the name by which the article should be classified

GOAT & SHEEPSKIN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
206 'U. S.

203

Opinion of the Court.

for the payment of duty, and, as is stated, "without regard to
their scientific designation and material of which they may be
made or the use to which they may be applied." Two Hundred
Chests of Tea, -9 Wheat. 430, 438; Arthur v. Morrison, 96 U. S.
108; American Net and Twine Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468;
Hedden v. Richard,149 U. S. 346,348. As was said by Mr. Justice
Story in Two Hundred Chests of Tea, supra, Congress did not
"suppose our merchants to be naturalists or geologists or botanists. It applied its attention to the description of articles as
they derived their appellations in our own markets, in our domestic as well as our foreign traffic." And in Hedden v..Richard,
.
.
must
supra, it was said: "The language of commerce
particularly when employed in the
be construed, . .
denomination of articles, ,according to the commercial understanding of the terms used." The commercial, designation
should prevail, unless Congress has clearly manifested a contrary intention. Cadwaladerv. Zeh, 151 U. S. 171, 176.
We are of opinion that the use of the word "wool" in the
tariff act, excluded a substance which, while it was a growth
upon a sheepskin, was -nevertheless, commercially known, designated and dealt in as Mocha hair, having none of the characteristics of wool, and which would not be accepted by dealers
therein as a good delivery of wool.
In this case the evidence is uncontradicted that the growth
on these skins was commercially known as Mocha hair, and
that it was not used in the way wool is used, or as a substitute
for wool. It ought not, simply for the reason that the skin upon
which it grows is the skin of a sheep, to be classified as wool,
under paragraph.360 of the tariff act, and thereby be subjected
to a duty as high as the value of the substance itself.
Although it has been so classified, and that classification has
been affirmed all through, yet the question is not presented to
this court as if it were a question of fact decided upon contradictory evidence, and concluding this court for that reason.
There is, in truth, no contradictory evidence in the case. It is
one, where in our opinion, the courts below. have given undue.
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of.the Court.

206 U. S.

weight to the evidence elicited on cross-examination of witnesses
called on the part of the 'importer, which showed that there.
possibly was, in some cases, a very little inferior wool found on
these skins, while the courts ignored the other facts, as testified
to by the same witnesses and already mentioned, which showed
beyond the possibility of successful contradiction that the substance was erroneously classified as wool.
Upon the facts, the substance ought not to have been so
classified. The growth being still on the skin-should have been
regarded as part of such skin, and classified under paragraph
664, in the free list, and not as Asheepskin with the wool on.
We do not agree that the word "wool" in this act is used in
a generic sense so far -as this particular point is concerned.
The word does not necessarily include all growth upon th3. coat
of a sheep, even though the substance is like that in question
here.
Counsel for the Government cites from the Encyclopa-dia
Britannica, where, in speaking of the difficulty in determining
the dividing line between hair and wool, it is said: "At what
point indeed it can be said that.an animal: fiber ceases to be hair
and beromes wool it is impossible to determine, because in
every characteristic the one class by ianperceptible gradations
meiges into the other, so that a continuous chain can be formed
from the finest and softest merino to the rigid bristles of the
wild boar."
It may be difficult in some ,cases to define the line between
-wool" and "hair" as a growth upon skins, but we do not regard that difficulty as an argument for the construction contended for by counsel for the Government. That argument
leads to the classification of a substance like that in question,
as wool, when in fact it bears no resemblance to it, is 'not used
as wool, and has none of its characteristics, and is known
commercially as Mocha hair and is so bought and sold over the
whole country. The case is one of degree, and because in some
few cases the points may closely approach each other and there
may be in such cases some difficulty in telling wool, from hair,

GOAT & SHEEPSKIN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

205

Opinion of the Court.

yet that fact furnishes no reason for refusing to adopt the
general test which in most cases is easily applied, fitness, identity of use, commercial designation. To-adopt the claim of
counsel eliminates all inquiry as to whether an article'is wool
or hair, and leaves simply -the question whether it is to be found
on what may be called the wool bearing animals or on the alpaca
or other like hair coated animals. Some sheep are wool bearing
animals, therefore the hair on the skin of the Mocha sheep is
wool and must be classified as such. We do not agree with this
claim. If an article does not, to a dealer, look like wool, cannot
be used as wool, is not commercially known as wool, but, on
the contrary, is bought and sold throughout the country as
Mocha hair and is so designated commercially by those dealing
in it, it ought not to be classified as wool or made to pay duty.
as such, simply because it grows on a sheep.
We have looked over the various authorities cited by counsel
for the Government, but we see nothing in any of them tending
to the conclusion that upon the fac t in this case the growth
on the skin of the Mocha sheep :was properly classified as wool.
Taking all the evidence in this case, uncontradicted as it is,
we feel compelled to the conclusion that the classification in
tl.is case, adopted by the courts below and by thle appraisers and
collector was wrong, and that the merchandise in question was
entitled to free entry.
The judgments of the courts below are reversed.and the case
remanded to the Circuit Court with instructions to take such
further proceedings as may be necessary, not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

took no part in the decision of this case.

