OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

206 U. S.

territory, we think the Commission was clearly within the
authority conferred by the act to regulate commerce in directing the carriers to cease and desist from further enforcing the
classification operating such results.
Affirmed.

YATES v. JONES NATIONAL BANK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 230. Argued March 8, 11, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.
If one of the plaintiffs in error does not furnish a cost bond, appear by
counsel, or file any brief in this court, he will be presumed to have abandoned the prosecution of the writ and it will be dismissed as to him.
Where in the trial and appellate courts an immunity was claimed under
§ 5239, Rev. Stat., as to the rule of liability to be applied to directors
of a national bank and such immunity was denied, this court has jurisdiction to review the judgment under § 709, Rev. Stat., even if in other
respects it might not have jurisdiction.
Where a statute creates a duty and prescribes a penalty for its non-performance the rule prescribed by the statute is the exclusive test of liability.
The National Banking Act as embodied in § 5239, Rev. Stat., affords the
" exclusive rule by which to measure the right to recover damages from
directors, based upon a loss resulting solely from their violation of a
duty expressly imposed upon them by a provision of the act; and that
liability cannot be measured by a higher standard than that imposed by
the act.
Where by a statute a responsibility is made to arise from its violation
knowingly, proof of something more than negligence is required and that
the violation was in effect intentional.
105 N. W. Rep. 287, reversed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Halleck F. Rose and Mr. J. W. Deweese, with whom
Mr. Frank E. Bishop was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error
in this case and in Nos. 231,232 and 233 argued simultaneously
herewith: 1
I Seep., 181, post.

YATES v. JONES NATIONAL BANK.
206 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

If defendants acting in their official capacity as directors
of the Capital National Bank mismanaged the bank and
wasted its assets by reason of their neglect so that thereby
the bank became insolvent, the damage resulting was an asset
of the bank, and could not be recovered by the individual
depositors who lost money in the failure of the bank, but
only by the bank or its ,receiver. • Conway v. Halsey, 44 N. J.
Law, 463, 464; Kennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 506; Cockerell v.
Cooper, 86 Fed. Rep. 13; Homer v. Henning, 93 U. S. 228.
If otherwise, then every other creditor as well as every
stockholder of the bank could, for the same reasons, recover
from these defendants, so that (Smith v. Hurd, 12 Metcalf,
371) there might be as many actions and recoveries as there
were creditors or shareholders for one and the same default
of the directors. This would defeat the policy of the national
banking act, providing for a ratable distribution of all of the
assets among the various creditors, and the assets in the nature
of such damage would be wasted in fruitless and expensive
litigation.
In the passage of the national banking act Congress provided for one complete system for the government, control
and management of national banks.
No state legislature, nor any state court, can in any manner
interfere with the system adopted, nor the purposes for which
national banks are organized, nor divert or change the distribution of the assets of a national bank in a manner that
.would "conflict with the provisions of the national banking
* act. That which is beyond the plane of state jurisdiction by
direct legislation cannot be brought within such plane by indirection, and therefore the directors of a national bank
cannot be held by a state court responsible for acts- done in
their official capacity, so as to enforce a different liability from
that imposed upon them by the National Banking* Act. If
that were permitted it would be possible to control or nullify
a United States law and prevent the enforcement of its provisions. In re Waite, 81 Fed. Rep. 371; Cook County National

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

208 U. S.

Bank v. United States, 107 U. S. 448; Leisy v. Hardin, 135
U. S.100; Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S. 29.
If the judgment can be sustained on account of fraud and
deceit in the making and publishing of the reports, the directors
who attested the reports cannot be deprived of the protection
given to them as directors of a national bank by § 5239 of
the national banking act, which grounds their liability upon
guilty knowledge of acts done in violation of said law.
The reports were made and attested as required by §5211,
Rev. Stat., being a part of the act governing national banks
for the purpose of showing the condition of the bank. It was
made the duty of the managing officers of the bank who prepared the reports to verify the same by their oaths, and the
law required that when thus made and verified, they should
then be attested by three directors.
- These actions are personal actions against the individual
directors for damages growing out of their alleged violation
of their duties under the law and the by-laws of a national
bank.
By §.5239, the directors were made personally liable for
damages sustained by the bank, or any other person where
they "knowingly violated, or knowingly permitted" the
officers to violate any of the provisions of the national banking
act.
The protection of the law governing the liability of the defendants for acts done in their official capacity is a substantial
right, and the courts should be astute not to permit devices
to become -successful which are used for the very purpose of
destroying that right. Arapahoe Co. v. Railroad Co., 4 Dill.
277.
The state courts are. as firmly bound by the laws of Congress
as are the Federal courts.
The Constitution and laws of the United States are as much
a part of the law of each State and as binding upon its authorities and people, as its own local constitution and laws.
Farmer'sNational Bank v. Dearing,91 U. S.29.

YATES v. JONES NATIONAL BANK.
206.U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Mr. Lionel C. Burr and Mr. John J. Thomas, with whom
Mr. Charles L. Burr, Mr. Richard S. Norval and Mr. William B. C. Brown were on the brief, for defendants in error
in this case and in Nos. 231, 232 and 233 argued simultaneously
herewith: 1
- An action for deceit may be maintained against the directors of a bank by depositors induced to become such by
false representations or statements of the bank's condition
made by such directors.
The directors of a bank who publish false statements of
its condition thereby represent that the matters of fact therein
stated are within their personal knowledge, and, if they have
no such knowledge, the statement is knowingly false.
While there must be scienter, this does not mean actual
knowledge, and where the representation is of a fact, made
by one in position to know, whose duty it is to know, or where
it would constitute gross negligence not to know, such knowledge will be conclusively presumed. Prescott v. Haughey, 65
Fed. Rep. 653; Gerner v. Thompson, 74 Fed. Rep. 125; Bank
of Hillsboro v. Thomas, 28 W. L. B. (Ohio) 164; Solomon v.
Bates, 118 N. Car. 312; Bartholomew v. Bentley, 15 Ohio, 659;
45 Am. Dec. 596, 598.
As to the duty of the directors to know, see: Auten v. Bank,
174 U. S. 147; Briggs v. Spaulding, 141 U. S. 141; McClure v.
People, 27 Colorado, 371; Hall v. Henderson, 126 Alabama,
495.
Section 5239, Rev. Stat. U.:S., neither abrogates nor modifies the common law action of deceit.
Sutherland on Stat. Const., § 399, 1st ed., or § 572, 2d ed.
Sedgwick on Construction of Stat. and Constl. Law, 323.
Where the statute creates the .right and the remedy, the
statutory remedy must be followed, but, where the. right existed at common law and an additional statutory remedy
is given, the latter is regarded as cumulative. People v.
Craycrojt, 2 California 243.
' See p. 181, post.

VOL. ccvi-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

Remedies are cumulative where the statute gives a remedy
with a penalty, a previous common law remedy existing.
Dygert v. Schenck, 23 Wend. 445; Swarthout v. N. J. Steamboat Co., 48 N. Y. 209.
Where the legislature fails to provide a remedy for an injury occasioned by public use, the injured party will be remitted to his common law remedy. Hooker v. New Haven, &c.
Co., 14 Connecticut, 146.
Where a statute gives a right and provides no remedy, the
party may pursue any remedy of the common law adapted
to .the nature of the wrong or injury. Maple v. John, 42 W. Va.
30.
Although the petitions should state matters which would
constitute a cause of action under the. national banking act
(which we deny) they clearly state a common law action of
deceit, which, being supported by the evidence, is sufficient
to sustain the judgments.
Assuming that the petitions do contain a cause of action for
negligence, they then contain two causes of action, of one of
which* the state court has exclusive jurisdiction; the other
raises a Federal question. If defendants desired to have these
causes separately stated and numbered they should have filed
a motion to that effect, and having failed to do so they will
be deemed to have waived it. Exeter NationalBank v. Orchard,
43 Nebraska, 581.
If a petition states facts sufficient to constitute an action
for deceit, and is therein sustained by the evidence, the judgment will be sustained, although. the petition also contains
a Federal question. Hammond et al. v. Johnston et at., 142
U. S. 73; Nay. Co. v. Raybold, 142 U. S. 636; Cook County V.
Calumet, &c. Co., 138 U. S. 157; De Saussure v. Gaillard, 127
U. S. 216; Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error is prosecuted to secure the reversal of
a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska

YATES v. JONES NATIONAL BANK.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

affirming one entered by a court of Seward County, in that
State, upon a verdict of a jury awarding damages against
the defendants below, plaintiffs in error here, because of certain acts charged to have been done by them as officers and.
directors of the Capital National Bank of Lincoln, Nebraska.
We briefly summarize a statement contained in the opinion
of the court- below concerning a prior action between the same
parties. That action, and three others of like character,
brought by different plaintiffs, were begun in a county different
from that in which the present one was commenced, and
recovery was sought, with one exception, from those who
were defendants below in. this case,' of the sum of a loss occasioned by the' inso'lvency and suspension of the Capital
National Bank, a corporation organized under the national
tank act., The actions referred to were removed into a Circuit
Court of the United States, and in each a motion to remand
was overruled, and in one of the cases (brought by Thomas
Bailey) the Circuit Court sustained a demurrer to the petition
,and dismissed the. cause, and the judgment so doing was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. -63 Fed. Rep. 488.
The plaintiffs in the other cases thereupon dismissed their
actions and commenced new ones, as also did Bailey, in Seward County, of which the case before us is one. The same
persons, who Were impleaded in the prior actions, were made
defendants, and in two of the actions one Thompson, a director
of the bank, who had not been previously sued, was joiiped as
a defendant. The defendants were sought to be made liable
for acts done as officers and directors of the Capital National
Bank, although it was not expressly alleged that the bank
was organized under the national bank act. Reliance in each
action was placed upon alleged untrue written and oral statements and representations of the financial condition of the
bank alleged to have been made and published by the defendants, which were fully set out in various forms of expression,
but in none of the averments was it specifically asserted that
the acts in question were done in consequence of and in com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

pliance with the provisions of the national bank act, although
the exhibits attached to the petition disclosed the character
of the written reports, which -were in part relied upon. The
state court overruled an application to remove, and a transcript
of the record having been filed in the Circuit Court, on motion
the action was, by that court, remanded to the state court,
upon the ground.that the petition was "clearly based, not upon
the provisions of the national banking act, but upon the lia'bility claimed to arise under the principles of the common law."
See Bailey v. Mosher, 74 Fed. Rep. 15.
An amended petition was filed, changing somewhat the
averments originally made, and supplementing the same by
new allegations. After a considerable lapse of time a second
amended petition was filed. This latter enumerated many
acts of negligence and mismanagement in the conduct of the
affairs of the failed bank charged to have caused its insolvency,.
in addition to the averments which had been made in the
original petition. The defendants demurred on the ground
of want of jurisdiction, because the result of the pleading as
amended was to demonstrate that the whole cause of action
relied upon was based upon the violation by the defendants
of provisions of the national bank act, and because under
that act no cause of action in favor of the plaintiff was stated.
The day the demurrer was filed the action was removed by
the defendants into the Circuit Court of the United States.
That court overruled a-motion to remand, (see Bailey v. Mosher,
95 Fed. Rep. 223,) and subsequently the court sustained the
demurrer and dismissed the action. Reviewing the action
of the Circuit Court, however, the Circuit Court of Appeals
held that in any event the removal had 'been made too late,
"and that the judgment of the lower court dismissing the
plaintiff's case was rendered without lawful jurisdiction over
the case." 107 Fed. Rep. 561. As a result the case went
back to the state court, and in that court the demurrer to the
second amended petition was argued and overruled.
There was judgment: against Stuart, one of the defendants,

YATES v. JONES NATIONAL BANK.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for failure to answer the original petition, and this judgment
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Nebraska. Stuart v.
Bank of Staplehurst, 57 Nebraska, 570. A separate answer
to the second amended petition was filed on behalf of the defendant Thompson and a joint answer on behalf of the defendants Yates and Hamer. In the answer of Thompson it was
averred that while a stockholder he was not a director of
the Capital National Bank at the time the plaintiff made its
various deposits; it was denied that any of the reports set out
and referred to in the petition were signed or attested by
Thompson. and specifically for himself he denied "all alleged
misconduct and mismanagement of said bank on his part, and
all of the alleged neglect of duty and the causing of the insolvency of said bank as charged in the said amended petition."
The following paragraph was also set up in the answer:
"This defendant further says that the cause of action set
out in the plaintiff's amended petition, if it have any, is founded
upon alleged facts, which, if true, constitute a violation by
this defendant as a director or stockholder, of his duties as
such director or stockholder as laid down and defined in the
national banking laws of the United States above referred
to, concerning the government and management of national
banks. And this defendant alleges that if any liability attaches to him as a director or stockholder of said bank for any
act done or duty neglected as set forth in said amended petition or otherwise, that such liability is determined and controlled by the national banking act concerning the management
of national banks; and thaz in determining the liability of
this defendant there is necessarily involved the construction
of said national banking act relating to the duties of director
and stockholders of national banks. That a Federal question
is involved in determining the liability of this defendant by
reason of the alleged mismanagement of said bank and the
alleged neglect of duty on the part of this defendant."
Matter alleged to constitute an estoppel against the further
prosecution of the action and to operate as a -bar to recovery

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

was set up in special defenses, which need not, however, be
further noticed.
The answers of Yates and Hamer were similar in effect to
that of Thompson; except as to the allegation that Thompson
was not a director when the plaintiff made his deposits.
The cause was put at issue. Before the trial three of the
defendants-Walsh, Hamer and Phillips-died, and the action
was revived against the administrators of Walsh and Hamer,
but was not prosecuted further against the estate of Phillips.
The companion actions brought by different plaintiffs were
tried -with the case at bar by a jury, and there was verdict
against all the defendants then before the court, upon which
judgment was entered except as to the administrator, of Walsh,
in whose favor judgment was entered by the court. upon
special findings as to him made by the jury. After the correction of an error in the amount of the judgment the case
was taken to. the Supreme Court of Nebraska, where, tle
judgment was affirmed. 105 N.. W. Rep. 287. This writ of
error was then sued out apparently on behalf of all the defendants. We assume, however, that Charles W. Mosher and
R.C. Outcalt, two of the defendants below, have abandoned
the prosecution of the writ. We so assume because- no cost
bond appears to have been furnished by either; because
neither have appeared at the bar by counsel and no brief
in their behalf has been filed, and on the contrary-in the
brief of the defendants in error it is stated that the persons
named did not prosecute error, which we take to mean that
the parties referred to have abandoned in this court the prosecution of the writ of error which was sued out in their names,
and because the bill of exceptions does not contain the answers
of those defendants nor the evidence relating to their case,
which would be pertinent to consider if we were called upon to'
determine whether prejudicial error was committed as to them.
None of the remaining plaintiffs in error were officers of the
bank and they were sued simply for' acts done as directors
thereof.

YATES v. JONES NATIONAL BANK.
206 U.'S.

Opinion of the Court.

A motion to dismiss first requires attention.

The asserted

want of jurisdiction in this court is based upon the contention

that no Federal question was raised in or decided by the
state court. But, as- will hereafter appear, the record plainly
shows tha't both in the trial and appellate courts an immunity
was claimed under section 5239 of the Revised Statutes, at
least in respect to the rule of liability applied below, and such
immunity was expressly. denied by the state court, and there
is, therefore, jurisdiction, even if in other respects jurisdiction
might not be exercised, as to which we are not called upon to
decide. Schlemmer v. Buffalo, R. & P. R. Co., 205 U. S. 1;
Tullock v. Mulvane, 184 U. S. 497; Metropolitan National
Bank v. Claggett, 141 U. S. 520; Logan County National Bank v.
Townsend, 139 U. S.67.
To dispose of the controversy presented by the record
before us we need only consider the following assignments
of error:
"7. The court has erred in deciding that-the fact that those
plaintiffs in error who were directors were without knowledgeof any falsity of the reports attested by them or some of them,
mentioned in the petition, was immaterial, and that such
directors or any or them were liable under the proofs showing
they were without knowledge of the falsity of such reports;
the said decision is in violation of the provisions of section 5239
of the Revised Statutes of the United States, which makes
liability of the directors dependent upon the fact that they
knowingly violated or knowingly permitted the violation of
the provisions of the national banking. act, and participated
in or assented to such violation.
"8. The court has erred in deciding that a common law
action of deceit based upon reports of the Capital National
Bank made to the Comptroller of the Currency and attested
by the directors of such bank can be nraintained against such
directors, without knowledge of any false statements in such
reports, and without any participation in or assent to any
violation of the national banking act as essential elements

168 •

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

of the cause of action as required by section 5239 of the Revised Statutes of the United States."
The basis for these assignments is found, not only in instructions given by the trial court, but in refusals to give
instructions asked by the defendants. The instructions given,
which are pertinent to the assignments and which were duly
excepted to below, read as follows:
"Bank officers-and directors who make or participate in a
'published report of the financial condition of the banks of
which they are such officers and directors may become liable
for damages sustained by .one depositing money in such bank
in reliance upon the false representation of the condition of
the bank contained in the report, even though such director
or officer did not know that his report so published was in fact
false or untrue.
. "The director of a bank who publishes or participates in the
publication of a report of its condition by such act asserts that
the statements contained in such report are substantially true,
and he cannot rely upon his ignorance of the true condition
of the bank as a defense to an action when he in such published reports represents the bank to be solvent, if in truth it
is not solvent and its assets are fictitious or worthless or its
liabilities so much greater than its assets as to, render the bank
insolvent.
. "A director or 'executive of a national bank is responsible
for the making and publication of a false report of its financial
condition, though he did not personally make and publish such
statement, if he in any manner participated.. in the making
or publication thereof. A director of a national bank is presumed to know its true condition and that the law requires a
true statement of its affairs to be made and published by the
bank from time to time, and if one has been a director or
executive officer of such a bank for a long period of time he is
presumed to have knowledge of the making and publishing
of the statements of its condition, and the burden is cast upon
him to overcome this presumption by competent evidence.

YATES v. JONES NATIONAL BANK.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"The jury are instructed that inasmuch as the law required
that all reports made by a national bank to the Comptroller of
the Currency shall be published at the expense of the bank,
in a newspaper at the place where the bank is established, you
have a right to consider-such published reports as have been
introduced in evidence in this action purporting to have been
signed and whose names appear in such published reports as
having been authorized by Such defendants so appearing to
have signed the same.'
Of the instructions refused, to which exception was taken,
we need only quote the following:
"The jury are instructed that if you find from the evidence
introduced in reference to any one of the directors named in
any one of the said cases that such director did not knowingly violate any of the requirements of the national banking act under-which he was acting as such director, but acted
in good faith, trusting and confiding in the officers, agents of
the bank, having no reason to suspect the integrity and honesty of any one of such officers and agents, then you are
instructed that your verdict, should be in favor of such defendant."
Concerning the cause of action and the proof required to
justify a -recovery, the Supreme Court of Nebraska said:
"The petitions show misfeasance and mismanagement on
the part of the defendants, as 6fficers of the bank, and that the
bank thereby sustained damages, but they show more than
that. They show that the defendants made And published
false and misleading- statements, concerning the financial con.dition of the bank, vhereby the :plaintiffs were induced to
become and remain its creditors to their damage. In short,
whatever other allegation may be contained in the petitions,
,they also contain sufficient to constitute a common law action
for deceit. That the party, upon whom the deceit or imposition 'was practiced by the officers of a national bank, may
maintain- an action against them in his own name and behalf
for damages resulting to him therefrom, and that his right .of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

action does not rest on the Federal statutes but the common
law, is no longer an open question.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"It was incumbent on the plaintiffs to establish by a. preponderance of the evidence, (1) That the defendants published
the statements purporting to show the financial condition of
the Capital National Bank or participated in the publication
thereof; (2) That such statements were false; (3) That the
plaintiffs severally relied upon such statements and believed
them to be true, and were thereby misled to their injury. As
to the first proposition, the evidence shows that none of the
statements were actually made by all of the defendants, but
that each defendant participated in making some of them.
It is urged on behalf of the defendant Thompson that he
participated in making but one of them. That is a mistake;
the evidence is conclusive that he signed and participated, in
making at least four of them, the first being that made and
published December 28, 1886, the last that made and published July 9, 1891. The mistake arises, perhaps, from the
construction which -the defendants seem to place on the petitions. The petitions set out two of the statements at length,
but it is also alleged that at divers other times and dates, between the 28th day of December, 1886, and the 21st day of
January, 1893, the defendants made and published other false
and misleading reports purporting to show the condition of the
bank whicli were relied upon by the plaintiff. The defendants
appear to take the position that the plaintiffs should be restricted to the two reports set out at length. We
do not think
so.. The allegations of the petitions are sufficiently broad to
admit proof of any and all statements made on and between the
dates just mentioned. If definiteness and certainty required
all such'statements' to be set out at length, the remedy was by
motion."
It is not to be doubted that, although the plaintiff alleged
the making of false verbal and written statements, there was
no attempt to establish any verbal misrepresentations. It is

YATES v. JONES NATIONAL BANK.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

also certain, even if it be conceded, arguendo, that there was
some evidence tending to show the making of alleged written
representations other than those contained in the official reports made by the association to the Comptroller of the Currency, and published in conformity to the national bank act,
that such latter statements were counted upon in the amended
petition and were, if not exclusively, certainly principally, the
grounds of the alleged false representations covered by the
proof. Under this state of the record, irrespective of the nature
and extent of the proof required to maintain an action of deceit
at common law, the question is: Did the Supreme Court of
Nebraska rightfully decide that the plaintiff was entitled to
recover against the defendant directors upon proof merely of
the following facts: "(1) That the defendants published the
statements purporting to show the financial condition of the
Capital National Bank or participated in the publication
thereof; .(2) That.such statements were false; (3) That the
plaintiffs severally relied upon such statements and believed
them to be true, and were thereby misled to their injury"?
And the exact import of the propositions which were thus
stated by the court below and were made the test of the right
of the plaintiff to recover is plainly shown by an opinion of the
Nebraska court cited in its opinion in this case, viz., Gerner
v. Mosher, 58 Nebraska, 135, which involved the liability of
the directors of the very same national bank with whose failure
this record is concerned. The court said:
"The defendants in the present suit, who, as directors, attested the reports made by the Capital National Bank to the
Comptroller of the Currency, by such act vouched for, or
certified to, the absolute truthfulness of the statements. therein
contained, and not that the report was correct, so far as the
directors knew or had been advised by the proper performance of their duties as directors. The means of information,
this record shows, were accessible to them. It was their duty
to know whether the reports were correct or not.
*

*

,

,

,

,

,

*

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

"In our view, whether the attesting directors possessed
knowledge-of the falsity-of their reports is wholly immaterial.
They, were in fact false and untrue, and those who deposited
money with the bank, or who purchased stock of the corporation, in reliance- upon the truthfulness of. the contents- of those
reports, were as much deceived, and damaged thereby as
,though the directors when 'they signed the reports knew them
-to be false. That they were innocent of the true situation or
condition of the affairs of the bank is wholly an unimportant
consideration, since proof of a scienter is not necessary to a
recovery.' This court has frequen'tly asserted that, to maintain an action for false representation, it is not essential that
it be shown that they were. intentionally or knowingly made
by the defendant. This is the rule in ordinary causes, and no
valid reason can be suggested or pointed out why the same
principle should not apply in actions for deceit against tjhe
directors.of a banking corporation. Certainly no case has come.
under our observation which has made an exception in their
favor."
The proper solution of the question above propounded necessitates a consideration of the legislation of Congress respecting national banks.
.
By section 24 of the national bank act of February 25, 1863,
cb..58, 12 Stat. 665, 671, each association was required to make
-and forward to the Comptroller of the Currency quarterly reports, "containing a true statement of the condition of the
association making such report," in respect to tenumerated
items, and it was provided that such report "shall be verified
by the oath or affirmation of the president and cashier, and all
willful false-swearing in respect to such report shall be perjury,
and subject to the punishment prescribed by law for such
offense." It was made the duty. of the Comptroller to publish
full abstracts of such reports, as to specified items, in newspapers printed . in the. cities of .Washington and New York,
"and a separate report of each association" was required to be
published, at -the expense of the association, in a newspaper

YATES v. JONES NATIONAL BANK.
206 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

published in the place where such association was established.
Associations located in a. number of the leading cities were
also required to publish, in a newspaper published where the
association was located, a statement, under the oath of the
president or cashier, of the condition of the association, showing the average amount of loans and discounts, specie, deposits,
and circulation. By section 45 the cashier of each association
was required after each dividend to make, under oath, "a full,
clear, and accurate statement of the condition of the association," enumerating specified particulars, which statement was
to be forthwith transmitted to the Comptroller of the Currency. The national bank act of June 3, 1864, ch. 106, 13
Stat. 109, substantially reenacted, in a much condensed form,
the requirements as to quarterly reports of the financial condition of each association. The abstract of such reports was
required, however, to be published by the Comptroller only
in the city of Washington, and every association was required
to make a monthly statement of its condition under the oath
of the president or cashier. For each day after five days' delay
in making a report each bank was made liable to a penalty of
one hundred dollars. The act of 1864' did not contain a requirement for the making and transmittal to the Comptroller
of a statement following the declaration of a dividend.
By an act approved March 3, 1869, ch. 130, 15 Stat. 326, in
lieu of the reports required by the national bank act of 1864,
it was made the duty of each association, on the requisition
of the Comptroller, to make not less than five reports in each
year. These reports were not only required to be verified "by
the oath or affirmation of the president or cashier of such association," but to be "attested by the signature of at least three
of the directors." Publication of such reports was required
to be made in a newspaper published in the place where the
association was established, and a penalty of one hundred
dollars for each day's delay after a specified time in making and
transmitting the report was authorized to be retained by the,
Treasurer of the United States out of interest due the associa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

tion. Each association was also required to make a report,
attested by the oath of its president or cashier, within ten days
after the declaration of a dividend, stating the amount of each
dividend and the amount of net earnings in excess of such
dividends.
As embodied in the Revised Statutes the provision became
section 5211, and is copied in the margin.'
By section 39 of the act of 1863, as well as by section 9 of
the act of. 1864, a director of a national bank was required,
inter alia, as he is now required by section 5147, Rev. Stat.,
to "take an oath that he will, so far as the duty devolves on
him, diligently and honestly administer the affairs of such
association, and will not knowingly violate, or willingly permit to be violated, any of the provisions of this Title." In the
acts of 1863 and 1864 the concluding word used was not "Title,"
but "act."
Sections 50 and 52 of the act of 1863, 12 Stat. 679, 680,
were practically identical, and sections 53 and 55 of the act
of 1864, 13 Stat. 116, were also substantially alike, and by those
sections civil and criminal liabilities were authorized to be assessed against and imposed upon directors of banking associations in certain contingencies. Section 52 of the act of 1863
1 SEc. 5211. Every association shall. make to the Comptroller of the
Currency not less than five reports during each year, according to the form
which may be prescribed by him, verified by the oath or affirmation of the
president .r cashier of such association and attested by the signature of at
least three of the directors. Each such report shall exhibit, .in detail and
under appropriate heads, the resources and liabilities of the association at
the close of business on any past day by him specified; and shall be transmitted to the Comptroller within five days after the receipt of a request or
requisition therefor from him and in the same form- in which it is made to
the Comptroller, shall be published in a newspaper published in the place
where such association is established, or if there is no newspaper in the
place, then in the one published 'nearest thereto in the same county, at the
expense of the association; and such proof of publication shall. be furnished
as may be required by. the .Comptroller. The Comptroller shall also have
power to call for special reports from any particular association whenever
in his judgment the same are necessary in order to a full and complete
knowledge of its condition.

YATES v. JONES NATIONAL BANK.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and section 55 of the act of 1864-as supplemented by the act
of April 6, 1869, ch. 11, 16 Stat. 7, construed in the act of
July 8, 1880, ch. 126, 16 Stat. 195, making it an offense to aid
or abet an officer or agent of any association in doing the acts
prohibited in section 55 of the act of 1864, with intent to
defraud or deceive-became section 5209 of the Revised Statute. It is copied in the margin.'
Section 50 of the act of 1863 and section 53 of the act of
1864 became section 5239 of the Revised Statutes, reading as
follows:
"SEC. 5239. If the directors of any national banking asso-

ciation shall knowingly violate, or knowingly permit any of
the officers, agents, or servants of the association to violate
any of the provisions of this title, all the rights, privileges, and
franchises of the association shall be thereby forfeited. Such
violation shall, however, be determined and adjudged by a
proper circuit, district, or territorial court of the United States,
in a suit brought for that purpose by the Comptroller of the
Currency, in his own name, before the association .shall be
declared dissolved. And in cases of such violation, every
director who participated in or assented to the same shall be
held liable in his personal and individual capacity for all damages which the association, its shareholders, or any other person, shall have sustained in consequence of such violation."
1 SEc. 6209. Every president, 'director, cashier, teller, clerk or agent of
any association, who embezzles, abstracts, or willfully misapplies. any of
the moneys, funds, or credits of the association, or who, without authority
from the directors, issues or puts in circulation any of the notes of the
association; or who, without such authority, issues or puts forth any certificate of deposit, draws any order or bill of exchange, makes any acceptance,
assigns any note, bond, draft, bill of exchange, mortgage, judgment, or
decree; or who makes any. false enti-y in any book, report, or statement of
the association, with intent, in either case, to injure or defraud the association or any other company, body politic or corporate, or any individual
person, or to deceive any officer of the association, or any agent appointed
to examine the affairs of any such. association; and every person who with
like- intent aids or abets any officer, clerk, or agent in any violation of this
section, shall fie deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be imprisoned
.not less than-five years nor more'than ten..,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

As in the early acts relating to the national banks, so in the
sections of the Revised Statutes on thesame subject there
are many provisions specifically enjoining the doing or not
doing of certain acts by the association or its officers. Thus
by section 5137i Rev. Stat. (formerly section 28 of the act of
1864), a national bank is prohibited from acquiring real estate
for purposes other than those specified in the act, and is forbidden to holi real estate, under certain contingencies, more
than a specified length of time; by section 5200, Rev. Stat.
(formerly section 29 of the act of 1864), it is prohibited to
loan to any person or corporiction in excess of one-tenth of
the capital stock of a bank; by section 5201, Rev. Stat. (formerly section 35 of the act of 1864), banking associations are forbidden to loan or purchase their own stock; by section 5202,
Rev. Stat. (formerly section 36 of the act of 1864), associations are forbidden to become indebted or become in any way'
liable exceeding the amount of their capital stock except on
account of specified demands; by section 5203, Rev. Stat.
(formerly section 37 of the act of 1864), a restriction is imposed upon the use of circulating notes by section 5204, Rev.
Stat. (formerly section 38 of the act of 1864), the withdrawal
of the capital of an association while continuing its operations
is forbidden either in the form of dividends or otherwise; and
section 5206, Rev. Stat. (formerly section 39 of the act of
1864), embodies a restriction upon the use of fiotes of other
banks. In addition to these sections of course may be considered the various sections enjoining the iaking and publishing of periodical reports of the association, to which we
have heretofore referred.
It thus becomes obvious that the national bank act imposes
upon directors duties which would not rest upon them at
common law, and that among such duties is the furnishing
to the Comptroller of the Currency reports concerning the condition of the bank -and the publication thereof. Although the
statutory provisions subsequent to the act of 1863, relating
to the making and publishing of such reports, do not, as did

YATES v. JONES NATIONAL BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

the act of 1863, expressly require that the report when made
should contain a "true" statement of the condition of the
association, yet, by necessary implication, such is the character of the statement required to be made, and by the like
implication the making and publishing of a false report is
prohibited.
Considering the text of the national bank act, as now embodied in the Revised Statutes, including section 5239, we
think the latter section affords the exclusive rule by which to
measure the right to recover damages from directors based upon
a loss alleged to have resulted solely from. the violation by
such directors of a duty expressly imposed upon them by a
provision of the act. By the first sentence of the section mentioned a forfeiture of the charter is entailed "if the directors
of any national banking association shall knowingly violate,
or knowingly permit any of the officers, agents, or servants
of the association to violate any of the provisions of this title.
"

And the last sentence ordains the rule by which

civil liability is to be .determined, by providing, that "every
director who participated in or assented to the same shall be
held liable'in his personal and.individual capacity for all damages which the association, its shareholders, or any other person, shall have sustained in consequence of such violation."
As the section thus comprehends all the express commands
to do or not to do, as to directors, contained in the national
bank act, and besides specifies the nature of the conduct of
directors from which their civil liability for violation of such
commands may arise, it results that liability cannot be entailed upon them by exacting a different and higher standard
of conduct as regards such commands than that established.
by the statute without depriving directors. of an immunity
conferred upon them. That the words "shall knowingly violate, or knowingly permit," etc., found in the first sentence of
section 5239, Rev. Stat., were intended to express the rule of
conduct which the statute established as a prerequisite to the
liability of directors for a violation of the express provisions
VOL.CCVI-12

OCTOBER, TERM 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

of the Title relating to national banks, is additionally shown
by the oath which a director is required to take, wherein, as
already stated, he swears "that he will, so far as the duty devolves on him, diligently and honestly administer the affairs
of such association, ana will not knowingly- violate, or willingly-permit to be violated, any of the provisions of this Title."
Mark the-contrast between the. general common law duty to
"diligently. and honestly administer the affairs of the association" and the distinct emphasis embodied in the promise not
to "knowingly violate, or willingly permit to be violated, any
of. the pro isions of this Title." In othei(words, as the statute
does not relieve the directors from the common law duty to
be honest. and diligent, the oath exacted responds to such requirements. But as, on the other hand, - the statute imposes
certain express duties and makes a knowing violation of such
commands the test of civil liability, -the oath in this regard
also conforms to the requirements of the statute by the promise
not to "knowingly violate, or willingly permit to be violated,
any of the provisions of this Title."
And general consideration as to the spirit and intent of the
national bank -act (Easton v. Iowa, 188 U. S. 220; Davis v.
Elmira Savings Bank, 161 U. S. 275) also render necessary the
,conclusion that the .measure of responsibility, concerning the
violation by directors of express commands of the national
bank act, is in the nature of things exclusively governed by
the specific provisions 'on the subject contained in that act.
Thus, a contrary conclusion would lead to a varying measure
of responsibility, in the several States in which the question
of liability might arise, depending upon the conceptions of
the state courts of last resort as to the meaning of the act of
Congress imposing the duty. Hence, it would follow that the
same provision of the statute might mean one thing in one
State and a different thing in another. The confusion which
would result is aptly illustrated by a review made by. the
Supreme Court of Ohio in the recent case of Mason v. Moore,
73 Ohio St. 275, of the conflicting state adjudications as to the

YATES v. JONES NATIONAL BANK.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

proper rule to be applied to fix the liability of bank directors
to third persons in an action of deceit at common law. The
frustration of the public policy embodied in the national bank
system, by the crippling of the usefulness of such institutions,
which would result from holding that directors in performing
the duties imposed upon them by the national bank act might
be held liable civilly, not by the standard of conduct which the
act provides for a violation of its express commands, but by
another and different one is apparent. Under such a conception
it might well be that prudent and responsible persons would
decline to assume the discharge of the duties imposed by the
statute because of the hazard of an uncertain pecuniary liability which the statute imposing the duty did not contemplate.
The civil liability of national bank directors, then, in respect to the making and publishing of the official reports of
the condition of the bank, a duty solely enjoined by the statute, being governed by the national bank act, it is self-evident
that the rule expressed by the statute is exclusive, because of
the elementary principle that where a statute creates a duty
and prescribes a penalty for non-performance the rule prescribed in the statute is the exclusive test of liability. Farmers'
& M. Nat. Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S.29, 35, ,and cases cited.
The error in the decision below becomes at once apparent when
its correctness is tested by the rule that the statute is applicable
and prescribes the exclusive test of liability. The doctrine, as
we have seen, upon which the court below rested its judgment
was that directors of a national bank who merely negligently
participated in or assented to the making and publishing of
an untrue official report of the condition of the bank were
civilly liable to anyone deceived to his injury by such report.
Indeed, in one aspect, the ruling below went further than this,
since it was, in substance, decided that despite the exercise of
diligence by the director, if he attested an untrue report he
was civilly liable because he did so at his risk, since it was his
duty to know or to refrain from acting. That this imposed a

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

higher standard of conduct than was required by the statute
is obvious, but is clearly also established by previous decisions
of this court, pointing out that where by law a responsibility
is made to arise from the violation of a statute knowingly,
proof of something more than negligence is required, that is,
that the violation must in effect be intentional. McDonald v.
Willims, 174 U. S. 397; Potter v. United States, 155 U. S. 438,
446, and cases cited. See, also, Utley v. Hill, 155 Missouri,
232, 264 et seq. and cases cited.
Of course in what'has been said we have confined ourselves
to the precise question-arising. for decision, and therefore must
not be understood as expressing an opinion as to whether and
to what extent directors of national banks may be civilly
liable by the principles of the common law for purely voluntary
statements made to individuals or the public, embodying false
representations as to the financial condition of the bank, by
which one who has rightfully relied upon such representatikzn
has been damaged. And because we have applied in this case
to the duty expressly imposed by the statute the standard of
conduct established therein we must not be considered as
expressing an opinion upon the correctness of the views enunciated by the court below concerning the standard which
should be appliec solely under the principles of the common
law, to fix the civil liabilities of directors in an action of deceit.
See Briggs v. Spaulding, 141 U. S. 132.
There is a suggestion that the subject matter of this controversy is so inherently Federal that, although the judgments
of the Circuit Court and of the Circuit Court of Appeals remanding the cause to the state court may not be reexamined
(25 Stat. 435), nevertheless it should now be decided that the
state court was wholly devoid of jurisdiction. This claim is
predicated upon the provision of section 5239, Rev. 7Stat.,
conferring exclusive jurisdiction on courts of the United States
to declare a forfeiture of the charter of a national bank as the
result of wrongs comiiitted by the directors, and the contention that a declaration of such forfeiture is a prerequisite to

YATES v. UTICA BANK.
206 U. S.

Syllabus.

an action to enforce the civil liability of directors,, and that
such action could only be brought in the courts of the United
States after a forfeiture has been adjudged. We content ourselves with saying that we think these contentions are without
merit.
It follows from what has been said that, as to Mosher and
Outcalt, two of the persons named as plaintiffs in error in the
writ and citation, the writ of error is dismissed for want of
prosecution; as to the other plaintiffs in -error, the judgment
below is reversed and the case is remanded for further proceedings not. inconsistent with this opinion.

YATES v. UTICA BANK.
SAME v. BAILEY.
SAME v. 'BANK OF STAPLEHURST.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.

Nos. 231, 232, 233.

Argued March 8, 11, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

Yates v. Jones National Bank, ante, p. 158, followed; and held further.
That a judgment was rendered upon demurrer does not affect its cogency
if it is otherwise. efficacious to bring into play the presumption of the
thing adjudged.
A judgment of dismissal based on the ground that plaintiff in an action
against the directors of. a national bank had not set up any individual
wrong suffered by him but solely an injury sustained in common with
all other creditors of the bank, is not res adjudicata of a right of action

