230

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206SU. S.

the letter of the text." Lieber, 56. The application of this rule
is clear. Consideration of the provisions relative to the rank
and pay of officers of the Army and Navy make it evident that
Congress used the words "assistant surgeon" as descriptive of
the whole class of assistant surgeons, passed as well as those not
passed.
Jugdment affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE MOODY

took no part in the decision of this case.

GEORGIA v. TENNESSEE COPPER COMPANY.
BILL IN EQUITY.
No. 5, Original. Argued February 25, 26, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.
When the States by their union made the forcible abatement of outside
nuisances impossible to each, they did not thereby agree to submit to
whatever might be done. They retained the right to make reasonable
demands on the grounds of their still remaining quasi-sovereign interests,
and the alternative to force a suit in this court.
This court has jurisdiction to, and at the suit of a State will, enjoin a corporation, citizen of another State, from discharging over its territory noxious
fumes from works in another State where it appears that those fumes
cause and threaten damage on a considerable scale to the forests and vege-

table life, if not to health, within the plaintiff's State.
A suit brought by a State to enjoin a corporation having its works in another
State from discharging noxious gases over its territory is not the same as
one between private parties, and although-the elements whichwould form
the basis (f relief between private parties are wanting, the State can maintain the suit for injury in a capacity as quasi-sovereign, in which capacity
it has an interest independent of and behind its citizens in all the earth
and air within its domain; and whether insisting upon bringing such a

suit results in more harm than good to its citizens, many of whom may profit
through the maintenance of the works causing the nuisance, is for the State
itself to determine..
THE

facts are. stated' in the opinion..

GEORGIA v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
206 U. S.

231

Argument for the State of Georgia.

Mr. John C. Hart, Attorney General of the State-of Georgia,
and Mr. Ligon Johnson for the State of Georgia:
A public nuisance, merely as such, is not abatable or actionable at the direct instarice of an indivilual. Where the public
nuisance is at the same time working some special injury to
the citizens, by reason of this special injury the individual
may seek to abate same, but the right of action is with relation
to the particular and private injury and not the public nuisance. The mere fact that the subject matter of the controversy
is a public nuisance affords'no right of action in the premises
to any private person. Not only is this a general rule of law
but it is also incorporated in the statute law of the State of
Georgia. Citizens of Georgia, by reason of the statutes denying them right of action in-the premises, would have beenpowerless, the right of redress in such matters being reserved
solely to the State.
Sections 3858 and 4761 of the Code of Georgia of 1895 are
practically nothing more than the codification of the law as
it existed. The general rule is stated in In re Debs, 158 U. S.
587. And see Attorney General v. Tudor Ice Co., 104 Massachusetts, 239; Attorney General v. Jamaica Pond Corporation,
133 Massachusetts, 361; State v. Goodnight, 70 Texas, 682.
That the State is a proper party and that the controversy
is justiciable in this court was decided in Missouri v. Illinois,
180 U. S. 241.
For other authorities in point see Eden on Injunction, 267;
Story, Eq. Juris., ยง 921; Daniels, Chan. P1. and Pr., 4th ed.,
1636; Penn v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 13 How. 518; Irwin v.
Dixon, 9 How. 27; PhaZen v. Virginia, 8 How. 168; Smith v.
Richter, 159 U. S. 398; Attorney General v. Forbes, 2 Myl. &
Cr. 123.
Georgia appeals to the court to protect her and her sovereignty and her enforcement of her laws within and with relation to the section and community injured. The maintenance
of a public nuisance is a crime by common law and by the
statute law of both Tennessee and Georgia. The offender is

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the State of Georgia.

206 U. S.

in the State of Tennessee. The criminal act, so far as Georgia
is concerned, is within the State of Georgia. The offender is
without the jurisdiction and beyond the reach of the laws of
Georgia, while the acts have been, and are being, committed
and threatened in Georgia. In consequence, Georgia, without
the aid of this court, is not only unable to punish constantly
recurring criminal and injurious acts within her territory and
upon her soil and citizens, but is also unable to enforce her
'laws, civil or criminal, and to maintain her sovereignty within
her dominion.
Every State possesses sole and exclusive jurisdiction over
her own territory, not only with reference to her soil, but of
acts committed thereon, as.well as of the citizens and inhabitants thereof. Hoyt v. Sprague, 103 U. S. 630; Pennoyer v.
Neff, 95 U. S.44; Simpson v. State, 92 Georgia, 42; 1 Bishop,
Crim. Proceed. 53; Bishop, Crim. Law, ยง 110; Commonw'ealth
v.Macloon et al., 101 Massachusetts, 1; Rorer on International
Law, 2d ed., 323; Minor, Conflict of Laws, 499.
As to.the preservation of the sovereignty of a State see
United States v. Texas, 143 U. S. 621; Fowler v. Lindsay, 3
Dall. 411.
The offender in this case is a corporation. Its corpus is in
-Tennessee, but. this, without the consent of Congress, could
not be surrendered to Georgia, even if Tennessee desired. Its
chief officers are non-residents of Tennessee. The offense
being merely a misdemeanor is not such that Tennessee would
recognize by extradition.
The State in its suit, as will be seen, is not seeking a mere
',injunction in equity -against the commission of a crime. It
*appealsto this court to protect it in its sovereign attributes.
Unless this- cause may be maintained in this court the
means of the Federal Government cannot be said to be adequate to its ends, and a State can maintain its sovereignty
only through the mere tolerance of her sister Ststes.
The police power, the right and power of the State to protect the public safety, health and welfare, as well as the welfare,

GEORGIA v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
206 U. S.

Argument for the State of Georgia.

health, safety and comfort of each citizen, resides in the States
and was never surrendered to the general government, and
such right now rests in the State of Georgia, and was and is
called into action by the resolution of its legislature as in the
bill set forth.
The highest and most binding duties of the sovereign are
often enforcible only through the police power. FertilizerCo.
v. Hyde Park, 97 U.S. 659; Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S.
33; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 392; Lawton v. Steele, 152
U. S.133; New York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 103.
The Constitution of the United States guarantees protection to the State of Georgia against any invasion whatever,
whether such invasion. be by force of arms or other means, by
another State or its citizens, or by a foreign government. It
is sufficient that the means be hostile or harmful and be such
that Georgia cannot prevent or protect herself against without
the use of force upon foreign territory.
In the case at bar Georgia has exhausted all amicable or
other powers left in her by the Constitution. She has applied
to Tennessee to prevent and abate the further commission of
the acts complained of, acts which, in their effect, are not only
criminal in the State of Georgia, but which result in laying the
territory of the State in waste more surely and completely than
could be accomplished by any invading army bent upon its destruction. Tennessee has refused to restrain her citizens in the
commission of such acts, declines to take any steps in the
premises, and shields the defendants in the continuation of a
most effective and harmful invasion.
Georgia has used every friendly office, has sought through
every means open to her to protect her territory and her citizens. She is denied by the Constitution. the right of invasion
or other aggressive action, and under such denial is powerless
in the premises without the aid of this honorable court and
the enforcement of the constitutional guarantee of protection
through this court, substituted in the place of the right of a
State to take direct or hostile action in an endeavor to main-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant, the Tennessee Copper Co.

206 U. S.

tain her sovereignty and her rights and to preserve the life,
health and comfort of her citizens. Constitution of the U. S.,.
Art. IV, Sec. 4; Federalist, LXXX; Missouri v. Illinois, 180
U. S. 208; Debs, Petitioner, 158 U. S. 564; Rhode Island v.,
Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657; Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1;
Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125.
Mr. Howardi Cornick, with whom Mr. John H. Frantz, Mr.
James B. Wright and Mr. Martin H. Vogel were on the brief,
for the defendant the Tennessee Copper. Company:
The bill and the proof wholly fail to establish such
a con'dition as would give this court jurisdiction of the subject
matter of this litigation.
The State of Georgia has not made out in her bill nor in
her proof, such a state of facts showing such direct interest
in this controversy as entitles her under the Constitution of
the United States to maintain this action to redress supposed
wrongs done to her domain.
.The State of Georgia, in her bill and in her proof, shows
no such state of facts as to entitle her to maintain this suit
in her sovereign capacity as parens patria,, trustee, guardian
or representative of her citizens.
' The threatened reduction of taxable values does not create
a direct interest in the controversy, but at most a remote interest. The proof does not support the allegations of the bill.
The power of taxation is an incident of sovereignty and not
a property right. Cooley on Taxation, 3d ed., 7; MeCulloch
v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 428; Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514;
Case of Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 278.
It appears from the proof that there has been absolutely
no injury whatever to the streams of the territory under discussion; that with 'the exception of one small one all the
streams of this territory drain into and through the State of
.Tennessee, and that none of these streams are navigable.
Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125, distinguished. Of these
species of property according to the law of nature and of nations

GEORGIA v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
206 U. S. Argument for Defendant, the Tennessee Copper Co.

there is and can be no private ownership, but ownership is
in the State as representative of the public. 3 Kent's Com.
445.
The bill alleges injury to the health of the citizens, though
the proof of the plaintiff utterly fails to support this allegation. Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208, distinguished.
Neither the bill nor the proof shows such injury to the
property of citizens as to entitle the State to maintain this
suit on behalf of citizens.
All of the proof of plaintiff, where injury is shown to have
occurred, demonstrates clearly that the citizens could be fully
compensated in lamages for injury, if any, which they may
have sustained; and that if their injuries could not be estimated and their compensation fixed in damages, no reason is
shown why they would, not be entitled to the same relief which
is being sought in their behalf by the State.
In order to prosecute an original suit in the Supreme Court,
a State must show just such interest in the controversy in
question as an individual must show in order to maintain a
suit in a proper jurisdiction, and it is the dignity of the
State rather than the character of the controversy which entitles it to come into this court by original proceeding. New
Hampshire v. Louisiana, 108 U. S. 76 et seq.; Wisconsin v.
Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S.289; Louisiana.v. Texas, 176 U. S.
1; Californiav. Southern Pac. Co., 157 U. S.261.
The proof as to the injury alleged by the bill is not only
doubtful, but preponderates in favor of defendants.
An injunction to restrain a nuisance will issue only in a
case where the fact of the nuisance is made out upon determinate and satisfactory evidence. If the evidence be conflicting and the injury be doubtful, that conflict and doubt
will be ground for withholding the iijunction. 1 Wood on
Nuisance, 3d ed., 732; 1 High on Injunctions, 4th.ed., ยง870.
Irrespective of the millions of dollars invested in the operations of these defendants and of their vested rights in their
properties, the State of Georgia is estopped from seeking the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

injunctive relief prayed in the bill on account of the injurious
effect which such an injunction would have upon the com-.
munities established by these operations. Not only have the
acquiescence and laches of the State of Georgia permitted the defendants in this case to make their investments, depending upon
the inference that no complaint having heretofore been made
by the State of Georgia, no complaint would be made; but the
State of Georgia, by cleeping upon, her rights, if any rights she
may have had, has allowed the community to become built up;
has allowed prosperous and thriving towns and cities to be
created; has allowed thousands of people to acquire their
homes and make their investments and establish their family
and social ties with the feeling of security against complaint
by the State of Georgia as to these operations.
Mr. James G. Parks for the Ducktown Sulphur, Copper and
Iron Company.
MR. JU TnIcE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity filed in this court by the State of
Georgia, in pursuance of a resolution of the legislature and by
direction of the Governor of the State, to enjoin the defendant
Copper Companies from discharging noxious gas from their
works in Tennessee over the plaintiff's territory. It alleges
that in consequence of such a discharge a wholesale destruction
of forests, orchards and, crops is going on, and other injuries
are done and threatened in five counties of the State. It alleges also a vain application to the State of Tennessee for relief.
A preliminary injunction was denied, but, as there was ground
to fear that great and irreparable damage might be done, an
early day was fixed for the final hearing and the parties were
given leave- if so minded, to try the case on affidavits. This
has been done without objection, and, although the method
would be unsatisfactory if our decision turned on any nice
question of fact, in the view that we take we think it unlikely
that either party has suffered harm.

GEORGIA v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The case has been argued largely as if it were one between
two private parties; but it is not. The very elements that
would be relied upon in a suit between fellow-citizens as a
ground for equitable relief are wanting here. The State owns
very little of the territory alleged to be affected, and the damage to it capable of estimate in money, possibly, at least, is
small. This is a suit by a State for an injury to it in its capacity
of quasi-sovereign. In that capacity the State has an interest
independent of and behind the titles of its citizens, in all the
earth and air within its domain. It has the last word as to
whether its mountains shall be stripped of their forests and
its inhabitants shall breathe pure air. It might have to pay
individuals before it could utter that word, but with it remains the final power. The alleged damage to the State as a
private owner is merely a makeweight, and we may lay on one
side the dispute as to whether the destruction of forests has
led to the gullying of its roads.
The caution with which demands of this sort, on the part
of a State, for relief from injuries analogous to torts, must be
examined, is dwelt upon in Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S.
496, 520, 521. But it is plain that some such demands must
be recognized, if the grounds alleged are proved. When the
States by their union made the forcible'abatement of outside
nuisances impossible to each, they did not thereby agree to
submit to whatever might be done. They did not renounce
the possibility of. making reasonable demands on the ground
of their still remaining quasi-soveregn interests; and the
alternative to force is a suit in this court. Missouri v. Illinois,
180 U. S. 208, 241.
Some peculiarities necessarily mark-a suit of this kind.. Ifthe State has a case at all, 'it is somewhat more certainly entitled'to specific relief. than a private party might be, It is not
lightly to be required to give up quasi-sovereign rights for pay;
and, apart from the difficulty of valuing such rights in money,
if that be its choice it may insist that an infraction of them shall
be stopped. The States by entering the Union did not sink

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

to the position of private owners subject to one system of
private law. This court has not quite the same freedom to
balance the harm that will be done by an injunction against
that of which the plaintiff complains, that it would have in
deciding between two subjects of a single political power.
Without excluding the considerations that equity always takes
into account, we cannot give the weight that was given them
in argument to a comparison between the damage threatened
to the plaintiff and the calamity of a possible stop to the defendants' business, the question of health, the character of
the forests as a first or second- growth, the commercial possibility or.impossibility of reducing the fumes to sulphuric acid,
the special adaptation of the business to the place.
It is a fair and reasonable demand on the part of a sovereign
that the air over its territory should not be polluted on a great
scale by sulphurous acid gas, that the forests on its mountains,
be they. better or worse, and whatever domestic destruction
they have suffered, should, not be further destroyed or threatened by the act of persons beyond its control, that the crops
and orchards on its hills should not be endangered from the
same source. If any such demand is to be enforced this must
be, notwithstanding the hesitation that we might feel if the
suit were between private parties, and: the doubt whether for
the injuries which they might be suffering to their property
they should not be-left to an action at law.
The proof requir,s buft a few words. It is not denied that
the defendants generate, jn. their works near the Georgia line
large quantities ,of sulphur dioxid which becomes sulphurous
acid by its mixture with the air. It hardly is' denied and cannot be denied with success that this gas often is carried by the
wind great distances and over great tracts of. Georgia land.
On the evidence. the poilutioni of the air and the magnitude of
,that pollution are not open'to dispute. Without any attempt
to go.into details immaterial to the suit, it is proper to add that
we are satisfied by a preponderance of evidence that the
sulphurous fumes cause. and threaten damage on so consider-

GEORGIA v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
206 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., concurring.

able a scale to the forests and vegetable life, if not to health,
within the plaintiff State as to make out a case within the requirements of Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496. Whether
Georgia by insisting upon this claim is doing more harm than
good to her own citizens is for her to determine. The possible
disaster to those outside the State must be accepted as a con-,
sequence of her standing upon her extreme rights.
It is argued that the State'has been guilty of laches. We
deem it unnecessary to consider how far such a defense would
be available in a suit of this sort, since, in our opinion, due
diligence has been shown. The conditions have been different
until recent 'years. After the evil had grown greater in 1904
the State brought a bill in this court. The defendants, however, already were abandoning the old method of roasting ore
in open heaps and it was hoped that the change would stop
the trouble. They were ready to agree not to return to that
method, and upon such an agreement being made the bill was
dismissed without prejudice. But the plaintiff now finds, or
thinks that it finds, that the tall chimneys in present use cause
the poisonous gases to be carried to greater distances than
ever before and that the evil has not been helped.
.If the State of Georgia adheres to its determination, there
is no alternative to issuing an injunction, after allowing a
reasonable time to the defendants to complete the structures
that they now are building, and the efforts that they are making, to stop the fumes. The plaintiff may submit a form of
decree on the coming in of this court in October next.
Injunction to issue.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,.

concurring.

'The State of Georgia is, in my opinion, entitled tIo
the general relief sought by its bill, and, therefore, I concur- in the.
result. With some things, however, contained in the opinion,
or to be implied from its language, I do not concur. When
the Constitution gave this court original jurisdiction incases

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

206 U. S.

"in which a State shall be a party," it was not intended, I
think, to authorize the.court to apply in its behalf, any principle or rule of equity that would not be applied, under the
same facts, in suits wholly between private parties. If this
was a suit between private parties, and if uilder the evidence,
a court of equity would not give the plaintiff an injunction,
then it' ought not to grant relief, under like circumstances, to
the plaintiff, because it happens to be a State possessing some
powers of sovereignty. Georgia is entitled to the relief sought,
not because it is a State, but because it is a party which has
established its right to such relief by proof. The opinion, if I
do not mistake its scope, proceeds largely upon the ground
that this court, sitting in this case as a court of equity, owes
some special duty to Georgia as a State, although it is a party,
while under the same facts, it would not owe any such duty
to the plaintiff, if an individual.

UNITED STATES v. BROWN.
BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 283, 284. Submitted April 25. 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

The prohibition inthe 77th Article of War against officers of the regular
army serving on courts-martial to try soldiers and officers of other forces
is peremptory, and, notwithstanding the contrary construction of former

articles on the same subject, an officer of the regular army, although on
indefinite leave of absence, to enable him to accept a volunteer commission, is not competent to sit on a court-martial to try a volunteer officer;
and if without him there would have been an insufficient number there is no
court and.the sentence of dismissal is void, and in this case an officer so

