STONE v. SOUTHERN ILLINOIS BRIDGE CO.
206 U. S.

267

Syllabus.

ing, and it does not require that they shall be restricted to less
than that.
The impossibility or difficulty of applying this law to the
operations of dredging, which upon the evidence, I think,
amounts to no more than that it would result in an inconvenience, which the defendants may readily avoid by refusing
to contract with the Government, is a consideration fit to be
addressed to Congress rather than to this court.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE HARLAN
MR. JUSTICE DAY concur in this dissent.

and

STONE v. SOUTHERN ILLINOIS AND MISSOURI
BRIDGE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME *COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 253.

Argued March 24, 25, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907,

Whether the statutes. of a State authorize the incorporation of a bridge
company to construct a bridge over a navigable river separating it from
another State; whether such statutes confer the right of eminent domain
on a corporation of another State, and whether such a corporation can
exercise therein powers other than those conferred by the State of its
creation, are all questions of state'law, involving no Federal questions,
and the rulings of the. highest court of the State are final and conclusive
upon this court.
The act of January 26, 1901, 31 Stat. 741, .having authorized the construction by. an Illinois corporation of a .bridge and approaches across the
Mississippi River, it is within the power' of one of the States within which
the bridge was. constructed to authorize extensions thereof and connections therewith necessary 'and proper to make it available for the use
contemplated by the statute, and although such extensions and connections were not within the plans and specifications of the bridge itself and
its approaches as approved by the Secretary of War, the condemnation
of land necessary for the bridge company to construct them is not in contrav'ention of § 9 of the act of March 3, 1899, 30 Stat. 1151, making it
unlawful to deviate in the construction of any bridge over navigable
waters from the plans approved by the Secretary of War.
194 Missouri, 175, affirmed.

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1006..
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

206 U. S.

THE facts.are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Shepard Barclay, with whom Mr. Madison R. Smith and
Mr. Thomas T. Fauntleroy were on the brief, for plaintiffs in
error:
The laws of Congress governing, the location -and limits of
the bridge and approach in question are paramount.
The defendhnt in error has no .power to condemn that part
of the land lying west of the 720-foot approach, as fixed by
the Secretary of War, for the purpose' of constructing and
operating "terminal -yards" anti railroad terminals, or as part
of the bridge.
To be a lawful structure the bridge must be built in accord•ance with the plans as recommended by said board of engineers and the Secretary of War and all requirements of the act
observed.
The drawing which defendant in error offered to the Federal
engineers, and which the Secretary of War approved, defines
the western approach at 720 feet from the western pier as
shown on the map. When defendant in error submitted its
map and secured its approval as an accurate delineation of
the western approach to the bridge, it became bound by its
own act until, at least, the Federal supervising authority approved a change. Lake Shore &c. Co. v. Balt. & Ohio Co.,
149 Illinois, 272; 30 Stat. 1151, § 9.
The legislation of Congress on this subject necessarily prohibits the operation of any local statute not in harmony therewith.
The entire approach to every' such interstate bridge is considered by the legislation of Congress as subject to the supervisory control 6f the Federal authority. Where the bridge is
once locatedand defined, the same cannot be changed without
express authority. In re Bridge Co., 108 N. Y. .483.
The acts of Congress, authorizing the construction of this
bridge, operate as limitations. on the area of the structure
(and its approaches mentioned therein as .a part thereof).

STONE v. SOUTHERN ILLINOIS BRIDGE CO.
206 U. S.

269

Opinion of the Court.

The Federal act authorizing this bridge does not grant the
right of condemnation of land for the purposes of the bridge.
It mentions the defendant in error, the bridge company, as
"a corporation created and organized under and by virtue
of the laws of the State of Illinois" (sec. 1).
Those laws do not confer on a bridge company the right of
eminent domain, even in Illinois. Rev. Stats., Illinois, 1899,
ch. 32, § 1, p. 433; Illinois State Trust Co. v. Railroad Co., 208
Illinois, 420.
Mr. Martin L. Clardy, with whom Mr. Alexander G. Cochran
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

On March 3, 1899, Congress passed an act providing, among
other things:
"That it shall not be lawful to construct or commence the
construction of any' bridge, etc.,.
over
any
. . . navigable river . . . of the United States until
the consent of Congress to the building of such structures
shall have been obtained, and until the plans for the same
shall have been submitted to and approved by the Chief of
Engineers and by the Secretary of War."
The act further provided:
"That when plans for any bridge or other structure have
been approved by the Chief of Engineers and by the Secretary
of War, it shall' not be lawful to deviate from such plans, either
before or after completion of the structure, unless the modification of said plans has previously been submitted to and. received the approval of the Chief of Engineers and of the Secretary of War." 30 Stat. 1151, sec. 9.
On January 26, 1901, Congress passed an act (31 Stat. 741)
authorizing the Southern Illinois and Missouri Bridge Company (defendant in error), a corporation of the State of Illinois,
to erect, gonstruct, maintain and operate a bridge and ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

proaches thereto over the Mississippi River from a point on
the Mississippi River in Alexander County, in the State of
Illinois, opposite the terminus of the St. Louis Southwestern
Railway, at or near Grays Point, in Scott County, in the State
of Missouri, or from some other convenient point on said river
in said Alexander County, Illinois, to some opposite point on
said river in the State of Missouri, within the distance of three
miles above or below the terminus of said railway.
The bridge was to be constructed for the passage of railway
trains and, at the option of the corporation, might be so constructed as to provide for the use thereof by wagons, vehicles,
and the transit of foot passengers and animals at such reasonable tolls as might be approved by the Secretary of War.
It was also provided that the bridge constructed under the
act and subject to its limitations should be a lawful structure
and recognized and known as a post'route of the United. States.
Section 5 provides:
"That the approaches to the bridge built under this act shall
be so designed 'and constructed as not to interfere with the free
discharge of the river in seasons of flood; and any encroachment on the high-water cross sections by piers, solid embankments, or otherwise" Which might result in unduly accelerating
the high-water current at the site of the bridge, shall not be
allowed."
Section 7 provides, for the submission to the Secretary of
War of the drawings of the bridge, piers, approaches and accessory works and a map of the location, giving, for the space
of at least two miles above and one mile below the proposed
site, the topography of the banks of the river and the shore
lines at 'high and low water. The maps and drawings are to
be -referred to the board of officers of the Corps of Engineers,
United States Army, for examination and report.
Provision is made for hearing objections to the construction
of the bridge, and it is provided that the proposed bridge shall,
be a lawful structure only when, built in accordance with 5he
plans recommended by the Board of Engineers and approved

STONE v. SOUTHERN ILLINOIS BRIDGE CO.
206 U. S.

271

Opinion of the Court.

by the Chief of Enginer,'and by the Secretary of War, and
while so managed and kept in repair as to offer -at all times
reasonable and proper means for the passage of rafts, steamboats and other water craft under the said bridge and while
said requirements are observed.
Section 10 provides, for alterations and changes as may be
required by the Secretary of War, in accordance with existing
law, in the bridge constructed under the provisions of the act,
so as to preserve free and convenient navigation. Such changes
were to be made, under the direction of the Secretary of War,
at the expense of the. persons, companies, or corporations
owning, controlling and operating the bridge.
Section 11 provides that the bridge shall be constructed under
the general supervision of the Secretary of War, and no changes
or alterations in the plan shall be made during the construction of said bridge or after its completion, unless recommended by the Chief of Engineers and approved by the Secretary of War.
The act makes provision for the preservation of the navigable
channel during the construction of the bridge.
Section 12 piovides that whenever Congress shall decide that
the public interests require it, the right to order the removal
of the bridge at the expense of the owners is expressly reserved,
without liability for damages on the part of the United States.
Section 13 provides that if -the bridge is not commenced
within one year and completed. within three years from the
date of the approval of the act, the same shall be null and
void, and the rights thereby conferred cease and determine.
The Southern Illinois" and Missouri Bridge Company, in
pursuance of this act, submitted its drawings and plans and
the same were duly approved as required by law.
The bridge company, on the. twenty-fourth- day of April,
1902, filed its petition in the Circuit Court of Scott County,
Missouri, for the appropriation of a' strip of land containing
20.3 acres, said to be approximately 4,000 feet long and 200
feet wide, alleging that it.is necessary to have a right of way

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

for the railway tracks, -bridge and terminal yards of the company, and for the purpose -of carrying out its charter privileges
it is necessary to hold and own the described tract.
On trial in the Circuit Court that court held that the bridge
company had no right to make the appropriation under the
laws of Missouri.
From this adjudication an appeal was taken to the Supreme
Court of Missouri and that court reversed the judment of the
Circuit Court, and remanded the case ,with, directions to the
lower court to appoint three disinterested commissioners to
assess the damages which the defendants Would sustain by
the appropriation of the strip of land. 174 Missouri, 1.
Such proceedings were had, and ten thousand dollars was
assessed as, damages in favor of the plaintiffs in error, defendants below, and a second appeal was prosecuted .to the Supreme Court of Missouri, where judgment below was affirmed.
194 Missouri, 175.
To that judgment this writ of error is prosecuted.
Many of the assignments of error involve only questions of
state law, the rulings concerning which, in the Supreme Court
of the State, are conclusive, and involve no substantial Federal
question.
Among these may be named:
The contention that the statutes of Missouri do not authorize the incorporation of a bridge company to build, a bridgeacross the -Mississippi River;
That the laws of.Missouri do not confer the right of eminent domain. on.a corporation of another State;
That a corporation of Illinois can only exercise in Missouri
such powers as are conferred upon it by the State of its creation.
'These questions involve the .powers of corporations under
the laws of Missouri, which are concluded by the adjudication
of the state Supreme Court;
There is no contention that the statutes conferring the right
of eminent domain passed by the legislature of the State of
Missouri, and which its courts have decided authorize this

STONE v. SOUTHERN ILLINOIS BRIDGE CO.
206 U. S.

273

Opinion of the Court.

appropriation by the defendant in error, do not make ample
provision for assessment of damages to the landowner by due
process of law. Whether a given corporation comes within the
law of the State, and is entitled to assert its power, presents
only a question of.state law.
Nor is error shown in the contention that the erection of the
bridge was not begun within the year, as provided by the act,
of Congress. The evidence shows that the bridge has been
constructed without complaint by the Federal authorities) and,
indeed, Congress has extended the time for the completion of
the bridge by an act passed January 18, 1904. 33 Stat., Part 1,
p. 6.- It cannot prejudice any Federal right secured to the plaintiffs in-error that the right of. eminent domain is authorized
by. the State, notwithstanding the bridge was not begun within
the time which Congress might have insisted upon as a condition of enjoyment of the privleges conferred.
If the record presents any Federal question at all, it rests
in the contention that the 'kppropriation in controversy. is in
,contravention of the act of Congress, because it is an unauthorized extension of the- approaches to the bridge upon the
Missouri side, not included in the drawings and plans as submitted to the Secretary of War and which met with his approval as already recited.
The copy of the approved drawings in the record shows
that the approach to the bridge upon the west side was shown
in a series of arches extending from the river bank to a distance of 720 feet. And it is the contention of the plaintiffs in
error that, in view of the act of Congress, the approach must
be limited to the extent and construction shown in the plans
and drawings thus approved by the Secretary of War. Indeed,
it is contended that this plan, after its approval, became a
limitation upon the power of the .State to extend the 'bridge
by authorizing further approaches and connections.
But we think this contention wholly untenable. The act of
Congress and the powers given the Secretary of War thereunder are the result of the exertion of the constitution. 1 Dower
VOL. CCVI-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

conferred upon CongTess to regulate commerce between the
States. Feddral control of bridges constructed over navigable
waters is maintained because of the right to prevent obstructions to navigation and preserve such public highways as
rivers for free and unobstructed use in the interest of commerce. Bridge Company v. United States, 105 U. S. 470-475,
and cases therein cited.
An examination of the act of Congress under which the
bridge company was authorized to construct this bridge manifests the purpose to prevent its becoming an obstruction or
interference with free navigation of the river, and when the
matter of approaches is specifically spoken of it is provided
thatthey shall be so designed and constructed as not to interfere with the free discharge of the river in seasons of flood.
It is evident that the purpose of requiring the submission,
of plans, and their approval by the Secretary of War, was to
preserve, as far as may be, the unobstructed passage of the
river in the uses of navigation. To the extent that it was
necessary to protect such interests, the law provides that the
structure shall be unalterable and that its approaches'shall
be approved by the Secretary and remain unchanged without
his sanction, but it certainly never was designed to destroy
the usefulness of the bridge by limiting the power of the State
to authorize the corporation constructing and owning it, by
proper connections and other facilities, to make the bridge
available for the purposes for which it was intended. The
bridge and approaches as approved by the Secretary of War
have not been altered. The connecting approaches and tracks
are additional means of making the bridge available for the
purposes intended.
* As was pertinently observed by the Chief Justice, in delivering the opinion of the court in Union Pacific Ry. Co. v. Chicago
&c. Ry. Co., 163 U. S. 588, "A railroad bridge can be of no use
to the public unless united with necessary appurtenances, such
as approaches, tracks, depots and other facilities for the public
accommodation."

STONE v. SOUTHERN ILLINOIS BRIDGE CO.
206 U.S.

275

Opinion of the Court.

If the State was deprived of its power to authorize extensions and connections which should make this bridge available
for the common use of railroads for which it was intended, it
would have been a vain thing to provide for a bridge abruptly
terminating at a height and point where, without further lpproaches and connecting facilities, its usefulness would have
been destroyed.
This record shows that the point 720 feet to the west, where
the approach required by the War Department ends, is at a
height of some 60 feet from the ground. The structure was
thence extended some distance to the crest of a bluff, thence
over the lands of the plaintiffs in error to a point where the
terminal yards of the bridge company are situated.
We cannot find it within the purpose of Congress, if it had
the power so to do, by the terms of this act to limit the State
in its right to authorize these necessary terminals and connecting facilities, because the plans and specifications, which fully
subserved the purpose of showing the extent to which naviga-,
tion would be affected had been specifically approved by the/
Secretary of War and are not to be altered without his conseit.
In our view no Federal right was taken from the plaintiffs
in error by the action complained of under the state laws as
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri, and
if it may be said that the contention fairly represents a Federal
question, we are unable to find merit iia it.
Judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri is
Affirmed.

