OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

206 U. S.

successful the result will be practically to destroy Kessler's
judgment right. Moreover, though the impairment or destruction of Kessler's right would certainly follow from the
course of conduct which Eldred has begun, it would be difficult
to prove in an action at law the extent of the damage inflicted.
An action at law would be entirely inadequate to protect fully
Kessler's unquestioned right, and under these circumstances,
though there may be no exact precedent, we think that the
.jurisdiction in equity exists.. Nor do we see any good
reason
suit
of
in
the
defense.
for
the
interposition
Kessler's
why
Eldred v. Breitwieser debars. him from his remedy in equity.
It f6ollows from the foregoing reasoning that the first and
second questions certified should be answered in the affirmative,
and the third and fourth in the negative, and
It is so ordered.

COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA v. STATE OF WEST
VIRGINIA.
IN EQUITY.
No. 7, Original. Argued March 11, 12, 1.907.-Decided May

27.

1907.

This court has original jurisdiction of a suit by the State of Virginia against
the State of West Virginia for an accounting as between the two States,
and, in 6rdei to a full and correct aaijustment of the accounts to adjudicate
and determine the amount, if any, due the former by the latter.
Consent to be sued, in this court by another State is given by a State, by,
and at the time of, its admission into the Union. It will be presumed that
the legislature of a State will provide for the satisfaction of any judgment
that may be rendered against it, and the jurisdiction and power of this
court is not affected by the question of how it will be enforced. If a State
should repudiate its obligation to satisfy judgment rendered against it,
this court will after the event consider the means by which it may be
enforced.
The court having jurisdiction of the controversy, the effect of the provisions
in the constitution of West Virginia, as well as the several statutes enacted

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

by that State and by Virginia on the liability of West Virginia, for a part
of the public debt of Virginia, and the relations of Virginia to the holders
of bonds will not be determined on demurrer, but postponed to the merits..

THIS is a bill filed, on leave, February 26, 1906, by the Commonwealth of Virginia against the State of West Virginia.
The bill averred that-"On the first day of January, 1861, complainant was indebted in about the sum of $33,000,000 upon obligations and
contracts made in connection with the construction of works
of internal improvement throughout her thk territory. By
far the greater part of this indebtedness was shown by her bonds
and other evidences of debt, given for the large sums of money
which she from time to time had borrowed and used for the
above purpose; but a portion' of her liabilities though arising
under contracts made before that date, had not then been
covered by bonds issued for their payment.
"In addition to the above liability to the general public,
there was a large indebtedness evidenced by her bonds and other
liabilities held by and due to the Commissioners of the Sinking
Fund and the Literary Fund of the State, as created under her
laws amounting, the former to $1,462,993.00, and the latter to
$1,543,669.05 as of the same date.
"The official reports and records showing the exact character
and amounts of the public debt thus contracted and how the
same was created, are referred to, and will be produced upon a
hearing of the case.
"(2) That. portion of the territory embraced in what con.stitutes the present territorial lilmits of Virginia was prior to
that date devoted mainly to agriculture, and to some extent
to grazing and manufacturing,, which afforded its chief sources
of revenue, while that. portion' included in what now constitutes the State Of West Virginia had vast potentialities of
wealth and revenue in the undeveloped.stores of minerals and
timber, which had been known for many years prior to .the
date named, and their prospective values, if made accessible
to the markets of the country, were understood to be well

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement-of the Case.

206 U. S.

nigh beyond computation. It was to hasten and facilitate the
development of these sources of wealth and revenue' by the
construction of graded roads, bridges, canals and. railways,
extending through the State from tidewater towards the Ohio
River, that the Commonwealth of Virginia, in the first quarter of the Nineteenth Century, entered upon a system of public
internal improvements, which it was contemplated should include the entire territory of the State, and embraced in its
'design the construction of public works adapted, not to the
needs of any one portion of the State alone, but of the entire
State, as a unit of interest. The larger part of these works
were constructed East of the Appalachian range, as leading
up to -the undeveloped territory West thereof, but a very
considerable portion of them were, 'at an expense of several
millions of dollars, constructed West of said range within the
territory now included in the State of West Virginia; and the
completion of some of the main lines of improvement beyond
the said range and through to the Ohio River, since the first
day of January, 1861, has increased to a very great and material extent the values of real estate, including coal and timber, in the. said territory now included in West Virginia, thus
carrying into effect the original scheme of improvement, which
could not have. been done had not the lines East of said range
been first Constructed; and your oratrix believes and avers
that the property values within the limits of West Virginia
have been enormously enhanced in a large measure by reason
of these improvements. The money appropriated to the payment of the annually accruing interest on the said debt, prior
to January 1, 1861, and to the formation of the Sinking Fund
for the ultimate redemption thereof, was ddrived from taxes
imposed upon the property subject to taxation throughout
the entire State. The first 'of this indebtedness to be contracted
was a small amount borrowed by the State in the year 1820
and the debt was thereafter from time to time continued and
increased by renewals and new loans until it reached the amount
above stated in. 1861.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"(3) The Commonwealth of Virginia was induced to enter
upon the construction of this general system of internal improvement, in a very large measure for the purpose of developing the -aforesaid resources of the. western portion of the
State, now constituting the State 'of West Virginia, thereby
ameliorating the condition of her citizens residing, therein;
and it was with this view that she took upon herself the burden of the public. debt for which her bonds were issued, without
which debt such improvements could not have been undertaken. In corroboration of this view it will appear from an
inspection of the legislative records of the State, where the
vote carrying the appropriations for such public improvements
was recorded, that in nearly every instance a majority of those
members of the House and Senate of the original State, who
then represented 'the counties now composing West Virginia,
voted for such appropriations. Indeed it appears from those
records that a great majority of the. acts of the legislature
of Virginia under which said indebtedness was created, would
have failed of their passage, had the representatives from the
counties embraced in what is now West Virginia opposed their
enactmeiit, and that a very large proportibn of said indebtedness was actually contracted over the votes of a majority of
the representatives from the counties aid. cities embraced in.
the limits of the present State of .Virginia. 'This *ill be found
to be true, not only .in the legislature for one single session,
but in the legislatures for many successive years, thus showing
it to have been a fixed policy of the people in that portion of
the State now constituting West Virginia to participate in,
support and carry out this general plan of inteml improvements in the State.
"(4.) The development of this system of public improvements thus entered upon .was, from its character and extent,
necessarily progressive, and the same extended with the
general growth and increasing needs of the State, and was
incomplete, as above stA ted, 'n 1861, though a very considerable
portion of such improvements had, prior to that time, been

OCTOBER TERMF 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

constructed as above stated, in the territory now constitutingWest Virginia, in order to meet the needs of the people of that
portion of the State for their local purposes. As early as the
year 1816 a Board of Public Works was created by law for
the State, the members of which were elected by the voters of
the State at large, and this Board had in charge the construction and supervision of all the works of- public improvement
in this State. The annual reports of this Board will be re'ferred to for information as to the character, extent, cost and
location of the public works and internal improvements constructed in the Stateprior.to January 1st, 1861. The amounts
expended . upon the construction of these works in what is
now West Virginia can only be accurately ascertained by a
examination of the numerous entries in the records of this
Board extending through a number of years and showing
such expenditures as made from time to time.
"(5.) On the 17th of April, 1861, the people of Virginia, in
general convention assembled, adopted an ordinance by which it
was intended to withdraw Virginia from-the union of the States.
From this action a considerable portion of the people of Virginia dissented, and organized a separate government which
was known and recognized by the government of the United
States as the 'Restored State of Virginia,' and will be hereafter referred to in this bill as the 'Restored State.'
"(6.) On the 20th day of.August, 1861, the 'Restored State
of Virginia,' in convention, assembled, in the city of Wheeling,
Virginia, adopted an ordinance to 'provide for the formation
of a new State out of the portion of the territory of this State;'
section 9 of which ordinance was as follows, to-wit:
"'9. The new State shall take upon itself a just proportion
of the public debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia, prior to
the first day of January, 1861, to be ascertained by charging
to it all the state expenditures within the limits thereof, and.
a just proportion of the ordinary expenses of the state government since any part of said debt was contracted,
and deducting therefrom the moneys paid into the Treasury of the

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Commonwealth from the counties included within tie said
new State during said period. All private rights and interests
in lands within the proposed State, derived from the laws of
Virginia prior to such sepafation shall remain valid and secure under the laws of the proposed State, and shall be determined by the laws now existing in the State of Virginia.'
"(7.) On the 31st day of December, 1862, an act was passed
by the 37th Congress of the-United States providing that the
new State thus formedin pursuance of the ordinances of the
Wheeling convention above referred to, should, upon certain
conditions, be admitted into the Union by the name of West
Virginia, with a- constitution which had theretofore been
adopted for the new: State by the people thereof, such conditions being that a change should be made in such proposed
constitution in regard to the liberation of slaves therein; and
it was provided by this act of Congress that whenever the
President of the United States should issue his proclamation
stating the fact that such change had been made and ratified,
thereupon the act. admitting the new State into the Union
should take effect sixty days after the, date of such proclamation. Such proclamation declaring these conditions to have
been complied with was duly made by President Lincoln on
April 20th, 1863, and West 'Virginia, in conformity therewith
and by the operation of said act of Congress, was admitted
into the Union as a State on the 20th day .of June, 1863; and
.thereupon the State of West Virginia became fully organized,.
and each of its departments of government commenced operation on the date last named.
"(8.) Pending the admission of the State of West Virginia
into the Union the Geiieral Assembly of the 'Restored State
of Virginia? passed February 3, 1863, the following act:
"'That all property, real, personal and mixed, owned by, or
appertaining to this State, and being within the boundaries
of the proposed State of West Virginia, when the same becomes
one of the United States, shall thereupon pass to, and become
the property of the State of West Virginia, and-without any

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

other assignment, conveyance or transfer or delivery than
is herein contained, and shall include among other things not
herein specified all lands, buildings, roads, and other internal
improvements or parts thereof, situated within said boundaries,
and vested in this State, or in the president and directors of
the Literary Fund, or the Board of Public Works thereof, or in
any person or persons for the use of this State, to the extent
of the interest and estate of this State therein; and shall also
include the interest of this Statp, or of the said president and
directors, or of the said Board of Public Works, in any parent
bank or branch doing business within said boundaries and all
stocks of *any other company or corporation, the principal
office or place of business whereof is located within said boundaries, standing in the name of this State, or of the said president
or directors, or of the said Board of PublicWorks, or of any
person or persons, for the use of this State.
"' That if the appropriations and transfers of property, stocks,
and credits provided for by this act, take effect, the State of
West Virginia shall duly account for the same in the settlement hereafter to be made with this State, provided that no
such property, stocks and credits shall have been obtained
since the reorganization of the state government.'"
Complainant. charged "that the property which was by the
operation of this act appropriated and transferred from the
State of Virginia to the State of West Virginia, and which
was subsequently received and enjoyed by the State of West
Virginia, consisted of a"number of items, and the value of it
amounted, in the aggregate, to several millions of dollars,
the exact amount your oratrix is unable at this time more
definitely to ascertNin and state. That of the bank stocks
alone, which were transferred ,under the operation of this act,
the State of West Virginia realized and received into her
treasury from the sale thereof about six hundred thousand
dollars; and that no part of the property so received by,
West Virginia had 'been obtained by Virginia since April,
1861.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
206 U. S.

'Statement of the Case.

"(9.) And by a further act of the General Assembly of the
'Restored State of Virginia' passed on the next day, February
4th, 1863, it was enacted:
"'1. That the sum of one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars be, and is hereby appropriated to the State of West
Virginia out of moneys not otherwise appropriated, when the
same shall have been formed, organized and admitted as one
of the States of the United States.
"' 2. That there shall be, and hereby is appropriated to the
said State of West Virginia when the same shall become one
of the United States, all balances, not otherwise appropriated,
that may remain in the treasury, and all moneys not otherwise appropriated, that may come into the treasury up to
the time when the said State of West Virginia shall become one
of the United States: provided, however, that when the said
State of West Virginia shall become One of the United States,
it shall be the duty of the auditor of this 'State, to make a
statement of all the moneys that up to that time, have been
paid into the treasury from counties located outside of the
boundaries of the said State of West Virginia- and also of all
moneys that up to the same time, have been expended in such
counties, and the unexpended surplus of all such moneys shall
remain in the treasury and continue to be the property of this
State.'
"And this last named sum of one hundred and fifty
thousand dollars together with other sums belonging to
the State of Virginia, were turned over to and received or
collected by the new. State of West Virginia after its formation
as aforesaid.
"(10.) The constitution of the State of West Virginia, which
became operative and was in force when she was admitted
into the Union, contained the following provisions:
"By Section 5 of Article VIII, of said constitution it was
provided:
"'5. No debt shall be contracted by this State except to
meet casual deficits in the revenue, to redeem a previous

,OCTOBER TERM, 1.906.
Statement .of the Case.

206 U. S.

liability to the State, to suppress insurrection, repel invasion
or defend the State in time of war.'
"
"And by Section 7 9 f Article VIII it was provided:
7. The legislature nay, at any time, direct a sale of the
stocks owned by the State, in banks and other corporations,
but the proceeds of such sale shall be applied tb the- liquidation of the public debt, and hereafter the State shall not
become a stodkholder in *anybank.'
"And by Section 8 of Article VIII it was provided:
"'8. An equitable proportion of the public debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia prior to'the first day of January, 1861,
shall be.assumed by this State, and the legislature shall ascertain the same as soon' as may be practicable and provide for
the liquidation thereof by a sinking fund sufficient topay the
accruing interest and redeem the principal within thirty-four
--years.'.
At the time the constitution containing these provisions
was adopted, West Virginia did not owe, and could not have
owed, anY 'public debt' or 'previous liability,' except for her.
just, contributive proportion of the public debt of the original
State of Virginia, and for ,themoney and property of the original
State which had been transferred to and received by her under
the acts of the General Assembly of the ' Restored State of
Virginia' "above set forth. By the provisions of section 8 of
Article VIII, above cited, she expressly assumed her equitable
proportion'of the debt of the original State as it existed prior
to the first day of January, , 1861. By section 6 of the same
Article VIII, above set forth,, her constitution forbade the
creation of any debt 'except to meet casual deficits in the
revenue, to redeem a previous liability of the State,' &c., and
there was not and could not have been any such 'previous
liability,' except her portion of the debt of the original State,
and her liability for the money and property of the original
State which had been transferred to and received by her under
the acts of the General Assembly of the 'Restored State.' And
section. 7 of the same article of her constitution, above cited,
'

J

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

authorized a sale of the stocks owned by the State, in banks
and other corporations, the proceeds to be applied to the liquidation of the public debt; and she had no such stocks, except
those acquired, as above stated, from the original State. This
section of her constitution also expressly required the proceeds
of such sale to be applied to her public debt, which public
debt could only have been her proportion of that of the original State of Virginia, and her liability for the money and property of the original State which had been transferred to her..
"(11.) After the year 1865 and prior to the year 1872 attempts
were made at different times by the public authorities of both
the Commonwealth of, Virginia and the State of West Virginia,
respectively, to ascertain their contributive proportions of
the common liability resting upon them for the public debt
of Virginia, contracted prior to January 1st, 1861; but all
such attempts proved ineffectual and vain, and no accounting
or settlement of any kind was ever had between the two
States in regard tothis debt.
"(12.) The efforts looking to a settlement by the concurrent
action of the two States having proved abortive, and your
oratrix being anixious tQ adjust the portion of the common
-debt which it was right that she should assume and pay, upon
terms just and equitable alike to the public creditors and to
West Virginia,. made several efforts to effect such a settlement.
"The first of these was made by the General Assembly which
was clihsen at the close- of the period, of ,'destruction and
reconstruction,' which, following closely upon the period of
disastrous war, had inflicted upon her people injuries and
losses, the harmful effects of which were then • by no means
realized.
"The purpose of-the representatives of the Commonwealth,
then just emerging from conditions which had impoverished
her people and paralyzed their. productive energies, to assume
and pay. to the utmost every dollar which her most exacting
creditor could demand of her, was expressed in the act of her
General Assembly, approved March 30, 1871.

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement .of the Case.

206 U. S.

"By the terms of settlement embodied in this act, your
oratrix. undertook to give her obligations bearing .6% interest
for two-thirds of the principal, and for two-thirds of the past
due interest, and also for two-thirds of the interest on that
accrued interest, which accrued interest. to the extent of nearly
$8,000,000, had been funded after the war in new bonds of
Virginia, thus capitalizing at 6% not only the interest, but interest upon that interist.
"It was soon apparent ' that .Virginia had by this measure
assumed a heavier -burden than she Was able to bear, and so
other plans for the settlement of the state debt were attempted
by the acts of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth
approved March 28, 1879, and February 14, 1882, until at
length fa final and satisfactory settlement of the portion of
-'the debt of the original State which Virginia should assume
and pay was definitely concluded by the act of February 20,
1892. Your oratrix will file copies of each of the acts of her
General Assembly herein mentioned as exhibits to this bill,
and to beread as part hereof.
"-(13.) As further indicating the great burden which your
oratrix, notwithstanding the disaster and loss above referred
to, has assumed and met on account of the common debt of
the undivided State, she shows your honors 'that, since January 1st; 1861, she has actually paid off, retired and dischargedL,
or assumed and given her new outstanding obligations for the
aggregate sum of over seventy-one million-dollars, as will
more particularly appear from a statement, thereof filed as
an exhibit herewith and hereinafter referred to -as 'Exhibit
Number 7'
"It is proper in this connection to call attention. to the
fact that, while your oratrix has made this large contribution
toward the, settlement of the common debt, West Virginia
has not paid one dollar. thereof; and although in the early
years of her history she repeatedly conceded that there was
some ,portion of that debt which should equitably be borne
by her, her properly constituted authorities have for a num-

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

her of years refused to recognize that any liability whatever
rested upon her, on that account, and have declined even to
enter into an accounting or to treat with your oratrix in
reference thereto.
"It would seem from the above statement that Virginia
has already done as much under 'all the circumstances as she
could be fairly expected to do towards paying off the common
public debt of the old State. Such was the view and purpose
of the General Assembly in the several acts above recited.
"A question may be raised as to whether such was the
effect' of the language used in the act of March 30, 1871, with
respect to the certificates issued thereunder; but the great
miss of the creditors entitled to whatever may be due upon
the unfunded obligations of the undivided State, have in effect
agreed, as will be hereinafter shown, to waive any such question, and to accept the adjudication of -this court in this cause
against West Virginia in full discharge of all their claims, thus
giving that effect to the act of March 30, 1871, which it was
the purpose of your oratrix that it should'have.
"(14.) By each of the acts for the settlement of her debt
above recited, it was provided that the bonds of undivided
Virginia so far as not funded in the new. obligations given
by your oratrix, should be surrendered to .and held by your
oratrix, who, either by the express terms of the settlement
provided for by said acts, or as a just and equitable consequence therefrom, received and holds said original bonds so
far as .unfunded, in trust for the creditor who deposited the
same with her, or his assigns; and certificates to this effect
were given.by your oratrix-to each creditor whose old-Virginia
bond was so surrendered to her.
"Having as an essential part of the contract' for the adjustment of the common debt of the original State entered
into this fiduciary relation in reference to these bonds, it
became her obligation of duty to the creditors who had confided their securities to her keeping, as well .as to her- own
people, whose credit and fair name required that these obliga-

*-02

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

tions 6f the old State should be fairly and honorably adjusted,
to do all in her power to bring about a determination of West
Virginia's just liability in respect thereto, and if possible the
recognition and settlement of the same by that State.
"Only after exhausting every means of amicable negotiation, and having her overtures to that end repeatedly refused,
aiftd as a last resort, has your oratrix beejn. constrained at
length reluctantly to apply to this, the only tribunal which
can afford relief, for an adjudication and determination of
,this question, of such vast importance to your bratrix and to
all of her people.
"(15.) All of the bonds and obligations and other evidences
of the indebtedness of the original State of Virginia outstanding and contracted on January 1, 1861, as stated in paragraph 1
of this bill, except a comparatively insignificant sum, not
amounting to one per cent. of the aggregate Of those liabilities,
have been taken up and are now actually held by your oratrix,
and she has the right to call upon West Virginia for a settlement VWith respect thereto. They are: too numerous and involve too great a number of transactions running through, many
years, for it to be practicable to exhibit them here in detail,
but the original bonds and other evidences'of indebtedness so
paid off or retired and nov held by your oratrix, will, when
it shall be proper to do so, be exhibited to the master, who
shall take the accounts hereinafter prayed for.
"(16.) Of the evidences of indebtedness representing principal and interest of the liabilities of Virginia:, contracted before
her dismemberment, those so paid off or retired by your oratrix
and now held by her in her own right' exclusive, of the amounts
represented by the certificates issued under the funding acts
aforesaid,, arount in the aggregate,. including the interest
to be fairly computed thereon to this date, to a very large sum,
considerably in excess of $25,000,000, by 'far the. greaterpart of it being now, of course, on account of the interest
computed thereon, .at the rate of 6% per annum, the then legal
rate in both States.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA,
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"For all of these obligations taken up and payments made
on account of the common debt, your oratrix has in her own
right, a just claim against West Virginia for contribution to
the extent of West Virginia's equitable liability therefor.
"(17.) In addition to the above bonds there were outstanding
on the first day of January, 1861, certain obligations of the State
of Virginia as guarantor upon some of the securities issued
by internal improvement companies, which your oratrix was
called upon to provide for -and settle. They were not comparatiyely of very large amount, however, and the questions
,involved in connection therewith can be stated and settled
in the account hereinafter prayed for to be taken between the
two States; and in such accounts your oratrix will also ask
to have included all such items of debit against the State of
West Virginia on account of the property and moneys of the
original State which were received or appropriated by West
Virginia which may not have been specifically or accurately
stated herein. These items of accounting between the two
States are so numerous and varied and extend throughout a
period of so many years' duration that it'is impossible from
the nature of the case to state all of them in this bill; and the
account between the two States can only be taken and settled,
and the balance due your oratrix thereon ascertained, under
the supervision of a court of equity..
"(18.) Your oratrix charges that the liability of the State
of West Virginia, for a just and equitable proportion of the
public debt of Virginia, as of the time when the State of West
Virginia was created,. rests upon the following among many
grounds which might be indicated here:
"First. The area of the territory now known as the State
of West Virginia formed about one-third of the territory of
the Commonwealth of Virginia when this public debt was
created, and its population included about one-third of that
of the original State at the time of its dismemberment. And
the State of West Virginia did, by the acquisition and appropriation of such territory, with the population thereof, assume

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

therewith -liability for a just and equitable proportion of the
public, debt created prior'to the partition of such territory.
"Second. The liability of West Virginia for a just proportion
of the public debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia, as it
existed. prior to the creation and erection of the State of West
Virginia, forms part of her very political existence, and is an
essential constituent of her fundamental law as shown in the
said ordinance adopted at Wheeling on the 20th day of August,
1861, in which the method of ascertaining her liability on
account of said debt is prescribed. And this liability is imbedded in the constitution under which she was admitted as
a State into the Federal Union, and was one of the conditions
under which she was created a State and admitted into the
Union.
"Third. The State of West Virginia has further, by the
repeated enactments and joint resolution of her legislature,
recognized her liability for a just proportion of this debt.
"Fourth. The State of West Virginia has, since her creation
as a State, received from the State of Virginia real and personal
property, amountifig in value to many millions of dollars,
and held and enjoyed the same, but upon express condition
that Ahe should duly account for the same in a settlement
thereafter to be had between her and the Commonwealth of
Virginia.
"Fifth. While .thetransfer of this property,, real and personal, and also of certain moneys of the Commonwealth of
Virginia, purport to have been made to the State of West
Virginia by the act of 'The Restored Government of Virginia,'
there were in fact represented in said 'Restored Government'
and in .the legislature thereof no other people and no other
territory *than that which then, as now, constitute the State
of West Virginia.
"(19.) The General Assembly of Virginia being anxious to
.effect a settlement -of the portion of the common debt of the
undivided State which remained unadjusted, and if possible
to bring this- about with the friendly co6peration and con-'

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
206 U. S.

305

Statement of the, Case.

currence of West Virginia, adopted: 'A joint resolution to provide for adjusting with the State of West Virginia the proportion of the public debt of the original State of Virginia proper
to be borne by the State of West Virginia, and for, the application of whatever may be received from the State of West
Virginia to the payment of those found to be entitled to the
same,' approved March'6, 1894. A copy of this resolitio.1
will be hereinafter shown as an exhibit to. this bill, to be read
as a part thereof.
"Under this resolution a commission of' seven members *as
appointed for the purpose of carrying into effect the objects
expressed therein.
I
"The efforts made by this commission, acting under the
above resolution to bring about a settlement with West Virginia having proved ineffectual, and the overture which the
commission, with'the active codperation of the Honorable
Charles T. O'Ferral, the then Governor of the Commonwealth,
made to the authorities of West Virginia for the purpose of
bringing about a friendly adjustment having been declined,
the General Assembly of Virginia ,passed the act approved
March 6, 1900, entitled 'An Act to provide for the settlement
with West Virginia of the proportion of the public. debt of
the original State of Virginia proper to be borne by West
Virginia, and 'for the protection of the Commonwealth of,
Virginia in the premises,' the purpose of which act. is sufficiently 'set forth in its title, and a Copy of the act will also be
hereinafter shown as one of the exhibits' herewith 'filed.
"(20.) The commission acting under sid last mentioned act
made most earnest efforts to- bring about an amicable adjust
ment of the matters hereinbefore .et forth with West Virginia,
but all of their efforts, in that behalf proved ineffectual and
unavailing. An application to this honorable court being
thus left as the only alternative for Virginia, this suit has been
instituted at the request and direction of the said commission,
and in strict conformity with the, provisions of the said act of
March 6, 1900, ,all of which will be more fully -and completely
VOL. ccvi-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Cae.

206 U. S.

shown by the report of the said commission dated January 6,
1906, made to the General Assembly of Virginia now in session,
a copy of which report and the documents accompanying the
same, and referred to therein, will be exhibited as a part of
this bill."
"(21)." Enumerates exhibits attached to the bill and prayed
to be regarded as part thereof.
"(22.)" The bill prayed: "Forasmuch, therefore, as your oratrix is remediless save in this form and forum, and to the end
that the State of West Virginia may be duly served, through
her Governor and Attorney-General, with 'a copy of this bill,
your oratrix prays that the said State of West Virginia may be
made a party defendant to this bill, and required to answer
the same; that all proper accounts may be. taken to determine
and ascertain the balance due from the State of West Virginia
to your oratrix, in her own right and as trustee as aforesaid;
that the principles upon which such accounting shall be had
may be ascertained and declared, and a true and proper settlement made of the matters and things above recited and set
forth; that such accounting be had and settlement made under
the supervision and direction of this court by such auditor
or master as may by the court be selected and empowered to
that end, and that proper and full reports of such accounting
and settlement may be made to this court; that the State of
West Virginia may be required to produce before such auditor
or master, so to be appointed, all such official entries, documents, reports and proceedings as may be among her public
records or official files and may tend to show the facts and the
true and actual state of accounts growing out of the matters
and things above recited and set forth, in order to a full and
correct settlement and adjustinent of the accounts between
the two States; that this court will adjudicate and determine
the amount due to your .oratrix by the State of West Virginia
in the premises; and that all such other and further and general
relief be granted unto your oratrix in the premises as the
nature of her case may require or to equity may seem meet."

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

-

Attached to the bill were the numerous exhibits referred to.
The State of West Virginia demurred and assigned special
causes a&follows:
"First. That it appears by said bill that there is a misjoinder of parties plaintiff and a misjoinder of causes of action.
The said bill is brought by the Commonwealth of Virginia
to recover debts alleged to be due to her in her own right from
the defendant for property and money alleged to have been
transferred and delivered to the defendant- under certain acts
of the legislature passed in 1863, and also, as trustee for the
owners of certain certificates. mentioned and. described in said
bill, to have an accounting to ascertain and declare the amount
claimed to be due from the defendant as her just proportion
of the public debt of the plaintiff prior to the first day of
January, 1861.
"Second. That this court has no jurisdiction of either the
parties to or the subject matter of this action, because it
appears by the said bill that the matters therein set forth do
not constitute, within the meaning of the Constitution of the
United States, such a controversy, or such controversies,
between the Commonwealth of Virginia and the State of
West Virginia as can be heard and determined in this court,
and this court has no power to render or enforce any final judgment or decree thereon.
.Third. That it appears by'said bill that the plaintiff herein
sues as trustee for the benefit of a number of individuals who
are the alleged owners of certain certificates in the said bill
set forth and described.
"Fourth. That the said bill does not state facts sufficient to
entitle the Commonwealth of Virginia to *the relief prayed for,
or to any relief, either in her own right or as trustee for the
owners of the certificates therein set forth and described.
"Fifth. That it does not appear by said bill that the Attorney General has ever been authorized to institute and
prosecute this suit in the 'name of the Commonwealth of
Virginia in her own right, but only as trustee for the use and

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Complainant.

206 U. S.

benefit of the owners of certain certificates mentioned in the
act of March 6, 1900, which is referred to and made part of
said bill.
"Sixth., That the said bill does not sufficiently
and definitely set forth the claims and demands relied upon, but the
allegations thereof are so indefinite and uncertain that no
proper answer can be made thereto.
"Seventh. That the allegations in the said bill are not
sufficient to entitle the plaintiff therein, either in her own
right or as trustee, to an account or to a discovery from this
defendant.
"Eighth. That the said bill does not contain any prayer for
a judgment or decree or any other final relief against this
defendant."
Hearing on the demurrer was had March 11, 12, 1907.
Mr. William A. Anderson, Attorney General of the State
of Virginia, and Mr. Holmes Conrad,for complainant:
The definitions of misjoinder under English chancery practice, as well as the practice in this country, show that there is
no such vice in the bill, while want of interest by a co-plaintiff
in the subject matter is ground of denmurrer. Story's Eq. Pl.,
§§ 231, 232, 508, 509; Mitf. P1. 160, 161. Plaintiffs who have
no common interest, but assert distinct and several claims
against one and the same defendant, cannot be joined. Story's
Eq. P1. § 279. On the other hand, where there is a community
of interests among co-plaintiffs desiring" the same relief against
a common defendant, they may be joined. Ware v. Duke of
Northumberland, 2 Anstruther's Rep. 469; Brickenhoff v.
Browns, 6 Johns. Ch. 139, 151, 152.
.It is impossible that there can'be any misjoinder of parties
plaintiff, because there is only one party plaintiff. Virginia,
in her corporate capacity, is the only plaintiff in the suit.
She does not sue in any representative capacity, though the
bill discloses the fact that, by reason of the arrangements
which she has made with the great mass of the holders of the

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
206 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

bonds 'of the old State, she does hold in her possession nearly
all of those bonds as a depository, and quoad the custody
thereof that she holds them in a fiduciary capacity; but she
does not sue as trustee, but sues in her own name, for the
purpose of obtaining the equitable relief to which the bill
shows that she is fairly entitled.
One interest is'that she shall be exonerated, at least to the
extent of West Virginia's liability therefor, from any obligation to pay the bonds.
To obtain such just exoneration she has invoked the equitable jurisdiction of this' court.
West Virginia is justly liable on many grounds for a just
proportion of the public debt of her parent State, Virginia;
West Virginia has not only repudiated and openly disavowed
all such liability, but she has appropriated to her own use a
large amount in value of the public property of Virginia,
which Virginia might properly have applied as part of her
public assets, to the payment of her public debt; and now,
when by this bill in equity Virginia calls on West Virginia to
account for the -property which she has appropriated and
applied to her own uses, and to come in before this court and
have her proportion of the public debt ascertained, West Virginia, by her demurrer, protests that"the part of the public
debt which she owes and the part of the public assets which
she has appropriated to her own use are two subjects of complaint so distinct and unconnected as should relieve her from
making answer to the bill. This case is entirely different from'
New York v.- Louisiana and New Hampshire v. Louisiana,
108 U. S. 78, where neither State had any direct or personal
interest in the bonds of Louisiana or in'.the subject matters
of controversy in those suits, but were mere volunteers, selfconstituted trustees, without sustaining any relation, or interest, or obligation, or liability in regard to the bonds, or to
any question presented in those causes.
While it may be true that, as to the custody of some of
these unsatisfied bonds, Virginia sustains the relation of'

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant.

206 U. S.

trustee, she has an enormous interest as to those bonds-an
interest as substantial and as real, if not in fact as great,
as if she had actually paid these bonds in full.
The ground of demurrer that this court has no jurisdiction
of either, the parties to or the subject matter of this action,
because the matters therein set forth do not constitute, within
the meaning of the Constitution of the United States, such a
controversy as can be heard and determined in this court, and
this court has no power to render or enforce any final judgment or decree thereon, is untenable. Chisholm v. Georgia,
2 Dall. 419; Hans v. Louisana, 134 U. S. 1; Cohens v. Virginia,
6 Wheat. 364, 375, 440; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U.-S. 125;
Missouriv.Illinois, 180 U. S. 240'.
This-question has been directly passed upon by this court
and its jurisdiction over controversies arising upon pecuniary
demands has been sustained in Georgia v. Brailsford, 2 Dall.
402; Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700; Florida v. Anderson, 91 U. S.
667; Alabama v. Burr et al., 115 U. S. 413; and eyen more
emphatically and Conclusively in United States v. North Carolina, 136 U. S. 211; United States v. Texas, 143 U. S. 621; and
United.States V. Michigqn, 190 U. S, 379,396, 406.
Mr. John G. Carlisle and Mr. Charles E. Hogg, with whom
Mr. C. W. May, Attorney General of the State of West Virginia, -Mr. W. Mollchan, Mr. George W. McClintic and Mr.
W. G. Mathews were on the brief, for defendant:
To create a controversy between two States, it seems to us
that there must be an assertion of a substantial right of one
State as such which is denied or repudiated by the other, and
which relates to the interests of each as States, and that the
determination of the isssue thus raised will promote or secure
some substantial right of the one or the other of these States
as States. New, Jersey v. New York, 5 Pet. 285; Rhode Island v.
Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657; Florida v. Georgia, 11 How. 293;
Virginia v. West Virginia, 11 Wall. 39, were cases in equity
and all involved state boundaries. Pennsylvania v. Wheeling

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
206 U. S.

Argument for Defendant.

Bridge Company, 9 How. 657; S. C., 11 How. 528; S. C., 13
How. 518; S. C., 18 How. 429, was a case in equity involving
the free and unobstructed navigation of the Ohio Rive'r which
caused a special'damage to the plaintiff State for which there
was no adequate remedy at law.
The Commonwealth of Virginia has no such interest in
the subject matter of, litigation or in the result thereof, so
far as the deferred certificates are concerned, as to give her
any standing in a court of equity in relation thereto.
The right of Virginia to maintain a suit as sole plaintiff
therein, must be determined by the well settled rules of equity
practice as recognized and enforced by the English Court of
Chancery, and as understood and applied by this court.
Virginia has no interest in these certificates, nor can her
interests be in any manner affected by a decree in relation to
these certificates.
If she has any connection with this part of the suit it is as
its mere promoter, by virtue of her promise to the holders of
the certificates-an agent for them-only an instrumentality
for the institution of this suit.
This is not such interest as to support a suit in -equity.
The plaintiff's interest must be as substantial and certain as
that of the defendant. Smith v. Hollenbeck, 46 Illinois, 252;
Smith v. Brittenham, 109 Illinois, 540; Ashby v. Ashby, 39
La. Ann. 105; S. C., 1 So. Rep. 282; Field v. Maghee, 5 Paige,
539; Rogers v. Traders' Ins. Co., 6 Paige, 583; Sedgwick v.
Cleveland, 7 Paige, 267.
The real owners of the deferred certificates have such a
substantial interest and right of ownership therein as to make
them indispensable parties, whose presence would oust the
court of its jurisdiction.
The practice in this court in cases in equity is regulated by
the former practice of the courts of chancery in England.
And in cases of original jurisdiction it will frame its proceedings according to those which had been adopted in the English courts in analogous cases, and follow the general rules

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant.

206 U. S.

of those courts in conducting a cause to a finality. California
v. Southern Pacific Railroad, 157 U. S. 229, 249.
The only instance wherein the court will deviate from or
refuse to follow this praictice is when it impairs the case by
unnecessary technicalities, or defeats the purpose of justice.
California v. Southern Pacific Ry. Co., supra; citing Floridav.
Georgia, 17 How. 478; Caldwell v. Taggart, 4 Pet. 190; Barney
v. Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280.
In the case before the court the holders of the deferred
certificates, who own both the legal and equitable title thereto,
are not made parties. The only plaintiff seeking relief is the
State of Virginia, who has brought the suit in her own name
without any title to this part of the subject matter of the
suit, and without any direct or substantial interest in the
result thereof. The purpose of this suit is to settle the liability of West Virginia on these deferred certificates to the
owners and holders thereof, and any decree which is rendered
in this case must relate solely to their rights. The court cannot enter any decree with reference to these certificates which
must not necessarily affect the interests of these outstanding
owners and holders, who are not before the court either as
plaintiffs or defendants.
The purpose of the bill is not only to fix a liability on the
State of West Virginia for the payment of these certificates,
but also for an accounting to determine the extent of this
liability. So it is clearly and at once perceivable that the
holders of these certificates are vitallr interested as to both
of these purposes of the suit.
The fact that the commissioners of the Sinking Fund and
Literary Fund of, Virginia have in their possession comparatively small portions of the said certificates issued by thd
plaintiff does not give the plaintiff any cause of action against
the defendant.
The plaintiff cannot assert the claim which she sets forth
in her bill. in a court of equity.
The prosecutior of this suit by Virginia is solely in the

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
206 U. S.

313

Argument for Defendant.

interests of the owners and holders of the deferred certificates
issued by Virginia herself' without recourse upon her, and set
apart as a liability of West Virginia to the holders of the old
obligations, which have been surrendered to the State of
Virginia and by her cancelled in accordance with her own
acts of legislation.
She therefore cannot come into a court of equity to assert
a right of contribution' against West Virginia; the decree
which she seeks to obtain cannot inure to her benefit, but
only to that of the holders of the deferred- certificates; she
must have paid everything for which she and the new State
were jointly liable so as to relieve the new State from all
liability before she can seek -contribution from her joint obligor.
That this is the principle upon which rests the equitable
right of contribution is the recognized and well settled doctrine of the courts. Springer v. Foster, 21 Ind. App. 15;
S. C., 60 N. E. Rep. 720; Kirkpatrick v. Murphy, 3 N. J. Law,
506; Grove v. O'Brien, 1 Maryland, 438; Rooker v. Benson,
83. Indiana, 250, 256; Zook-v. Clemmer, 44 Indiana, 15; Pegram v. Riley, 88 Alabama, 399; S. C., 6 So. Rep. 753; Screven v.
Joiner, 1 Hill Ch.252; S. C., 26 Am. Dec. 199.
The party seeking contribution must have paid more than
his share i order to maintain a suit for contribution. 9 Cyc.
699; 3 Am. & Eng. Dec. in Eq.'163.
The demand made by Virginia which she claims arises
out of the acts of her General Assembly, passed February 3d
and 4th, respectively, in the year 1863, whereby she transferred certain real and personal property belonging to her
to be used by the new State when created and organized,
ff it has any validity, which is not conceded here, is purely
a legal demand and one, which cannot be asserted under any
circumstances in a court of equity.
If it. be an equitable demand, upon what principle or doctrine of equity does it rest? It is not secured by any lien;
it is not in the nature of a trust; it rests upon no equities to
be asserted in order to enter a decree or to make the claim

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant.

206 U. S.

available. It is simply a money demand for the value of
property which the plaintiff claims was used and appropriated
by the defendant for. which payment should be made.
In the Fqderal courts the right of trial by jury under the
Seventh Amendment cannot be dispensed with except by the
assent of the parties entitled to it, nor can it be impaired by
any blending with a claim, properly cognizable at law, of a demand for equitable relief in aid of the legal action or during
its pendency. Such aid in the Federal courts must be sought
in separate proceedings, to the end that the right to a trial
by jury in a legal action may be preserved intact. Scott v.
Neely, 140 U. S. 106, 117.
This court has no jurisdiction to settle or determine the
principle upon which West Virginia shall be made liable for
any portion of the old debt of Virginia, because this was
matter of contract between Virginia and West Virginia upon
the admission of the latter into the Union.
When West Virginia framed her constitution and inserttd
in it the provision concerning the public debt of Virginia
created prior to 1861, and the State of Virginia through her
legislature accepted the constitution of West Virginia as the
basis of her consent, this created a compact between the two
States and was absolutely binding )oth upon Virginia and
-West Virginia.
By this compact between Virginia and West Virginia,
the former State referred to the legislature of the latter the
matter of ascertaining "an equitable proportion of the public
debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia prior to the first day
of January, 1861," and therefore this- "proportion" cannot
be otherwise ascertained or determined than by the consent
of the State of West Virginia; nor can its liquidation be otherwise provided for than by a sinldng fund sufficient in amount
to pay the accruing interest, and redeem the principal of whatever sum may thus be ascertained as the equitable proportion
that West Virginia agreed to assume. Virginia referred this
matter absolutely to the judgment of the legislature of West

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Virginia and tacitly agreed to abide by the action of this
legislative body.
This stipulation or compact between Virginia and West
Virginia, with reference to the public debt of the former, is
a valid and binding contract, and Virginia can do nothing,.
either by legislation or otherwise, to impair its obligation.
West Virginia has the undoubted moral and legal right to
stand upon its terms; and if in the exercise of its judgment
exercised upon'a basis just and equitable, it should be ascertained by the legislature of West Virginia that the State
owes nothing to the bondholders of the old debt of Virginia,
then there is no obligation whatever subsisting which can be
enforced by the holders of any part of the old debt of Virginia,
and especially has Virginia herself no cause of action against
this State.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The State of West Virginia was admitted into the Union
June 20, 1863, under the proclamation of the President of the
United States of April 20, 1863, in pursuance of the act of
Congress approved December 31, 1862, upon the terms. and
conditions prescribed by the Commonwealth of Virginia in
ordinances adopted in convention and in acts passed by the
General Assembly of the "Rtestored Government of the Commonwealth," giving her consent to the formation of a new
State out of her territory, with a constitution adopted for the
new State by the people thereof. The ninth section of the
ordinance adopted by the people of the "Restored State of
Virginia" in convention assembled in the city of Wheeling,
Virginia, on August 20, 1861, entitled "An ordinance to provide
for the formation of a new State out of a portion of the territory of this State," provided as follows:
"9. The new State shall take upon itself a just proportion
:of the public debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia, prior to

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

the first day of January, 1861, to be ascertained by charging
to it all state expenditures within the limits thereof, and a
just proportion of the ordinary expenses of the state government, since any part of. said debt was contracted; and deducting therefrom the monies paid into the treasury of the Commonwealth from the counties included within the said new State
during the same period. All private rights and interests in
lands within the proposed State, derived from the laws of
Virginia prior to. such separation, shall remain valid and secure
under the laws of the proposed State, and shall be determined
by the laws now existing in the State of Virginia. ... ."
The consent of the Commonwealth of Virginia was given to
the formation of a-new State on this condition. February 3
and 4, 1863, the General Assembly of the "Restored State of
Virginia" enacted two statutes in pursuance of the provisions
of which money and property amounting to and of the value
of several millions of dollars were, after the admission of the
new -State, paid over and transferred to West Virginia. The
constitution of the State of West Virginia when'admitted contained these provisions, being sections 5, 7 and 8 of Article VIII
thereof, as follows:
".5. No debt shall be contracted by this State, except to
meet casual deficits in the revenue, to redeem a previous
liability of the State, to suppress insurrection, repel invasion,
or defend the State in time of war.".
"7. The legislature may at any time direct .asale of the
stocks owned by the State in banks and other corporations,
but the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to the liquidation
of the public debt; and hereafter the State shall not become
"
a stockholder in any bank.
"8. An equitable proportion of .the public debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia, prior to the first day of January, in
.the year one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one, shall be
assumed by this State; and the legislature shall ascertain the
same as soon as may be practicable, and provide for the liquidation thereof, by a sinking fund sufficient to pay the accru-

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
206 U. S.

Opinion-of the Court.

ing interest, and redeem the principal within thirty-four
years."
The "public debt" aifd the "previous liability" manifestly
.referred to a portion of the public debt of the original State of
Virginia and liability for the money and property of the original
State, which had been received by West Virginia under the
acts of the General Assembly above cited, enacted while the
territory and people afterwards forming the State of West
Virginia constituted a part of the Commonwealth of Virginia,
though one may be involved in the other; while the provisions
of sections 7 and 8 were obviously framed in compliance with
the conditions on which the consent of Virginia was given to
the creation of the State of :West Virginia, and the money and
property were transferred. From 1865 to 1905 various efforts
were made by Virginia through its constituted authorities to
effect an adjustment and settlement with West Virginia for an
equitable proportion of the .public debt of the undivided State,
proper to be borne and paid by West Virginia, but all these
efforts proved unavailing, and it is charged that West Virginia
refused or failed to take any action or do anything for the purpose of bringing about a settlement or adjustment with Virginia.
The original jurisdiction of this court was, therefore, inyoked by Virginia to procure a decree for an accounting as
1-dtween the two States, and, in order to a full and correct
adjustment of the accounts, the adjudication and determination
of the amount due Virginia by West Virginia in the premises.
But it is objected that this court has no jurisdiction because
the matters set forth in the bill do not constitute such a controversy or such controversies as can be heard and determined
in this court, and because the court has no power to enforce
and therefore none to render any final judgment or decree
herein. We think these objections are disposed of by many
decisions of this court. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264,
378, 406; Kansasv. Colorado, 185 U. S.125; Kansas v. Colorado,
May 13, 1907, ante, p. 46; Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S.208;
S. C., 200 U. S. 496; Georgia v. Copper Company, May 13,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

1907, ante, p. 230; United States v. Texas, 143 U. S. 621;
United States v. North Carolina, 136 U. S.211; United States
v. Michigan, 190 U. 5. 379.
In Cohens v. Virginia, the Chief Justice said: "In the second
class, the jurisdiction depends entirely on the character of
the parties. In this are comprehended 'controversies between
two or more States, between a State and citizens of another
State,' 'and between a State and foreign States, citizens or
subjects.' If these be the parties, it is entirely unimportant
what may be the subject of controversy. Be it what it may,
these parties have a constitutional right to come into the
courts of the Union."
And, referring to the Eleventh Amendment, it was further
said:
"It is'
a part of our history, that, at the adoption of the
Constitution, all the States were greatly indebted; and the
apprehension that these debts might be prosecuted in the
Federal courts formed a very serious objection to that instrument. Suits were instituted; and the court maintained
its jurisdiction. The alarm was general; and, to quiet the
apprehensions that were so extensively entertained, this
amendment was proposed in Congress, and adopted by the
state legislatures. That its motive was not to maintain the
sovereignty of a State from the degradation supposed to attend a compulsory appearance before the tribunal of the Nation,
may be inferred from the terms of the amendment. It -does
not comprehend controversies between two or more States,
or between a State and a foreign State. The jurisdiction of
the court still extends to these cases; and in these a State may
still be sued. We must ascribe the amendment, then, to some
other cause than the dignity of a State. There is no difficulty
in finding this cause. Those who were inhibited from commencing a suit against a State, or from prosecuting one which
might be commenced before the adoption of the amendment,
iwere persons who might probably be its creditors. There
was not much reason to fear that foreign or sister States would

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
206 U. S.

319

Opinion of the Court.

be creditors to any considerable amount, and there was reason
to retain the jurisdiction of the court in those cases, because
it might be essential to the preservation of peace. The amendment, therefore, extended to suits commenced or prosecuted
by individuals, but not to those brought by States."
By the cases cited, and there are many more, it is established
that, in the exercise of original jurisdiction as between States,
this court necessarily in such a case as this has jurisdiction.
United States v. North Carolina and United States v. Michigan, supra,were controversies arising upon pecuniary demands,
and jurisdiction was exercised in those cases just as in those
for the prevention of the flow of polluted water from one
State along'the borders of another State, or of the diminution
in the natural flow of rivers by the'State in which they have
their sources through and across another State or States,
or of the discharge of noxious gases from works in one State
over the territory of -another.
The object of the suit is a settlement with West Virginia,
and to that end a determination and adjudication of the
amount due by that State to Virginia, and when this court
has ascertained and adjudged. the proportion of the debt
of the original State which it would be equitable for West
Virginia to pay, it is not to be presumed on demurrer that
West Virginia would refuse to carry out the decree of this
court. If such repudiation should be absolutely asserted
we can then consider by what means the decree may be enforced. Consent to be sued was given when West Virginia was
admitted into the Union, and it must be assumed that the
legislature of West Virginia would in the natural course
make provision for the satisfaction of any decree that may be
rendered.
It is, however, further insisted that this court cannot proceed to judgment because of an alleged compact entered into
between Virginia and West Virginia, with the consent of
Congress,. by which the question of the liability of West Virginia to Virginia was submitted to the arbitrament and award

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

of. the legislature of West Virginia as the sole tribunal which
could pass upon it. As. we have seen, the constitution of
West Virginia when admitted into the Union contained the
provision: "An equitable proportion of the public debt of
the Commonwealth of Virginia prior to the first day of January,
one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one, shall be assumed
by this State, and the legislature shall ascertain the same as
soon as may be practicable and provide for the liquidation
of the same by a sinking fund and redeem the principal within
thirty-four years." And it is said that, on May 13, 1862, the
legislature of Virginia passed an act entitled "An act giving
the consent of the Legislature of Virginia to the formation
and erection of a new State within the jurisdiction of this
State," by which consent was given to the creation of the proposed new State, "according to the boundaries and under
the provisions set forth in the Constitution for the said State
of West Virginia, and the schedule thereto annexed, proposedby the convention which assembled at Wheeling on the twentysixth day of November, 1861;" and that by the act of Congress
the consent of that body was given to all those provisions
which thusbecame a constitutional and legal compact between
the two States. The act of May 13, 1862, was not made apart of the case stated in the bill, and its validity is denied by
counsel for Virginia, but it is unnecessary to go into that, for
when Virginia, on August 20, 1861, by ordinance provided
"for the formation of a new State out of the territory of this
State," and declared therein that "the new State shall take
upon itself a just proportion of the public debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia prior to the first day of January, 1861,"
to be ascertained as provided, it is to be supposed that the new
State had this in mind when it framed its own constitution,
and that when that instrument provided that its legislature
should "ascertain the same as soon as practicable," it referred
to the method of ascertainment prescribed by the Virginia
convention. Reading the Virginia ordinance and the West
Virginia constitutional provision in part mateia, it follows

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
.206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that what was meant by the expression that the "legislature
shall ascertain" was that the legislature should ascertain as
soon as practicable the result of the, pursuit of the method
prescribed, and provide for the liquidation of the amount so
ascertained. And it may well be inquired why, in the fortythree years that have elapsed since the alleged compact was
entered into, West Virginia has never indicated that she stood
upon such a compact, and, if so, why no step has ever been,
taken by West Virginia to enter upon the, performance of the
duty which such "compact" imposed, and to notify Virginia
that she was ready and willing to discharge such duty.
It is also urged that Virginia had no interest in the subject
matter of the controversy because she had been released from
.all liability on account of the public debt of' the old Commonwealth, evidenced by her bonds outstanding on- the first day
of January, 1861. This relates -to the acts of the General
Assembly of .Virginia' of March 30, 1871, March 28, 1879,
February 14, 1882, February 20, 1892, March 6, 1894, and
March 6, 1900. According to the bill, Virinia by the act of
March 30, 1871, 'and subsequent acts, in an attempt to provide for the funding and payment of the public debt, having
estimated that the liability of West Virginia was for one-third
of the amount of the old bonds, provided for the issue of new
bonds to the amount of two-thirds of the total, and for the
issue of certificates for the other third, which showed that
Virginia held the old bonds so far as unfunded in trust for the
holders or their assignees to be paid by the funds expected to be
obtained from West Virginia as her "just and equitable proportion of the-public debt." The legislation resulted in the
surrender of most -of the old bonds to Virginia, satisfied as to
two-thirds, and held as security for the creditors as to onethird. We do not care to take up.and discuss' this legislation.
We are satisfied that as we have jurisdiction, these questions
ought not to be passed upon on demurrer. Kansas v. Colorado,
185 U. S. 125, 144, 145. And this also furnishes sufficient
ground for not considering at length the objection of multiVOL. CCVI-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

fariousness. The observations of Lord Cottenham, in Campbell v. Mackay, 1 Mylue & Craig, 603, that it is impracticable
to lay down any rule as to what constitutes multifariousness,
-as an abstract proposition; that each case must depend upon
its own circumstances; and much must be left where the
authorities leave it, to the sound discretion of the court, have
been often affirmed in this court.. Oliver v. Piatt, 3 How. 333,
411; Gaines v. Relf, 2 How. 619, 642. But we do not mean to
rle that the bill is multifarious. It is true that the prayer
contains, among, other things, the request, "that all proper
accounts may be taken to determine and ascertain the balance
due from the State of West Virginia to your oratrix in her
own right and as trustee aforesaid," but it also prays that
the court "will adjudicate and determine the amount due to
your oratrix by the State of West Virginia in the premises."
Aid we understand the reference to holding in trust to be in the
interest of mere convenience, and that the bill cannot properly
be regarded as seeking in chief anything more than a decree
for "an equitable proportion of the public debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia on the first day of January, 1861."
The objections of misjoinder of parties and misjoinder of
causes of action may be treated 'as resting on matter of surplusage merely, and atall events further consideration thereof
may wisely be postponed to final hearing. Floridav. Georgia,
17 How. 491, 492; California v. Southern Pacific Gompany,
157 U. S. 249.
The order.will be.Demurrer overruled without prejudice to any question, and
leave to answer by the first Monday of next term.

