ILLINOIS CENT. &c. R. R. v. INTER. COM. COMM. 441
206 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY, GULF AND
SHIP ISLAND RAILROAD COMPANY, SOUTHERN
RAILROAD COMPANY v. THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
-APPEALFROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 588. Argued April 22, 23, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.
The findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission are made by the law
prima facie true, and this court has ascribed to them the strength due to
the judgments of a tribunal appointed by law and informed by experience.
The reasonableness of a rate is a question of fact, and while the conclusions
of the commission are subject to review if that body excludes facts and
circumstances that ought to'have been considered they will not after
having been affirmed by the Circuit Court and Circuit Court of Appeals,
be reversed because the commission did not adopt the presumptions of
mixed law and fact put forward by appellants as elements for determining
the reasonableness of a rate.
A presumption is the expression of a process of reasoning and of inferring
one fact from another, and most if not all the rules of indirect evidence
may be expressed as such, but the fact on which the inference is based'
must first be established before the law can draw its inference.
Where the inquiry before the Interstate Commerce Commission is essentially
one of fact, the existence of competition cannot in this court be made an
inference of law dominating against the actual findihgs of the commission
and their affirmance by the Circuit Court.
In determining the reasonableness of a railroad rate, expenditures for additions to construction and equipment to handle the traffic should be distributed over the period of the duration of those additions and not charged
entirely against the revenue of the year in which they are made. Union
Pacific Railway Co. v. United States, 99 U. S. 402, distinguished.

THIS case involves the validity of an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission requiring the appellants "to cease
and desist on or before the first day of April, 1905, from further
maintaining or enforcing the unlawful advance of two cents
per hundred pounds, or the said unlawful rates resulting therefrom, for the transportation of lumber from shipping points

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

on defendants' respective lines in the State of Louisiana east
of the Mississippi River and in the States of Mississippi and
Alabama to Cincinnati, Louisville,. Evansville, Cairo, and
other points on the Ohio River commonly called and known
as Ohio River Points."
The order was made in the matter of the complaint filed with
the Commission by the Central Yellow Pine Association, an
incorporated association composed of persons, firms and
corporations engaged in the business of manufacturing yellow
pine lumber in the States, of Mississippi, Alabama, and that
part of Louisiana east of the Mississippi River.
The complaint charged that the appellants were common
carriers by rail, engaged. in interstate commerce, and as such
were engaged in the transportation of yellow pine lumber
from the mills and lumber plants of the members of the Yellow
Pine Lumber Association to the territory known as the "Central Freight Association Territory," which lies on the north
of the Ohio River and on and between the Mississippi River
on the west and a*line running. through Buffalo and Pittsburg
on the east, and'that the members• of the association are dependent upon appellants for the transportation of their lumber
to the markets of the country; that the appellants and the
railways carrying yellow pine lumber to the same markets from
the territory west of the Mississippi River, embracing the
States of Texas, Arkansas, and that part of :Louisiana west
of the river, by agreement or concert of action advanced the
rate on yellow pine lumber from the .territories both east and
west of the Mississippi River on and beyond the Ohio River
in Central Freight Association Territory two cents per hundred
pounds. The advance was made applicable south of the Ohio
River and effective on and from April '15, 1903, except as to
the. Louisville and Nashville road; as to. which it became
effective June 22, 1903. And it was alleged that such advance
was "unjustj unreasonable, as well as discriminative in violation of the Act to Regulate Commerce." The answer of the
railways admitted the advance, but denied that it had the

ILLINOIS CENT. &c. R. R. v.INTER. COM. COMM. 443
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

character and effect charged, but alleged that, on the contrary, it was reasonable and just and not in violation of law.
The answers. also specifically justified the advance by the
conditions of the market and the traffic, including competition,
and the costs of operating the roads. Testimony was taken
on the issues thus formed.
The Commission sustained the complaint and made the
.order recited above. 10 I. C. C. R. 505. The railways refused
to obey. The Commission then instituted this proceeding
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, where further proof was taken and a
decree rendered which affirmed the order of the Commission
and made it the order of the court. The roads were also enjoined from further disobedience to the order. No opinion
was filed. The testimony was voluminous, and the report
and findings of the Commission are very long. They are
reported in 10 I. C. C. R. 505, supra. The conclusions of the
Commission are mingled somewhat with legal arguments,
but the following may be selected as important and pertinent
to the questions which the controversy presents:
The lumber producing districts are divided in territory
(1) west of the Mississippi River; (2) territory east of the
river; and (3) southeastern territory, composed of the States
of Georgia, Florida, and part of Alabama. The lumber producers of each of these districts compete in the sale of their
products in "Central Freight Association Territory."
The roads of the appellants are located in and serve the
second of these territories. The advance in rates was made as well in territory west of
the Mississippi River, "and was made, in fact, though not
expressly, by agreement between the defendants (appellants)
and the roads'west of the river," after several meetings,
at
a consultation between the representatives of the roads. The
roads east of the river took the initiative.
At Cairo traffic from a large portion of the lumber producing
districts meets or converges en route to destination. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

rates on other Ohio River crossings are based on Cairo; that
is, they bear a fixed relation to the Cairo rate, being advanced
or reduced as that rate is advanced or reduced. The through
rates to points beyond the Ohio River in Central Freight
Association Territory are made up of the full local rates of the
roads north of the Ohio as the proportions of those roads.
Whatever is left of the through rates are the proportions of
the roads south of the Ohio. The rates to interior points
north of the Ohio are made on the lowest combination rates
to the Ohio plus the rates beyond, and are blanket rates,
being the same from all shipping points or points of production
to the same destination. The rates to the Ohio are to the
north bank and include the bridge tolls.
There are divisions of rates south of the Ohio between what
are termed the "originating" roads, on which the lumber is
principally manufactured, and the roads intermediate between
them and the river.
There had been from time to time changes or fluctuations
inthe rate. Prior to 1894 the roads west of the Mississippi
claimed and were allowed a differential of two cents. This
placed at a disadvantage the shippers east of the Mississippi,
and a readjustment of rates was made, and on May 1, 1894,
the rate to Cairo from east of the Mississippi was reduced to
thirteen cents per hundred pounds, the rate in force from west
of the Mississippi. This rate remained until September 9,
1899, about five years, when it was advanced to fourteen
cents, and so remained until April 15, 1903, nearly four years,
when the advance of two cents complained of was made.
The railroads west of the Mississippi make a certain allowance
to the mills which have "logging roads," that is, roads by
which logs are hauled from the timber to the mills. This is
called "tap line allowance or division." It ranges one to
two cents per one hundred pounds, up to as high as six cents,
and varies, to some extent, according to the destination of
the traffic. The mills east of the river have logging roads also,
but appellants make no allowance to them. The only exception

ILLINOIS CENT. &c. R. R. v. INTER. COM.COMM. 445
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

is the Mobile and Ohio road, which grants allowances to about
four mills on its line. The New Orleans and Northeastern
road put in a tap line allowance of two cents, but other roads
east of the river objected, and it was withdrawn. There does
not appear to be any reason for such allowance west of the
Mississippi which does not apply east of that river, and it
amounts to a rebate or reduction from the regularly published
rate, and gives an advantage to the mills west of the Mississippi
over those east, although the published rates from both are
the same.
The lumber business had grown from its inception and was
largely and possibly more prosperous than it had been before,
but the proof does not show that for two or three years preceding the advance the prices of mill products had materially
increased or that the profits realized were unusual or excessively large.
As to the operating expense of the roads the Commission
said:
. "The proof shows increase in wages and in prices of material
and equipment, but not in a marked degree for the two years,
1901 and 1902, immediately preceding the advance rate.
These increases have doubtless added materially to the operating expenses, but the total annual increases in those expenses are, of course, due only in part to the advances in wages
and prices of supplies and equipment. They are attributable
in a grepat measure to the constant growth or enlargement
of the business of the roads. Not only has the lumber business
of the roads greatly increased, but their business in general.
The greater the volume of business, the greater is the aggregate
cost of conducting it, or, in other words, of operating the
roads. The total operating expenses of the roads, as reported
by them, have also been much enlarged by the inclusion.
therein of large expenditures for permanent improvements.
"While the operating expenses of the defendants have
constantly grown, the .gross earnings from operation have also

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

increased from year to year to such an extent as to have resulted in a constant increase in net earnings. This is shown
in the tables set forth in our findings of fact (Finding 14)."
Sufficient cause was. not shown, either in the alleged profit
in the lumber business or in the increased cost of operating the
roads, for the advance in the rates on lumber. And answering
the" contenti6n that the former rate was not adequately remunerative, the Commission expressed the view that "reasonableness in this sense of a rate on a single article of traffic is
one of almost insuperable difficulty." And further, that the
value of the entire property of a road "can shed but little,
if any, light upon the question." The rate on one article
might reasonably or unreasonably be high and the total of
rates be remunerative or otherwise. But, it was concluded,
even if that be a mistaken view, it was impossible with any
degree of accuracy to determine from the voluminous and
conflicting testimony on the subject introduced in behalf of
both parties what was the value of the property employed
by the roads. The Commission thought that the elements
to be considered in determining the reasonableness of an
entire system of rates were "widely Variant" from those. to be
considered in determining the reasonableness of a single rate,
and expressed the elements upon which the latter depends
to be "the value, volume, and other characteristics affecting
the, transportation of the particular commodity to which it is
applied." The Commission referred to its findings of facts as
having "many things disclosed by the evidence" :which bore
directly upon the reasonableness of the particular rate in
question, and which aided it in arriving at a correct judgment
in respect thereto, saying that:
"In the first place,. the present advanced, rate is the last
(up to date) of a series of advances and was made by joint or
concerted action of the carriers. It is claimed by them that
in advancing the rate they acted independently, each for
itself, but the proof shows conclusively that the advance was
the outcome of a concert of. action and a previous under-

ILLINOIS CENT. &c. R. R. v. INTER. COM. COMM. 447
206 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

Through their authorized
standing between the companies.
official representatives they conferred with each other repeatedly as to the making of an advance; recognized the fact
that, because of competition in common markets between
the lumber producing districts served by them, the advance
should be from all those districts or none, and finally they
all promulgated the advance to take effect at exactly the
same time and.for exactly the same amount. This concurrence
of action was not only between the railway companies, parties
defendant in this case, and in relation to the rates charged
by them, but was participated in by the lumber hauling roads
serving the territories west as well as east of the Mississippi
River."
The fourteen-cent rate in force at the date of the advance
had been maintained nearly four years, and a still lower rate,
thirteen cents, had been maintained for the preceding five
years and four months. And the testimony of the officers
of the roads was that there was a profit in both rates. The
answer also admitted profit, but averred that lumber "was
n4ot an exceedingly -profitable commodity." The'Commission
said:
"No reason is given or shown why lumber, should be singled
out as a commolity up(- which an- 'exceedingly large profit
should be earned. A reasonable pvfit is all the defendants,
are entitled to, and tho testimony is far from convincing us
.tht.the profit under the fourteen-cent rate was not reasonable
or would not now be reasonable. As stated. in our 'Findings
of Facts,' the fourteen-cent- rate appears to be reasonably
iiigh when compared With the rate on other commodities
which are at all analogous to lumber. in respect to value, volume
and the various conditions'affecting the service -of transportation. During the period from 1894 to 1899: while the thirteencent r'ate was operative, there were large annual increases in
the net earnings'of the defendants, and the same was- the case
from 1899 to 1903, while the fourteen-cent r-ate Was operative
(Finding 15). During those periods there was also a large

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

growth in the tonnage of lumber hauled by the defendants,
and, therefore, their increases in net earnings were in part,
at least, derived from the lumber traffic under those rates.
Dividends have been declared during those periods, and in
addition considerable surpluses have been reported (Finding 16)
and large sums have been invested in permanent improvements or betterments (Finding 14)."
The seventh and eighth conclusions of the Commission we
give 'entire, as follows;
"The defendants, other than the originating roads, complain
of the small amount of revenue or low rate per ton per mile
realized by them out of their proportions of the through rates.
This is due to the large allowances out of the rates made to
the originating roads. (See' Findings 3 and 4.) Those allowances commenced under the lower rates in force prior to
the advance and raise the presumption that those lower rates,
minus the allowances were then considered reasonably remunerative for the remainder of the hauls to the Ohio River
crossings. As the two cents advance goes entirely to the
roads continuing the transportation on to the Ohio and none
of it to the originating roads, the inference is that advance was
made solely with a view of increasing the proportions of the
former roads. If the allowances to the originating roads are
unreasonably large, as they appear to be from a distant standpoint, and result in unreasonably low proportion to the other
roads, this cannot be remedied by an advance in the total
through rates charged the public. It is the total rate, and not
its proportions, which is in issue.
"Although both the net and gross earnings of the defendants
have grown from year to year, the percentages of what are
reported by the defendants as 'operating expenses' to earnings have also somewhat increased (Table, Finding 14), and
this is urged as showing the necessity for an advance in the
lumber and some other rates. It is to be noted that these
operating expenses embrace large annual expenditures for
'real estate, right of way, tunnels, bridges, and other strictly

ILLINOIS CENT. &c. R. R. v. INTER. COM. COMM. 449
206 U. S.

•Statement

of the Case.

permanent improvements, and also. for equipment, such as'
locomotives and cars.'"
And the Commission said repirs, whether' to improvement.
or equipment, were properly chargeable to operating expenses,
but that expenditures for improvements and equipments!
should not "be taxed as part of the current or operating expenses of a single year, but should be, so far as practicable,
and so far as rates exacted from the public aie concerned,
'projected proportionately over the future.' " It was said.
further, if such expenditures should be deducted from the
annual operating expenses it would be found that the percentage of operating expenses to earnings had, in some instances,
diminished, and in others increased, to no material extent.
The tenth and eleventh conclusions are As follows:.
"10.- The general rule is, the greater, the tonnage of an
article of traffic, the lower. is the rate. No, rule is. more firmly
grounded in reason or more universally recognized by carriers.
It is because of the greater density of traffic north of theOhio
Rive r in Central Freight Association Territory and in Eastern
Territory that rates in general are materially lower in those
territories than in Southern Territory. The defendants have
made yellow pine lumber an exception to this rule; while the
tonnage in general- of the defendants and lumber tonnage
in particular have grown greatly, the lumber rate. has not
been lowered but has been materially advanced. Moreover;
the testimony is that 'a decrease in the rates on traffic in general has been going on throughout the United States since the.
improvements in transportation have been put in operation;'
here, again, lumber has been taken from under, and deprived
of the benefits of, the general rule.
"11. As said in Marten v.. L. & N. R. R. Co., 9 1. C. C. R.
589, and shown by the proof in this case, 'lumber is an inexpensive freight and only a few other commodities furnish
to carriers so jarge a tonnage.' .. The lnber business is con-.
stant, yielding the carriers revenue all the year; no special
equipment 'is constructed or furnished for its.'carriage; it is
VOL. CCVI-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argupient for Appellants.

206 U. S.

loaded by the shipper and unloaded by the consignee, and
where open cars are furnished, the shipper is required at considerable expense to equip them so as to protect the load and
the train; there is small risk incident to its transportation and,
in case of accident, the 'damage is insignificant. For these
reasons lumber should be given rates which are relatively low.
"Our conclusion on the whole is that the advance, April 15,
1903, of. two cents in the Cairo rate (with a corresponding
in'crease in the rates to the other Ohio River crossings) was not
Warranted- under all the facts in evidence, and that the resultant increased rate is unreasonable and unjust. An order
will be issued in accordance with these views."
Mr. Ed. Baxter for appellants:
The majority of the Commission erred in holding that the
rates from Mississippi territory to the Ohio River are unreasonable. The phrase "just and reasonable in and of themselves"
was used by..this court in the case of E. T., Y. & G. Ry. Co. v.
I. C. C.,.181 U. S. 18, 19. And see Van Patten v. C., M. & St.
P. Ry. Co.,'81 Fed. Rep. 545; Kinnavey v. Terminal Assn.,
81 Fed. Rep. 802, and T. & P. Ry. v. Mudd, 202 U. S. 242.
The Commission erred in deciding that said so-called advance
of two cents per hundred pounds, made effective April 15,
1903, makes the through rates from Mississippi territory to the
Ohio River unreasonably high in and of themselves; because
there is no, question but that said. through rates were "adopted,
printed and kept p6sted" by the respective appellants as required by the act to regulate commerce.
Even if the question of the reasonableness in and of itself
of a rate on a single article of traffic is one of almost insuperable difficulty, that gives no authority to the Commission to
solve it by mere arbitrary action. C., N. 0. & T. P. Ry., v.
I. C. C., 162 U. S. 197.
The rates from points in Mississippi territory to the Ohio
River are reasonably low, because the average rate per ton
per mile yielded by said rates is lower than the majority of

ILLINOIS CENT. &c. R. R. v. INTER. CO.
206 U.S.

COMM. 451

Argument for Appelants.

other rates per ton per mile on lumber; and also because they
are lower than the rates on lumber betweerL many other points
for similar distances.' Also because the lumber interests in
Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana. have, prospered under
the rate adjustment and the percentage of increase has been
greater fi the price of lumber: than in the rates on lumber.
The increase made was justified-by the change in the condition of the-lumber market.
It was error of law to hold that the cost of permanent improvements and equipment-is improperly charged to operating
expenses. U.P. .R.Co. v.U. S.,99 U. S. 420, 421.
In charging the cost of permaneit improvements and
equipment to operating expenses, appellants adopted the
method which this court held to be the most
conservative
and beneficial to the comphny'and operates as a restraint
against injudicious dividends and the accumulation of a heavy
indebtedness.
The rate on lumber may be somewhat remunerative and
yet be unreasonably low, ,as said in Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
542.
As to, competing roads, that competition tends to.a reduction
of rates-sometimes, as the history of the countryjhas shown,
below that which affords any re.muneration to those who own
property..,
Therefore this court has never allowed the fact that the
longer, distance competitive rate* pays something more than
the cost of movement of the longer distance competitive
traffic (and is, therefore, to some extent, remunerative) to avail
as an argument that the higher rate for the shorter distance
",traffic is unreasonably high.
*Yellow pine lumber manufactured in Mississippi territory
may be moved by various competing lines to New York and
other North Atlantic cities, or it may be moved by various,
competing ' essels to Europe; or. it- may be moved, as in this
-case, by various competing roads to points on and north of
the Ohio River; and when moved to points on and north of

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

206 U. S.

the Ohio River it comes into competition with, white pine,
spruce and hemlock from Canada and the Northern States,
with fir from the Pacific coast, and with yellow pine from
Georgia territory and Arkansas territory.
It is manifest therefore, that rates on yellow pine from
Mississippi territory to points on and north of the Ohio River
must be made in strong competition with other carriers and with
other woods, In other words, there is competition of product
against product, and competition of carrier against carrier.
Neither' the Commission nor the court had jurisdiction to
determine the reasonableness of the proportions of a through
rate and it was error of law for the Commission and the court
to'assume jurisdiction to determine either that the proportions
of the originating roads are unreasonably large, or that the
proportions of the intermediate roads are unreasonably low.
11'Ann. Rep. I. C. C. 1897, 27.
It was.not until the act was amended June 29, 1906, that
the Commission was given the power by § 15 to prescribe "the
just and reasonable proportions of such joint rate to be received
by each carrier party thereto." 34 U. S. Stat. at Large, 584.
The articles of the Southeastern Freight Association and of
the Southeastern Mississippi Valley Association' do not violate
the anti-trust act, nor do they conflict with United States v.
Trans-MissouriFreight Assn., 166 U. S. 290, and United States
v. Joint Traffic Assn., 171 U. S. 505.
Associations were not formed for the purpose of "maintaining" rates. On the contrary, each.member distinctly
reserves to itself, at all times, the right to take separate and
independent action 'on each and every subject; and therefore
it may change its rates at any time, without being subject
to penalty, or even to censure.
Mr. L. A. Shaver, Mr. T. M. Miller and Mr. Marcellus
Green, with whom Mr. Garner Wynn Green was on the brief,
for appellee:
The materially !ower lumber rates in force prior to the

ILLINOIS CENT. &c. R. R. v. INTER. COM. COMM. 453
206 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

advance in rates having been maintained by the carriers for
a long period of time, must be presumed to have been reasonably
remunerative and the burden is, therefore, upon the carriers
to show sufficient grounds for the advance. Am. & Eng. Enc.
of Law, 2d ed., Vol. 17,133; Holmes v. So. Ry. Co., 8 I. C. C.
R. 568.
The claim that the advance was justified because the yellow
pine lumber business was exceptionally prosperous, is untenable. The test of the reasonableness of a rate is not the
amount of profit there is in the business of the shipper, but
whether the rate yields a reasonable compensation for the
service rendered: Smythe v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Tilt v.
So. Ry. Co. et al., 138 Fed. Rep., 754.
The fact that there had been an increase in the operating
expenses of the carriers did not justify the advance because
there was also a constant' increase not only in their gross but
also in their net earnings.
If additional revenue was needed to meet increased operating
expenses incurred in the handling and transporting of all
traffic, it should have been raised by an advance in rates on
traffic in general and the imposition of the burden on a comparatively few articles like lumber, was a discrimination against
those articles in favor of traffic in general.
.If, in such case, it is proper to select a few articles, -the selection shoult be made with due regard to the character of
the articles selected and the interests of the public. Lumber
being an article of general use or necessity should not have
been selected.
Where otherwise competing carriers by. a previous understanding or agreement make an advance in rates, the advance
so niade cannot be held to be the product of unrestrained
competition. Competition never advances rates. The natural,
direct and immediate effect of competition is to lower rates.
United States Y. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 577.
Where the Commission has duly investigated the facts ,and
the court below has sustained, the finding of the Commission

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

' '
206 U. S.

on such investigation, this court will decline to undertake an
original investigation of the facts on its own account: and
will not set aside the findings of the Commission except in a
clear case of error. C., N. 0. & T. P. Ry. Co. v. I. C. C., 162
U. S. 194; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Behlmer, 175 U. S. 675; E. T.,
Va. & Ga. Ry. Co. v. I. C. C., 181 U. S. 27.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

Counsel for appellants in his oral argument made the
declaration that it would not be necessary for this court to
open the pages of testimony contained in the record, and says
in his supplemental brief:
"I do not insist that this court shall read the voluminous
testimony contained in these records, but I do most respectfully ask it to lay, down the rules or principles of transportation law which are fairly involved in the just determination
of these cases, and to remand them to the Commission to be
re-examined upon the testimony in conformity with the
principles of transportation law to be announced by this court."
To what, then, -shall we,resort? How shall we determine
.what "principles of transportation law" were involved? How
'determine whether they were recogniied and applied, or denied and rejected by the Commission, and, necessarily, by the
Circuit Court? An examination of the testimony by concession
of counsel is out of the question. And the findings of the
Commission, are made by law prima facie true. This court
has ascribed to them the strength due to the judgments of a
tribunal appointed by law and informed by experience. Lo0Uisville & Nashville Railroad Co. v. lBehlmer, 175 TI. S. 648;
East Tenn. &c. Railroad Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
181 U. S. 1, 27. And in any special case of coifflicting evidence
a probative force must'be attributed to the findings of the
Commission, which, in addition to "knowledge of conditions,
of environment and of transportation relations," has had the
witnesses before it and has been able to judge, of them and

ILLINOIS CENT. &c. R. R. v. INTER. COM. COMM. 455
.206 U. S.

-

Opihion of

the Court.

their manner of, tstifying. In the case at bar these considerations are reinforced by a concurrent judgment of the
Circuit Court.
The question is one of the reasonableness of a rate, and
.such a question was said to be one of fact in Texas & Pacific
Ry. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. .197; C. N.
0. & T. P. Ry. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S.
184. In these cases, however, it was declared that the conclusions of. the Commission are subject to review if it-excluded
"-facts and circumstances that ought ' to have been considered."
Upon this declaration appellants rely, .and justify their invocation that this court express and enforce the principles
of transportation which, they contend, the Commission disregarded; and appellants venture the observation that unless
this be done "there ,will be no settled principles of law for the
guidance of either' the Commission or of the courts," and that
"the interstate railroad :companies will be the only pergops
in this country who will not be able to obtain the opinion
of the courts uPon questions of law which vitally affect their
interest." We think the apprehension is groundless and is
demonstrated to 'be groundless by the cases cited.. In all of
legal propositions were reViewed as elements in the
Sthem

'inquiry .of the Keasonableness of a rate. Those cases, however,
are-in marked contrast to the pending case. It will be observed that in them the instances were very simple. There
was a salient circunstance in each of them about which there
was no uncertainty. In other, words, it was unconfused by
dispute and was not put to question' by a conflict of testimony.
. A definite legal proposition unmixed with fact'was presented.
and the only act of judgment exercised by, the Commission
was to reject it.
I Cincinnati, New Orleans & -Texas Pacific Railway v.
'Interstate.Commerce Commission, passing on the effect of a
shipment on, a through bill of lading to give jurisdiction to
:he CommiSsion (in which the Commission was sustained),
the questions presented were -the power in the Commission

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

to fix a maximum rate, and whether competitive conditions
could be considered by a railroad in fixing a greater charge
for a shorter than a longer distance on its own line. It was
decided that the power to pass on the reasonableness of an
existing rate did not imply the power to prescribe a rate.
On the conditions affecting competition, it was not found
necessary to pass, but the following passage is worth the
quoting as bearing on the contention of appellants:
"It has been forcibly argued that, in the present case, the
Commission did not give due weight to the'facts that tended
to show that the circumstances and conditions were so dissimilar as to justify the rates charged. But the question was
one of fact, peculiarly within the province of the Commission,
whose conclusions have been accepted .and 'approved by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and we find -nothing in the record
to-make it our duty to draw a different conclusion."
In Texas & Pacific Railway v. Interstate Commerce Commission ocean competition as constituting a dissimilar coidition and as justifying a difference in rates between import
and domestic traffic was the circumstance considered. The
Interstate Commerce Commission had ruled against such
competition as a factor and, condemned .rates made in view
of it to be undue and unjust. The court observed:
"But we understand the view .of the Commission to have
been that it was not competent for the Commission to consider
such facts-that it was shut up by the terms of the act of
Congress, to consider only-such 'circumstances and conditions'
as pertained to the articles of traffic after they had reached
and been delivered at a port of the United States or Canada."
And further:
"We have, therefore,, to deal only with a question of law,'
and that. is,: what is the true construction, in respect. to the
matters involved in the, present controversy, of the act to'
regulate commerce? ' If the construction put upoA, the act by,
the Commission was right, then the order was lawful; otherwise
it was not."

ILLINOIS CENT. &c. R. R. v. INTER. COM. COMM. 457
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The ruling of the Commission was reversed.
In Interstate Commerce Commission v. Alabama Midland
Railway, 168 U. S. 144, there was passed upon a decision of
the Commission that the competition of river lines of transportation was not a factor to be considered when determining
whether property transported. over the same line is carried
under "substantially similar circumstances and conditions,"
as that phrase is found in the fourth section of the Interstate
Commerce Act. The decision was declared to be an erroneous
construction of the act.
In Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co. v. Behlmer (passing
by subordinate questions) the dominant element was the
construqtion of the fourth section of the Interstate Commerce
Act.' The Commission and the Circuit Court of Appeals, it
was said, "mistakenly considered as a matter of law that competition, however material, arising from carriers who were
subject to the act to. regulate commerce could not be taken
into consideration; likewise that competition, however substantial, not originating at the initial point of the traffic, was
equally as a matter of law excluded from view."
In all these cases, therefore, there was a single, distinct and
dominant -proposition of law which the Commission had rejected, and the exact influence of which, in its decisions, could
be estimated. Indeed, they were mere constructions of the
statute, the delegation of.the Commission's duties and power.
Let us now see what the propositions are which appellants
propose for our adoption. They are presented as presumptions
of law, which dispense with evidence until rebutted or countervail evidence by their. probative force. (1) .That the rate
published by a carrier is reasonably low. (2) A rate upon a
commodity, made by the competition of carriers, is reasonably
low, and the burden is on him who assails it. (3) A rate upon
a commodity as low, or lower, than the majority of rates
charged by other carriers for the transportation of the 'same
grade of commodities for similar distances in the same or other
territory, is reasonably low, and the burden is upon him who

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

insists that it is -unreasonably high.' (4) A Iate charged by a

carrier which has the "strongest :possible motive" to develop
and increase a traffic in a particular commodity, and has
maintained such rate. for a long series of years," so as to have
induced a large *and continuous increase of business in that
commodity and of the capital invested, is reasonably low.
(5)Rates being so adjusted upon a commodity, so as to enable
it to move with profit to the shipper, whatever the conditions
of the market, reducing the rates as the market declines, only
increasing them as the market improves,' a particular increase
is reasonable, if it be shown that the -percentage of increase
has been greater in the price of the .commodity than in the.,
rates on it. (6) Rates reduced to meet a market depression
and kept in effect during the depression, and increased when
the depression ceases which does 'not cause the increased rates
to'exceed the rates' that were maintained by the carrier,. prior
to the depression, are .reasonable. (7), (8) Increase in rates.
upon all commodities impartially to meet largely increased
expendit'res on account of an abnormal increase in the volume
of traffic is reasonable,. "provided the gross earnings 'of tle
carrier yield less than the normal proportion of net earnings."
Or priovided the percentage of increase has been greater in
the operating. expenses of the carrier than in t1 e rates*upon
the commodity. (9), (10) Upon the supposition that 'certain
improvements have .been made necessary by "an abnormal
increase ofrtraffic," they should be taken into account in determining, the reasorableness of an increase. of rates upon a'
commodity, whether as a matter of bookkeeping'the. expenditures should be charged to capital account or to the operating
expenses; and without regard to. the fact whether such expenditures. have been paid out of the carrier's earnings or have
been provided for by the issuance of bonds. (11) A rate on a
commodity is profitable if it exceeds 'the cost of its-movement;
and, 'yet, the rate.- may be unreasonably low,., if it does nbt
:contribute its 'fair share t6 operating expenses, taxes and
fixed charges.'

ILLINOIS CENT. &c. R. R. v. INTER. COM. COMM. 459
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

If these propositions should be granted as axioms of transportation there is the difficulty,. as we have already pointed
out, of determining to what extent-that is, whether to
prejudicial extent, if at all-they were disregarded by the
Commission and by the Circuit Court.' The Circuit Court
affirmed the order of the Commission, and it is 'an instant
assumption that the court considered all the elements in the
testimony and- inferences from it.- And the propositions of
appellant are inferences of mixed law and fact, hence disputable-may be overcome or counterpoised, and, therefore,
the court in reaching its ultimate judgment may have given
them all the weight to which they were entitled. .
It is almost impossible to discuss the contentions of appellants without bringing forward the elemental. A. presumption is the expression of a process of reasoning, and most,
if not all, therules of indirect evidence may be expressed as
such.. We cannot go far in the investigation of any controversy
without finding -urselves compelled to infer one fact from
another; but we would not therefore be justified in declaring,
such inferences legal axioms. It is to this that appellants
invite us and seek .to erect .disputable inferences from conduct
that may :have many explanations into intendments of law.,
In this connection Texas Pacific Railway v. Interstate Commerce. Commission, supra, is an instructive case. In that case,
wehave seen, it was decided that whether the rate Was reasonable or unreasonable, Was a question, whatever its theoretical
nature, for the tribunal that. decides. upon matters of fact.
Among other cases cited to sustain that position was Denaby
Main Colliery Company v. Manchester &c, Railway Company,
3 Railway and Canal Traffic Cases, 426. In that case it was
declared that reasonableness of a rate was a question of fact
and not reviewable by an appellate court, unless circumstances
which ought to have been considered. were not considered,
and that a decision must be arrived at fairly looking'at all the
circumstances that are proper to be looked at. The appellant
in'the case contended: against the consideration by the rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

way commissioners of competition between two places, and
the Court" of Appeals, replying, said:
"If the appellants can make out that, in point of law, that,

is a consideration, which cannot be permitted to have any
ihfluence. at all, that those circumstances must be rigidly excluded from consideration, and that they are not circumstances
legitimately to be considered, no doubt they establish that
the court beldw has erred in point of law. But it is necessary
for them 'to go as far as that in order to make any way with
this :appeal, 'because once admit that to' any extent, for any
purpose, the question of compftition can be allowed to enter
in, whether the eburt has given . too much weight to it or too
little, becomes a question of fact and not of law, The point
is'undoubtedly a very important one."
And it may be well to say here as a suggestive principle'
throughout that, it was pointed out, such conclusions of fact
were "to be 'arrived at, looking at the matter broadly and
applying common sense to the facts .that are proved." The.
remarks '6f Willes, J., in Phipps v. Lodond &. North-Western
Railway, 2.Q. B. D. 1892, pp. 229, 236, when the case was before the Railway Commissioners, were in effect approved. This
court: also "quoted them. Willes, J., said, speaking of the
,questions of' undue'or unreasonable preference or advantage
to or in favor of Any particular person under section 2 of the
Railway and Canal Traffic Acts, that they were eminently'
practical, '7and if this court once attempts' the hopeless task
of dealing with questions of this kind with any approach to
mathematical accuracy, and tries to introduce a precision
which is unattainable in commercial. and practical matters,
it would do infinite mischief and no good."''
It is conceded, as we have said, that the presumptions
contended for by appellants are. mixed of law and fact, except,
may be, thiose which we shhll presently consider. If either
element is dominant in such presumptions, it must 'be that
Qf facL. In other words, the fact must be ascertained before
the law draws its inference. This is especially pertinent to

ILLINOIS CENT. &c. R. R. v. INTER. COM. COMM. 461
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the propositions urged by appellants. Let us illustrate. Take,
for example, the second proposition that "a rate upon a
commodity made by competition of carriers is reasonably low,
and the burden is on him who assails it." But suppose competition is not established or is disproved, what becomes
of the inference and the onus of proof dependent upon it?
The question marks the condition that appellants encounter
in the findings of the Commission. The findings of the Commission in effect negative the facts upon which the propositions
depend. In still greater degree there is illustration in the first
-proposition. That proposition is an inference from an inference, as we shall presently point out. The reasonableness
of the rate is inferred from competition, and -competition is
inferred from -the publication of the rate.
This comment,, it may be said, is not applicable to the ninth
and tenth propositions of appellants, as they present propositions of law which were not only disregarded by the Commission,
but the antithesis of them was asserted in the eighth finding.
This contention must be specifically considered. The. Commission finds that the net and gross earnings of the appellant
have grown from year to. year, and also that what they have
reported as operatinig expenses have also grown. But in these
operating expenses there were included "expenditures for
real .estate, right of.way, tunnels, bridges, and other strictly
permanent improvements, and also for equipment, such as
locomotives and cars." The Commission expressed the opinion
that sich expenditures should not be charged Ito a single year,
but "should be, so far as practicable and so far as rates exacted
from the public are concerned,, 'projected proportionately
over the future.' " And it was said: "If these large amounts
are deducted from the annual operating expenses reported
by the defendants (appellants), it will be found that the percentage 'of operating expenses to earnings has in some extent
diminished and in -others increased to no material extent."
The exact effect of the difference of view between appellants
and the Commission as to operating expenses there is no test,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

but it cannot be said, even if the Commission. was wrong as
to such .expenses, that. error in its ultimate conclusion is
demonstrated or that the correctness of the conclusion is made
so doubtful as to justify a reversal. The findings show that
the old rates were profitable and that dividends were declared
even when permanent improvements and equipment were
charged to operating expenses. But may they be so charged?
Appellants contend that the answer should be so obviously
in the affirmative that it should be made an axiom in transportation. On principle it would seem as if the answer should
otherwise. It would seem as if expenditures for additions'
be
to construction and equipment, as expenditures for
original
construction and equipment, should be reimbursed by all of
the traffic they accommodate during the period of their duration, and that improvements that will last many years
should not be charged wholly against the revenue of a single
year. But it is insisted that Union. Pacific Railway Co. v.
United States, 99 U. S. 402, establishes. the contrary. That
case was -not' concerned with rates of transportation or the
rule which should aetermine them against shippers. It was
concerned with the construction of the words "net earnings"
in an act of Congress, 'five per cent of which, earnings were
provided to be applied annually to a loan by the Government
to the railroad. Considering the provision of the act and
its purpose, it was concluded "that the true interest of the,
Government" was' "the same as that of stockholders, and
would 'be subserved by encouraging a liberal application of
the earnings to the improvement of the works.". "It is better,"
it was said, "for the ultimate security of the Government
in reference to the payment of its loan, as well as for the service
which, it', may require in the transportation of its property
and mails, that-a hundred dollars should be spent in improving
the works, than that it should receive five dollars towards
net indebtedearnings,
the payment of its subsidy. If the five per centa ofnew
to
demandable fr6m the company, amounted
ness, not due before, 'like a rent accruing: upon a lease, a more

ILLINOIS CENT. &c. R. R. v. INTER. COM. COMM. 463
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rigid rule might be insisted on. But it is not so; the amount
of the indebtedness is fixed and unchangeable. The amount
Iof the five per cent and its receipt at
one time or another is
simply a question of earlier or later payment of a debt already
fixed in amount. If the employment of any earnings of the
road in making improvements lessens the amount of net
earnings, the Government loses 'nothing thereby. The only
result is, that a less amount is presently paid on its debt,
while the general security for the whole debt is largely increased." The interest of the Government in the improvement of the road was even greater than that of a stockholder.
This was manifest from its munificent gift of lands, in addition
to its generous loan of credit. As benefactor of the road and
as creditor of it, as a Government concerned with the development of the country, as a money lender concerned with the
extent of security, "the true interest" of the United States
might, be that revenue should be applied to improvements.
Payment of the debt was: only postponed, not denied, and this
and the other considerations, might well determine the construction of words in the, statute which were capable of different meanings. 'But such is not the relation or concern of
a shipper of lumber. His right is immediate. He may demand
a service. He must- pay a toll, but a toll measured by the
reasonable value of the service. The elements of that value
may be many and complex, not always determinable, as we have
seen, with mathematical accuracy, but, we think, it is clear,
that instrumentalities which are to'be used for years should not
be paid for by the revenues of a day or year; and this is the
principle of returns upon capital which exists in durable shape.
The first proposition submitted by appellants may also be
said, to be so far absolute and independent of evidence as to
be considered as a presumption of law simply. This is contended on the authority of Van Paten v. Chicago, Milwaukee &
St. Paul Railway Co., 81 Fed. Rep. 545. It is difficult to
analyze the case briefly. It was an action of damages against
the railroad for charging unjust and unreasonable rates under

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

the assumption that sections 8 and 9 of the Interstate Commerce Act gave such an action, though the railroad had charged
according to the schedule of rates filed with the Interstate
Commerce Vommission. The answer of the railroad set up
the schedule and. that rates had been charged shippers in
accordance with it. The' court. overruled a demurrer to the
answer and adjudged the defense good. The court discussed
the question h an elaborate opinion, and, led by the difficulties
of applying all of the provisions of the act, which were enacted,
the court observed, to correct "the Mode in which carriers
imposed their charges," sought in the act itself a standard.
of reasonableness.
The court, in its opinion, referred to the evils which had
existed-rebates from published schedules, preferences and
discriminations against shippers-and the purpose, and hope

of the act to correct them through the requirement of an
imperative statutory standard, and by that, and other requirements, to establish free competition between railroads and,
as a result of competition, reasonable rates. But it was not
said or. intended tb be said that competition followed as a
presumption of law in any given case. The court did not intend
to assert a rule deduced from the conduct of railroads-conduct so far constant that the law would base a presumption
upon it and forever fix it as one of its intendments. Indeed
the court meant to do no more than to deny a right of action
for unreabnableness in the rates as filed. And this court,
in Texas.& Pacific Railway Co. v. Abilene, Cotton Oil Co., 204
U. S. 426, has decided that the redress of a shipper for such
unreasonableness must. be' through the Interstate Commerce
Commission. It is certain that a presumption that was:sufficient to defeat an action in the Circuit Court could not be urged
to defeat an inquiry by the Commission. Of coursc, f a c omshould be filed before the Commission and no proof
adduced to support it, we cannot doubt but that the 6omplainf
would be dismissed: but this because, of the principle that
the party who asserts the affirmative ijany controversy ought

-plaint

ILLINOIS CENT. &c. R. R. v. INTER. COM. COMM. 465
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to prove the assertion, and that he who denies may rest on
his denial until, at least, the probable truth of the matter
asserted has been established. "The reason is obvious: to all
propositions, which are neither the subject of intuitive or
sensitive knowledge, nor probabilized by experience, the mind
suspends its assent until proof of them is adduced." Best on
Presumptions, sec. 32.
There are other contentions of appellants which we think are
untenable. One only needs comment. It is said that it was
error to hold the advance unreasonable and unjust because the
charges made on lumber to Cairo and other -points on the Ohio
River "are mere divisions of through rates, the justness of which
neither the Interstate Commerce Commission nor the Circuit
Court has any jurisdiction to determine." Indeed, it is said, to
do so is an exercise of a legislative function. We think the contention-is in effect answered by Cincinnati,New Orleans & Texas
Pacific Railway v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S.
184. If the contention is intended to be as extensive as its
words seemingly make it, it would withdraw from the supervision of the Interstate Commerce Commission and from the
courts every shipment over two or more railroads. There
necessarily must be some apportionment of the rates between.
such roads, and whether the advance should be made in the
rates over one road or the other, or in the rates over all, can
make no difference. In other words, it is competent for the
Commission or the courts to consider the through rate, however
composed. It must not be overlooked that the Commission
and the Circuit Court found that the advance in the case at bar
was made by agreement between the roads, and was not the
individual action of each, induced by competition. It is true
the contraiy fact is asserted. It is asserted, that such action
was the result of competition, and, that the "legal value"
to which competition was entitled was not given it. The argument to support the contention has not convinced us. The
inquiry was essentially one of fact, and the attempt to make
competition an inference of law and dominating against the
VOL. COVI-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

findings of the Commission and their afirmance by the Circuit
Court we have already rejected.
But little more discussion is necessary. The concession of
counsel with which we have commenced this opinion is a frank
recognition of the effect which this court has given to the
decisions of the Interstate Commerce Commission on questions
of fact. And we have said very recently: "The-statute gives
prima tacie effect to the findings of the Commission, and when
those findings are concurred in by the Circuit Court, we think
they should not be interfered with, unless the record establishes that clear and unmistakable error has been committed."
Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton R. R. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, ante, page 142.
It is true, appellants assert, that clear and unmistakable
error has been committed, but upon ground untenable as we
have seen. And the present case above all others calls for
the application of the rule. The question submitted to the
Commission, as we have said, with tiresome repetition perhaps, was one which turned on matters of fact. In that question, of course, there were elements of law, but we cannot see
that any one of these or any circumstances probative of the
conclusion was overlooked or disregarded. The testimony
was voluminous. It is not denied that it was conflicting and,
by concession of counsel, it included a large amount of testimony taken on behalf of appellants in support of the propositions contended for by them. Whether the Commission gave too
much weight to some parts of it and too little weight to other
parts of it is a question of fact and not of law. It seems from
the findings, report and conclusions of the Commission that it
considered every circumstance pertinent to the problem before it.
Further testimony was taken by the Circuit Court and its
judgment confirmed that of the Commission and approved
Decree affirmed.
its order.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY took no part in the decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER dissents.

