SECURITY WAREHOUSING CO. v. HAND.
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

taxation by the law of the State when the owner has chosen
to give them a situs there as in this case.
Without further extending these views,. I am constrained
to dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in this
case.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

concurs in this dissent.

SECURITY WAREHOUSING COMPANY v. HAND.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 229. Argued March 7,-8, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.
The general law of pledge requires possession and it cannot exist without it,
and this is the law in Wisconsin.
Where there is no delivery or-change of possession receipts issued by a warehouse company are not entitled to the status of negotiable instruments,
the transfer of. which, operates as a delivery of the property mentioned
.therein. Union Trust Co. v. Wi4wn, 198 U. S. 530, distinguished.
Although the assignee or trustee in bankruptcy stands in the shoes of the.bankrupt, and property in his hands unless otherwise provided in the bank-.
rupt act is subject to all the equities impressed upon it in the hands of the
bankrupt, on the facts in this case and the law of the State there was no
valid pledge of, and no equitable lien on the merchandise in favor of the
holders of warehouse receipts, which take precedence of the title of the
trustee.

THE above-named appellants have appealed from a judgment
of the.Circuit Court of Appeals of the Seventh Circuit, affirming
a decree of the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Wisconsin dismissing certain petitions of the
appellants for want of equity. 143 Fed. Rep. 32.
Certain creditors filed a petition in bankruptcy October 5,
1903, against the Racine Knitting Company, a company en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906. .
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

gaged in manufacturing hose and other knit goods, with
factories at Racine and Stevens Point, Wisconsin. The company was, on. the twenty-sixth of October, 1903, duly adjudged
a bankrupt, and the appellees were appointed receivers and were
later elected trustees. The appellees asserted the right to
certain merchandise covered by receipts issued by the appellants, the security company, which company thereupon
filed in the bankruptcy court an intervening petition asserting
its exclusive possession and control of the merchandise in
question and the issuing of its receipts therefor to the knitting
company, and their negotiation by it prior to its baikruptcY,
-and that those receipts were given to the other appellants
in good faith in due course of business as security for loans.
The intervening petitioner alleged that the appellees were
claiming title to the merchandise and were obstructing the
petitioner in, its possession, 'and the prayer was- for an order
that the appellees be. restrained from interfering with the
petitioner in its custody and contrQl of the property. The:
other appellants then intervened and also set up the same
facts, and prayed that the appellees might be restrained frominterfering with the security company in delivering the merchandise to the petitioners, and from asserting any right or
title to the property as against them. Issues were joined and
the matters were referred, to the referee, who reported his
findings of fact. From these findings it appeared that the
Security Warehousing Company was a corporation of tlhle -State
of New York, duly licensed to do business in the State of
Wisconsin, and that it was .engaged in the business' of "field
warehousing," so called; that it owned no warehouse of its
own and occupied no public warehouse at any place. The
warehousing company leased certain premises from, the knitting company in Racine, in the Stat6 of Wisconsin, and also
cpertain premises at a place called Stevens Point, in the same
State. These two places were occupied by the knitting company with their goods to be sold, and the goods were placed
on the- premises really occupied by the knitting company,

SECURITY WAREHOUSING CO. v. HAND.
206 U.S.

Argument for Appelants.

although in form leased by it to the warehousing company,
and the so-called warehouse receipts were given to the knitting
company by the varehousing company, acknowledging, the
receipt of the property at such places. There was no change
of possession in fact, and scarcely any in form. These receipts
were. in turn pledged by the knitting company to various
banks, and moneys Obtained pon the security-of such receipts
from them. The general character of business of.this form is
stated in Uion Trust Company v. Wilson,, 198 U. S. 530, but
the particular facts in this-case, given in detail as findings by
the referee and .adopted by the District Court and Circuit
Court of Appeals, may be fond in 143. Fed. Rep. 32, supra.
Reference is made to that report for the findings of the referee.
The report shows a radically different state of facts from the
Wilson case.
Mr. Henry S. Robbins, for appellants, submitted:
This case is not distinguishable' from the case of Union
Trust Co. v. Wilson, 198 U., S. 530.
The fact that the iboards constituting the enclosure were
four to six-inches apart instead of being closely fitted, as in
the Wilson case, 198 U. S. 530, seems too trivial to require
discussion. This was more favorable to publicity than a
tightly .fitted enclosure, as. it enabled one seeing, the'enclosure
,from the outside to-see also'the signs that were within. Anyone making the most superficial inspection could see the enclosure, and the locked door, and were without being put upon
notice of the warehousing company's control.
Nor. does a substantial difference between the two cases.
arise out of the fact that in the case at bar the custodians appointed by the, warehousing company to watch the "property
and release it upon the return of the receipts, were also em.ploy6s of the dealer. Sumnerv.. Hamlet, 12 Pick. 76.
Nor- does any.- material :difference between this and the
.

Wilson case arise out of the.fact found in the case at bar by
the master that on three' or four occasions' mamfested goods
S

VOL. CCVI-27

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellants.

206 U. S.

were taken out of the enclosures by the custodian" .and other
goods were substituted therefor. The quantities thus taken
out were trifling. But whatever be the lawv as to chattel mortgages, substitutions--especially such trifling ones-do not
invalidate a pledge. Blydenstein v. N. Y. Se~urity Co., 67
*Fed. Rep. 469; 15 C. C. A 14; Sumner v. Hamlet, 12 Pick. 76;
Clark v., Iselin, 21 Wall. 360; Colebrooke on Collateral Securities, 2d ed. ยง 15; Sawyer v. Turpin, 91 U. S. 114; Cook v.
'Tullis, 18 Wall. 332.
Nor is the Wilson case inapplicable to the case at bar because
the former arose in Illinois and the latter in Wisconsin.
The law of Illinois abhors secret liens as much as does that
of Wisconsin, and this was pressed upon the attention of this
court in the Wilson case. See Funk v. Staats, 24 Illinois, 632;
Harkness v. Russell, 118 U. S. 663.,
In, both States, as well as generally, a -change of possession
is essential to the validity of a pledge or warehouse receipt.
. The appellant creditors acquired at least equitable liens,
which were superior to the title of the trustees in bankruptcy.
If there was not a-sufficient change of possession to support
a pledge or warehouse receipt, still the delivery by the knitting
company of these receipts as security for loans created equitable
liens. Union Trust Company v. Trumbull, 137 Illinois, 146.
The receipt holders here were unacquainted with the physical
nature of the storage or the methods of the Security Warehousing Company. Equitable liens have been upheld by this
court in Hauselt v. Harrison, 105 U. S. 401; Walker v. Brown,
165 U. S. 654. Equitable: liens are recognized in Wisconsin.
McDonald v. Daskam, 116 Fed. Rep. 276; S. C. 53 C. C.. A.
554.
An equitable'lien is superior to the title of the trustee in
bankruptcy--so held under the act of 1841. Fletcher v. Morey,
2 Story, 555; S. C. Fed. Cas., 4,864; Winsor v. McLellan, 2
Story, 492; S. C. Fed. Cas., 17,887. And under the act of 1867.
Hauselt v. Harrison, 105 U. S. 401; Yeatman v. Savings Inst.,
95 U. S. 764; Stewart v. Platt, 101 U: S. 731.

SECURITY WAREHOUSING CO. v. HAND.
206 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

The present bankrupt act did not intend to change this
rule.
Reading clauses (a) and (d) of ยง 67 together, as they should.
be, the -proper construction is that liens "accepted in good
faith," and which are of a nature to be recorded, such as chattel
mortgages, are not good against the estate unless recorded;
but that liens accepted in good faith, but not of a nature to be
recorded, shall be unaffected by the bankrupt act, although
not superior to writs of attachment and execution.
There is a clear distinction between a fraudulent conveyance
-to avoid which both parties must have participated in the
fraudulent intent--and an equitable lien in which, as at bar,
the creditor is not a participant in any legal or actual wrong
doing. See York Mfg. Co. v. Cassell, 201 U. S. 344; Thompson v.
Fairbanks, 196 U. S. 516-520; Hewit v. Berlin Works, 194
U. S. 296; In re Economical Printing Co., 110 Fed. Rep. 514;
S. C. 49 C. C. A. 133.
John B. Simmons for appellees:
The receipts issued by the Security Warehousing Company

-Mr.

were not warehouse receipts within the legal or commercial

signification of the term, and their endorsement in blank and
delivery as collateral in no way affected the title to the goods
of the bankrupt.
In controversies of this sort, involving the validity of transfers of pioperty by warehouse receipts, chattel mortgage,
and the like, the law of the State where the property is situated
must govern. In re St. Paul & Kansas City Grain Co. (Minn.),
94 N. W. Rep. 218; Hallgartenvi Oldham, 135 Massachusetts,
1; Eth'ridgev. Sperry, 139 U. S. 276, 277; Bamberger v. Schoolfield, 160 U. S. 149; Hart/ord Is. Co. v. C., M. ' ,St, Paul
Ry. Co., 175 U. S. 91.
The facts shown by the record do not establish the existence
of valid liens by way of pledge. Union Trust Co. y. Wilson,
198 U. S. 530, distinguished.
In respect to a pledge, as distinguished from a mortgage

420 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

of personal property, delivery of possession is not a consequence, but the very essence of the contract. Lee v. Bradlee,
8 Martin (0.S.), La. 20.
To comply with the law, the possession, as ina case of pledge,
must be exclusive. Not only must possession be taken, but
that possession must be exclusive of the vendor, and concurrent possession will not do. McKibbon v. Martin, 3 Am.
R. 588, 593. See Hale v. Sweet, 40 N. Y. 97, where the mortgagee of a vessel employed a man to take charge of and run
her, but earances were made in the name of the mortgagor
who also collected the freight.
A similar case of an attempted pledge, is Wickham v. Levistone, 11 La. Ann. 702. And supporting the same proposition
are: Jones on Chattel Mortgages, ยง 185; Grant v. Lewis, 14
Wisconsin, 487; Orsen v. Sherman, 27 Wisconsin, 501; Schneider
v. Kraby, 97 Wisconsin, 519; Pierce v. Kelley (Ore.), 34 Pac.
Rep. 963; Hale v. Sweet, 40 N. Y. 97; Steele v. Benham, 84
N. Y. 634.
after making the foregoing statement;
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM,

A careful reading of the findings of the referee and of' the
evidence upon which they were based satisfies. us that they
'ought to be approved. The findings show that the receipts
of the warehousing company were not entitled to the status
of negotiable instruments, the transfer of which operates as
a delivery of the property mentioned in them. Upon that
question the case is sufficiently stated in the opinion of the
court below, wherein it was said that the "receipts themselves
would put the holders on notice of the facts."
If the receipts. were-not negotiable instruments, it is icontended that the transactions showed a valid. pledge, of the.
property to some of the appellants, and hence they are entitled
to its possession until they are paid the debts due them from
the bankrupt. Whether there was a sufficient change of

SECURITY WAREHOUSING C.O. v. HAND.
206 U. S.

421

Opinion of the Court.

possession of the thing pledged to render the same valid under
the law of Wisconsin, we think was correctly answered ine'the
negative by the courts below. Geilfuss v. Corrigan, 95 Wisconsin, 651, 665, 669. The general law of pledge requires
possession, and it cannot exist without . it. Casey v. Caiaroc,
96 U. S. 467. There was scarcely a semblance of an attempt
at such change of possession from the hands of the knitting
company to the hands of the warehousing company. Actual
possession of the property in question .was exercised by and
existed with the knitting company substantially the same
after the issuing of the receipts as before. It is a trifling with
words to call the various transactions ,between the knitting
.company and the warehousing company a transfer of possession from the former to the-latter. There was really no delivery, and no change of possession, continuous or otherwise.
The alleged change was a mere pretense, a sham. Upon the
subject of change of possession the :opinion of the Circuit
Court of 'Appeals contains the following statement of fact:
"In the present case the main office of the security company
was in New York; the nearest district office was in Chicago;
from there the receipts were issued; and in Wisconsin the
security company had no office. and no warehouses, unless
the enclosures within :the buildings of the knitting company
at Racine and Stevens Point be counted such. The receipts
themselves would put the holders thereof on notice of these
facts. And at Racine and Stevens Point the security company
gave no evidences to the public of its presence. No signs were
displayed to the passer-by. No business was sought from the
public. The only property within the enclosures was the
knitting company's. The knitting - company did not want,
storage room, but collaterals, which the security company
agreed to furnish for a commission upon the amount thereof
plus all expenses.. The security company's only agents on
the scene were the agents of the knitting company, who cared
for and shipped out its goods. That this was the only business
contemplated is -disclosed by the agreement' that the knitting

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

company should be restored to full possession of the premises
at any time it returned the outstanding receipts. This, in our
judgment, was not warehousing within the law of Wisconsin."
Also: "So far from the security company's maintaining an
open, exclusive, unequivocal possession during the two years
this arrangement was carried on, it seems to us that the security company might as well have been eliminated, and the
knitting company have employed its own stockkeepers and
shipping clerks as custodians for intending lenders, directly,
instead of indirectly through the security company. In that
view this becomes one of the cases 'in which the exclusive
power of the so-called bailee, Union Trust Co. v. Wilson, 198
U. S. 530, 537, tapers down to nothingness. Drury v. Moors,
171 Massachusetts, 252; Bank v. Jagode, 186 Pa. St. 556!"
The actual transactions in the case at bar differ radically
from the facts as stated in Union Trust Company v. Wilson,
supra. The court there held that ther6 was sufficient proof
to show a change of possession and that the transaction was
"valid within the law of the State of Illinois. Assuming the
law of, Wisconsin to be the same on the subject of possession
by the pledgee of the property pledged, the facts in this case
are so different from the Wilson- case as to prevent that case
from forming a foundation for holding there was a sufficient
change of possession here to make the pledge a valid one.
We are satisfied with the decision of the courts below upon
the merits.
There is,. however, an important matter which has been
raised by the appell, nts aside from the merits. That is,
whether a trustee in bankruptcy can question the validity
of these receipts, or the sufficiency of the alleged transfer of
the property belonging to the bankrupt knitting company,
to constitute a pledge of such property. The right is denied
by the appellants, and it is contended that the transfers were
valid between the parties; that the trustee in bankruptcy takes
only' the title and right of the bankrupt, and therefore he
cannot assert a right not possessed by the knitting company.

SECURITY WAREHOUSING CO. v. HAND.
206 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is no new doctrine that the assignee or trustee in bankruptcy stands in the shoes of the bankrupt, and that the property in his hands, unless otherwise provided in the bankrupt
act, is subject to all of the equities impressed upon it in the
hands of the bankrupt. This has been the rule under former
acts and is now the rule. Hewit.v. Berlin Machine Works,
194 U. S. 296; Thompson v. Fairbanks, 196 U. S. 516, 526;
Humphrey v. Tatman, 198 U. S. 91; York Manufacturing
Company v. Cassell, 201 U. S. 344, 352.
In the Hewit case there was a sale of property to the bankrupt
upon condition that the title should not pass until the property
was paid for. Such a conditional sale was good in New York
State, where the contract was made, and it was held good as
against the trustee in bankruptcy, because it was good against
the bankrupt. It was further held that the property was not,
under the facts and the law of New York, such as might have
been levied upon and sold under judicial process against the
bankrupt, nor could she have transferred it, within the meaning of section 70 of the bankrupt act. It was a clear case for
the application of the doctrine that the trustee stands in the
shoes of the bankrupt, and there was nothing. in the act which
made any inconsistent provision.
In 'Thompson v. Fairbanks the question arose as to the
validity of a chattel mortgage (which had been, duly filed).
upon after-acquired property as against the trustee in bankruptcy of the mortgagor. The mortgagee took possession of
the mortgaged property before the filing of the petition in
bankruptcy, and the question raised was whether there was a
violation of any provision of the bankruptcy act. 'It was held
that the validity of such a mortgage was .a local and not a
Federal question, and that in such case this court would follow
the decisions of the state court; and, as in Vermont such a
mortgage was good, and the taking possession of the property
related back to the date of the mortgage, even as against an
assignee in insolvency, it was good as against the trustee in
bankruptcy. It was said: "Under the present bankrupt act,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

the trustee takes the property of the bankrupt, in cases unaffected by fraud, iia the same plight and condition, that the
bankrupt himself held it, and subject to all the equities impressed upon it in the hands of the bankrupt, except in cases
where there has been a conveyance or encumbrance of the
property which is void as against the trustee by some positive
provision of the act." As there was no provision therein
making such a mortgage void, the mortgagee was permitted
to enforce his mortgage as a valid instrument, and to retain
possession" of the property. There was no fraud in fact and no
transfer of any, property in fraud of creditors, and the property
was not at the time of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy,
or, at the time of the adjudication, liable to -levy and sale under
judicial process against the bankrupt. It had already been
taken possession of by the mortgagee under a valid mortgage,
and was not subject to any other liability of the mortgagor.
Humphrey v. Tatman reiterates the principle that whether
such a mortgage as is referred to in the Fairbankscase is good
or bad, depends upon the state law.
Ii York Manufacturing Company v. Cassell, the same question arose as in theHewit case. There was a sale of property
t6 one who thereafter became bankrupt, with acondition that
no title to the property should pass until it was paid for.
Such a conditional sale was good under the Ohio law, where
the instrument was executed, except as to those creditors
-who, between the time of the execution of the instrument and
the filing thereof, 'had obtained some specific lien upon the
property: There were no such creditors, and hence there was
no one who 'could question the validity of the instrunent at
'the time the trustee's title would have accrued, unless it was
the trustee in bankruptcy. He made the claim that the adjudication in bankruptcy was equivalent to a judgment or an
attachment or other specific lien on the -property, so as to'
prevent the vendor from asserting its title and its legal right
to remove the property on account of the non-payment-*of the
purchase price. We held that, as the conditional sale was valid

SECURITY WAREHOUSING CO. v. HAND.
206 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

by the law of Ohio, except as to a certain class of creditors, if
there were no such creditors there was no one who could question the validity of the instrument; that the adjudication in
bankruptcy did not give the trustee the right to do so, because
in that case the adjudication did not operate as the equivalent
of a judgment or attachment or other specific lien on the property. The trustee represented no one who had that right, as
there were no creditors who had liens on the property when the
title of the trustee to the property of the bankrupt accrued.
Section 70 of the bankrupt act had no application. There was
no property within either the fourth or fifth subdivision of that
section. The fact that if there had been a creditor of the bankrupt of the class mentioned who had obtained a specific lien on
the property prior -to the ,adjudication in bankruptcy, the trustee could in that case have enforced the same, did not make
any difference, because no such thing had been done when the
adjudication in bankruptcy was made. This court had .theretofore approved the remark in In re New York Economical
Printing Company, 110 Fed. Rep. 514, 518, that the present
bankrupt act contemplates that a lien good as against the
bankrupt and all of his creditors at the time of the filing of
the petition in bankruptcy should remain undisturbed. Hewit
case, supra. Upon these facts it was reiterated that the trustee
takes the property as the bankrupt held it.
The case at bar bears no resemblance in its facts to the cases
just cited. There was no valid disposition of the property
in the case before us, or any valid lien. The so-called warehouse receipts issued by the warehousing company to the
knitting company, upon the facts of this case, gave no lien
under the law in Wisconsin, in which State they were issued.
In such case this court follows the state court. Etheridge v.
Sperry, 139 U. S. 266; Dooley v. Pease, 180 U. S. 126.
By section 70a, the trustee in bankruptcy is vested by
operation of law with the title of the bankrupt to all property
transferred by him in fraud of his creditors, and to all property
which, prior to the filing of the petition, might have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

.206 U. S.

levied upon and .sold by judicial process against him; and by
subdivision (e) of the same section the trustee in, bankruptcy
may avoid any transfer by the bankrupt of his property,
which any' creditor of the bankrupt might avoid, and may
recover the property so transferred, or its Value. Here are
,special provisions placing the title to the property transferred
by fraud, or otherwise as mntioned, in the trustee in bankruptcy, and .gtving him the power to avoid the same.
The' title to this pfoperty was in the knitting company.
Therehad been no valid pledge of it, because the possession
had been, at all times, in the knitting company, and it could
-have been levied upon-and sold under judicialprocess against
'the knitting- company at the time of the adjudication in
bankruptcy. The security company had, of course, full knowledge that the, knitting company in, fact at least shared in thel:
ac- .
possession of the. property. It was itself an actor, oitquiesced in the- arrangement under which it had, at most,
but a partial possession, .and even that was subject to the
control of the knitting company.
-The method taken to store the pwropersty w , as found by
the District. Court, a mere device or subterfuge to enable the
-bankrupt to hypothecate the receipts,,- and thus 'raise 'money
upon secret liens on property in the possession of the pledgor
.and under its control, and such scheme the court said ought
not to receive judicial sanction; Such:a scheme, .under the
facts and as carried out in this case, and with :regard to Wisconsin law, was a fraud in fact, and neither the receipts nor
the so-called pledge 'could be asserted against any. of .the
creditors.
It was held by tbe Circuit Court, of Appe.Als in a cse arising:
in Wiscosin, relative to a ehattel mortgage, which gaye power
tothe mortgagor to make sales from the mortgaged property
for his own use and. benefit, that such a mortgage was fraudulent in fact, so it could not Ve asserted even against general
creditors, citing Wisconsin cases. In re Antigo Screeii Door Co.,
128 Fed. Rep. 249,, 254.
.

SECURITY WAREHOUSING CO. v. HAND.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

A further question was ruled upon in the above-cited case.
It was in respect to a second mortgage upon chattels which
had not been properly filed, but the mortgagee had taken
possession of the mortgaged property prior to the filing of
the petition in bankruptcyj although long subsequent to the
giving of the.mortgage, and it was held that the mortgagee
might hold the property as against the trustee in bankruptcy
representing general creditors. There was no fraud in fact
alleged. It was said by -Judge Jenkins; in delivering the
opinion of the court: "When the statute (Rev. St., Wis., 1898,
section 2313) declares that a chattel mortgage shall be invalid
against any other person than the parties thereto, unless
possession be delivered and retiined, or the mortgage be filedthere being no actual fraud and no collusive delay in the filing,
or the taking of. possession-we think the statute must be
construed to mean that the omission to file or to take possession renders the mortgage invalid only as to the creditor who,
by execution or attachment, has acquired a lien upon the
property." The case illustrates the distinction .taken between
fraud in fact and. the mere failure to file a mortgage otherwise
valid against the world.
Under the circumstances of this case we are satisfied there
was no valid pledge nd no equitable lien in favor of the intervenors which would take precedence of the'title of the trustee
by virtue of the special provisions of the bankrupt act.
The decree is
Affirmed.

