OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

206 U. S.

right beyond legislative or municipal alteration to the prejudice of the, other contracting party.
While we, therefore, reach the conclusion that the former
case did not adjudicate the matter, we think the contract in
this respect was within the power of the council and cannot
be violated consistently with the contract rights of the company by the subsequent ordinances of the city.
In this case the Circuit Court rendered a final decree. practically upon the bill and answer. No testimony was taken,
and all that was before the court was the bill, answer and exhibits. We think the decree goes too far in enjoining the city
from interfering with. the contract right of the company to
charge the rates fixed thereby, in view of the allegations of
the -nswer, that the rates charged. by the company exceeded
those named in section 13 of the ordinance of 1886.
The decree should be modified, so as to enjoin interference
on the part of the city during the term of this. contract, with
the right of the company to charge rates not in excess of
fifty cents a thousand gallons to private consumers, as set
forth, in the ordinance.
With this modification, the decree will be
Affirmed.

BERNHEIMER v. CONVERSE.
DREY AND BERNHEIMER v. CONVERSE.
IN ERROR TO ,THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE -SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
-

Nog. 278, .279.

Argued April 25, 26,1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.

This qourt in this case followed the. judgment -of the highest court of the
State in. determining that. a-corporation was not within the exception,
constittiffonal and statutory,, as to stockholders' liability in favor of certain classes of corporations. Where, as in Minndsota, stockholders' liability is fixed ahid measured by the. Constitution, a stockholder upon

BERNHEIMER v. -CONVERSE.,
206 U. S.

517

Statement of: the Case.

acquiring his stock. incuis an obligation arising from the constitutional
provisions, and as such capable of being enforced in the courts not only of
that State but of another State and of the United States.
There is a broad distinction between laws impairing the obligation of contracts
and those which simply give a more efficient remedy to enforce a contract
.already given, and the statute of Minnesota of 1899-for the.enforcement
of stockholders' liability, under which, the constitutional liability can be
enforced by thp receiver without the State, is not void under the impairment of obligation.clause of the Constitution of the United States because
it'repealed a prior act under which the stockholders' liability could not be
so enforced.
An act intended to make effectual a Iibility which is incurred by stockholders
under the constitution of the State and Which operates equally upon all
stockholders and :assesses all by a uniform.rule should not, in the .absence
of substantial reasons, be rendered. nugatory, and the Minnesota act of'
1899 will not be declared Void as violating 'the' constitutional rights of
stockholders either because it provides for fixing the liability in a proceed-,
ing within the State to which non-resident stockholders are hot parties, or
because it'changes the procedure for collecting the assessment, and gives
the receiver the right to maintain actions without the State.
.One who becomes a member of a corporation assumds the liability attachiftg
to such membership and becomes, subject to such 'regulations as the State
may lawfully make to render the liability effectual.
While a chancery receiver, hgving no authority other than that arising from
his appointment, may not maintain'an action in another jurisdiction, a
receiver may sue in a foreign jurisdiction to collect statutory liability..of
stockholders where the statute confers the right upon the receiveras quasiSassignee.
Section 55 of ch. 588, N. Y. Laws of 1892, limiting the time. within which to
bring an action against-a stockholder for a debt of the corporation does
not apply to an action brought by a receiver to enforce statutory liability
of stockholder of a foreign corporation.

THEsE

are Writs of error to the Circuit Court of 'the United

States for the Southern District. of NeW York.The actions .were brought (January 28, 29, 1904) by Theodore R.'Converse as receiver of the Minnesota Thresher Manufacturing .Company, a corporation 6f' th State of Minnesota,
to enforce an alleged stockholders' liability under the constitution and, laws of the State of Mlinnesota., The court below
held the executors of 'Simon .Bernheimer and Isaac 'Berriheimer, both having died before the suits were brought, liable
as such stockholders.

518. '

OCTOBER TERM, .1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

The record, discloses that the Minnesota Thresher Manufacturing Company was incorporated under the laws of the
State of Minnesota on the fifth of December, 1884, the objects
for which the corporation was formed being the purchase of
the capital stock, evidences 'qf indebtedness and assets of the
Northwestern Manufacturing and Car Company, also a corporation under the laws of the State of Minnesota, and for
the further purpose of manufacturing and selling steam engines,
'farm implements,. machinery, etc., and the manufacture and
sale 'of articles, implements and machinery of which wood
and iron form the principal parts.
The Northwestern Manufacturing and Car Company was
in the hands of a receiver, carrying on its business under the
orders of a court, and, on October 27, 1887, the property and
plant of that company, including all its bills receivable, farmers'
notes and assets 'were sold under decree and purchased by the
Minnesota. Thresher Manufacturing Company. The lastnamed company continued in business until December, 1900.
On December 14 of that year -the property and business of
the thresher company were placed in the hands of a receiver
by the order of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota, in a suit for ,the foreclosure of a mortgage upon its property, and this receiver'carried on the business
until' the mortgaged property was sold under a decree of foreclosure on May 25, 1,901.
On May 6, 1901, the Merchants' National Bank of St. Paul
obtained a judgment inthe District .Court of'Ramsey, County,.
Minnesota, against the thresher company, and executions
thereon having been returned' unsatisfied, the :judgment
.creditor brought suit against the thresher company for the
appointment of a 'receiver and the enforcement of the 'individual liability of its stockholders in the District Court of
Washington County, Minnesota. -Inthat suit Theodore R..
error in these cases, was appointed'
Con verse, defendant in.
receiver. On the petition of the receiver,. for the purposerof
providing funds for the payment of the expenses of thereceiver-'

BERNHEIMER v. CONVERSE.
206 U. S.

Argument for Plaintijis in Error.

ship in the enforcement of the stock liability and payment
of indebtedness, an order was made, December 22, 1902, reciting, among other things, that copies of an order of April 16,
1902 (not in the record), had bee.j published, mailed and served
as therein required, and that due notice of the hearing had
been given to the defendant company and to each stockholder
of record as directed by the order, and, on a hearing duly had,
an order of assessment of thirty-six per cent of the par value
of each share of the capital stock of the thresher company,
to wit, eighteen dollars per share, was assessed against. each
and every share of the capital stock 'and against each and
every person, corporation or party liable as such stockholder,
and each such person, corporation or party was directed to
pay to the said receiver, at his office in the city of Stillwater,
Minnesota, within thirty days after the date of the order,
the said sum of eighteen dollars a share; and, further, upon
failure to pay said sums, the receiver was authorized to prosecute actions or proceedings against the persons liable in any
court having jurisdiction in the State of Minnesota or elsewhere. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State of Minnesota this order was affirmed. 90 Minnesota, 144. Subsequently,
as stated, these actions were brought and judgment rendered
against'the executors of the Bernheimers.
Mr. Lawrence Arnold Tanzer for plaintiffs in error:.
The statute of 1899, under which the proceedings for the
assessment were taken, impairs the obligation, of the contract
between the stockholders and the creditors.
,The liability is a contractual liability.' Hanson v. Davison,
73 Minnesota, 454, 460; Flash v. Conn, 109 U. S. 371, 377;
Hawthorne v. Calef, 2 Wall. 10; Whitman v. Oxford National
Bank, 176 U. S. 559, 563; Knickerbocker Trust Co. v. Myers,
133 Fed. Rep. 764, affirmed Myers v. Knickerbocker Trust Co.,
139 Fed. Rep. 111, 112, 114; Carrollv. Green, 92 U..S. 509, 513.
The terms of the stockholders' contract are embodied in
the constitution and statutes in force at the time when he ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

206 U. S.

quired his stock. Von Hoffman v. City of Quincy, 4 Wall.
535, 550; Webster v. Bowers, 104 Fed. Rep. 627.
The constitution and the statute are to be construed together. Allen v. Walsh, 25 Minnesota, 543, 551; Whitman v.
Oxford National Bank, 176 U. S. 559, 563; Middletown National
Bank v. Toledo &c. Ry. Co., 197 U. S. 394, 405.
The provisions. creating the liability are to be strictly construed, and cannot be extended beyond the words used.
Brunswick Terminal Co. v. 'National Bank of Baltimore, 192
U. S. 386, 390;. Converse v. eEtna National Bank, 64 Atl. Rep.
341, 344.
The act' of 1899 deprives stockholders of property without
due process of law, by, authorizing a conclusive judgment
against non-resident: stockholders who have not been served
with process.
The only notice to stockholders provided for by the act is
that on the petition being filed the court "shell direct such,
notice of such hearing to be given .by the party presenting
said petition, b "publication or otherwise; as the court in its
discretion may deem proper." Section 6 proyides that it shall
be the duty of the assignee or receiver to bring an action against
every stockholder for the amount so assessed against him;
'In the case at bar, the defendants were not parties to the.
assessment proceedings, and had no knowledge in fact of •them.
They contend. that the statute, permitting a conclusive assessment against them without service of process, upon them,
deprives them of their property without due process of law.
Due process of law requires personal service of process,
or a voluntary appearance. Mason v. Eldred, 6 Wall. 231, 239;
Pennoyqr v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 733, 734; Haddock v. Haddock,
201 U. S. 562, 567; Clark v. Wells, 203 U.,S. 164, 170.
The Minnesota court was, without jurisdiction to make the
order of assessment.'
These actions were brought upon the assessment order,
as on a judicial determination binding upon the defendants.
Whether the District Court of Washington County, Minnesota,

BERNHEIMER v. CONVERSE.
206 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

had jurisdiction to make that determination is a proper subject
of inquiry, for if that court acted without jurisdiction, its
determination is a nullity, and no recovery can be based on it.
Williamson v. Berry, 8 How. 495, 540; Thompson v. Whitman,
18 Wall. 457, 468; Old Wayne Life Assn. v.. McDonough, 204
U. S. 8, 15-17.
That court had no jurisdiction of the subject-matter, because
no state of facts existed under which it was authorized to
appoint a receiver and make an assessment. The statute of
1899 authorizes the District Court to proceed in the manner
•therein prescribed, in certain cases. Unless :one of those cases
or states of fact existed, the court had no jurisdiction to proceed.
Thatcher v. Powell, 6 Wheat. 119, 127; East Tennessee, Va. &
Ga. R. R.Co. v. Southern Telegraph Co., 112.U. S. 306, 310;
Griffith v. Frazier, 8 Cranch,, 9, 23; Hatch v. Ferguson, 68 Fed.
Rep. 43, 45; Murray v,., American Surety Co., 70 Fed. Rep.
341, 346.
The District Court had no jurisdiction of the persons of the
defendants, because it failed to give them the notice required
by the statute. Even if compliance with this requirement would
constitute due process :of law, the burden of proof was upon
plaintiff to show such compliance; in default of which he has
failed to show jurisdiction over the persons of the defendants,
and the assessment order is a nullty,! "Galpinv. Page,.18 Wall.
350; Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274, 283, 284; Old Wayne
Life Assn. v. McDonough, 204 U. S. 8, 18.
'The actions wer6 barred by limitation, because not brought
within two years after the defendants ceased to be stockholders in the thresher company, within the meaning of § 55
of the Stock Corporation Law of New York which provides that
"no action shall be brought against a stockholder after he shall
have ceased to be a stockholder, for any debt of the corporation,
unless brought within two years from the time he shall have
ceased to be a stockholder."
The provision cited is a statute of limitations relating to
the liability of stockholders in all stock corporations, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

206 U. S.

is applicable not •only to an action: against a single stockholder
on a single debt, but also'-to liabilities of all the stockholders
to contribute -ratably to a deficiency. Adams v. Wallace,
82 App. Div. 117; Adams v. Slingerland, 89 App. Div. 312;
Sanford v. Rhoads, 113 App. Div. 782.
The limitation is applicable to actions against stockholders
in all corporations, foreign as well as domestic.
General Ccrporation Law of New York (Laws of 1892,
Chapter 687), §§ 2, 3, subd. 5, §.33. Platt v. Wilmot, 193 U. S.602; Hobbs v. National Bankof Commerce, 96 Fed. Rep. 396.
When the defendants 'ceasect to be stockholders within the
meaning of this statute is a question of local law, upon which
the decisions of the state courts are controlling. Great Western
Telegraph'Co. V. Purdy, 162 U. S. 329, 339.
The question has been decisively settled in Hollingshead V.
Woodward 107 N. Y. 96.
Mr. William G. Wilson, with, whn''Mr. C. A. Severance
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The plaintiff, as ieceiver, is entitled to maintain actions in
New York and elsewhere to enforce the, individual liabilities
of the defendant's testators, and other stockholders, inasmuch
:as those liabilities are made assets for the payment of corporate
.obligations and are vested in, the receiver.
'The constitution Of Minnesota imposed upon stockholders
of -the Mifinesota Thresher Company a general and several
liability for all legal obligations of the corporation to an
amount equal to the par Value of the stock respectively owned
or held by them.
The act of 1899, in legal effect, vested the title to, these
individual liabilities ih the receiver, as a trustee for creditors,
and directly authorized, the receiver to maintain, actions for
their collection, wherever the stockholder should be found'
The receiver thereby became a statutory, assignee. See
Kennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 498; Relfe v. Rundle, 103 U. Si 222;
Howarth cases.

BERNHEIMER v. CONVERSE.
206 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The right of a Minnesota receiver appointed and proceeding
under the act of 1899 is recognized and, in legal effect, approved
by this court in the Burget case, 188 U. S. 739, when it reversed
the judgment in Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S. 56, where the
receiver had been appointed before the act of 1899 was passed
and refused to entertain the Burget case, although its a'ttention,
was explicitly drawn to the claim that the two cases presented
the identical question. And this, also, although this court had
in the meanwhile held in Finney v. Guy, 189 U. S. 335, that a
Minnesota receiver appointed' before the. act of 1899 could not
maintain such action.
The right of the present receiver, Converse, to maintain
these. present actions in the Federal court in New York, is
not open to question.. Willis V. Mabon, 48 Minnesota, 140;
Whitman v. Otxord Bank, 176 U. S. 559; State v: Thresher Co.,
40 Minnesota, 213,:Merchants' Bank v. Thresher Co.,,90 Minne.sota, 144; 'Bank v-. Winona -Plow' Oo., 58 Minnesota, 167;
Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U. S. 506; Bank v. Converse, 200
U. S. 425; Hale v. Hardon, 89 Fed. Rep. 283; Howarth v. Angle,
162 ,N. Y. 179, 187; Howarth v. Lombard, 175 Massachusetts,
570, 574, 579; Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S. 56; Relfe v.'Rundle,
103 U. S. 222; Burget v. Robinson, 123 Fed. Rep. 262; Finney v.
Guy, 189 U. Sf 335.'
The obligations and liabilities'of the stockholders of the
thresher company rest upon a contract by which they havre submitted themselres to the' jurisdiction and control of the State
of' Minnesota. , Bank v. Deuveaux, 5) Cranch, 61;: Marshall V.
B. &O, R .R.Co., 16.How. 314; Muller V. Dows, 94 U. S. 444.
The Wieegislation f Minnesota in providing an adequate and
effectual 'remedy 'for enf6rcing the obligations and- liabilities
of stockholders does not impair any obligation of their coiitracts.'
Sfurwes Y. Crowinshield,4 Wheat., 122, 197; Bank v. Francklyn,
120 U.S . 747' 755; 'Evans v. Nellis, 187 U. S. 271; Bank v.
Reckless, 96. Fed. Rep. 70; Commonwealth v. Bank, 3 Allen
(Mass.), 42; Story v. Furman,25 N. Y. 214; Bronson v. Kinzie,
1 How. 315; Railroad Co. v. New Orleans, 157 U. . 224.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.
'MR. JUSTICE DAY,

206 U. S.

after making the foregoing statement, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
Before entering, upon a discussion of the objections urged
against the validity of the assessment upon .stockholders
which is the subject of controversy here, we may say we find
no reason to disagree with the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Minnesota In holding the Minnesota Thresher Manufacturing
Company; to be a corporation organized for other than the
purpose of.* carrying on any kind of mxanufacturing or mechanical business, and therefore not within the exception as
to stockholders' liability. in favor of*corporations of that kind.
State v. Minnesota Thresher. Man. Co., 40 Minnesota, 215;
Merchants Bank v. Minnesota Thresher Man. Co., 90 Minnesota,
144.

The questions made in these cases involve the right to -recover upon a stockholder's liability in a Federal court in a
State: other than the one in which the original proceedings
in liquidation. were had, and under whose laws the corporation
was formed and wlherein it carried on business, against stock- holders 'in such corporate companies as the thresher company,
.where the stock had been acquired before the passage of the
statute of 1899. General Laws of Minnesota, chap. 272, being
"An act to provide for the better enforcement of the liability
of stockholders of corporations."
A former statute had been for some years in force in Minnesota and was the statute law of 'the State when the stock,'
which concerns the controversy here was :acquired by the
Bernheimers. This statute was before this court in the cases
of Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S. 56, and Finney v. Guy,'189'U. S.
335. It was the -act of 1894,, General Statutes of Minnesota
'of that year, chap. 76, p. 1595, and is set forth in full in the
margin, 188-U. S. p. 60.
Under that at it was held, in a series of decisions in the
State of Minnesota, which were reviewed in Hale v. Allinson,
that an action coul~I only -be maintained under the laws of

BERNHEIMER v. CONVERSE.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Minnesota when brought by a creditor or creditors for the
benefit of all creditors of the corporation, and the recovery
was had for the purpose of making good any deficiency in the
corporate assets for the payment of corporate debts; that the
receiver could not maintain such an action outside of the
jurisdiction of the court appointing him, and that the only
remedy was, as stated, in a creditor's action, bringing in all
the stockholders, for the realization of a fund to be proportionately distributed. among the creditors in one suit.
The principal contentions in these cases are that the act of
1899, above referred to, works such a change in the. contract
theretofore existing by virtue of the acquisition of stock in a.
Minnesota corporatioil as to impair the obligation thereof,
and, in ways to be hereafter noticed, undertakes to hold a
stockholder by judgment rendered without due process of law.
The act of 1899 was before this court in the case of the
FirstNational Bank v. Converse, 200 U. S. 425, and its principal
parts are set forth in the margin of the report of that case on
page 428. The act, for our purposes, may be summarized as
follows:.
"SEc. 1. Whenever any corporation created or existing
under the laws of the State of Minnesota, whose stockholders
or any of them are liable to it or to its creditors .
upon or on account of any liability for

....

the stock or

shares .at any time held or owned by such stockholders, respectively, whether under or by virtue of the constitution and
laws of said State of Minnesota, or any statute of said State
or otherwise, has heretofore made or shall hereafter make any
assignment for the benefit of its creditors under the insolvency
laws of this State; or whenever a receiver for any such corporation has heretofore been or shall hereafter be appointed by any
district court of. this State, whether under or pursuant to
any statute of this State or under the general equity
powers and practice of such court, the district court appointing
such receiver or having jurisdiction of the matter of said assignment may proceed as in this act provided."

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of te Court.

206 U. S.

Section 2 provides that upon 'the petition of the assignee
or receiver, or. any .creditor od the corporation who has filed
his claim, .the.District Court shall appoint*a time for hearing
not less than thirty days nor more, than sixty days from the
time. of filing said petition, and direct notice of the hearing to
begiven by publication or otherwise, in the discretion of the
court, but if the petition be filed by a creditor, other than the
assigneo or receiver, the court shall direct- notice of the hearing
to be personally served on the assignee or receiver.
Section 3 provides that the court shall consider the proofs
offered by the assignee or' receiver, or by any creditor or stock'hoidei who -may appear. in person or by attorney, as to 'the
probable indebtedness of the corporation and the expenses' of.
the assignment' or receivership and, the probable amount of
assets aivailable for the' payment, of such indebtedness and
expenses; also as to what parties are or may be liable as stockholders and the nature and extent of such liability. And if
it shall appear to the satisfaction of such -court that the Iordinary asset; or such amount 'as. may, be realized therefrom
in a reasonable time, will not be sufficient to pay the expenses,,
of such assignment or receivership and the indebtedness, and
it is necessary to resort, to the liability of stockholders, the
orrt. shall, by order',, direct and levy a ratable- assessment
upon all parties liable as stockholders, or upon or on account
of any stock or shares, of such. corporation for such, amount:
as" the. coifrtin its 'discretion ,'may deem proper, taking into
account the. probable solvency or insolvency of stockholders
and the probable, expenses of collecting the' assessment, and
shall .direct 'the payment of the amount' so.'ssessed to the
assignee or receiver within such -time as the court 'may specify
in said order."
Section 4' provides for' an 'order to the assignee or receiver
to proceed' to 'cqllect' the amount so assessed, unless it:be paid
within' the time-specified in, the: order, andin' default of payment the receiver is.
to bring suit.
Section 5 provides that the assessment. levied shall be: con-

. BERNHEIMER -v. CONVERSE.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

elusive upon and against all parties liable upon or on account
..of any shares of said stock of such corporation, -whether appearing or having notice thereof or not, as -to all matters relating to the amount of and the necessity for said assessment,
which provision shall also apply to. any subsequent assessment
levied by order of the court..
Section- 6 makes it the duty of the assignee or receiver, upon
failure to -pay as required by the order, to institute and. maintain an action against any party..liable upon or on account
of any such shares of stock, and that actions .may be hnaintained against each stockholder in Minnesota or. in any other
State or country, where such stockholder, or .any property
subject to attachment, garnishment, or other process may be
found, and. provides that if the assignee' or receiver shall be* lieve any such stockholder to be insolvent, or that the expense
of prosecuting such action'will work to the disadvantage of
the estate, he shall aot be required to prosecute the same,.
unless specifically directed so to do by the court.
Section .7 provides for further asseIssments in case the first
proves -inadequate.
Sectibn 8 extends the "provisions of the act to such subse-.
quent assessments.
'Section 9 provides Where tivo or'more assessments are levied
or directed,. the assignee or receiver may join the. causes of
action against any stockholder on two or moIte such assessments..
Section -10 provides. that if the assignee or rec6iver fails to
instit,ute or prosecute the action, the -creditors may petition
the court to compel him to 'proceed, under certain conditions.
Section'11. provides for the return of the surplus, if any
remain, in the hands of -the assignee or.receiver after paying
the expenses of. the assignment or receivership and the claims
of. the creditors,, and -that stockholders who have paid assessments shall, in addition to the remedy provided in the statute,
be entitled to enforce contributions from stockholders who have
not paid- assessments.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

Section 12 provides for additional judgments in case of the
inadequacy of former ass.essmenits.
Section 13 excludes certain stockholders in pending actions
from the operation, of the act.
This statute came before the Supreme Court of Minnesota
-in Straw & Ellsworth Company v. Kilbourne Boot & Shoe
Manufacturing Company, 80 Minnesota, 125. -In that case
it 'was given full consideration and its constitutionality sustained, and it was held that while the assessments upon the
'outstanding shares of stock in an'amount necessary to meet
the deficiency in the assets of the corporation. was conclusive
upon. the stockholders as. membersof the corporation,. yet
the statute, properly construed, -did not have the effect to
deprive a person, when sued for the amount assessed on shares
of stock under the provisions of the act, from showing that
he,was not a stockholder,, or that he was not the holder of. so
large an amount'of-stock as was alleged,. or that he had a claim
against the corporation which in law or equity' he might be
enabled 'to set off as against a claim for assessments,
or from
'making any. other aefense personal to himself; and that the
order of assessment was c6nclusive upon stockholders only
in so far as it decided the amount of assets or liabilities of the
insolvent corporation and the necessity of making an assessment. upon the stock to the extent and in the.amount ordered.
The constitutionality of the act was again . affirmed in the,
same court in the later case of The London &c.-Mortgage Co. v.
St. Paid Park & Improvement, Co., 84 Minnesota, 144.
The stockholders' liability in Minnesota, as in' some, other
States, has. its originin a constitutional provision, and arises
under section 39,
article X; of the .constitution of that State.
The language'is:
.
"Liabilities of stockholders
'any corporation -(excepting those
"Each stockholder 'In
organized for the' purpose' of carrying.6n any kind of manu
facturing or mechanical business) shall be liable.to the amount
of stock.held or owned by him."

BERNHEIMER v. CONVERSE.
206 U. S.

529

Opinion of the Court.

The courts of Minnesota havo held that a stockholder's
liability is, therefore, fixed and-measured by the constitution.
Willis v. Mabon, 48 Minnesota, 140; McKusicc v. Seymour,
Sabin & Co., 48 Minnesota, 158. It is apparent from a consideration of this constitutional provision that its purpose
was to make a stockholder liable to the creditors of the corporation in an amount not exceeding the par value of the stock
held by him, and thus secure for the benefit of such creditors,
in addition to the assets and property which the corporation
might possess, the liability of those who hold its stock in a sum
necessary to make good any deficiency between the amount
of the assets and the debts within the limitation stated. It is
.evident from the general language used in this constitutional
provision that while a remedy might have been worked out
in the courts of equity in the State, it was proper if not necessary
that a statute should be passed to make more effectual the
liability thus secured by the constitution.
In pursuance of that power the legislature passed the act
of 1894, which remained in force until the passage of the act
of 1899.
The fundamental contention upon which the argument of
the plaintiff in error against the constitutionality of this subsequent act rests is that the statute created a contract into
which the stockholder entered upon subscribing to or obtaining
his stock, which the legislature had no power to change without running counter to the constitutional requirement invalidating laws impairing the obligation of contracts. Constitution, Art. 1, § 10.
It may be regarded as settled that upon acquiring stock
the stockholder incurred an obligation arising ,from the constitutional provision, contractual in its nature and, as such,
capable of being enforced in the courts not only of that State,
but of another State and of the United States, Whitman &c. v.
Bank, 176 U. S. 559, although the obligation is not entirely
contractual and springs primarily frqm the law 'creating the
obligation. Christopherv. Norvell, 201 U. S.216.
. VOL. ccvi-34

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

Is there anything in the obligation of this contract which
is impaired by subsequent legislation as to the remedy enacting new means of making the liability more effectual? The
obligation of this contract binds the stockholder to pay to
the creditors of the corporation an amount sufficient to pay
the debts of the corporation which its assets will not pay,
up to an amount equal to the stock held by each shareholder.
That is his contract, and the duty which the statute imposes,
and that is his obligation. Any statute which took away
the benefit of such contract or obligation would be void as to
the creditor, and any attempt to increase the obligation be-.
yond that incurred by the stockholder would fall within the
prohibition of the Constitution. But there was nothing in
the laws of Minnesota undertaking to make effectual the constitutional provision to which we have referred, preventing
the legislature from giving additional remedies to make the
obligation of the stockholder effectual, so long as'his original
undertaking was not enlarged. There is a broad distinction
between laws impairing the obligation of contracts and those
which simply undertake to give a more efficient remedy to
enforce a contract already made.
This principle was stated by Mr. Chief Justice Marshall in
Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122, as follows:
"The distinction between the obligation of a contract and
a remedy given by the legislature to enforce that obligation
exists in the nature of things, and, without impairing the
obligation of the contract, the remedy may certainly be
modified as the wisdom of the Nation may direct."
The same rule is recognized in Hill v. Merchants' Ins. Co.,
134 U. S. 515, wherein a statute was sustained changing the
character of the remedy against stockholders in common
to one giving a direct remedy against an individual stockholder. The principle was clearly enunciated in Wagoner v.
Flack, 188 U. S. 595-603, in which Mr. Justice Peckham,
speaking for the court, said:
"To enact laws providing remedies for. a violation of con-

BERNHEIMER v. CONVERSE.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tracts, to alter or enlarge those remedies from time to time
as to the legislature may. seem appropriate, is an exercise of
sovereignty, and it cannot be supposed that the State in a
case like thig, contracts in a public act of its legislature to
limit its power in the future, even if it could do so, with or
without consideration, unless the language of the act is so absolutely, plain and unambiguous as to leave no room for-doubt
that its true meaning amounts to a cOntract by it to part
with its power to increase the effectiveness of existing remedies."
See, also, Wilson v. Standejer, 184 U. S. 399; New Orleans
City &c. Railroad Co. v. New Orleans, 157 U. S. 219.
The liability arising under the constitution of Minnesota
was such that legislation was appropriate to make it effectual.
We can find nothing in the fact that one legislature has passed'
an act which would conclude a subsequent law-making body
of equal power from passing new and additional measures
to make the remedy more effectual. That the first act did
not accomplish its purpose is evident. Under it stockholders
in another State, who could not be reached by personal service,
were immune from liability and the entire burden was cast
upon local stockholders. There was no provision for a receiver
or assignee beginning action outside the State, and it was
held by this court in Hale v. Allinson, supra, that a chancery
receiver was powerless to enforce the rights of creditors beyond the borders of the State. In this condition of affairs
the State of Minnesota has undertaken to provide a proeeeding
for the settlement of insolvent corporations which shall ascertain the assets of the corporation, the extent of the indebtednpss of the corporation the amount to which it is necessary,
if at all, to call upon the stockholders' liability. It is obviously an act intended to make effectual the liability which
is incurred by stockholders under the constitution of the State,
and it ought not to be rendered nugatory unless substantial
objection exists against its enforcement. It operates equally
upon all stockholders at home and abroad and assesses all by
a uniform rule.
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

We shall proceed to notice some of the specific objections
which are urged against the validity of this legislation by
stockholders who acquired stock before the act of. 1899 went
into effect.
It is said that the stockholder is held liable in a proceeding
to which he is not a party. Under the prior act he could only
be held where service could be had upon him personally,
but if we are right in the proposition just announced, that
additional remedies may be provided by legislation, then the
validity of such additional enactments depends not necessarily
upon the personal service upon the stockholder, but upon the
fact whether the remedy provided is a well-recognized means
of enforcing such obligations and not in violation of constitutional rights. It is true that the stockholder is not necessarily served with process in the action wherein the assessment is made under the act of 1899, but no personal judgment
is rendered against him in that proceeding, and it has reference
to a corporation of which he is a ineiiber by virtue of his
holding stock therein, and the proceeding has for its purpose
the liquidation of the affairs of the corporation, the collection
anl application of its assets and of other liabilities which.
may be administered for the benefit of creditors. In such case
it has been frequently held that the representation which a
stockholder has by virtue of his membership in the corporation
is all that he is entitled to. It was so held in a well-considered
case in Massachusetts, Howarth v. Lombard, 175 Massachusetts,
570. And it has been held in cases in this court that when
an assessment is necessary to be made upon unpaid stock
subscriptions for the benefit of creditors, the court may make
the assessment without the presence or personal service of stockholders. Hawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 319; Great Western Tel.
Co. v. Purdy, 162 U. S. 329, 336.
Nor can we see any substantial difference in this respect
between a liability to be ascertained for the benefit of creditors
upon a stock subscription and the liability for the same purpose which is entailed by becoming a member of a corporation

BERNHEIMER v. CONVERSE.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

through the purchase of stock whereby a contract is implied
in favor of creditors. The object of the enforcement of both
liabilities is for the benefit of creditors, and while it is true
that one promise is directly to the corporation and the other
does not belong to the corporation but is for the benefit ofits creditors, either liability may be enforced through a receiver acting for the benefit of creditors. under the orders
of a court in winding up the corporation in case of its insolvency.
It is sought 'to distinguish between the Massachusetts- case
of Howarth v. Lombard, 175 Massachusetts, supra, and kindred cases, and the one at bar, in the fact that when the stock
was acquired in that case a statutory provision was already.
in existence which made the stockholder liable to an assessment in a proceedifig in which the stockholder was represented
by the corporation. But, as we have said, keeping within
the constitutional measure of liability, it was within the power
of the legislature of Minnesota to. make provisions, within
the limits of due process of law, for the liquidation of the
affairs of the corporation in a proceeding in the State of its
origin, wherein members of the corporation should be sufficiently represented by the presence of the corporation itself.
This practice has the sanction of the courts, as we have already
shown. It is substantially the procedure authorized by the
national banking act, except that the Comptroller of the
Currency takes the place of the court, and, without the presence
of the stockholders, makes a conclusive assessment. We
cannot find any constitutional right belonging to the stockholder which is violated by this change in the character and
nature of the remedy against him.
By becoming a member of a Minnesota corporation, and
assuming the liability attaching to such membership, he becane subject to such regulations as the State might lawfully
make to render the liability effectual.
It is further urged that in imposing upon the stockholder
the additional expense in a proceeding where the expenses
incident to the enforcement of the liability in other States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

and against other parties, are taken into consideration and
included in the estimate, there is an unwarranted increase
in the amount which could be recovered against the stockholder under the former statute. But remembering at all
times that the obligation of the shareholder was the creature
"of the constitution of Minnesota, we think the fact that the
additional expenses were included in the assessment cannot
operate to defeat it. Such expenses are incident to the ascertainment of the trust. fund, which it is necessary to realize
from the liability of stockholders, and as long as these expenses are kept within the amount of the original liability
no legal right is violated. League v. Texas, 184 U. S. 156;
Richmond v. Irons, 121 U. S. 27; King v. Pomeroy, 121 Fed.
Rep. 287.
It is objected that the receiver cannot bring this action,
and Booth v. Clark, 17 How. 322; Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S.
56, and Great Western Mining Co. v. Harris, 198 U. S. 561,
are cited and relied upon. But in each and all of these cases
it was held that a chancery receiver, having no other authority
than that which would arise from his appointment as such,
could not maintain an action in another jurisdiction. In this
case the statute confers the right upon the receiver, as a quasi
assignee, and representative of the creditors, and as such
vested with the authority to maintain an action. In such case
we think the receiver may sue in a foreign jurisdiction. Relfe V.
Rundle, 103 U. S. 222, 226; Howarth v. Lombard, 175.Massachusetts, 570; Howarth v. Azvgle, 162 N. Y. 179, 182.
It is also contended that the action is barred by the statute
of the State of New York, limiting tp two years. the right
to. bring an action for a debt of a corporation after the defendant ' ceased to be. a stockholder. We do not think the
provision of the statute (§ 55, ch. 588, N. Y. Laws, 1892)
relied upon covers these cases. It evidently refers to domestic
corporations provided for in reference to the stockholder's
liability created by the preceding section of. the same chapter.
The cause of action did not accrue until the receiver could sue

BERNHEIMER v. CONVERSE.
206 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

upon the assessment after the stockholder had failed to pay,
as required by the order of the Minnesota court of December 22,
1902. King v. Pomeroy, 121 Fed. Rep. 287. Under the
New'York statute of limitations there was six years in which
to bring the action after it accrued, under § 382 of the code,
the Minnesota Thresher Manufacturing -Company not being
a "moneyed corporation or banking association" within § 394.
Platt v. Wilmot, 193 U. S. 603.
The present suits were brought a little more than one year
after the causes of action accrued.
Other objections are urged as to the nature of the proceedings in the court of Washington. County, Minnesota,
in which the original order was made. We have examined
them and think none of them go to the jurisdiction and authority of the court, or are such as would invalidate the order
of assessment made therein when sued upon in another jurisdiction.
In what we have said we have noticed the principal objections made to the enforcement of the order of the Minnesota
court in another jurisdiction, and, finding no error in the
judgment of the court below, it is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES,

I regret that the court has thought it unnecessary to state
specifically what contract the stockholder is supposed to have
made, as different difficulties beset the different views that
might be taken. It seems to me hard to reconcile the construction adopted with that given to the stronger words of
§ 5151 of the national bank act in McClaine v. Rankin, 197
U. S. 154, 161. But under the circumstances I shall say no
more than that I doubt the result.

