ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. KENTUCKY.
2U6 U. S.

. 129

Statement of the Case.

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.
ERROR-TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 331.

Argued April 17, 18, 1907.-Decded May 13, 1907.

A statute of Kentucky, making penal all shipments of liquor "to be paid
for. on delivery, commonly called C. 0. D. shipments," and further providing that the place where the money is paid or the goods delivered shall
be deemed to be the place of sale and that the carrier and his agents delivering the goods shall be jointly liable with the vendor, is as applied
to shipments from one State to another an attempt to regulate interstate
commerce and beyond the power of the State.
When, in a prosecution of an express company for a violation of this statute byan interstate shipment, it is averred in the indictment or stipulated
by the 'prosecution that the shipment and delivery were made and done
by.the express company in the usual course of its business as a carrier,
testimony that the'consignee did not order the goods or that the goods
were held by the agent of the company at the place of delivery for a few
days to accommodate the consignee is immaterial.

ON February 17, 1904, a grand jury returned into the
Circuit Court of Laurel County, Kentucky, an indictment
against Joe Newland -and the Adams Express. Company,
charging that "the said Joe Newland and the Adams Express
Company, the latter being a partnership engaged in and
carrying on the business of a common carrier of packages,
goods, wares and merchandise, by the method known as ex-

press

.

.

.

did in Laurel County, Kentucky, on the

seventeenth day of February, 1904, unlawfully and willfully
carry for and deliver to George Meece a parcel, package, shipment and quantity of intoxicating, spirituous, vinous and
malt liquors

.

.

.

to be and which was paid for on de-

livery at East Bernstadt in said Laurel County, same being
at the time a shipment commonly known and called C. 0. D.
shipments,

.

.

.

said shipment and delivery being made

and done at the time by said Joe Newland and said Adams
Express Company in the usual course of business of said
Adams Express Company."
VOL. CCVI-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

Subsequently the action was dismissed as to Newland,
and on a plea of not guilty the case was tried before a jury
and resulted in a verdict finding the company guilty and fixing
the fine at sixty dollars. The instructions of the court were
as follows:
"Gentlemen of the Jury: 1. If you shall believe from the
evidence, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the defendant,
Adams Express Company, is a copartnership, formed of persons whose names and number were unknown to the grand
jury that" found this indictment, and who lived out of the
State of Kentucky, but are doing business in the State of
Kentucky'and in Laurel County, Kentucky, and under the
firm name and style of 'Adams Express Company,' and that
the said Adams Express Company, in this county and within
twelve months next before the finding of the indictment
herein, knowingly delivered to the witness, George Meece,
spirituous, vinous or malt liquors in quantities of less than
five gallons at the time mentioned by the witness and received
the pay therefor, and that said company received any pay
whatever for its service in that behalf, then you should find
the defendant guilty and fix its punishment at any fine not
less than $60.00 nor more than $100.00, in your discretion,
according to proof.
"2. The court says to th jury that if they shall believe
from the evidence, beyond a reasonable, doubt, that the agent
or agents of the defendant's c6drpany that accepted, received,
transported or delivered the package mentioned in evidence by
the Witness Meece, knew, or might, by the exercise of such
care as persons of ordinary prudence are accustomed to use
in the ordinary transactions of life, have known the contents
of the package delivered to the -witness, then the defendant.
company is chargeable with such knowledge, and should be
held to know the contents of such package."
Judgment was entered on -the.verdict, which was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals of the 'tate, 87 S. W. Rep. 1111, 27
Ky. Law Reporter, 1096, and from that court the case was

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. KENTUCKY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

206 U. S.

brought here on writ of error. The act under which the prosecution was had is subsection 4 of section 2557b, Kentucky
Statutes, 1903, commonly called the "C. 0. D." law, which
is part of the general local option law as amended in 1902,
and which reads:
"All the shipments of spirituous, vinous or malt liquors,
to be paid for on delivery, commonly called C. 0. D. shipments,
into any county. city, town, district or precinct where this act
is in force shall be unlawful and shall be deemed sales of such
liquors at the place where the money is paid or the goods
delivered; the carrier and his agents. selling or delivering such
goods shall be liable jointly with the vendor thereof."
Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, Jr., and Mr. Edmund F. Trabue,
with whom Mr. Joseph S. Graydon was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error, in this case and in No. 332 argued simultaneously
herewith:

I

The statute makes it ati offense to deliver any C. 0. D.
shipment of liquor, whether ordered by the consignee or not,
and its constitutionality must be determined on that basis.
That was the very purpose of the statute. It was passed
to meet the decision of the Court of Appeals in James v. Commonwealth, 102 Kentucky, 108, where it' was held that if
whiskey ordered by letter is shipped from one county to
another by express C. 0. D., the sale takes place in the county
in which the whiskey is delivered to the carrier, and is not a
violation of a prohibitory liquor law in force in the county
to which it is shipped. It is wholly immaterial, therefore, under the statute whether the liquor has been ordered by the
consignee or not, and the court must determine its validity
on that basis.
The court cahnot amend the statute so as to limit it to
C. 0. D. shipments of liquor that have not been contracted
for by the bonsignee. The plaintiff in error has been indicted
and convicted under the statute as passed, and if it is repug1

See p. 138, post.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

206 U. S.

nant to the Constitution of the United States the conviction is
unwarranted and should be reversed. Trade Mark Cases, 100
U. S.82, 98; United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; James v. Bowman, 190 U. S. 127, 142; Ills. Central R. R. v. McKendree, 203
U. S.514; Allen v. Louisiana, 103 U. S. 80; United States v. Harris, 106 U. S.629, 641; Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270,
305; Spraiguev. Thompson, 118 U. S.90, 94; Baldwin v. Franks,
120 U. S. 678, 685; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184
U. S. 540, 565; United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253, 262.
As to the rule strictly construing criminal statutes see
Wynehamer v. The People, 13 N. Y. 378, 424, 441.
The plaintiff in error, in making and performing the contract
of shipment in good faith and in the regular course of business,
was engaged in interstate commerce, whether there was an
antecedent contract of purchase and sale between the shipper
and the consignee, or not.
The business of transporting merchandise from one State
to another, and contracts by a carrier for such transportation
are interstate commerce, in and of themselves. Hanley v.
Kansas City Southern Railway, 187 U. S.617, 619; Gloucester
Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 203; Wabash, St.
Louis & Pacific Railway Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S.557.
Whiskey, as the court has decided, is an article of commerce
which carriers engaged in interstate traffic are boundto carry.
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 110.
The transaction did not cease to be interstate commerce
because the plaintiff in error, at the request of the consignee,
held the whiskey at East Bernstadt for a week before delivering it. Heyman v. Southern Railway Co., 203 U. S.270.
As applied to interstate traffic, the statute is an unconstitutional regulation of the business, even if it be limited to
cases in which the liquor has not been ordered by the consignee.
The state legislature cannot regulate the business of inter-.
state carriers by forbidding the transportation of whiskey
from another State, or by requiring them to ascertain, at their
peril, whether goods offered to them for transportation in

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. KENTUCKY.
206 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

another State have been' contracted for by the consignee, and
by imposing a fine if it turns out that the package contains
whiskey -which was not ordered. A carrier is under no such
obligation at common law, and has' no means of compelling
the shipper to disclose his contractual relations with the consignee. Western Union Telegraph Company v. Call Publishing
Company, 181 U. S. 92, 102; Hall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485,
490; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289, 302; Bowman v.
C. & N. W. Ry., 125 U. S. 465; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S.
412.

Mr. Napoleon B. Hays, Attorney General of the State of
Kentucky, with, whom Mr. Charles H. Morris was on the
brief, for defendant in error, in this case and in Nos. 332 and
583 argued simultaneously herewith:'
The state court's construction of this statute is not subject
to review unless that construction presents a Federal question.
The state court says that the statute in question was not intended to apply, and does not apply, to interstate commerce.
Rippey' v. Texas, 193 U. S. 502 (48-767).
If the State has absolute power over the subject, then it
has the power to provide that the acceptance by an express
company of the pay for a C. 0. D. package of whiskey, which
is known to be such, whether interstate commerce or intrastate
commerce, shall constitute a sale at the place where the whiskey
is paid for.
The power of the state legislature of Kentucky to enact this
law, and to prohibit the acceptance of the pay for such packages as appears by the terms of said statute, or as it is made
to read by the construction placed upon it by the Supreme
Court in Kentucky, is not in conflict with the commerce clause
of the Federal Constitution. Noble v. Mitchell, 164 U. S. 367;
Miller v. Cornwall Railroad Co., 168 U. S. 128; Carstairs v.
Cochran, 193 U. S.. 11.
The legislature has the power to determine whether or not
' See pp. 138,and 139, post.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

206'U. S.

the sale of whiskey is detrimental to the peace, morals and
welfare of the people.
Neither the Federal Constitution nor the Fourteenth Amendment took from the States those powers of police to protect
the lives, liberty and property of its citizens, and to promote
their health, morals, education, peace and welfare. Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 678.
The statute in question is a legitimate exercise of the police
power of the State, not inconsistent with the regulation of
commerce' by Congress.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky upheld the local option
statute in tluestion upon the ground, not only because, by the
construction placed on it by said court, it did not apply to
interstate commerce, but because it was a legitimate exercise
of the police power of the State, not inconsistent with the
power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce.
This is nothing more than a trick, device and an evasion
of the law by the plaintiff in :error, and it knew, or could
have known that it was such, by the exercise of ordinary
diligence.
There comes a time when the act of transportation from
one State to another ceases to be interstate commerce. The
carrier cannot indefinitely hold in its warehouse the articles
transported, and without notifying the consignee or consignor, thus prevent the articles mentioned in the Wilson Act
from becoming subject to the laws of the State enacted in
pursuance of its reserved powers for the protection of the
health and welfare of its people.
When the transportation of such articles has reached its
termination, and the articles have been tendered to the "consignee, or they have been held for such reasonable time in
the usual course of business as would permit a delivery, the
act of transportation ceases to be interstate commerce; and if
the common carrier then stores them and afterwards delivers
them, or accepts C. 0. D. charges, it is subject to the state
law.

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. KENTUCKY.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The testimony showed that the package, containing a gallon
of whiskey, was shipped from Cincinnati, Ohio, to George
Meece, at .East Bernstadt, Kentucky. The transaction was
therefore one of interstate commerce, and within the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress. The Kentucky statute is obviously an attempt to regulate such interstate commerce.
This is hardly questioned by the Court of Appeals, and is
beyond dispute under the decisions of this court.
In Vance v. Vandercook Company (No. 1), 170 U. S. 438,
444, Mr. Justice White, delivering the opinion of the court,
said:
"Equally well established is the proposition that the right
to send liquors from one State into another, and the act of
sending the same, is interstate commerce, the regulation
whereof has been committed by the Constitution of the United States to Congress, and, hence, that a state law' which
denies such. a right, or substantially interferes with or hampers
the same, is in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States."
In Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412, 426, it was held that the
Wilson Act "was not intended to and did not cause the power
of the State to attach to an interstate commerce shipment,
whilst the merchandise was in transit under such shipment,
and until its arrival at the point of destination and delivery
there to the consignee."
The Court of Appeals sustained the judgment upon these
facts: Meece testified that he had not ordered the whiskey;
that he was not expecting any from Cincinnati, but, on going
with his brother to the company's office at East Bernstadt,
was told that it was there awa: .. Ig him; that he requested
the agent to hold it until the succeeding Saturday, when he
would come, pay for and take it away; and that on that day
he did' so, _paying $3.85 for tb- hiskey, the express charges

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

having been prepaid at Cincinnati. The court held that, by
reason of the retention of the package by the agent, the company ceased to hold it as carrier, and had become a mere bailee
.or warehouseman; that, therefore, the statute, as applied to
the transaction, was not a regulation of commerce; and, further, that as Meece had not ordered the whiskey there was no
contract for the sale of it in Cincinnati, but only by the company at East Bernstadt, in Kentucky; that while there was
'no testimony showing that the company's agent at Cincinnati
knew that the whiskey had not been ordered by Meece, yet
its agent in Kentucky was so informed, and, therefore, the
company 'was possessed, through its agent, of knowledge
that there was no interstate transaction, and with that knowledge sold the whiskey to Meece. But that the agent consented
to hold the whiskey until Saturday did not destroy the character of the transaction as one of interstate commerce is settled
by the recent case of Heyman v. Southern Railway Company,
203 U. S.270. In that case whiskey had been forwarded to a
party in Charleston, South .Carolina, and after its arrival at
Charleston was placed in-the warehouse of the railroad company by its agent and there seized by constables, asserting
their right so to do under the dispensary law of South Carolina.
The point was made and sustained by the Supreme Court of
the State of Georgia, in which State an action had been brought
against the company for the value of the goods, that when
the goods were placed in the warehouse the carrier was thenceforward liable only as a warehouseman. In passing upon this
contention we said (p. 276):
"As the general principle is that goods moving in interstate
commerce cease to be such commerce only after delivery and
,sale in the original -package, and as the settled rule is-that the
Wilson law was not an abdication of the power of Congress
to regulate interstate commerce, since that law simply affects
an incident of such commerce by allowing the State power
to attach after delivery and before sale, we are not concerned
with whether, under the law of any. particular State, the

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. KENTUCKY.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

liability of a railroad company as carrier ceases and becomes
that of a warehouseman on the goods reaching their ultimate
destination before notice and before the expiration of a reasonable time for the consignee to receive the goods from the
carrier. For, whatever may be the divergent legal rules
in the several States concerning the precise time when the
liability of a carrier as such in respect to the carriage of goods
ends, they cannot affect the general principle as to when an
interstate shipment ceases to be under the protection of the
commerce clause of the Constitution, and thereby comes under the control of the state authority."
With reference to the testimony as to the knowledge by the
company of the fact that the whiskey had not been ordered
by the consignee, it is sufficient to say that the averment in
the indictment is that the express company was engaged in
the business of a common carrier of packages, etc., and that
the shipment and delivery were made and done in the usual
course of its business. This excludes necessarily the assumption that the transaction was one of sale by the express company at East Bernstadt, and of course the company was under no obligation to offer testimony in support of that which
the State admitted to be the fact.
We do not mean to intimate that an express company may
not also be engaged in selling liquor in a State contrary to
its laws, or that the fact that the consignee did not order a
shipment might not be evidence for a jury to consider upon
the question whether the company was not, in addition to
its express business, also selling liquor contrary to the statutes.
It is enough to hold, as we do, that under the averments of
this indictment such testimony is immaterial. It is, of course,
a question of fact whether a carrier is confining itself strictly
to its business as a carrier, or participating in illegal sales.
The consignor alone may be trying to evade the statute. He
may forward the liquors in the expectation that the consignee
will, when informed of their arrival, take and pay for them.
So the fact that there is no previous order by the consignee

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

may not be conclusive of the carrier's' wrongdoing, but still
it is entitled to consideration in determining that question.
Much as we may sympathize with the efforts to put a stop
to the sales of intoxicating liquors, in defiance of the policy
of a State we are not at liberty to recognize any rule which
will nullify or tend to weaken the power Vested' by the Constitution in Congress over interstate commerce.
The judgmeht of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky is reversed
and the case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented in this case and in the
two succeeding cases. See p. 141, post.:

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO-THE COURT OF APPEALS" OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 332.

Argued April 17, 18, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.

Decided on authority of Adams Express Company v. Kentucky, ante, p. 129.

THE facts are stated in

the opinion.

*Mr. Lawrence Maxwell Jr., and.Mr. Edmund F. Trabue,
with whom Mr. Joseph S. Graydon was on the brief, for
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Napoleon B. Hays, Attorney General of the State of

Kentucky, with whom Mr. Charles H. Morris was on the brief,
for defendant inerror.

'

MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

This case differs from the preceding in the fact that it was
tried by the court without a jury. In all other respects it is
1 For abstracts of arguments see ante,.p. 131 et seq.

