GRAFTON v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Syllabus.

only in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or
the defendant. The motion to remand was denied, and Wisner
applied to this court for a writ of mandamus which was subsequently awarded.
In the present case the removal was granted and sustained
on the ground that there was a controversy between the removing defendant and plaintiff, which could be fully determined as between them without the presence of the other defendants. That being so, the suit might have been brought.
originally in the Circuit Court against the railroad company
as sole defendant.
If the ruling of the Circuit Pourt was erroneous, as is contended, but which we do not intimate, it may be reviewed
after final decree on appeal or error. Missouri Pacific Railway
Company v. Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556, 582.
Rule discharged; petition dismissed.

HOMER E. GRAFTON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR v. THE
UNITED STATES.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 358.

Argued March 18, 19, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.

The prohibition of double jeopardy is applicable to all criminal prosecutions in the Philippine Islands.
A person is not put in second jeopardy unless his prior acquittal or conviction waf by a court having jurisdiction to try him for the offense

charged.
The judgment of a court-martial having jurisdiction to try an officer or
soldierfor a crime is entitled to the same finality and conclusiveness as
to the issues involved as the judgment of a civil court in cases within its
jurisdiction is entitled to.
General courts-martial may take cognizance, under the 62d article of war,
of all crimes, not capital, committed against public law by an officer or
soldier of the Army within the limits of the territory within which he is
serving; and, while this jurisdiction .is not exclusive, but only concur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

206 U. S.

rent with that of the civil courts, if a court-martial first acquires jurisdiction its judgment cannot be disregarded by the civil courts for mere
error, or for any reason not affecting the jurisdiction of the court ren-.
dering it.
The same acts constituting a crime against the United States cannot,, after
the acquittal or conviction of the accused in a court of competent jurisdiction, be made the basis of a second trial of the accused for that crime
in the same or in another court, civil or military, of the same government.
Although the same act when committed in a State might constitute two
distinct offenses, one against the United States and the other against
the State, for both 6f which the accused might be tried, that rule does
not apply to acts committed in the Philippine Islands. The government
of a State does not derive its powers from the United States, while that
of the Philippine Islands does owe its existence wholly to the United
States.
A soldier in the army, having been acquitted of the crime of homicide,
alleged to have been committed 'by him in the Philippine Islands, by a
nilitary court-martial of competent jurisdiction proceeding under au.
thority of the United States, cannot be subsequently tried for the same
offense in a civil court exercising authority in that Territory;-

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Clarence S. Nettles and Mr. John H. Atwood, with whom

Mr. Frederic D. McKenney was on the brief, for plaintiff in
error:
The plaintiff in error, having been tried and acquitted of
the alleged homicide by a lawfully constituted court, having.
jurisdiction of his..person'and the subject matter of the offense;
his second trial unlawfully put him in jeopardy of punishment
a second time for tie same offense, in direct violation of the
Fifth, Amendment, and sec. 5 of the Act of July 1, 1902 (32
Stat. at L. 691, chap. 1369).
.Our courts have' always .guarded,. with jealous care, the
constitutional right. of accused persons not to be twice placed,
in. jebpardy for the same 'offense. Ex Parte Lange, 18 Wall.
205; 1 Bishop on ,Criminal Law, § 979; The Abbotts/ord, 92
U. S,440; Coleman v. Tennessee, 97 U. S-. 509; People v. Minor,
i44 Illinois, 308; State v. Bowen, 45 Minnesota, 145; State v.
Lange, 96 Tennessee, 668.

GRAFTON v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Plaintiff in error was tried and acquitted by a lawfully constituted court, having jurisdiction of his person and the subject matter, upon a valid indictment, upon the same, offense
alleged in the indictment upon which he was tried in the court
below. Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 123; Exparte'Davidson,
21 Fed. Rep. 620; Ex parte Reed, 100 U. S.13; In re McVey,
23 Fed. Rep. 878.
The charge and specifications upon which the plaintiff was
arraigned and tried in the general court-martial, conformed
to the pleading and practice of military courts, was sufficient
to support a valid judgment, and cannot be attacked in a
collateral proceeding.
Neither this court, nor any other civil tribunal hM jurisdiction or authority to adjudicate any question relative to the
sufficiency of the pleading and practice of courts-martial,
or to undertake any inquiry s to the proceedings of a courtmartial, except for- th6 purpose of ascertaining two things:
First, whether the court had jurisdiction of the person and the
subject matter of the offense. Second, whether, 'having jurisdiction and having arrived at its conclusions, the sentence
imposed is warranted by law. A court-martial, as a legally
constituted court; having the jurisdiction, has the right to
determine for itself the practice and procedure under the
Articles of War, and whether or not the charges and specifications are properly pleaded. In re McVey, 23 Fed. Rep. 878.
The offense with which the plaintiff is charged, and for the
commission of which-he now stands -in jeopardy of punishment,
is in fact identical with that of which he was acquitted by the
judgment of the general court-martial. 2 Am. & Eng. Enc. of
Law, 247; Hoffman v. State, 20 Maryland, 425; Holt v. State,
38 Georgia, 137; State-v. Cooper, 13 N. J. Law, 361; State v.
Cameron, 50 Tennessee, 78; Wilson v. State, 24 Connecticut,
57; Roberts v. State, 14. Georgia, 8; State v. Keogh, 13 La.. Ann.
243.
On the rule of construction established by these authorities
to the facts of this case no doubt remains as to the identity

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

206 U. S.

of the offense alleged in the. indictment with that for which
the plaintiff was tried by the court-martial.. It is the same
transaction. The two cases rest upon the same facts, and have
been testified to by the same witnesses. The accused is the
same, and he is charged with -the homicide of the same person,
at the same time and place, and under the same circumstances.
What more could be asked to establish the identity of the
transaction set forth in the two records?
The Solicitor fGeneral for defendant in error:
The acquittal by court-martial was no bar to the civil
prosecution. The precise point has never been adjudged by
this court. 1E pari Mason, 105 U. S. 696, 699. The military
and civil jurisdictions are not mutually exclusive;, the former
takes cognizance of 'the offense, against the-military organization and discipline, the latter of'the crime against the whole
community. An officer or soldier-of the army who comffiits an
act anywhere within the territorial jurisdiction. of the 'United
States, which is criminal both by the military and the general.
law, is subject to trial by the latter in preferenceto the foriner.
An act punishable by the laws of the land is to be punished-,
according to those laws, that. is, by the 'competent ordinary,
tribunals, of the State or Terxjtory in which the offense was
committed. Our Articles of War are based on the British
Mutiny Acts, which have always provided' in terms or in sub-.
stance that they shall not be construed to exempt any officer
or. soldier whatsoever' from being proceeded against by due
course of law. 4 Geo. IV, c. 81, § 17; 3 .&4 Will. IV, c. 5, § 45;
3 & 4 Vict. c..37, § 5; see also Tytler's Essay on Military Law,
153, 154; Winthrop's Military Law, 2d ed' 124, 396, 1076; 7
Op. A. G. 561.
P. ractically, .as to all acts of ordinary violence committed
within the interior of the army, the civil authority leaves to
the military complete and exclusive jurisdiction. But a felony
is distinguishable; whether committed within. or without the
army. ..'In th case of murder it is. the right of the State to

GRAFTON r. UNITED STATES.
206 V. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error

move the courts to apply, the laws of the land to the criminal.
6Op. A. G. 413, 506; see also United States v. Amy, cited in Negro
Ann Hammond v. State, 14 Maryland, 135; Moore v. Illinois,"
14 How. 13; Fox v. State of Ohio, 5 How. 434; United States v.
Marigold, 9 How. 569. When a man stands in the particular
dual relation of criminal liability to a court-martial and to
the civil courts, he may be punished by each without involving
double jeopardy, and no distinction can be drawn between
different offenses -against different sovereigns and different
offenses against the same sovereign. United S~ates v. Clark,
31 Fed. Rep. 710; United States v. Cashiel,-Fed..Casi14,744;
Morey v. Comm'lth, 108 Massachusetts, 433, cited in Carter v.
McClaughry, 183 U. S. 365; United States v. Cruikshank, 92
U. S. 542; Moore v. People, 14 How. 17; United States v.
Barnhart, 22 Fed. Rep. 285; State v. Taylor, 133 N. Car.
755; Abbott v. State, 75 N. Y. 602; Campbell v. People, 109
Illinois, 565. The military authorities establish these doc-trines as a matter of existing practice. Benet, Military Laws
Courts-Martial, 100, 102; Dig. Op. J. A. G., par. 306, 309,
p. 92; id. par..102, p. 38; id. par. 148, p. 48.
The Court of First Instance had jurisdiction. However the
cases may stand as between national and local jurisdiction,
civil or criminal, over a reservation of the United States in
one of. the original States or in. a State subsequently admitted,
there is no doubt of the plenary power of Congress anywhere
in a Territory. United States v. Cornell, 2 Mason, 60; People v.
Godfrey, 17 Johns. 225; Comm'lth v. Young, Brightly (Pa.),
302; Fort Leavenworth R..R. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525; United
States v. Stahl, 1 Woolw. 192; United States v. Ward, 1 Woolw,
1; Painter v. Ives, 4 Nebraska, 122; Marion v. State, 16 Nebraska, 349; McCracken v. Todd, 1 Kansas, 148; Clay v. State,
4 Kansas, 49; United States v. McBratney, 104 U. S. 621;
Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556; United States v. Kagama,
118 U. S. 375; In re Wilson, 140 U. S. 575; Mormon Church v.
U. S., 136 U. S. 1.
Congress has created the territorial courts, and authorized

-?and

VOL. ccvi-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Frror.

206 U.S.

and approved their general civil and criminal jurisdiction.
R. S. Title XXIII, c. 1, 2, especially §§ 1851, 1868, 1895, 1910,
1925; Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 560; Ex parte Gon-Shay-Ee,
130 U. S. 343; Franklin v. United States, 1 Colorado, 35. Congress has not distinguished between crimes committed by or
against military persons or between crimes so committed on
or off a military reservation. In defining and punishing
crimes subject to exclusive Federal jurisdiction, Congress
had in mind the case of a Federal reservation in a State and
not the case of a Territory in general, or of a reservation within
a Territory. As Congress has exclusive jurisdiction everywhere in a Territory, and has made no exception regarding
a military reservation, it would seem that Congress intends
the jurisdiction over ordinary crimes to be exercised by the
local courts.
There is competent civil judicature in the Philippines established by the legislature. During the war and insurrection
there was at first a suspension of the civil courts, but they were
gradually restored with their former jurisdiction, first on the
civil and then on the criminal side. G. 0. 58, 1, Pub. Laws
Phil. Com. pp. 1082, 1095; Act of June 11, 1901, id. 252, 262;
Act of August 5,1901, id. 375; Act of May 16, 1902, id. 963.
The civil government has passed laws in aid of. the military
control of reservations for military uses, but they plainly
assert the civil jurisdiction so far as it does not interfefe with
military administration or use. Act of November 24, 1902,
2 Pub. Laws, 157; Act of Sept. 3, 1903, 3 id. 9; act of April 28,
1904, id. 327. There is no substantial distinction between the
case of a military reservation in the Philippines and in an
organized Territory of the United States. Congress has directed that all laws passed by the Philippine government shall
be reported to Congress, and reserved the power to annul the
same. Act of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 691.
The reservation by the President of lands in the Philippines
for military purposes merely subjects them to the proprietary
control of the National Government, and does not withdraw

GRAFTON v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

339

Argument for Defendant in Error.

them from the operation of laws passed by the commission "nor
from -the jurisdiction of the regularly constituted authorities.
1 Op. A. G. Phil. I, 326; id. 332; 4 0. G. 61: No reservation
of exclusive jurisdiction, can be claimed under the order of
reservation itself. G. 0. 34, War Dept. Oct. 13, 1903.
Finally, it is found here also that the existing military law
of the United States holds that territorial courts take j urisdiction of a crime committed on a reservation. Dig. Op. J. A. G.
par. 96, p. 36; td. par. 101, p. 38; id. par. 2437, p.'687; id. par.
2439, p. 687.
Plaintiff in error Grafton was not entitled to be indicted by a
grand jury or tried by a petit jury. It is well settled that the
Sixth Amendment to the Constitution does not apply to prosecutions by a State. Hurtado v. Califlbrnia, 110 U. S: 516;
Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581, and cases cited. The right to
trial by jury has not been extended to our territorial possessions.
Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S, 197; Dorr v. United States,
195 U. S. 138, 149.
The claim is made here that because defendant was in the
Philippines in pursuanice of his duty by virtue of military
orders, the decision in the Dorr case does not apply. But anyone who violates law is to be tried by the law violated, whether
in a State or a Territory or a possession of the United States.
In re Ross, 140 U. S. 453. No objection can be predicated on
the literal restriction of the 59th Article of War to "any offense
against the person or property of any citizen of the United
States." The Ross case is authority for the conclusion that the
law means not only citizens but "also all who though not
strictly citizens, are
" equally entitled to the care
and protection of the Government." 140 U. S. pp. 475, 476,
citing-1 Hale's Pleas of the Crown, 542. While citizens and
others within the United States are entitled to trial by jury
in criminal cases arising under the Constitution and laws of
the United States, neither citizens, nor others, whether in the
military service or not, are so entitled before a tribunal created
by or under the authority of the United States, either in a

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

foreign country or in a territorial possession of the United
States. 140 U. S. p. 464, citing Cook v. United States, 138
U. S. 157, 181.
If soldiers in the Philippines are to be tried in accordance
with the constitutional provisions, but other citizens and the
native inhabitants have no such right, there would be a violation of the guarantee of equal protection of the laws. Sec.
5, Philippine Government Act.
Plaintiff in error, Grafton, was not in the performance of his
military duty, and is not justifiable. This was not the case of
an escaping felon. Drury v. Lewis, 200 U. S. 1, 8. Unless the
accused has reasonable ground of apprehension at the time,
the justification of self-defense will fail. The rule that one
may pursue his adversary until he has secured himself from
all danger, and may even kill him in so doing (1 East P. C. 271),
applies only where the aggressor is retreating in order to gain
advantage so as to renew the conflict; the right to pursue and
kill, a retreating assailant ceases as soon as the necessity for
defense has ceased and the danger is no longer immediate and
impending. 4 B1. Com. 185; Morgan v. State, 67 S. W. Rep.
420; Johnson v. State, 50 S. W. Rep. 343; People v. Hecker,
109 California, 451; Luckinbill v. State, 52 Arkansas, 45; Qregon v. Conally, 3 Oregon, 69; State v. Scott, 4 Ired. 409; State v.
Harris, 4 Jones, 190; Dill v. State, 25 Alabama, 15; Dyson v.
State, 26 Mississippi, 362; Holmes v. State, 23 Alabama, 24;
Carroll v. State, 23 Alabama, 33. The act was plainly deliberate
heke, because Grafton knew, or ought to have known under
the circumstances, that he need not shoot again, and the
killing was unnecessary if not wanton.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

THE writ of error brings up for review a judgment of the
Supreme Court. of the Philippine Islands, affirming a judgment of the Court of First Instance in the Province of Iloilo,
by which the plaintiff in error, Grafton, was adjudged guilty

GRAFTON v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of homicide as defined by the Penal Code of the Philippines,

and sentenced to imprisonment for twelve years and one day.
The history of this criminal prosectition, as disclosed by.
the record, is as follows:
Homer E. Grafton, a private in the Army of the United
States, was tried before a general court-martial convened in
1904. by Brigadier General Carter, commanding the Department of the Visayas, Philippine Islands, upon the following
charge and specifications: "Charge: Violation of the -62nd
Article of War: Specification I. In that Private Homer E.
Grafton, Company G, 12th Infantry, being-a sentry on post,.
did unlawfully, willfully, and feloniqusly kill Florentino Castro,
a Philippino, by shooting him with a U. S. magazine rifle,
caliber .30. This at Buena Vista. Landing, Guimaras, P. I.,
July 24th 1904. Specification II. In that Private Homer E
Grafton, Company G, 12th Infantry, being a sentry on post,
did unlawfully, willfully, and feloniously kill Felix Villanueva,
a Philippino, by shooting him with a U. S. magazine rifle,
caliber .30. This at Buena Vista Landing, Guiiaras, P. I.,
July 24th 1904."
By the 58th Article of War it is provided: "In time of war,
insurrection, or rebellion, larceny, robbery, burglary, arson,
mayhem, manslaughter, murder, assault and battery with
an intent to kill, wounding, by shooting or stabbing, with an
-intent to commit murder, rape, or assault and battery with an
intent to commit rape, shall be punishable by the sentence of
a general coirt-martial, when committed-by persons in the
military service of the United States, and the punishment
in any such case shall not be less than the punishment provided, for the like offense, by the laws of the State, Territory,
or district in which such offense may have been committed."
The 62d Article of War is in these words: "All crimes not
capital, and all disorders and neglects which officers and
soldiers may be guilty of to the prejudice of good order and
military discipline, though not mentioned in the foregoing
articles of war, are to be taken cognizance of by a general, or a

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

regimental, garrison, or field officers' court-martial according
to the nature and degree of the offense, and punished at the
discretion of such court."
The accused pleaded not guilty to each specification as well
as to the charge. At the trial he made the following admission
in writing: "I admit that on July 24th, 1904, I was a member
of a detachment of Company G, 12th Infantry, on duty at
Buena Vista Landing, Guimaras, P. I.; that on July 24th, 1904,
I was regularly detailed on guard and was a member of the
first relief. That I was on post between the hours of 2 and
4 p. m. In the execution of my duty I shot two male Philippinos with a U. S. magazine rifle, caliber .30."
The court found the soldier not guilty as to each specification
and not guilty of the charge. His acquittal was approved
by the Department Commander on August 25th, 1904, and
he was released from confinement and restored to duty. It
appeared in proof that the accused was of' excellent character;
and it is stated in the opinion of the Supreme Court of the
Philippines that, before holding the court-martial, the Department Commander offered to submit the case to the Court cf
First Instance of the Province, but it did not appear what
action was taken by the judge of that court, in reference to
that offer.
On the twenty-eighth day of November, 1904, the prosecuting
attorney of the Province of Iloilo, Philippine Islands, filed a
criminal information or complaint in the name of the United
Stdtes, in the Court of First Itstance' of that Province, asfollows:. "The subscriber accuses Homer E. Grafton of the
crime of assassination, committed in the manner following:
That on the 24th of July, 1904, and in the barrio of Santo
Rosario, within the jurisdiction of the municipality of Buena
Vista,. Guimaras Island, province of Iloilo, Philippine Islands,
the said accused, with illegal intention and maliciously and
without justification and with treachery and deliberate pre.meditation killed Felix Villanueva in the manner following:
That on said day and in said barrio the said accused, Homer E.

GRAFTON v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

,343

Opinion of the Court.

Grafton, with the rifle that he carried at the time, known as
the United States magazine rifle c. .30, fired a hot directly
at Felix Villanueva, causing with said shot a serious and
necessarily fatal wound, and in consequence of said wound the
aforesaid Felix Villaneuva died immediately after the infliction
thereof, in violation of the law."
When the above information was filed, as well as when the
court-martial convened, the Philippines Penal Code provided
as follows:
"Art. 402. He who shall kill his father, mother, or child,
whether legitimate or illegitimate, or any other of his ascendants or descendants or his spouse, shall be punished as a parricide, with the penalty of cadena-perpetua to death.
"Art. 403. He who, without being included in the preceding
article, shall kill any person, is guilty of assassination if the
deed is attended by any of the following circumstances: (1)
With treachery; (2) For price or promise of reward; (3) By
means of flood, fire, or poison; (4) With deliberate premeditation; (5) With vindictiveness, by deliberately and inhumanly
increasing the suffering of the person attacked. A person
guilty of assassination shall be punished with the penalty of
cadena temporal in its maximum degree to death.
"Art. 404. He who, without being included in the provisions
of article 402, shall kill another without the attendance of
any of the circumstances specified in the foregoing -article
is guilty of homicide. A person guilty of homicide shall be
punished with the penalty of reclusi6n tenporal."
At the trial in the Court of First Instafce the accused interposed a demurrer, alleging that that court had no jurisdiction
to try him for the offense charged for the following reasons:
The acts constituting the alleged offense were committed
within the limits of a military reservation of the United States
and by a soldier duly enlisted in the Army of the United
States, in the line of duty; the Court of First Instance of the
Philippine Islands had no jurisdiction of the persons of officers
or enlisted men of the United States Army for offenses com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

mitted by them in the performance of military duty; such
courts were not constitutional courts as contemplated by the
3d Article of the Constitution of the United States, and were
without jurisdiction to try causes of which such constitutional
courts have exclusive jurisdiction; the courts of the Philippine
Islands could not deprive the accused of his constitutional
privilege of trial by jury; and no court other than a military
tribunal, constituted by the authority of the United States,
could try the accused upon an indictment which had not'been
found or presented by a grand jury.
The demurrer also stated that if the court held that it had
jurisdiction to try the accused, then he pleaded, in bar of the
proceedings against him, the judgment of the general courtmartial acquitting him of the offense of which he was found.
guilty in the Court of First Instance.
The demurrer and plea were both overruled, the trial court
holding that it had jurisdiction to try the accused and that
the plea of jeopardy based on his trial by court-martial was
insufficient, in that the military court could not legally have
taken cognizance of the crime of assassination charged in the
information, but only of a violation of the 62d Article of War.
A trial was then had in the Court of First Instance before
:the judge thereof, without a jury, and resulted in a judgment
declaring Grafton guilty .of "an infraction of article 404 of
said Penal Code, and of the crime of homicide, in killing the
.said Felix Villanueva, at the time and place and in the manner
hereinbefore stated, and- in view of the extenuating circumstances before remarked upon, he is sentenced by the court to
imprisonment in such :prison as the law directs, for the term
of twelve years and oxie day, it being the minimum term of
the ,mimimum degree of reclusi6n temporal which is the penalty
for homicide, and to pay the costs of thd prosecution, and to
suffer all the other accessories of said sentence." The case was
carried to the Supreme Court of the Philippines, where the
judgment was affirmed by a divided court. The plea of double
jeopardy was overruled by that court and three of the seven

GRAFTON v. UNITED STATES.
206 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

judges were of-opinion that, under the facts proven-at the trial,
the accused should have been acquitted.
The principal contention of the accused is that his acquittal
by the court-martial forbade his being agin tried in the civil
court for the same offense. He bases this contention, in part,
upon that clause of the Fifth Amendment of the. Constitution,
providing, "Nor shall any person be subject for .the same
offense to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb;" and, in
part, upon the act of Congress of July 1st,, 1902, providing
-temporarily for the administration of the affairs of civil govern-.
ment in the Philippine Islands, and which act declared that
"no person for. the same offense shall be twice put in jeopardy.
of punishment." 32 Stat. 691. That the prohibition of double
jeopardy is applicable to'all criminal prosecutions . in the
Philippines was settled upon full consideration in the recentcase of Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100, 124, 126, 129
130,. in which it was*held that by force of the above act of
.Congress such prohibition was carried to the Philippines and
became the law of those Islands. In the same case it was.
said-what may be repeateds applicable to the present casethat "this case does not call for a discussion of the limitations
of such power [the power of Congress] nor require determination
of the question whether the jeopardy clause became the law
of the Islands after the ratification of the treaty without
Congressional action, as the act of Congress made it the law
of these possessions when the accused was tried and convicted."
We assume as indisputable, on principle and authority,
that before a person can be said to have been put in jeopardy
of life or limb the court in which he was acquitted or convicted
must have had jurisdiction to try him for the offense charged..
It is alike indisputable that if a court-martial has jurisdiction
to try. an. officer or soldier for a crime, its judgment will be
accorded the finality and conclusiveness as to the issues involved which attend the judgments of a civil court-in a case
of which it may legally take cognizance. In Ex parte Reed,

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

100 U. S. 13, 23, the court, referring to a court-martial, said:
"The court had jurisdiction over the person and the case.
It is the organism provided by law and clothed with the dutyof administering justice in this class of cases. Having had
such jurisdiction, its proceedings cannot be collaterally impeached for any mere error or irregularity, if there were such,
committed within the sphere of.its authority. Its judgments,
when approved as required, rest on the same basis, and are
surrounded by the same considerations which give conclusiveness to the judgments of other. legal tribunals, including as
well the lowest as the highest, under like circumstances. The
exercise of discretion, within authorized limits, cannot be
assigned for error and made the subject of review by an appellate court."
In Ex parte Mason, 105 U. S. 696, 699, the question arose
whether a court-martial could lawfully sentence an officer of
the Army, charged with the offense of attempting to kill a
prisoner in the custody of the United States, to be imprisoned
at hard labor in the penitentiary. The accused was tried under
the 62d Article of War. The court said: "He has offended
both against .the civil and the military law. As the proper
steps were not taken to have him proceeded against by the civil
authorities, it was the clear duty of the military to bring him
to trial under that jurisdiction. Whether, after. trial by the
court-martial, he can be again tried in the civil -courts is a
question we need not now consider. It is enough if the courtmartial had jurisdiction to proceed, and what has beendone.is
within the powers of that jurisdiction." It was objected, in
that case, that the sentence was in excess of what the law
allowed. The court referred to the 97th Article.of War, which
provided that "No person in the military service shall, under
the sentence of a court-martial, be punished by confinement in
a penitentiary, unless the. offense of which he may be convicted would, by some statute of the United States or by some
statute of the State, Territory or District in which such offense
may be committed, or by the common law, as the same exists

-

GRAFTON v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

° Opinion of the Court.

in such State; Territory, or District, subject such convict to
such imprisonment." It then proceeded: "Under this article,
when the offense is one not recognized by the laws regulating
civil society, there can be no punishment by confinement in a
penitentiary. The same is true when the offense,, though
recognized by the civil authorities, is not punishable by the
civil courts in that way. But when the act charged as 'conduct to the prejudice of good order and military discipline' is
actually a crime against society which is punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary, it seems to us clear that a
court-martial is authorized to inflict that kind of punishment.
The act done is a civil crime, and the trial is for that act.
The proceedings are had in a court-martial because the offender is personally amenable to that jurisdiction, and what
he did was not only criminal according to the laws of the land,
but prejudicial to the good order and discipline of the army
to vhich he belonged. The sixty-second article provides that
the offender, when convicted, shall be punished at the discretion of the court, and the ninety-seventh article does .no more
than prohibit the court from sentencing him to imprisonment
in a penitentiary in a case where,. if he were tried for the same
act in the civil courts, such imprisonment could not be inflicted." In Carter v. Roberts, 177 U. S. 496, 498, which was
a case of the punishment under the judgment of a general
court-martial of an officer of. the Army,- the court, after observing that every officer, before-entering on the duties of
his-office, subscribes to the Articles of War, enacted by Congress and places himself within the power of courts-martial to
pass on any offense Which he may have committed in contravention of them, said: "Courts-ln-artial are lawful tribunals,
with authority to finally determine any case over. which they
have jurisdiction, and their proceedings,. when confirmed as
provided, are not open to review by the civil tribunals, except
for the purpose of ascertaining Wchether the military court
had jurisdiction 'of the person and subject matter, and whether,
though having such jurisdiction, it had exceeded its powers

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

in the sentence pronounced." This language was repeated
in Carterv. McClaughry, 183 U. S. 365, 380.
It thus appears to be settled that the civil tribunals cannot
disregard the judgments of a general court-martial against
an accused officer or soldier, if such court had jurisdiction to
try the offense set forth in the charge and specifications; this,
notwithstanding the civil court, if it had first taken hold of
the case, might have tried the accused for the same offense or
even one of higher grade arising out of the same facts.
We are now to inquire whether the court-martial in the
Philippines had jurisdiction to try Grafton for the offenses
charged against him. It is unnecessary to enter upon an extended discussion of that question; for, it is entirely clear that
the court-martial had jurisdiction to try, the accused upon the
charges preferred against him. The 62d' article of War, in
express words, confers upon a general, or a regimental garrison,
or field officers' court-martial, according to the nature and
degree of the offense, jurisdiction to try "all crimes" not
capital, committed in time of peace by an officer or soldier
of the Army. The crimes referred to in that article manifestly
embrace those not capital, committed by officers or soldiers
of the Army in violation of public law as enforced by the civil
power. No crimes committed by officers or soldiers of the
Army are excepted by the above article from the jurisdiction
thus conferred upon courts-martial, except those that are
capital in their nature. While, however, the jurisdiction of
general courts-martial extends to all crimes, not capital, committed against public law by an officer or soldier of the Army
within the limits of the territory in which he is serving, this
jurisdiction is not exclusive, but only concurrent with that of
the civil courts. Of such offenses courts-martial may take
cognizance under the 62d Article of War, and, if they first
acquire jurisdiction, their judgments cannot be disregarded
by the civil courts for mere error or for any reason not affecting
the jurisdiction of the military court.
We are next to inquire whether having been acquitted by a

GRAFTON v. UNITED STATES.
,206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

court-martial of the crime of homicide as defined by the Penal
Code of the Philippines, could Grafton be subjected thereafter
to trial for the same offense in a civil tribunal deriving its
authority, as did the court-martial, from the same government,
namely, that of the United States? That he will be punished
for the identical offense of which he has been acquitted, if the
judgment of the civil court, now before us, be affirmed, is
beyond question, because, as appears from the record, the
civil court adjudged him guilty and sentenced him to imprisonment specifically for "an infraction of Article 404 of said Penal
Code and of the crime of homicide."
It was said by the trial judge that the offense chargedagainst
Grafton in the civil court was "assassination," which offense,
he said, was punishable under section 403 of the Philippines
Penal Code by death, and of which crime the military court
could not, under the Articles of War, have taken cognizance;
whereas, the offense for which he was tried by court-martial
was only homicide as defined by section 404 of the Penal
Code; But if not guilty of homicide as defined in the latter
section of the Penal Code-and such was the finding of the
court-martial-he could not, for the same acts and under the
same evidence, be guilty of assassination as defined in the
fQrmer section of the Code. Looking at the matter in another
way, the above suggestion by the trial judge could only mean
that simply because, speaking generally, the civil court has
jurisdiction to try an officer or soldier of the Army for the crime
of assassination, it may yet render a judgment by which he
could be subjected to punishment for an offense included in
the charge of assassination, although of such lesser offense he
had been previously acquitted by another court of competent
jurisdiction. This view is wholly inadmissible. Upon this
general point the Supreme Court of the Philippines,
referring
to the. defense of former jeopardy, said: "The circumstance
that- the civil trial was for murder, a crime of which courtsmartial in time of peace have no jurisdiction, while the prior
military trial was for manslaughter only, does not defeat the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

defense on this theory. The identity of 'the offenses. is determined, not by their grade, but by their nature. One crime
may be a constituent part of the other. The criterion is,
Does the result of the first prosecution negative the facts
charged in the second? It is apparent that it does. The
acquittal of the defendant of the charge of manslaughter pronounces him guiltless of facts necessary to constitute murder and admits the plea of jeopardy." The offense, homicide or manslaughter, charged against Grafton was the unlawful killing of a named person. The facts which attended that
killing would show the degree of such offense, whether assassination of which the civil court might take cognizance if it acquired jurisdiction before the military court acted, or homicide
of which the military court could take cognizance if it acted
before the civil court did. If tried by the military court for
homicide as defined in the Penal Code, and acquitted on that
charge, the guaranty of exemption from being twice put in
jeopardy of punishment for the same offense would be of no
value to the accused, if on a trial for assassination, arising out
of the same acts,.he could be again punished for the identical
offense of which he had been previously acquitted.
In Chitty's Criminal Law, vol. 1, pp. 452, 455, 462, the author
says: "It is not in all cases necessary that. the two charges
should be precisely the same in point of degree, for it is sufficient, if an acquittal of the one would show that the defendant
could not have been guilty of the other. Thus a general acquittal of murder is a discharge upon an indictment for manslaughter upon the same person, because the latter charge was
included in the former, and if it had so. appeared on the trial
the defendant might have been convicted of the inferior offense;
and, on the other hand, an acquittal of manslaughter will
preclude a future prosecution for murder, for if he were innocent of the modified crime he could not be guilty of the same
fact, with the addition of malice and design." Mr. Bishop, in
his treatise on Criminal Law (7th ed.), § 1050, says: ."Itis not
necessary to establish the defense 'autrejois acquit' or 'con-

GRAFTON v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

vict' that the offense in each indictment should be the same
in name. If the transaction is the same, or if each rests upon
the same facts between the same parties, it is sufficient to make
good the defense." In Commonwealth v. Roby, 12 Pick. 503,
the court said: "Thus an acquittal on an indictment for murder will be a good bar to an indictment for manslaughter, and,
e converso, an acquittal on an indictment for manslaughter
will be a bar to a prosecution for murder; for in the first instance,
had the defendant been guilty, not of murder but of manslaughter, he would have been found guilty of the latter offense
upon that indictment; and in the second instance, since the
defendant is not guilty of manslaughter, he cannot be guilty
of manslaughter under circumstances of aggravation which
enlarge it into murder. 1 Stark. Cr. P1. (3d ed.) 322."
It must, then, be taken on the present record that an affirmance of the judgment of the civil court will subject the
accused to punishment for the same acts, constituting the
same offense as that of which he had been previously acquitted
by a military court having complete jurisdiction to try and
punish him for such offense. It is attempted to meet this view
by the suggestion that Grafton committed two distinct offenses
.- one against military law and discipline, the other against
the civil law which may prescribe the punishment for crimes
against organized society by whomsoever .those crimes are
committed-and that a trial for either offense, whatever its
result, whether acquittal or conviction, and even if the first
trial was in a court of competent jurisdiction, is no bar to a
trial in another court of the same government for the other
offense. We cannot assent to this view. It is, we think,
inconsistent with the principle, already announced, that a
general court-martial has, under existing statutes, in time of
peace, jurisdiction to try an officer or soldier of the Army
for any offense, not capital, which the civil law declares to be
a crime against the public. The express prohibition of double
jeopardy for the same offense means that wherever such
prohibition is applicable, either. by operation of the Consti.tu-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

tion or by action. of Congress, no person shall be twice put
in jeopardy of life or limb for the same offense. Consequently,
a civil court proceeding under the authority of the United
States cannot withhold from an officer or soldier of the Army
the full benefit of that guaranty, after he has been once tried
in a military court of competent jurisdiction. Congress, by
express constitutional provision, has the power to prescribe
rules for the government and regulation of the Army, but those
rules must be interpreted in connection with the prohibition
against a man's being put twice in jeopardy for the same
offense. The former provision must not be so interpreted as
to nullify the latter, If, therefore, a person be tried for an
offense in a tribunal deriving its jurisdiction and authority
from the United States and is acquitted or convicted, he cannot
again be tried for the same offense in another tribunal deriving
its- jurisdiction and authority from the United States. A
different interpretationfipds no sanction in the Articles of War;
for the 1023 Article of War (which is the same as Article 87,
adopted in 1806, 2 Stat. 369) declares that "no person"-referring, we take it, to persons in the Army-" shall be tried a
second time for the same offense." But we rest our decision
of this question upon the broad ground that. the same acts
constituting a crime against the United States cannot, after
the acquittal or convictionof the accused in a court of competent jurisdiction, be made the basis of a second trial of the
accused for that crime in the same or in another court, civil.
or military, of the same government. Congress has chosen,
in its discretion, to confer upon general courts-martial authority to try an officer or soldier for any crime, not capital,
committed by him in the territory in which he is serving.
When that was done the judgment of such military-court was
placed upon the same level as the judgments of other tribunals
when the inquiry arises whether an accused was, in virtue of
that judgment, put in jeopardy of life or limb. Any possible
conflict in these matters, between civil and military courts, can
be obviated either by withholding from courts-martial all

GRAFTON v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

authority to try officers or soldiers for crimes prescribed by
the civil power, leaving the civil tribunals to try such offenses,
or by investing courts-martial with exclusive jurisdiction to
try such officers and soldiers for all crimes, not capital.
In support of the view that the judgment of a military court
against an officer or soldier of the Army for acts' constituting
a crime against both the civil law and the military organization, is no bar to a second trial in the civil courts for the same
acts, we are referred to Fox v. Ohio, 5 How. 410, 435; United
States v. Marigold, 9 How. 560, and Moore v. State of Illinois,
14 How. 13, 19, 20. Nothing -said or determined in either of
those cases conflicts with the decision in this case. In the
above cases, especially inoMoore's case, the question was mooted
whether the same acts could be treated as crimes both against
the United States and a State. It was there suggested that a
person could not be punished by two governments on account
of or for the same act constituting crime, without violating
the Fifth Amendment. But -this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Grier, said: "An offense, in its legal signification, means
the transgression of a law. A man may be compelled to make
reparation in damages to the injured party, and
be liable
also to punishment for a breach of the public peace,
in consequence of the same act; and may be said, in common parlance,
to be twice punished for the same offense. Every citizen of
the United States is also a citizen of a State or Territory. He
may- be said to owe allegiance to two sovereigns, and may be
liable to punishment for an infraction of the laws of either. The
-same act may be an offense or transgression of the laws of both.
Thus, an assault upon the marshal of the United States, and
hindering him in the execution of legal process, is a high offense
against the United States, for.which the perpetrator is liable
to punishment; and the same act may be also a gross breach
of the peace of the State, a riot, assault, -or a murder, and
subject the same person to a punishment,'under the State laws,
for a misdemeanor or felony. That either or both may (if
they see fit) punish such an offender, cannot be doubted.
VOL. ccvi-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

Yet it cannot be truly averred that the offender has been twice
punished for the same offense; but only that by one act he has
committed two offenses, for each of which he is justly punishable. He' could not plead the punishment by one in bar to a
conviction by the other; consequently, this court has decided,
in the case of Fox v. The State of Ohio, 5 How. 432, that a State
may punish the offense of uttering or passing false coin, as a
cheat or fraud practiced on its citizens; and, in the case of the
United States v. Marigold, 9 How. 560, that Congress, in the
proper e ercise of its authority, may punish the same act as
an offense against the United States."
It is clear that the cases above cited are not in poifit here.
The Government of the United States and the governments
of the several States in the exercise of their respective powers
move on different lines. The Government of the United States
has no power, except such as expressly or by necessary implication has been granted to it, while the several States may
exert such powers as are not inconsistent with the Constitution
of the United States nor with a republican form of government
and which have not been surrendered by them to the General
Government. An offense against the United States can only
be punished under its authority and in the tribunals created
by its laws; whereas, an offense against a State can be punished
only by its authority and in its tribunals. The same act, as
held in Moore's case, may constitute two offenses, one against
the United States and the other against a State. But these
things cannot be predicated of the relations between the United States and the Philippines. The Government of a State
does not derive its powers from the United States, while the
Government of the Philippines owes its existence wholly to the
United States, and its judicial tribunals exert all their powers
by authority of the United States. The -jurisdiction and
authority of the United States over that territory and its
inhabitants, for all legitimate purposes of governpnent, is
paramount. So that the cases holding that the same acts
committed in a State of the Union may constitute an offense

GRAFTON v. UNITED STATES.
206 U. S.

.355

Opinion of the Court.

against 'the United States and also a distinct offense against
the Sta e, do not apply here, where the two tribunals that
tried the accused exert all their powers under and by authority
of the same government-that of the United States.
It may. be difficult at times 'to determine whether the offense
for which an Officer or soldier is being tried is, in every substantial respect, the same offense for which he had been previously tried. We will not therefore attempt to formulate any
rule by which every-, conceivable case must be: solved. But
passing by all other questions discussed by counsel or which
might arise on the record, and restricting our decision to the
above question of double jeopardy, we adjudge that, consistently with the above act of 1902 and for the reasons stated,
the plaintiff in error, a soldier in the Army, having been acquitted of the crime of homicide, alleged to have been committed by him in the Philippines, ,by a military court of competent jurisdiction, proceeding under the authority .of the
United States, could not be subsequently tried for the same
offense in a civil court exercising authority in that Territory.
This is sufficient to dispose of the present case.
The judgment must be reversed, and the case remanded
with directions to the Supreme Court of the .Philippines to
order the complaint.or information in the Court of First Instance' to be dismissed and the plaintiff: discharged from custody.
It is so ordered.

