496 -,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

206 U. S.

Timber Culture Act, Carraher would have been in no position
to claim title as against the Government, he was occupying.
a hostile attitude toward the railway company, and, while

recognizing title in the United States, he expected to acquire,
title from it, had excluded all others from the use and occupation of the land and held under no other title. The Supreme
Court of Iowa has held that under such circumstances the
statute of. limttations of Iowa would run in his favor as against
the railroad company, and we find no reason to disturb that
conclusion. And for more than ten years that company was
insuch position under its grant that it might have maintained
an action in ejectment and asserted its title to the premises
as against Carraher.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme 'Court

of Iowa and it will be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER concurs in the judgment.

VICKSBURG v. VICKSBURG WATERWORKS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT. OF MISSISSIPPI.
,No. 275. Argued April 24, 1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.
A decree must be read in the light of the issues involved in the pleadings and
the, relief sought, and a decree in a suit brought by a water compaiiy
against a municipality to enjoin it from regulating rates does not finally
dispose of the right of the city to regulate rates under a law passed after
the contract went into effect and after the bill was filed.
A State may, in matters of proprietary rights, exclude itself and authorize its
municipal corpbrations to exclude themselves, from the right of regulation
of such matters as water rates.'
In view of the decisions of the highest court of Mississippi a municipality of
that State may, under a broad grant of legislative authority conferred
without restrictions or conditions, make a contract with a corporation,
fixing a maximum rate at which water should be supplied to the inhabi-

VICKSBURG v. VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. 497
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

tants of the city for a limited period, which in the absence of fraud or
convention, will be beyond legislative or municipal power to alter to the
prejudice of the other contracting party under the impairment of obligation clause of the Federal Constitution.
CASES involving the rights of -the-Vicksburg Waterworks
Company, under the contract made between the city of Vicksburg and the company, for furnishing the water supply of
the city, have been before this court in two preceding actions,
viz:- Vicksburg v. The Watrworks Company, 185 U.. S. 65;
and the Same v. Same, 202 U. S. 453.
Owing to the previous statements of the case, it is only
necessary to set out enough of the facts involved in the controversy now before us to make-plain the conclusions at which
we arrive.
The city of Vicksburg, by act of the legislature of Mississippi
(Laws of 1886, chap. 358, sec. 5, p. 695), was authorized
"to provide for the erection and maintenance of a system
of waterworks to supply said city with water, and to that end
to cbntract with a party or parties, who shall build and operate
waterworks."
Acting under this authority conferred by the legislature,
the city of Vicksburg made a.contract with Samuel R. Bullock & Company, their associates and assigns, for the supply
of water to the city and its inhabitants, which was contained
in the ordinance of November 18, 1886, section 13 thereof
providing that. "The said Samuel R. Bullock & Company, their associates,
successors or assigns, shall have the right to make all needful
rules and regulations governing the consumption of water,
the tapping of pipes and general operation of the works, and
to make such rates and charges for the use of said water as
they may determine, provided that such .rates and charges
shall not exceed 50 cents for each thousand. gallons of water."
The ordinance, by its terms, rAn for thirty years, and Bullock & Company, as provided in section 5 of the ordinance,
assigned the contract to the Vicksburg Water Supply-Company,
VOL. ccvi-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

and it was duly accepted by that company. The supply company put in the works and operated until August, 1900, when
the mortgage upon the property, including all the franchises
and contract rights, was foreclosed and purchased by a Mr.
Crumpler, who assigned all his rights and title to the Vicksburg Waterworks Company,. the appellee herein, which company has operated the works since.
The contract contained an .agreement to pay a stipulated
rental for certain hydrants for public use.
The legislature of Mississippi, on March 18, 1900, passed
an act authorizing the city to issue bonds and build a waterworks system of its own for the supply of the city and its
inhabitants, and on the third of July, 1900, an election was held
in the city under the statute, which resulted in a vote to'build
or buy a waterworks plant of its own.
The city repudiated any contract relations with the company. Thereupon the company filed its bill in the United
States Circuit Court for the District of Mississippi on the fourteenth day of February, 1901, the objects of which were thus
stated by Mr. Justice Shiras in delivering the opinion of the
court (185 U. S. 65):
"The bill prays for an injunction to restrain the, defendant
from assuming to abrogate and take away the franchises and
contract rights of the complainant, and from attempting
to coerce the company to sell its works to the defendant for
an inadequate price, and that said act of the legislature of
Mississippi, adopted on March 9, 1900, and said resolution and
ordinance adopted and passed by said city on the seventh day
of November, 1900, be declared to impair the obligations of
said contract between said city and said Bullock & Company
and their assigns, and to cast a cloud upon the title, franchises
and rights of complainant, and said act, ordinance and reso•lution, and each of them, are alleged to be in contravention
of the Constitution of the United States, in this, that they
impair the obligations of said contract between said city and
said Bullock & Company and their assigns."

VICKSBURG v. VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. 499
Statement of the Case.

206 U.S.

In the court of original jurisdiction the bill was dismissed
for want of jurisdiction. On the appeal, 185 U. S. 65, the
judgment was reversed, and this court held that there was
jurisdiction, and the. cause was remanded. The case went
to trial upon its merits, and on May 18, 1904, a final decree
was rendered, which was affirmed on appeal to this court in
the case reported in 202 U. S. 453. The decree in that case,
known in the record as No. 41, is given in the margin.1
-

Y

'Equity, No. 41.
Vicksburg Waterworks Company

VS.

.Mayor and Aldermen of the City of Vicksburg, Mississippi.
This day this cause came to be heard in accordance with the motion of
complainant and defendant filed Ja nuary 12th, 1904, upon the original bill,,
amended and supplemental bill, exhibits, answer of defen.dant, proof and
exhibits and the court after hearing and attending the evidence and the
arguments of counsel and being fully advised in the premises and being
satisfied that the complainant is entitled to the relief prayed for in its original
and amended and supplemental bills and for full relief; it is-thereupon hereby
ordered, adjudged and decreed:
First, that the defendants, the Mayor and Aldermen of the city of Vicksburg be and are hereby perpetually enjoined from abrogating and taking*
away, or from assuming to abrogate or take away the franchises or contract
rights of complainant under and by virtue of the ordinances, franchises or
contract of said defendants entitled, "An ordinance to provide for a supply
of water to the city of Vicksburg in Warren county, Mississippi, and to.its
inhabitants, contracting with Samuel R. Bullock & Company, their associates, successois and assigns for a supply of water for public use and giving
the said city of Vicksburg an option to purchase the said works," ordained
the 19th day of November, 1886, approved by John W. Powell, Mayor,
November 19th, 1886, being the ordinance, contract and franchise marked
Exhibit B to the original bill of complaint, and said ordinance, contract and
franchise being specifically and accurately set out in words and figures in
the pleadings, which ordinance, contract and franchise was acquired by and
is the sole and exclusive property of said complainant.
Second, that said ordinance, contract and franchise be and is hereby declared and held to be in every respect legal, valid and enforceable and binding upon said defendant, and said defendant is hereby perpetually enjoined
from infringing, ignoring, rescinding or denying liability under said ordinance,
contract and franchise in any of its parts, or from in any manner disturbing
or interfering with the rights, privileges and benefits acquired by complainant thereunder.
. Third, that said defendant be, and. he is hereby, directed to rescind its
resolution and ordinance adopted the 7th day of November, 1900, which.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

206 U. S.

During the pendency of the original action the legislature
of Mississippi passed an act authorizing the cities and villages
of the State to prescribe, by ordinance, maximum rates and
charges for the supply of water, electric light and gas furnished
to cities and the' inhabitants thereof. Laws of Mississippi,
1904, p. 231. Section 1 of this act is inserted in the margin.1
is in words and figures as follows: "Resolved, that the Mayor be and is
hereby instructed to notify the Vicksburg Waterworks Company that the
Mayor & Aldermen deny any liability upon any contract for the use of the'
waterworks hydrants. That from and after August, 1900, they will pay
reasonable compensation for the use of said hydrants. That the City Attorney take such action as shall be necessary to determine the rights of the
city in the premises."
And also to rescind the ordinance or resolution of said defendant adopted
the 7th day of February, 1901, when said defendant adopted the report of
the Committee on Waterworks, as set out in the pleadings.
Fourth, that the said defendant refrain from in any manner accepting the
benefits of or proceeding under the act of the legislature of the State of
Mississippi approved March 9, 1900, and from issuing bonds under and by
virtue of said act, or any other act or ordinance, for the purpose of erecting,
waterworks of its own during the period prescribed by ordinance, contract
-and franchise.
Fith, that the said defendant refrain from constructing waterworks of its
own until the expiration of the period prescribed in said ordinance, contract
and franchise, dated the 1Q day of November, 1886.
Sixth, that the said defendant be,and is hereby, required to pay all moneys
due or owing, or that may be hereafter be due and owing to said Complainant
under and by virtue of said ordinance, contract and franchise.
Seventh, that the said defendant be, and is hereby, perpetually enjoined
from making or adopting any resolutions, or ordinance, refusing to pay the
contract price of water fixed by said ordinance, contract and franchise until
the expiration of the period prescribed in said ordinance, contract and franchise.
Eighth (relates to certain. sewers).
Ninth, that said defendant pay the costs of this cause to be taxed.
1 Section 1. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Mississippi, That

the corporate authorities of any city, town or village now or hereafter incorporated under any general or specific laws of this state, in which any individual, company or corporation has been or hereafter may be authorized
by said city, town or village to supply water, electric light or gas to said city,
town, or village, or the inhabitants thereof, be and they are hereby empowered
to prescribe by ordinance maximum rates and charges for the supply of
water, electric light or gas furnished by such individual, company or corporation to such city, town or village or the inhabitants thereof, such rates and

VICKSBURG. v. VICKSBURG WATERWORKS C0. 501
206 U. S.

Statement of the Case.,.

On April 20, 1904, about one month before the iendition

of the final decree in the original ease, the city adopted two.
ordinances fixing the maximum charge for the use of water,

one by what is known as the "flat rate" and the other for.
water measured by meters.
On December 7, 1903,,the city passed an ordinance pro-.

hibiting the water company and gas company from charging
damages and other* penalties for failure to pay, bills, until
ten days after presenting the same and giving an opportunity
for the payment thereof.

On the seventh of January, 1905, the water company, in view
of this action by the city, filed another bill, which is the original
bill in this case, and was numbered 79, in which it set forth
the preceding history of the litigation, the decree of May 18,
1904, the city ordinance of December 7, 1903, and the two of
April 20, 1904, and in that.bill alleged its contract under the
ordinance of 1886 and the former decree, and that the enforce-

ment of the ordinances Was in violation of that decree and
the company's contract of 1886 and would be .destructive of

its business, and they prayed for an-injunction. A temporary
injunction was allowed, and afterwards, the case standing
on the bill, answer, and exhibits attached thereto, a final decree
was rendered in the case, which final decree is set forth in
the margin.'
From this decree the present appeal has been prosecuted.
charges to be just and reasonable. And in case the corporate authorities
of any such city, town or village shall fix unjust and unreasonable rates and
charges the same may be reviewed and determined, by the Circuit Court
of the county, in which said city, town or village may be; provided, that this
act shall not be construed so as to impose (impair),the effect or obligation
of any valid or binding contract with any waterworks company, electrid light
company or gas company now existing or heretofore made with any individual
or water company, electric light or gas company.
1This case coming on to be finally heard at this Jan'y Term, 1906, of this
court, upon the original bill of complaint and the answer* of the defendant'
thereto, and all the exhibits which are made such, to said original bill of
complaint and said answer, and all of the other pleas and proceedings in
this cause, together with a certified copy of the charter of the said Vicksburg

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellants.

206 U. S.

Mr. Hannis Taylor, with whom Mr. George Anderson was
on the brief, for appellants:
Appellee rests its claim of exemption from the right of the
Waterworks Company, which is filed in the record as evidence in the cause,
also the petition of the defendant for a modification of the temporary injunction granted in this cause, so that the complainant shall not be authorized to cut off water from its patrons who refuse to pay the rates of complainant, claiming the right to have the injunction modified by virtue of the
ordinances of the defendant, fixing water rates; and the motion of complainant to have said injunction granted heretofore. made perpetual. And the
court having heard the arguments of counsel, and being fully advised in the
premises, and being satisfied that the complainant is entitled to the relief
prayed for in its bill of complaint for full relief, it is thereupon finally ordered, adjudged and decreed:
First. That the defendant, the Mayor & Aldermen of the City of Vicksburg, is hereby denied the relief prayed for in its petition, to wit, that the
injunction be modified so that the Mayor & Aldermen of the City of Vicksburg shall not be restrained from enforcing the ordinances passed by them
fixing the water rates and prescribing rules and regulations of the Vicksburg
Waterworks Company, and that the Vicksburg Waterworks Company shall
not be permitted to cut off patrons' water, provided patrons pay the rates
fixed in said ordinances..
Second. That said defendant be and is hereby enjoined from enforcing the
said three ordinances described in said bill, to wit: An ordinance entitled
"An Ordinance to fix and prescribe maximum i-ates and charges for water
supplied to'the inhabitants of the City of Vicksburg, whether measured by
meters, and for other purposes," approved the 20th of April, 1904, an ordinance entitled "An Ordinance to fix and prescribe the maximum flat rates
and charges for the supply of water to consumers in the City of Vicksburg,
and for other purposes," approved the 20th day of April, 1904; and an ordinance entitled "An Ordinance to require waterworks, gas and electric companies to present bills before charging damages for a failure to pay them
when. due," approved the 8th day of December, 1903, so far as the latter
relates to complainant.
Third. That the restraining order heretofore granted in this cause on the
11th day of January, 1905, be and the same is hereby made permanent.
Fourth. That the said defendant be and is hereby enjoined from in any
manner interfering with the complainant's contract rights under its said
contractwith the City of Vicksburg entered into between Samuel R. Bullock
& Company and said city under the ordinance of November 19th, 1886.
Fifth.. That the defendant be and is hereby enjoined from interfering with
the rules and regulations of Complainant, the Vicksburg Waterworks Company, and the water rates for the inhabitants of the city of Vicksburg now
in force established by the Vicksburg Waterworks Company.

VICKSBURG v. VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. 503
206 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

legislature of Mississippi to regulate water rates solely 'on
§ 13 of the ordinance of November 18, 1886, by which Bullock & Co. were authorized to construct and operate waterworks for public use. But the only legislative authority the
mayor and aldermen of the city of Vicksburg had to enact
this ordinance, is an act amending the charter of Vicksburg,
approved March 7, 1884, authorizing them "to provide for
the erection and maintenance of a system of waterworks
to supply said city with water, and to that end to contract
with a party or parties who shall build and operate waterworks." This emphatically negatives the idea that the city
of Vicksburg was to have the power to grant any special privileges to appellee whatsoever. No authority was given, expressed or implied, to make the grant to appellee an exclusive
one; nor was any limitation upon the power of the legislature
subsequently to regulate or reduce water rates even hinted
at. The act of March 18, 1886 is not in the record, but it is
before the court as a part of its judicial knowledge. In the
exercise of its appellate jurisdiction over the lower courts of
the United States, this court takes judicial notice of the laws
of all the States. Renaud v. Abbott, 116 U. S. 277; Hanley v.
Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1; Liverpool and G. W. Steam Co. v.
Phenix Insurance Co., 129 U. S. 445.
The city of Vicksburg was not authorized to create a monopoly or to confer special privileges of any kind. Dillon on
Mun. Cor. §§ 443, 457.
Exclusive rights to public franchises are not favored, and
will never be presumed in the absence of an express grant.
Wright v. Nagle, 101 U. S. 791; Ruggles v. Illinois, 108 U. S.
536. "Every statute which takes away from a legislature its
power will be construed most strongly in favor of the State."
Sixth. That said defendant be and is hereby enjoined from interfering
with the water rates known as the flat rates now in force established by the
Vicksburg Waterworks Company.
It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the defendant pay all
costs of this cause.
Finally ordered, adjudged and decreed this the 3d day of Jan. A.D. 1906.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

206 U. S.

Vicksburg v. Waterworks Co., 202 U. S. 469 ; Knoxville Water
Works Co. v. Knoxville, 200 U. S. 22.

The adjudication as to the exclusive right of appellee to
maintain and operate waterworks for a defiruite period cannot
in any manner give color to the present contention, never
considered or passed upon heretofore, that the legislature of
Mississippi has deprived itself of the power subsequently to
authorize the city of Vicksburg to regulate rates of charges
for water, and prescribe rules and regulations for the conduct
of the water company. -Railroad Commission Cases, 116 U. S.
.307; Freeport Water Co. v. Freeport, 180 U. S. 587; Rogers
Park Water Co. v. Fergus, 180 U. S. 624; City of Joplin v.
Light Co., 191 U. S. 150; Owensboro Water Co. v. Owensboro,
191 U. S. 358; Stanislaus v. San Joaquin &c. Co., 192 U. S.
201.
Mr. Joseph Hirsh, with whom Mr. Murray F. Smith was on
the brief, for appellee:
The questions now at issue have already been heretofore
conclusively adjudicated and are no longer open for investigation and determination here again.
No case can be properly tried by installments; no complainant or defendant can speculate with judicial decisions;
when a defendant or complainant once has a standing in court
to uphold or to annul a contract or any other solemn undertaking, that it is incumbent upon both parties to the litigation to formulate, present, and seek a final disposition of all
material issues involved; when a contract is presented for consideration in its entirety, and when the owner of the contract
prays that the other party to the contract should be prohibited from annulling it, destroying it, or impairing it, if
the other party then has any real or substantial defenses
known to him upon the basis of which said contract can be
assailed, it is the bounden duty of that party to interpose such
* defenses-not, one, but all-and, failing to do so, should not
thereafter be permitted to reopen the controversy to interpose

VICKSBURG v. VfCKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. 505
206 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

defenses known to him and existing at the time the contract
is under consideration and an adjudication of its validity is
sought. 24 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law (2d ed.), pp. 781 and
782.
Under the laws of Mississippi, as construed by the highest
court, and under the constitution of 1890, the contract of
the waterworks company is unassailable.
The decision in the Freeport case and Rogers Park case and
other cases announcing similar principles must be construed,
of course, in the light of the facts involved in those cases.
If a state legislature has reserved to itself the right to amend,
repeal, or alter a state statute, and to amend or repeal a corporate charter, it can be readily maintained that by the creation
of such a charter or by the enactment of such a law the legislature has not parted with its power to regulate a corporation
organized under such laws, or to regulate, change, modify,
or vary rates authorized by such laws. A corporation which
makes a contract under such laws is chargeable with knowledge
thereof, and if by so doing it invites destruction by a practical
confiscation of its property under a so-called 'regulation of
its rates, it has only itself to blame. When its powers are
limited by the law under which it claims a right or privilege,
that law of course furnishes the measure of its right or privilege, and it cannot be heard to complain if.that law operates:
to its detriment. But .in the State of Mississppi in the year
1886, there was not vested in the legislature the right to repeal,
annul, or abrogate a charter procured under the laws then
existing. That charter was a contract, and Was protected
both by the state and the Federal constitutions, and the
Supreme Court of the State of Mississippi has not held, so far
as we have been able to ascertain, that a charter thus obtained
prior to the constitution of 1890 was subject to repeal or
amendment unless such right was especially reserved in the
act, and the provision of the constitution of 1890 which vested
the power in the legislature to repeal or amend corporate
charters expressly exempts from its operation any charter

506.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

then existing and irrevocable, and was mainly intended to be
prospective in its operation.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

It is contended on -behalf of the appellee that the original
decree of May 18, 1904, finally disposed of all the issues between the parties, including the right of the city to make rates
for water consumption to private consumers under the authority of the act of March 19, 1904, and that the present
controversy is foreclosed by the decree in the former case.
While it is true that the decree is very broad, we cannot
agree to the contention of the appellee that it finally disposed
of the matter now in controversy. When the case was first
here, reported in 185 U. S. 65, while there are expressions in
the opinion affirming the validity of the contract and the
authority of the city to make it, the issue really decided was
as to the jurisdiction of the court as a Federal court, which
was sustained, and the cause remanded for further proceedings.
Upon the second hearing of the case, and the appeal here,
the opinion shows that the adjudication was regarded as
settling the right of the Vicksburg Waterworks Company,
under the contract, to carry on its business*without the competition of works to be built by the city itself, as the city had
lawfully excluded itself from the right of competition; and
it was further held, as incidental to that controversy, in
passing upon an issue made in the suit, that the Vicksburg
Waterworks Company had succeeded to all the right, title,
and interest of the original contracting party, and that the
contract, having been made prior to the constitution of 1890,
was not controlled by its provisions. The right to recover
for rentals was also directly involved, as the city had denied
its liability therefor, and an accounting was prayed in the
original bill and the decree specifically disposed of that issue.
*It is true that in the answer it was averred that the alleged
contract imposed upon the inhabitants of Vicksburg an onerous

VICKSBURG v. VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. 50"
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and extortionate burden; "that no such contract would now
be made with the Vicksburg Waterworks Company or any
other company; that the rates authorized in said ordinance
far exceeded the rates charged in other cities under like circumstances and, in general "terms," the city denied that it
was bound to the complainant by contract; "that for the maIny
reasons therein set forth, no liability -existed on the part of
the city by reason of the contract."
An examination of the record in the former case shows that
the only testimony taken in the case, as to the reasonableness
of the rates charged to private consumers, was on behalf of
the company, and tended to show that the rates charged were
reasonable, and if it could -be said that the pleadings put in
issue the reasonableness of the rates then charged, was the
right of the city to regulate rates under a subsequent law of
the State necessarily involved and concluded? The determination of issues as to the right of injunction against the
city building its own works, or denying liability or refusing
to pay the rentals contracted for, and a finding that existing
rates were reasonable, did not necessarily conclude a controversy which might thereafter arise, as to the right of the city
to fix rates when the legislature of Mississippi should pass a
law for that purpose, giving the city the right to regulate the
same. It is to be remembered that when the bill was filed in
the original case no such law had been passed; that when
the act of March, 1904, went into effect the case was nearly
ready for final decree, and the city passed its ordinances long
after the beginning of the suit, and shortly before, that decree.
No supplemental bill was filed, but after the decree, in January,
1905, the present independent suit was brought, with a view
to enjoirling the proposed action of the city in enforcing ordinances regulating the rates by charges other than those contained in the contract.
Upon the. appeal, the question seems to have been argued
by the city as though made in the case, though the brief on
behalf of the appellee. contends that the act of 1904 was not

508 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

involved. But a decree must be read in the light of the issues
involved in the pleadings and the relief 'sought, and we are
of opinion that the matters now litigated were not involved
in or disposed of in the former case; and that when properly
construed the decree does not finally dispose of the right of
the city to regulate rates under a law passed after the contract
went into effect and long after the bill was filed in the case.
Holding, then, that the plea of res judicata must be denied,
had the city authority, under the charter of Vicksburg, passed
in 1886, to make a binding contract, fixing maximum rates
for water supply to private consumers for a definite period,
thirty years in the present case? The grant of legislative
power upon its face is unrestricted, and authorizes the city
"to provide for the erection and maintenances of a system of
waterworks to supply said city with water, and to that end
to contract with a party or Darties who shall build and operate
waterworks."
That a State may, in matters of proprietary rights, exclude
itself from the right to make regulations of this kind, or authorize municipal corporations to do so, when the power is
clearly conferred, has been too. frequently declared to admit
of doubt. Los Angeles v. Los Angeles City Water Company,
177 U. S. 558; Walla Walla v. Walla Walla Water Company,
172 U. S. 1-7; New Orleans Waterworks Company v. Rivers,
167 U. S. 674; Freeport Water Company v. Freeport, 180 U. S.
587-593.
In the latter case this court, following the construction of
the Supreme Court of Illinois, held that where-a city council
was authorized to contract with any person or corporation
to construct and maintain waterworks at such a rate as. may
be fixed by ordinance.for a period not exceeding thirty years,
the words "fixed by ordinance" being capable of application
so as to make one ordinance endure for the period of thirty
years, for which the contract was made, or to give the right
to pass ordinances from time to time regulating rates, the latter
construction was adopted.

VICKSBURG v. VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. 509
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In the cases generally in this court it will be found that,
in determining the matter of contract, the local decisions have
been given much weight and, ordinarily, followed. As this is
a Mississippi contract, and the power was exercised under
the authority of an act of the legislature of that State, we
naturally look to the decisions of the courts of that State,
particularly to such as had given construction to similar charters at the time the contract was made, with a view to determining the extent of the power conferred.
While the case now before us was pending, Griffith and
others, citizens of Vicksburg, filed a bill, setting forth the city
ordinances of 1903 and 1904, and asking to have them established and maintained and an injunction granted against
enforcing charges for higher rates, and upon appeal the case
went to the Supreme Court of Mississippi, and is reported in
40 So. Rep. 1011. In that case the Supreme Court of Mississippi
held that the municipal corporation represented the citizens
and taxpayers of the city, and that where a right had been
adjudged as between the company and the city it would conclude private citizens, and while the court declined to pass
directly upon the question here involved, because of its pehdency in the Federal courts, it used this pertinent and suggestive language:
"We decline to follow the decision in .riffin v. Goldsb6ro
Water Company (N. C.), 30 S. E. 319; 41 L. R. A. 240, in holding
that while a water company which accepts an ordinance by
which a mhximum rate is fixed is bound, and cannot exceed
the same because of its contract, yet such rates are not binding
upon consumers, who have a right to litigate against unreasonable charges. This holding, it seems to us, practically denies
the power of a company, under a contract embodied in its
charter giving the power, so to fix a rate as to bind a private
consumer at all. It opens a never-ending and limitless field
of litigation. It is well settled that the courts cannot, fix a
rate; and if, proceeding duly under statutes enacted for that
purpose, the municipality -cannot do so. or authorize the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

pany by contract to do so, and thereby bind the citizens, then
there is-no authority by which it can be done.
"It is not a matter open to serious discussion in this State,
since the decision by this court in the case of Stone v. Railroad
Company, 62 Mississippi, 607, 52 Am. Rep. 193, decided at
the April term, 1885, and before the act of 1886 (Laws 1886,
p. 694, c. 358), amending the charter of Vicksburg, was enacted,
that a quasi-public corporation may have a contract right to
fix rates within a certain designated maximum, and that the
.rates so fixed are matter of contract guaranteed by the contract
clauses of' the United States Constitution. In that decision
the court was manifestly directing its observations to the
binding character of the rates as between the company and
the shippers; otherwise, the decision was practically meaningless and without point. The philosophy of the situation is
simple. Granting that the company is lawfully invested with
authority to fix its rate, then such rate being so fixed by it
within the maximum limit allowed by the charter, or allowed
by the courts presumed
by the duly authorized ordinance, is.
for each individual
permissible
to be reasonable; and it is not
citizen, in every controversy that may arise, to have that
question, once passed upon by the lawfully constituted public
authorities charged with power in the premises, reopened and
litigated anew."
The case. to which the court refers in the preceding extract,
Stone V. The Railroad Company, 62 Mississippi, 607, as having
been decided prior to the enactment of the charter of Vicksburg under which the contract in question was made, did not
directly- involve the question of authorizing municipal corporations to make such contracts, but did maintain, after an
exhaustive consideration, of the subject, that a grant to a
railroad company, in the charter, of a right to fix rates within
maxinuum limits named; was a contract, within the meaning
of the. Federal and- state constitutions, which could not be
violated by a subsequent attempt to prescribe different rates,
and held that the railroad company's grant was not a renun-

VICKSBURG v. VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. 511
206 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

ciation of the legislative power to secure reasonable rates,
but rather an exercise of that power, and, when rights were
thus conferred, to that extent there was a renunciation of
the right of the State tQ control the subject. In-the course
of the discussion the learned judge, speaking for the court,
said:
"The power to contract is an essential attribute of sovereignty and is of prime importance. Its exercise has been
productive of incalculable benefits to society, however great
may be the evils incident to its injudicious employment.
It cannot be denied merely because of its liability to abuse.
The power to contract implies the power to make a valid contract. . - . The right- to grant charters includes the
right to grant such as will be upheld. Conferring power on
the grantee of the franchise to fix rates of compensation at
discretion, or within prescribed limits fixed by the charter,.
has been the common practice of the legislatures of the States
of the United States from an early period of their history.
The right of the corporators to exercise the powers conferred
by the act of incorporation, whether to fix rates themselves
or to take those fixed by their charter and to rest securely
on its provisions in this respect, has hitherto been generally
regarded as indisputable.
"A grant in general terms of authority to fix rates is not a
renunciation of the right of legislative control so as to secure
reasonable rates. Such a grant evinces merely a purpose to
confer power to exact compensation which shall be just and
reasonable.
"If the grant can be interpreted without ascribing to the
legislature an intent to part with any power, it will be done.
Only what is plainly parted with is gone. Fixing rates in a
charter is a specification of what is reasonable-an exclusion
of tacit or implied conditions on the subject. It is an essential
part of the contract of incorporation, the most important
condition of its existence, the inducing cause of its acceptance."

.512

2 OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

We are referred to other cases in Mississippi which deal
directly with the extent of the power conferred upon municipal
corporations in charters in general terms, some of Which we
may notice.
In Light, Heat & Water Company v. City of Jackson, 73
Mississippi, 598, the city of Jackson had filed its bill, undertaking to annul a contract binding the city to pay for water
for a period of -twenty years at a price and rate fixed in a certain ordinance, on the ground that it was ultra vires and
without authority from the legislature. In that case the
authority conferred was in general, terms, authorizing the city
to contract with any reliable corporation, association or
individual for supplying the city of Jackson with water and
electric or gas lights from year to year. Under authority
of this general power the city undertook to make a contract
with the Light, Heat and Power Company of Jackson, contracting for the furnishing of water to the public at certain
annual rentals for a period of twenty years, and fixing a
certain rate for annual rentals to private consumers. The
Supreme Court of Mississippi dealt directly with the question:
Was the contract made between the city and company and set
forth in the bill invalid for want of power in the city to contract for a series of years? And the court said:
"In view of the nature andcharacter of the subject-matter
of the contract which the board of mayor and aldermen of
the city of Jackson was authorized to make by ihe third section of the act of February 29th, 1888, we think the contract
entered into with the appellant was within the delegation of
power so far as the time of its duration is involved. .
We know that the machinery, mains and appliances required
for supplying the city with water are costly to begin with,
and are relatively of little value if removed when once located.
Permanency of the plant is essential to the realization of any
profit in the enterprise, and in cities having no greater population than that of Jackson the use of water for municipal
purposes would probably be a prerequisite to secure the in-

VICKSBURG v. VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. 513
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

vestment of the capital" necessary to the construction of the
plant. The words 'from year to year' relied upon by the
appellee as limiting the power of the officers of the city to the
making of the annual contracts, deived much of their- Significance from the subject and nature of.the thing contracted
for, the character of the body on which the power is conferred;
the end to the attainment of which the power is to be exercised,
and the extent to which -such. powers for such purposes are
usually conferred.
"A few days after the act was passed, a commission was
appointed by the legislature'to contract. for Water for the state"
institutions, situated in and near the city, for the term of:
twenty-five years. In this act powor was conferred upon all
municipalities to enter into contracts for a term not exceeding
twenty-five years, for Supplies of water, on a two-thirds.:
affirmative vote' of the qualified electors, but the act. provided ..
that it should not apply -to municipalities, whose .chaiters
already conferred the power of making contracts for water.
.*

*

*

*

*

.*

*

,
*,

"A contract made by the authorities of a municipality
with a Water company for supplying the city-with water for a
period of twenty years, is within the power conferred on them*
by an act of the legislature authorizing them to contract with
any reliable corporation for supplying the city with water
from year to year, in view of the purpose of the delegation
of power; the nature of the. body on which it was conferred,
the: subject-matter- of the contract, the large outlay for machinery and' appiiances, the. profit of "which, was dependent
upon the permanency of the enterprise, and the cotemporaneous
legislation, from .which the -intent to authorize A contract of
as great duration as twenty-five years is deducible."
Again, in -the case of Reid v. Trowbridge, 78 Mississippi, 542,
the mayor and aldermen .of the, city of Vicksburg had been
authorized, in. general. terms, to provide for the. lighting of
said city by electric light-or other method. Under this general
power the city made a:contract with the Vicksburg Railroad,
VOL.

CcViL-33-

514

,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court..

206 U. S.

Power and Manufacturing Company for lighting the streets
by electricity, at a given rental per annum, for one hundred.
and twenty-five lights, for a period of ten years. The taxpayers of the city of Vicksburg filed a bill to enjoin the carrying
out of the contract, alleging that the city had' no. authority

to make Such .a contract without submitting it to a vote of
the people under the act of March, 1888,. passed subsequent to
the charter, requiring submission to a vote of the people, that
'the contract was unreasonable and oppressive, and that the
council had acted arbitrarily and without exercising discretion
in awarding it. The court held that the act of 1888 had no
applicatioA to .the case, and, speaking of the general terms of
.the charter aut iorizing a contract for lighting. purposes, said:
"The intent. of the legislature to confer the power without
restriction appears to. us to be too plain, from the collocation
and order and sequence of the sections and article of the charter
act, to admit of obscuration by learned argument' about
-original power. The very last legislative action on the subject, that in the municipal charter of the Code of 1892, shows
that the lawmakers thought the. power to be one to be conferred'
or prohibited, because it expressly confers it on cities and. towns
and prohibits its exercise by villages.
"It is claimed now that the last clause of section 1 of the
first quoted of the above acts, that approved March 10, 1888
applied to and modified the charter of the city of Vicksburg
'so as to make the contract here in controversy Void because
not submitted to vote. In order., to this result it is claimed
that, in the charter 'of Vicksburg, it is not 'otherwise provided,' because the charter expressly. confers the power,
without restriction, on the municipal board at any 'regular
or special meeting.' Besides, in construing the section of the
act secondly above quoted, this court expressly so held in the
case of Light &c. Co. v. Jackson, 73 Mississippi, 644. If the
precise point was not made, the omission is quite significant
of the opinion of- the eminent counsel for appellee in that case

VICKSBURG v. VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. 515
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that there was nothing in it. Aside from this, the question
was at the very root of the cause, ,and was considered and
decided, and it is the exact question in the case at bar, except
that this case is somewhat stronger in favor of the power than
the case decided.
."Bysection 3 of the act of February 29; 1888, the Jackson
board was 'hereby authorized and. empowered to contract,'
etc., while by the Vicksburg charter act, the board was au-.
thorized to so contract "at -any 'regular. or special meeting.'
We presume that no charter ,then existent 'otherwise provided' by an-express: prohibition of electric lighting without
vote. The grant'ofthe power without restriction is to 'otherwise proyide.!.".
And the court held that 'under this. power the municipal
authorities. had' the right t6make the contract for electric
lights without advertising for bids and without submitting.
the matter to a ppular vote, 'and the power was not taken
away by.tfie act of -March, 1888.
In this case the learned judge, speaking' for the court,
further said.:
"Within its charter powers, the board has a discretion independent of court ,and no exercise of- it will be held void
for unreasonableness, unless so gross as to strongly suggest
fraud or corruption. The people. elct their counil, and the.
courts. are not chose0 members. of it.". '
"-In the light of' these deisions, 'and others mightbe' cited,
we reach the conclugion that, under .abroad grant of 'power,
conferring, 'without restriction or 'limitation, upon the city of
Vicksburg the'right-.to make a-contact for a supply -of water,
'it was within the right of the city -council in the exercise'of
this power,- to make a'binding ontract,-fixing a maximum. rateat .which water should be stipplied to the inhabitants of the
city for a limited term of years,.and, in the absence of a showing
..of unreasopitbl,ends "so gross," as .the court of' Mississippi has.
said,' ",as to strongly suggest. fraud. or corruption," this action
of the council is .binding, and for the time' limited puts -the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

206 U. S.

right beyond legislative or municipal alteration to the prejudice of the, other contracting party.
While we, therefore, reach the conclusion that the former
case did not adjudicate the matter, we think the contract in
this respect was within the power of the council and cannot
be violated consistently with the contract rights of the company by the subsequent ordinances of the city.
In this case the Circuit Court rendered a final decree. practically upon the bill and answer. No testimony was taken,
and all that was before the court was the bill, answer and exhibits. We think the decree goes too far in enjoining the city
from interfering with. the contract right of the company to
charge the rates fixed thereby, in view of the allegations of
the -nswer, that the rates charged. by the company exceeded
those named in section 13 of the ordinance of 1886.
The decree should be modified, so as to enjoin interference
on the part of the city during the term of this. contract, with
the right of the company to charge rates not in excess of
fifty cents a thousand gallons to private consumers, as set
forth, in the ordinance.
With this modification, the decree will be
Affirmed.

BERNHEIMER v. CONVERSE.
DREY AND BERNHEIMER v. CONVERSE.
IN ERROR TO ,THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE -SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
-

Nog. 278, .279.

Argued April 25, 26,1907.-Decided May 27, 1907.

This qourt in this case followed the. judgment -of the highest court of the
State in. determining that. a-corporation was not within the exception,
constittiffonal and statutory,, as to stockholders' liability in favor of certain classes of corporations. Where, as in Minndsota, stockholders' liability is fixed ahid measured by the. Constitution, a stockholder upon

