OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S..

CINCINNATI, HAMILTON AND DAYTON RAILWAY
COMPANY v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 201i.

Argued January'31, February 1, 1907.---4ecided May 13, 1907.

The Interstate Commerce Commission, in making an investigation on the complaint of a shipper has, in the public interest, the power disembarrassed
by any supposed admissions contained in the statement of the complaint
to donsideK the whole subject and the operation of the new classification

complained of in the entire -territory; also how far its going into effect
Would be just and reasonable and Would create preferences. or engender
discriminations and whether it. is in conformity with the requirements
of the act to regulate commerce. And if if finds that the new classification disturbs the fat4 relations thereupon existing in the official classifi-.

cation 'territory and- creates preferences and engenders discriminations
it may, in order to pre-vent such result, prohibit the further enforcement
of the changed classification, and an.order to that effect is within the
power conferred by Congress on the Commission; and so held as to an
order of the Commission directing carriers from further enforcing throughout official classification territory-a changed classification in regard to

common soap in less than carload lots.
146 Fed. Rep. 559, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, -Jr., and Mr. Edward Colston for

appellants.
Mr. L. A. SMver and Mr. P. J. Farrellfor appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

Official Classification territory embraces that portion of the
United States lying between Canada on the north, the Atlantic.

CINCINNATI &c. RY. CO. v. INTER. COM. COM'N. 143
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Ocean on the east, the Potomac and Ohio Rivers on the south
and the Mississippi River on the west. This territory includes
what is known as Central Freight Association territory and
Trunk Line territory, both being governed by the Official
Classification. The Central Freight Association territory comprises the area west of Pittsburg and Buffalo, including the
lower peninsula of Michigan and east of a line from Chicago to
St. Louis, the Mississippi River from St. Louis to Cairo and
north of the Ohio River. Trunk Line territory lies north of
the Potomac River and east of Pittsburg and Buffalo. Whilst
Official Classification governed throughout the whole of Official
Classification territory, the rates throughout the whole 9 f the
,Official Classification territory were not uniform because of a
difference of rates prevailing in the subdivision, that is, in the
Central Freight and Trunk Line territory. Thus although on
shipments from points in the Central Freight Association
territory to points in the Trunk Line territory or vice versa
rates were the same for similar distances,. yet on shipments
between termini wholly within one or the.'other of these territories the rates varied because of the different rules governing
rates which prevailed as to traffic exciusiv'ely moving in that
particular territory,
The first classification adopted by the railroads to control in
the territory above described as Official Classification territory
was made contemporaneously with the going into effect of the
.act to regulate cormmerce, presumably to comply with that act,
and took effect on April 1, 1887. From that date, until January 1, 1900, nineteen. general 'classifications of freight, numbered from 1 to 19, were at various times adopted to govern
in Official Classification territory. The articles embraced in
these clussifications were divided into-classes, numbered from
!:to 6, the rate increasing as the number of the class decreased.
From the beginning, until June 1, 1891, common soap in boxes
in carloads was rated as fifth class, and fourth class for less
than carloads. On the last-named date, in consequence of an
'order entered by the Commission on a complaint, as to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Couit.

206 U. S.

classification of common soap in carloads, made by Procter &
Gamble, soap manufacturers of Cincinnati, Ohio, soap in carloads was reduced to sixth class. This classification continued
to govern until January 1, 1900, when a new classification,
known as Official Classification No. 20, went into effect, by
virtue of which soap in carloads was advanced from sixth to
fifth class and soap in less than carloads was advanced from
fourth to third clasg.
After the going into effect of Classification No. 20, the
Procter-& Gamble Company, successor of the firm of Procter
& Gamble, complained to the Interstate Commerce Commission in respect to the alterations made in the classification of
common soap. The petition recited the prior complaint by
the firm of Procter & Gamble, and the making in 1890 of the
order which led to the reduction from fifth to sixth class,
heretofore referred to.
It was charged in the petition that in Official Classification
No. 20 there had been an inequitable selection of particular
articles alid an increase in the rates upon such articles alone
by the device of changing them from a lower to a higher class,
for the sole purpose of increasing revenues to cover an alleged
increase of cost of operation of the railroads, and that "by such
course defendants have subjected and do thereby subject the
said traffic in the articles changed, including common soap in
-carloads and less than carload lots, to an undue and unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage with respect to the traffic in
all of the. articles whose classification was not changed in
Official Classification No. 20." It was further alleged as
follows:
"If there are any qualities and conditions which, though not
considered by defendants at the time of the adoption of said
Classification No. 20, justify, nevertheless, the making of any
or part of said changes, the same, at any rate, do not apply to
common soap in carloads or less than carload lots. The same
should, at least, have remained in sixth class in carload lots,
as ordered by this Commission as aforesaid, and in fourth class

CINCINNATI &c. RY. CO. v. INTER. COM. COM'N. 145
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in less than carload lots, so as to maintain the proper relation
and difference of rates between carload and less than carload
lots. The changing of particular articles as aforesaid from
lower to higher classes for the sole purpose of increasing the
revenues of the railroads interested therein, is not a condition
or circumstance justifying the said change of classification in
common soap."
It was prayed that an order might be entered requiring the
Cincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton Railroad Company and
seven other named railroad companies, forming various connecting and joint lines of railroad in the territory governed
by Official' Classification No. 20, to "cease and desist from
refusing to carry common soap- in carload lots at sixth-class
rates, and from refusing to carry common soap in less than carload lots at fourth-class rates." After the filing of the petition
and before answer, Official Classification No. 20, was, in part,
changed by making a new class, intermediate classes three and
four for soap in less than carload lots and on some other articles, this class being determined by giving the articles in question the benefit of a reduction on the third-class rate of 20 per
cent, provided the application of the 20 per cent reduction did
not reduce the charge below the fourth-class rate, in which
event the 20 per cent reduction should not be fully applied,
but would only be applied to the extent necessary to make the
rate not less than fourth class. The classification thus operating is spoken of as 20 per cent less than third class, but not less
than fourth class, and we shall speak of it hereafter in this
way.
In the answers filed the defendants in substance denied that
common soap was improperly classified in Official Classification
No. 20, originally or as modified, or that an unreasonable or
unlawful rate was exacted for the carriage of soap, or that the
defendants subjected the soap traffic to any undue or unreasonable prejudice, disadvantage or discrimination.
The taking of testimony was ended on September 26, 1900,
and the report and opinion of the Commission was filed about
VOL. CCvI-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U.S.

two and a half years thereafter, viz., on April 10, 1903. 9
I. C. C. Rep. 440. As respects putting carload soap in the
fifth class, the Commission refrained both from deciding that
the classification was unreasonable per se or that its reasonableness had been affirmatively established. It said:
"We regard the primary and controlling question in this
case as a question of classification; that is, of relative rates, and
dispose of it accordingly. In that view it is sufficient to hold
that carload soap is not improperly placed in the fifth class,
and that fifth-class rates therefore are not shown to be unlawful. So long as most articles entitled-to as low rates as carload
soap are put in the fifth class and required to pay fifth-class
rates, we are not warranted, on the evidence .before us, in
condemning the same. rating for that commodity. This disposition of the case, however, will not authorize the retention
of carload soap in fifth class if the classification of other articles with which soap is compared should be reduced, nor will
anything now decided preclude the Commission from holding,
in an appropriate proceeding, that fifth-class rates in this territory are excessive."
In regard to the less than carload classiiication of common
soap, after directing attention to the fact that ,such traffic had
always been fourth class until January 1, 1900, the Commission said:
"A presumption that such rates are reasonable arises from
the voluntary action of the carriers in keeping those rates in
effect during such a long period, and that presumption has not
been overcome, in our judgment, by' the evidence presented
in this case.",
It was also found that certain rules set out in the findings
governing carloads of mixed freight, permitting the carriage
of the same at carload rates, coupled with the increase in the
long standing less than carload rates on soap, operated a strong
discrimination in favor of meat packers who manufactured
soap, against manufacturers who were mainly engaged in
manufacturing and selling soap. So also the Commission held

CINCINNATI &c. RY. CO. v. INTER. COM..COM'N. 147
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the change as to the classification of soap in less than
carload lots, besides involving the payment of higher rates,"for
less than carload shipments, had brought about rate relations
different from those previously existing between shippers of.
soap in Official Classification territory. Thus it was found that
as a result of the new method of classification a shipper located
at New York City could ship therefrom to practically all
points in New England and a large number of points in New
York State without paying higher than fourth-class rates,
while a shipper located at Cincinnati could not ship northerly
or northwesterly therefrom, more than about sixty miles, without paying an advance over fourth-class rates. The Commission expressly declared that "the difference of fifteen cents
between fifth class and third class, which was in effect as
between carload and less than carload shipments from January 1, to March 10, 1900," the time during-which Official Classification No. 20 prevailed; before it was modified by the percentage reduction as'to soap in less than carload lots ".would
plainly be excessive," and that the change operated by the
percentage modification in question occasions a difference
"which varies according to a given per cent, as applied to
different scales of rates, appears to be inequitable and unjust,
and the fact is so found."
In the order, as entered, the Commission dismissed so much
of the complaint as referred to the classification of common
or laundry soaps in carloads, and the defendants were "notified
and required to cease and desist, on or before the 15th day of
June, 1903, from charging, demanding, collecting or receiving
for the transportation of common or laundry soap in less than
carload quantities charges or rates per one hundred pounds,
equal to twenty per cent less than rates fixed by them for the
transportation of articles, designated as third class in their
established freight classification, called and known as the
'Official Classification,' which said twenty per cent less than
third-class rates for the transportation of common or laundry
soap in less than carloads are found and determined in and

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

by said report and opinion of the Commission to be in violation
of the act to regulate commerce."
The'railway companies not having complied with the order,
this proceeding -was- commenced by the Commission in the
Circuit.'Court of the Uiited States for the Southern District
of Ohio, under the direction of the Attorney General of the
United States, to enforce compliance therewith. As respects
the alleged unlawful character of the change in the classification. of soap in less .than carload quantities, if was charged in
the petition as follows:
"And the petitioner. charges that the action of the defendants in raising the classification of common or laundry soap in
less than carload quantities, on December 29,. 1899, from fourth
class to third class, and subsequently, on March 10, 1900,
changing the classification of common or laundry soap in less
than carload quantities to twenty per* cent below third-class
rates, the same- being more than fourth-class' rates, was in
violation of the act-to regulate commerce; and petitioner further
charges that the rates charged by the defendants since December 29, 1899, for the transportation of common or laundry
soap in less than carload quantities are in violation of section 1
of the act to regulate commerce, in that they are unreasonable
and unjust; and said rates. are and have been in violation of
section 3.of said act, in that,said rates, based upon the classification aforesaid, give an undue and unreasonable preference
or advantage to other descriptions of traffic,- and subject common or laundry soap in less-than carloads to an undue prejudice
and disadvantage. The petitioner further charges that'the
change in classification by the defendants, made effective
about December -29,- 1899, whereby common or laundry soAp
in less than. carload quantities was changed from fourth to
third class, and the change in classification by the defendants,
.made 'effective March 10, 1900, whereby common or laundry
soap in less than carload quantities was charged more than
fourth-class rates, to wit, twenty per cent below third-class
rates, were in -violation of said act to regulate commerce, in

CINCINNATI &c. RY. CO. v. INTER. COM. COM'N. 149
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that said changes were unreasonable and unjust, and result in
unlawful discrimination and prejudice against common or
laundry soap in less than carload quantities, and against
localities in Official Classification territory, wherein commodities are produced and transported, and against producers,
shippers, dealers and consumers in said territory."
In the various answers filed issue was taken upon these aver-.
ments without any intimation that any of the issues so tendered were improper to be raised.
The case was heard in the Circuit Court on the evidence
before the Commission and on additional evidence taken'by the
defendants, principally directed to showing the extra cost incident to handling and transporting freight in general in less than
carload lots. The complainant took no additional testimony.
The Circuit Court decided in favor of the Commission (146
Fed. Rep. 59), holding that the evidencQ not only failed to
justify the change of classification complained of, but. established that the advance in rates caused by the increase in the
classification of soap in less than carload quantities was not
only unreasonsable and unjust, but also resulted in an unlawful discrimination and preference between shippers. The case
was then appealed to this court.
Before considering the fundamental question upon which
the order of the Commission and the decree of the court enforcing it rest, we dispose of certain propositions relied upon
by the railway companies, because to do so we think will clear
the way for an analysis of the final question arising, stripped
of confusing and irrelevant considerations.: We think the
Commission in making an investigation on the complaint filed
by the Procter & Gamble Company had the power, in the public
interest, disembarrassed by any supposed admissions contained in the statement of complaint to consider the whole
subject and the operation of the new classification in, the
entire territory, as also how far its going into effect would
be just and reasonable, would create preferences or engender
discriminations; in other words, its conformity to the require-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

ments of the act to regulate commerce. And that such was
the view taken as well by the railway companies as by the
Commission during the course of the investigation before that
body, is, we think, beyond doubt. Thus, on the examination
of the very first witness called for the complainant before the
Commission, counsel for the railway companies stated that-in
his opinion the pending investigation had "no significance
except as preliminary to a judicial proceeding." And when
at the threshold a question was raised in the examination of
the same witness as to the competency of evidence on a subject not directly expressed in the complaint, but bearing upon
the effect of the new classification, the Commission declared it
was competent to show the general effect of such classification
in the territory through which it operated. Our assent to this
view of the power of the Commission conclusively, of course,
also. disposes of the contention that the court was without
authority to determine the validity of the order of the Commission by the scope of the act to regulate commerce, because
of an admission asserted to exist in the complaint originally
filed before the Commission. It is needless, moreover, to say
that the course of the proceeding before the Commission which
we have stated, strips the case of any element of surprise or
possible prejudice.
The Commission, as we have seen, did not find that the rate
promulgated in Official Classification No. 20, as to soap in
carloads, was unreasonable, preferential or discriminatory.
From this it is elaborately argued that the order rendered
by the Commission demonstrates its own error. This proceeds upon the following theory: For a number of years prior
to 1891 soap. in less than carloads was in the fourth class, and
soap in carloads in the fifth class. By the order of the Commission, rendered in 1891, as we have seen, soap in carloads was
put in the sixth class. By Official Classification No. 20 soap
in carloads was moved up to fifth and soap in less than carloads from fourth to third class. The change made by the
new classification destroyed the previous relation since the

CINCINNATI &c. RY. CO. v. INTER. COM. COM'N. 151
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

difference between the rates governing third and fifth classes
made by the new was greater than the difference between the
fourth and sixth classes as obtaining in the prior classification.
And this was one of the complaints made by the Procter &
Gamble Company concerning the new Classification No; 20.
The carriers, it is said, to meet this objection, adopted, after
the complaint was filed, the modified classification of 20 per
cent less than third class but not less than f6urth class. The
effect of this reduction, it is declared, was to cause soap in
less than carloads to occupy just the same relative position
to soap in carloads as it had occupied in the classification existing prior to the going into effect of Official Classification No. 20.
And as the order of the Commission did not change the classification as applied to soap in carloads made by Official Classification No. 20, the proposition is that that body in holding
the modified classification of 20 per. cent less than third class
and not less than fourth class to be illegal, destroyed the relation which the Commission had created by its former order,
and which it was the purpose of the complaint .of the Procter
& Gamble Company to restore. But the argument takes for
granted the very question for decision, that is, whether the
modified classification of 20 per cent less than third class, but
not less than fourth class, operated to continue the relation
between soap in carloads and soap in leps than carloads, which
prevailed throughout Official Classification territory before the
making of Official Classification No. 20. That the proposition
thus begs the whole question, is demonstrated by the mere
statement that both the Commission and the court below decided that Official Classification No. 20, as modified as to soap
in less than carloads by the percentage order, was unreasonable,
discriminatory, and by its effect created preferences among
manufacturers and shippers of soap which had not existed
prior to the new classification. When the real significance of
the proposition is thus seen it amounts to this, that we must
assume that both the court below and the Commission erroneously decided the controversy, and upon this mere assumption

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the-Court.

206 U. S..

proceed to reverse their action. But our duty, not to assume
but to decide the case, cannot be thus obscured.
Laying aside, however, the questions of unreasonableness,
of discrimination, and of preference and the consequent destruction, if these effects exist, by the new classification of the
prior relation between soap in carloads and less than carload
quantities, let us briefly consider the intrinsic merit of the
proposition relied upon. It is that prior to Official Classification No. 20 there was a just relation between soap in carloads
in class 6 and soap in less than carloads in class 4. Of course
this admits that such just relation was destroyed by Official
Classification No. 20 as originally put in force, since thereby
soap in carload lots was placed in class 5 and soap in less than
carloads in class 3, between which classes there was a greater
difference relatively in rates than theretofore existed between
the two commodities in the prior classification. This inequality
the carriers declare was obviated after the complaint was filed,
by the modified classification as to soap in less than carload
lots of twenty per cent less than third class but not less than
fourth class. By this means it is insisted the relation previously existing was recreated, and any disturbance engendered by Official Classification No. 20 was cured. Now, on the
surface of things, the contradiction of the position is manifest.
The modified rate on its face did not propose to put soap in
less than carloads throughout the whole territory in a uniform
class, but in the class which might result from the operation of
a percentage basis controlled by whether or not the application of the percentage might or might not take soap out of
one class and into another. In other words, it clearly contemplated that by the varying, rates to which the percentage
would be applied, soap in less than carloads would be left in
portions of the territory in the fourth class and in a higher class
in other portions. I-low, in view of this, it can be in reason
conceived that the admitted uniform classification prevailing
prior to the percentage rule could possible continue under a
classification inherently wanting in uniformity, we fail to
understand.

CINCINNATI &c. RY. CO. v. INTER. COM. COM'N. 153
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But put the foregoing considerations aside. The complaint
as to the order of the Commission is that it disturbed the
previous relations between soap in carloads and less than carloads. What was the order? In effect it condemned and directed the carrier to desist from enforcing the modified percentage classification. At the worst view for the carrier the
order complained of can only be taken as persuaiively indicating-and such was the view intimated in the opinion of the
Commission-the duty of the carriers to return soap in less
than carloads to class 4, in which it had been .miformlyplaced
prior to the going into effect of Official Classification No. 20.
The real grievance which the railway companies must have
reduces itself to this, that the order may lead to the putting
of soap in less than carloads in class 4. But the very percentage
basis which the carriers adopted contemplated that in some
portions of the territory and somewhere the effect of the
modification by a percentage reduction might be to put soap
in less than carloads in the fourth class, else why the limitation,
"but not less than fourth class contained in the modified
classification.
We are thus brought to the fundamental question, which is,
did the percentage classification lead to rates which were
unreasonable, unjustly discriminatory or unduly preferential?
If either was the result, the order directing the carriers
to desist from enforcing the classification in question was
proper.
We take up the related questions of discrimination and
preference because the arising of such consequences from the
classification more saliently appear, and because the demonstration of such results is in a measure elucidated by what we
have previously said. Concerning the discrimination the
Commission said:
"Whatever the effect of a percentage less than third class
for less than carload shipments of other commodities, taking
that rating under the classification, may be, it plainly works
discrimination against complainant and other western shippers

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

of soap in less than carload lots, in favor of their competitors
in the East, when the present situation is compared with that
which existed under the old fourth-class rating,

"

And this finding was expressly concurred in by the Circuit
Court. In pointing out the mode by which the modified
classification operated, the result in question, the Commission
said:.
"These differences are due to variations in the scales of rates
prevailing in the different sections. The twenty per cent less
than third-class rating for less than carloads applies to all
shippers of less than carload lots of soap throughout the entire
territory, but it increases some rates more than others, and
leaves some as they were before it was adopted. When, for
example, under the application of that rule, the rate from
Cincinnati to Boston is increased four cents, and the rate from
New York to Boston remains the same, as compared with the
fourth-class rates formerly in effect, it is plain that this method
of determining rates upon a percentage basis operates
unequally
upon the different shippers of less than carload quantities in
that territory."
The statute gives prima facie effect to the findings of the
Commission, and when those findings are concurred in by the
Circuit Court, we 'think they should not be interfered with,
unless the record establishes that. clear and unmistakable
error has been committed. See Cin., N. 0. & Tex. Pac. Railway v. Int. Com. Com., 162 U. S.184, 194; Louisville, &c. Railroad Co. v. Behimer, 175 U. S. 648, 672.
It is insisted that this is a case of that character. How, in
reason, it is urged, can it be said that discrimination or preference, which did not before exist, was or could be produced
from the mere application to the prior rates of a uniform percentage reduction? This, however, obscures the fact that the
20 per cent reduction was not uniform, but was that percentage less than third class, with the qualification "but not less
than fourth class." In other words, the modified percentage
reduction was not a fixed percentage, but was one which might

CINCINNATI &c. RY. CO. v.INTER. COM. COM'N. 155
206.U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

vary, depending upon the result which would be brought about
by applying the rule. Putting, however, entirely aside this
view, let us consider only the result of the working of the rule
on the basis of 20 per cent less than third class. The factors
to be considered are these: a, the relation existing prior to the
going into effect of Official Classification No. 20; b, the operation of that classification over the whole of Official Classification territory; c, the percentage modification of 20 per cent
less than third class as to soap in less than carloads, and also
its operation over the whole territory; and, d, the varying rates
of charges in the separate spheres into which the Official Classification territory was divided, viz., Central Freight Association
territory and the Trunk Line territory. NOw, testing the
matter by these criteria, does it appear, as contended, that the
findings of the Commission and the court, as to resulting
preferences and discrimination, are so contradictory and.
erroneous that we should disregard them? The proposition
that they were must rest upon the assumption that the application of a fixed percentage reduction to existing rates whilst it
might vary them could not possibly change their relation.
But this assumes that the variation which existed between
rates in the different spheres of Official Classification territory
was only a difference in the sum of the rate prevailing in one
territory from that which prevailed in the other as to the same
class. But this is a mistake, since there was also a difference
in. the two separate spheres of territory as to the margin of
difference between the different classes of rates governing in
the two territories. Thus there was in Central Freight Association territory not only a higher rate for commodities in the
third class than prevailed in Trunk Line territory for the same
class, but there was also in the Central Freight Association
territory a wider difference between the rates governing commodities in the third class and those controlling commodities
in the fourth class. It follows from this that where in any
given case the 20 per cent reduction was applied to the increased rate which had arisen from having placed less than

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

206 U. S.

carload soap in the third class, if the application of the full
20 per cent reduction was not sufficient to reduce the amount
to the fourth class, the commodity would pay more than fourth
class. In other words, although the commodity in the case
stated would get the full benefit of the 20 per cent reduction
from the third-class rate, as giving it that benefit did not reduce'
to the fourth-class rate the commodity would yet pay higher
than fourth-class rate. It also follows that if in any case where
the 20 per cent reduction was applied, if the result of applying
it because of the narrowness of the difference between third and
fourth class in that territory operated to reduce the same to
the fourth class, the commodity would be left exactly in the
class in which it stood before, that is, fourth class. By this
it indubitably resulted that in a large degree in one of the subdivisions of the same classification territory soap in less than
carloads remained in fourth class, and in the other took a
higher class. And this illustrates the correctness of the findings
of the Commission and of the court as to the preference resulting
from applying to a territory governed by one classification a
rule of percentage which, while assuming unity, produced
diversity, and which, while asserting equality of class, engendered inequality. Of course, we confine our decision to the
case before us.
And the views heretofore expressed serve also to dispose of
the contention that, although it be conceded that discriminatiof and preference were created, yet the carrier should not have
been ordered to desist from enforcing the modified percentage
classification, because the discrimination and preference, if
any, were not the-result of the operation of that classification,
and, moreover, were not repugnant to the act to regulate commerce, because they were simply the consequence of natural
competitive advantages enjoyed by shippers in the sphere of
the Trunk Line territory, which we:e not possessed by shippers
in that other portion of Official Classification territory, known
as Central Freight Association territory. But this simply involves a restatement of the misconception which we have

CINCINNATI &c. RY. CO. v. INTER. COM. COM'N. 157
206 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

already pointed out. The discriminations and preferences
which the Commission and the court below found to exist were
results arising from the application to the conditions prevailing
in Official Classification territory of the modified percentage
classification. In other words, the order forbidding the enforcement of the modified percentage classification was based on
the finding that that classification disturbed the rate relations
theretofore existing in Official Classification territory and
created preferences and discriminations which would disappear if the further enforcement of the changed classification
was prevented.
This brings us to the final contention made on behalf of the
railway companies, viz., that the order of the Commission was
not lawful, because not within the power conferred by the act
of Congress. This is, we think, largely disposed of by what we
have -previously said as to the nature and scope of the investigation which the Commission was authorized to make and the
redress which it was empowered to give irrespective of the
particular character of the complaint by which its power may
have been previously invoked. Whatever might be the rule
by which to determine whether an order of the Commission
was too general where the case with which the order dealt involved simply,.a discrimination as against an individual or a
discrimination or preference in favor of or against an individual
or a-specific commodity or .commoditie or localities, or as applied to territory subject-to ,differefit classifications,, and we;
think it is clear that the order made in this case was- within
the competency of the Conimission, in view of the -natuie and
character of the wrong found to have been committed and the
redress which that wrong necessitated. Finding, as the Commission did, that-the classification- by percentage of common
soap in less than carload lots operating throughout Official
Classification terkitoty, brought about a general disturbance
of the relations previously existing in that territory, and
created discriminations and preferences among manufacturers
and shippers of the commodity and between localities in such

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

206 U. S.

territory, we think the Commission was clearly within the
authority conferred by the act to regulate commerce in directing the carriers to cease and desist from further enforcing the
classification operating such results.
Affirmed.

YATES v. JONES NATIONAL BANK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 230. Argued March 8, 11, 1907.-Decided May 13, 1907.
If one of the plaintiffs in error does not furnish a cost bond, appear by
counsel, or file any brief in this court, he will be presumed to have abandoned the prosecution of the writ and it will be dismissed as to him.
Where in the trial and appellate courts an immunity was claimed under
ยง 5239, Rev. Stat., as to the rule of liability to be applied to directors
of a national bank and such immunity was denied, this court has jurisdiction to review the judgment under ยง 709, Rev. Stat., even if in other
respects it might not have jurisdiction.
Where a statute creates a duty and prescribes a penalty for its non-performance the rule prescribed by the statute is the exclusive test of liability.
The National Banking Act as embodied in ยง 5239, Rev. Stat., affords the
" exclusive rule by which to measure the right to recover damages from
directors, based upon a loss resulting solely from their violation of a
duty expressly imposed upon them by a provision of the act; and that
liability cannot be measured by a higher standard than that imposed by
the act.
Where by a statute a responsibility is made to arise from its violation
knowingly, proof of something more than negligence is required and that
the violation was in effect intentional.
105 N. W. Rep. 287, reversed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Halleck F. Rose and Mr. J. W. Deweese, with whom
Mr. Frank E. Bishop was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error
in this case and in Nos. 231,232 and 233 argued simultaneously
herewith: 1
I Seep., 181, post.

