OASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1978

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC., ET AL. v. COLUMBIA
BROADCASTING SYSTEM, INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT

No. 77-1578. Argued January 15, 1979-Decided April 17, 1979*
Respondent Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. (CBS), brought this
action against petitioners, American Society of Composers, Authors and
Publishers (ASCAP) and Broadcast Music, Inc. (BMI), and their
members and affiliates, alleging, inter alia, that the issuance by ASCAP
and BMI to CBS of blanket licenses to copyrighted musical compositions at fees negotiated by them is illegal price fixing under the antitrust
laws. Blanket licenses give the licensees the right to perform any and
all of the compositions owned by the members or affiliates as often as
the licensees desire for a stated term. Fees for blanket licenses are
ordinarily a percentage of total revenues or a fiat dollar amount, and
do not directly depend on the amount or type of music used. After a
trial limited to the issue of liability, the District Court dismissed the
complaint, holding, inter alia, that the blanket license was not price
fixing and a per se violation of the Sherman Act. The Court of Appeals
reversed and remanded for consideration of the appropriate remedy,
holding that the blanket license issued to television networks was a form
of price fixing illegal per se under the Sherman Act and established
copyright misuse.
*Together with No. 77-1583, American Society of Composers, Authors
and Publishers et al. v. Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc., et al., also on
certiorari to the same court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Syllabus

441 U. S.

Held: The issuance by ASCAP and BMI of blanket licenses does not constitute price fixing per se unlawful under the antitrust laws. Pp. 7-25.
(a) "It is only after considerable experience with certain business
relationships that courts classify them as per se violations of the Sherman
Act." United States v. Topco Associates, Inc., 405 U. S. 596, 607-608.
And though there has been rather intensive antitrust scrutiny of ASCAP
and BMI and their blanket licenses, that experience hardly counsels that
this Court should outlaw the blanket license as a per se restraint of
trade. Furthermore, the United States, by its amicus brief in the
present case, urges that the blanket licenses, which consent decrees in
earlier actions by the Government authorize ASCAP and BMI to issue
to television networks, are not per se violations of the Sherman Act.
And Congress, in the Copyright Act of 1976, has itself chosen to employ
the blanket license and similar practices. Thus, there is no nearly
universal view that the blanket licenses are a form of price fixing subject
to automatic condemnation under the Sherman Act, rather than to a
careful assessment under the rule of reason generally applied in Sherman
Act cases. Pp. 7-16.
(b) In characterizing the conduct of issuing blanket licenses under the
per se rule, this Court's inquiry must focus on whether the effect and,
here because it tends to show effect, the purpose of the practice are to
threaten the proper operation of a predominantly free-market economy.
The blanket license is not a "naked restrain[t] of trade with no purpose
except stifling of competition," White Motor Co. v. United States, 372
U. S. 253, 263, but rather accompanies the integration of sales, monitoring, and enforcement against unauthorized copyright use, which would
be difficult and expensive problems if left to individual users and
copyright owners. Although the blanket license fee is set by ASCAP
and BMI rather than by competition among individual copyright
owners, and although it is a fee for the use of any of the compositions
covered by the license, the license cannot be wholly equated with a
simple horizontal arrangement among competitors and is quite different
from anything any individual owner could issue. In light of the background, which plainly indicates that over the years, and in the face of
available alternatives including direct negotiation with individual copyright owners, the blanket license has provided an acceptable mechanism
for at least a large part of the market for the performing rights to
copyrighted musical compositions, it cannot automatically be declared
illegal in all of its many manifestations. Rather, it should be subjected
to a more discriminating examination under the rule of reason. Pp.
16-24.

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS
1

Syllabus

(c) The Court of Appeals' judgment holding that the licensing practices of ASCAP and BMI are per se violations of the Sherman Act, and
the copyright misuse judgment dependent thereon, are reversed, and the
case is remanded for further proceedings 'to consider any unresolved
issues that CBS may have properly brought to the Court of Appeals,
including an assessment under the rule of reason of the blanket license
as employed in the television industry. Pp. 24-25.
562 F. 2d 130, reversed and remanded.
WHrrE, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER, C. J.,
and BRENNAN, STEWART, MARSHALL, BLACKMUN, POWELL, and REHNQUIST, JJ., joined. STEVENS, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 25.

Amalya L. Kearse argued the cause for petitioners in No.
77-1578. With her on the briefs were George A. Davidson
and Conley E. Brian, Jr.

Jay Topkis argued the cause for

petitioners in No. 77-1583. With him on the briefs were Bernard Korman, Simon H. Rifkind, Herman Finkelstein, and
Allan Blumstein.
Alan J. Hruska argued the cause for respondents in both
cases. With him on the briefs were John D. Appel and Robert
M. Sondak.
Deputy Solicitor General Easterbrook argued the cause for
the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With him
on the briefs were Solicitor General McCree, Assistant Attorney General Shenefield, William Alsup, John J. Powers III,
and Andrea Limmer.t
fBriefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed by Irwin Karp for
the Authors League of America, Inc.; by Philip Elman and Robert M.
Lichtman for the Performing Right Society, Ltd., et al.; and by Robert H.
Bork for Aaron Copland et al.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed by Ira M. Millstein
for the All-Industry Television Music License Committee; by Clarence
Fried for American Broadcasting Companies, Inc.; by David R. Hyde for
National Broadcasting Company, Inc.; by John H. Midlen, Jr., for National Religious Broadcasters, Inc.; and by John L. Hill, Attorney General
of Texas, David M. Kendall, First Assistant Attorney General, and Robert

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

MR. JUSTICE WHITE

441 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case involves an action under the antitrust and copyright laws brought by respondent Columbia Broadcasting
System, Inc. (CBS), against petitioners, American Society of
Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP) and Broadcast
Music, Inc. (BMI), and their members and affiliates.' The
basic question presented is whether the issuance by ASCAP
and BMI to CBS of blanket licenses to copyrighted musical
compositions at fees negotiated by them is price fixing per se
unlawful under the antitrust laws.

CBS operates one of three national commercial television
networks, supplying programs to approximately 200 affiliated
stations and telecasting approximately 7,500 network programs per year. Many, but not all, of these programs make
use of copyrighted music recorded on the soundtrack. CBS
also owns television and radio stations in various cities. It is
"'the giant of the world in the use of music rights,'" the
"'No. 1 outlet in the history of entertainment.' " 2
Since 1897, the copyright laws have vested in the owner
of a copyrighted musical composition the exclusive right to
perform the work publicly for profit,' but the legal right is
not self-enforcing. In 1914, Victor Herbert and a handful of
other composers organized ASCAP because those who perS. Bickerstaff and Susan Dasher, Assistant Attorneys General, for the Universities of the State of Texas et al.
Irving Moskovitz filed a brief for the All-Industry Radio Music License
Committee as amicus curiae.
1 The District Court certified the case as a defendant class action.
400 F. Supp. 737, 741 n. 2 (SDNY 1975).
2 Id., at 771, quoting a CBS witness.
CBS is also a leading music
publisher, with publishing subsidiaries affiliated with both ASCAP and
BMI, and is the world's largest manufacturer and seller of records and
tapes. Ibid.
3Act of Jan. 6, 1897, 29 Stat. 481.

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS
1

Opinion of the Court

formed copyrighted music for profit were so numerous and
widespread, and most performances so fleeting, that as a practical matter it was impossible for the many individual copyright owners to negotiate with and license the users and to
detect unauthorized uses. "ASCAP was organized as a
'clearing-house' for copyright owners and users to solve these
problems" associated with the licensing of music. 400 F.
Supp. 737, 741 (SDNY 1975). As ASCAP operates today, its
22,000 members grant it nonexclusive rights to license nondramatic performances of their works, and ASCAP issues
licenses and distributes royalties to copyright owners in accordance with a schedule reflecting the nature and amount of
the use of their music and other factors.
BMI, a nonprofit corporation owned by members of the
broadcasting industry,' was organized in 1939, is affiliated with
or represents some 10,000 publishing companies and 20,000
authors and composers, and operates in much the sane manner
as ASCAP. Almost every domestic copyrighted composition
is in the repertory either of ASCAP, with a total of three
million compositions, or of BMI, with one million.
Both organizations operate primarily through blanket licenses, which give the licensees the right to perform any and
all of the compositions owned by the members or affiliates
as often as the licensees desire for a stated term. Fees for
blanket licenses are ordinarily a percentage of total revenues
or a flat dollar amount, and do not directly depend on the
amount or type of music used. Radio and television broadcasters are the largest users of music, and almost all of them
hold blanket licenses from both ASCAP and BMI. Until this
litigation, CBS held blanket licenses from both organizations
for its television network on a continuous basis since the late
1940's and had never attempted to secure any other form of
4 CBS was a leader of the broadcasters who formed BMI, but it disposed
of all of its interest in the corporation in 1959. 400 F. Supp., at 742.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

441 U. S.

license from either ASCAP ' or any of its members. Id., at
752-754.
The complaint filed by CBS charged various violations of
the Sherman Act0 and the copyright laws.' CBS argued that
ASCAP and BMI are unlawful monopolies and that the
blanket license is illegal price fixing, an unlawful tying arrangement, a concerted refusal to deal, and a misuse of copyrights.
The District Court, though denying summary judgment to
certain defendants, ruled that the practice did not fall within
the per se rule. 337 F. Supp. 394, 398 (SDNY 1972). After
an 8-week trial, limited to the issue of liability, the court dismissed the complaint, rejecting again the claim that the
blanket license was price fixing and a per se violation of § 1 of
the Sherman Act, and holding that since direct negotiation
with individual copyright owners is available and feasible
there is no undue restraint of trade, illegal tying, misuse of
copyrights, or monopolization. 400 F. Supp., at 781-783.
Though agreeing with the District Court's factfinding and
not disturbing its legal conclusions on the other antitrust
theories of liability," the Court of Appeals held that the
blanket license issued to television networks was a form of
price fixing illegal per se under the Sherman Act. 562 F. 2d
130, 140 (CA2 1977). This conclusion, without more, settled
the issue of liability under the Sherman Act, established copyright misuse," and required reversal of the District Court's
5Unless the context indicates otherwise, references to .ASCAP alone in
this opinion usually apply to BMI as well. See n. 20, infra.
6 15 U. S. C. §§ 1 and 2.
7 CBS seeks injunctive relief for the antitrust violations and a declaration of copyright misuse. 400 F. Supp., at 741.
1The Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court's rejection of CBS's
monopolization and tying contentions but did not rule on the District
Court's conclusion that the blanket license was not an unreasonable
restraint of trade. See 562 F. 2d 130, 132, 135, 141 n. 29 (CA2 1977).
9 At CBS's suggestion, the Court of Appeals held that the challenged
conduct constituted misuse of copyrights solely on the basis of its finding
of unlawful price fixing. Id., at 141 n. 29.

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS
1

Opinion of the Court

judgmeit, as well as a remand to consider the appropriate

remedy. 0
ASCAP and BMI petitioned for certiorari, presenting the
questions of the applicability of the per se rule and of whether
this constitutes misuse of copyrights. CBS did not cross
petition to challenge the failure to sustain its other antitrust

claims.

We granted certiorari because of the importance of

the issues to the antitrust and copyright laws. 439 U. S.817
(1978). Because we disagree with the Court of Appeals' conclusions with respect to the per se illegality of the blanket
license, we reverse its judgment and remand the cause for

further appropriate proceedings.
II
In construing and applying the Sherman Act's ban against

contracts, conspiracies, and combinations in restraint of trade,
10The Court of Appeals went on to suggest some guidelines

s to
remedy, indicating tliat despite its conclusion on liability the blanket license
was not totally forbidden. The Court of Appeals said:
"Normally, after a finding of price-fixing, the remedy is an injunction
against the price-fixing-in this case, the blanket license. We think, however, that if on remand a remedy can be fashioned which will ensure that
the blanket license will not affect the price or negotiations for direct
licenses, the blanket license need not be prohibited in all circumstances.
The blanket license is not simply a 'naked restraint' ineluctably doomed
to extinction. There is not enough evidence in the present record to
compel a finding that the blanket license does not serve a market need for
those who wish full protection against infringement suits or who, for some
other business reason, deem the blanket license desirable. The blanket
license includes a practical covenant not to sue for infringement of any

ASCAP copyright as well as an indemnification against suits by others.
"Our objection to the blanket license is that it reduces price competition
among the members and provides a disinclination to compete. We think
that these objections may be removed if ASCAP itself is required to
provide some form of per use licensing which will ensure competition
among the individual members with respect to those networks which wish
to engage in per use licensing." Id., at 140 (footnotes omitted).

OCTOBER TERM, 1978

Opinion of the Court

441 U. S.

the Court has held that certain agreements or practices are
so "plainly anticompetitive," National Society of Professional
Engineers v. United States, 435 U. S. 679, 692 (1978); Continental T. V., Inc. v. GTE Sylvania Inc., 433 U. S. 36, 50
(1977), and so often "lack ...any redeeming virtue," Northern Pac. R. Co. v. United States, 356 U. S. 1, 5 (1958), that
they are conclusively presumed illegal without further examination under the rule of reason generally applied in Sherman
Act cases. This per se rule is a valid and useful tool of antitrust policy and enforcement." And agreements among competitors to fix prices on their individual goods or services are
among those concerted activities that the Court has held to be
within the per se category.'
But easy labels do not always
supply ready answers.
A
To the Court of Appeals and CBS, the blanket license involves "price fixing" in the literal sense: the composers and
publishing houses have joined together into an organization
that sets its price for -the blanket license it sells."' But this
11"This principle of per se unreasonableness not only makes the type of
restraints which are proscribed by the Sherman Act more certain to the
benefit of everyone concerned, but it also avoids the necessity for an
incredibly complicated and prolonged economic investigation into the entire
history of the industry involved, as well as related industries, in an effort
to determine at large whether a particular restraint has been unreasonablean inquiry so often wholly fruitless when undertaken." Northern Pac. R.
Co. v. United States, 356 U. S. 1, 5 (1958).
See Continental T. V., Inc. v. GTE Sylvania Inc., 433 U. S. 36, 50 n. 16
(1977); United States v. Topco Associates, Inc., 405 U.S. 596, 609 n. 10
(1972).
'1See cases discussed in n. 14, infra.
13 CBS also complains that it pays a flat fee regardless of the amount of

use it makes of ASCAP compositions and even though many of its programs contain little or no music. We are unable to see how that alone
could make out an antitrust violation or misuse of copyrights:
"Sound business judgment could indicate that such payment represents the
most convenient method of fixing the business value of the privileges

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS
Opinion of the Court

is not a question simply of determining whether two or more
potential competitors have literally "fixed" a "price." As
generally used in the antitrust field, "price fixing" is a shorthand way of describing certain categories of business behavior
to which the per se rule has been held applicable. The Court
of Appeals' literal approach does not alone establish that this
particular practice is one of those types or that it is "plainly
anticompetitive" and very likely without "redeeming virtue."
Literalness is overly simplistic and often overbroad. When
two partners set the price of their goods or services they are
literally "price fixing," but they are not per se in violation of
the Sherman Act. See United States v. Addyston Pipe &
Steel Co., 85 F. 271, 280 (CA6 1898), aff'd, 175 U. S. 211
(1899). Thus, it is necessary to characterize the challenged
conduct as falling within or without that category of behavior
to which we apply the label "per se price fixing." That will
often, but not always, be a simple matter.1 4
Consequently, as we recognized in United States v. Topco
Associates, Inc., 405 U. S. 596, 607-608 (1972), "[i]t is only
after considerable experience with certain business relationships that courts classify them as per se violations . . . ." See
granted by the licensing agreement .... Petitioner cannot complain
because it must pay royalties whether it uses Hazeltine patents or not.
What it acquired by the agreement into which it entered was the privilege
to use any or all of the patents and developments as it desired to use
them." Automatic Radio Mlg. Co. v. Hazeltine 'Research, Inc., 339 U. S.
827, 834 (1950).
See also Zenith Radio Corp. v. Hazeltine Research, Inc., 395 U. S. 100 (1969).
14 Cf., e. g., United States v. McKesson & Robbins, Inc., 351 U. S.305
(1956) (manufacturer/wholesaler agreed with independent wholesalers on
prices to be charged on products it manufactured); United States v.
Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S.150 (1940) (firms controlling a substantial part of an industry agreed to purchase "surplus" gasoline with the
intent and necessary effect of increasing the price) ; United States v.
Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U. S.392 (1927) (manufacturers and distributors of 82% of certain vitreous pottery fixtures agreed to sell at uniform
prices).

OCTOBER TERM, 1978

Opinion of the Court

441 U. S.

White Motor Co. v. United States, 372 U. S. 253, 263 (1963).
We have never examined a practice like this one before;
indeed, the Court of Appeals recognized that "[i]n dealing
with performing rights in the music industry we confront conditions both in copyright law and in antitrust law which are
sui generis." 562 F. 2d, at 132. And though there has been
rather intensive antitrust scrutiny of ASCAP and its blanket
licenses, that experience hardly counsels that we should outlaw the blanket license as a per se restraint of trade.
B
This litigation and other cases involving ASCAP and its
licensing practices have arisen out of the efforts of the creators of copyrighted musical compositions to collect for the
public performance of their works, as they are entitled to do
under the Copyright Act. As already indicated, ASCAP and
BMI originated to make possible and to facilitate dealings.
between copyright owners and those who desire to use their
music. Both organizations plainly involve concerted action
in a large and active line of commerce, and it is not surprising that, as the District Court found, "[n]either ASCAP nor
BMI is a stranger to antitrust litigation." 400 F. Supp., at
743.
The Department of Justice first investigated allegations of
anticompetitive conduct by ASCAP over 50 years ago.15 A
criminal complaint was filed in 1934, but the Government was
granted a midtrial continuance and never returned to the
courtroom. In separate complaints in 1941, the United States
charged that the blanket license, which was then the only
license offered by ASCAP and BMI, was an illegal restraint
of trade and that arbitrary prices were being charged as the
result of an illegal copyright pool.ln The Government sought
25Cohn, Music, Radio Broadcasters and the Sherman Act, 29 Geo. L. J.
407, 424 n. 91 (1941).
6'E. g., complaint in United State8 v. ASCAP, Civ. No. 13-95 (SDNY

1941), pp. 3-4.

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS
1

Opinion of the Court

to enjoin ASCAP's exclusive licensing powers and to require
a different form of licensing by that organization. The case
was settled by a consent decree that imposed tight restrictions
on ASCAP's operations." Following complaints relating to
the television industry, successful private litigation against
ASCAP by movie theaters, 8 and a Government challenge to
ASCAP's arrangements with similar foreign organizations, the
1941 decree was reopened and extensively amended in 1950.1
Under the amended decree, which still substantially controls the activities of ASCAP, members may grant ASCAP
only nonexclusive rights to license their works for public
performance. Members, therefore, retain the rights individually to license public performances, along with the rights to
license the use of their compositions for other purposes.
ASCAP itself is forbidden to grant any license to perform one
or more specified compositions in the ASCAP repertory unless
both the user and the owner have requested it in writing to
do so. ASCAP is required to grant to any user making written application a nonexclusive license to perform all ASCAP
compositions, either for a period of time or on a per-program
basis. ASCAP may not insist on the blanket license, and the
fee for the per-program license, which is to be based on the
revenues for the program on which ASCAP music is played,
must offer the applicant a genuine economic choice between
the per-program license and the more common blanket license.
If ASCAP and a putative licensee are unable to agree on a fee
within 60 days, the applicant may apply to the District Court
1 United States v. ASCAP, 1940-1943 Trade Cases
56,104 (SDNY
1941).
8
'1
See Alden-Rochelle, Inc. v. ASCAP, 80 F. Supp. 888 (SDNY 1948);
M. Witmark & Sons v. Jenson, 80 F. Supp. 843 (Minn. 1948), appeal
dismissed sub nom. M. Witmark & Sans v. Berger Amusement Co., 177 F.
2d 515 (CA8 1949).
19 United States v. ASCAP, 1950-1951 Trade Cases
62,595 (SDNY
1950).

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

441 U. S.

for a determination of a reasonable fee, with ASCAP having
the burden of proving reasonableness."0
The 1950 decree, as amended from time to time, continues
in effect, and the blanket license continues to be the primary
instrument through which ASCAP conducts its business under
the decree. The courts have twice construed the decree not
to require ASCAP to issue licenses for selected portions of its
repertory.2' It also remains true that the decree guarantees
the legal availability of direct licensing of performance rights
by ASCAP members; and the District Court found, and in
this respect the Court of Appeals agreed, that there are no
practical impediments preventing direct dealing by the television networks if they so desire. Historically, they have not
done so. Since 1946, CBS and other television networks have
taken blanket licenses from ASCAP and BMI. It was not
until this suit arose that the CBS network demanded any
22
other kind of license.

BMI is in a similar situation. The original decree against BMI is
reported as United States v. BMI, 1940-1943 Trade Cases 56,096 (ED
Wis. 1941). A new consent judgment was entered in 1966 following a
monopolization complaint filed in 1964. United States v. BMI, 1966 Trade
Cases 71,941 (SDNY). The ASCAP and BMI decrees do vary in
some respects. The BMI decree does not specify that BMI may only
obtain nonexclusive rights from its affiliates or that the District Court
may set the fee if the parties are unable to agree. Nonetheless, the
parties stipulated, and the courts below accepted, that "CBS could secure
direct licenses from BMI affiliates with the same ease or difficulty, as the
case may be, as from ASCAP members." 400 F. Supp., at 745.
21 United States v. ASCAP (Application of Shenandoah Valley Broadcasting, Inc.), 208 F. Supp. 896 (SDNY 1962), aff'd, 331 F. 2d 117 (CA2),
cert. denied, 377 U. S. 997 (1964); United States v. ASCAP (Application
of National Broadcasting Co.), 1971 Trade Cases 73,491 (SDNY 1970).
See also United States v. ASCAP (Motion of Metromedia, Inc.), 341 F.
2d 1003 (CA2 1965).
22 National Broadcasting Co. did, in 1971, request an annual blanket
license for 2,217 specific ASCAP compositions most frequently used on its
variety shows. It intended to acquire the remaining rights to background
and theme music through direct transactions by it and its program pack20

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS

Opinion of the Court

Of course, a consent judgment, even one entered at the
behest of the Antitrust Division, does not immunize the defendant from liability for actions, including those contemplated by the decree, that violate the rights of nonparties.
See Sam Fox Publishing Co. v. United States, 366 U. S. 683,

690 (1961), which involved this same decree. But it cannot
be ignored that the Federal Executive and Judiciary have
carefully scrutinized ASCAP and the challenged conduct, have
imposed restrictions on various of ASCAP's practices, and, by
the terms of the decree, stand ready to provide further consideration, supervision, and perhaps invalidation of asserted
anticompetitive practices." In these circumstances, we have
a unique indicator that the challenged practice may have
redeeming competitive virtues and that the search for those
values is not almost sure to be in vain.2 "

Thus, although

CBS is not bound by the Antitrust Division's actions, the
decree is a fact of economic and legal life in this industry, and
the Court of Appeals should not have ignored it completely
in analyzing the practice. See id., at 694-695. That fact
alone might not remove a naked price-fixing scheme from the
ambit of the per se rule, but, as discussed infra, Part III, here
we are uncertain whether the practice on its face has the
effect, or could have been spurred by the purpose, of restraining competition among the individual composers.
After the consent decrees, the legality of the blanket license
was challenged in suits brought by certain ASCAP members
against individual radio stations for copyright infringement.
The stations raised as a defense that the blanket license was a
form of price fixing illegal under the Sherman Act. The paragers. See United States v. ASCAP (Application of National Broadcasting Co.), supra.
23

1950-1951 Trade Cases

24

Cf. Continental T. V., Inc. v. GTE Sylvania Inc., 433 U. S., at 50 n. 16.

62,595, p. 63,756.

Moreover, unthinking application of the per se rule might upset the
balancing of economic power and of procompetitive and anticompetitive

effects presumably worked out in the decree.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

441 U. S.

ties stipulated that it would be nearly impossible for each
radio station to negotiate with each copyright holder separate
licenses for the performance of his works on radio. Against
this background, and relying heavily on the 1950 consent
judgment, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit rejected
claims that ASCAP was a combination in restraint of trade
and, that the blanket license constituted illegal price fixing.
K-9.1, Inc. v. Gershwin Publishing Corp., 372 F. 2d 1 (1967),
cert. denied, 389 U. S. 1045 (1968).
The Department of Justice, with the principal responsibility
for enforcing the Sherman Act and administering the consent
decrees relevant to this case, agreed with the result reached
by the Ninth Circuit. In a submission amicus curiae opposing one station's petition for certiorari in this Court, the Department stated that there must be "some kind of central
licensing agency by which copyright holders may offer their
works in a common pool to all who wish to use them."
Memorandum for United States as Amicus Curiae on Pet. for
Cert. in K-91, Inc. v. Gershwin Publishing Corp., 0. T. 1967,
No. 147, pp. 10-11. And the Department elaborated on what
it thought that fact meant for the proper application of the
antitrust laws in this area:
"The Sherman Act has always been discriminatingly
applied in the light of economic realities. There are situations in which competitors have been permitted to form
joint selling agencies or other pooled activities, subject to
strict limitations under the antitrust laws to guarantee
against abuse of the collective power thus created. Associated Press v. United States, 326 U. S.1; United States v.
St. Louis Terminal, 224 U. S. 383; Appalachian Coals,
Inc. v. United States, 288 U. S. 344; Chicago Board of
Trade v. United States, 246 U. S. 231. This case appears
to us to involve such a situation. The extraordinary
number of users spread across the land, the ease with
which a performance may be broadcast, the sheer volume

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS
Opinion of the Court

of copyrighted compositions, the enormous quantity of
separate performances each year, the impracticability of
negotiating individual licenses for each composition, and
the ephemeral nature of each performance all combine to
create unique market conditions for performance rights
to recorded music." Id., at 10 (footnote omitted).
The Department concluded that, in the circumstances of that
case, the blanket licenses issued by ASCAP to individual radio
stations were neither a per se violation of the Sherman Act
nor an unreasonable restraint of trade.
As evidenced by its amicus brief in the present case, the
Department remains of that view. Furthermore, the United
States disagrees with the Court of Appeals in this case and
urges that the blanket licenses, which the consent decree authorizes ASCAP to issue to television networks, are not per
se violations of the Sherman Act. It takes no position, however, on whether the practice is an unreasonable restraint of
trade in the context of the network television industry.
Finally, we note that Congress itself, in the new Copyright
Act, has chosen to employ the blanket license and similar
practices. Congress created a compulsory blanket license for
secondary transmissions by cable television systems and provided that "[n] otwithstanding any provisions of the antitrust
laws, . . . any claimants may agree among themselves as to
the proportionate division of compulsory licensing fees amoing
them, may lump their claims together and file them jointly or
as a single claim, or may designate a common agent to receive
payment on their behalf." 17 U. S. C. App. § 111 (d) (5) (A).
And the newly created compulsory license for the use of copyrighted compositions in jukeboxes is also a blanket license,
which is payable to the performing-rights societies such as
ASCAP unless an individual copyright holder can prove his
entitlement to a share. § 116 (c)(4). Moreover, in requiring noncommercial broadcasters to pay for their use of copyrighted music, Congress again provided that "[n]otwithstand-

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

441 U. S.

ing any provision of the antitrust laws" copyright owners
"may designate common agents to negotiate, agree to, pay, or
receive payments." § 118 (b). Though these provisions are
not directly controlling, they do reflect an opinion that the
blanket license, and ASCAP, are economically beneficial in at
least some circumstances.
There have been District Court cases holding various
ASCAP practices, including its licensing practices, to be violative of the Sherman Act,25 but even so, there is no nearly
universal view that either the blanket or the per-program
licenses issued by ASCAP at prices negotiated by it are a form
of price fixing subject to automatic condemnation under the
Sherman Act, rather than to a careful assessment under the
rule of reason.
III
Of course, we are no more bound than is CBS by the views
of the Department of Justice, the results in the prior lower
court cases, or the opinions of various experts about the merits
of the blanket license. But while we must independently examine this practice, all those factors should caution us against
too easily finding blanket licensing subject to per se invalidation.
A
As a preliminary matter, we are mindful that the Court
of Appeals' holding would appear to be quite difficult to contain. If, as the court held, there is a per se antitrust violation
whenever ASCAP issues a blanket license to a television network for a single fee, why would it not also be automatically
illegal for ASCAP to negotiate and issue blanket licenses to
25 See cases cited n. 18, supra. Those cases involved licenses sold to
individual movie theaters to "perform" compositions already on the motion
pictures' soundtracks. ASCAP had barred its members from assigning
performing rights to movie producers at the same time recording rights
were licensed, and the theaters were effectively unable to engage in direct
transactions for performing rights with individual copyright owners.

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS
Opinion of the Court

1

individual radio or television stations or to other users who
perform copyrighted music for profit? 20 Likewise, if the
present network licenses issued through ASCAP on behalf of
its members are per se violations, why would it not be equally
illegal for the members to authorize ASCAP to issue licenses
establishing various categories of uses that a network might
have for copyrighted music and setting a standard fee for
each described use?
Although the Court of Appeals apparently thought the
blanket license could be saved in some or even many applications, it seems to us that the per se rule does not accommodate
itself to such flexibility and that the observations of the Court
of Appeals with respect to remedy tend to impeach the per se
basis for the holding of liability."7
individual television and radio stations, appearing here as
amici curiae, argue that the per se rule should extend to ASCAP's blanket
2GCertain

licenses with them as well. The television stations have filed an antitrust
suit to that effect. Buffalo Broadcasting Co. v. ASCAP, 78 Civ. 5670
(SDNY, filed Nov. 27, 1978).
217See n. 10, supra. The Court of Appeals would apparently not outlaw
the blanket license across the board but would permit it in various
circumstances where it is deemed necessary or sufficiently desirable. It
did not even enjoin blanket licensing with the television networks, the
relief it realized would normally follow a finding of per se illegality of the
license in that context. Instead, as requested by CBS, it remanded to the
District Court to require ASCAP to offer in addition to blanket licensing
some competitive form of per-use licensing. But per-use licensing by
ASCAP, as recognized in the consent decrees, might be even more susceptible to the per se rule than blanket licensing.
The rationale for this unusual relief in a per se case was that "[t]he
blanket license is not simply a 'naked restraint' ineluctably doomed to
extinction." 562 F. 2d, at 140. To the contrary, the Court of Appeals
found that the blanket license might well "serve a market need" for some.
Ibid. This, it seems to us, is not the per se approach, which does not
yield so readily to circumstances, but in effect is a rather bobtailed
application of the rule of reason, bobtailed in the sense that it is unaccompanied by the necessary analysis demonstrating why the particular
licensing system is an undue competitive restraint.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

441 U. S.

CBS would prefer that ASCAP be authorized, indeed directed, to make all its compositions available at standard
per-use rates within negotiated categories of use. 400 F. Supp.,
at 747 n. 7.18 But if this in itself or in conjunction with
blanket licensing constitutes illegal price fixing by copyright
owners, CBS urges that an injunction issue forbidding ASCAP
to issue any blanket license or to negotiate any fee except on
behalf of an individual member for the use of his own copyrighted work or works. "9 Thus, we are called upon to determine
that blanket licensing is unlawful across the board. We are
quite sure, however, that the per se rule does not require any
such holding.
B
In the first place, the line of commerce allegedly being restrained, the performing rights to copyrighted music, exists
at all only because of the copyright laws. Those who would
use copyrighted music in public performances must secure consent from the copyright owner or be liable at least for the
statutory damages for each infringement and, if the conduct
is willful and for the purpose of financial gain, to criminal
penalties. "° Furthermore, nothing in the Copyright Act of
1976 indicates in the slightest that Congress intended to
weaken the rights of copyright owners to control the public
28 Surely, if ASCAP abandoned the issuance of all licenses and confined
its activities to policing the market and suing infringers, it could hardly
be said that member copyright owners would be in violation of the antitrust laws by not having a common agent issue per-use licenses. Under
the copyright laws, those who publicly perform copyrighted music have
the burden of obtaining prior consent. Cf. Zenith Radio Corp. v. Hazeltine Research, Inc., 395 U. S., at 139-140.
29 In its complaint, CBS alleged that it would be "wholly impracticable"
for it to obtain individual licenses directly from the composers and
publishing houses, but it now says that it would be willing to do exactly
that if ASCAP were enjoined from granting blanket licenses to CBS or its
competitors in the network television business.
80 17 U. S. C. App. § 506.

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS
Opinion of the Court

performance of musical compositions. Quite the contrary is
true.3" Although the copyright laws confer no rights on copyright owners to fix prices among themselves or otherwise to
violate the antitrust laws, we would not expect that any market arrangements reasonably necessary to effectuate the rights
that are granted would be deemed a per se violation of the
Sherman Act. Otherwise, the commerce anticipated by the
Copyright Act and protected against restraint by the Sherman

Act would not exist at all or would exist only as a pale
reminder of what Congress envisioned. 2
C
More generally, in characterizing this conduct under the
per se rule,33 our inquiry must focus on whether the effect and,

here because it tends to show effect, see United States v.
United States Gypsum Co., 438 U. S. 422, 436 n. 13 (1978),
the purpose of the practice are to threaten the proper operation
of our predominantly free-market economy-that is, whether
the practice facially appears to be one that would always or
31 See Koenigsbcrg, The 1976 Copyright Act: Advances for the Creator,
26 Cleve. St. L. Rev. 515, 524, 528 (1977).
32 Cf. Silver v. New York Stock Exchange, 373 U. S. 341 (1963).
Because a musical composition can be "consumed" by many different
people at the same time and without the creator's knowledge, the "owner"
has no real way to demand reimbursement for the use of his property
except through the copyright laws and an effective way to enforce those
legal rights. See Twentieth Century Music Corp. v. Aiken, 422 U. S. 151,
162 (1975). It takes an organization of rather large size to monitor most
or all uses and to deal with users on behalf of the composers. Moreover,
it is inefficient to have too many such organizations duplicating each
other's monitoring of use.
33 The scrutiny occasionally required must not merely subsume the
burdensome analysis rcquired under the rule of reason, see National Society
of Professional Engineers v. United States, 435 U. S. 679, 690-692 (1978),
or else we should apply the rule of reason from the start. That is why
the per se rule is not employed until after considerable experience with the
type of challenged restraint.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

441 U. S.

almost always tend to restrict competition and decrease output,
and in what portion of the market, or instead one designed to
"increase economic efficiency and render markets more, rather
than less, competitive." Id., at 441 n. 16; see NationalSociety
of ProfessionalEngineers v. United States, 435 U. S., at 688;
Continental T. V., Inc. v. GTE Sylvania Inc., 433 U. S., at 50
n. 16; Northern Pac. R. Co. v. United States, 356 U. S., at 4.
The blanket license, as wesee it, is not a "naked restrain [t]
of trade with no purpose except stifling of competition,"
White Motor Co. v. United States, 372 U. S. 253, 263 (1963),
but rather accompanies the integration of sales, monitoring,
and enforcement against unauthorized copyright use. See L.
Sullivan, Handbook of the Law of Antitrust § 59, p. 154 (1977).
As we have already indicated, ASCAP and the blanket license
developed together out of the practical situation in the marketplace: thousands of users, thousands of copyright owners,
and millions of compositions. Most users want unplanned,
rapid, and indemnified access to any and all of the repertory of
compositions, and the owners want a reliable method of collecting for the use of their copyrights. Individual sales transactions in this industry are quite expensive, as would be individual monitoring and enforcement, especially in light of the
resources of single composers. Indeed, as both the Court of
Appeals and CBS recognize, the costs are prohibitive for
licenses with individual radio stations, nightclubs, and restaurants, 562 F. 2d, at 140 n. 26, and it was in that milieu that the
blanket license arose.
A middleman with a blanket license was an obvious necessity if the thousands of individual negotiations, a virtual impossibility, were to be avoided. Also, individual fees for the
use of individual compositions would presuppose an intricate
schedule of fees and uses, as well as a difficult and expensive
reporting problem for the user and policing task for the copyright owner. Historically, the market for public-performance
rights organized itself largely around the single-fee blanket

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS
1

Opinion of the Court

license, which gave unlimited access to the repertory and reliable protection against infringement. When ASCAP's major
and user-created competitor, BMI, came on the scene, it also
turned to the blanket license.
With the advent of radio and television networks, market
conditions changed, and the necessity for and advantages of a
blanket license for those users may be far less obvious than is
the case when the potential users are individual television or
radio stations, or the thousands of other individuals and
organizations performing copyrighted compositions in public. 4
But even for television network licenses, ASCAP reduces costs
absolutely by creating a blanket license that is sold only a few,
instead of thousands," of times, and that obviates the need
for closely monitoring the networks to see that they do not
use more than they pay for.3" ASCAP also provides the
necessary resources for blanket sales and enforcement, resources unavailable to the vast majority of composers and
publishing houses. Moreover, a bulk license of some type is
a necessary consequence of the integration necessary to
achieve these efficiencies, and a necessary consequence of an
aggregate license is that its price must be established.
D
This substantial lowering of costs, which is of course potentially beneficial to both sellers and buyers, differentiates
the blanket license from individual use licenses. The blanket
license is composed of the individual compositions plus the
aggregating service. Here, the whole is truly greater than the
4 And of course changes brought about by new technology or new

marketing techniques might also undercut the justification for the practice.
31 The District Court found that CBS would require between 4,000 and
8,000 individual license transactions per year. 400 F. Supp., at 762.
30 To operate its system for distributing the license revenues to its
members, ASCAP relies primarily on the networks' records of which
compositions are used.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

441 U. S.

sum of its parts; it is, to some extent, a different product.
The blanket license has certain unique characteristics: It
allows the licensee immediate use of covered compositions,
without the delay of prior individual negotiations, 7 and great
flexibility in the choice of musical material. Many consumers
clearly prefer the characteristics and cost advantages of this
marketable package,38 and even small performing-rights societies that have occasionally arisen to compete with ASCAP
Thus, to the extent
and BMI have offered blanket licenses."
the blanket license is a different product, ASCAP is not really
a joint sales agency offering the individual goods of many
sellers, but is a separate seller offering its blanket license, of
which the individual compositions are raw material." ASCAP,
See Timberg, The Antitrust Aspects of Merchandising Modern Music:
The ASCAP Consent Judgment of 1950, 19 Law & Contemp. Prob. 294,
297 (1954) ("The disk-jockey's itchy fingers and the bandleader's restive
baton, it is said, cannot wait for contracts to be drawn with ASCAP's
individual publisher members, much less for the formal acquiescence of a
characteristically unavailable composer or author"). Significantly, ASCAP
deals only with nondramatic performance rights. Because of their nature,
dramatic rights, such as for musicals, can be negotiated individually and
well in advance of the time of performance. The same is true of various
other rights, such as sheet music, recording, and synchronization, which
are licensed on an individual basis.
38 Cf. United States v. Grinnell Corp., 384 U. S. 563, 572-573 (1966);
United States v. Philadelphia Nat. Bank, 374 U. S. 321, 356-357 (1963).
1 Comment, Music Copyright Associations and the Antitrust Laws, 25
Ind. L. J. 168, 170 (1950). See also Garner, United States v. ASCAP:
The Licensing Provisions of the Amended Final Judgment of 1950, 23
Bull. Copyright Soc. 119, 149 (1975) ("no performing rights are licensed
on other than a blanket basis in any nation in the world").
40 Moreover, because of the nature of the product-a composition can
be simultaneously "consumed" by many users-composers have numerous
markets and numerous incentives to produce, so the blanket license is
unlikely to cause decreased output, one of the normal undesirable effects of
a cartel. And since popular songs get an increased share of ASCAP's
revenue distributions, composers compete even within the blanket license in
terms of productivity and consumer satisfaction.
37

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS
I

Opinion of the Court

in short, made a market in which individual composers are
inherently unable to compete fully effectively.' 1
E
Finally, we have some doubt-enough to counsel against application of the per se rule-about the extent to which this practice threatens the "central nervous system of the economy,"
United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150, 226 n.
59 (1940), that is, competitive pricing as the free market's
means of allocating resources. Not all arrangements among
actual or potential competitors that have an impact on price
are per se violations of the Sherman Act or even unreasonable
restraints. Mergers among competitors eliminate competition,
including price competition, but they are not per se illegal, and
many of them withstand attack under any existing antitrust
standard. Joint ventures and other cooperative arrangements
are also not usually unlawful, at least not as price-fixing
schemes, where the agreement on price is necessary to market
the product at all.
Here, the blanket-license fee is not set by competition
among individual copyright owners, and it is -a fee for the
use of any of the compositions covered by the license. But
the blanket license cannot be wholly equated with a simple
horizontal arrangement among competitors. ASCAP does set
the price for its blanket license, but that license is quite different from anything any individual owner could issue. The
individual composers and authors have neither agreed not
to sell individually in any other market nor use the blanket
41 Cf. United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S., at 217
(distinguishing Chicago Bd. of Trade v. United States, 246 U. S. 231
(1918), on the ground that among the effects of the challenged rule there
"was the creation of a public market"); United States v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U. S., at 401 (distinguishing Chicago Bd. of Trade on the
ground that it did not involve "a price agreement among competitors in
an open market").

OCTOBER TERM, 1978

Opinion of the Court

441 U. S.

license to mask price fixing in such other markets.' Moreover, the substantial restraints placed on ASCAP and its
members by the consent decree must not be ignored. The
District Court found that there was no legal, practical, or
conspiratorial impediment to CBS's obtaining individual licenses; CBS, in short, had a real choice.
With this background in mind, which plainly enough indicates that over the years, and in the face of available alternatives, the blanket license has provided an acceptable mechanism for at least a large part of the market for the performing
rights to copyrighted musical compositions, we cannot agree
that it should automatically be declared illegal in all of its
many manifestations. Rather, when attacked, it should be
subjected to a more discriminating examination under the rule
of reason. It may not ultimately survive that attack, but
that is not the issue before us today.

Iv
As we have noted, n. 27, supra, the enigmatic remarks of the
Court of Appeals with respect to remedy appear to have
departed from the court's strict, per se approach and to have
invited a more careful analysis. But this left the general
import of its judgment that the licensing practices of ASCAP
and BMI under the consent decree are per se violations of the
Sherman Act. We reverse tflat judgment, and the copyright
misuse judgment dependent upon it, see n. 9, supra, and
remand for further proceedings to consider any unresolved
issues that CBS may have properly brought to the Court of
Appeals."3 Of course, this will include an assessment under
42 "CBS does not claim that the individual members and affiliates
('sellers') of ASCAP and BMI have agreed among themselves as to the
prices to be charged for the particular 'products' (compositions) offered
by each of them." 400 F. Supp., at 748.
43 It is argued that the judgment of the Court of Appeals should nevertheless be affirmed on the ground that the blanket license is a tying

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS
1

STEVENS,

J., dissenting

the rule of reason of the blanket license as employed in the
television industry, if that issue was preserved by CBS in the
Court of Appeals."'
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the
cases are remanded to that court for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, dissenting.

The Court holds that ASCAP's blanket license is not a
species of price fixing categorically forbidden by the Sherman
Act. I agree with that holding. The Court remands the
cases to the Court of Appeals, leaving open the question
whether the blanket license as employed by ASCAP and BMI
is unlawful under a rule-of-reason inquiry. I think that
question is properly before us now and should be answered
affirmatively.
There is ample precedent for affirmance of the judgment of
the Court of Appeals on a ground that differs from its rationale, provided of course that we do not modify its judgment."
In this litigation, the judgment of the Court of Appeals was
arrangement in violation of § 1 of the Sherman Act or on the ground
that ASCAP and BMI have monopolized the relevant market contrary to
§ 2. The District Court and the Court of Appeals rejected both
submissions, and we do not disturb the latter's judgment in these respects,
particularly since CBS did not file its own petition for certiorari challenging the Court of Appeals' failure to sustain its tying and monopolization
claims.
"The Court of Appeals did not address the rule-of-reason issue, and
BMI insists that CBS did not preserve the question in that court. In any
event, if the issue is open in the Court of Appeals, we prefer that that
court first address the matter. Because of the United States' interest in the
enforcement of the consent decree, we assume it will continue to play a
role in this litigation on remand.
I See United States v. New York Telephone Co., 434 U. S. 159, 166 n. 8;
Dayton Board of Education v. Brinkman, 433 U. S. 406, 419; Massachusetts Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Ludwig, 426 U. S. 479, 480-481;. United States
v. American Railway Ezpress Co., 265 U. S. 425, 435.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
STEvEiNs, J., dissenting

441 U. S.

not that blanket licenses may never be offered by ASCAP
and BMI. Rather, its judgment directed the District Court
to fashion relief requiring them to offer additional forms of
license as well.2 Even though that judgment may not be
consistent with its stated conclusion that the blanket license
is "illegal per se" as a kind of price fixing, it is entirely consistent with a conclusion that petitioners' exclusive all-ornothing blanket-license policy violates the rule of reason.
The Court of Appeals may well so decide on remand. In
my judgment, however, a remand is not necessary.' The
record before this Court is a full one, reflecting extensive
discovery and eight weeks of trial. The District Court's findings of fact are thorough and well supported. They clearly
reveal that the challenged policy does have a significant
adverse impact on competition. I would therefore affirm the
judgment of the Court of Appeals.
I
In December 1969, the president of the CBS television
network wrote to ASCAP and BMI requesting that each
"promptly ... grant a new performance rights license which
2

562 F. 2d 130, 140-141 (CA2 1977).

8See ante, at 17 n. 27 (describing relief ordered by Court of Appeals as
"unusual" for a per se case, and suggesting that that court's decision appears more consistent with a rule-of-reason approach).
4 That the rule-of-reason issues have been raised and preserved throughout seems to me clear. See 562 F. 2d, at 134. ("CBS contends that the
blanket licensing method is not only an illegal tie-in or blockbooking which
in practical terms is coercive in effect, but is also an illegal price-fixing
device, a per se violation . . . "); id., at 141 n. 29 ("As noted, CBS also
claims violation of § 2 of the Sherman Act. We need not go into the legal
arguments on this point because they are grounded on its factual claim
that there are barriers to direct licensing and 'bypass' of the ASCAP
blanket license. The District Court, as noted, rejected this contention and
its findings are not clearly erroneous. The § 2 claim must therefore fail
at this time and on this record"); Brief for Respondents 41.

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS
1

.STEVENS,

J.,

dissenting

will provide, effective January 1, 1970, for payments measured
by the actual use of your music."'
ASCAP and BMI each
responded by stating that it considered CBS's request to be an
application for a license in accordance with the provisions of
its consent decree and would treat it as such,' even though
neither decree provides for licensing on a per-composition or
per-use basis.' Rather than pursuing further discussion, CBS
instituted this suit.
Whether or not the CBS letter is considered a proper
demand for per-use licensing is relevant, if at all, only on the
question of relief. For the fact is, and it cannot seriously be
questioned, that ASCAP and BMI have steadfastly adhered
to the policy of only offering overall blanket or per-program
licenses, 8 notwithstanding requests for more limited authorizations. Thus, ASCAP rejected a 1971 request by NBC for
licenses for 2,217 specific compositions,' as well as an earlier
request by a group of television stations for more limited
authority than the blanket licenses which they were then
5400 F. Supp. 737, 753 (SDNY 1975).
0ASCAP responded in a letter from its general counsel, stating that it
would consider the request at its next board of directors meeting, and that
it regarded it as an application for a license consistent with the decree.
The letter from BMI's president stated: "The BMI Consent Decree provides for several alternative licenses and we are ready to explore any of
these with you." Id., at 753-754.
'See ante, at 12, and n. 21.
8 The 1941 decree requires ASCAP to offer per-program licenses as an
alternative to the blanket license. United States v. ASCAP, 1940-1943
Trade Cases 1 56,104, p. 404 (SDNY). Analytically, however, there is little
difference between the two. A per-program license also covers the entire
ASCAP repertoire; it is therefore simply a miniblanket license. As is
true of a long-term blanket license, the fees set are in no way dependent
on the quantity or quality of the music used. See infra, at 30-33.
0 See United States v. ASCAP (Application of National Broadcasting

Co.), 1971 Trade Cases

73,491 (SDNY 1970).

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

441 U. S.

purchasing."
Neither ASCAP nor BMI has ever offered to
license anything less than its entire portfolio, even on an
experimental basis. Moreover, if the response to the CBS
letter were not sufficient to characterize their consistent policy,
the defense of this lawsuit surely is. It is the refusal to
license anything less than the entire repertoire-rather than
the decision to offer blanket licenses themselves-that raises
the serious antitrust questions in this case.
II
Under our prior cases, there would be no question about the
illegality of the blanket-only licensing policy if ASCAP and
BMI were the exclusive sources of all licenses. A copyright,
like a patent, is a statutory grant of monopoly privileges.
The rules which prohibit a patentee from enlarging his statutory monopoly by conditioning a license on the purchase of
unpatented goods,11 or by refusing to grant a license under one
patent unless the licensee also takes a license under another,
are equally applicable to copyrights."
It is clear, however, that the mere fact that the holder of
several patents has granted a single package license covering
them all does not establish any illegality. This point was
settled by Automatic Radio Mfg. Co. v. Hazeltine Research,
Inc., 339 U. S. 827, 834, and reconfirmed in Zenith Radio Corp.
10 See United States v. ASCAP (Application of Shenandoah Valley

Broadcasting, Inc.), 208 F. Supp. 896 (SDNY 1962), aff'd, 331 F. 2d 117
(CA2 1964), cert. denied, 377 U. S. 997.
11 Mercoid Corp. v. Mid-Continent Investment Co., 320 U. S. 661;
Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436; Internationa Business Machines Corp. v. United States, 298 U. S. 131; United Shoe
Machinery Corp. v. United States, 258 U. S. 451.
12 Indeed, the leading cases condemning the practice of "blockbooking"

involved copyrighted motion pictures, rather than patents. See United
States v. Paramount Pictures, 334 U. S. 131; United States v. Loew's Inc.,
371 U. S. 38.

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS

1

STFVENS,

J., dissenting

v. Hazeltine Research, Inc., 395 U. S. 100, 137-138. The
Court is therefore unquestionably correct in its conclusion that
ASCAP's issuance of blanket licenses covering its entire inventory is not, standing alone, automatically unlawful. But
both of those cases identify an important limitation on this
rule. In the former, the Court was careful to point out that
the record did not present the question whether the package
license would have been unlawful if Hazeltine had refused to
license on any other basis. 339 U. S., at 831. And in the
latter case, the Court held that the package license was illegal
because of such a refusal. 395 U. S., at 140-141.
Since ASCAP offers only blanket licenses, its licensing
practices fall on the illegal side of the line drawn by the two
Hazeltine cases. But there is a significant distinction: unlike
Hazeltine, ASCAP does not have exclusive control of the
copyrights in its portfolio, and it is perfectly possible-at least
as a legal matter-for a user of music to negotiate directly
with composers and publishers for whatever rights he may
desire. The availability of a practical alternative alters the
competitive effect of a blockbooking or blanket-licensing policy.
ASCAP is therefore quite correct in its insistence that its
blanket license cannot be categorically condemned on the
authority of the blockbooking and package-licensing cases.
While these cases are instructive, they do not directly answer
the question whether the ASCAP practice is unlawful.
The answer to that question depends on an evaluation of
the effect of the practice on competition in the relevant market. And, of course, it is well settled that a sales practice that
is permissible for a small vendor, at least when no coercion is
present, may be unreasonable when employed by a company
that dominates the market. 3 We therefore must consider
13 See Tampa Electric Co. v. Nashville Coal Co., 365 U. S.320, 334
(upholding requirements contract on the ground that "[t]here is here

neither a seller with a dominant position in the market as in Standard

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
STuvss, J., dissenting

441 U. S.

what the record tells us about the competitive character of
this market.
III
The market for music at issue here is wholly dominated by
ASCAP-issued blanket licenses.1 Virtually every domestic
copyrighted composition is in the repertoire of either ASCAP
or BMI. And again, virtually without exception, the only
means that has been used to secure authority to perform such

compositions is the blanket license.
The blanket all-or-nothing license is patently discriminatory.1

The user purchases full access to ASCAP's entire

Fashion [Co. v. Magrane-Houston Co., 258 U. S. 346]; nor myriad outlets with substantial sales volume, coupled with an industry-wide practice
of relying upon exclusive contracts, as in Standard Oil [Co. v. United
States, 337 U. S. 293]; nor a plainly restrictive tying arrangement as
in International Salt [Co. v. United States, 332 U. S.392]"); TimesPicayune Publishing Co. v. United States, 345 U. S. 594, 610-612 (upholding challenged advertising practice because, while the volume of
commerce affected was not "'insignificant or insubstantial,'" seller was
found not to occupy a "dominant position" in the relevant market).
While our cases make clear that a violation of the Sherman Act requires
both that the volume of commerce affected be substantial and that the
seller enjoy a dominant position, see id., at 608-609, proof of actual compulsion has not been required, but cf. Royster Drive-In Theatres, Inc. v.
American Broadcasting-Paramount Theatres, Inc., 268 F. 2d 246, 251
(CA2 1959), cert. denied, 361 U. S. 885; Milwaukee Towne Corp. v. Loew's,
Inc., 190 F. 2d 561 (CA7 1951), cert. denied, 342 U. S. 909. The critical
question is one of the likely practical effect of the arrangement: whether
the "court believes it probable that performance of the contract will foreclose competition in a substantial share of the line of commerce affected."
Tampa Electric Co. v. Nashville Coal Co., supra, at 327.
14 As in the majority opinion, my references to ASCAP generally encompass BMI as well.
18 See Cirace, CBS v. ASCAP: An Economic Analysis of A Political
Problem, 47 Ford. L. Rev. 277, 286 (1978) ("the all-or-nothing bargain
allows the monopolist to reap the benefits of perfect price discrimination
without confronting the problems posed by dealing with different buyers
on different terms").

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS

1

STEVENS,

J., dissenting

repertoire, even though his needs could be satisfied by a far
more limited selection. The price he pays for this access is
unrelated either to the quantity or the quality of the music he
actually uses, or, indeed, to what he would probably use in a
competitive system. Rather, in this unique all-or-nothing
system, the price is based on a percentage of the user's advertising revenues," a measure that reflects the customer's ability
to pay 1 but is totally unrelated to factors--such as the cost,
quality, or quantity of the product-that normally affect price
in a competitive market. The ASCAP system requires users
to buy more music than they want at a price which, while not
beyond their ability to pay and perhaps not even beyond what
is "reasonable" for the access they are getting,1 8 may well be
far higher than what they would choose to spend for music in
16 For many years prior to the commencement of this action, the BMI
blanket-license fee amounted to 1.09% of net receipts from sponsors after
certain specified deductions. 400 F. Supp., at 743. The fee for access to
ASCAP's larger repertoire was set at 2.5% of net receipts; in recent years,
however, CBS has paid a flat negotiated fee, rather than a percentage, to
ASCAP. 23 Jt. App. in CA2 No. 75-7600, pp. E1051-E1052, E1135.
17 See Cirace, supra, at 288:
"This history indicates that, from its inception, ASCAP exhibited a tendency to discriminate in price. A license fee based upon a percentage of
gross revenue is discriminatory in that it grants the same number of rights
to different licensees for different total dollar amounts, depending upon
their ability to pay. The effectiveness of price discrimination is significantly enhanced by the all-or-nothing blanket license."
16 Under the ASCAP consent decree, on receipt of an application,
ASCAP is required to "advise the applicant in writing of the fee which it
deems reasonable for the license requested." If the parties are unable to
agree on the fee within 60 days of the application, the applicant may apply
to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New
York for the determination of a "reasonable fee." United States v.
ASCAP, 1950-1951 Trade Cases 62,595, p. 63,754 (SDNY 1950). The
BMI decree contains no similar provision for judicial determination of a
reasonable fee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
STEVE .S,

J., dissenting

441 U. S.

a competitive system. It is a classic example of economic
discrimination.
The record plainly establishes that there is no price competition between separate musical compositions."9 Under a
blanket license, it is no more expensive for a network to play
the most popular current hit in prime time than it is to use an
unknown composition as background music in a soap opera.
Because the cost to the user is unaffected by the amount used
on any program or on all programs, the user has no incentive
to economize by, for example, substituting what would otherwise be less expensive songs for established favorites or by
reducing the quantity of music used on a program. The
blanket license thereby tends to encourage the use of more
music, and also of a larger share of what is really more
valuable music, than would be expected in a competitive
system characterized by separate licenses. And since revenues
are passed on to composers on a basis reflecting the character
and frequency of the use of their music, 2 the tendency is
to increase the rewards of the established composers at the
expense of those less well known. Perhaps the prospect is
in any event unlikely, but the blanket license does not
present a new songwriter with any opportunity to try to
"oASCAP's economic expert, Robert Nathan, was unequivocal on this
point:
"Q. Is there price competition under this system between separate musical
compositions?
"A. No sir." Tr. 3983.
20See 562 F. 2d, at 136 n. 15.
In determining royalties ASCAP distinguishes between feature, theme, and background uses of music. The
1950 amended decree requires ASCAP to distribute royalties on "a basis
which gives primary consideration to the performance of the compositions."
The 1960 decree provided for the additional option of receiving royalties
under a deferred plan which provides additional compensation based on
length of membership and the recognized status of the individual's works.
See United States v. ASCAP, 1960 Trade Cases 1[69,612, pp. 76,469-76,470
(SDNY 1960).

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS
1

STEVENS,

J., dissenting

break into the market by offering his product for sale at an
unusually low price. The absence of that opportunity, however unlikely it may be, is characteristic of a cartelized rather
than a competitive market.21
The current state of the market cannot be explained on the
ground that it could not operate competitively, or that issuance of more limited-and thus less restrictive-licenses by
ASCAP is not feasible. The District Court's findings disclose
no reason why music-performing rights could not be negotiated on a per-composition or per-use basis, either with the
composer or publisher directly or with an agent such as
ASCAP. In fact, ASCAP now compensates composers and
publishers on precisely those bases. 2 If distributions of royalties can be calculated on a per-use and per-composition basis,
it is difficult to see why royalties could not also be collected in
the same way. Moreover, the record also shows that where
ASCAP's blanket-license scheme does not govern, competitive
markets do. A competitive market for "synch" rights exists, 3
and after the use of blanket licenses in the motion picture

industry was discontinued,24 such a market promptly developed
in that industry."1 In sum, the record demonstrates that the
market at issue here is one that could be highly competitive,
but is not competitive at all.
21 See generally 2 P. Areeda & D. Turner, Antitrust Law 280-281, 342345 (1978); Cirace, supra n. 15, at 286-292.
12 See n. 20, supra.
2 The "synch" right is the right to record a copyrighted song in synchronization with the film or videotape, and is obtained separately from
the right to perform the music. It is the latter which is controlled by
ASCAP and BMI. See CBS, Inc. v. ASCAP, 400 F. Supp., at 743.
24 See Alden-Rochelle, Inc. v. ASCAP, 80 F. Supp. 888 (SDNY 1948).
25 See 400 F. Supp., at 759-763; 5 Jt. App. in CA2 No. 75-7600, pp.
775-777 (testimony of Albert Berman, managing director of the Harry Fox
Agency, Inc.). Television synch rights and movie performance and synch
rights are handled by the Fox Agency, which serves as the broker for
thousands of music publishers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
STmVNB, J., dissenting

441 U. S.

IV
Since the record describes a market that could be competitive and is not, and since that market is dominated by two
firms engaged in a single, blanket method of dealing, it surely
seems logical to conclude that trade has been restrained unreasonably. ASCAP argues, however, that at least as to CBS,
there has been no restraint at all since the network is free to
deal directly with copyright holders.
The District Court found that CBS had failed to establish
that it was compelled to take a blanket license from ASCAP.
While CBS introduced evidence suggesting that a significant
number of composers and publishers, satisfied as they are with
the ASCAP system, would be "disinclined" to deal directly
with the network, the court found such evidence unpersuasive
in light of CBS's substantial market power in the music industry and the importance to copyright holders of network
television exposure."' Moreover, it is arguable that CBS could
go further and, along with the other television networks, use
its economic resources to exploit destructive competition
among purveyors of music by driving the price of performance
rights down to a far lower level. But none of this demonstrates that ASCAP's practices are lawful, or that ASCAP
cannot be held liable for injunctive relief at CBS's request.
The fact that CBS has substantial market power does not
deprive it of the right to complain when trade is restrained.
Large buyers, as well as small, are protected by the antitrust
laws. Indeed, even if the victim of a conspiracy is himself a
wrongdoer, he has not forfeited the protection of the law.2"
Moreover, a conclusion that excessive competition would cause
one side of the market more harm than good may justify a
legislative exemption from the antitrust laws, but does not
2

0See 400 F. Supp., at 767-771.

2

1See Perma Life Mufflers, Inc. v. International Parts Corp., 392 U. S.
134, 138-140; Simpson v. Union Oil Co., 377 U. S. 13, 16-17; KieferStewart Co. v. Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc., 340 U. S. 211, 214.

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS

1

STEVENS,

J., dissenting

constitute a defense to a violation of the Sherman Act. 8
Even though characterizing CBS as an oligopolist may be
relevant to the question of remedy, and even though free
competition might adversely affect the income of a good many
composers and publishers, these considerations do not affect
the legality of ASCAP's conduct.
More basically, ASCAP's underlying argument that CBS
must be viewed as having acted with complete freedom in
choosing the blanket license is not supported by the District
Court's findings. The District Court did not find that CBS
could cancel its blanket license "tomorrow" and continue to
use music in its programming and compete with the other
networks. Nor did the District Court find that such a course
was without any risk or expense. Rather, the District Court's
finding was that within a year, during which it would continue to pay some millions of dollars for its annual blanket
license, CBS would be able to develop the needed machinery
and enter into the necessary contracts." In other words,
although the barriers to direct dealing by CBS as an alternative to paying for a blanket license are real and significant,
they are not insurmountable.
Far from establishing ASCAP's immunity from liability,
these District Court findings, in my judgment, confirm the
illegality of its conduct. Neither CBS nor any other user
has been willing to assume the costs and risks associated with
an attempt to purchase music on a competitive basis. The
fact that an attempt by CBS to break down the ASCAP
monopoly might well succeed does not preclude the conclusion
that smaller and less powerful buyers are totally foreclosed
from a competitive market."0 Despite its size, CBS itself
See National Society of Professional Engineers v. United States, 435
U. S. 679, 689-690.
28

See 400 F. Supp., at 762-765.
For an individual user, the transaction costs involved in direct dealing
with individual copyright holders may well be prohibitively high, at least
20

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

441 U. S.

may not obtain music on a competitive basis without incurring unprecedented costs and risks. The fear of unpredictable consequences, coupled with the certain and predictable
costs and delays associated with a change in its method
of purchasing music, unquestionably inhibits any CBS management decision to embark on a competitive crusade. Even
if ASCAP offered CBS a special bargain to forestall any such
crusade, that special arrangement would not cure the marketwide restraint.
Whatever management decision CBS should or might have
made, it is perfectly clear that the question whether competition in the market has been unduly restrained is not one that
any single company's management is authorized to answer.
It is often the case that an arrangement among competitors
will not serve to eliminate competition forever, but only to
delay its appearance or to increase the costs of new entry.
That may well be the state of this market. Even without
judicial intervention, the ASCAP monopoly might eventually
be broken by CBS, if the benefits of doing so outweigh the
significant costs and risks involved in commencing direct dealing." But that hardly means that the blanket-]icensing
in the absence of any broker or agency routinely handling such requests.
Moreover, the District Court found that writers and publishers support

and prefer the ASCAP system to direct dealing. Id., at 767. While their
apprehension at direct dealing with CBS could be overcome, the District
Court found, by CBS's market power and the importance o'f
television
exposure, a similar conclusion is far less likely with respect to other users.
1'The risks involved in such a venture appear to be substantial. One

significant risk, which may be traced directly to ASCAP and its members,
relates to music "in the can"-music which has been performed on shows
and movies already in the network's inventory, but for which the network
must still secure performing rights. The networks accumulate substantial
inventories of shows "in the can." And, as the Government has pointed
out as amicus curiae:
"If they [the networks and television stations] were to discontinue the
blanket license, they then would be required to obtain performance rights

BROADCAST MUSIC, INC. v. CBS
I

STEVENS,

J., dissenting

policy at issue here is lawful. An arrangement that produces
marketwide price discrimination and significant barriers to
entry unreasonably restrains trade even if the discrimination
and the barriers have only a limited life expectancy. History
suggests, however, that these restraints have an enduring
character.
Antitrust policy requires that great aggregations of economic
power be closely scrutinized. That duty is especially important when the aggregation is composed of statutory monopoly
privileges. Our cases have repeatedly stressed the need to
limit the privileges conferred by patent and copyright strictly
to the scope of the statutory grant. The record in this case
plainly discloses that the limits have been exceeded and that
ASCAP and BMI exercise monopoly powers that far exceed
the sum of the privileges of the individual copyright holders.
for these already-produced shows. This attempt would create an opportunity for the copyright owners, as a condition of granting performing
rights, to attempt to obtain the entire value of the shows 'in the can.'
It would produce, in other words, a case of bilateral monopoly. Because
pricing is indeterminate in a bilateral monopoly, television networks would
not terminate their blanket licenses until they had concluded an agreement with every owner of copyrighted music 'in the can' to allow future
performance for an identified price; the networks then would determine
whether that price was sufficiently low that termination of the blanket
license would be profitable. But the prospect of such negotiations offers
the copyrights owners an ability to misuse their rights in a way that
ensures the continuation of blanket licensing despite a change in market
conditions that may make other forms of licensing preferable." Brief for
United States as Amicus Curiae 24-25.
This analysis is in no sense inconsistent with the findings of the District
Court. The District Court did reject CBS's coercion argument as to
music "in the can." But as the Government again points out, the District Court's findings were addressed essentially to a tie-in claim; "the
court did not consider the possibility that the copyright owners' selfinterested, non-coercive demands for compensation might nevertheless
make the cost of CBS' dropping the blanket license sufficiently high that
ASCAP and BMI could take this 'termination penalty' into account in
setting fees for the blanket license." Id., at 25 n. 23.

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

441 U. S.

Indeed, ASCAP itself argues that its blanket license constitutes a product that is significantly different from the sum of
its component parts. I agree with that premise, but I conclude that the aggregate is a monopolistic restraint of trade
proscribed by the Sherman Act.

