OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

215 U. S.

weight of the testimony disclosed that the defendant corporation was not doing business in the State of Missouri at the
time of the attempted service of process, and that the person
named in the return of the sheriff was not at that time the
duly authorized agent of the defendant corporation.
Holding these views, the judgment of the Circuit Court is
reversed, and the cause remanded to that court with directions
to dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction.
Reversed.

HAFFNER v. DOBRINSKI.
APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME

COURT

OF THE TERRITORY

OF

OKLAHOMA.

No. 35.

Submitted November 12, 1909.-Decided January 10, 1910.

In order that specific performance may be decreed on the ground of
part performance the acts done and relied on by the party seeking
relief must be such that damages would not be adequate relief.
Specific performance rests in judicial discretion to be exercised according to settled principles of equity and with reference to the
facts in the particular case, and it may be refused where, as in this
case, the conditions do not appeal to equitable consideration, even
in case of part performance.
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma did not err in refusing to decree
specific performance in a case where complainant had funds in his
possession sufficient to cover his damages, if any, and where that
court held that the alleged contract was unreasonable in its provisions, lacked mutuality, and the part performance did not take
the contract out of the statute of frauds.
17 Oklahoma, 438, affirmed.
THE Supreme Court of Oklahoma, from whose judgment
affirming the decree of the District Court of Kingfisher County
this appeal was prosecuted, stated the case as follows (17
Oklahoma, 438):

"This action was brought on the thirteenth day of May,

HAFFNER v. DOBRINSKI.
215 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

1902, by the plaintiff in error, John F. Haffner, against the
defendants in error, for the specific enforcement of an oral
contract for the sale of real estate. Thereafter, on January 14, 1903, upon the application of the plaintiff in error
therefor, a restraining order was issued against the defendant
in error Dobrinski, restraining him from prosecuting certain
actions of forcible entry and detainer which he had brought
against Haffner in the Probate Court of Kingfisher County
after the filing of the petition in this case, and which involved
the land in controversy herein. This order was made conditional upon Haffner giving bond in the sum of $500.00,
which amount was later increased to $1,000.00. On March 9,
1903, the court overruled a motion to dissolve this restraining
order, and, upon the hearing of a demurrer filed by Dobrinski
to Haffner's petition, granted leave to the plaintiff in error
to amend. On March 18, 1903, by leave of court, Haffner
filed an amended petition, upon which the case was heard,
which, in substance, is as follows:
"'That on and prior to September 4, 1901, Dobrinski was
the owner in fee of the east half and lots 3 and 4 of sec. 31,
twp. 17, range 9, west of the Indian Meridian, in Kingfisher
County, Oklahoma, and also 1,668 bushels of wheat and
30 bushels of oats. That on said date Haffner and Dobrinski
entered into a verbal contract for the sale and purchase of
said land and personal property, for a total consideration of
$3,820.00, of which $920.00 was for the oats and wheat. -A
payment of $1,020.00 was to be made on or before January 1,
1902, $600.00 of which was to be applied by Dobrinski on a
mortgage then on the premises, and a warranty deed executed
by Dobrinski to the plaintiff in error, Haffner. At the same
time Haffner, upon the execution of said deed, was to execute
to Dobrinski his note for $2,800.00, bearing 5 per cent interest per annum, payable in ten years, Haffner to bind himself to apply upon the said indebtedness all of the proceeds
arising from the crops raised upon said land, over and above
cost of raising the same. That in pursuance of said oral

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

215 U. S.

contract Haffner paid Dobrinski $50.20, and on the day
following, September 5, 1901, took peaceable possession of
the premises and personal property, made minor improvements about the farm, planted about $60.00 worth of trees
and sowed one hundred acres of the land to wheat and ten.
acres to oats.' "
"The petition then alleges that Dobrinski on November 30,
1901, conveyed the premises by warranty deed to one John A.
Webber, for the consideration of $1,700.00, and that Webber
later on, for a consideration unknown to the plaintiff Haffner,
at the instance of Dobrinski, deeded the land to the defendant
in error Shultz. Shultz, however, is alleged to have quitclaimed back to Dobrinski, and to have held in the interim
in trust for Dobrinski. The petition then recites that prior
to the first of January, 1902, at which time the payment of
$1,020.00 was to be made, Haffner notified Dobrinski that
he was ready and willing to make payment, and that he was
at that time and ever since has been ready, willing and able
to pay said sum, less the payment of $50.20 theretofore made,
but that Dobrinski refused and still refuses to accept the
same. That Haffner has at all times been able, ready and
willing to comply with his contract, and offers to bring into
court the said $1,020.00, less $50.20 paid, and to execute to
Dobrinski his note for $2,800.00 secured by first mortgage
on the real estate, and in addition thereto, to bring into court
the sum of $458.76, which it is alleged is the proceeds of the
farm, over and above outlay for help, while Haffner has held
the same. Continuous *possession of the premises on the part
of Haffner since September 5, 1901, is then alleged, and the
petition concludes in this language: 'That no just, fair or
adequate assessment of damages could be made, and that
the defendant Michael Dobrinski is not financially responsible
for any adequate amount of damages, and that the plaintiff
has no plain and adequate remedy at law,' followed by a
prayer for an order directing Dobrinski to execute a warranty
deed in accordance with the terms of the contract.

HAFFNER v. DOBRINSKI.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"To this amended petition, Shultz filed what is in effect a
disclaimer. After various delays, occasioned by motions to
strike out portions of the first answer, Dobrinski filed an
amended answer in two paragraphs, and later withdrew the
second paragraph, and stood upon the first alone. This
paragraph of Dobrinski's amended answer admits his ownership of the premises and personal property on September 5,
1901, and admits that Shultz held the land in trust for him,
and then contains a verified general denial as to all the other
allegations in the amended petition. At the trial Dobrinski
objected to the introduction of any evidence, 'for the reason,'
as the record recites, 'that the petition did not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against the defendant
and in favor of the plaintiff.' This objection was by the court
sustained, exception saved, motion for a new trial filed and
overruled, and the case brought here for review.
"Error is predicated upon the sustaining of the objection
to the introduction of evidence, and also upon the refusal of
the court below to make perpetual the restraining order above
referred to, and because of the fact that plaintiff in error
was required to give bond when the order was obtained. In
their brief, counsel for plaintiff in error enter into an extended argument to sustain their contentions, first, that
oral contracts in general, relative to the sale of real estate,
are not absolutely inhibited by our statute of frauds, and,
second, that if the statute applies, the contract declared upon
and sought to be enforced in this action is not within its scope,
by reason of part performance thereof."
Mr. Watson E. Coleman, Mr. L. 0. H. Alward and Mr.
D. W. Buckner for appellant.
Mr.C. C. Flansburgfor appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER,

after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma held that there was no
VOL. ccxv-29

OCTOI3ER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

error in excluding all the evidence because the petition did
not state a cause of action in equity; that the doctrine is well
settled that specific performance is never demandable as a
matter of absolute right, but as one which rests entirely in
judicial discretion, to be exercised, it is true, according to the
settled principles of equity, but not arbitrarily and capriciously, and always with reference to the facts of the particular case.
The principles applied were announced in Pope Manufacturing Company v. Gormully, 144 U. S. 224, 236. As remarked by Mr. Justice Brown in that case: "To stay the arm
of a court of equity from enforcing a contract it is by no
means necessary to prove that it is invalid; from time to time
immemorial it has been the recognized duty of such courts
to exercise a discretion; to refuse their aid in the enforcement
of unconscionable, oppressive or iniquitous contracts; and to
turn the party claiming the benefit of such contract over
to a court of law. This distinction was recognized by this
court in Cathcart v. Robinson, 5 Pet. 264, 276, wherein Chief
Justice Marshall says: 'The difference between that degree
of unfairness which will induce a court of equity to interfere
actively by setting aside a contract, and that which will induce a court to withhold its aid, is well settled. 10 Ves. 292;
2 Coxe's Cases in Chancery, 77. It is said that the plaintiff
must come into court with clean hands, and that a defendant
may resist a bill for specific performance, by showing that
under the circumstances the plaintiff is not entitled to the
relief he asks. Omission or mistake in the agreement, or that
it is unconscientious or unreasonable, or that there has been
concealment, misrepresentation or any unfairness, are enumerated among the causes which will induce the court to refuse
its aid.'" And see Hennessy v. Woolworth, 128 U. S. 438,
442; Nickerson v. Nickerson, 127 U. S. 668.
And the Supreme Court of Oklahoma further said (p. 443)
that where it is disclosed by complainant himself that the
contract upon which he bases his suit "is unreasonable in its

HAFFNER v. DOBRINSKI.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

provisions, if not unconscionable, and void under the statute
of frauds, and that the acts done and relied upon to warrant
a decree on the ground of part performance are not of such a
nature that damages would not be an adequate relief, but,
on the contrary, that he has within his immediate control
money and property more than sufficient to compensate him
for any loss sustained, a case for equitable intervention is
not shown, and upon such state of facts, a court of equity is
justified in refusing specific performance."
In short, the court held that the trial court was fullyowarranted in refusing to require the alleged contract to be specifically performed as being so unreasonable in its provisions as
to justify such refusal, and also for want of mutuality and
not practically enforceable as to both parties, and as to the
part performance relied on to take the contract out of the
statute of frauds, that the contention was without merit.
The doctrine is that in order that specific performance may
be decreed on the ground of part performance, the acts done
by the one seeking relief and relied on to warrant a decree,
must be of such a nature that damages would not be an
adequate relief. Williams v. Morris, 95 U. S. 444. But here,
as the lower court pointed out, the plaintiff showed on the
face of his petition that he had in his possession money belonging to the defendant adequate to cover any possible damages many times over. He had paid the merely nominal
sum of $50.20 on the purchase price, entered into the possession of the property, done the repairing common to all farmers,
expended $60 in improvements, and prepared 110 acres for
crop. But he had in his own control the $920 derived from
the sale of the wheat and oats, and in addition thereto the
sum of $458.76, the first year's returns from the farm above
the cost of obtaining it. In other words, he had lived on the
farm free for over a year; had almost $1,400 of the other's
money in his hands, and now complained in equity that fraud
would be perpetrated upon him if the court does not enforce
a contract which will allow him to remain nine years longer

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

in possession of the land, free from any obligations with which
defendant can force him to comply until the expiration of
that time. Such a condition of affairs did not appeal to
equitable consideration. The action of the trial court was
sustained as entirely justified. We concur in that conclusion,
and nothing else calls for comment.
Judgment affirmed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. ILLINOIS
CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 233.

Argued October 15, 1909.-Decided January 10, 1910.

In determining whether an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission shall be suspended or set aside, power to make-and not the
wisdom of-the order is the test and this court must consider all
relevant questions of constitutional power or right, all pertinent
questions as to whether the administrative order is within the scope
of the delegated authority under which it purports to be made, and
also whether even if in form it is within such delegated authority it is
not so in substance because so arbitrary and unreasonable as to
render it invalid.
In determining whether the action of the court below was or was not
correct, this court does so irrespective of the reasoning by which such
action was induced.
The equipment of an interstate railroad, including cars for transportation of its own fuel are instruments of interstate commerce and subject to control of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The act to regulate commerce has delegated to the Interstate Commerce Commission authority to consider, where complaint is made
on that subject, the question of distribution of coal cars, including
the carrier's own fuel cars, in times of car shortage, as a means of
prohibiting unjust preference or undue discrimination.
Under ยง 15 of the act to regulate commerce as amended June 29, 1906,
c. 3591, 34 Stat. 585, the Interstate Con merce Commission has power

