BRILL v. WASHINGTON RY. & ELECTRIC CO. 527
215 U. S.

Syllabus.

direct burden upon the taxing power of the Government of the
United States. In the cases relied upon it was but held that
certain state statutes regulating the sale within a State of
patent rights or patented articles were valid because but a
reasonable exertion of the police powers of the State over acts
done in the State, and were hence not inconsistent with the
legislation of Congress over the subject. But that, as we have
stated, is not the character of the legislation here involved.
Indeed, testing the provision of the law under consideration
by the criterion of reasonableness which was applied in the
cases relied upon, it becomes manifest that the act here in
question is directly antagonistic to the legislation of Congress
concerning the subject with which the state statute deals,
since that statute adds onerous burdens and conditions in addition to those for which the act of Congress provides, and
which burdens are, therefore, inconsistent with the paramount
right of Congress to exert, within the limits of the Constitution,
an untrammelled power of taxation.
Reversed and remanded.
THE. CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA
TICE HOLEs dissent.

BRIL v. WASHINGTON

RAILWAY

and MR. JUS-

AND ELECTRIC

COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM

THE

COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.

No. 66.

Argued December 10, 13, 1909.-Decided January 17, 1910.

Where a decree to which he is privy has established the right of a

manufacturer to sell an article, there is force in the argument that
such right should be recognized in another suit against his customer

and defended by him. Kessler v. Eldred, 206 U. S. 285.
Devices used in connection with steam railway cars are not patentable

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

as new inventions when applied to street railway cars, even though
a long time may have elapsed between their first use and their application to street cars.
Where the claim is very narrow, as in this case, there is little room
for the doctrine of equivalents.
30 App. D. C. 255, affirmed.
0

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Francis Rawle and Mr. Frederick P. Fish, with whom
Mr. Melville Church was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. "H.S. Duell, with whom Mr. Charles H. Duell and Mr.
F. P. Warfield were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity to restrain the infringement of a
patent. The suit is brought against a party that is alleged to
have used the patented device, but it is defended by the Peckham Manufacturing Company, the vendor, which is a successor by purchase to the Peckham Motor Truck and Wheel
Company. The principal claim now relied upon was declared
void in North Jersey St. Ry. Co. v. Brill, 134 Fed. Rep. 580;
S. C., 67 C. C. A. 380, reversing the decision of the Circuit
Court, 124 Fed. Rep. 778, 125 Fed. Rep. 526, a suit brought by
the same plaintiff and said to have been defended by the
Peckham Motor and Truck Company. (On the authority of
that case a preliminary injunction against the present defendant was refused in Brill v. Peckham Mfg. Co., 135 Fed. Rep.
784; S. C., 68 C. C. A. 486.) If the first Peckham Company
was privy to the decree declaring the patent void there would
be great force in the argument that that decree established,
as against the plaintiff, the right of the Peckham Manufacturing Company to make and sell the patented article, and
that the right ougLt to be recognized in a suit against its
customer defended by it. Kessler v. Eldred, 206 U. S. 285, 288,

BRILL v. WASHINGTON RY. & ELECTRIC CO. 529
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

289. It is unnecessary to decide that question, because the
formal proofs are wanting, but on the obvious facts we should
be unwilling to come to a different conclusion from that
reached in the earlier litigation and again in the present suit
unless it was impossible to avoid the result. With these preliminaries we proceed to the merits of the case.
The present form of car used on the electric street railways
is a long car resting by pivots upon two four-wheeled trucks.
The plaintiff makes a truck of this sort and has a parent and a
divisional patent for "Improvements in Car Trucks for Motor
Propulsion and the Like," dated June 27, 1899, and numbered
respectively 627,898 and 627,900. The arrangement in actual
use may be described as follows, nearly in the plaintiff's words:
The side frames are connected near the middle by two parallel
metal cross-pieces or transoms, having space enough between
them to allow another parallel piece, called the bolster, to
move vertically, occupying the space between with but slight
play. The car body rests on a pivot in the middle of the
bolster. The ends of the bolster rest on the top of semielliptic springs parallel to and below the sides of the truck.
The ends of the springs in their turn rest on two spring links
hanging from the sides of the truck near the axles. More
specifically they are supported on the bottom of metal bands
or stirrups which surround and hang by their tops on spiral
springs each of which is attached underneath to a metal bolt
running up through its middle and connected at the top with
the frame of the truck by a ball and socket-joint. That is to
say the pin passes up through the frame, in which is a conoidal
aperture to give it play in all directions, and the head of the
pin is hemispherical seated in a like recess in the frame.
The claims relied upon are the following: In number 627,898
the parent patent,
"13. The combination in a car-truck, of the side frames, the
semi-elliptic springs movably and resiliently suspended from
the side frames, and a bolster secured to said springs, substantially as described."
VOL. ccxv-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

"81. The combination in a car-truck, of the side frames, the
semi-elliptic springs, a -cross-bolster resting on the semielliptic springs, links, and springs combined with said links,
said links deriving their support from the side frames and connecting the ends of the semi-elliptic springs with the side
frames, substantially as described."
In 627,900, the divisional patent,
"13. In a car-truck, the combination with the side frames,
of the links comprising bolts pivoted between their ends, said
links being pivotally suspended from the side frames, longitudinally-disposed semi-elliptic springs secured to the lowerend of said bolts, a ercss-bolster resting on said springs, and
further springs included in the link suspension of said semielliptic springs, substantially as described.
"14. In a car-truck, the combination with the side frames,
of the cross-bolster suspended below the side frames by semielliptic springs and pivotal links, said links domprising a
plurality of sections pivotally secured together, and further
springs combined with said links to elastically suspend said
semi-elliptic springs from the side frames, substantially as described.
"15. In a car-truck, the combination with the side frames,
of the cross-bolster suspended below the side frames by semielliptic springs and articulated and pivotal links, said links
comprising a plurality of sections pivotally secured together,
and spiral springs about and combined with said links to
elastically suspend said semi-elliptic springs from the side
frames, substantially as described."
"17. The combination in a car-truck having an upper
chord, of the longitudinally-disposed semi-elliptic springs, a
transverse bolster supported upon said springs, links depending from and flexibly supported on said upper chord and passing through enlarged apertures therein, said links being
articulated between their ends, the ends of the semi-elliptic
springs being supported upon the lower articulation of said
links, substantially as described."

BRILL v. WASHINGTON RY. & ELECTRIC CO. 531
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The parent patent contains the following disclaimer:
"The location of the semi-elliptic springs outside of the
wheel-gage on each side of the truck, together with the location
of the links for supporting the semi-elliptics closely adjacent
to the axle-boxes, and the swinging of said springs from the
truck-frame from such points gives a better support for the
car-body than does the usual link-hung bolster supported from
the truck-transoms within the wheel-gage. These general
features of construction, however, are embraced in an application filed by Samuel M. Curwen and myself on the 3d day of
November, 1896, Serial No. 610,902, and therefore I do not
claim the same herein."
The answer denies the validity of the patents, setting up a
large number of earlier ones, and also denies infringement.
There was a trial in the Supreme Court of the District, upon
which a decree was rendered dismissing the bill. The decree
was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, 30 App. D. C. 255, and
an appeal was taken to this court.
It is difficult to put one's finger with certainty upon what
the plaintiff claims. It certainly is not the total combination
of a successful truck. Mr. Brill, the inventor and the plaintiff's
assignor, is pictured as playing a large part in the development of street railway trucks, but whether that be true or not,
his share in the invention of the truck that we have described,
so far as the present patent at least is concerned, must be at
best but very small. It is insisted, to be sure, that the case is
not affected by inventions for use with steam railroad cars because of the different requirements upon street roads. Cars
for the latter use must be low hung to make getting in and out
easy, must accommodate the motors hung upon the axles,
must be adapted to short curves and so forth. But these
differences are not of universal effect; indeed this patent is not
confined to street cars. The suspension of the car body upon a
semi-elliptic spring hung from the side frame of the truck by a
jointed hanger, with most of the characteristics of the present
patent, as disclosed in a patent to Thyng in 1845, was obvi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

ously as available for street as for steam railways, and the use
of these features by Brill was not a patentable invention. The
use, on the modern long car, of two four-wheeled pivotal trucks
with a short wheel base and wheels of equal diameter, which
support the car body by a pivot on a bolster between the axles,
resting on semi-elliptic springs, was not peculiar to Brill.
It was described in a patent to Taylor, October 31, 1895,
No. 507,855. Brill's specification disclaims at the outset the
general features of the truck it describes. Indeed it hardly is
denied that every element in the combination was well known
in the construction of railway cars.
We are not dealing with a new type of trucks, but with certain features only. At the argument it was admitted that the
plaintiff's case must stand or fall on claim 13 of No. 627,898.
In that claim the only possible element of novelty is the mode
in which the semi-elliptic springs are suspended from the side
frames. In practice the links are elastic and the pins on which
the whole combination hangs have a universal ball and socket
movement, although the claim only says 'movably and
resiliently suspended

.

.

.

substantially as described.'

Neither 'movably' nor 'resiliently' indicates the ball and
socket arrangement, but it is described in the specification
and we give the plaintiff the benefit of the doubt. We agree,
however, with the Circuit Court of Appeals that the substitution of a ball and socket movement for the movement in one
direction of the Thyng link, coupled as it was with a slight
longitudinal play, required a minimum of invention. A link
having universal movement was patented by Beach in 1876.
The plaintiff's witness, Akarman, says that there always has
been provision made for lateral and longitudinal motion in
every well-constructed truck. Spring links to support semielliptic springs were old; it is unnecessary to recite the patents
in which they appear. The mention of 'the usual link hung
bolster' in the disclaimer indicates the indisputable fact.
We also agree with the other court that the disclaimer in favor
of Brill and Curwen is a solemn admission of the priority of the

MANKIN v. LUDOWICI-CELADON CO.
215 U. S.

Syllabus.

devices claimed by them. It certainly covers the collocation
of the spring links and semi-elliptic springs. One of the claims
of Brill and Curwen is, "12. The combination in a car truck
of the side frames, the equalizing-bars movably and resiliently
suspended from the side frames, and a bolster supported on
said equalizing-bars, substantially as described." It is said
that the Brill patent did not follow the Thyng invention for
more than fifty years. The answer is that for most of that
time it was not wanted. Very soon after the change in street
railway travel required it it came.
If the plaintiff's claim could be sustained, which we cannot
admit, it would be confined to the specific form of link described. There would be little room for the doctrine of
equivalents. The defendant's device does not use a ball and
socket but uses a rigid link supported by a relatively unyielding spiral spring in the frame of the truck, and does not infringe the very narrow claim which is the most that in any
view could be allowed.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

dissents.

MANKIN v. UNITED STATES FOR THE USE OF
LUDOWICI-CELADON COMPANY.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 167.

Submitted January 7, 1910.-Decided January 17, 1910.

Under the labor and material law of February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33
Stat. 811, amending the act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278,
indemnity is provided for persons furnishing labor and materials
to a subcontractor as well as to the contractor in chief for the construction of a public building.
The indemnity extends to the full amount furnished notwithstanding
the contractor may have already paid the subcontractor in full or

