OCTOBERU

TERM, 1909.

Counsel for Parties.

215 U. S.

Congress. It was accepted without challenge until 1902.
Then, a protest against it having been overruled, it remained
unchallenged for another year. After this, and in the latest
tariff act, Congress has in terms put sake in the category
with still wines.
Under these circumstances we think the intent of Congress
in respect to the classification of sake is clearly manifested,
and the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

ELIAS v. RAMIREZ.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT

OF THE TERRITORY

OF

ARIZONA.

No. 30.

Submitted November 5, 1909.-Decided January 3, 1910.

In this case this court, reviewing the evidence, reverses the territorial
court and finds that there is evidence to show, with sufficient certainty, that an extraditable crime was committed by the person
benefited thereby, and thus to satisfy the extradition procedure
statute and justify the order of the commissioner committing the accused to await the action of the Executive Department on a requisition made for forgery under the extradition treaty with Mexico.
Although the statements of certain witnesses were unsworn to and
therefore might not, under the state law, be admissible before a
committing magistrate, under the extradition statute they are receivable by the commissioner to create a probability of the commission of the crime by the accused.
90 Pac. Rep. 323, affirmed.

THE facts-are stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. C. Baker, for appellant.

ELIAS v. RAMIREZ.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William Herring, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

Appellee was arrested as a fugitive from justice in pursuance
of the provision of a treaty of extradition between Mexico and
the United States, and, after a hearing before John H. Campbell, judge of the district court of the first judicial district of
Arizona, sitting as a commissioner in extradition proceedings,
he was committed, on the charge of forgery and the utterance
of forged papers, to the custody of the United States marshal
for Arizona, to abide the order of the President of the United
States in the premises. Upon his petition to the Supreme
Court of the Territory for habeas corpus he was discharged
from custody, and from the judgment of the court the case
is here on appeal.
The court decided that the offense charged is within the
terms of the treaty between the United States and Mexico,
"that the committing magistrate had jurisdiction of the
subject-matter and the accused," and that the complaint was
sufficient. The court, however, held that there was not sufficient legal evidence to establish the fact of forgery, and that,
therefore, "the judge of the district court exceeded his jurisdiction in holding the petitioner (appellee) for extradition."
This ruling constitutes the question in the case.
The complaint, summarized, is that Ramirez forged certain
railroad wheat certificates, which purported to have been
issued by the Southern Pacific Company to show the true
weight of certain carloads of wheat shipped from the United
States to Mexico, and had the further purpose to show the
amount of custom duties to be paid to Mexico. The certificates, in order to appear authenticated, it is alleged, purported
and were intended to show, that they were signed or sealed
or stamped by the railroad company with a seal or stamp containing the words "Gross Weight, Tare, Net Weight," and
that the true gross, tare and net weight of the wheat in each

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
'Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

of the cars were inserted by the company after those words,
and that the certificates were initialed with the letters "G.
W. B."
It is alleged that the certificates were not so authenticated
by the company or any one in its employ, and did not show.
the weight of the wheat, but showed that there was much
less than the true weight. It is alleged also, with the usual
repetition, that Ramirez forged the stamp and seal and the
initials "G. W. B.," and did "use and utter" the certificates
and presented them "to the custom house of the government
of Mexico and the officials thereof," at the town of Nogales,
"as true and genuine wheat certificates of the said railroad
company, and as showing the true weight contained in the
said cars."
There were two importations of wheat from Nogales,
Arizona, to Nogales, Mexico, in the name of E. Ramirez. The
manifest or request for importation was made to the proper
officers at Nogales, Mexico, in the name of and for E. Ramirez.
It was the duty of the Mexican inspectors of customs to inspect and weigh the wheat, in order to compute the proper
amount of duties. One of the importations was inspected by
one Manuel Rosas, the other by one Francisco Enriquez, both
of whom were implicated in the prosecution in Mexico for the
crimes of fraud against the Federal treasury and forgery of
private seals.
Rosas testified that he examined the interior of the cars in
a superficial manner, "satisfying himself by opening a sack
that said cars contained the merchandise represented." He
did not weigh the merchandise, because it came billed in
carload lots, and "did not come designated as to so many
bundles, and also bicause the custom house lacked the proper
scale facility." He testified that "the railroad of Sonora
issued to the applicants a ticket with the seal of the office
without any signature, bearing thereon, indicated in lead
pencil writing, the number of the respective cars, the net
weight, and the gross weight. It was so done in this case,

ELIAS v. RAMIREZ.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that he compared the data upon the tickets with reference
notes with those presented by the customs agent, and, finding
them to correspond with each other, he had no objection in
authorizing, over his own signature, the correctness of the
same and order it 'dispatched.' " As soon as the tickets, he
further testified, are compared with the applications they are
destroyed, and that he did not know what had become of
them in this case. He further testified that the applications
were delivered to him by the custom house collector, which
applications manifested the weight of the merchandise to be
imported, and, "this being done, the manifest passed into the
possession of the revisors, who solicit the railroad ticket from
the interested parties for the purpose of verifying the respective comparisons." The person of whom he "asked for the
tickets was Mr. Manuel Ramirez, who was in charge of the
customs department of the house." Further testifying, he
said that he did not know the origin of the tickets "by their
form of writing;" that he did not find in any of them any
erasures nor any trace of alteration, and could not tell "even
vaguely the name of the employ6s who wrote the tickets;"
that he did not know whether any person was present "when
the corresponding tickets were delivered to him;" that he
had no knowledge from "private sources or otherwise of
Mr. Cerilo Ramirez's connection with the customs agency
that operates under his name." He recognized, from the
books of the railroad exhibited to him, the seals to be the
same used by the company to express the weight, not recollecting having personally seen the books. Explaining how
he "erred," he testified that it was because he did not go personally to the offices of the railroad to compare the true weight
at those offices, but instead relied on the tickets presented
by Manuel Ramirez, "which were forged, in the sense that the
said Ramirez personally or in accord with some employ6 of
the railroad" forged the tickets, "making use of the seals of
the railroad."
Francisco Enriquez testified substantially to the same
VOL. ccxv-26

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

effect, though in some parts more fully. He testified that the
tickets came approved by Mr. G. W. Bowman, chief of the
station of the Sonora Railroad. He, however, did not know,
he said, the handwriting of Bowman "to the extent of being
able to identify the same to a certainty," because "the tickets
.in question only bring numbers, made in great haste, setting
forth the number of the car, the gross weight, the net weight,
and the tare calculated in pounds," of which he "made the
computation into kilos."
Ignacio Allco testified that he was a private employ6 of the
firm under investigation, and served for five years as freighter
for the firm or house; that his duty was to receive the loose
freight from the American side, delivered to him at Nogales,
Arizona, to place the same in the cars which convey it south;
that in doing so he takes note of the number of bundles,
marks, countermarks, weights and other memoranda which
serve to form the applications for shipment; that said data
are made on loose papers, which he delivers to Manuel Ramirez, who makes out the applications for shipment; that
"Ramirez is also occupied in making the applications for
exportation, reimportation, more properly exportation;" that
he, the witness, had no other connection with the direct importation than to copy some applications for shipment; that
when he came to the house, five years ago, Manuel Ramirez
had been serving the house for a long time, and that Ramirez
had "personal charge of the dealings with the employ6s of
the custom house, all relative to importations;" that the head
person in charge of the office "was Eduardo Ramirez, who
had full power to act from the owner of the business, Cerilo
Ramirez; that up to three years ago Alberto Masarenas kept
the accounts of the house, since then he did not know who
had, but that the cash accounts, he understands, were kept
by Mr. Escobara."
Ignacio Escobara had testified before, but he would not
ratify his former testimony in all respects, he said, because it
was given "under the belief that his gratitude towards his

ELIAS v. RAMIREZ.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

employer compelled him to do so," and that after mature
consideration he realized that he was not required "to tell
an untruth in a proceeding which may stain his honor, and
for that reason he was disposed to tell the truth." And he
testified that from the beginning of the proceeding against
Messrs. Campello he noticed the greatest uneasiness, excitement and fear in Eduardo Ramirez, Luis Bartning and Cerilo
Ramirez; from that time they began to prepare themselves,
"fearing to become involved in the same manner as Messrs.
Campello and associates; that he plainly noticed the attitude
of the above gentlemen and the danger in which they were."
He further testified that "he saw and noticed their conduct, as well as listening to their conversation," and that
"the manner of preparing themselves consisted in making up
packages of correspondence and documents carefully selected
and packed in a wooden box which stood in a patio or court
during the day and disappeared at night without" his knowing what became of it; that he was under the impression that
it was taken to the American side, not being able to tell "from
whom he heard it in the office of the firm," but he believed
that he "heard it said there in conversation."
He further testified that the books of account and the copy
books of statement of expenses "appeared and disappeared
successively, being carried to and fro by Bartning personally,
who was the bookkeeper;" that at the beginning of Campello's
investigation, Alleo confessed to him that the house was very
much involved in the same manner as were Messrs. Campello;
that the person in charge of all transactions was Manuel
Ramirez; that Bartning is the brother-in-law of Ramirez,
"with whom he is strongly tied in business; the head of the
institution is Cerilo Ramirez, who commands as supreme
principal and owner of the establishment, and as such daily
attends said office, watching carefully the affairs and progress
of the house; during the absence of Cerilo his brother Eduardo
directs the house and is recognized by all as second chief, and
as Cerilo was tried for smuggling and his signature is not

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

accepted in custom house dealings, all official documents are
signed by Eduardo Ramirez in his own name or through an
agent representing himself in the documents as a custom house
broker." He testified further that he "was told from the
beginning that the cause of fear of Cerilo Ramirez and his
associates in the present case proceeded from a fraud -committed by them upon the Federal Treasury in like manner as
that committed by Messrs. Campello, that is, by false and
forged manifests of the weight of carloads of wheat imported
by said house one year ago."
The record shows that Cerilo Ramirez, "being present for
the purpose of undergoing a suppletory confrontation with
Ignacio Escobara," and with "that of said Ramirez," referring apparently to some deposition or statement made by
himself which is not in the papers, stated that he was "absent
from Nogales, living in Lower California, and for that reason
could not have been present'after the detention of Campello,"
and stated further that he was "therefore ignorant of what
disposition had been made of the books of account, correspondence and documents of the establishment of 'C.
Ramirez,' to which Escobara" referred. He denied that he
was recognized as agent of the house, and said that "if he left
the name of C. Ramirez in the business it was with the object
of not impairing the credit of the house, and on account of his
brother being concerned,

.

.

.

which business he trans-

ferred to his brother Eduardo, without executing in this case
any special instrument." And he denied having had "previous knowledge of the fraud upon the Federal Treasury."
Manuel Ramirez was also put in "suppletory confrontation"
with Escobara, whose testimony was read to him, as was that
of C. Ramirez, and being "apprised of the discrepancies of
both depositions," said that what Escobara said was "not
exact" when he said that he, Ramirez, was "in collusion with
the other, Messrs. Ramirez, in trying to conceal the books and
correspondence of the business." The rest of his testimony
is as follows: "He does not know where they (the books and

ELIAS v. RAMIREZ.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

correspondence) are and says that their chief was Mr. Eduardo
Ramirez, ignoring (?) to date if the payment has been made
in full of the duties upon the importation of wheat, because
his duties were only to draw the papers for the importation
through the custom house."
He was called upon a second time to testify and he was
asked if he personally copied the tickets or memoranda of
the weight of the cars of wheat from the sheets in which the
employ~s of the railroad noted the weight of bundles. He
answered that sometimes he did, but not in the present case,
he did not remember; that his brother Eduardo Ramirez attended to the loading and giving of weights, but that he in his
brother's absence would sometimes attend to this branch.
And further, that he could not explain the discrepancy between the weights of the bundles in question and those shown
in the respective books of the railroad company.
It appears that the frauds upon the revenue charged to
E. Ramirez amounted to $11,944.94. The depositions were
taken in proceedings instituted in Mexico under its laws as the
basis for an application for the extradition of Eduardo
Ramirez, and were attested by the officers of the tribunal to
whom the case was assigned, and that tribunal, after citing
the applicable law and its conclusion, and considering that
"the corpus delicti of fraud against the Federal Treasury and
undue use of private seals" had been proved, and that it
constituted forgery under the laws of Mexico, and was within
the provisions of the treaty between that country and the
United States, concluded as follows: "Let a petition issue
with the proper evidence to the Secretary of State and Foreign
Affairs, so that through the conduct of the diplomatic agents
accredited in the neighboring republic, steps be taken for the
extradition of Eduardo Ramirez, and obtaining the same, to
place at the disposal of this tribunal."
Appellant was commissioned by the Mexican ambassador
as a proper person to present to the authorities of the United
States of America a copy of the warrant of arrest in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

United States of Mexico and of the depositions upon which
the warrant was issued, and, as agent of Mexico, to "receive
the said Eduardo Ramirez from the proper authorities of the
United States of America." We shall not further quote from
the papers, as there is no question but that requisition had
been duly made for the extradition of Ramirez. The evidence
before the district judge consisted of the depositions, together
with oral testimony that they would be admissible in evidence
in the courts of Mexico, and in addition the ambassador to
Mexico and the charg6 d'affaires certified that they were
"properly and legally authenticated, so as to entitle them
to be received for similar purpose by tribunals of Mexico, as
required by the act of Congress of August 3, 1882." There
is also in the record a paper headed "Statement of the weight
of the carloads of wheat imported by Eduardo Ramirez,
made by this Federal tribunal by virtue of the data shown
in the books of the railroads," and a large number of exhibits.
The district judge committed Ramirez to the custody of
the United States marshal for the Territory of Arizona, to
abide "the order of the President of the United States of
America in the premises." The writ of habeas corpus under
review was then issued by the Supreme Court of the Territory
and appellee discharged from custody. It was ordered, however, that if an appeal should be taken to this court he should
be remanded to the custody of the marshal, to be released
upon giving bail in the sum of $25,000, under the provisions
of rule 34. Bail was subsequently given and the appellee
discharged from custody.
The Supreme Court of the Territory expressed the view
that the writ of habeas corpus could not be made to perform
the office of a writ of error, and that, therefore, if the district
judge had jurisdiction of the subject-matter and of the accused and the offense charged was within the terms of the
treaty of extradition, and there was before him "competent
legal evidence on which to exercise his judgment as to whether

ELIAS v. RAMIREZ.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the facts are sufficient to establish the criminality of the
accused for the purpose of extradition, such decision cannot
be reviewed on habeas corpus." The court cited Ornelas v.
Ruiz, 161 U. S. 502, 508, and Bryant v. United States, 167
U. S. 104. And considering further the extent of a court's
power of review over the judgment of the committing magistrate upon the facts, said, "but such court is not to inquire
whether the legal evidence of facts before the commissioner
was sufficient or insufficient to warrant his conclusion," citing
In re Stupp, 12 Blatch. 501; Ornelas v. Ruiz, supra, and Terlinden v. Ames, 184 U. S. 270. The cases cited establish the
propositions expressed by the court, but the learned court's
application of them to the facts of this record is challenged.
The court expressed the opinion that all of the conditions of
commitment were established, except that there "was no
competent legal evidence of the fact of forgery itself of the
documents in question." That is, that there was no legal
evidence of the forgery of what are called in the complaint
"railroad wheat certificates" and "tickets" in the depositions
of the witnesses. We are unable to agree to this conclusion.
They were either forged or issued by mistake, and the supposition of ,a mistake is precluded by the evidence. The
books of the railroad showed the true weights; the mistake or
forgery was in the certificates or tickets. Exclude the former
and forgery is established. If a mistake was made, it is certainly strange that it should have escaped notice until the
Mexican treasury had been defrauded of $11,944.94. Besides,
the reparation for a mistake was payment of the amount in
default, not by flight from the accusation of forgery and
crime. Then, too, ample opportunity was given in Mexico
to explain the certificates, but explanation was not attempted.
It was not attempted in Arizona, and from these negative
circumstances, as well as from the positive testimony of the
witnesses, it certainly cannot be said that there was substantially no evidence to justify the judgment of the commissioner that a crime had been committed, and as little can it

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

be said that there was not probable cause to believe that the
accused had committed it. We have set out the evidence
somewhat fully. It shows that the Mexican treasury was defrauded by the "House of Ramirez" of $11,944.94, and that
appellee was "second chief" of the house and the one to whom
C. Ramirez had transferred it. It appears, therefore, that
he was the principal, if not the only beneficiary, of the fraud.
It is true that Manuel Rosas and Francisco Enriquez, the
custom house revisors, stated that they received the "tickets"
from Manuel Ramirez; -but from the testimony of the latter
and other evidence it may be reasonably concluded that accused acted in conjunction with him, in fact, prepared and
directed the whole affair. It is certainly not out of the bounds
of reason to suppose that he who was benefited by the fraud
contrived and executed it, and not his subordinate or employ6.
It is, however, objected that there is no evidence in the record "tending in any way to prove that any of the alleged certificates were forged or altered or changed by any person
whatsoever." Indeed it is asserted by the appellee "that
the evidence, so far as it proves or tends to prove anything,
proves that the certificates were genuine certificates issued by
G. W. Bowman, chief of the station of the Sonora Railroad."
To complete these contentions a reference is made to the
complaint, in which it is alleged that the certificates, in order
to appear authenticated, purported to show that they were
signed, sealed or stamped by the railroad, containing the
words gross weight, tare, net weight, and initialed with the
letters "G. W. B.," and if so worded and initialed would have
been so authenticated as to have shown true weight of the
wheat in the cars. There is no evidence, it is said, of these
allegations, or that it was the duty of the custom house officer
to accept any so-called weight certificates as evidence of the
true weight of the wheat to be imported. It is probable that
the Supreme Court of the Territory yielded to these contentions, and that they were the basis of its decision that there
was no legal evidence before the commissioner of "facts tend-

ELIAS v. RAMIREZ.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing to prove the commission of the offense charged, to wit,
the crim6 of forgery,
We, however, cannot concur in these contentions, and,
without going over the evidence to show a precise or technical adaptation of it to the allegations, it is enough to say
that we think the evidence shows not only that a crime was
committed, but shows its character and by whom committed
with sufficient certainty and strength to satisfy the statute
and to justify the order of the commissioner committing the
accused to await the action of the executive department.
It is further contended that the statements of Rosas and
Enriquez were unsworn to, and because unsworn to were not
admissible in evidence; that "under the common law and
the law of Arizona the unsworn statement of no witness is
competent upon a preliminary hearing before a committing
magistrate," and would not justify a commitment for trial
in Arizona. It is hence contended that it was not sufficient
to justify the extradition of the appellee. In re Egita, 63
Fed. Rep. 972; In re McPhun, 30 Fed. Rep. 57; Benson v.
McMahon, 127 U. S. 457, are adduced to sustain the contention. The answer to the contention is that the statute providing for extradition makes the depositions receivable in
evidence and provides that their sufficiency to establish the
crime shall be such as to create a probability of the commission by the accused of the crime charged against him. This
is the principle announced by the cases cited by the appellee.
Other contentions are made but we do not think that they
need special mention.
Order reversed and the cause remanded with directions to
proceed in accordancewith this opinion.

