KENNEY v. CRAVEN.
215 U. S.

Syllabus.

subsequently forwarded to it. In view of the fact that the
Hanover Bank not only notified the Abilene Bank that the
notes would not be discounted, but also by telegram in effect
demanded that the Abilene Bank should forward funds to
meet its drafts, the assumption cannot be rightfully indulged
that the Hanover Bank allowed the overdraft in the belief
that the silence of the Abilene Bank signified that it expected
the draft to be paid, and that to enable the payment the
Hanover Bank might use the notes sent for discount as it saw
fit. It is not contended that there was an express agreement
between the parties that the draft which created the overdraft
should be paid, and that the funds should be realized in the
mode pursued by the Hanover Bank. Considering the transaction either from the standpoint of the forwarding of the
notes for discount and the making of the draft, or from the
standpoint of the sending of the notes for discount, and the
failure of the Abilene Bank to forward funds or to promptly
make known to the Hanover Bank its wishes in the matter,
we are of the opinion that the circumstances of the transaction were not such as to raise the presumption of agreement
for a set-off available as against the general creditors. Scott v.
Armstrong. 146 U. S. 499.
Affirmed.
1
KENNEY v. CRAVEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 31.

Argued November 12,' 1909.-Decided November 29, 1909.

The determination by a state court that a purchaser pendente lite from
the trustee of a bankrupt is bound by the decree against the trustee
in the action of which he has notice gives effect to such decree under
1Docket title originally Corbett v. Craven. Death of plaintiff in error
suggested, and Kenney and McVey, special administrators, substituted
November 11, 1909.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

215 U. S.

the principles of general law; and if, as in this case, it does not in-

volve passing on the nature and character of the rights of the parties
arising from the transaction of purchase and sale, no Federal question
is involved.

Writ of error to review 196 Massachusetts, 319, dismissed.
JAMES CONNOR, a manufacturer of woolen cloth, operating
two mills located in Holyoke, Massachusetts, sold to Michael
Craven machinery contained in the mills and evidenced the
same by three bills of sale executed respectively on October 12,
1883, April 6, 1885, and March 10, 1891. On June 18, 1901,
Connor was adjudicated a bankrupt, and in August following
Nathan B. Avery was appointed trustee. In the same month
Avery, as trustee, commenced a suit in equity in a state court of
Massachusetts, and therein assailed the validity of the bills of
sale to Craven, above referred to, and prayed that they might
be set aside and the property decreed to belong to the estate of
the bankrupt. While that suit was pending and on September 18, 1901, Avery, trustee, sold to William J. Corbett, as
part of the bankrupt estate, certain of the machinery situated
in the mills already referred to. In 1905 Corbett brought this
action against Craven to recover from him the value of the
machinery so as aforesaid transferred to him by Avery, trustee, alleging that Craven had taken possession of and converted the property sued for to his own use. During the
pendency of the action the equity cause was decided, and, after
the entry of the decree therein, an amended answer was filed
in this action. Therein, in addition to a general denial, the
decree in the equity suit in favor of Craven was specially
pleaded in bar, and it was averred that the title and right of
possession of the property in controversy in this action was in
issue in said equity cause and had been adjudicated by the
decree to be in Craven. An auditor was appointed "to hear
the parties, to examine their vouchers and evidence, to state
the accounts, and make report thereof to the court." After
the taking of evidence had been concluded the auditor filed a
lengthy report, in which were embodied numerous findings of

KENNEY v. CRAVEN.
215 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

fact. On the ultimate issues the auditor found for the plaintiff. As regards the decree in the equity cause pleaded in bar,
it was found that the title to the property alleged in this action
to have been converted by the defendant Craven had not been
the subject of litigation in the equity cause, and that the decree in that cause was not a bar to a recovery by the plaintiff.
The case was then by the court committed to a jury, who
found for the plaintiff, and assessed his damages at $4,696.01.
The defendant, on exceptions, carried the cause to the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. There the exceptions
were sustained, upon the sole ground that the decree in the
suit in equity was a bar to the claim of plaintiff. Corbett v.
Craven, 193 Massachusetts, 30. Subsequently in the trial
court the plaintiff was allowed to amend his declaration by
adding thereto the following paragraph:
"And the plaintiff says that said goods and chattels were
the property of one James Connor, who was adjudicated a
bankrupt by the District Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts, June 18, 1901; that on August 3,
1901, Nathan P. Avery, of Holyoke, was duly appointed trustee in bankruptcy of the estate of said Connor; that on August 6, 1901, the said Avery duly filed bond and duly qualified
as such trustee; that on September 18, 1901, the said plaintiff
acquired title to said goods and chattels by purchase from
said Avery as trustee aforesaid, the said Avery being duly authorized by said District Court to make sale of said goods and
chattels; and that the plaintiff in this action, relying upon
such title acquired as aforesaid from said Avery, specially sets
up and claims that said title was acquired under an authority
exercised under the United States within the meaning of
section 709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States."
A similar averment was also embodied in a reply filed at the
same time to that part of the answer of defendant which sets
up "a former judgment as a bar." Certain other matters were
also stated in the replication in avoidance of the effect of the
adjudication in the equity cause, but they need not be par-

.OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

215 U. S.

ticularly referred to, as no contention based upon them was
pressed at bar or called to our attention in any form.
The action was again tried to a jury, who, by direction of the
court, returned a verdict for the defendant. The cause was
again heard on exceptions in the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts, and, after consideration of the new matter
contained in the replication to the answer, the exceptions were
overruled. Corbett v. Craven, 196 Massachusetts, 319. The
trial court thereupon entered judgment on the verdict, and
this writ of error was prosecuted.
Mr. ChristopherT. Callahanfor plaintiff in error:
As to the jurisdiction: The decision of the state court that
the trustee's authorized sale to plaintiff passed no title presents a Federal question. It is not as though the state court
had merely the question on principles of general law. This
court has jurisdiction. Scott v. Kelley, 22 How. 57; Mays v.
Fillon, 20 Wall. 14; McHenry v. La SociNtS, 95 U. S. 58; Davis
v. Friedlander,104 U. S. 570, 575; MeKenna v. Simpson, 129
U. S. 506; Cramer v. Wilson, 195 U. S. 408. The state court's
rejection of the trustee's title rested not on conditions existing
at time he acquired it but on a subsequent official act. For
other cases in which this court has taken jurisdiction in cases
involving title 6f persons holding under Federal authority, see
Clements v. Berry, 11 How. 398, 408; Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall.
334, 340; Sharp v. Doyle, 102 U. S. 686; New Orleans R. R. v.
Delamore, 114 U. S. 501, 506; Williams v. Heard, 140 U. S. 529,
535; Stanley v. Schwalby, 147 U. S. 508, 519; Hussman v.
Durham, 165 U. S. 144; Aldrich v. Aetna, 8 Wall. 491; Dupassier v. Rochereau, 21 Wall. 130; O'Brien v. Weld, 92 U. S.
81; Baldwin v. Stark, 107 U. S. 463; Pittsburg &c. R. R. v.
Long Island Co., 172 U. S. 493; Publishing Co. v. Beckwith,
188 U. S. 567; Yates v. Jones National Bank, 206 U. S. 155,
167.
A Federal question is presented by the contention that due
effect is denied to a decree of the Federal court in sustaining

KENNEY v. CRAVEN.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a plea of res judicata. National Foundry v. Oconto Water Co.,
183 U. S. 216, distinguishing Avery v. Popper, 179 U. S. 305.
Mr. CharlesG. Gardnerfor defendant in error:
As to the jurisdiction: A Federal question is not presented
merely because the plaintiff claims title from one who derives
his authority to sell from a Federal statute. Blackburn v. Portland Mining Co., 175 U. S. 571, 579; ContinentalBank v. Buford, 191 U. S. 119, 125.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The assertion that this court has jurisdiction is based upon
the contention of the plaintiff in error that he specially set up
in his replication filed below a title acquired under an authority exercised under the United States, that is, a purchase
of property from a trustee in bankruptcy under the sanction
of the bankruptcy court, and that such title was denied by the
decision of the state court. We are not called upon to consider these propositions from a purely abstract point of view,
since, of course, we are only required to determine their import in so far as they are involved in the decision of the question arising on the record. Confining our contemplation to
that subject it, we think, becomes clear that the contentions
are wholly irrelevant to the question of jurisdiction concerning
which they are advanced and relied on. We say this, because
it is obvious on the face of the record that the court below
rested its decision solely on the ground that the plaintiff, as a
purchaser pendente lite from the trustee, was bound by the
decree rendered against the trustee in the equity cause, and
that, giving to that decree the effect which it was entitled to
have as the thing adjudged, under general principles of law
it operated to estop the trustee and the plaintiff, his privy,
from asserting title to the property. As, therefore, the court
below did not, as an original question, consider and pass upon
VOL. CCXV-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

the nature and character of the rights of the parties arising
from the transaction of purchase and sale, but its judgment
was solely based upon the operation and effect of the prior
judgment between the parties or their privies, it follows that
the decision of the case was placed upon no Federal ground
but involved solely the decision of a question of general law,
that is, the effect and scope of the thing adjudged as arising
from the prior judgment of the state court. Chouteau v.
Gibson, 111 U. S. 200; San Francisco v. Itsell, 133 U. S. 65;
Covington v. FirstNat. Bank, 198 U. S. 100, 107. Indeed the
fallacy underlying all the contentions urged in favor of our
jurisdiction and the arguments of inconvenience by which
those propositions are sought to be maintained, in their ultimate conception involve the assumption either that the correctness of the state decree, which was held to be res judicata,
is open for consideration on this record, or assail the conclusively settled doctrine that the scope and effect of a state
judgment is peculiarly a question of state law, and therefore
a decision relating only to such subject involves no Federal
question.
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

THE STEAMSHIP JEFFERSON.'
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 243.

Submitted May 17, 1909.-Decided November 29, 1909.

Where the District Court has allowed an appeal, but has not certified
that the question of jurisdiction alone was involved, as required by
ยง 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, if it appears from
the face of the record, irrespective of recitals in the order, that the
Docket title, Simmons, late Master of the Tug Helen, and Others,
v. The Steamship Jefferson, The Old Dominion Steamship Company,
Claimant and Owner.

