BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. PITCAIRN COAL CO.
215 U. S.

481

Syllabus.

averment of the facts referred to in no way causes this case
to differ from the Illinois Central case. Of course, under
these circumstances we intimate no opinion as to how far had
the facts alleged as to the hopper cars been established, they
would to the extent of such cars have taken this case out of
the rule announced in the Illinois Central case. It follows
that the judgment must be reversed and the case remanded
for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

dissents.

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES EX REL. PITCAIRN COAL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED

STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF AP-

PEALS FOR THE FOURTH

No. 289.

CIRCUIT.

Argued October 18, 19, 1909.-Decided January 10, 1910.

Regulations which are primarily within the competency of the Interstate Commerce Commission are not subject to judicial supervision
or enforcement until that body has been properly afforded an opportunity to exert its administrative functions. Texas & Pacific
Railway Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, applied, and
Southern Railway Co. v. Tilt, 206 U. S. 428, distinguished.
The distribution to shippers of coal cars including those owned by
the shippers and those used by the carrier for its own fuel is a matter involving preference and discrimination and within the competency of the Interstate Commerce Commission, and the courts cannot interfere with regulations in regard to such distribution until
after action thereon by the commission.
Even if not assigned as error, this court will consider the jurisdictional question of whether there is power in the court, in view of
the provisions of the act to regulate commerce, to grant the relief
prayed for in regard to matters within the competency of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Under the court review provisions of § 15 of the act to regulate commerce as amended in 1906, the courts are limited to the question
of power of the commission to make the order and cannot consider
the wisdom or expediency of the order itself. Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Illinois Central Railroad, ante, p. 452.

VOL. ccxv-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

Section 23 of the act to regulate commerce, although added thereto
in 1889, will now be construed in the light of § 15, as amended in
1906; and the remedy of mandamus is limited to compelling the
performance of duties which are either so plain as not to require a
prerequisite exertion of power by the Interstate Commerce Commission,or which plainly arise from the obligatory force given by
the statute to existing orders rendered by the commission within
the lawful scope of its authority
Petition in mandamus by a shipper averring discrimination in distribution of coal cars by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad dismissed
because the matter had not been first submitted to the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
165 Fed. Rep. 113, reversed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Hugh L. Bond, with whom Mr. W. Ainsworth Parkerwas
on the brief, for Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edgar H. Gans, with whom Mr. Charles H. Markell
was on the brief for Fairmont Coal Company et al., plaintiffs
inerror.
Mr. William A. Glasgow, Jr., with whom Mr. Frederick
Dallam was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

To decide the merits of this cause will require us to determine the legality of the regulations of the Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad Company, by which that company distributed
cars to coal mines along the line of its road in case of car
shortage. As an incident to this general question we would
further be required to consider the relafions, irrespective of its
mere attributes and duties as a common carrier, of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad with various coal mines along the line
of its road and the relation with or control over some, if not all,
of these coal mines by other mines or mine operators, and in

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. PITCAIRN COAL CO. 483
215 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

addition to consider the relation of the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad with the Cumberland and Pennsylvania Railroad.
This road taps the main track of the Baltimore and Ohio railroad at Cumberland, Maryland, proceeds thence to the state
line between Maryland and Pennsylvania, where it strikes the
Pennsylvania Railroad, and passing thence through a country
rich in bituminous coal deposits, and containing coal mines, it
reaches Piedmont, West Virginia, where its tracks again connect with those of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad. As an
additional incident we might also be required to consider the
relation or control, direct or indirect, if any, which the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad exerted over some, if not all, of the
coal mines along the line of the Cumberland and Pennsylvania
road. Some, therefore, of the underlying questions involved
in the cause, if we may consider them, are similar to the issues
which were passed upon by us in the ease of the Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central Railroad, which we
have just decided, ante, p. 452. While referring to the general
situation as depicted in that case, we think, in addition, a
mere outline sketch of the conditions existing prior to the
commencement of this suit, as regards the matters with which
it is concerned, will serve to render lear the reasons which
control us in deciding it,
The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, a corporation
existing under the laws of Maryland, owned and operated a
railroad or railroads in the States of Maryland, West Virginia, Virginia, Pennsylvania, Ohio and other States, and, as a
common carrier, was engaged in interstate commerce between
such States. The main line of said road west of Cumberland,
Maryland, passes through a bituminous coal field, which is
worked by many coal operators, the product of whose mines
depend for their movement to market in interstate commerce
on the facilities for such movement which the Baltimore and
Ohio affords. For"the purpose of this case, the coal mines referred to may be treated as situated in what is described as
the Monongah District of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

Regulations of the B ltimore and Ohio Railroad, by which
mines were rated in order to fix the basis for a pro rata distribution of coal cars in case of car shortage, had their peculiarities differing from other roads. They were based, first, upon.
the capacity of the mines; second, upon the previous shipments

by the mines for a period of two years, the capacity counting
as one and the previous shipments as two. The capacity was
ascertained by considering the number of working places, etc.,
modified by taking into account the facilities for moving the
coal out of the mine, such as tracks, tipple, etc. The previous
shipments were taken from the records of the company during
periods when there was no car shortage. Upon the basis of the
capacity thus ascertained the regulations of the company for
giving each mine owner in the case of shortage its percentage
of cars, stated in the most summary way, were briefly these:
In the first place, there was assigned, out of the general mass
of cars before the distribution was made, such cars as it was
deemed the Cumberland and Pennsylvania Railroad was entitled to. This was done by no fixed rule, but, in the discretion of the traffic manager, generally upon the basis of the
percentage of shipments of coal hauled in the two previous
years by that road. The estimated mass remaining after the
deliveries to the Cumberland and Pennsylvania Railroad were
subjected to certain arbitrary assignments, and the remainder,
after such assignments had been taken out, were equally distributed among the mine operators, according to their capacity
rating. The arbitrary deductions which were made, as we
have just stated, were these:
. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad cars placed at mines for
Baltimore and Ohio fuel coal.
2. New mines are allotted an arbitrary number of cars
daily or weekly for development. In cases where the inspection shows a marked increase in the capacity of certain mines,
and it is not practicable to change the percentage of the whole
district, proper arbitraries are applied pending a general revision.

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. PITCAIRN COAL CO.
215 U. S.

485

Opinion of the Court.

3. Cars of foreign railroads assigned by them to their own
fuel trade.
4. Cars of individual companies placed at mines owned by
such companies and cars owned by individual consumers
placed at mines for their coal.
There are also certain exceptions of a local character, as
follows:
1. Curtis Bay premium. Whenever a shipper on the Balti-more and Ohio Railroad handles cars at Curtis Bay promptly
in any one month, he is allowed in the succeeding month a
premium of fifty per cent of the number of cars so handled, in
addition to his regular percentage. This in lieu of an assignment of cars to the Curtis Bay trade.
2. At certain points, noted on the percentage sheets, an
arbitrary number of cars is assigned to mines on fire.
3. At certain mines in the immediate vicinity of industries,
empty cars intended for loading at such industries are first
sent into the mines for loading coal for such industries.
4. When annual contracts are placed for foreign railroad
fuel coal with mines on the Baltimore and Ohio, arrangements
are made that if the foreign railroads' cars are furnished for
this fuel coal, the Baltimore and Ohio will allow the mines
shipping the coal a number of Baltimore and Ohio cars equal
to the foreign cars furnished.
5. 'When mines are connected with foreign railroads as well
as with the Baltimore and Ohio, their rating is reduced fifty
per cent. A similar reduction is made in cases where mines are
located near rivers and are equipped for loading boats.
Where mines needed box and stock cars for the shipment
of coal, as to which class of cars shortage rarely arose, there
was a special rule which we need not notice.
With the system just referred to in force on the nineteenth of
January, 1907, the Pitcairn Coal Company, a West Virginia
corporation, owning a coal mine on the line of the Baltimore
and Ohio Railroad in West Virginia, filed its petition in mandamus in the United States Circuit Court for the District of

OCTOFI'R TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

Maryland. The defendants were the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, the Fairmont Coal Company, the Clarksburg
Fuel Company, the Pittsburg and Fairmont Fuel Company
and the Southern Coal and Transportation Company, these
four coal companies operating coal mines located in West
Virginia on the Monongah Division of the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad. Along with these there were also made defendants
two other corporations, the Consolidation Coal Company,
located on the Cumberland and Pennsylvania Railroad in
Maryland, and the Somerset Coal Company, located on the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad in Pennsylvania. All of these
coal companies were charged to be substantially one in interest and were generally described as the Fairmont Companies. In addition, thirty-one other coal companies, alleged
to be independent companies, operating coal mines on the line
of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, were also made defendants. Rearranging somewhat the order of the averments as
contained in the bill, the prayer for relief was substantially
based upon the following grounds: The Piteairn Coal Company, it was averred, was entitled to an equal distribution of
the coal cars of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad in times of
shortage, in order to move its output of coal in interstate commerce, that the railroad company had refused, after demand,
to give it the share of cars to which it was entitled, and that
its not doing so had been seriously prejudicial to the business
of the company, had curtailed its production and interfered
with the moving of the coal produced in interstate commerce,
and that the conduct of the railroad in the premises had
amounted to the giving of an undue preference to the Fairmont Coal Company and its affiliated companies, to the prejudice of the Pitcairn Company and all other independent
companies. The method pursued by the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad for rating mines, by the consideration of both capacity
and previous shipments, was alleged, and it was charged that,
on the basis of capacity of the mine as rated by that system,
the Piteairn Company was entitled to seven-tenths per cent

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. PITCAIRN COAL CO.
215 U. S.

487

Opinion of the Court.

of the cars for distribution in the Monongah Division. General averments were, however, made concerning the method of
rating, which, in effect, charged that such method was discriminatory and preferential, and was put in force so as to
operate in favor of the Fairmont Coal Company and the companies affiliated with it, to the prejudice of the Pitcairn Company and other independent coal operators, the Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad being interested, it was charged, directly or indirectly, in the Fairmont and its affiliated companies. The
method of deduction from the mass of cars for the benefit of
the Cumberland and Pennsylvania Railroad was also charged
to be discriminatory and preferential, and to have been devised for the purpose of favoring mines on the line of the
Cumberland and Pennsylvania, which were affiliated with the
Fairmont. The failure to charge against the mines which had
received them, individual or private cars, foreign railroad cars
and company fuel cars, as well as the other arbitrary allotments of cars provided for in the regulations to which we have
referred, including the Curtis Bay regulation, were all assailed
as preferential and discriminatory, it being alleged that in
many instances the individual cars had been virtually paid for
by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, and that the failure
to charge them was in effect a mere means resorted to in order to give a preference contrary to the act to regulate commerce. The prayer was for an alternative writ of mandamus,
commanding an equal distribution in accordance with the
averments of the petition in effect for the undoing of the regulations referred to, and for the establishment of regulations
conformable to the rights which the petition asserted. As the
scope of the prayer is important in the view we take of the
case, it is excerpted in the margin.'

' First. That in the event of scarcity of cars to be furnished by defendant, Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, to shippers of coal
on the Monongah Division of said road, that defendant, the Baltimore

and Ohio Railroad Company, be required to furnish to relator one
and seven-tenths (1.7) per cent until such percentage shall properly

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

It suffices for the present purposes to say that the answer
of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad traversed every averment
as to preference and discrimination, asserted the validity of the
method of rating and the rules of distribution to which we
have referred. In great detail the origin and history of the
operation of private or individual cars was set out, various
contracts on that subject were annexed to the bill, and a decree rendered by the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of West Virginia in favor of the Fairmont
Coal Company, perpetually enjoining the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company to deliver certain private cars to the Fairbe increased, of the total number of cars in service, or supplied to all
the shippers on the Monongah Division of said road, without deducting from said number of cars "Individual Cars," or any arbitrary
allotment of cars to other shippers, and without deducting from the
total number of cars on all the lines of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad the "Individual Cars" claimed by the Somerset Coal Company,
or the cars arbitrarily assigned to the Cumberland and Pennsylvania
Railroad Company, or the Consolidation Coal Company, before making the percentage distribution to the Monongah Division.
Second. That writ of mandamus may be issued against the said
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, defendant, to command and
require it to cease to make or give any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to Fairmont Coal Company, Consolidation Coal
Company, Cumberland and Pennsylvania Railroad Company, Somerset Coal Company, Southern Coal and Transportation Company,
Clarksburg Fuel Company, or Pittsburg and Fairmont Fuel Company,
or either of them, in the shipping and transportation of their coal,
and to cease from subjecting the relator, Pitcairn Coal Company,
or any other independent shipper of coal on the Monongah Division
aforesaid, to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in
the shipping and transportation of coal, or in any respect whatsoever
and to move and transport the traffic of relator, Pitcairn Coal Company, and the other independent coal companies on the Monongah
Division aforesaid, without discrimination or preference, and to furnish the said Pitcairn Coal Company, and the other independent shippers of coal on the Monongah Division, without preference or discrimination, and upon conditions as favorable to it or them as is given
by the said railroad company to the said Fairmont Coal Company,
Consolidation Coal Company, Somerset Coal Company, Clarksburg

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. PITCAIRN COAL CO.
215 U. S.

489

Opinion of the Court.

mont Company, was referred to and made part of the bill.
The Cumberland and Pennsylvania Railroad Company, .the
Fairmont Coal Company and the five coal companies alleged
in the bill to be affiliated with the Fairmont Coal Company
applied for leave to answer, on the ground that, although the
alternative rule for mandamus had not been served upon them,
and they had only been summoned to "do whatever they
deemed proper to protect their interest in the premises," they
desired to answer, because the questionsr involved "are extremely important and of unusual interest, not only to your
petitioners and the railroad against whom the mandamus is
Fuel Company, Southern Coal and Transportation Company, and
Pittsburg and Fairmont Fuel Company, or for like traffic, under similar conditions, to any other shipper, its fair and reasonable percentage of all cars on the line of said railroad and to shippers of like traffic
along its railroad line, based upon the system of distribution of cars
in effect on said railroad as aforesaid, or upon any fair, reasonable and
equitable basis, and to furnish to the said Pitcairn Coal Company, for
the transportation of its coal, without discrimination, exception or
limitation, and upon conditions as favorable as those given to other
shippers, the percentage of the total car supply on said railroad at
this time properly distributable by said railroad company to the said
Monongah Division, and thereon distributed among the relator and
the other shippers of coal thereon as aforesaid.
Third. That in ascertaining and fixing the number of cars to which
relator, Pitcairn Coal Company, and the other coal companies on the
Monongah Division aforesaid are entitled, the said Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company shall take into consideration and include in the
estimate or calculation of the number of cars, to be divided in the proportion to which the percentages of each mine entitles the owner thereof
to cars, all cars, whether owned by individual operators, shippers,
other railroad companies or by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, and which may be upon the road of said Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company, and shall also take into consideration, and include
in the estimate or calculation of the number of cars to be divided upon
the percentages aforesaid, all cars, whether furnished or used by for
fuel or supply coal for the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company,
or for any other railroad company, and shall not deduct, before dividing the cars upon the percentages aforesaid, any cars for premiums
at Curtis Bay, or other arbitrary allotments.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of tile
Court.

215 U. S.

asked, but to the whole body of transportation companies engaged in interstate commerce, and that the importance of the
questions involved is so great that your petitioners feel that
they are making but a reasonable request when they ask for a
reasonable time to thoroughly present the facts which the
court ought to be in possession of for a full and complete determination of the question." The right to answer having
been given, and delay for that purpose having been accorded,
these companies answered. Without at all going into detail,
we think it suffices to say that the answer traversed all the
averments as to preference and discrimination alleged in the
bill. It specially asserted the legality of the operation on the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad of private or individual cars;
made copious reference to the acts or contracts from which
the right to operate said cars had arisen; charged that to take
said cars from the service of the persons who owned them
would be confiscatory, and in substance asserted the validity
of the system of rating and of distribution enforced by the
regulations of the company which we have previously referred to. Fourteen out of the thirty-one corporations referred to in the petition as independent companies briefly
answered, adopting the averments of the petition, and praying
for the awarding of the relief therein asked. Sixteen did not
answer, and one of said companies substantially joined in the
defenses of the railroad company, except as to the individual
cars, concerning which it averred that it was the duty of the
railroad to purchase said cars from the persons owning them
and to operate them as part of the railroad equipment. By
stipulation the cause was heard by the court without a jury.
There was voluminous testimony and a protracted trial,
each side requesting findings and instructions embcdying their
respective contentions and excepting in so far as they were
overruled. The court considered all the contentions raised by
the pleadings except several which were not pressed at bar.
It held that in view of the relations which the Cumberland and
Pennsylvania Railroad had to the Baltimore and Ohio and

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. PITCAIRN COAL CO.
215 j. S.

491

Opinion of the Court.-

the origin of those relations the method by which coal cars
were turned over to the Cumberland road was not preferential
or discriminatory. It decided that however amenable, abstractly considered, to criticism, if at all, might be the system
of rating, and especially the inclusion therein of the amount
of coal shipments, and the large influence attributed to that
fact, yet, when the particular facts concerning the Monongah
district and the relations of the Baltimore and Ohio to that
district were given their proper weight, the system was a just
one and ought not to be interfered with. The complaint as to
the Curtis Bay premium was also decided to be without merit;
and so also was the complaint as to consumer's cars, as to
foreign railway fuel cars and company fuel cars. Considering
the private cars belonging to mine operators, and, without at
all going into the relation of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
with the owners of such cars, it was decided that while there
was a right on the part of the railroad to move the cars, and it
would be confiscation to deprive the owners of the right to use
them, yet the duty was on the railroad to take account of the
cars in fixing the percentage in case of shortage. The court
declined to consider the decree which had been rendered in
favor of the Fairmont Company against the Baltimore and
Ohio in the previous case, which was pleaded, as well as that
in another cause which was relied upon in argument to the
same effect as controlling. The mandamus prayed therefore
was refused as to every item embraced in the petition but that
particular item, and, as to it, the writ was awarded. United
States v. Ball. & Ohio R. R., 154 Fed. Rep. 108.
The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, the Fairmont
Companies and the Pitcairn Coal Company prosecuted error.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held as follows: a, that the system of rating, so far as taking into view the shipments and
percentages based thereon was considered, was discriminatory
and preferential; b, that while the right to allot cars to the
Cumberland and Pennsylvania Railroad under the facts
found below was lawful, the methods by which the allotment

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

was made was also discriminatory and preferential; c, that the
practice as to the Curtis Bay regulation was also amenable to
the same criticism; d, that the duty existed to take into acc3unt thfe individual cars, the foreign railway fuel cars and the
company fuel cars in making a pro rata division in case of car
shortage, and that not to do so would give rise to undue
preferences and unlawful discriminations forbidden by the act
to regulate commerce. Concluding that the various subjects
.embraced in the complaint with which it thus dealt were all
controlled by the act to regulate commerce, it was expressly
decided that the right to rectify the wrongs by the issue of the
writ of mandamus as prayed for was sanctioned by the twentythird section of the act to regulate commerce, and the case
was remanded to the court below, with directions to allow the
writ of peremptory mandamus, in accordance with the opinion.
United States v. Balt. & Ohio R. Co., 165 Fed. Rep. 113. The
case is here upon error prosecuted by the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad and the Fairmont Coal Companies.
One of the assignments of error assails the correctness of the
conclusion of the court below to the effect that, compatibly
with the act to regulate commerce, there was power under the
circumstances disclosed by the record to consider the subjectmatters which were complained of, and to award the relief
concerning them which was prayed. Indeed, the nature of the
controversy and the relief which it requires is such that, even
without the assigned error, to which we have referred, the
question at the very threshold necessarily arises and commands our attention as to whether there was power in the
courts, under the circumstances disclosed by the record, to
grant the relief prayed consistently with the provisions of the
act to regulate commerce, and to that subject we therefore at
once come.
To a consideration of this question it is essential to at once
summarily and accurately fix the subject-matter of the alleged grievances and the precise character of the relief required in order to remedy the evils complained of upon the as-

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. PITCAIRN COAL CO. 493
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sumption of their existence. As to the first, it is patent .that
the grievances involve acts of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, regulations adopted by that company and alleged dealings by the other corporations, all of which, it is asserted, concern interstate commerce, and all of which, it is alleged, are in
direct violation of the duty imposed upon the railroad company by the provisions of the act to regulate commerce. As
to the second, in view of the nature and character of the acts
assailed, of the prayer for relief which we have previously excerpted and of the relief which the court below directed to be
awarded, it is equally clear that a prohibition, by way of
mandamus, against the act is sought and an order, by way of
mandamus, was invoked, and was allowed which must operate, by judicial decree, upon all the numerous parties and
various interests as a rule or regulation as to the matters complained of for the conduct of interstate commerce in the future.
When the situation is thus defined we see no escape from the
conclusion that the grievances complained of were primarily
within the administrative competency of the Interstate Commerce Commission and not subject to be judicially enforced,
at least until that body, clothed by the statute with authority on the subject, had been afforded by a complaint made
to it the opportunity to exert its administrative functions.
The controversy is controlled by the considerations which
governed the ruling made in Texas & Pacific Ry. Company v.
Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426. In that case suit was
brought in a court of the State of Texas to recover, because
of an exaction by a carrier, on an interstate shipment, of an
alleged unreasonable rate, although the rate charged was that
stated in the schedules duly filed and published in accordance
with the act to regulate commerce. After great consideration,
it was held that the relief prayed was inconsistent with the act
to regulate commerce, since by that act the rates, as filed, were
controlling until they had been declared to be unreasonable by
the Interstate Commerce Commission on a complaint made to
that body. It was pointed out that any other view would give

OCTOBER TERM, 1.909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

rise to inextricable confusion, would create unjust preferences
and undue discriminations, would frustrate the purposes of the
act, and, in effect, cause the act to destroy itself. The ruling
there made dealt with the provisions of the act as they existed
prior to the amendments adopted in 1906, and when those
amendments are considered they render, if possible, more
imperative the construction given to the act by that ruling,
since, by § 15, as enacted by the amendment of June 29, 1906,
the commission is empowered, indeed it is made its duty, in
disposing of a complaint, not only to determine the legality of
the practice alleged to give rise to an unjust preference or undue discrimination, and to forbid the same, but, moreover,
to direct the practice to be followed as to such subject for a
future period, not exceeding two years, with power in the
commission, if it finds reason to do so, to suspend, modify, or
set aside the same, the order, however, to become operative
without judicial action. In considering § 15 in the case of
'Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central Railroad
Co., just decided, ante, p. 452, it was pointed out that the effect
of the section was to cause it to come to pass that courts, in
determining whether an order of the commission should be
suspended or enjoined, were without power to invade the administrative functions vested in the commission, and therefore could not set aside an order duly made on a mere exercise
of judgment as to its wisdom or expediency. Under these circumstances it is apparent, as we have said, that these amendments add to the cogency of the reasoning which led to the
conclusion in the Abilene case, that the primary interference of
the courts with the administrative functions of the commission was wholly incompatible with the act to regulate commerce. This result is easily illustrated. A particular regulation of a carrier engaged in interstate commerce is assailed in
the courts as unjustly preferential and discriminatory. Upon
the facts found the complaint is declared to be well founded.
The administrative powers of the commission are invoked concerning a regulation of like character upon a similar com-

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. PITCAIRN COAL CO.
215 U. S.

495

Opinion of the Court.

plaint. The commission finds, from the evidence before it,
that the regulation is not unjustly discriminatory. Which
would prevail? If both, then discrimination and preference
would result from the very prevalence of the two methods of
procedure. If, on the contrary, the commission was bound to
follow the previous action of the courts, then it is apparent that
its power to perform its administrative functions would be
curtailed, if not destroyed. On the other hand, if the action
of the commission was to prevail, then the function exercised
by the court would not have been judicial in character, since
its final conclusion would be susceptible of being set aside by
the action of a mere administrative body. That these illustrations are not imaginary is established not only by this
record but by the record in the case of the The Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central Railroad Company,
ante, p. 452.
We say this record, because, as has been pointed out, one of
the questions which we would be called upon to decide if the
merits were open is whether the court below was right in holding that if anything but the physical capacity of a mine was
taken into consideration by a railroad company in rating the
mine for car distribution in time of car shortage, the act to
regulate commerce would be violated, and therefore the system adopted by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company
was repugnant to the act, because it made not alone the
physical capacity but past shipments factors to be considered.
But the reports of the Interstate Commerce Commission show
that on a complaint made to that body on the subject of the
system of mine rating of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company, the commission, before the decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals in this case was announced, had expressly
refused to hold that the system was either preferential or
prejudicial within the act to regulate commerce. In that report, speaking of the Baltimore and Ohio system of mine
rating, it was said (Rail & River Coal Co. v. B. & 0. R. R. Co.,
14 I. C. C. Rep. 94):

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

"This method of rating mines was adopted by the defendant in 1902, after a careful examination of the various systems
in force on other lines. It was intended as a compromise between ratings based on physical capacity only and ratings
based on commercial capacity only."
And after elaborately weighing the matter, it was said
(p. 95): "In combining the two systems the defendant has
adopted a middle ground, apparently upon the thought that
neither the physical nor the commercial capacity is always
a fair test. We are not prepared, on this record, to say that
there is no force in that view, and that a system of mine
rating based upon a combination of the physical and commercial capacities of the several mines does not more closely
approximate the actual car requirements of the mines than
a system based upon physical capacity only."
We say also the Illinois Central case, since it is shown in
that case that when the railroad company changed its regulations, presumably to have them conform to the administrative ruling made by the commission in the Hocking Valley
case, such change was prevented from going into effect by
an injunction issued by the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Illinois in the Majestic Coal Company case. And when the commission came to discharge its
duty upon the complaint made to it in the Illinois Central
case it was put to the alternative of either abdicating its administrative duties or making an order in violation of the
injunction.
And the destructive effect upon the system of regulation
devised by the act to regulate commerce, which these illustrations show must be the result of construing that act as
giving authority to the courts, without the preliminary action of the commission, to consider and pass upon the administrative questions which the statute has primarily confided
to that body, may be greatly multiplied. This is shown by
the opinion of the commission in the Baltimore and Ohio case,
to which we have already referred, where the decisions of

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. PITCAIRN COAL CO. 497
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

other lower courts are referred to in conflict with the opinion
of the court below in this case as to mine rating, and not in
harmony with the views expressed by the commission in the
Baltimore and Ohio case.
The court below deemed that it was its duty to award to
the coal company the relief by mandamus which was prayed,
upon the theory that § 23 of the act to regulate commerce
rendered it imperative to do so, this conclusion being specially
based upon the provision of that section authorizing the
remedy of mandamus to compel carriers "to furnish cars or
other facilities for transportation for the party applying for
the writ."
The section in question is as follows (§ 10 of Act of March 2,
1889, c. 382, 25 Stat. 855, 862):
"SEC.
23. That the Circuit and District Courts of the
'United States shall have jurisdiction upon the relation of any
person or persons, firm, or corporation, alleging such violation
by a common carrier, of any of the provisions of the act of
which this is a supplement and all acts amendatory thereof
as prevents the relator from having interstate traffic moved
by said common carrier at the same rates as are charged, or
upon terms or conditions as favorable as those given by said
common carrier for like traffic under similar conditions to any
other shipper, to issue a writ or writs of mandamus against
said common carrier, commanding such common carrier to
move and transport the traffic, or to furnish cars or other
facilities for transportation for the party applying for the
writ; Provided, That if any question of fact as to the proper
compensation to the common carrier for the service to be enforced by the writ is raised by the pleadings, the writ of peremptory mandamus may issue, notwithstanding such question of fact is undetermined, upon such terms as to security, payment of money into the court, or otherwise, as the
court may think proper, pending the determination of the
question of fact: Provided, That the remedy hereby given by
writ of mandamus shall be cumulative, and shall not be held
VOL. ccxV--q2

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of tile
Court.

215 U. S.

to exclude or interfere with other remedies provided by this
act or the act to which it is a supplement."
That it is not necessary to point out that there is ample
scope for giving effect to and applying the remedy embraced
in § 23, if that section be construed in harmony with the act
of which it forms a part, and not as destructive of one of the
main purposes of the act, is, we think, obvious. It is to be
observed that the section, besides empowering the use of the
writ of mandamus to compel the furnishing of cars and other
facilities for transportation, also authorizes the use of that
writ for the purpose of compelling the movement of traffic
"at the same rates as are charged, or upon terms or conditions
as favorable as those given by said common carrier for like
traffic under similar conditions to any other shipper." As it
was settled in the Abilene case that the right to question in
the courts the rates established in accordance with the act
to regulate commerce without previous resort, by complaint,
to the commission, in order to determine their unreasonableness, would be destructive of the act, and therefore was not
permissible, that ruling is equally applicable to the provision
as to furnishing cars contained in § 23, which is here relied
upon. But as we are required, for the determination of the
case now before us, to consider the scope of the act to regulate
commerce as now existing, as a result of the amendments of
1906, we shall not rest our conclusion alone upon the persuasive force of the reasoning which constrained to the conclusion announced in the Abilene case. Speaking generally,
it is true to say that, prior to 1889, although the prohibitions
of the act to regulate commerce as to preferences and discriminations were far reaching, the mechanism provided by
the statute for the enforcement of orders of. the commission
on the subject, as well as those concerning a finding as to unreasonable rates, were deemed to be in many respects ineffective, or at least tardy in operation or unsatisfactory in
prompt remedial results, and this because immediate effect
was not given to the orders of the commission, but the aid

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. PITCAIRN COAL CO. 499
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of judicial authority was required as a prerequisite for such
result. Section 23, here relied upon, was not part of the
original act, but, as we have said, was added thereto on
March 2, 1889, for the obvious purpose of making the remedial processes of the act more speedy and efficacious. Now,
it cannot in reason be questioned that among the purposes
contemplated by the amendments adopted in 1906 was the
curing of the presumed remedial inefficiency of the act by
supplying efficient means for giving effect to the orders of
the commission, made in the exertion of the authority conferred upon that body. To that end one of the amendments,
§ 15, gives operative effect to the orders of the commission
without the sanction of previous judicial authority, and endows that body with the power, not only as to unreasonable
rates, but as to practices found upon complaint to be unduly
prejudicial and unjustly discriminatory, to coi~rect the same
by its order, which order should have effect within the period
fixed in the statute, and, to enforce these provisions, penalties and forfeitures are provided. See. 16. It being demonstrable, as we have seen, that to give to § 23 the broad meaning which the court below affixed to it would be to destroy
or render inefficacious the remedial purposes of the amendments enacted in 1906, it must follow that such construction
cannot be adopted, since to do so would compel us to hold
that the wide and far-reaching remedies created by the amendments of 1906, were, in effect, destroyed by the narrower
remedial processes which had been previously enacted in
1889. This conclusion being in reason impossible, it must
follow that, construing the provisions of § 23 in the light of
and in harmony with the amendments adopted in 1906, the
remedy afforded by that section, in the cases which it embraces, must be limited either to the performance of duties
which are so plain and so independent of previous administrative action of the commission as not to require a prerequisite exertion of power by that body, or to compelling the
performance of duties which plainly arise from the obliga-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

tory force which the statute attaches to orders of the commission, rendered within the lawful scope of its authority,
until such orders are set aside by the commission or enjoined
by the courts.
Nor is there anything in the contention that the decision
in Southern Ry. Co. v. Tifl, 206 U. S. 428, qualifies the ruling
in the Abilene case, and is an authority supporting the right
to resort to the courts in advance of action by the commission for relief against unreasonable rates or unjust discriminatory practices, which, from their nature, primarily require
action by the commission. While it is true that the original
bill in the Tift case sought relief from alleged unreasonable
rates before action by the commission, yet, as said by this
court (p. 437):
"The Circuit Court granted norelief prejudicial to appellants on the original bill. It sent the parties to the Interstate
Commerce Commission, where, upon sufficient pleadings, identical with those before the court, and upon testimony adduced upon the issues made, the decision was adverse to the
appellants. This action of the commission, with its findings
and conclusions, was presented to the Circuit Court, and it
was upon these, in effect, the decree of the court was rendered. There was no demurrer to that petition, and the testiiony taken before the commission was stipulated into the
case, and the opinion of the court recites that, 'with equal
meritorious purpose, counsel for respective parties agreed that
this would stand for and be the hearing for final decree in
equity.' "
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed,
and the cause is remanded to the Circuit Court with directions to set aside its judgment, and enter judgment dismissing
the petition.
Reversed.
MR.JUSTicE HARLAN and

M,.JUSTICE

13REWER

dissent.

