OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

May 21st, 1903, and a perpetual injunction was then awarded
against the defendants. So that between the dissolution of the
preliminary injunction and the granting of the perpetual injunction more than five years elapsed, during which the defendants were not impeded or hindered by any injunction
against them. This is sufficient to show that the point just
stated is without merit. We need not, therefore, consider
the larger question, whether the five-years' limitation prescribed by Congress in the above act of March 3d, 1891, could
have been disregarded or enlarged either by the action or nonaction of the parties or by any order of injunction made by
the court in the progress of the cause.
There are some minor questions in the case, but they are
not of substance and need not be noticed. We perceive no
error of law in the record, and the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

MCKENNA did not participate in the con-

sideration or determination of this case.

UNITED STATES v. CELESTINE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 235.

Argued October 14, 1909.-Decided December 13, 1909.

Although an Indian may be made a citizen of the United States

and of the State in which the reservation for his tribe is located,

the United States may still retain jurisdiction over him for offenses
committed within the limits of the reservation; and so held as to
a crime committed by an Indian against another Indian on the
Tulalip Indian Reservation in Washington, notwithstanding the

Indians had received allotments under the treaties with the Omahas
of March 16, 1834, and of Point Elliott of January 22, 1835.

Mat-

UNITED STATES v. CELESTINE.
215 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ter of Heff, 197 U. S. 488, distinguished, the Indian in that case
being an allottee under the general allotment act of February 8,
1887, c. 119, 24 Stat. 388.

Legislation of Congress is to be construed in the interest of the Indians;
and, in the absence of a subjection in terms of the individual Indian
to state laws and denial of further jurisdiction over him by the
United States, a statute will not be construed as a renunciation of
jurisdiction by the United States of crimes committed by Indians
against Indians on Indian reservations.
The act of May 8, 1906, c. 2348, 34 Stat. 182, extending the trust
period of allottees under the act of 1887, suggests that Congress
believed it had been hasty in its prior action in granting citizen-

ship to Indians.

AT the May term, 1908, of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Washington an indictment was found against the defendant, the first count -of
which reads:
"That one Bob Celestine, an Indian, on the thirtieth day
of August, in the year of our Lord 1906, within the limits
of the Tulalip Indian Reservation, within the boundaries of
the State of Washington, and within said Western District
of Washington, Northern Division, did, with force and arms,
make an assault upon one Mary Chealco, an Indian woman,
with an axe, which the said Bob Celestine then and there
held in his hands, and did then and there feloniously, willfully,
knowingly, and with malice aforethought strike, beat, and
mortally wound said Mary Chealco with said axe upon the
head of the said Mary Chealco, with intent to kill and murder
her, the said Mary Chealco, giving to her, the said Mary
Chealco, a mortal wound upon the head, from which mortal
wound said Mary Chealco then and there languished and
died, within said Tulalip Indian Reservation, in said Western
District of Washington."
The second count is in similar terms, but charges in addition that the Tulalip Indian Reservation, where the offense
was committed, is "a place under the exclusive jurisdiction
of the United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for the United States.

215 U. S.

By a special plea the defendant challenged the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court, alleging that at the time of the offense
there had been allotted to him as the head of a family certain
lands situate on the Tulalip Indian Reservation, within the
limits of the State (then Territory) of Washington, under
the provisions of the treaty of January 22, 1855, (12 Stat.
927), and in accordance with an executive order of December 23, 1873, and that a patent therefor was issued and delivered to him on May 19, 1885; that he was then a member
of the Tulalip tribe of Indians; that ever since that date he
"has been and still is a citizen of the United States, and
therefore subject to the laws of the Territory and State of
Washington;" that he "was born within the territorial limits
of the United States and has always resided within such
limits," and that, therefore, he was entitled to "all the rights,
privileges and immunities of said citizens of the United
I
States."
This plea also alleged that the murdered woman was a
citizen of the United States and the widow of one Chealco
Peter, who, like the defendant, had received an allotment
of land within the Tulalip Reservation, and a patent thereof
similar to that of defendant; that she became entitled to
her husband's allotment upon his death, and that the place
of the commission of the offense was upon the very land
allotted to said Chealco Peter, and without the jurisdiction
of the court.
A demurrer by the Government to the plea was overruled
and judgment entered sustaining the plea.
A writ of error to this court was then sued out by the
United States under authority of the act of March 2, 1907,
c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for the United States:
This case presents squarely for the first time in this court
the question whether jurisdiction of the crime of murder
committed by an Indian allottee upon allotted land of an

UNITED STATES v. CELESTINE.
215 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Indian reservation in a State is vested in the state or in the
Federal courts. A determination of this question is deemed
important, because there should be no uncertainty concerning a matter so vital to the successful punishment of criminals.
The Tulalip Reservation was a legally constituted Indian
reservation. Re Wilson, 140 U. S. 575; Draper v. United
States, 164 U. S. 240.
The United States has authority to define and punish
crimes by or against Indians on reservations within the
States. United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S.375; Draper v.
United States, 164 U. S. 240; United States v. Thomas, 151
U. S.577; Elk v. United States, 177 U. S.529; United States
v. Bridleman, 7 Fed. Rep. 894; United States v. Martin, 14
Fed. Rep. 817; United States v. Barnhart, 22 Fed. Rep. 285.
The United States has not surrendered its criminal jurisdiction over the Tulalip Reservation. Matter of Heff, 197
U. S.488, distinguished.
Exemption from Federal jurisdiction is not to be presumed
in absence of clear legislative provision. Rugles v. Illinois,
108 U. S.526, 531.
This case lacks the element which in the Heff case was
declared essential to confer jurisdiction upon the state couxts,
to wit, a clear Federal legislative provision subjecting the
Indians to state laws.
The act of May 8, 1906, 34 Stat. 182, extending to the
expiration of the trust period the date when allottees under
the act of 1887 shall be subject to the state laws, and omitting
any references to allottees under other laws and treaties is
significant. It indicates that Congress found it had been too
hasty in placing the first-mentioned allottees under the
jurisdiction of the State, and that it did not think any extension of time necessary as to allottees under other acts
and treaties, because they had not been subjected to state
laws.
Citizenship is not inconsistent with continued Federal jurisdiction. United States v. Logan, 105 Fed. Rep. 240; United

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for the United States.

215 U. S.

States v. Mullin, 71 Fed. Rep. 682; Rainbow v. Young, 161
Fed. Rep. 835; United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 432; McKay
v. Kalyton, 204 U. S. 458; Beck v. Real Estate Co., 65 Fed.
Rep. 30; Farrell v. United States, 110 Fed. Rep. 942; Coombs,
Petitioner, 127 Massachusetts, 278; State v. Denoyer, 6 N. Dak.
586.
State v. Columbia George, 39 Oregon, 127, governs this case.
Columbia George was tried and convicted in the Federal
court. An application by him and Toy Toy, with whom
he was jointly indicted, for leave to file a petition for the
writ of habeas corpus, was denied by this court, 201 U. S.
64i. Thereafter a petition by Toy Toy for a writ of habeas
corpus upon the ground that, as he was a citizen, the Federal
court was without jurisdiction, was denied by the Circuit
Court and its action affirmed by this court on appeal, 212
U. S. 542.
To hold that the Federal courts are without jurisdiction
of such offenses, after the state courts have declined to exercise jurisdiction, might give rise to a serious condition of
affairs.
The rule contended for does not deprive the allottee of any
of the rights or privileges of citizenship. It is not contended
that a limited citizenship is conferred upon allottees, but
rather that citizenship is consistent with tribal existence and
Indian character. United States v. Real Estate Co., 69 Fed.
Rep. 886, 891.
The offense in question was committed on an Indian
reservation within the meaning of the act of March 3, 1885.
Couture v. United States, 207 U. S. 581; Eells v. Ross, 64 Fed.
Rep. 417, and see United States v. Flournoy Co., 71 Fed. Rep.
576; United States v. Mullin, and Rainbow v. Young, supra.
The conclusion that allotted land is not thereby excepted
from a reservation and is still Indian country within the
intention of Congress, seems to be the only reasonable and
proper one. Otherwise Federal statutes relating to reservations and the Indian country and punishing crimes therein

UNITED STATES v. CELESTINE.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

(Rev. Stat., §§ 2127-2157), would cease to apply, and thus
Congress, charged with the duty to protect the Indians,
would be held to have abandoned that duty entirely, when
in fact it only extended to them the privileges of citizenship.
There was no appearance or brief for the defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The fourth paragraph of the act of March 2, 1907, supra,
authorizes a review of a "decision or judgment sustaining a
special plea in bar, when the defendant has not been put in
.jeopardy." The defendant in this case had not been put
upon trial, therefore he had not been in jeopardy. The decision of the Circuit Court sustained the special plea in bar.
This fourth paragraph differs from the two preceding, in that
the review authorized by them is limited to cases in which
"the decision or judgment is based upon the invalidity or
construction of the statute upon which the indictment is
founded," while no such limitation appears in this paragraph. The full significance of this difference need not now
be determined, but clearly the fourth paragraph gives to
this court a right to review the precise question decided by
a trial court in sustaining a special plea in bar, although
that decision may involve the application rather than the
invalidity or construction, strictly speaking, of the statute
upon which the indictment was founded.
The general provision of the statutes in reference to punishment of the crime of murder committed within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States is found in chap. 3, Title 70,
Rev. Stat., §§ 5339-5391, as amended by the act of January 15, 1897, c. 29, 29 Stat. 487.
Section 9 of the act of March 3, 1885, c. 341, 23 Stat. 385,
provides for the punishment of certain crimes by Indians,
as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

"That immediately upon and after the date of the passage
of this act all Indians, committing against the person or
property of another Indian or other person any of the following crimes, namely, murder, manslaughter, rape, assault with
intent to kill, arson, burglary, and larceny within any Territory of the United States,

.

.

.

and all such Indians

committing any of the above crimes against the person or
property of another Indian or other person within the boundaries of any State of the United States, and within the limits
of any Indian reservation, shall be subject to the same laws,
tried in the same courts and in the same manner, and subject
to the same penalties as are all other persons committing any
of the above crimes within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States."
By this section Indians committing against other Indians
on a reservation in a State any of the crimes named are subject to Federal laws and tried in Federal courts.
That the offense was committed within the limits of the
Tulalip Indian Reservation is distinctly charged in the indictment and not challenged in the plea in bar. Although
the defendant had received a patent for the land within that
reservation, and although the murdered woman was the
owner of another tract within such limits, also patented,
both tracts remained within the reservation until Congress
excluded them therefrom.
By the second clause of § 3, Art. IV, of the Constitution,
to Congress, and to it alone, is given "power to dispose of
and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the
territory or other property belonging to the United States."
From an early time in the history of the Government it has
exercised this power, and has also been legislating concerning
Indians occupying such territory. Without noticing prior
acts, it is sufficient to refer to that of June 30, 1834, c. CLXI,
4 Stat. 729, the first section of which reads:
"Be it enacted, That all that part of the United States west
of the Mississippi, and not within the States of Missouri and

UNITED STATES v. CELESTINE.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Louisiana, or the Territory of Arkansas, and, also that part
of the United States east' of the Mississippi river, and not
within any State to which the Indian title has not been
extinguished, for the purposes of this act, be taken and
deemed to be the Indian country.".
Construing this section, it was decided, in Bates v. Clark,
95 U. S.204, 209, that all the country described in the act
as "Indian country" remains such "so long as the Indians
retain their original title to the soil, and ceases to be Indian
country whenever they lose that title, in the absence of any
different provision by treaty or by act of Congress." The
section was repealed by Rev. Stat., § 5596. Still, it was held
that it might be referred to for the purpose of determining
what was meant by the term "Indian country" when found
in sections of the Revised Statutes which were reenactments
of other sections of prior legislation. Ex parte Crow Dog,
109 U. S.556; United States v. Le Bris, 121 U. S.278. But
the word "reservation" has a different meaning, for while
the body of land described in the section quoted as "Indian
country" was a reservation, yet a reservation is not necessarily "Indian country." The word is used in the land law
to describe any body of land, large or small, which Congress
has reserved from sale for any purpose. It may be a military
reservation, or an Indian reservation, or, indeed, one for any
purpose for which Congress has authority to provide, and
when Congress has once established a reservation all tracts
included within it remain a part of the reservation until
separated therefrom by Congress. By the treaty of January 22, 1855 (12 Stat. 927), known as the treaty of Point
Elliott, it was provided that certain lands should be reserved
for the "use and occupation of the Indians." And, further,
article 3, "that the President may establish the central
agency and general reservation at such other point as he may
deem for the benefit of the Indians." On December 23,
1873, the President established the boundaries of the Tulalip
Reservation in the Territory of Washington. The tract sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

sequently allotted to defendant, as well as that upon which
the crime was committed, are within the boundaries prescribed in this executive order. Article 7 of the treaty of
Point Elliott authorizes the President to set apart separate
tracts within the reservation to such individuals or families
as were willing to avail themselves of the privilege and locate
on the same as a permanent home, on the same terms and
subject to the same regulations as are provided in the sixth
article of the treaty with the Omahas, so far as the same
may be applicable. The treaty with the Omahas, March 16,
1854, (10 Stat. 1043,) provides for the location by an individual or family on land within the Omaha Reservation,
its assignment for a permanent home, for the issue of
a patent to such person or family, with conditions against
alienation or leasing, exemption from levy, sale or forfeiture,
not to be disturbed by the State without the consent of
Congress; and, further, that if the (p. 1045) "person or family
shall at any time neglect or refuse to occupy and till a portion of the lands assigned and on which they have located,
or shall rove from place to place, the President may, if the
patent shall have been issued, cancel the assignment; .
and in default of their return the tract may be declared
abandoned, and thereafter assigned to some other person or
family of such tribe, or disposed of as is provided for the
disposition of the excess of said land." The patent issued
to the defendant recites that it is issued under the provisions
of the article referred to in the treaty with the Omaha Indians.
The plea does not challenge the continued tribal organization of the Tulalip Indians, or question that the tribe, as
well as the general body of the reservation, continues under
the general care of the United States. Indeed, at the time
of the crime the Tulalip Reservation was occupied by 453
Indians, under the charge of an Indian agent. Rep. Com.
Ind. Affairs, 1906, pp. 377, 483. Thirteen thousand five
hundred and sixty acres have been allotted to 94 of these
Indians, and the residue, 8,930 acres, remains unallotted.

UNITED STATES v. CELESTINE.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Rep. Com. Ind. Affairs, 1908, p. 162. The fact of the patent
to Chealco Peter is all that is claimed shows a want of jurisdiction of the United States over the place of the offense, but
the conditions of the treaty with the Omahas, made by reference a part of the treaty with the Tulalip Indians, providing
for only a conditional alienation of the lands, make it clear
that the special jurisdiction of the United States has not been
taken away.
Eells et al. v. Ross (12 C. C. A. 205, Circuit Court of Appeals of the United States for the Ninth Circuit) presented
the question of the revocation of a reservation. The treaty
with the Puyallup Indians contains like provisions in regard
to alienation and forfeiture as are in the treaty with the
Omahas.Circuit Judge McKenna, now Mr. Justice McKenna of this
court, in delivering the unanimous opinion of that court, said
(p. 207):
"It is not disputed that the lands are a part of those set
apart as the Puyallup Reservation, and that the reservation
has not been directly revoked; but it is contended that the
allotment of the lands in severalty, and afterwards making
the Indians citizens, necessarily had the effect to revoke the
reservation. There is plausibility in the argument, and it
needs to be carefully considered. It is clear that the allotment alone could not have this effect, (The Kansas Indians,
5 Wall. 737) and citizenship can only have it if citizenship
is inconsistent with the existence of a reservation. It is not
necessarily so.
"Some of the restraints of a reservation may be inconsistent
with the rights of citizens. The advantages of a reservation
are not; and if, to secure the latter to the Indians, others not
Indians are excluded, it is not clear what right they have to
complain. The act of 1887, which confers citizenship, clearly
does not emancipate the Indians from all control, or abolish
the reservations."
Dick v. United States, 208 U. S. 340, does not conflict with

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

these views, for there the place of the offense was the village
of Culdesac, which, although within the boundaries of the
Nez Perce Reservation, as at first established, was located
upon lands passed by patent from the United States under
the townsite laws to the probate judge of Nez Perce County,
and by the townsite act such location could only be on public
lands. Rev. Stat., § 2380.
But it is contended that although the crime may have
been committed on an Indian reservation, yet it does not
come within the last sentence of §9 of the act of March 3,
1885, supra, by reason of the fact that both defendant and
the woman murdered held patents from the United States,
and Matter of Heff, 197 U. S.488, is cited as authority. But
there are these important differences between the two cases.
In that the person to whom the defendant sold liquor (the
charge being that of selling liquor to an Indian) had received
a patent under the provisions of the act of Congress of February 8, 1887, known as the General Allotment Act (c. 119,
24 Stat. 388), whereas the patents in this case were issued
under the authority of the treaty with the Omahas, March 16,
1854, supra, and the treaty of Point Elliott, January 22,
1855, supra. It also appeared that the sale was made, not
on any reservation, while here the murder was committed
within the limits of one.
Section 5 of the act of February 8, 1887, provides (24 Stat.
389) "That upon the approval of the allotments provided
for in this act by the Secretary of the Interior, he shall cause
patents to issue therefor," etc. Section 6 is as follows "(24
Stat. 390):
"SEC. 6. That upon the completion of said allotments and

the patenting of the lands to said allottees, each and every
member of the respective bands or tribes of Indians to whom
allotments have been made shall have the benefit of and be
subject to the laws, both civil and criminal, of the State or
Territory in which they may reside; and no Territory shall
pass or enforce any law denying any such Indian within its

UNITED STATES v. CELESTINE.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction the equal protection of the law. And every
Indian born within the territorial limits of the United States
to whom allotments shall have been made under the provisions of this act, or under any law or treaty, and every Indian
born within the territorial limits of the United States who
has voluntarily taken up, within said limits, his residence
separate and apart from any tribe of Indians therein, and has
adopted the habits of civilized life, is hereby declared to be a
citizen of the United States, and is entitled to all the rights,
privileges, and immunities of such citizens, whether said
Indian has been or not, by birth or otherwise, a member of
any tribe of Indians within the territorial limits of the United
States without in any manner impairing or otherwise affecting the right of any such Indian to tribal or other property."
It will be seen that the first sentence of the latter section,
which provides that the allottees shall be "subject to the
laws, both civil and criminal, of the State or Territory in
which they may reside," applies to allotments and patents
made under the authority of that act, whereas the other
sentence refers to allotments made under the act of 1887,
or under any law or treaty, and in respect to the allottee it is
provided only that he "is hereby declared to be a citizen of
the United States, and is entitled to all the rights, privileges,
and immunities of such citizens." In other words, so far as
the plea is concerned, it is only that Celestine was a citizen
of the United States, and entitled to all the rights, privileges
and immunities of such citizenship.
We assume, without deciding, that although Celestine was
born within the territorial limits of the United States he was
not, under the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment,
a citizen of the United States prior to the issue of the patent
to him; that the jurisdiction of the United States was over
the tribe of which he was a member, and not over him personally; so that by the act of 1887 he was given a citizenship
in the United States and in the State which did not theretofore belong to him. But, although made a citizen of the
VOL. CCXV-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

United States and of the State, it does not follow that the
United States lost jurisdiction over him for offenses committed within the limits of the reservation. We had occasion in the Malter of Heff, supra, to notice the fact that the
first dealings with Indians were with them as tribes, but that
of late there had been a change in the policy and a disposition
to put an end to tribal organization and give to them as
individuals all the rights of citizenship, saying (197 U. S. 499):
"Of late years a new policy has found expression in the
legislation of Congress-a policy which looks to the breaking
up of tribal relations, the establishing of the separate Indians
in individual homes, free from national guardianship and
charged with all the rights and obligations of citizens of the
United States. Of the power of the Government to carry out
this policy there can be no doubt. It is under no constitutional obligation to perpetually continue the relationship of
guardian and ward. It may at any time abandon its guardianship and leave the ward to assume and be subject to all the
privileges and burdens of one sui Juris. And it is for Congress to determine when and how that relationship of guardianship shall be abandoned. It is not within the power of the
courts to overrule the judgment of Congress. It is true there
may be a presumption that no radical departure is intended,
and courts may wisely insist that the purpose of Congress
be made clear by its legislation, but when that purpose is
made clear the question is at an end."
Notwithstanding the gift of citizenship, both the defendant
and the murdered woman remained Indians by race, and
the crime was committed by one Indian upon the person of
another, and within the limits of a reservation. Bearing in
mind the rule that the legislation of Congress is to be construed in the interest of the Indian, it may fairly be held that
the statute does not contemplate a surrender of jurisdiction
over an offense committed by one Indian upon the person
of another Indian within the limits of a reservation; at any
rate, it cannot be said to be clear that Congress intended

UNITED STATES v. SUTTON.
215 U. S.

Syllabus.

by the mere grant of citizenship to renounce entirely its
jurisdiction over the individual members of this dependent
race. There is not in this case in terms a subjection of the
individual Indian to the laws, both civil and criminal, of the
State; no grant to him of the benefit of those laws; no denial
of the personal jurisdiction of the United States.
The act of May 8, 1906, c. 2348, 34 Stat. 182, extending
to the expiration of the trust period the time when the allottees of the act of 1887 shall be subject to state laws, is
worthy of note as suggesting that Congress, in granting full
rights of citizenship to Indians, believed that it had been
hasty. See, upon the general questions discussed, United
States v. Mullin, 71 Fed. Rep. 682; Rainbow v. Young, 16]
Fed. Rep. 835; State v. Columbia George, 39 Oregon, 127;
State v. Columbia George, 201 U. S. 641; Couture v. United
States, 207 U. S. 581; Toy Toy v. Hopkins, 212 U. S. 542.
The judgment is
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. SUTTON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 312.

Submitted October 15, 1909.-Decided December 20, 1909.

United States v. Celestine, ante, p. 278, followed, as to continuance

of jurisdiction of United States over offenses committed within
the limits of an Indian reservation.
The Indians, as wards of the Government, are the beneficiaries of
the prohibition against the introduction of liquor into Indian
country; and, under the Washington enabling act, jurisdiction and
control over Indian lands remains in the United States, and Congress has power to prohibit and punish the introduction of liquor
therein.

