OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

FLEMING v. McCURTAIN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 253. Argued October 20, 21, 1909.-Decided November 8, 1909.
The grant in letters patent, issued in pursuance of the treaty of Dancing
Rabbit Creek of September 27, 1830, 7 Stat. 333, conveying the tract
described to the Choctaw Indians in fee simple to them and their
descendants to inure to them while they should exist as a nation and
live thereon, was a grant to the Choctaw Nation, to be administered
by it as such; it did not create a trust for the individuals then comprising the nation and their respective descendants in whom as
tenants in common the legal title would merge with the equitable
title on dissolution of the nation.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frank Hagerman and Mr. John G. Carlisle,with whom
Mr. Webster Ballinger and Mr. Albert J. Lee were on the brief
for appellants.'
Mr. Edward P. Hill, with whom Mr. David C. McCurtain
was on the brief for Green McCurtain, appellee.'
The Solicitor General for Richard A. Ballinger, Secretary
of the Interior, appellee.'
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity purporting to be brought by and on
I These briefs consist of over 350 printed pages and contain rdsum6s
and compilations of, and extracts from, the treaties and statutes abolishing Indian tribal government and the distribution of the Indian
lands among the members of the five civilized tribes under the plan
of the Dawes Commission.

FLEMING v. McCURTAIN.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

behalf of some thirteen thousand persons "all persons of
Choctaw or Chickasaw Indian blood and descent and members
of a designated class of persons for whose exclusive use and
benefit a special grant was made" of certain property in Oklahoma. The principal defendants are, the Secretary of the Interior; McCurtain, Chief of the Choctaws; Johnston, Governor
of the Chickasaws, and all persons whose names appear with
theirs on the rolls of "Citizens" of the Choctaw and Chickasaw
Nations respectively, and all persons whose names appear upon
the "freedmen" rolls of those Nations, as approved by the Secretary of the Interior on or before March 4, 1907, these being
the persons to whom the Secretary of the Interior is proceeding to allot the above-mentioned property, being all the property of the tribe. The main object of the bill is to restrain the
allotment to the defendants and to undo it so far as it has
taken place, to establish the title of the plaintiffs for the purpose of allotment, and to have a new distribution decreed. A
firm of lawyers is joined, on the allegation that they have rcceived a portion of the property under a fraudulent'arrangement. The bill was demurred to for want of equity and for
want of jurisdiction in the court.
The Circuit Court examined the treaty and conveyance
under which the plaintiffs claim and held that they did not confer the rights alleged in the bill; that the right to share in the
distribution depended on membership in one of the two tribes,
except in the case of freedmen, specially provided for; that
who were members of the respective tribes, and entitled to enrollment as such, was a matter for Congress to determine; that
Congress had adopted ,certain rolls when finally approved by
the Secretary of the Interior; that the Secretary had acted and
the plaintiffs had been excluded; that his action was final, and
that the court had no jurisdiction in the case. The demurrer
to the jurisdiction was sustained, the bill was dismissed, and
the plaintiffs appealed to this court.
The plaintiffs found their claim upon the Choctaw treaty of
Dancing Rabbit Creek, September 27, 1830, Article 2, 7 Stat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

333, and letters patent of March 23, 1842, coupled with a treaty
between the Choctaws and Chickasaws of January 17, 1837,
ratified by the Senate March 24, 1837, 11 Stat. 573. By Article 2 of the treaty of 1830 "The United States under a grant
specially to be made by the President of the U. S. shall cause
to be conveyed to the Choctaw Nation a tract of country west
of the Mississippi River, in fee simple to them and their descendants, to inure to them while they shall exist as a nation
and live on it;" with the boundaries. The letters patent recite
this article, and, 'in execution of the agreement,' grant the
described tract, to have and to hold the same "as intended to
be conveyed by the aforesaid article 'in fee simple to them and
their descendants to inure to them while they shall exist as a
nation and live on it,' liable to no transfer or alienation except
to the United States or with their consent." The treaty with
the Choctaws gave the Chickasaws a district within the limits of
the Choctaws' country, "to be held on the same terms that the
Choctaws now hold it, except the right of disposing of it,
which is held in common with the Choctaws and Chickasaws,
to be called the Chickasaw district of the Choctaw Nation."
The plaintiffs say that the patent conveyed the legal title to
the Choctaw Nation in trust for such persons as were members
of the tribe at the date of the treaty, or of the Chickasaw tribe
at the date of the treaty with them, and their respective descendants, and that upon the dissolution of the nation the legal
title merged with the equitable title, and the designated class
became the absolute owners of the property as tenants in common.
The plaintiffs, in aid of their view, refer to various
indications that the policy of the United States already was looking
toward the disintegration of the Indian tribes, point out that
the words on which they rely were interlined in the Government draft at the instance of the Indians, and from these and
other circumstances argue that their construction is confirmed.
They say that the dominant phrase is "in fee simple to them
and their descendants," and that the use of the plural 'them'

FLEMING v. McCURTAIN.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

shows a transition from the Nation as formal grantee to the
members as beneficiaries. They say that 'descendants' was
used instead of 'heirs' or 'children' to avoid questions of
legitimacy, or giving an absolute title to living members and
their children, and to establish a principle of devolution suitable to the mode of life and unions in. those Indian tribes.
They conclude that the words "inure to them while they shall
exist as a nation and live on it," only mark the duration of the
legal title and do not cut down the equitable right conferred
by the earlier words.
As we cannot agree with this construction it will be unnecessary to consider many of the further allegations of the bill.
The foundation of the plaintiffs' case is upon the words of the
treaty and the patent that we have set forth. Those words
seem to us to convey a different meaning on their face, a
meaning that would not be changed but rather confirmed if we
were to refer at length to the earlier and later dealings with
the tribes, which we shall not need to do. We should mention,
however, that the United States already had ceded this tract
to the Choctaw Nation, with no qualifying words, by the
treaty of October 18, 1820, Article 2, 7 Stat. 210. Choctaw
Nation v. United States, 119 U. S. 1, 38. The treaty of 1830
only varied the description a little and provided for a special
patent. But it would not better the plaintiffs' case if the
treaty of 1830 were the single root of their grant. In a grant
to the Choctaw Nation as a nation it was natural, as in other
cases, to use some words of perpetuity. Of course the United
States could use what words it saw fit to manifest its purpose,
but the habit derived from private conveyances would be
likely to prevail, and as in such instruments the gift of a fee
is expressed by adding to the name of the grantee the words
' and his heirs,' or in case of a corporation, although unnecessary, its 'successors and assigns,' here also some addition
was to be expected to the mere name of the grantee. The
word Nation is used in the treaty as a collective noun, and as
such, according to a common. usage, is accompanied by a plural

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

verb in the very next article. ("The Choctaw Nation of Indians consent and hereby cede.") Therefore the second article
says 'to them' rather than 'to it,' just as it says "while they
(i. e., the Nation) shall exist as a Nation," and it adds to the
untechnical 'in fee simple' untechnical words of limitation
of a kind that would indicate the intent to confine the grant
to the Nation, which 'successors' would not, and at the same
time to imply nothing as to the rules for inheritance of tribal
rights, as "heirs" might have seemed to do. We may compare "for the Government of the Choctaw Nation of Red
People and their descendants," in Article 4. The word was
addressed to the Indian mind.
There is not a suggestion of any trust in the language to
either the technical or the unlearned reader, and it is most
unlikely that the United States would have attempted to impose one upon the Choctaws in favor of the existing members
of the tribe in the very 'Treaty' that dealt with them as a
quasi independent nation recognized by Article 5 as having
the right to make war, and that by the fourth article bound
the United States to secure to that nation "the jurisdiction
and government of all the persons and property that may be
within their limits west," etc. It is true that in further
promising to secure the nation from all laws except those enacted by their own National Councils, the fourth article adds
"not inconsistent with the Constitution, Treaties and Laws
of the United States;" but this addition is far from suggesting that a constitutional right of property has been conferred
upon a designated class, that might be enforced in a Circuit
Court of the United States by a bill in equity against what was
called a Nation. How far any one was from that understanding or from doubting that all the rights granted by the United
States were in the Choctaw Nation is shown by the treaty
with the Chickasaws upon which the plaintiffs rely. The
nation had no right to make that treaty as it did, if it was
subject to the trust supposed. Again,. the limitation of time,
' while they shall exist as a nation and live on it,' shows that

FLEMING v. McCURTAIN.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the grant has reference to the corporate existence of the nation as such, and very plainly qualifies the absoluteness of the
earlier words, "in fee simple." The suggestion that it limits
the duration of the legal title only but leaves a trust outstanding is simply arbitrary. If the plural signifies the members of a class constituted cestuis que trust the limitation
would attach to the trust. But the only answer necessary is
that no such separation or intent can be discovered in the
words.
What we have said shows another sufficient answer to the
plaintiffs' claim. They say and argue, as they must in order
to make out their right to a distribution to themselves, that
the Choctaws and Chickasaws no longer exist as nations. But
if so, the grant also was at an end when the nations ceased to
be, and it rested with the bounty of the United States to decide what should be done with the land, except so far as it
already had been decided by treaties or statutes upon which
the plaintiffs do not and cannot rely. It is said that by Article 18, in case of any well-founded doubt as to the construction of the treaty, it is to be construed most favorably toward the Choctaws. But there is no well-founded doubt,
except whether the construction contended for would have
been regarded as favorable to the Choctaws, since it would
have cut down the autonomy that the treaty so carefully expressed. See further Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S.
445, 488. Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294, 307.
Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553, 568.
The residue of the bill becomes immaterial upon the failure
of the plaintiffs to make out a title under the treaty and patent. It refers to the act of June 28, 1898, c. 517, 30 Stat. 495,
and the earlier statutes leading up to it, which established a
commission, ordered it to prepare correct rolls of citizenship,
and provided by §21 of the act of 1898 that the rolls so made,
when approved by the Secretary of the Interior, should be
final, (See also Acts of March 3, 1901, c. 832, 31 Stat. 1058,
1077,; April 26, 1906, c. 1876, 34 Stat. 137.) By § 11 a divi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

sion was to be made among the "citizens" of the tribes according to the rolls, and by § 12 the allottees were to have undisturbed possession when the report of the allotments had been
made to the Secretary of the Interior and confirmed by him.
By § 29 an agreement with the Choctaws and Chickasaws on
the matter was ratified, and by act of July 1, 1902, c. 1362,
32 Stat. 641, a further agreement was ratified, which again
excluded all except those whose names were on the roll. Art.
35. The bill charges that these agreements, as well as a part
of the act of 1898, were void as excluding some of the plaintiffs
who were not residents of the nation on June 28, 1898, and as
not having been approved by the class, or a majority of the
class, alleged to have been designated by the treaty and patent
that we have discussed. The bill goes on to allege that rolls
were prepared by the Commission, and approved by the Secretary, within the time allowed by the statutes, (Act of April 26,
1906, c. 1876, § 2, 34 Stat. 137), and that the time has expired, but the rolls were not made in conformity to the act of
1898, and are not correct but fraudulent, in various particulars
set forth.
But these allegations make out no case for the plaintiffs.
It is said that the statutes recognize individual rights as already existing. It is true that by a treaty of June 22, 1855,
11 Stat. 611, the United States guaranteed the lands "to the
members of the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes, their heirs
and successors, to be held in common; so that each and every
member of either tribe shall have an equal, undivided interest
in the whole" with provisos. But the plaintiffs do not claim
under this treaty or mention it in their bill, or a treaty of
April 28, 1866, 14 Stat. 769, by Articles 11-36 of which the
change from common to individual ownership was agreed,
and it was provided that unselected land should "be the common property of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, in
their corporate capacities," etc. Art. 33. They might be
descendants or the members of the tribe as it was in 1839 or
1842, and yet not members or heirs of members of the tribe

MARBLES v. CREECY.
215 U. S.

Syllabus.

of 1854, therefore it is unnecessary to construe this treaty.
Neither do the plaintiffs claim under any title to be derived
from the statute providing for distribution according to the
rolls of citizenship. They do not allege that they are citizens
or attempt to bring themselves within any grant later than
the treaty and patent that we have discussed. They disclose
that their names are not upon the rolls and that the decision
of the Secretary of the Interior has been against them and
they show no reason for our not accepting the rolls and decision as final according to the terms of the distributing acts.
See West v. Hitchcock, 205 U. S. 80; Garfield v. Goldsby, 211
U. S. 249, 259.
Decree affirmed.

MARBLES v. CREECY, CHIEF OF POLICE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 23.

Submitted November 5, 1909.-Decided November 15, 1909.

The executive of a State upon whom a demand is made for the surrender of a fugitive from justice may act on the papers in the absence
of, and without notice to, the accused, and it is for that executive to
determine whether he will regard the requisition papers as sufficient
proof that the accused has been charged with crime in, and is a
fugitive from justice from, the demanding State, or whether he will
demand, as he may if he sees fit so to do, further proof in regard to
such facts.
A notice in the requisition papers that the demanding State will not
be responsible for any expenses attending the arrest and delivery of
the fugitive does not affect the legality of the surrender so far as the
rights of the accused under the Constitution and laws of the United
States are concerned.
The executive of the surrendering State need not be controlled in the
discharge of his duty by considerations of race or color, or, in the

