MECHANICAL APPLIANCE CO. v. CASTLEMAN. 437
215 U. S.

Syllabus.

March 4, 1879, constituted a contract for and during the term
of complainant's charter, as alleged in the amended bill. In
the amended bill it is alleged that the charter rights of the
company were extended to March 1, 1937; this is undoubtedly
averred because of the amendment to the charter which appears in the record, extending the term of the company's
corporate life until that time. The decree as it stands might
be construed as establishing a contract to endure until March,
1937.
All that was necessary to adjudge was that the company,
by virtue of the ordinance of July 9, 1875, as amended in
July, 1878, as ratified and confirmed by the act of the legislature of the State of Minnesota of March 4, 1879, constituted a valid contract for the term of fifty gears from July 1,
1873, which is still so far in force as to prevent the city council from reducing the rate of fare below the sum of five cents
for each passenger for one continuous passage, and enjoining
the city from publishing and enforcing the ordinance of
February 9, 1907, because the same impaired the obligation
of the subsisting contract aforesaid.
The decree of the Circuit Court should be modified so as to
meet these requirements, and, so modified,
Affirmed.

MECHANICAL APPLIANCE COMPANY v. CASTLEMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 48.

Argued December 3, 1909.-Decided January 3, 1910.

Whether defendant was subject to service of process at the place where
served is one of the jurisdictional questions which may be-brought
directly to this court under § 5 of the Court of Appeals Act as
amended January 20, 1897, c. 68, 29 Stat. 492. Remington v. Central Pacific Railroad Co., 198 U. S. 95.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

After removal from the state to the Federal court, the moving party
has a right to the opinion of the Federal court not only on the
merits, but also as to the validity of the service of process.
In Federal jurisdiction a foreign corporation can be served with process under a state statute only when it is doing business therein, and
such service must be upon an agent representing the corporation
in its business. Goldey v. Morning News Co., 156 U. S. 518.
Notwithstanding the conformity act, § 914, Rev. Stat., decisions
and statutes of States are not conclusive upon the Federal courts
in determining questions of jurisdiction.
Even if by the law of the State the sheriff's return is conclusive and
cannot be attacked, after removal into the Federal court, that court
can determine whether a defendant was properly served; and if,
as in this case, it appears that the corporation was not doing business
in the State, the court should dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction by proper service.
In such case, and on such a question, it is proper for the court to
consider affidavits, it not appearing in the record that any objection was taken thereto.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lee W. Grant, with whom Mr. P. B. Kennedy was on

the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Benjamin T. Castleman, defendant in error, pro se.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes here under § 5 of the Court of Appeals Act,
as amended January 20, 1897, 29 Stat. 492, c. 68, upon a certificate from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri, presenting a question of the jurisdiction of that court to entertain a suit brought by Benjamin T. Castleman, defendant in error, against the Mechanical
Appliance Company, plaintiff in error, to recover for the breach
of a certain alleged contract concerning the making and delivery of massage motors.
The action was originally brought in the Circuit Court of
the city of St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, and the Mechan-

MECHANICAL APPLIANCE CO. v. CASTLEMAN. 439
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ical Appliance Company, a foreign corporation, then defendant, removed the case to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Missouri upon the ground of diverse citizenship. After the case reached the United States
Circuit Court the bill of exceptions shows that a motion to
quash the summons and certain affidavits were withdrawn,
and a plea to the jurisdiction was filed.
The original service of summons in the state court had been
made by the sheriff, who returned the summons as follows:
"Served this writ at the city of St. Louis, Missouri, on the
within named defendant the Mechanical Appliance Company
(a corporation) this 29th day of December, 1906, by delivering a copy of the writ and petition furnished by the clerk to
Dudley Shaw, agent of the said defendant corporation, he
being in said defendant's usual business office and in charge
thereof. The president or other chief officer of said defendant could not be found in the city of St. Louis at the time of
service."
In the plea to the jurisdiction, in the Circuit Court of the
United States, the plaintiff in error set up:
"1. That it is a corporation, organized under the laws of
the State of Wisconsin, that it has never taken out a license
to do business in the State of Missouri, and that at the time
of the alleged service of the writ of summons herein as set
out in the return of the sheriff, to wit, 29th day of December,
1906, the defendant did not have any agent, office or place
of business in the city of St. Louis or in the State of Missouri.
"2. That the person upon whom service was attempted to
be had by the sheriff, and to whom a copy of the summons
and petition was delivered, to wit, Dudley Shaw, was not and
had not been for some time prior thereto an officer, agent or
employ6 of this defendant. That said Dudley Shaw was not,
at the time of the delivery of the summons herein to him by
the sheriff, in charge of defendant's usual business office, or
in defendant's usual business office in the city of St. Louis,
for the reason that this defendant had, at said time, no busi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

ness office nor any other office in the city of St. Louis, State
of Missouri."
Certain affidavits are set out in the bill of exceptions, and
it. is therein stated that they were filed. Two affidavits ap-,
pear to have been filed in support of the plea to the jurisdiction,. and one, by the plaintiff, in opposition thereto. In the
certificate the learned Circuit Judge states:
"I hereby certify that in this cause the following question
of jurisdiction arose: the defendant filed a plea to the jurisdiction of the court on the ground that it was a corporation
organized under the laws of the State of Wisconsin, that it
has no office, place of business, or agent in, and was not doing
business in the State of Missouri at the time of the service of
summons herein and that the person served with the process
herein was not the agent of the defendant at the time of said
service. Defendant filed affidavit in support of the plea.
I overruled the plea on the ground that the facts stated in the
return of the sheriff to the summons were conclusive on the
defendant and could not be controverted by it. When the
cause was called for trial the same objection was made by
the defendant and overruled for the same reason. The question only of jurisdiction of the court is, therefore, hereby certified to the Supreme Court of the United States for its decision thereon."
It is settled that a question of this character involves the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a Federal court and may
be brought here by writ of error under § 5 of the Court of
Appeals Act of 1891 as amended in 1897. Remington v. Central Pacific RailroadCompany, 198 U. S. 95.
It is contended by the defendant in error that the plea to
the jurisdiction did not definitely state that the corporation
defendant was not doing business in the State of Missouri
at the time of the attempted service; and, furthermore, that
the affidavits were not shown to have been offered in evidence,
although the bill of exceptions states that the same were filed.
The certificate of the judge, which is required by statute in

MECHANICAL APPLIANCE CO. v. CASTLEMAN.
215 U. S.

441

Opinion of the Court.

order to bring the case to this court, states that the defendant raised, by plea to the jurisdiction, the grounds of objection that it was a foreign corporation, having no office, place
of business or agent in and was not doing business in the State
of Missouri at the time of the service of summons, and that
the person served with the process was not the agent of the
defendant at the time of said service.
The- certificate shows that the court did not consider the
affidavits, and overruled the plea on the sole ground that the
facts stated in the return of the sheriff to the summons were
conclusive, and could not be controverted by the defendant.
It is also stated in the certificate that when the case was called
for trial the same objection was made and overruled for the
same reason. In the light of this certificate and the statements
of the bill of exceptions we think it must be regarded that the
question was fairly before the court, notwithstanding the
somewhat meagre allegations of the plea in this respect, and
presented the question, which it is certified was decided, upon
plea and objections attacking the jurisdiction of the court,
because the corporation was not doing business in the State of
Missouri, and the person attempted to be served was not its
agent at that time.
In a memorandum opinion it is indicated that the learned
judge, in the court below, followed a previous ruling in the
same court; and it is stated thau it is the law of Missouri, as
held by its highest court, that in a case of this kind a return of
this character is conclusive upon the parties. But it is well
settled that, after removal from the state to the Federal court,
the moving party has a right to the opinion of the Federal
court, not only upon the question of the merits of the case,
but as to the validity of the service of process. Wabash Western Ry. Co. v. Brow, 164 U. S. 271, 278.
It is. equally well settled in the Federal jurisdiction that a
foreign corporation can be. served with process within the
State only when it is doing business therein, and that such
service must be upon an agent who represents the corporation

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

in its business. This subject underwent extensive consideration in the case of Goldey v. The Morning News, 156 U. S. 518,
and the rule is there stated by Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for
the court, as follows (p. 522):
t .
service of mesne process from a court of a State,
not made upon the defendant or his authorized agent within
the State, although there made in some other manner recognized as valid by its legislative acts and judicial decisions, can
be allowed no validity in the Circuit Court of the United States
after the removal of the case into that court, pursuant to the
acts of Congress, unless the defendant can be held, by virtue
of a general appearance or otherwise, to have waived the defect in the service, and to have submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the court."
In view of the principles thus determined, we think the return of the sheriff in the state court was not conclusive upon
the question of service. For when the question was raised in
the Circuit Court of the United States the jurisdiction of the
court would fail if it appeared that the corporation attempted
to be served was not doing business in the State of Missouri,
and the attempted service was not upon one of its agents.
Conley v. Mathieson Alkali Works, 190 U. S. 406; St. Clair v.
Cox, 106 U. S. 350; Peterson v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific
Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 364; Green v. C., B. & Q. Railway Co., 205
U. S. 530.
Defendant in error cites the case of Smoot v. Judd, 184
Missouri, 508, in which it was held that where a sheriff's return recited a personal service of process which was false, the
remedy of the unserved defendant against whom judgment
by default had been taken, in the absence of fraud on the part
of the plaintiff in the suit, was in an action on the sheriff's
bond for damages for the false return, and not by a suit to set
aside the sheriff's sale and deed made in pursuance of the default judgment. It is to be noted, in this connection, that the
attack upon the service in that case was made after judgment,
and not, as in the present case, by a motion to set aside the

MECHANICAL APPLIANCE CO. v. CASTLEMAN. 443
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

service of summons, or a plea to the jurisdiction over the person. Moreover, in cases which concern the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts, notwithstanding the so-called conformity act,
Revised Stats., § 914, neither the statutes of the State nor the
decisions of its courts are conclusive upon the Federal courts.
The ultimate determination of such questions of jurisdiction
is for this court alone. Western Loan & Savings Co. v. Butte &
Boston Consolidated Mining Co., 210 U. S. 368, 369; Mexican
Central Railway Co. v. Pinkney, 149 U. S. 194.
Defendant in error also relies upon the cases of Walker
v. Robbins, 14 How. 584, and Knox County v. Harshman,
133 U. S. 152. Neither of these cases control the one under
consideration. In Walker v. Robbins, supra, a bill in equity
was filed to enjoin enforcement of a judgment at law, entered
upon a false return of a marshal in the Circuit Court of the
Mississippi District. This court held that a bill in equity would
not lie for such purpose, and further, that the return was not
false, and if it were, the defendant Walker waived the want of
service by pleading to the merits of the action. It was there
said by Mr. Justice Catron, delivering the opinion of the court
(p. 585): "In cases of false returns affecting the defendant,
where the plaintiff at law is not in fault, redress can only be
had in the court of law where the record was made, and if relief cannot be had there, the party injured must seek his
remedy against the marshal."
The case was decided upon the grounds which we have
stated, and the language quoted, and relied upon by the defendant in error is very far from indicating that a party might
not appear specially and object to service of summons, and
move to set aside the same, and to dismiss the action upon the
grounds which are involved in the case at bar.
In Knox County v. Harshmana bill in equity was filed for an
injunction against the prosecution of a writ of mandamus to
enforce the levy of a certain tax against the county. The bill
alleged that neither the county court nor any of the judges
thereof had any notice of the suit until after the end of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

term at- which judgment was rendered, and that no service
of summons was made upon Frank P. Hall, the county clerk,
as was.stated in the marshal's return. This court, in an opinion by Mr. Justice Gray, held that a court of equity would not
interfere with the judgment, under the circumstances shown,
and as to the officer's return of service of copy of the summons on the clerk, if false, no fraud having been charged or
proved against the petitioner, redress must be sought in an
action at law, and not by a bill in equity; and that if the
questions of fact could be considered as open in the case, the
proof at the hearing showed that service had, in fact, been
made.
Neither of these cases involved the right of the defendant
to appear upon attempted service in an action at law, and by
motion, or plea for that purpose, raise the question of jurisdiction over his person. The case of Wabash Western Railway
Co. v. Brow, 164 U. S. 271, is much closer in its analogy to the
case at bar. In that case suit was commenced in the state
court, in Michigan, against the Wabash Western Railway
Company to recover in an action for damages. The service of
summons and copy of the declaration was made upon one Hill
as agent of the company. The case was removed to the
Federal court for the Eastern District of Michigan. The railroad company thereupon appeared and moved to set aside the
declaration and rule to plead, upon the ground of want of
jurisdiction, and filed an affidavit showing that Hill, upon
whom the service had been attempted, was the freight agent
of the Wabash Railroad Company, a corporation which owned
and operated a railroad from Detroit to the Michigan state
line, and was not an agent of the Wabash Western Railway
Company, the defendant in the suit; and, at the time of the
attempted service, the defendant did not'own, operate and
control any railroad in the State of Michigan, had no place of
business therein, and was not doing business within the State.
The action was overruled by the Circuit Court, the objection
to the jurisdiction was renewed when the defendant filed its

MECHANICAL APPLIANCE CO. v. CASTLEMAN. 445
215 U. S.

,Opinion

of the Court.

plea and before trial in the case, which resulted in a verdict and
judgment in favor of Brow.
The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit held that -the
filing of the petition for removal, in general terms, had effected
the appearance of the Wabash Western Railway Company to
the action. This court, in an opinion by Mr. Chief Justice
Fuller, held that the record disclosed that the corporation at
the time of the attempted service was neither incorporated
nor doing business, nor had any agent nor property within the
State of Michigan, and that the individual upon whom service
had been attempted was not the agent or an officer of the
corporation, and, therefore, no jurisdiction was acquired over
the person of the defendant by the attempted service; and,
further, that the petition for removal did not effect an appearance in the case, consequently reversing the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals and remanding the case to the Circuit
Court, with directions to grant a new trial, and to sustain the
motion to set aside the service and dismiss the action.
The Circuit Court should have considered the question upon
the issues of fact raised, as to the presence of the corporation
in Missouri and the authority of the agent upon whom service
had been attempted. It is true, as suggested by the defendant
in error, that the affidavits appearing in the bill of exceptions
are stated to have been filed, and there is,no definite statement that they were offered to be read in evidence, but we
think it is apparent that they were filed for that purpose. No
objection appears in the record to the filing of the affidavits; on
the other hand, it appears that the plaintiff below also filed
an affidavit. These affidavits are made part of the record by a
bill of exceptions and we think they should have been considered upon the question of jurisdiction.
As we have already indicated, the learned Circuit Court was
in error in holding that the return of the sheriff in the state
court concluded the parties, and had it considered the affidavits exhibited in the bill of exceptions, as in our view it should
have done, the conclusion would have been reached that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

215 U. S.

weight of the testimony disclosed that the defendant corporation was not doing business in the State of Missouri at the
time of the attempted service of process, and that the person
named in the return of the sheriff was not at that time the
duly authorized agent of the defendant corporation.
Holding these views, the judgment of the Circuit Court is
reversed, and the cause remanded to that court with directions
to dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction.
Reversed.

HAFFNER v. DOBRINSKI.
APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME

COURT

OF THE TERRITORY

OF

OKLAHOMA.

No. 35.

Submitted November 12, 1909.-Decided January 10, 1910.

In order that specific performance may be decreed on the ground of
part performance the acts done and relied on by the party seeking
relief must be such that damages would not be adequate relief.
Specific performance rests in judicial discretion to be exercised according to settled principles of equity and with reference to the
facts in the particular case, and it may be refused where, as in this
case, the conditions do not appeal to equitable consideration, even
in case of part performance.
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma did not err in refusing to decree
specific performance in a case where complainant had funds in his
possession sufficient to cover his damages, if any, and where that
court held that the alleged contract was unreasonable in its provisions, lacked mutuality, and the part performance did not take
the contract out of the statute of frauds.
17 Oklahoma, 438, affirmed.
THE Supreme Court of Oklahoma, from whose judgment
affirming the decree of the District Court of Kingfisher County
this appeal was prosecuted, stated the case as follows (17
Oklahoma, 438):

"This action was brought on the thirteenth day of May,

