OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

and therefore an instruction should have been given, as asked,
that there was no evidence of duress. We see no reason for
not following the opinion of the territorial court that the facts
also constituted duress within the meaning of the statute.
See Silsbee v. Webber, 171 Massachusetts, 378. But it does not
seem to matter what they are called if they are found to have
existed. Furthermore, we see no ground on which we can go
behind the finding that neither side carried out the alleged
October contract. There was some evidence to that effect,
and we are not concerned with its weight. We do not think
it necessary to mention all the points that we have examined.
Upon the whole case weare of opinion that no error of law is
disclosed that entitles the plaintiffs in error to a new trial.
Judgment affirmed.

RIO GRANDE DAM AND IRRIGATION COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.

No. 49.

Argued December 3, 1909.-Decided December 13, 1909.

Where a case is opened that further evidence may be produced, it
is also open for the amendment of the original pleadings or for

additional pleadings appropriate to the issues; and permission
by the lower court to file such supplemental complaint is not inconsistent with the mandate of this court remanding the case with
directions to grant leave to both sides to adduce further evidence.
Under the provisions of the Code of New Mexico allowing supplemental pleadings alleging facts material to the issue, the fact that
the defendant corporation has, since the suit was, brought by the
Government to enjoin it from so building a dam as to interfere with
the navigability of an international river, failed to exercise its
franchise in accordance with the statute, is germane to the object
of the suit and may be pleaded by supplemental complaint.

RIO GRANDE DAM &c. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 267
215 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The allowance of amendments of supplemental pleadings must at
every stage of the cause rest with the discretion of the court, which
discretiob must depend largely on the special circumstances of
each case, nor will the exercise of this discretion be reviewed in
the absence of gross abuse.
Attorneys of record are supposed to be present during the terms of
the court in which their causes are pending, and are chargeable
with notice of proceedings transpiring in open court.
In this case the action of the trial court in taking a supplemental
complaint for confessed in the absence of any pleading after the
time therefor had elapsed, sustained, there appearing to be no
excuse for the default and no irregularity appearing in the order
permitting the filing of the complaint or in the service thereof.
The fact that for a time work was enjoined at the instance of the
Government does not excuse the delay in completing work under
statutory permission within the time prescribed where the delay
exceeds the limit after deducting all the time for which the injunction was in force.
13 New Mexico, 386, affirmed.

THE general object of this suit-which was brought by the
United States in one of the courts of New Mexico on the
twenty-fourth day of May, 1897-was to obtain an injunction
to prevent the Rio Grande Dam and Irrigation Company from
constructing and maintaining a dam across, and a reservoir
over and near, the Rio Grande River at a certain point in that
Territory. In the court of original jurisdiction the suit was
dismissed and the dismissal was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the Territory; but that judgment was reversed by
this court, with instructions to set aside the decree of dismissal
and to inquire whether the intended acts of the defendants
in the construction of a dam and appropriating the waters of
the Rio Grande would substantially diminish the navigability
of that stream within the limits of present navigability; and,
if so, to enter a decree restraining those acts to the extent that
they would so diminish. United States v. Rio Grande Irrigation Company, 174 U. S. 690, 708, 710. The mandate of this
court to that effect was executed by the Supreme Court of the
Territory, and the cause went back to the court of original

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

215 U. S.

jurisdiction with directions to proceed in accordance with that
mandate.
The cause was again heard in the court of original jurisdiction, that court, denying a motion, in behalf of the United
States, for a continuance in order that it might more fully
prepare its case. The suit, on final hearing, was again dismissed, and that judgment was sustained by the Supreme
Court of the Territory. But this court reversed the decree of
the latter court and remanded the cause with instructions to
reverse the decree of the court of original jurisdiction, and
with directions "to grant leave to both sides to adduce further
evidence."

United States v.Rio Grande Dam & IrrigationCo.,

184 U. S.416, 424, 425. The mandate of this court to the
above effect was executed, and the case was again placed on
the docket of the court of original jurisdiction.
For a full statement of the issues and facts up to this point
in the litigation reference is made to the opinions of this court
as reported in 174 U. S.690, and 184 U. S.416.
The record shows that on the seventh day of April, 1903after the last decision in this court-the United States, by
leave of the court of original jurisdiction, filed a supplemental
complaint, which set forth the then status of the case. That
complaint referred to the defendant's plea, stating that it had
complied with the requirements of the act of Congress approved March 3d, 1891, repealing timber culture laws and for
other purposes, 26 Stat. 1095, 1102, c. 561, §§ 20, 21, and
"had acquired a right to construct said dam and divert said
water by reason of compliance with the terms of said Act."
It then proceeded: "II. Plaintiff further alleges that defendant's plea above referred to, claiming a right to construct said
dam under the said act of Congress, approved March 3d, 1891,
c. 561, was filed on June 26, A. D. 1897, and that its articles of
incorporation and proof of its incorporation, and the map and
survey of its reservoir had been filed and approved by the
Secretary of the Interior long prior to the filing of said plea, as
appears from an inspection of said plea itself. III. Plaintiff

RIO GRANDE DAM &c. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 269
215 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

further alleges that in and by section twenty of the said act of
March 3d, 1891, above referred to, it was provided 'that if any
section of said canal, or ditch, shall not be completed within
five years after the location of said section, the rights herein
granted shall be forfeited as to any uncompleted section of said
canal, ditch or reservoir, to the extent that the same is not
completed at the date of the forfeiture,' and that although
five years since the filing and approval of said articles of incorporation, proofs of organization, maps and surveys have
long since elapsed; defendant has not complied with the requirements of said act, but has failed to construct or complete
within the period of five years after the location of said canal
and reservoir any part or section of the same, and the same
has by reason thereof become forfeited. IV. Plaintiff further
alleges that during all of said time, except from May 24th,
1897, to1897, the date when the temporary injunction
was dissolved, the said defendants have been in no wise
hindered, restrained or prevented from complying with the
provisions of said act by any judicial order or process whatsoever. V. Wherefore, plaintiff prays to be permitted to file
this supplemental bill of complaint, and that the same be considered upon the hearing of this cause, and that the defendants
be decreed to have forfeited all the rights they may have had,
or claimed under and by virtue of said act of March 3d, 1891,
not hereby admitting, however, that the defendants ever acquired any rights under and by virtue of said act. Plaintiff
further pra'ys that the injunction, and all other relief prayed
for in and by said amended bill of complaint, be granted, and
that said injunction be made perpetual, and that it have and
recover its costs expended in this cause, and thus plaintiff will
ever pray."
A copy of this supplemental complaint was served on the
attorney of the defendants on the day (April 7th, 1903) it was
filed. More than forty days thereafter, on the twenty-first
day of May, 1903, a decree was entered finding the allegations
of the supplemental complaint-no demurrer, answer or other

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

215 U. S.

pleading having been filed thereto--" are confessed and are
true." The court further found "that the articles of incorporation and the map, survey of the reservoir of the defendant
corporation, the Rio Grande Dam and Irrigation Company,
were filed with the Secretary of the Interior prior to the
twenty-sixth*day of June, A. D. 1897, and were, prior to said
date, approved by the Secretary of the Interior; and it further
finds that the said defendants have not completed its said
reservoir or said ditch, or any section thereof, within five years
after the location of the said reservoir and its said ditch line,
or within five years after the approval of the same by the
Secretary of the Interior; and the court further finds that five
years since the filing and approval of the said articles of incorporation, proof of organization, maps and surveys of the
said reservoir and ditch line of the defendants had long since
elapsed prior to the filing of the said supplemental bill and
that the defendants had not complied with the requirements
of the act of Congress, approved March 3, 1901, under which
the same were filed, but have failed to construct or complete
within the period of five years after the location of the said
canal and reservoir any part or section of the same." And it
was adjudged "that the rights of the said defendants, or either
of them, to so construct and complete the said reservoir and
said ditch, or any part thereof, under and by virtue of the
said act of Congress of March 3, 1901, be and the same are
hereby declared to be forfeited. It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed by the court by reason of the premises
that an injunction be, and the same is hereby granted against
the said defendants, enjoining them from constructing or attempting to construct the said reservoir, or any part thereof,
and that the same be made perpetual." (By an amended decree filed October 5th, 1903, and entered nunc pro tunc as of
May 21st, 1903, the date given as March 3d, 1901, in the decree
was made to read March 3d, 1891, in order to conform to the
actual date of the act of Congress intended to be referred to
both by the United States and by the court.)

RIO GRANDE DAM &c. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 271
215 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

A statute of New Mexico, in force at the time and before the
above decree was rendered, provided: "Every pleading, subsequent to the complaint, shall be filed and served within
twenty days after service of the pleading to which it is an
answer, demurrer, or reply." Compiled Laws of New Mexico,
1907, Title 33; Code of Civil Procedure, c. 1, art. 4, sub. sec. 46.
On the thirty-first of October, 1903, the defendants moved
the court to vacate the order allowing the supplemental bill
to be filed, and that they be permitted to come in and answer
the supplemental bill. This motion was denied and upon appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory the action of the
trial court on this point was sustained. The former court, at
the same time, March 2d, 1906, adjudged that the right of the
defendants, or either of them, to construct and complete its
reservoir and ditch, or any part thereof, within the time required by the act of Congress of March 3d, 1901, was forfeited.
It was also adjudged that the defendants be enjoined from
constructing, or attempting to construct, the said reservoir or
any part thereof. The injunction was made perpetual. From
that judgment the present appeal was prosecuted.
Mr. William W. Bride and Mr. Frederick S. Tyler, with
whom Mr. Charles A. Douglas was on the brief, for plaintiffs
in error:
The lower court erred in permitting a supplemental complaint to be filed. This court has many times frowned upon
such acts. Southard v. Russell, 16 How. 547; Ex parte Dubuque, 1 Wall. 69; Ames v. Ki~nberly, 136 U. S. 629; Re Gamewell Co., 73 Fed. Rep. 908; West v. Brashear, 14 Pet. 51;
Mason v. Harpers Ferry, 20 West Va. 223; Boggs v. Willard,
70 Illinois, 315; Rees v. McDaniels, 131 Missouri, 681; Gage v.
Bailey, 119 Illinois, 539; Choteau v. Allen, 114 Missouri, 56;
Mackall v. Richards, 116 U. S. 47; Re Sandford Tool Co., 160
U. S. 255; Sibbald v. United States, 12 Pet. 488; Tex. &Pac.
Ry. v. Anderson, 149 U. S. 237.
The direction to allow further proof was specific and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
. Argument for the United States.

215 U. S.

court below varied that direction-and this can be corrected
by mandamus or appeal. United States v. Fossatt, 21 How.
445; Re Sandford Tool Co., 160 U. S. 255. The supplemental
bill was improperly so called; it was not, nor was its purpose,
related to the original bill but it set up independent cause of
action. This is not permissible. Accumulator Co. v. Electric
Co., 44 Fed. Rep. 602, 607; 2 Street's Fed. Eq. Prac., §§ 1170,
1171; 1 Foster's Fed. Prac., 4th ed., 631; Trust Co. v. Street
Railway, 74 Fed. Rep. 67; Putney v. Whitmire, 66 Fed. Rep.
385; Stafford v. Howlett, 1 Paige (N. Y.), 200; Vansile's Eq.
Plead., § 263; Milner v. Milner, 2 Edw. Ch. (N. Y.) 114;
Higginson v. C., B. & Q. R. R., 102 Fed. Rep. 197; Fletcher's
Eq. Plead. 892.
The supplemental bill must be germane to the original bill,
and if the original bill shows no ground for relief it cannot be
aided by a supplemental bill setting up matters that have
since arisen. Minnesota Co. v. St. Paul Co., 6 Wall. 742;
Story Eq. Plead., § 339; Hughes v. Carue, 135 Illinois, 519;
Maynard v. Green, 30 Fed. Rep. 643; Prouty v. Lake Shore
Ry., 85 N. Y. 275; Snead v. McCoull, 12 How. 407.
The notice was insufficient. Equity Rule 57, and cases
cited in Desty's Rules, 7th ed., p. 110.
The Solicitor General for the United States, appellee:
The trial court properly allowed complainant's supplemental bill to be filed. Nothing in the previous decisions of
this court was incompatible with the filing of the supplemental bill or with the subsequent proceedings upon it. Allowance of the filing of a supplemental bill is within the discretion of the trial court. Berliner Gramophone Co. v. Seaman,
113 Fed. Rep. 750, 754; Jacob v. Lorenz, 98 California, 332,
337; Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v. Bankers' & Merchants'
Telegraph Co., 109 N. Y. 342. And, in general, granting or
refusing leave to file a new plea, or to amend a pleading, is
discretionary and is not reviewable on appeal except for gross
abuse of discretion. Mandeville v. Wilson, 5 Cranch, 15, 17;

RIO GRANDE DAM &c. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 273
215 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Gormley v. Bunyan, 138 U. S. 623; Chapman v. Barney, 129
U. S. 677; Walden v. Craig, 9 Wheat. 576; Chirac v. Reinicker.,
11 Wheat. 280; Ex parte Bradstreet, 7 Pet. 634.
Notice of complainant's application for leave to file its supplemental bill was served upon the defendants' attorney;
and no evidence to the contrary is found in the record. But
the omission of notice would not be material error, because a
copy of the bill was at once served upon the attorney for defendants and they had full opportunity thereupon to move to
strike it off the file or demur. As defendants failed in any way
to attack the filing of the bill or to demur or plead in any way
to it within the time allowed by § 2685, New Mexico Code of
Civil Procedure, it was the duty of the trial court to take the
bill pro confesso and to enter the decree.
Notice of an application for leave to file a supplemental
bill is not in all cases necessary. It is a matter of discretion
with the court whether to require such notice. Eager v.
Price, 2 Paige Ch. 333, 335; Lawrence v. Bolton, 3 Paige, 294,
295; Barriclov. Trenton Mut. Life & FireIns. Co., 13 N. J. Eq.
154, 155; Winn & Ross v. Albert et al., 2 Md. Ch. 42; Taylor v.
Taylor, 1 Mac. & G. 397.
Whether or not a bill is not supplemental in character, is
waived by failure to demur, plead or object thereto within the
time allowed. The proper method of objecting on the ground
of want of supplemental matter is by demurrer. 2 Daniell Ch.
P1. & Pr., 6th Am. ed., p. 1535; Bowyer v. Bright, 13 Price, 316;
Stafford v. Howlett, 1 Paige Ch. 200.
The supplemental bill does not set up matter foreign to the
original case in alleging forfeiture of defendants' rights in
their dam and reservoir sites. Forfeiture could not be claimed
in the original bill because it was not true when the bill was
filed. It is certainly proper to add the claim of forfeiture to
the original bill when the cause of forfeiture occurred after the
suit was begun. Matter may be introduced by supplemental
bill which could have been added to the original bill if then
available. Winn & Ross v. Albert et al., 2 Md. Ch. 42, 48;
VOL. CCXV-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

Hardin v. Boyd, 113 U. S. 756. As to scope allowable to a
.supplemental bill, see Jones v. Jones, 3 Atk. 110; Eager v.
Price, 2 Paige, 333; Saunders v. Frost, 5 Pick. 275; Fisher v.
Holden, 84 Michigan, 494; Jacob v. Lorenz, 98 California, 332;
Hasbrouck v. Shuster, 4 Barb. 285; Candler v. Pettit, 1 Paige
Ch. 168; Winn & Ross v. Albert et al., 2 Md. Ch. 42; Mutter v.
Chauvel, 5 Russ. 42; Reeve v. North Carolina Land & Timber
Co., 141 Fed. Rep. 821; Jenkins v. Int. Nat. Bank, 127 U. S.
484.
The rule that a bad title set up in the original bill cannot be
aided by supplemental bill setting up a new and distinct title
obtains only when complainant's original title is wholly bad;
it does not prevent the assertion of a new title when it adds
to or supplements the first title, instead of contradicting it.
Winn & Ross v. Albert, supra. And see Jacques v. Hall, 3
Gray, 194, 197; Candler v. Pettit, 1 Paige, 168; Edgar v.
Clevenger, 3 N. J. Eq. 258; Lowry v. Harris,12 Minnesota, 255,
266; Reeve v. Timber Co., 141 Fed. Rep. 821, 834. There is no
inconsistency between the supplemental and original bills in
this case. The purpose of each was to restrain defendants'
construction and use of the proposed dam and reservoir.
Even if the supplemental bill had been improperly allowed
to be filed, it was right to deny defendants' motion to vacate
the allowance of the filing of the bill and the decree that had
been entered or to open defendants' default and permit them
to plead. Defendants' inaction and laches deprived them of
any claim to relief; their motion was~too late under the New
Mexico statute; the supplemental character of complainant's
bill was not questionable by motion but only by demurrer;
and the answer which defendants asked leave to interpose
failed itself to show any defense against default.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

We perceive no error in the judgment now under review.

RIO GRANDE DAM &c. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 275
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The main contention of the defendants is that it was error to
permit the United States to file its supplemental bill. We do
not accept this view of the trial court's duty. When the cause
was last here the court expressed the conviction that if the
case was finally disposed of on the record as it then was great
wrong might be done to the United States and to all interested
in preserving the navigability of the Rio Grande. Hence, the
cause was sent back that each side might adduce further evidence, if they had any to adduce. When the Government
asked to file its supplemental bill the suit was of course reinstated on the docket of the court of original jurisdiction for
such action as might be proper or necessary. The case having
been opened that further evidence might be produced, it was
certainly open for an amendment of the original pleadings or
for such additional pleadings as might be appropriate to the
issues between the parties. The parties were not limited to the
production merely of evidence. The defendants, in the discretion of the court, could have been allowed, upon a proper
showing and before taking further proof, to amend their pleadings, and equally the Government, before taking further proof,
could have been allowed to file a supplemental complaint.
Marine Ins. Co. v. Hodgson, 6 Cranch, 206, 218. Besides, subsection 87 of the New Mexico Civil Code would seem to be
broad enough to cover the question of power. It provides:
"A party may be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental
complaint, answer or reply, alleging facts material to the
cause, or praying for any other or different relief, order or
judgment." The facts set forth in the supplemental complaint were manifestly not foreign to the Government's original
cause of action. In every substantial sense those facts were
material. Strictly speaking, they may have constituted new
matter, but they did not present a new cause of action.
Jenkins v. InternationalBank of Chicago, 127 U. S. 484. They
grew out of and were connected with the same transaction
from which this litigation arose, and were germane to the object of the suit. That object was to restrain the defendants

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

from constructing and maintaining dams, reservoirs, canals or
ditches that would obstruct the navigable portion of the Rio
Grande River. If all the grounds of relief set out in the supplemental complaint did not exist when the original complaint
was filed, they were alleged to exist when the supplemental
complaint was tendered, and being connected with the
original cause of action it was right to bring them, in proper
form, to the attention of the court when determining whether
the Government was entitled to the relief it asked. So the
Supreme Court of the Territory held, and so we hold. There
was, plainly, no abuse of discretion or of the established rules
of practice in permitting the supplemental complaint to be
filed. The allowance of amendments of equity pleadings must
"at every stage of the cause, rest in the discretion of the court;
and that discretion must depend largely on the special circumstances of each case." Hardin v. Boyd, 113 U. S.756, 761.
Upon the question of the diligence or want of diligence of
the parties, it may be said that the supplemental complaint
was tendered at a time when the court was open; the leave to
file was given in open court; and the defendant's attorney was
served with a copy of that complaint on the very day it was
tendered and filed. On this part of the case the Supreme
Court of the Territory said that attorneys of record are presumed to be present during terms of the court in which their
causes are pending, and in contemplation of law were chargeable with notice of all proceedings transpiring in open court
in respect of such causes; also, that "under the facts of this
case, counsel are presumed to have been present, and to have
such notice as the law requires of matters transpiring in open
court on the day on which leave was granted to file the supplemental complaint, and the same was filed and served upon
them. Younge v. Broxson, 23 Alabama, 684; Sanders v. Savage, 63 S.D. 218. The court was vested with discretion by the
last clause of sec. 104, supra, [Code of Civil Procedure, as
amended by c. 11 of Laws of 1901] which does not seem to
have been abused, nor was there any abuse of the general dis-

RIO GRANDE DAM &c. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 277
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cretion to allow an amended or supplemental bill in equity
conferred upon the courts of the United States, as may be seen
by reference to the case of Berliner Gramophone Co. v. Seamon,
113 Fed. Rep. 750, in which it was held that, 'the granting of
leave to file an amended and supplemental bill is a matter
within the discretion of the court, and its action will not be
reviewed in an appellate court unless there has been a gross
abuse of this discretion.'"
The objection that the trial court erred in taking the supplemental complaint for confessed cannot be sustained. That
objection was thus properly disposed of by the Supreme
Court of the Territory: "There being no error or irregularity
in the court's order allowing the supplemental complaint to
be filed, the same having been done in open court, and a copy
of the same having been served upon one of the attorneys of
record on the same day on which it was filed, the statute required an answer or other proper pleading to be filed within
twenty days from the date of such filing, and in the event of
failure to plead, or secure additional time to plead, neither of
which were done in this case, it was perfectly regular for the
court to render decree. Gregory v. Pike, 29 Fed. Rep. 588.
Appellants seek to be relieved from their own default by alleging neglect on the part of their attorneys. . . . There
being service of a copy of the supplemental complaint upon
one of the attorneys of record on the day on which it was filed
it was entirely regular for the court to render the decree when
applied for 44 days after such service, in the absence of any
appearance or pleading by the appellants."
Some stress is laid on the fact that thie Government obtained an injunction to prevent the defendants from constructing its reservoir and dam. That fact, it is contended, estops
the Government from relying on the five-years' limitation
prescribed by the above act of March 3d, 1891, c. 561. But
this view is without merit. The preliminary injunction referred to was dissolved July 31st, 1897, and was never reinstated. The supplemental bill was taken as confessed on

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

May 21st, 1903, and a perpetual injunction was then awarded
against the defendants. So that between the dissolution of the
preliminary injunction and the granting of the perpetual injunction more than five years elapsed, during which the defendants were not impeded or hindered by any injunction
against them. This is sufficient to show that the point just
stated is without merit. We need not, therefore, consider
the larger question, whether the five-years' limitation prescribed by Congress in the above act of March 3d, 1891, could
have been disregarded or enlarged either by the action or nonaction of the parties or by any order of injunction made by
the court in the progress of the cause.
There are some minor questions in the case, but they are
not of substance and need not be noticed. We perceive no
error of law in the record, and the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

MCKENNA did not participate in the con-

sideration or determination of this case.

UNITED STATES v. CELESTINE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 235.

Argued October 14, 1909.-Decided December 13, 1909.

Although an Indian may be made a citizen of the United States

and of the State in which the reservation for his tribe is located,

the United States may still retain jurisdiction over him for offenses
committed within the limits of the reservation; and so held as to
a crime committed by an Indian against another Indian on the
Tulalip Indian Reservation in Washington, notwithstanding the

Indians had received allotments under the treaties with the Omahas
of March 16, 1834, and of Point Elliott of January 22, 1835.

Mat-

