EL PASO & N. E. RY. v. GUTIERREZ.
215 U. S.

Syllabus.

presume that it could not be because of the form of the deed in
the absence of words expressing or implying warranty, but
would be peculiar to this class of cases. We suppose that, in

the absence of a statute specially dealing with the matter,
either the title would be taken to relate back, or it would be
held that a permitted conveyance, before the Government has
given a legal title to any one, made by a person in process of
acquiring a title in the statutory method, would be taken to
have contemplated that the grantor should have the benefit
of what was done afterwards to perfect it. Those propositions
we are not called upon to discuss. See Landes v. Brant, 10
How. 348; United States v. Clark, 200 U. S. 601, 607; Rev.
Stat., § 2448.
Other matters were argued, as, for instance, whether parol
evidence should have been received to show that the first deed
was intended to be conditional, although absolute in form; the
effect of the second deed and the condition that it expressed,
the statute of limitations and so forth. But the only questions
open, on the most liberal interpretation, are those that we have
answered, and it follows without more that the judgment must
be affirmed.
Affirmed.

EL PASO & NORTHEASTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
GUTIERREZ, ADMINISTRATRIX.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 505.

Submitted October 11, 1909.-Decided November 15, 1909.

Where the effect of the judgment of the state court is to deny the defense that a statute of a Territory is a bar to the action, a claim of
Federal right is denied and this court has jurisdiction under § 709,
Rev. Stats., to review the judgment. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe
Ry. v. Sowers, 213 U. S. 55.
The power of Congress to regulate commerce in the District of Columbia and Territories is plenary and does not depend on the commerce

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

215 U. S.

clause, and a statute regulating such commerce necessarily supersedes a territorial statute on the same subject.
An act of Congress may be unconstitutional as measured by the commerce clause, and constitutional as measured by the power to govern
the District of Columbia and the Territories, and the test of separability is whether Congress would have enacted the legislation exclusively for the District and the Territories.
The rule that the court must sustain an act of Congress as constitutional
unless there is no doubt as to its unconstitutionality also requires the
court to sustain the act in so far as it is possible to sustain it.
This court did not in its decision of the Employers' Liability Cases, 207
U. S. 463, hold the act of June 11, 1906, c. 3073, 34 Stat. 232, unconstitutional so far as it related to the District of Columbia and the
Territories, and expressly refused to interpret the act as applying
only to such employ6s of carriers in the District and Territories as
were engaged in interstate commerce.
The evident intent of Congress in enacting the Employers' Liability
Act of June 11, 1906, was to enact the curative provisions of the law
as applicable to the District of Columbia and the Territories under
its plenary power irrespective of the interstate commerce feature
of the act, and although unconstitutional as to the latter as held in
207 U. S. 463, it is constitutional and paramount as to commerce
wholly in the District and Territories.
The Employers' Liability Act of June 11, 1906, being a constitutional
regulation of commerce in the District of Columbia and the Territories necessarily supersedes prior territorial legislation on the same
subject and non-compliance by the plaintiff employ6 with a provision of a territorial statute (in this case of New Mexico) cannot be
pleaded by the defendant employer as a bar to an action for personal
injuries.
117 S. W. 426, affirmed, and Hyde v. Southern Ry. Co., 31 App. D. C.
approved.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of the Employers' Liability Law of June 11, 1906, c. 3073, 34 Stat. 232,
as applied to the Territories of the United States, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. W. C. Keegin, Mr. W. A. Hawkins and Mr. John
Franklinfor plaintiff in error:
This court has jurisdiction to review the judgment of the

EL PASO & N. E. RY. v. GUTIERREZ.
215 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

state court of Texas; the plaintiff in error as defendant below
asserted the unconstitutionality of the Employers' Liability
Act and that this case was controlled by the statute of New
Mexico. The denial of this claim was the denial of a Federal
right. St. Louis &c. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 293;
Ill. Cent. R. R. Co. v. McKendree, 203 U. S. 514. The statute
of New Mexico has been upheld in this court. A., T. &
Santa Fe Ry. v. Sowers, 213 U. S. 55. The Employers' Liability Act is void in toto. The decision of this court in 207
U. S. 463, forecloses that question. The statute is not separable as nothing shows that Congress would have enacted it
exclusively as to the Territories. Sprague v. Thompson, 118
U. S. 90.
Mr. F. G. Morris for defendant in error:
This court does not have jurisdiction of the appeal. The
New Mexico statute did not create a right of action.but only
improved conditions. Klinger v. Missouri, 13 Wall. 257;
Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361; Beaupr6 v. Noyes, 138 U. S.
397.
The decision that the act of Congress and not the territorial
statute controlled the case does not deny full faith and credit
to the territorial statute. United States v. Lynch, 137 U. S.
280; Balto. & Pot. R. R. Co. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210; Johnson v. New York Life Ins. Co., 187 U. S. 491; Smithsonian
Institution v. St. John, 214 U. S. 19.
No Federal right exists under a territorial statute in a state
court which will support a writ of error from this court other
than that provided for by the statute requiring it to be given
full faith and credit. A., T. & Santa Fe Ry. v. Sowers, 213
U. S. 55.
. The Employers' Liability Act is within the power of Congress to enact so far as applicable to the District of Columbia
and the Territories, and that question is not affected by the
decision of this court in 207 U. S. 463, which related only to
the act as applicable to the States. The provisions as to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

District of Columbia and the Territories are separable from
those as to the States and would have been independently
enacted by Congress. Hyde v. Southern Ry. Co., 31 App. D. C.
466; Vial v. Penniman, 103 U. S. 714; Diamond Glue Co. v.
United States Glue Co., 187 U. S. 611; Florida Cent. R. R. Co.
v. Schutte, 103 U. S. 118.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case an action was commenced by Enedina Gutierrez,
as administratrix of the estate of Antonio Gutierrez, in the
District Court of El Paso County, Texas, against the El Paso
and Northeastern Railway Company, to recover damages
because of the death of the plaintiff's intestate by wrongful
act while engaged in the service of the railway company, a
common carrier in the Territory of New Mexico, on June 22,
1906. By way of special plea and answer the railway company set up a statute of the Territory of New Mexico, wherein
it is provided that no actions for injuries inflicting death
caused by any person or corporation in the Territory shall
be maintained, unless the person claiming damages shall,
within ninety days after the infliction of the injury complained
of and thirty days before commencing suit, serve upon the
defendant an affidavit covering certain particulars as to the
injuries complained of, and containing the names and addresses of all witnesses of the happening of the alleged acts
of negligence. Suit must be brought within one year, and in
the District Court of the Territory in and for the county in
which the injuries were received, or where the injured person
resides; or, in a claim against a corporation, in the county of
the Territory where the corporation has its principal place
of business. This act is set out in full in the marginal note to
the case of Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Sowers,
213 U. S. 55.
The special answer sets forth that the accident happened
in the Territory of New Mexico, while the statute was in full
force, and that its terms and provisions were not complied with.

EL PASO & N. E. RY. v. GUTIERREZ.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

To the special answer the plaintiff below interposed a demurrer, and further, by way of supplemental petition, set
forth that the injuries complained of happened after the passage of the so-called Employers' Liability Act, June 11, 1906,
c. 3073, 34 Stat. 232. This act, the plaintiff alleged, controlled the liability of the defendant in the case. The District
Court sustained the demurrer of the plaintiff to that part of
the defendant's answer which set up the territorial act of
New Mexico, to which ruling the railway company duly excepted. The case then went to trial to a jury upon issues
made concerning the liability of the railway company under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act of June 11, 1906.
34 Stat. 232. The result was a verdict and judgment in favor
of the plaintiff against the railway company. The case was
then taken to the Court of Civil Appeals of Texas, and that
court held that it would not be governed by the territorial
statutes, and that the Employers' Liability Act of June 11,
1906, was unconstitutional, upon the authority of Employers'
Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, and certain cases in the Texas
Court of Appeals. Upon rehearing a majority of the court
held that the provisions of the New Mexico act as to the
presentation of notice of claim for damages was a condition
precedent to a cause of action, and that the trial court therefore erred in sustaining plaintiff's exception to that part of
the defendant's answer which pleaded the territorial act and
plaintiff's failure to present her claim in accordance with it.
111 S. W. Rep. 159. Thereupon the defendant took the case
to the Supreme Court of Texas by writ of error, and that codrt
held that the case was controlled by the act of Congress known
as the Employers' Liability Act, 34 Stat. 232, and that the
same was constitutional, and therefore held that the judgment
of the Court of Civil Appeals should be reversed, and the
original judgment of the District Court affirmed. 117 S. W.
Rep. 426. From the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
State a writ of error was prosecuted to this court.
Among other errors assigned is the failure of the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opiinionl of the Court,.

215 U. S.

Court of Texas to give -effect to the defense setting up the
statute of New Mexico as a full defense to the action. While
the Supreme Court of Texas in its opinion conceded that if
the territorial act of New Mexico alone controlled the action
the plaintiff must fail for non-complianice with its requirements, it reversed the judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals,
and affirmed the judgment of the District Court, because in
its opinion the liability was controlled by the Employers'.
Liability Act. The effect of this judgment, of the Supreme
Court of Texas was to deny the defense set up under the
territorial act as a complete bar to the action. The District
Court sustained the demurrer to the plea setting up this act,
and thereby denied the rights specially set up under that
statute, the Supreme Court of Texas overruled the Court of
Civil Appeals and affirmed the judgment of the District Court.
It thereby necessarily adjudicated the defense claimed under
the territorial act against the railway company. If this defense sets up a Federal right within the meaning of § 709 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States, then we have
jurisdiction of the case. Wabash R. R. Co. v. Adelbert College
of Western Reserve University, 208 U. S. 38, 44.
That the claim of immunity under the territorial act, because of the failure of the plaintiff in error to comply with its
provisions as to the affidavit within ninety days, etc., presented a Federal question within the meaning of § 709 of the
Revised Statutes, was decided in Atchison, Topeka & Santa
f e Ry. Co. v. Sowers, 213 U. S. 55, in which ease it was
held that where suit was brought in a state court a claim
of defense under the provisions of the New Mexico statute
was a claim of Federal right, which, when adversely adjudicated, gave jurisdiction to this court to review the judgment.
Coming to consider the merits: This court, in Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Sowers, 213 U. S., supra, held
that in order to give due faith and credit to the territorial
statute, under §906 of the Revised Statutes of the United

EL PASO & N. E. RY. v. GUTIERREZ.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States, the plaintiff suing in a State must show compliance
with the preliminaries of notice and demand as required by
the territorial law. As the answer in the present case set up
non-compliance with these requisites, and the state court
sustained a demurrer thereto, the judgment must be reversed,
unless the state court was right in denying the benefit of the
territorial act thus set up, because the Federal Employers'
'Liability Act superseded the New Mexico law, and is constitutional so far as the Territories are concerned.
In view of the plenary power of Congress under the Constitution over the Territories of the United States, subject only
to certain limitations and prohibitions not necessary to notice now, there can be no doubt that an act of Congress
undertaking to regulate commerce in the District of Columbia
and the Territories of the United States would necessarily
supersede the territorial law regulating the same subject.
Is the Federal Employers' Liability Act of June 11, 1906,
unconstitutional so far as it relates to common carriers engaged in trade or commerce in the Territories of the United
States? It has been suggested that this question is foreclosed
by a decision of this court in the Employers' Liability Cases,
207 U. S. 463. In that case this court held that, conceding the power of Congress to regulate the relations of
employer and employ6 engaged in interstate commerce, the
act of June 11, 1906, c. 3073, 34 Stat. 232, was unconstitutional in this, that in its provisions regulating interstate
commerce Congress exceeded its constitutional authority in
undertaking to make employers responsible, not only to employ~s when engaged in interstate commerce, but to any of
its employ6s, whether engaged in interstate commerce or in
commerce wholly within a State. That the unconstitutionality of the act, so far as it relates to the District of Columbia
and the Territories, was not determined is evident from a
consideration of the opinion of the court in the case. In
answering the suggestion that the words "any employS" in
the statute should be so read as to mean only employds en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

gaged in interstate commerce, Mr. Justice White, delivering
the opinion of the court, said:
"But this would require us to write into the statute words
of limitation and restriction not found in it. But if we could
bring ourselves to modify the statute by writing in the words
suggested the result would be to restrict the operation of the
act as to the District of Columbia and the Territories. We
say this because immediately preceding the provision of the
act concerning carriers engaged in commerce between the
States and Territories is a clause making it applicable to
'every common carrier engaged in trade or commerce in the
District of Columbia or in any Territory of the United States.'
It follows, therefore, that common carriers in such Territories,
even although not engaged in interstate commerce, are by the
act made liable to 'any' of their employ6s, as therein defined.
The legislative power of Congress over the District of Columbia
and the Territories being plenary and not depending upon
the interstate commerce clause, it results that the provision
as to the District of Columbia and the Territories, if standing
alone, could not be questioned. Thus it would come to pass,
if we could bring ourselves to modify the statute by writing
in the words suggested; that is, by causing the act to read
' any employ6 when engaged in interstate commerce,' we would
restrict the act as to the District of Columbia and the Territories, and thus destroy it in an important particular. To
write into the act the qualifying words, therefore, would be
but adding to its provisions in order to save it in one aspect,
and thereby to destroy it in another; that is, to destroy in
order to save and to save in order to destroy." 207 U. S.
500.
A perusal of this portion of the opinion makes it evident
that it was not intended to hold the act unconstitutional in
so far as it related to the District of Columbia and the Territories, for it is there suggested that to interpolate in the act
the qualifying words contended for would destroy the act in
respect to the District of Columbia and the Territories by

EL PASO & N. E. RY. v. GUTIERREZ.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

limiting its operation in a field where Congress had plenary
power, and did not depend for its authority upon the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution. The act in question is set forth in full in a note to Employers' Liability Cases,
207 U. S. 463, 490. We are concerned in the present case
with its first section only. This section reads:
"That every common carrier engaged in trade or commerce
in the District of Columbia, or in any Territory of the United
States, or between the several States, or between any Territory and another, or between any Territory or Territories
and any State or States, or the District of Columbia, or with
foreign nations, or between the District of Columbia and any
State or States or foreign nations, shall be liable to any of its
employs, or, in the case of his death, to his personal representative for the benefit of his widow and children, if any; if
none, then for his parents; if none, then for his next of kin
dependent upon him, for all damages which may result from
the negligence of any of its officers, agents or employ~s, or by
reason of any defect or any insufficiency due to its negligence
in its cars, engines, appliances, machinery, track, roadbed,
ways or works."
A perusal of the section makes it evident that Congress is
here dealing, first, with trade or commerce in the District of
Columbia and the Territories; and, second, with interstate
commerce, commerce with foreign nations, and between the
Territories and the States. As we have already indicated, its
power to deal with trade or commerce in the District of Columbia and the Territories does not depend upon the authority of
the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution. Upon
the other hand, the regulation sought to be enacted as to
commerce between the States and with foreign nations depends upon the authority of Congress granted to it by the
Constitution to regulate commerce among the States and
with foreign nations. As to the latter class, Congress was
dealing with a liability ordinarily governed by state statutes,
or controlled by the common law as administered in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion 6f the Court.

215 U. S.

several States. The Federal power of regulation within the
States is limited to the right of Congress to control transactions of interstate commerce; it has no authority to regulate
commerce wholly of a domestic character. It was because
Congress had exceeded its authority in attempting to regulate the second class of commerce named in the statute that
this court was constrained to hold the act unconstitutional.
The act undertook to fix the liability as to "any employ6,"
whether engaged in interstate commerce or not, and, in the
terms of the act, had so interwoven and blended the regulation of liability within the authority of Congress with that
which was not that the whole act was held invalid in this
respect.
It is hardly necessary to repeat what this court has often
affirmed, that an act of Congress is not to be declared invalid
except for reasons so clear and satisfactory as to leave no
doubt of its unconstitutionality. Futhermore, it is the duty
of the court, where it can do so without doing violence to the
terms of an act, to construe it so as to maintain its constitutionality; and, whenever an act of Congress contains unobjectionable provisions separable from those found to be
unconstitutional, it is the duty of this court to so declare,
and to maintain the act in so far as it is valid. It was held
in the Employers' Liability Cases that in order to sustain the
act it would be necessary to write into its provisions words
which it did not contain.
Coming to consider the statute in the light of the accepted
rules of construction, we are of opinion that the provisions
with reference to interstate commerce, which were declared
unconstitutional for the reasons stated, are entirely separable
from and in nowise dependent upon the provisions of the act
regulating commerce within the District of Columbia and the
Territories. Certainly these provisions could stand in separate acts, and the right to regulate one class of liability in
nowise depends upon the other. 'Congress might have regulated the subject by laws applying alone to the Territories,

EL PASO & N. E. RY. v. GUTIERREZ.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and left to the various States the regulation of the subjectmatter within their borders, as had been the practice for
many years.
It remains to inquire whether it is plain that Congress
would have enacted the legislation had the act been limited
to the regulation of the liability to employ~s engaged in
commerce within the District of Columbia and the Territories.
If we are satisfied that it would not, or that the matter is
in such doubt that we are unable to say what Congress
would have done omitting the unconstitutional feature, then
the statute must fall. Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. McKendree, 203 U. S. 514; Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S.
supra.
When we consider the purpose of Congress to regulate the
liability of employer to employ6, and its evident intention
to change certain rules of the common law which theretofore
prevailed as to the responsibility for negligence in the conduct of the business of transportation, we think that it is
apparent that had Congress not undertaken to deal with
this relation in the States where it had been regulated by local
law, it would have dealt with the subject and enacted the
curative provisions of the law applicable to the District of
Columbia and the Territories over which its plenary power
gave it the undoubted right to pass a controlling law, and to
make uniform regulations governing the subject.
Bearing in mind the reluctance with which this court interferes with the action of a coirdinate branch of the Government, and its duty, no less than its disposition, to sustain
the enactments of the national legislature, except in clear
cases of invalidity, we reach the conclusion that in the aspect'
of the act now under consideration the Congress proceeded
within its constitutional power, and with the intention to
regulate the matter in the District and Territories, irrespective of the interstate commerce feature of the act.
While not binding as authority in this court, we may note
that the act, so far as it relates to the District of Columbia,
vo.i
a

ccxv-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

was sustained in a well-considered opinion by the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia. Hyde v. Southern Ry.
Co., 31 App. D. C. 466.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Texas is
Affirmed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. STICKNEY
AND OTHERS, RECEIVERS OF THE CHICAGO GREAT
WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITEI)

STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 251.

Argued October 12, 1909.-Decided November 29, 1909.

A carrier may charge and receive compensation for services that it may
render, or procure to be rendered, off its own line, or outside of the
mere transportation thereover.
Where the terminal charge is reasonable it cannot be condemned, or the
carrier charging it required to change it because prior charges of
connecting carriers make the total rate unreasonable.
In determining whether the charge of a terminal company is or is not
reasonable the fact that connecting carriers own the stock of the
terminal company is immaterial, nor does that fact make the lines
of the terminal company part of the lines or property of such connecting carriers.

The inquiry authorized by § 15 of the Hepburn Act of June 29, 1906,
c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, relates to all charges made by the carrier; and,
on such an inquiry, the carrier is entitled to have a finding that a
particular charge is unreasonable before he is required to change it.
Where the charge of a terminal company is in itself reasonable the
wrong of a shipper by excessive aggregate charges should be corrected by proceedings against the connecting carrier guilty of the
wrong.
The convenience of the commission or the court is not the measure of
justice, and will not justify striking down a terminal charge when
the real overcharge is the fault of a prior carrier.
164 Fed. Rep. 638, affirmed.

