- OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

charge, but the convenience of commission or court is not the

measure of justice.
We are unable to find any error in the conclusions of the trial
judges, and their order is, therefore,
Affirmed.

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK OF NEW YORK v. SUDDATH, RECEIVER OF AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK
OF ABILENE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 12.

Argued April 20, 1909.-Decided November 29, 1909.

When a bank refuses to do the particular thing requested with securities delivered to it for that purpose only, it is its duty to return the
securities and no general lien in its favor attaches to them.
The fact that a bank has in its possession securities which were sent to it
for a particular purpose and which it is its duty to return to the
sender, does not justify its retaining them for any other purpose
under a banker's agreement giving it a general lien on all securities deposited by the sender.
A banker's agreement giving a general lien on securities deposited by
its correspondent will not be construed so as to give it a broad meaning beyond its evident scope and in conflict with the precepts of
duty, good faith and confidence necessary for commercial transactions; nor will a printed form prepared by the banker be so extended
by the construction of any ambiguous language.
In this case it was held that the retention by a bank of securities for a
purpose different from that for which they were sent by its correspondent could not be predicated on the consent of the latter, and
that inaction of the correspondent could not be construed as consent.
149 Fed. Rep. 127, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK v. SUDDATH.
215 U. S.

11

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. Percy S. Dudley for plaintiff in error:
Plaintiff in error had the .right to retain the notes under
the express terms of the collateral agreement. Auten v.
Bank, 174 U. S. 125, 145; Hiscock v. Varick Bank, 206 U. S.
28, and cases cited. As to scope of words "or otherwise" see
Farr v. Nichols, 132 N. Y. 327. As bailee of the notes the
Hanover Bank had a lien on them. Benjamin on Sales, ยง 2,
Am. note. As to construction of the agreement, see Gillet v.
Bank, 160 N. Y. 549; Sattler v. Hallock, 160 N. Y. 291, 297;
Church v. Hubbart, 2 Cranch, 233; Hutchinson v. Manhattan
Co., 150 N. Y. 250; 21 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law, 2d ed., 1016.
Plaintiff in error had the right to retain the notes by virtue of
its bankers' lien. 1 Daniel's Neg. Inst., 5th ed., 342; 1 Morse
on Banks, 4th ed., ยง 324; Reynes v. Dumont, 130 U. S. 354,
390; Biebinger v. Continental Bank, 99 U. S. 143; Bank of
Montreal v. White, 154 U. S. 660; Petrie v. Myers, 54 How.
Pr. 513, distinguished, and see Armstrong v. Chemical Bank,
41 Fed. Rep. 234; Continental Bank v. Weems, 60 Texas,
489.
The receiver of the Abilene Bank took the assets subject
to the claim of the Hanover Bank and obligation existing
when he took possession. Scott v. Armstrong, 146 U. S. 499;
Rankin v. City Nat. Bank, 208 U. S. 541.
The Hanover Bank had the consent of the Abilene Bank to
retain the notes. Mailing the letters was a delivery and had
the Abilene Bank mailed cash it would have been subject to
lien of Hanover Bank although. not delivered until after the
failure; it is so also as to these notes. McDonald v. Chemical
Nat. Bank, 174 U. S. 610; Ruggles v. Am. Cent. Ins. Co., 114
N. Y. 415.
Mr. Edward B. Whitney, with whom Mr. Francis F. Oldham was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The Hanover Bank had no general lien on the notes involved. Brandao v. Barnett, 12 Cl. & Fin. 787; Story on
Agency, ยง 381; 1 Morse on Banks, 4th ed., 597; Bank of Met.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

v. N. E. Bank, 1 How. 234, 239; Leese v. Martin, L. R. 17
Eq. 224, '235; Reynes v. Dumont, 130 U. S. 354. These and
other cases all hold that where securities are sent for a specific
purpose the recipient cannot hold them for any other purpose
but must return them. 1 Jones on Liens, 2d ed., 244; Lucas
v. Dorrien, 7 Taunt. 278; Petrie v. Myers, 54 How. Pr. 513;
Bank of Montreal v. White, 154 U. S. 660. The bank becomes
a trustee to apply the securities as directed by the sender.
Libby v. Hopkins, 104 U. S. 309.
The Hanover Bank had no lien on the notes under the
agreement and there was no other agreement or consent under which that bank could hold them. There was no proposal
or acceptance as to the collateral loan and payment of overdraft. 9 Cyc. 293; Meyrell v. Surtees, 25 L. J. Ch. 257, 262;
Scott v. Armstrong, 146 U. S. 511.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The predecessor of the present receiver of the American
National Bank of Abilene, Texas, sued, in April, 1905, to recover from the Hanover National Bank of New York four
promissory notes or their value.
We shall refer to the corporations as the Abilene Bank and
the Hanover Bank.
At the trial, under instruction, there was verdict for the
Hanover Bank, and the judgment thereon was reversed.
Van Zandt v. Hanover Nat. Bank, 149 Fed. Rep. 127. In
conformity to the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals, on
the new trial a verdict was directed in favor of the receiver,
and to reverse the affirmance of that judgment (Hanover Nat.
Bank v. Suddath, 153 Fed. Rep. 1021) this writ of error is
prosecuted.
The facts are these: Prior to November, 1903, the Abilene
Bank was a correspondent of the Hanover Bank, and had an
account with the latter. The credit of this account was principally made up by the proceeds arising from the rediscount-

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK v. SUDDATH.
215 U. S.

113

Opinion of the Court.

ing by the Hanover Bank of commercial paper for account of
the Abilene Bank. On November 27, 1903, the Abilene Bank
signed an agreement concerning the right of the Hanover
Bank, under conditions stated, to attribute to the payment
of debts due it by the Abilene Bank securities- in its hands
belonging to the Abilene Bank. In January, 1905, the Hanover Bank was contingently responsible for commercial paper,
aggregating probably sixteen or seventeen thousand dollars,
which it had rediscounted for the Abilene Bank, and upon
which the latter bank was ultimately liable.
On January 9, 1905, the Abilene Bank transmitted by mail
to the Hanover Bank a note of the Hayden Grocery Company
for $2,000, drawn to the order of the Abilene Bank and by it
indorsed, the letter stating that the note was sent for discount
and credit. On the next day-the tenth-the Abilene Bank
also transmitted by mail a note drawn by R. H. Logan and
W. R. Logan to its order, and by it indorsed likewise, with a
statement that it was sent for discount and credit. On the
twelfth of the same month the Abilene Bank again transmitted
to the Hanover Bank for discount and credit two other notes,
one drawn by L. W. Hollis for $3,500, and indorsed, as were
the previous notes and a note of C. B. and W. F. Scarborough,
for $1,500 likewise so indorsed, the letter of transmittal yet
again stating that they were sent for discount and credit.
The Hayden GroCery Company and the Logan notes, forwarded on the ninth and tenth of January, reached the Han-over Bank on the fourteenth; and on that day it telegraphed
to the Abilene Bank, declining to discount the notes, and by
a second telegram said: "Referring to previous dispatch
transfer or ship currency," which, according to the counsel
for the Hanover Bank, meant to call upon the Abilene Bank
either to transfer a credit from some other bank or ship currency direct. It is not shown that any reply, either by telegram or letter, was made to the messages thus sent on the
fourteenth. The notes forwarded on the twelfth reached the
Hanover Bank on the sixteenth, and the latter at once teleVOL. CCXV-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
' Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

graphed, "Not satisfactory," and confirmed the telegram by
a letter, saying: "We are not discounting inclosures for you,
but hold same as collateral to your indebtedness to us." The
Abilene Bank did not reply by telegram but on the same day
wrote to the Hanover Bank as follows:
"We have just received your wire. The rediscounts we
sent you were mostly renewals and in every instance 'good
as gold.'
"Since the drop in cotton, collections are at a standstill,
and our clients expect us to stay with them, and we are
obliged to ask the same indulgence from our correspondents.
"Should you prefer, we will send our B/P with collaterals
attached.
"We trust you will accord us the leniency asked for."
On the morning of January 17, 1905, there stood on the
books of the Hanover Bank to the credit of the Abilene Bank
the sum of $616.15. On that day a check on the Hanover
Bank, dated January 11, 1905, drawn by the Abilene Bank
for the sum of $3,825.45, payable to the New York Life Insurance Company, as also some small checks, passed through
the clearing house. Upon attention being directed to the
overdraft which thereby resulted a telegram was sent to the
Abilene Bank, referring to the previous letters and telegrams,
and asking that bank what it had done. No reply having
been received before the close of business on that day, the
vice-president of the Hanover Bank, after examining the
written agreement to which we have previously alluded, allowed the overdraft to stand, and to cover the same made
an entry of a loan of $3,500 to the Abilene Bank, which was
placed to the credit of that bank, and after absorbing the
overdraft, left to its credit the sum of $63.74. On the same
day the Hanover Bank wrote to the Abilene Bank, saying:
"As your account showed overdrawn to-day over $3,000,
have made you a temporary loan of $3,500 against collateral
in our hands." On the next day (January 18) the Abilene'
Bank closed its doors.

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK v. SUDDATH.
215 U. S.

115

Opinion of the Court.

It is to be observed that of the letters, the one by the Hanover Bank, written on the seventeenth of January, and the
one written on the previous day by the Abilene Bank, did not
reach their destination until after the failure of the Abilene
Bank.
Thereafter Richard L. Van Zandt was appointed receiver,
and, as we have said, commenced this action to recover the
possession of the four notes which had been transmitted to
the Hanover Bank as above stated, or the value of such notes,
and in the course of the action the proceedings took place to
which we have at the outset referred. The ground relied upon
for recovery was that as the notes had been sent to the Hanover Bank for discount for the account of the Abilene Bank,
upon the Hanover Bank refusing to discount them that bank
had no claim whatever upon the notes, and had no right to
apply them as collateral to the payment of the voluntary
6verdraft which had been allowed on the seventeenth of January, and thus obtain a preference to the extent of the appropriation over the general creditors of the Abilene Bank.
It suffices to say that the defense of the Hanover Bank controverted this contention, and asserted that the appropriation
of the notes was justified under its general bankers' lien or
under the terms of the special agreement of November 27,
1903. During the pendency of the action the Hanover Bank
collected three of the notes, deducted from their proceeds the
sum of $3,725.86 then due, and paid to the receiver the balance and also delivered to him the uncollected note, being the
note of R. H. Logan and W. R. Logan, which had been transmitted to the Hanover Bank on January 10 and was by it
received on the fourteenth.
It is contended that the appellate court erred in affirming
the ruling of the Circuit Court, directing a verdict for the receiver. The grounds for this contention are that the evidence
showed that the Hanover Bank had the right to retain the
four notes or the balance of their proceeds, by virtue of its
general bankers' lien; and, if not, as a result of the express

OCTOBEI

TEMI,

1909.

Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

provisions of the agreement of November 27, 1903; and, in
any event, by the authority or consent of the Abilene Bank.
Without stopping to consider whether the third contention is
not really involved in the first two, we pass to their consideration in the order mentioned.
1. Was there a right of retention in the New York bank by
virtue of its general bankers' lien?
The rulings of this court foreclose this question, since they
conclusively establish that a general lien in favor of a bank
cannot attach to securities which are delivered to it in order
that it may do a particular thing with them, and that when it
refuses to do that thing the duty to return exists. The gent
eral subject was elaborately considered and the authorities
were fully reviewed in Reynes v. Dumont, 130 U. S. 354. In
that case securities had been sent to bankers for a specific
purpose. That purpose having been accomplished, the securities were permitted to remain in the custody of the bankers
as depositaries, because they were in a good market and
a place convenient for procuring loans, and because the expressage upon their return would have been great. The right
to a general bankers' lien upon the securities was denied.
Such a lien, it was said (on p. 390), would arise "in favor of a
bank or banker out of contract expressed, or implied from the
usage of the business, in the absence of anything to show a
contrary intention." Ordinarily, it was declared (p. 391)
the lien would attach in favor of a bank upon securities and
moneys of the customer deposited in the usual course of business, etc. It was, however, expressly declared not to "arise
upon securities accidentally in the possession of the bank, or
not in its possession in the course of its business as such, nor
where the securities are in its hands under circumstances, or
where there is a particu1ar' mode of dealing, inconsistent with

such general lien." Biebinger v. Continental Bank, 99 U. S.
143, was one of the authorities cited in the opinion. In that
case it appeared a deed had been deposited with the bank as
collateral security for the customer's current indebtedness

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK v. SUDDATH.
215 U. S.

117

Opinion of the Court.

and discounts. After payment of this indebtedness and a
temporary suspension of dealings, the customer incurred new
indebtedness to the bank, but as it did not appear that the
money was loaned or debt created on the faith of the deposit
of the deed, the bank's claim of a lien thereon was denied.
Bank of Montreal v. White, 154 U. S. 660, is also a pertinent
decision. Without elaborating the issues which were there
involved, it suffices to say that in an action to recover upon
a promissory note, in order to escape the contention that it
was not an innocent holder the bank contended that before
the note. was sent to it for discount the sender was under a
promise to furnish security for advances to be made, and
therefore the rights of the bank as an innocent holder were to
be determined by the state of its knowledge at the time the
note was received, although the discount was declined, and
not by the state of knowledge existing when at a subsequent
date the note was actually discounted. In disposing of a
contention that the trial court had committed error in not
giving an instruction which the bank asked in accord with its
contention as just stated, the court said:
"There can be no pretense in this ease that the note in suit
was ever actually delivered to the bank as collateral security
for past or future indebtedness. In the letter transmitting
it, the bank manager was asked to discount it and place the
proceeds to the credit of the manufacturing company. In
that event, the 'overdraft kindly allowed on Friday,' was
to be charged against the credit, but it is nowhere, even in
the remotest degree, intimated that if the discount was declined the note might be kept as collateral. The charge asked
and refused was, therefore, wholly immaterial, and the judg-.
ment cannot be reversed because it was not given."
2. Was the Hanover Bank entitled to retain the notes under
the terms of the agreement of November 27, 1903?
The material portions of the agreement are as follows:
"For and in consideration of one dollar [&c.], the undersigned agree with said bank that all bills of exchange, notes,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

checks, and the proceeds thereof, and all other securities,
money and property of every kind owned by the undersigned,
or either or any of them, or in which they, or any or either of
them, have any interest deposited with said bank, or which
may hereafter be deposited with said bank, or which may be
in any wise in said bank, or under its control, as collateral
security for loans or advances already made or hereafter to
be made to or for account of the undersigned, by said bank,
or otherwise, may be held, collected and retained by said
bank until all liabilities, present or future, of the undersigned,
or any or either of them, due or not due of every kind to said
bank, now or hereafter contracted, shall be paid and fully
satisfied."
For the Hanover Bank it is contended that although the
notes were not in its possession as collateral security for any
debt due it, nevertheless, as it had the physical possession of
the notes and they were not unlawfully in its hands, it had
under the agreement the power to make the advance to cover
the overdraft and to attribute, without the consent of the
Abilene Bank, the notes in question as collateral security for
the loan which was made. The construction upon which this
proposition is rested gives to the agreement the most latitudinarian meaning, and besides, in effect, depends upon considering one or more clauses separately from their context,
thereby affixing to them a significance to which they would
not be entitled if considered in connection with the text in
which they are found. To illustrate: It is said the words
which give the power to the Hanover Bank to appropriate
any securities "deposited with said bank, or which may hereafter be deposited with said bank, or which may be in any
wise in said bank, or under its control," are broad enough to
embrace securities in the hands of the Hanover Bank, without
considering how they came into the possession of that bank
or without taking into account whether that bank had any
claim whatever aside from the agreement in question, and

without considering whether it was under the plain duty to

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK v. SUDDATH.
215 U. S.

119

Opinion of the Court.

return the securities upon demand, and had no right to require the performance of any act or duty by the Abilene Bank
in respect thereto. But this broad interpretation is, we think,
unreasonable, since it cannot be assumed, if there be room for
implication to the contrary, that the agreement was intended
to confer the right upon the Hanover Bank to appropriate
securities merely because such securities had come into its
physical control and with the obligation to return on demand.
We say this, because it is manifest that to attribute the broad
meaning claimed would be in conflict with the precepts of
duty and good faith, and would be destructive of that confidence and fair dealing so essentially necessary in commercial
transactions. In the light of these considerations we think
the language relied upon should not receive the all-embracing
meaning sought to be attributed to it, but should be limited
so as to cause the same to embrace only property deposited
with the Hanover Bank, "or which may hereafter be deposited
with said bank, or which may be in any wise in said bank, or
under its control," under circumstances and conditions which
gave to that bank by operation of law or otherwise some
right to retain such property for a particular purpose. And
irrespective of the meaning which we attribute to the language relied upon, when independently considered, we are
of opinion that the want of merit in the construction given
to the agreement by the Hanover Bank is clearly demonstrated when the context is brought into view. That is to
say, we consider that the provision of the agreement to which
we have just referred is qualified by the language which follows it, viz., "as collateral security for loans or advances
already made or hereafter to be made to or for account of the
undersigned, by said bank, or otherwise." In other words,
the provision just quoted, we think, must be considered as
limitative in its character and as controlling, therefore, the
previous stipulations, thus confining the right to apply securities in the possession of the Hanover Bank to such as
had come into its possession or control for the purposes de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

scribed. The contention that the words "or otherwise" deprive the provision in question of its limitative effect is, we
think, clearly without merit, since that view cannot be upheld without causing the words in question to dominate and
destroy the meaning of the agreement as derived from a consideration of all its provisions. Particularly is this the case,
as those words are susceptible of a meaning in harmony with
the context; that is to say, may be held to give the right to
retain securities under the circumstances stated, even although the loan may not have been made directly to the Abilene Bank, as, for instance, where the securities belonging
to the Abilene Bank came into the possession of the Hanover
Bank as the result of a rediscounting of paper of the Abilene
Bank. Conclusive as we think are the reasons just stated,
they are additionally fortified by the considerations which
the lower court so cogently pointed out in the opinion by it
announced, that is, that the contract was one prepared by
the Hanover Bank and embodied in a printed form in general
use by that bank, and therefore should have expressed its
purpose beyond doubt and not ambiguously if the language
in question was intended to convey the far-reaching meaning
now sought to be attributed to it.
3. Was there otherwise a right of retention by the authority or
consent of the Abilene Bank?
By its answer, the Hanover Bank based its claim of right
to retain the notes in question solely upon its general bankers' lien and the written collateral agreement. The letters
to the Abilene Bank, coupled with the statement of its vicephesident, make plain the fact that the sole reliance of the
Hanover Bank in asserting a claim upon the notes was, in realitythe written agreement. Thus, by its communication of
January 12, 1905, confirming the telegram advising that the
Logan and Hayden notes would not be discounted, the Hanover informed the Abilene that it held the notes as collateral
for the indebtedness of the Abilene. Again, on the seventeenth
of the sane month, following the allowance of the overdraft,

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK v. SUDDATH.
215 U. S.

121

Opinion of the Court.

the New York bank wrote: "As your account showed overdrawn to-day over $3,000 we have made you a temporary
loan of $3,500 against collateral in our hands." And the
belief of, the vice-president, that the Hanover Bank was entitled to hold the four notes as collateral which led to the
allowance of the overdraft, is clearly shown by the record to
have been induced by the terms of the collateral agreement,
which he at the time inspected. It may well be that the check
of January 11, 1905, for $3,825.45 was issued in the expectation that it would be paid from the proceeds of the Logan
note of $2,000 and the Hayden note of $3,000, forwarded for
discount on January 9 and 10. But these and the subsequent
notes were not sent to be held as collateral security, but to
be discounted. The Abilene Bank had been notified by telegram not only that the Logan and Hayden notes would not be
discounted, but that it should either transfer credits from
other banks or ship currency. The information plainly conveyed by this notification was that checks drawn upon the
faith of the discount of the notes referred to must be protected
with funds to be furnished. In reason, the Hanover Bank
was not entitled to act upon the assumption that the inaction
of the Abilene Bank was equivalent to a request to pay the
drafts as presented and to hold as collateral the notes which
had been sent for discount. The Hanover Bank should, on the
contrary, in view of the action of the Abilene Bank, have
assumed the possibility that funds could not be supplied, and
that the Abilene Bank might therefore be unable to meet its
paper and be compelled to cease business. It is apparent that
the Hanover Bank in allowing the overdraft did not act upon
the assumption that the possession merely of the notes justified its reliance upon them as a security for the advance. We
say this because the record leaves no doubt that the device
of a temporary loan in order to secure the payment of the
overdraft was resorted to upon the faith of rights supposed
to inhere in the written agreement. There is no basis, therefore, for the contention that from the circumstances of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

215 U. S.

overdraft and the possession of the notes a right of retention existed created by authority or consent of the Abilene
Bank.
Affirmed.

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK OF NEW YORK, APPELLANT, v. SUDDATH, AS RECEIVER OF AMERICAN
NATIONAL BANK OF ABILENE (NO. 2).
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 13.

Argued April 20, 1909.-Decided November 29, 1909.

Where a bank, after refusing to discount paper sent to it by the insolvent for that purpose, has retained the paper, it cannot, as against
general creditors, set off against that paper, or its proceeds, the bankrupt's overdraft although made after such refusal and pending the
retention of the paper.
153 Fed. Rep. 1022, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Percy S. Dudley for appellant:
The Hanover Bank was entitled in equity to set off the advance made against the notes which it held. Scott v. Arm-

strong, 146 U. S. 499; Carr v. Hamilton, 129 U. S. 252; Scammon v. Kimball, 92 U. S. 362; Bispham's Equity, 7th ed.,
1905, ยง 327; 2 Bolles' Modern Law of Banking, 742; Rolling
Mill v. Ore & Steel Co., 152 U. S. 596, 615; Schuler v. Israel,
120 U. S. 506; Armstrong v. Chemical Bank, 41 Fed. Rep. 234;
Bank v. Massey, 192 U. S. 138. In New York the set-off
would have been allowed under the Code. Fera v. Wickham,
135 N. Y. 223; DeCamp v. Thompson, 159 N. Y. 444; Empire
Feed Co. v. Chatham Bank, 30 App. Div. 476; Thompson v.
Kessel, 30 N. Y. 383; G. & H. Co. v. Hall, 61 N. Y. 226, 236;
Brown v. Buckingham, 21. How. Pr. 190.

