OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Per Curiam.

373 U. S.

SMITH v. MISSISSIPPI.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 667.

Argued April 30, 1963.-Decided May 13, 1963.

After oral argument and study of the record, it appears that the
record is not sufficient to permit decision of petitioner's claims
that, in his trial and conviction for rape, he was denied rights
secured to him by the Fourteenth Amendment. Therefore, the
writ of certiorari is dismissed as improvidently granted, without
prejudice to an application for federal habeas corpus relief under
28 U. S. C. ยง 2241 after exhaustion of any state remedies still open
to petitioner.
Reported below: Miss. -,
139 So. 2d 857.

Morris B. Abram argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Melvin L. Wulf, Rowland Watts,
Norman Dorsen and William L. Higgs.
G. Garland Lyell, Jr., Assistant Attorney General of
Mississippi, argued the cause for respondent. With him
on the brief was Joe T. Patterson, Attorney General of
Mississippi.
PER CURIAM.

The petitioner was convicted of rape by a jury in the
Circuit Court of Madison County, Mississippi, and sentenced to death. The conviction was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of Mississippi. Miss. - , 139 So.
2d 857. We granted petitioner's motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis, and his petition for certiorari
which presented several claims of alleged denial of rights
secured to him by the Fourteenth Amendment. 371 U. S.
939. After oral argument and study of the record, we
have reached the conclusion that the record is not sufficient to permit decision of his constitutional claims. The
writ is therefore dismissed as improvidently granted, with-

SMITH v. MISSISSIPPI.
238

Per Curiam.

out prejudice to an application for federal habeas corpus
relief under 28 U. S. C. ยง 2241 after exhaustion of any
state remedies still open to him. See 28 U. S. C. ยง 2254;
Fay v. Noia, 372 U. S. 391, 435.
Upon the effective date of our action today, the stay
of execution granted October 5, 1962, by MR. JUSTICE
BLACK expires of its own terms. We see no reason, however, to continue the stay in effect. Although the Mississippi Supreme Court, see - Miss. -, 145 So. 2d 688,
reserved to the State the right, upon this Court's disposition of the writ of certiorari, to apply for an order fixing
a new execution date, we assume that that court will not
act on application of the State without affording petitioner
an opportunity to pursue with due diligence any available
state remedies and, if necessary, the remedy in federal
habeas corpus.
Writ dismissed.

