o(c'ToBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

the company had no property within the city and county
other than that returned by it. We say this because the
fraud, accident or mistake which will justify equitable
relief must be something more than what is fairly covered
by the charge here made, for otherwise the well settled
rule that mere illegality in a tax affords no ground for
such relief would be a myth. There really would be no
case in which the illegality could not be said with equal
propriety to be the result of fraud, accident or mistake,
for it always arises out of some deviation from law or duty.
Concluding, as we do, that the company had a plain,
adequate and complete remedy at law, the decree dismissing the bill is
Affirmed.

BOND v. UNKNOWN HEIRS OF BARELA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.
No. 558.

Submitted December 17, 1912.-Decided June 9, 1913.

The proceedings on which the grant involved in this case was issued
are substantially the same as those in United States v. Sandoval,
167 U. S. 278.
Whether the original grant made in 1739 by royal authority of Spain
was in severalty or communal, whatever was unalldtted passed into
the public domain of the-United States upon the acquisition of the
Territory.
In this case held that the confirmation of a Spanish grant under the
act of July 22, 1854, on the application of a town claiming to be the
owner, passed the title to that town unburdened with any trust for
heirs or grantees of persons named in the original petition and royal
decree.
16 New Mex. 660, affirmed.

BOND v. BARELA'S HEIRS.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts, which involve the title to a large tract of
land in New Mexico, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Richard H. Hanna and Mr. Francis C. Wilson for
appellants.
.11r..FrankW. Clancy for appellees.
NMn. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This suit was begun by a petition for partition and to
quiet title, filed by George W. Bond and eighty-two others
in the District Court of Valencia County, New Mexico,
against the unknown heirs of twenty-nine persons named,
all deceased, and the unknown owners, proprietors and
claimants of the premises commonly called the Tom6
grant situate in that county and described as containing
121,594.53 acres. The plaintiffs alleged that they were
owners of an undivided half interest.
The town of Tom6 appeared and answered, denying any
title or interest in the plaintiffs, averring that the grant by
Spain was to the town in communal right, was confirmed
by act of Congress to the town, a then existing municipality, was so patented by the United States, and was
incorporated under the laws of New Mexico; that allotments were made of parts of the land to settlers on the
grant in fee in severalty, and ownership of the residue was
in the municipality and had been held by it exclusively
and adversely since it was patented, April 5, 1871.
Doroteo Chaves, with three hundred and ninety-one
others, appeared and answered, denying any individual
right in any of the plaintiffs, adopting the answer of the
town as to the communal character of the grant, averring
that they were themselves severally owners in fee of
parts of the grant, and resisting partition.

OCTOBEIt TERIM,

1912.

I Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Translations of the title papers were, by stipulation,
made parts of the answers. Demurrers to the latter were
overruled, and a reply was filed, to which there was a
demurrer. This demurrer was sustained, and, the plaintiffs electing to stand upon their reply, judgment was
rendered dismissing the suit. Upon the plaintiffs' appeal
te Supreme Court of the Territory affirmed the judgment,
16 New Mex. 660, and on a further appeal the case is now
before this court.
The facts are settled by the pleadings. The questions
here are, whether the original grant made by the Crown
of Spain in 1739 was in fee in individual right or in communal right to the town, title remaining in the Crown
except as to specific parcels allotted to individuals, and
whether, if it was a grant in individual right, the confirming act of Congress, and the patent pursuant thereto,
changed its character.
The facts, as shown by the record, are these: Juan
Barela, with twenty-eight others, in 1739 petitioned that
the governor "be pleased to donate to them the land called
Tom6 Doininguez, granted to those who first solicited the
same and who declined settling thereon." The governor
(lid "grant to them, in the name of His Majesty, whom
may God preserve, the land petitioned for, called the land
of Tom6 Dominguez, for themselves, their successors, and
whomever may have a right thereto under the conditions
and circumstances required in such cases, and which is to
be without prohibition to any one desiring to settle the
same, holding and improving it during the time required
by law. In view of which, I should order, and did order,
that said senior justice or his lieutenant, whose duty it is,
shall place them in possession of the aforementioned lands,
giving in all cases to each one the portion he may be
entitled to in order to avoid difficulties which may occur
in the future."
There was a giving of "Juridical possession," a form and

BONI) v. BARELA'S HEIRS.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ceremony essential to the passing of title by grant under
the Spanish law. The report of the officer conducting this
ceremony, so far as here material, is as follows: "In the
new settlement of 'Nuestra Sefiora de l Concepcion de
Thomi Dominguez,' instituted and established by Don
Gaspar Mendoza, actual governor and captain general of
this Kingdom of New Mexico, on the thirtieth day of the
month of July, in the year one thousand seven hundred
and thirty-nine, . . . the parties concerned being
together, I proceeded to the above-mentioned place, and
all being present, I notified them of the decree; I took
them by the hand, walked with them over the land; they
cried out, pulled up weeds, threw stones, as required by
law; and having placed the new settlers in possession of
said lands, I gave them the title and vocation they should
have in the settlement, which bears the name aforementioned. . . . And the first proceedings having
been noted, I proceeded to establish the boundaries as
contained in the first petition . . . at which principal
boundaries I ordered them to perpetuate their existence
with permanent land marks, pointing out tb them also, as
a means of good economy, their common pastures, water
and watering places, and uses and customs for all, to be the
same without dispute, with the condition that each one
is to use the same without dispute, in equal portions, the
richest as well as the poorest; and by virtue of what has
been ordered, I pronounce this royal possession as sufficient title for themselves, their children, heirs and successors, to hold their lands now and forever at their will;
directing them, as I do direct them, to settle the same
within the time prescribed by the royal ordinances: and
for their greater quietude, peace, tranquility and harmony, I proceeded to point out the land each family should
cultivate, each one receiving in length a sufficient quantity
to plant one fanega of corn, two of wheat, garden and house
lot, as follows:" Here follow nineteen names of original

OCTOBER 'PIRM, 1912.
Opinion of tlie Court.

229 U. S.

petitioner's as given allotments of land, the name M!anuel
Carrillo appearing twice. Ten of the petitioners were not
allotted lands, and among those who obtained allotments
were five who were not petitioners.
It is unnecessary to discuss at length the question
whether the grant made in 1739 passed a title to the
persons therein named to the whole tract, or whether this
was merely a grant in severalty of the lands allotted to the
persons named in the report showing jUridical possession,
leaving title to the unallotted lands in the Crown, to be
allotted to future settlers. Examination shows that the
petition, decree and report, of juridical possession are in
form substantially like those-in United Slates v. Saidoval,
167 U. S. 278, wherein the effect, of such instruments is
discussed at length. See also United States v. Santa Fe,
165 U. S. 675; Rio Arriba &c. Co. v. United States, 167 U.
S.298; United Stales v. Pena, 175 U. 8. 500.
The fact that the governor made the grant "to be
without prohibition to anyone desiring to settle the same,"
that the juridical possession was to be by "giving in all
cases to each one the portion he may be entitled to," and
that juridical possession and allotment of land was made to
persons not petitioning -in, the theory of the plaintiffs, not
beneficiaries of the decree-while no land was allotted
to ten of the petitioners, who, according to the same
theory, were beneficiaries, is not explicable on any other
theory than that the grant was communal, in which settlers
and no others could by allotments obtain individual,
several interests. On this construction the omission of
allotments to petitioners not identifying themselves with
the new settlement would be the necessary consequence,
as also would be the allottments to new settlers who were
not petitioners.
Had the matter stopped there-had no grant been made'
by Congress--the grant must have been effective only as
to the lands allotted in several right to those named in

BOND v. BARELA'S HEIRS.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the report of juridical possession. Title to and power of
disposal over the residue of the land remained- in, the
Crown and. passed to the United States upon the acquisition of the territory.
There.was, however, Congressional confirmation of the
grant. In 1856 the inhabitants of Tom6 petitioned -the
sirveyor-general for New Mlexico for confirmation of the
grant to the town, conformably to the act of July 22,
15, 10 Stat. 308, c. 103. It was so confirmed by the act
of December 22, 1858, 11 Stat. 374, e.5; and, April 5,
1871., patent issued to the town of Tom6. It is said that
the legal title so passed is subject to a trust for the heirs of
the original petitioners, who, it is claimed, were beneficiaries of the decree of the Spanish governor. in 1.739.
As no benefit of that decree, and no title to any of the
land, passed to any of the petitioners save those to whom
allotments were made, and only to the allotted tracts, no
further discussion is necessary. When patent to the entire
grant issued to the town of Torn6, title to all the unallotted
land passed from the United States to the town unburdened with any trust for heirs or grantees of persons named
in the original petition and decree.
Judgment affirmed.

