McGOVERN t. NEW YORK.
229 Uo S.

Statement of the Case.

McGOVERN v. CITY OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO

THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE

STATE

OF- NEW

YORK.

No. 15. Argued November 8, 1912.-Decided June 9, 1913.
Where the state statute requires condemnation commissipners to determine the just and equitable compensation, any wrong done, so
far as amount is concerned, is due not to the statute, but to errors of
the court as to evidence or measure of damages.
A judgment by which an owner of condemned property gets less than
he ought, and in that sense is deprived of his property, cannot come
to this court on the constitutional question unless there is something
more than an ordinary honest mistake of law in the proceedings.
Backus v. Fort Street Depot, 169 U. S. 557.
The final judgment of a state court in condemnation proceedings should
not be held to violate the due process provision of the Fourteenth'
Amendment unless the rulings of law prevented the owner from obtaining substantially any compensation. Appieby v. Buffalo, 221
U. S. 524.
Enhanced value of property as a part of a great public work depends
upon the whole land necessary being taken therefor. The chance
that all the property necessary can be acquired without the exercise
of eminent domain is too remotd and speculative to be allowed.
C., B. & Q. Ry. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226.
The owner of property taken in eminent domain proceedings is entitled
to be paid only for what is taken as the title stands, Chamber of
Commercq v. Boston, 217 U. S. 189; hypothetical possibilities of
change cannot be considered. United States v. Chandler-Dunbar
Water Co., ante, p. 53, followed, and Boom Co. v. Patterson, 98
U. S. 403, distinguished.
A wide discretion is allowed the trial court in regard to admission of
evidence as to the value of property taken by eminent domain, and
this court will not interfere on the ground of denial of due process of
law where there was no plain disregard of the owner's rights.
195 N. Y. 573, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of an award in a
proceeding for condemnation of land for the water supply
system of New York City, are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TER\I, 1912.
Argimient for I'lhintiff in Error.-

22) U. 8.

Mr. Edward A. Alexander, with whom Mr. Jerome H.
Buck, Mr. J. J, Darlington and Mr. George Gbrdon Battle
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The Commissioners of Appraisal, and the courts of New
York, confiscated claimant's property in entirely excluding
from considetation, as an element of value, its adaptability
for use as part of a reservoir site. An owner is entitled
to have his interest valued upon a consideration of all the
uses for which his property is available and adaptable.
The decision below overrules Boom' Co. v. Patterson,
98 U. S. 403.
Just compensation means the fair and full money value
of the property taken; this value of the property taken
means its market value. As to what market value means,
see Wetmore v. Rymer, 169 U. S. 115, 128.
There is no maiket value, in the strict sense of the term,
for real state, and especially for country real estate, in
the sense that there is market value for stocks, bonds and
produce. Sargent v. Merrimac, 196 Massachusetts, 171.
In New York the courts will not set aside awards of
Commissioners, although the awards may be inadequate.
An award must be so inadequate that it is shocking to the
sense of justice before they will set it aside. Flynn v.
Brooklyn, 19 App. Div. 602; Long Island R. R. Co. v.
Reilly, 89 App. Div. 166.
An inadequate award, even though not shockingly so,
is, nevertheless, not just compensation. Only an adequate
award is just compensation.
The state courts have wholly, entirely and completely
confiscated the claimant's property.
While the owner is not permitted to take advantage of
the necessities of the condemning party, he is entitled to
have the value of his property considered, with reference
to its adaptability for any and all uses to which it may be
devoted.
Fitness of lands for particular purposes is an element

McGOVERN v. NEW YORK.
229 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

in estimating their market value. Boom Co. v. Patterson,
98 U. S. 403; Sedgwick on, Damages, ยง 1075; Louisville
Ry. Co. v. Ryan, 64 Mississippi, 309; Seattle Ry. Co. v.
Murphine, 4 Washington, 448, 456; Matter of Staten Island
R. R. Co., 10 N. Y. St. Rep. 393; Russell v. St. Paul Ry.
Co., 23 Minnesota, 210; Sanitary District v. Loughrani, 160
Illinois, 362; McGroarty v. Coal Co., 212 Pa. St. 53; Paine
v. Kansas Valley R. R. Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 546, 557; Amoskeag Co. v. Worcester, 60 N. H. 522; Harwood v. West
Randolph, 64 Vermont, 41; Gardiner v. Brookline, 127
Massachusetts, 358; Conness v. Commonwealth, 184 Massachusetts, 541; Gage v. Judson, 111 Fed. Rep. 358.
It has been the uniform rule in ascertaining the value
of property taken for a public use that all the capabilities
of the property and the uses to which it may be applied, or
for which it is adapted, are to be considered, and not
merely the condition which it is in at the time and the use
to which it is then applied by the owner. Hooker v. M. &
W. R. R. Co., 62 Vermont, 47; Syracuse v. Stacy, 45 App.
Div. 249, 254; Matter of N. Y., L. & W. R. Co., 27 Hun,
116; Benham v. Dunbar, 103 Massachusetts, 368. See
also to the same effect: Matter of Furman Street, 17 Wend.
649, 669; College Point v. Dennett, 5 T. & C. 217; Matter of
Commissioners, 37 Hun, 537, 555; Matter of Union E. L.
R. R. Co., 55 Hun, 163; Matter of Daly, 72 App. Div. 396.
In this case the city is condemning property from which
it will derive a commercial profit, and in that respect is
different from that of a public park or public school, or
fortification, where the property is condemned exclusively
and solely for public benefit.
The proposed testimony offered and rejected by the
state courts is not speculative. Matter of Gilroy, 85 Hut.,
424, 426.
Such testimony is no more guesswork in this ease, than
in any other where the special adaptability of' lrOperty is
taken into consideration. Blake v. Griswold, 103 N. Y.

OCTOBPIdt TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

229 U. S.

429, 436; 12 Amer. & Eng. Encyc. of Law, 2d ed., 484,
citing Spring Valley Water Works v. Drinkhouse, '92
California, 528; Chandler v. JamaicaPond Aqueduct, 125
Massachusetts, 544; Lake Shore Ry. Co. v. Chicago R. R.
Co., 100 Illinois, 21, 33; Read v. Barker, 30 N. J. L. 378;
S. C., 32 N. J. L. 477; Lowell v. Middlesex County, 146
Massachusetts, 403; Warren v. Spencer Water Co.. 143
Massachusetts, 155.
Claimant is not seeking to measure the value of his land
by the profits which the city will derive from its use. He
contends, however, that the savings accruing to the condemning party by taking the particular land in question
in preference to other land of a similar character, which
saving would accrue to any person using the land for the
same purposes, must be taken into consideration, as compotent evidence of the market value of the property.
Boom Co. v. Patterson,98 U. S. 403; Great Falls Mfg. Co. v.
United States, 16 Ct. Cl. 160, aff'd, 112 U. S. 645.
In Great Britain in reservoir site cases, availability and
adaptability must be taken into consideration. Manchester v. Countess Ossilinski (unreported, but cited in
Re Brookfield, 176 N. Y. 138, Vol. 2043, N. Y. Law Institute Library); Currie v. Waverly &c. Ry. Co., 52 N. J. L.
381, 394; In re Gough, L. R. 1904, 1 K. B. 417.
The executive department of this State has always taken
adaptability of property into consideration in making purchases, as may be seen in the acquisition of the forest
reserves.
A prior demand for the particular property is entirely
immaterial, but as a matter of fact there were a number
of prior demands for this particular property for this very
purpose, and offers were made to prove this.
The reasoning by which the Appellate Division of the
Supreme Court of New York State reached its conclusion,
which was affirmed without opinion by the Court of
Appeals, so far as it is clear and to be understood, is un-

McGOVERN v. NEW YORK.
229 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

sound in principle and necessarily 16ads to a false result and
to the confiscation of the property of plaintiff in error.
The market price considered by the Commissioners apparently was the value of the property in the local market,
i. e., the adaptability to farm purposes.
But the local market, and the necessities of the rural
community, should not govern the value of this property, if
it can be shown that it has a special value for millions of
citizens in New York, and for hundreds of thousands of
people in other municipalities. The claimant offered to
prove that it is available for this special purpose and that
it has an enormous value in such broader market, but he
has been deprived of all opportunity to produce evidence
upon these two points. Langdon v. Mayor, 133 N. Y.
628, 630. Boom Co. v. Patterson, 99 U. S. 403, and Matter
of Gilroy, 85 Hun, 424, are controlling authorities. The
cases relied upon by the Appellate Division do not overrule these authorities. The cases of Albany Northern R.
R. Co., 16 Barb. 68; Matter of Daly, 72 App. Div. 394;
Matter of East River Gas Co., 119 App. Div. 350; Moulton
v. Newburyport Water Co., 137 Massachusetts, 163; Matter
of N. Y. L. & W. R. R. Co. v. Arnot, 27 Hun, 151; Daly v.
Smith, 18 App. Div. 197; Matter of New York, 118 App.
Div. 272; St. Johnsville v. Smith, 184 N. Y. 34, can be
distinguished.
Market value is not always the true measure of just
compensation as between an unwilling seller and a willing
purchaser., Sloane v. Baird, 162 N. Y. 327, 330; Murray
v. Stanton, 99 Massachusetts, 345; Matter of FurmanStreet,
17 Wend. 648, 671.
The adaptability of land for use as a reservoir or for water purposes has been taken into consideration as an element of value of such land in a number of well decided and
carefully considered cases, both in Great Britain and in
the United States. See Cripps Law of Compensation;
Gearhart v. Clear Spring Water Co., 202 Pa. St. 22.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plainitiff in Error.

229 U. S.

The fact that the plantiff in error did not or could not
alone use his property as a reservoir site does not deprive
that property of its value as a reservoir site or a portion
of a reservoir site. Boom Co. v. Patterson, supra; C. N.
IV. R. R. Co. v. C. & E. R..R. Co., 112 Illinois, 609; Hooker
v. N. & W. R. R. Co., 62 Vermont, 47; Railway Co. v.
Woodruff, 49 Arkansas, 381; Mississippi Bridge Co. v.
Ring, 58 Missouri, 491.
The fact that plaintiff in error was the owner of only a
part of the reservoir site does not prevent that element of
value being considered. It only goes to the weight that
slhould be given to the evidence and the amount that
should be allowed for this element, of value. See Gilroy
Casc, 85 Hun, 424; San Diego Land Co. v. Neale, 78 California, 63, 72.
By refusing to take into consideration, in estimating
the value of the claimant's property, the value of its use or
availability for use as a reservoir site, the plaintiff in error
has been deprived of his property, without due process of
law, and has been denied the equal protection of the law
in violation of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments of
the Constitution of the United States. Yesler v. Harbor
Commissioners, 146 U. S. 646; People v. Supervisors, 70
N. Y. 228, 234.
It is not due process of law, where the courts apply a
rule of law in absolute disregard of the right' to just compensation. Chi., B. & Q. Rd. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S.
226; Backus v. Fort St. Depot Co., 169 U. S.557, 565.
The term "just compensation" as used in this statute
should be liberally construed in favor of the property
owner and in case of any doubt the property owner should
receive the benefit of the doubt.
Eminent domain statutes axe construed most strictly
against the condemning party. Cooley on Const. Lirn.
See also: Appleby v. Buffalo, 221.U. S. 524, 529; Twining
v. Yew' Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 91; Raymond v. Chicago Trac-

McGOVERN v. NEW YORK.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion Co., 207 U. S. 20, 35, 36; Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S.
373, 386.
The capabilities of the property of the plaintiff in error,
its adaptability and availability for use as part of a reservoir sit6, constitute commercial value and property. The
term "property" means the right to use, exercise dominion
over, and dispose of some particular thing or object.
Property means ownership, the exclusive right of a person
to freely use, enjoy and dispose of any object, whether real
or personal. Hamilton v. Rathbone, 175 U. S. 421; Buffalo
v. Babcock? 56 N. Y. 268; Matter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98,
aff'g, 33 Hun, 374.
MT. Louis C. White, with whom Mr. Archibald R.
Watson and Mr. Win. McM. Speer were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE

HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding for the taking of land to be used for
a reservoir to secure an additional supply of water for the
City of New York. Commissioners were appointed, as
provided by the constitution of the State, to ascertain the
compensation to be paid. Land belonging to the plaintiff
in error, McGovern, was among the many parcels taken
and the question brought here arises on the refusal of the
Commissioners to admit certain evidence as to the exceptional value of the land for a reservoir site, the exclusion of which, it was alleged, had the effect of depriving
McGovern of his property without due process of law,
contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. The offer of proof as first made
embraced many facts and covers six octavo pages of the
record. This was rejected, the Commissioners, as we
understand their ruling, considering it only as a unit, and
as containing inadmissible elements, which probably it
VOL. ccxxix-24

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

did. The offer then was made "to prove the fair and reasonable market value of this piece of property taking
into consideration that element of value which gives it
an enhanced value because it is part of a natural reservoir
site;" also "to prove the fair and reasonable value of the
Ashokan reservoir site which the City of New York is now
condemning," and that the Ashokan reservoir site (as a
whole) was the best and most available site for the purpose
of obtaining an additional water supply. These offers
were enough to raise the question discussed, although the
last one was only a reiteration of what was alleged in the
original petition for the taking of the land and stood admitted on the record. The action of the Commissioners
was affirmed by the courts of New York. 130 App. Div.
350, 356; 195 N. Y. 573.
The statute requires the Commissioners to determine
'the just and equitable compensation which ought to be
made.' If there has been any wrong done it is due not to
the statute but to the courts having made a mistake as to
evidence, or at most as to the measure of damages. But
of course not every judgment by which a man gets less
than he ought and in that sense is deprived of his property
can come to this court. The result of a judgment in trover,
at least if satisfied (Lovejoy v. Murray, 3 Wall. 1; Miller
v. Hyde, 161 Massachusetts, 472), is to'pass property as
effectually as condemnation proceedings-yet no one
would contend that a plaintiff could come here under the
Constitution simply because of an honest mistake to his
disadvantage in laying down the rule of damages for conversion. If the plaintiff 'could bring such a case to this
court, one might ask why not the defendant for a mistake
in the opposite direction that will deprive him of money
that he is entitled to keep.
When property is taken by eminent domain it equally
is recognized that there must be something more than an
ordinary honest mistake of law in, the proceedings for

McGOVERN v. NEW YORK.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

compensation before a party can make out that the State
has deprived him of his property unconstitutionally.
Backus v. Fort Street Union Depot Co., 169 U. S. 557, 575,
576. As it is put in the case most frequently cited in favor
of the right to a writ of error, "we are permitted only to
inquire whether the trial court prescribed any rule for the
guidance of the jury that was in absolute disregard of the
company's right to just compensation." And again the
final judgment of a state court "ought not to be held in
violation of the due process of law enjoined by the Fourteenth Amendment unless by the rulings upon questions of
law the company was prevented from obtaining substantially any compensation." Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 246, 247; Appleby
v. Buffalo, 221 U. S. 524, 531, 532.
The present case of course does not show disregard of
McGovern's rights or that he was prevented from obtaining substantially any compensation. Even if the plaintiff
in error is right, it shows only that the Commissioners
courts of New York adopted too narrow a view upon
aand
doubtful
point in the measure of damages. It hardly
even is so strong as that; for the ruling of the Commissioners is not to be taken as an abstract universal proposition, but the judgment concerning this particular case
found by men presumably, as the plaintiff in error says,
men of experience who had or were free to acquire outside
information concerning the general conditions of the taking and the selected site. The plaintiff in error quotes authority that, probably for this reason, the New York
courts will not set aside an award of such Commissioners
unless so palpably wrong as to shock the sense of justice.
It is conceded 'that the owner is not permitted to take
advantage of the necessities of the condemning party,'
and it would seem that it well might be that the Commissioners regarded it as too plain to be shaken by evidence,
on the public facts, that the value of the land for a reservoir

OCTOBER TERM,, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

site' could not come into consideration except upon the
hypothesis that the City of New York could not get along
without it and that its only means of acquisition was
voluntary sale by owners aware of the necessity and intending to make from it the most'they could. It is just
'this advantage that a taking by eminent domain excludes.
But if the rulings complained of be taken as universal
propositions they present no element of the arbitrary even
if they should be thought to be wrong. The enhanced
value of the land as part of the Ashokan reservoir depends
oan the whole land necessary being devoted to that use.
There are said to have been hundreds of titles to different
parcels of that land. If the parcels were not brought together by a taking under eminent domain, the chance of
their being united by agreement or purchase in such a way
as to be available well might be regarded as too remote
and speculative to have any legitimate effect upon the
valuation. See Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co.
v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 249. The plaintiff in error was
entitled to be paid only for what was taken from him as
the titles stood, and could not add to the value by the
hypothetical possibility of a change unless that possibility
was considerable enough to be a practical consideration
and actually to influence prices. Boston Chamber of Commerce v. Boston, 217 U. S. 189, 195. In estimating that
probability the power of effecting the change by eminent
domain must be left out. The principle is illustrated in an
extreme form by the disallowance of the strategic value for
improvements of the island in St. Mary's River in United
States v. Chandler-DunbarWater Power Co., ante, p. 53.
The plaintiff in error relies upon cases like Mississippi
&c. Boom Company v. Patterson, 98 U. S.403, to sustain
his position that while the valuation cannot be increased
by the fact that his iand has been taken for a water supply
still it can be by the fact that the land is valuable for that
purpose. The difficulties in the way of such evidence and

NASI v. UNITED STATES.
229 U. S.

Syllabus.

the wide discretion allowed to the trial court are well
brought out in Sargent v. Merrimac, 196 Massachusetts,
171. Much depends on the circumstances of the particular case. We are satisfied on all the authorities that
whether we should have agreed or disagreed with the
Commissioners, if we had been valuing the land, there was
no such disregard of plain rights by the courts of New
York as to warrant our treating their decision, made
without prejudice, in due form and after full hearing, as
a denial by the State of due process of law.
Judgment affirmed,
MR. JUSTICE DAY

dissents.

NASH v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 197.

Argued March 18, 19, 1913.-Decided June 9, 1913.

In many instances a man's fate depends upon his rightly estimating,
that is as the jury subsequently 6stimates it, some matter of degree,
and there is no constitutional difficulty in the way of enforcing the
criminal provisions of the Sherman Anti Trust Act on the ground of
uncertainty as to the prohibitions.
The Sherman Act punishes the conspiracies at which it is aimed on the
common law footing and does not make the doing of any act other
than the act of conspiring a condition of liability. In this respect it
diiTerA from ยง 5440 and the indictment need not -aver overt acts in
"furtherance of the conspiracy. Brown v. Elliott, 225 U. S. 392, distinguished.
This court can see no reason for reading into the Sherman Act more
than it finds there.
It is not necessary for an indictment under the Sherman Act to allege

