OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

was a man of small means and the responsibility of the
railroad company unquestioned, serve to show any actual
fraudulent purpose in joining him as a defendant. If the
plaintiff had a cause of action which was joint and had
elected to sue both tort-feasors in one action, his motive
in doing so is of no importance, Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry.
v. Schwyhart, 227 U. S. 184; Deere, Wells & Co. v. Chicago,
M. & St. P. Ry., 85 Fed. Rep. 876; Welch v. Cincinnati &C.
Ry., 177 Fed. Rep. 760.
There was no error in denying the petition to remove.
Judgment affirmed.

NORFOLK & WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
EARNEST.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 153.

Argued January 29, 30, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

The truth of evidence tending to show a custom as to where switchmen
walk in a railroad yard is for the jury to determine; and if true it is
the duty of an engineer, in the exercise of ordinary care to watch
for a switchman whom he knows is in the usual locality and in front
of his engine.
It is not error to refuse an instruction as to assumption of risk which
is couched in such sweeping terms that it could not enlighten the
jury as to the particular phase of the case to which it is deemed applicable.
Fairness to the court requires one objecting to a particular part of the
charge as misleading to call special attention to the words in order
that the court may either modify or explain them.
An instruction that contributory negligence of the employ6 goes by
way of diminution of damages, held not error because the statute
says that in such a case the jury must diminish the damages, it appearing that the words objected to followed an instruction that the

NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. v. EARNEST.
229 U. S.

115

Opinion of the Court.

damages in such a case shall be diminished by'the jury, and the words
objected to wcre meant to give effect to, and not to qualify, the previous instruction.
The purposeof the provision in regard to contributory negligence
in the Employers' Liability Act is to abrogate the common-law rule
of complete exoneration of the carrier from liability in case of any
negligence whatever on the part of the employ6 and to substitute
therefor a new rule confining the exoneration to a proportional part
of the damages corresponding to the amount of negligence attributable to the employ6.
Where an instruction embodies several propositions of law, to some of
which no objection can properly be taken, a general exception does
not entitle the exceptor to take advantage of a mistake or error in
some single or minor proposition of law.

THE facts, which involve the liability of a railroad for
personal injuries sustained by one of its employ6s while
both were engaged in interstate commerce, and the construction of the provisions of the Employers' Liability
Act of 1908 in regard to contributory negligence, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Roy B. Smith and Mr. John H. Holt, with whom
Mr. Theodore W. Reath was on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Bynum E. Hilton, and Mr. Thomas Lee Moore,
with whom Mr. Harold J. Pack and Mr. Samuel B. Pack
were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.

This was an action against a railroad company to recover for personal injuries sustained by an employ6 while
both were engaged in interstate commerce. The plaintiff
secured a verdict and judgment in the Circuit Court, and
the defendant sued out this direct vrit of error, claiming

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

that the Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, 35
Stat. 65, c. 149, upon which the right of action was based,
was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
After the writ of error was allowed, our decision in Second
Enployers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, settled the constitutional questions in favor of the validity of the statute,
but it is still necessary that we pass upon other questions
presented in the case. Michigan Central Railroad Company v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59, 63.
The injury to the plaintiff occurred in the night time,
in the month of February, in the railroad yards of the
defendant at North Fork, West Virginia, while he was
piloting a locomotive through several switches to a main
track, where the locomotive was to be attached to an
interstate train to assist in moving it over an upgrade in
the direction of the next station. He carried a torch
and was proceeding in advance of the locomotive to see
whether the switches were in proper position, and, if not,
to change them. Upon reaching the first switch, known
as No. 3, he found it in proper position, signaled the
engineer accordingly, and advanced along the track,
between the rails, to a point near the next switch, known
as No. 2, where the engine overtook him and inflicted
serious injuries upon him, resulting in the loss of his
right leg. He had not yet signaled to the engineer whether
that switch was in proper position, and one of the questions
controverted at the trial was, whether the engineer was
negligent in attempting to pass over that switch without
waiting for a signal. The evidence for the plaintiff was
to the effect that it was the established custom in that
yard for the engineer to await a signal from the pilot
before proceeding over a switch and that the pilot was
entitled to rely upon the engineer's conforming to that
custom,; while the evidence for the defendant was to the
effect that by the settled custom the engineer, 'although
required to await a signal before passing over the first

NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. ?. EARNEST.
229 U. S.

117

Opinion of the Court.

switch, was not required to await a signal bcfore passing
over the others, and that it was incumbent upon the pilot
to govern himself accordingly. The evidence was likewise
contradictory as to whether it was usual for pilots, in
advancing before the engine, to walk between the rails,
and also as to whether the conditions outside the track
made it necessary to do so in the night time. But although
the evidence was conflicting in these particulars, it established without any contradiction that it was the duty
of the pilot to go ahead and see that the switches were
lined up properly and, if not, to put them in position
for the engine to pass, and that it was the duty of the
engineer to keep control of his engine and to follow at a
rate of not more than three or four miles an hour. Both
the plaintiff and the engineer had been in this service
for a long time and were familiar with the manner in
which it was conducted and with all the conditiojns surrounding it. The plaintiff admitted that as he advanced
from the first to the second switch, a distance of 130 feet,
he made no attempt to see where the engine was, and
the engineer substantially admitted that in covering that
distance he made no attempt to see where the plaintiff was.
Each justified his action or nonaction in this regard by
what he described as the usage in that service.
In its charge to the jury the court, after saying that the
mere occurrence of the injury was no evidence of negligence on the part of the defendant or its engineer and that
the burden was on the plaintiff to establish such negligence by affirmative evidence, gave the following instructions at the defendant's request:
"The court further instructs the jury that if they shall
believe from the evidence that the custom and practice
in the North Fork yard was for the engineer to follow the
fireman with his engine as he lined up the switches, and
not to wait for a signal to proceed after the first switch,
then it was not the duty of the engineer to wait for such

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

signal, and he had the right to proceed without any being
given, and the fact that engineer Drawbond did approach
switch No. 2, where the plaintiff was injured without any
further signal from him is no evidence of negligence against
defendant company.
"The court instructs the jury that if they shall believe
from the evidence that it was the custom and practice
in the North Fork yard for the fireman to line up the
switches and for the engineer to follow him at a rate of
three or four miles per hour .without signals, or upon
signal to proceed given at switch No. 3 [the first one],
and if they shall further believe from the evidence that
plaintiff was familiar with this custom and practice in
said yard, and that at and before the accident which resulted in plaintiff's injury, engineer Drawbond was proceeding in accordance with this custom, then they are
told that said engineer Drawbond had the right to act on
the assumption and belief that the plaintiff in lining up
the switches would take reasonable precaution for his
own safety against the approaching engine."
The defendant complains that, the court refused to
say to the jury in-that connection that the engineer was
not required to keep any lookout for the plaintiff. We
think the refusal was right. As before indicated, there
was evidence tending to show that it was usual for the
pilot to walk between the rails in advance of the locomotive, that the conditions outside the track made it
necessary to do so in the night time, and that all this was
known to the engineer. Whether this evidence was true
was for the jury to determine, and if it was true it certainly could not be said as matter of law that the engineer
was in the exercise of ordinary care, which was the controlling standard for him, if he made no effort to see
whether the plaintiff was on the track and took no precautions for his protection. Upon that question 'the
court rightly gave the following instruction:

NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. v. EARNEST.
229 U. S.

119

Opinion of the Court.

"If the jury believes from the evidence that it was
necessary or usual within the knowledge of John Drawbond [the engineer] for the plaintiff to walk on, along or
over the tracks of the defendant company in front of the
said engine while it was moving, in order to properly
perform his duties of piloting said engine out of said yard,
it was then the duty of the defendant company, through
its engineer in charge of said engine, to use reasonable
care and caution in the management of said engine and
to keep such a lookout for the plaintiff as an ordinarily
prudent and careful man would have done under the
circumstances, to avoid running said engine, upon or
over the plaintiff; and if the said engineer did not exercise
such reasonable care and caution and that his failure so
to do was the proximate cause of the accident, then they
must find for the plaintiff."
Complaint is also made of the refusal to give an instruction requested by the defendant upon the subject
of assumption of risk. But the instruction was couched
in such general and sweeping terms that it was not calculated to give the jury an accurate understanding of
the law upon that subject or to direct their attention to
the particular phase of the case to vhich it was deemed
applicable. Consequently, the refusal to give it was not
error.
The declaration alleged that the plaintiff's damages
amounted to $20,000, and prayed judgment for that sum.
One paragraph of the charge to the jury dealt at some
length with the question of the measure of damages and
contained the statement that, if the verdict was for the
plaintiff, he should be awarded "such an amount of damages, not exceeding $20,000 as" would compensate him
for the injury. An exception was taken to this paragraph,
without indicating wherein it was deemed objectionable,
and complaint is now made that it erroneously conveyed
to the jury an intimation that a finding that the plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

tiff's damages amounted to $20,000 was justified by the
evidence. Looking at the entire paragraph we think it
could not have been understood by the jury as conveying
such an intimation, and that the words now criticised
could only have been understood as marking a limit beyond which the jury could not go. Besides, if the defendant entertained any fear that the jury would be misled in that regard, it should, in fairness to the court and
the plaintiff, have called special attention to those words
in order that they might be so modified or explained as
to leave no doubt of their purpose and meaning. McDermott v. Severe, 202 U. S. 600, 610.
The third section of the Employers' Liability Act declares, subject to a proviso not material here, that "the
fact that the employ6 may have been guilty of contributory negligence shall not bar a recovery, but the damages
shall be diminished by the jury in proportion to the
amount of negligence attributable to such employ6;"
and in its charge the court dealt with the subject of contributory negligence as follows:
"Contributory negligence is the negligent act of a
plaintiff, which concurring and co~perating with the
negligent act of a defendant is the proximate cause of
the injury. If you should find that the plaintiff was
guilty of contributory negligence, the act of Congress
under which this suit was brought provides that such
contributory negligence is not to defeat a recovery altogether, but the damages shall be diminished by the jury
in proportion to the amount of negligence attributable
to such employ6. So, if you reach that point in your
deliberations where you find it necessary to consider the
defence of contributory negligence, the negligence of the
plaintiff is not a bar to a recovery, but it goes by way of
diminution of damages in proportion to his negligence
as compared with the negligence of the defendant. If
the defendant relies upon the defence of contributory

NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. v. EARNEST.
229 U. S.

121

Opinion of the Court.

negligence, the burden is upon it to establish that defence by a preponderance of the evidence."
An exception to this instruction was reserved, without

suggesting any other objection to it than that the Employers' Liability Act was deemed unconstitutional. It
is now criticised (a) because, instead of saying that, if

the plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence, the
jury "must diminish the damages," it merely said that
such negligence "goes by way of diminution of damages,"

and (b) because it prescribed a wrong rule for the diminution in that it directed or permitted it to be made upon
a comparison of the plaintiff's negligence with that of the

defendant. Both criticisms were advanced in the Circuit
Court in support of a motion for a new trial which was
overruled, the court stating that neither criticism had
been sugge:sted before.
We think there is no merit whatever in the first criticism. In one sentence the instruction plainly stated that
the statute requires, where the plaintiff has been guilty
of contributory negligence, that "the damages shall be
diminished by the jury," and the statement in the next
sentence that such negligence "goes by way of diminution of damages" was evidently intended as a mere repetition of the statutory requirement in somewhat different
words. Its purpose was to give effect to what went before,
not to qualify it, and it is not reasonable to believe that
the jury could have thought otherwise.
The other criticism deserves more discussion. The
thought which the instruction expressed and made plain
was that, if the plaintiff had contributed to his injury
by his own negligence, the diminution in the damages
should be in proportion to the amount of his negligence.
This was twice said, each time in terms readily understood. But for the use in the second instance of the
additional words "as compared with the negligence of
the defendant" there would be no room for criticism.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Those words were not happily chosen, for to have reflected what the statute contemplates they should, have
read, "'as compared with the combined negligence of
himself and the defendant." We say this because the
statutory direction that the diminution shall be "in proportion to 'the amount of negligence attributable to such
employ 6 " means, and can only mean, that, where the
causal negligence is partly attributable to him and partly
to the carrier, he shall not recover full damages, but
only a proportional amount bearing the same relation to
the full amount as the negligence attributable to the
carrier bears to the entire negligence attributable to
both; the purpose being to abrogate the common law rule
completely exonerating the carrier from liability in such
a case and to substitute a new rule confining the exoneration to a proportional part of the damages corresponding
to the amount of negligence attributable to the employ6 .
Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 50.
Not improbably the mistake in the instruction was
purely verbal and would have been promptly corrected
had attention been specially called to it, and possibly it
was not prejudicial to the defendant. But, be that as it
may, the record discloses that full opportunity for presenting objections was afforded and that the one now
pointed out was not made. We must therefore apply
the rule that where an instruction embodies several propositions of law, to some of which no objection properly
could be taken, a general exception to the entire instruction will not entitle the exceptor to take advantage of a
mistake or error in some single or minor proposition
therein. Baltimore & Potomac Railroad Co. v. Mackey,
157 U. S. 72, 86; McDermott v. Severe, supra.
Judgment affirmed.

