STUDLEY v. BOYLSTON BANK.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

STUDLEY, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF COLIVER TOURS COMPANY v. BOYLSTON NATIONAL BANK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 899.

Argued April 14, 1913.-Decided June 9, 1913.

Nothing in the Bankruptcy Act deprives a bank with which the insolvent is doing business of the rights of any other creditor taking
money without reasonable cause to believe that a preference will
result.
In this case it having been found that the deposits and payments of
notes were not made to enable the bank to secure a preference by
the right of set-off, the bank had a right under its agreement to set
off the deposits against the notes within four months of the bankruptcy. New York County Bank v. Massey, 192 U. S. 138.
Section 68a of the Bankruptcy Act did not create the right of set-off
but recognized its existence and provided a method for its enforcement even after bankruptcy.
The right of set-off is recognized by the Bankruptcy Act and it cannot
be taken away by construction because of possibility of its abuse;
nor will the act be so construed by denying such right as to make
banks hesitate to carry on business and thus produce evils of serious
consequence.
200 Fed. Rep. 249, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a bank to accept
in good faith payments from an insolvent, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. J. Butler Studley, with whom Mr. William H. Dunbar and Mr. Stewart C. Woodworth were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Hollis R. Bailey for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE LAMAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Collver Tours Company was engaged in the business
of conducting touring parties around the world, charging

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

a lump sum for the tickets, which were paid for in advance.
It had expended about $40,000 in advertising, which it
carried on its books as an asset, and since the character
of its business (lid not involve the possession of tangible
property, it had nothing except cash on hand, good-will
and its earning capacity as a means of paying debts.
In 1907 the company opened an account with the Boylston National Bank, with which it subsequently did all of
its banking business of depositing, checking and borrowing. It notified the Bank in 1909 that it had no other
liabilities except what was due to the Bank, and it was
given a line of credit of $25,000. It borrowed that sum
on the promise to repay it that year, but as it used a part
of its funds to open a Letter-of-Credit Account in the
Bank, it was permitted to renew the notes. In December,
1909, it made a statement to the Massachusetts Corporation Commission which showed that the company did not
have assets sufficient to pay its liabilities, and an officer of
the Bank saw this statement, but the representative of the
Collver Company went over the matter with the bank
officers, made an explanation and borrowed an additional
sum of $5,000 in the spring or summer of 1910. During
tie year 1910 the debt of $25,000 was reduced to $10,000,
went back to $25,000, was reduced again to $15,000 and
increased to $30,000-the Collver Company making to
the Bank encouraging statements of its prospects and of
an anticipated large sale of tickets for round-the-world
tours. One note for $5,000 was paid and the then debt of
$25,000 was represented by five notes for $5,000 each,
maturing Sept. 12, 20, 30, Oct. 3 and 14th.
The balances in bank to the credit of the Collver Company fluctuated greatly from time to time, varying from
almost nothing up to as high as $54,000. As a result of
sales of tickets, the company deposited large sums in
August and September and smaller sums in October and
November. During that period $22,500 was paid to the

STUDLEY v. BOYLSTON BANK.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Bank, the three notes due September 12, 20 and 30 being
paid by checks on the Boylston National Bank. The note
for $5,000 due Oct. 3, was charged to the Company's
account and on the same day a renewal note for $2,500
was discounted. The note for $5,000 which fell due on
October 14 was also charged to the deposit account according to the custom of the Bank, of which the Collver
Company had notice and to which it assented. On the
date of the payment by such charging of the last note to
the account the Company had $19,000 left to its credit.
The Collver Company continued to make deposits and to
draw checks, and applied for a new loan, which was refused by the Bank. On Dec. 16, 1910, a petition in
bankruptcy was filed against the Company and after his
election the Trustee brought suit against the Bank to recover the $22,500, claiming that it had notice of the
Collver Company's insolvency and that the payments of
$22,500 were transfers which had operated to give the
Boylston Bank a preference within four months of filing
the petition.
In its answer the Bank alleged that it was informed and
believed that the Company was doing a large and constantly increasing business and was in every way responsible; that the Company for a long time kept its general deposit with the Bank and was constantly making deposits therein, some large, some small, upon all of which
the Bank had a lien and a right of set-off and that "this
right of set-off was not affected by the fact, if it be a fact,
that the Company was at any of the times of the exercise
of said right of set-off, insolvent;" and it claimed that the
exercise of its right of set-off did not and could not constitute a preference within the meaning of the Bankruptcy
Act or any amendment thereto.
The case was tried by the Referee, who sustained the
Bank's claim of set-off, holding that the payments were
not transfers; or,--if transfers-- hat the Trustee could not

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

recover the money because the bank had no reasonable
cause to believe that the payment of the notes would
operate as a preference. On exceptions to the report it
was sustained on the ground that the deposits had been
honestly made in due course of business and that the
defendant, by virtue of its banker's lien and right of
set-off, could retain the money. That judgment was
affirmed on the same ground by the Circuit Court of Appeals. (200 Fed. Rep. 249.) The case was then brought
here by the Trustee, who insists that all the payments were
transfers;-that if the notes charged to the account are
not transfers certainly the giving of the three checks for
.$5,000 were transfers and that in receiving the same
the Bank necessarily knew that it was obtaining a preference.
But if, as found by the Referee, the Bank had no reasonable cause to believe such transfers would effect a preference, the payments by checks for $15,000 drawn on the
deposit account, are as much protected as if on the same
dates similar checks had been given in payment of like
amounts due another bank with which the Collver Company kept no account. For there is nothing in the statute
which deprives a bank, with whom an insolvent is doing
business,: of the rights of any other creditor taking money
without reasonable cause to believe that a preference will
result from the payment. The Bankruptcy Act contemplates that by remaining in business and at work an insolvent may become able to pay off his debts. It does not
prevent him from continuing in trade, depositing money
in bank, drawing checks and paying debts as they mature,
either to his own bank br any other creditor. It does provide, however, that if bankruptcy ensues all payments
thus made, within the four months period, may be recovered by the Trustee, if the creditor had reasonable cause
to believe that a preference would be thereby effected.
In this case the Referee found as a fact that the Bank

STUDLEY v. BOYLSTON BANK.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

had no reasonable cause to believe that a preference would
result. The District Judge made no finding of fact,
though in his opinion, which cannot be considered as a
finding of fact, he did state that the Bank had a right to
examine the company's books and could have discovered
that a preference would result. The Circuit Court of
Appeals made no ruling on this subject, and we, therefore,
pass to the consideration of the right of set-off in the light
of the finding by the Referee, by the District Judge, and
by the Court of Appeals that the deposits were honestly
made in' due course of business and without any intent to
prefer the Bank.
The money so deposited was the proceeds of the sale of
tickets to a large party of round-the-world tourists and
was put in bank, not for the purpose of preferring it, but
in the expectation of being used for carrying on the business in the future as in the past. Indeed, the payments
were made with the statement that the company would
expect the Bank to discount other notes. We find nothing
in the record to indicAte that the deposits were made for
the purpose of enabling the Bank to secure a preference
by the'exercise of the right of set-off. The case, therefore,
comes directly within the decision in New York County
National Bank v. Massey, 192 U. S. 138, where $3,884
deposited by an insolvent customer, in good faith, four
days before the filing of the, petition against him was
allowed to the Bank by way of set-off on notes of the bankrupt held by it.
An effort is made to distinguish that case from this, by
calling attention to the fact. that here, by checks drawn
on the account or notes charged to the account, the parties
themselves voluntarily made the set-off before the petition
was filed,-while in the Massey Case the Trustee, under
the supervision of the Referee stated an account and
allowed the set-off as permitted by ยง 68a, which provides
"that in all cases of mutual debts, or mutual credits be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

tween the estate of a bankrupt and a creditor the account
shall be stated and one debt shall be set off against the
other, and the balance only shall be allowed or paid."
That section did not create the right of set-off but
recognized its existence and provided a method by which
it could be enforced even after bankruptcy. What the
old books called a right of stoppage-what business men
call set-off, is a right given or recognized by the commercial law of each of the States and is protected by the Bankruptcy Act if the petition is filed before the parties have
themselves given checks, charged notes, made book entries, or stated an account whereby the smaller obligation
is applied on the larger.
The banker's lien on deposits, the right of retention and
set-off of mutual debts are frequently spoken of as though
they were synonymous, while in strictness, a set-off is a
counterclaim which the defendant may interpose by way
of cross-action against the plaintiff. But, broadly speaking, it represents the right which one party has against
another to use his claim in full or partial satisfaction of
what he owes to the other. That right is constantly
exercised by business men in making book entries whereby
one mutual debt is applied against another. If the parties
have not voluntarily made the entries and suit is brought
by one against the other, the defendant, to avoid a circuity
of action, may interpose his mutual claim by way of defense and if it exceeds that of the plaintiff, may recover
for the difference. Such counterclaims can be asserted
as a defense or by the voluntary act of the parties, because it is grounded on the absurdity of making A pay B
when B owes A. If this set-off of mutual debts has been
lawfully made by the parties before the petition is filed,
there is no necessity of the Trustee doing so. If it has not
been done by the parties, then, under command of the
statute, it must be done by the Trustee. But there is
nothing in ยง 68a which prevents the parties from volunta-

STUDLEY r. BOYLSTON BANK.
229 U. S.

Qpinioi of the Court.

rily doing, before the petition is filed, what the law itself
requires to be done after proceedings in bankruptcy are
instituted.
The Bank was indebted to the Collver Company as a
depositor some $54,000 for money deposited in good faith
in the usual course of business and with no purpose of
enabling the Bank to secure the right of set-off. The Collver Company, on the other hand, was indebted to the
Bank $25,000 on notes maturing at various dates. These
were mutual debts, and if on the date the first note became
due, the Collver Company had failed to pay it, the Bank
could have enforced its banker's lien or its right of set-off,
by applying $5,000 of the deposits in payment of the note
which matured that day, and so on as each of the other
notes became due. It cannot have been illegal for the
parties on September 12, 20, 30, October 3 and 14 to do
what the law would have required the Trustee to do in
stating the account after the petition was filed on December 16, 1910. No money passed in either instance; for,
whether the checks for $5,000 were paid or notes for
$5,000 were charged, was, in either event, a book entry
equivalent to the voluntary exercise by the parties of the
right of set-off.
The Bankruptcy Act recognizes this right and it cannot
be taken away by construction because of the possibility
that it may be abused. The remedy against that evil is
found in the fact that the Trustee is authorized to sue and
recover if it is shown that after insolvency the money
was deposited for the purpose of enabling a bank or other
creditor to secure a preference. But to deny the right of
set-off, in cases like this, would in many cases make banks
hesitate to honor checks given to third persons, would
precipitate bankruptcy and so interfere with the course
of business as to produce evils of serious and far-reaching
consequence.
AfCirnXd.
VOL. CCXX ix-34

