CAMPBELL v. NORTI1WLST ECKINGTON CO.
229 U. S.

561

Syllabus.

CAMPBELL v. NORTHWEST ECKINGTON

IM-

PROVEMENT COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 251.

Argued April 23, 24, 1913.-Decided June 9, 1913.

A deed for an undivided interest in unimproved reql estate heavily
encumbered given to a third party in pursuance cf prior agreements
to undertake to aid in the financial and practical development of
the-property held to have been given for the undertaking and not
for the performance and to have presently vested the grantee with
t.e interest conveyed absolutely as stated on its face and not by
way of security only.
The burden is on the complainant seeking to give a different elTect to a
deed than that of its face and where the bill does not waive an
answer under oath, and defendant does answer under oath, weight
must be given to the answer. Vigil v. Hopp, 104 U. S. 441.
To justify the setting aside of a solemn instrument of conveyance deliberately made by parties sui juris and giving it an effect different
from its,plain purport, the evidence should be clear, unequivocal and
convincing. Maxwell Land Grant Case, 121 U. S. 325, 381.
An agreement to give skill and experience as a builder and contractor
does not necessarily imply that he is to personally act as superintendent a construction; nor, under the circumstances of this case,
should his accounts be surcharged with the amounts paid for wages
to a superintendent employed by him.
One, who under an agreement is to be reimbursed for his outlay, shculd
keep proper account of his receipts and disbursements and preserve
the vouchers therefor.
36 App. D. C. 149, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of contractsrelating to, and rights of co-adventurers in, a real estate
enterprise in the District of Columbia, are stated in the
opinion.
VOL. ccxxix-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Mr. John Ridout for appellant.
Mr. Holmes Conrad,for appellees, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This appeal brings under review a decree of the Court
of Appeals affirming a decree of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia that declared a deed of conveyance, absolute on its face, made by the Northwest
Eckington Improvement Company to Charles M. Campbell, to have been intended only to secure to Campbell
his share of the profits of an enterprise previously undertaken by the parties to the action for the development
of the lands described in the deed. The decree also canceled the contracts between the parties respecting the
enterprise, settled an account between them, decreed that
Campbell should pay a certain sum found due from him
on balance, required him to reconvey the land, and granted
incidental relief. The decree thus affirmed was rendered
pursuant to the mandate of the Court of Appeals upon
the reversal of a former decree which was in Campbell's
favor. The successive decisions, so far as reported, are
to be found in 28 App. D. C. 483 (35 Wash. Law. Rep.
62); 38 Wash. Law Rep. 79; 36 App. D. C. 149 (39 Wash.
Law Rep. 69).
The present appellant assails the decree in respect of
its main features, and also in respect of the principle
adopted in the accounting. A somewhat particular recital of the facts in evidence, with the grounds of decision
in the courts below, seems to be called for.
In the year 1902, The Eckington Company held the
legal title to a tract of land lying in a suburb of Washington, containing about ten and a half acres. The appellees,
Daniel and Redman, were the owners and holders of
practically all the stock in the company, and had entire

CAMPBELL v. NORTHWEST ECKINGTON CO.
229 U. S.

563

Opinion of the Court.

charge of its affairg. Redman was President, and Daniel,
Secretary; Daniel, with Redman's assent, represented the
latter, and also the company, in the various transactions
out of which the controversy arises. The property was unimproved and unproductive, and its value problematical.
It was encumbered with a deed of trust, held by a Mrs.
Franz, given to secure promissory notes of Daniel, upon
which approximately $32,000 were due. Interest and
taxes were in arrears. In the early part of the year negotiations took place between Daniel and Redman, on
the one hand, and Campbell, the appellant, on the other,
with the object of interesting Campbell, who was a builder
and a manager of real estate developments, and as a result
a written agreement was made between them, of which
the following is a copy:
VASHINGTON, D. C. March 13, 1902.
Whereas T. C. Daniel and S. C. Redman, of Washington, D. C., acting for themselves and the Northwest
Eckington Improvement Co., of the District of Columbia,
a corporation incorporated under the laws of the State
of Virginia, are owners of a certain tract of land in northwest Eckington subject to trust interest and taxes fully
described by the plats and printed matter of the above
Company, consisting of ten and a half acres more or less,
desire to dispose of the same, they hereby agree with
C. M. Campbell, of Washington, D. C., in consideration
of one dollar in hand paid by him, and other valuable
consideration, that if he will organize or be instrumental
in organizing a company, even with the assistance of
T. C. Daniel or others, for the purchase of said ground,
and give the necessary time and attention to that end,
they agree, in case his plans wvork out so that they accept
the consideration said Gompany offers for said ground,
to give him a third of the amount they receive, whether
of money, stock or property, and that in the event of
such sale or disposition of said property he is to become

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

possessed of an undivided one-third interest in the property. In case less than the whole tract is sold then said
Campbell is to become possessed of an undivided onethird interest in the amount sold.
Northwest Eckington Improvement Co. [Seal.]
T. CUSHING DANIEL. [SEAL.]
SAMUEL C.

REDMAN.

C. M. CAMPBELL.
Approved and accepted.

[SEAL.]

[SEAL.]

NORTHWEST ECKINGTON IMPROVEMENT Co.
S. C. REDMAN,

Prest.

T. C.

DANIEL, SCC."

Pursuant to this agreement, Campbell caused a corporation to be formed, with the title of "Washington
Sanitary Dwellings Company," and endeavored to sell
enough of its stock to provide for taking over the property
and constructing sanitary dwellings thereon for workingmen and their families.
Mrs. Franz was pressing for money, and, in order to
satisfy her, Campbell agreed to pay her, and did pay her,
$500 on account of the amount due upon the deed of trust,
and at the same time a memorandum was signed, of which
the following is a copy:
WASHINGTON, D. C., June 19th, 1902.
Whereas a certain agreement was entered into March 13,'
,1902, between T. Cushing Daniel, S. C. Redman and C. M.
Campbell, which agreement was accepted by the Northwest Eckington Improvement Co., now this further memorandum witnesseth: That the Company which said
Campbell agreed to organize, as stipulated in said agreement, has been organized to our satisfaction; that the deed
conveying said property to said Company has been prepared and properly executed and that the five hundred
dollars which said Campbell this day advances to meet
the requirements of the holder of the deed of trust on said
property, is done upon acceptance of the above facts. Said
transfer will be made upon the terms of acceptance noted

CAMPBELL v. NORTHWEST ECKINGTON CO.

565

Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

in the minutes of the Sanitary Dwellings Co., which are
accepted. Any monies advanced by said Campbell in handling the property in question shall be returned returned to
him out of first sales.
And all rights of said Campbell under said agreement of
March 13, 1902, shall remain unimpaired.
[SEAL.]

T. C.

[SEAL.]

C.

M.

DANIEL,
CAMPBELL.

NORTHWEST ECKINGTCN IMPROVEMENT
COMPANY,
,President. T. C. DANIEL, Sec'r."

According to Campbell's testimony-undisputed so far
as we have observed-the clause italicized was inserted
by Daniel in his own handwriting in order to emphasize
the assurance that Campbell was to have rights prior to
the others to the extent of reimbursement of his advances.
The paper was not signed by Redman, nor formally by
the company-a matter that is of no present consequence
in view of its subsequent recognition.
Besides the $500 paid to Mrs. Franz, Campbell paid
out in June $122.91 for taxes upon the property, and during the spring and summer incurred expenses aggregating
$481.81 in organizing and' promoting the Washington
Sanitary Dwellings Company. Daniel himself, called as
a witness for the complainants, testified upon the subject
as follows: "Mr. Campbell worked on the sale of stock
in the company; employed others to assist him in placing
the stock, but after finding that he could not make it a
success he admitted the same to me and asked whether
something could not be done to save the $1,000 that he
had spent in that effort; we then agreed to abandon the
Sanitary Dwellings enterprise." After some discussion
the parties, under date of October 23, 1902, entered into a
further agreement in writing of which the following is a
copy:
"Whereas a contract was entered into March 13, 1902,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

between T. C. Daniel and S. C. Redman and the Northwest Eckington Improvement Co., a corporation, and
C. M. Campbell, stipulating for the services of said Campbell, it is further agreed, while preserving to said Campbell
any rights he may have under said contract, as follows:
"1. In consideration of the services of said Campbell
has already performed and for the purpose of securing his
further services and co-operation in the handling and
improvement of said property, it is agreed to make certain
extension of the provisions of said contract.
"2. It is now decided to release the Sanitary Dwellings
Company, if necessary, from any obligations, it may have
assumed in regard to any agreement to purchase said
property.
"3. The said Daniel, Redman and the Northwest
Eckington Improvement Company have decided to improve and market said property, as fast as may be possible, by building houses thereon.
"4. To this end they desire to utilize the skill of said
Campbell as a builder and his assistance financially.
"5. It is agreed by said Daniel, Redman and the
Northwest Eckington Improv-ement Company to employ
said Campbell as a skilful builder in the erection of said
houses, he to take charge of said work, with such assistance
as the other parties to this contract may be able to furnish,
and pursue such work industriously and with all the ability
and skill he can bring to the work.
"6. In the borrowing of the money that may be needed
in developing said enterprise he is to use his credit by
joining the other parties to this contract in the making or
endorsing of any notes that may be required in negotiating
the necessary loans for the making of said improvements
and in paying off the loan of $32,000 now due on said property. In doing this account is to be taken of all moneys
and interest he has already advanced under contracts in

CAMPBELL v. NORTHWEST ECKINGTON CO. 567
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

relation to said property already entered into between the
parties hereto. And any sums advanced or to be advanced
by any of said parties for the same purpose under said
agreements is likewise to be accounted for.
"7. It is proposed to erect at once five houses on said
property and follow them with others as soon as such a
course is warranted by the results and approved by the
judgment of the parties to this agreement, said Campbell
to industriously push said improvements with his best
skill and ability, as provided in paragraph 5 herein, without any further compensation for his services than are
provided for herein.
"8. In return for said undertaking on said Campbell's
part he is to become possessed of an undivided one-third
interest in said property.
Witness our hands and seals this 23rd day of October,
1902.
NORTHWEST ECKINGTON IMPROVEMENT CO.,
By SAMUEL C. IREDMAN, Pres.
THos. C. DANIEL, Sec'y.
SAMUEL C. REDMAN.

T. C. DANIEL.
C. M. CAMPBELL."
The execution of this instrument, at least by the Eckington Company, appears to have been deferred until the
latter part of the month of November, awaiting its approval by a stockholders' meeting. Shortly afterwards,
and in order to carry out the provisions of the seventh
paragraph, an agreement in writing was made under date
December 2d between the individuals Daniel, Redman,
and Campbell, of the one part, and Mrs. Franz, of the
other, whereby the amount due upon the promissory notes
o Daniel secured by her deed of trust was ascertained at
$32,938.66; she agreed to release a plot sufficient for five
houses on payment of a specified consideration, to be
credited as part payment upon the notes; they agreed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinicn of the Court;

229 U. S.

erect five substantial brick dwellings, to cost not less than
$3,000 each, and pay off the taxes on the entire property;
and they (including Campbell, who was not until then
personally responsible to Mrs. Franz), guaranteed the
payment of the balance remaining due upon the promissory notes, when and as they should respectively become
due; but it Was agreed that upon the making of the part
payment provided for, the time for payment of the balance
was to be extended for two years.
Pursuant to this, the plot upon which the five houses
were to be built was released by Mrs. Franz from the deed
of trust, and conveyed by the Eckingtofi Company to
Daniel, Redman and Campbell as individuals, and they
placed upon it a new mortgage for the amount of $12,500,
paying a partof this money to Mrs. Franz as consideration for her release, and placing the residue of the loan at
the disposal of Campbell, to be used in the construction
of the houses.
Under the agreement with Mrs. Franz, Campbell found
it necessary to pay $957.55 for the taxes upon the entire
property, and this he paid from his own funds on December 8. This, with some small items that need not be
specified, added to his expenditures prior to October 23,
already mentioned ($500 to Mrs. Franz, $122.91 for taxes,
and $481.81 advanced on behalf of the Sanitary Dwellings
Company enterprise), made an aggregate of $2,094.62.
Campbell became uneasy respecting his position in the
matter, and an agreement was drawn up by his counsel,
bearing date December 10, 1902, for execution by the
Eckington Company, and by Daniel, Redman, and Campbell as individuals, and was tendered by Campbell to
Daniel for the purpose; which paper, after a preamble that
recited the agreement of October 23d, contained a repetition of the provisions of that agreement, with the addition
of several clauses, by one of which "The Eckington Company agrees to execute at once a conveyance of said un-

CAMPBELL v. NORTHWEST ECKINGTON CO. 569
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

divided one-third interest to said Charles M. Campbell in
fee simple."
This instrument was never executed, and, after some
further discussion, the deed in question was prepared
and presented by Campbell to Daniel. The latter testified: "He [Campbell] said that Mr. Ridout had drawn
that contract up for him, and he did not see any reason
why we should not sign. I read it over pretty carefully,
and when I saw that it was a deed for a one-third undivided
interest, I knew or thought that it tied Mr. Campbell to
the proposition so that he could not get any way of deeding
that third interest away until he had earned it by the carrying out of his contract, and, thinking it over, it seemed
to me that it would be a rather reasonable request, if he
was going to put in a great deal of money to build up that
entire property, and I thought he should have insisted
upon some security on the record; I think I would have
insisted upon something like that myself, and it was a
business proposition, and I submitted it to Mr. Redman
and told him I did not think there was anything wrong
about it-(interrupted)-I told Mr. Campbell after thinking it over, I would be perfectly willing to execute that as
At that time I
.
security to him, to protect him.
believed that he was going to carry out the contract, and
it would be all satisfactory."
The deed was actualy executed and delivered on January 16, 1903, and thereby the Northwest Eckington Improvement Company, for "divers valuable considerations,
and the sum of ten dollars," conveyed to Campbell, his
heirs and assigns, an undivided one-third interest in the
property in question, excepting the portions theretofore
conveyed. It contained a special warranty excepting
recorded encumbrances.
Before the first five houses were completed, and in the
spring of 1903, the parties proceeded with the construction
of another row of five houses under an arrangement similar

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S,

to the former one, including a building loan to pay the
cost of construction, the proceeds (over and above the
amount necessary to procure the release from the deed
of trust) being placed in Campbell's hands. While matters
were thus progressing, and when the first five houses were
nearly or quite completed, the opportunity was offered
to dispose of a considerable plot of the unimproved land
to one Malnati, and the sale was made in November, 1903,
and consummated during the following month, at the
price of $15,200; a price evidently deemed highly favorable by the owners. Of the proceeds, $6,000 were paid on
the Franz mortgage and the taxes. Before the sale was
consummated Campbell demanded that out of the balance
he should be paid a sum approximating $4,000 for what
was due to him for advances on the joint account, including the $2,094.62 that he had expended prior to the making
of the deed and the excess cost of the ten houses to date,
over and above the proceeds of the building loans. Campbell's position seems to have been that the agreement
expressed in the memorandum of June 19, 1902, to the
effect that all moneys advanced by him in handling the
property should be returned to him out of the first sales,
was still in force; and that as the sale to Malnati was the
first sale, he was entitled to be reimbursed out of the
proceeds in order to put him upon an equality with the
others, who had advanced nothing or practically nothing.
Daniel resisted Campbell's demand, his view being that
the June memorandum was superseded in this respect' by
the sixth clause of the October agreement, and that while
"account was to be taken" of Campbell's advances, they
were not to be returned to him out of the first sales.
Daniel asked Campbell for an accounting and an informal
account was rendered, to which Daniel made objections
on:the ground that it was unaccompanied with vouchers;
and an arrangement was made whereby- $4,000 of the
proceeds of the sale to Malnati were left in the hands of

CAMPBELL v. NORTHWEST ECKINGTON CO. 571
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a third party to await the settlement of the controversy,
and the balance was divided, one-third to Campbell and
the remainder to the Eckington Company.
The controversy continued, however, with increasing
acrimony until February 8, 1904, when the appellees filed
in the Supreme Court of the District their present bill in
equity against Campbell, setting up the history of the
above transactions from their standpoint, and asserting
that the deed of January 16, 1903, was given not as "an
absolute conveyance, but by way of security. The bill
further alleged that he had failed to perform his obligations under the contract of October 23, 1902, had involved
the complainants in debt, refused to inform them as to
the cost of buildings, or in any satisfactory manner to
account for the large sums of money placed at his disposal
for the building operations, and threatened to embarrass
complainants in making any disposition whatever of the
property, etc. The prayer was that Campbell be required
to account; that all contracts between the parties be
canceled; and that he be required to reconvey to the Improvement Company the undivided third interest conveyed to him by that company.
Campbell answered under oath, denying that the conveyance was intended as security, and averring that the
complainants had recognized his right to such a conveyance, and that it was made to convey absolute title to
him in consideration of his undertakings, set out in the
agreement of October 23, 1902, and the other agreements
between the parties.
Voluminous testimony was taken on both sides, the
essence of which we have endeavored to state, and the cause
was brought on to a hearing before the Supreme Court.
That court, by Mr. Justice Anderson, delivered an opinion
reviewing the history of the transactions, the successive
written agreements between the parties, and the evidence
respecting various items of disbursement claimed to have

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

been made by Campbell, and claimed'by the complainants
not to have been satisfactorily accounted for by him.
Upon the principal issue the view of the court was expressed as follows:
"Coming now to the specific question whether the deed
to Campbell was intended to be absolute or merely as
security, there are but two witnesses testifying about it.
One is Daniel, who says that it was understood to be only
as security, and that thereafter in July 1903 Campbell for
the second time presented the proposed contract of
Dec. 10, 1902, providing for a conveyance to him of an undivided third interest in fee simple, and said that his
attorney advised that it be executed. The other is Campbell, who says that the deed was intended to be absolute,
and that the proposed agreement of Dec. 10, 1902, was
never presented to Daniel after the execution of the deed.
In this state of the case, it may be inquired what light the
circumstances of the case throw upon this question; but
such inquiry would seem rather to bear out, if anything,
the position of Campbell than that of Daniel. Campbell
and the other parties went into the joint enterprise to
endeavor by their conjoint efforts to make something out
of a piece of property which was heavily encumbered and
becoming more and more encumbered every day, because
it could not take care of the fixed charges upon it continually arising. They all recognized that something
might be made out of the property, if diligent effort was
made to develop it, but the hope of making anything out
of it seemed to reside more in diligent efforts to be made
than in the property itself. Accordingly, the joint enterprise was undertaken. They all joined together, Campbell being joined because of his skill as a builder in addition
to his general business ability and the assistance which
he might give, together with the others, in the way of
making and endorsing notes; and the other parties being
joined to contribute to the enterprise the property which

CAMPBELL v. NORTHWEST ECKINGTON CO.
229 U. S.

573

Opinion of the Court.

it was sought to so develop as to make it a success, instead
of the failure which it had theretofore been, as also to contribute their general business ability. In such an arrangement it certainly was not unreasonable to give Campbell
a status as the owner of an undivided interest in the enterprise. On the contrary, it would have been rather unusual
and unreasonable to treat him in any other manner, because he was, by virtue of the contract, made a sharer in
the failure as well as in the success of the enterprise. He
stood to lose as well as to gain, and in the event of loss,
nothing whatever could be reaped by him for his contribution of skill and money.
"But even if the circumstances in the case could be
construed as in some manner tending to support the position of the complainants, certainly it could not be said
that they are of a strength equal to the testimony of a
witness, which would be required in order to establish the
complainants' position, they not having waived by their
bill answer under oath, and the defendant having answered
under oath. Vigel v. Hopp, 104 U. S. 441."
The court therefore held that the prayers of the bill
asking that the deed to Campbell be declared to be a
security merely, and that the conttacts be canceled, should
be denied; and that the cause should be referred to the
Auditor for a full accounting respecting the affairs of the
joint enterprise, including that portion relating to the
Sanitary Dwellings Company. A decree was entered
accordingly, bearing date January 4, 1906.
The complainants appealed, and the Court of Appeals
(28 App. D. C. 483) held that the deed of January 16,
1903, was not absolute, but intended merely as security
for Campbell in the event of his performance of the agreement of October 23, 1902. The decree of the Supreme
Court, so far as it denied the prayers for a cancellation of
the agreements and a recon-veyance from the defendant,
was reversed, and the cause remanded with direction to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

enter a decree declaring the true intent and purpose of
the deed of January 16, 1903, to be as indicated in the
opinion of the Court of Appeals.
That court, while conceding the evidential weight of
Campbell's sworn answer, under the rule laid down in
Vigel v. Hopp, 104 U. S. 441, differed from Mr. Justice
Anderson in his view of the circumstances surrounding
the transaction under inquiry. The liberal terms conceded to Campbell in the agreement of March 13, 1902,
were attributed to the fact that the complainants were
then apprehensive of the foreclosure of the mortgage upon
the land. The view was expressed that the condition of
the property had greatly improved during the succeeding
months, on account of certain railroad developments; that
the parties were agreed as to the reasonable prospect of
building houses thereon and securing income therefrom;
that it was apparent the cash value of the land had advanced considerably beyond the amount of the Franz
mortgage, and apprehension of its loss by foreclosure was
greatly if not entirely relieved; that Campbell submitted
estimates for the erection of as many as forty houses,
and the probable income therefrom, as indicating successful development in that way; and the parties then entered
into the contract of October 23, 1902. The opinion proceeds (28 App. D. C. 494):
"The legal effect of this contract was to make the complainants partners with Campbell in the development of
the land by building houses; they furnishing the land and
Campbell undertaking the erection of the houses. All
were to join in using their credit in obtaining money to
erect houses, and pay off the $32,000 encumbrance; and
the sums advanced by the respective parties were to be
accounted for. Five houses were to be erected at once,
to be followed by others if results were approved. The
last paragraph of the agreement was that 'in return for
"aid undertaking on said Campbell's part he is to become

CAMPBELL v. NORTHWEST ECKINGTON CO. 575
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

possessed of an undivided one-third interest in said property.' Clearly this did not contemplate that Campbell
should at once become the absolute owner of this one-third
of the land. It was necessarily conditioned upon the
terms of his undertaking, before recited in the contract.
He had no immediate right to demand a conveyance thereunder, and none when the deed was actually executed
and delivered to him on January 16, 1903. Complainants
contended that this deed was made, at Campbell's request,
to secure him in his rights under the contract."
And again (p. 496):
"When the deed was executed, on January 16, 1903, it
is not pretended that there was any new consideration for
its execution. It was founded wholly upon the provisions
of the contract of October 23, 1902, no matter what may
have been the private opinion of the respective parties as
to Campbell's rights thereunder; and its meaning, purpose,
and effect are determined thereby.
"The difficulty attending the correction of a deed or
instrument carrying into effect a previous parol agreement
is obviated when it appears to have been prepared and
executed in pursuance of a written agreement. When it
appears that the instrument intended to give effect to a
written agreement is inconsistent with its terms there is a
manifest equity to correct the error. Adams, Eq. 169;
Elliot v. Sackett, 108 U. S. 132, 141.
"As before stated, there is nothing which tends to show
that Campbell was to become the absolute owner of onethird of the complainants' land without regard to the performance of the joint undertaking contemplated in the
contract of October 23, 1902. It is true that contract is
inartificial and somewhat vague, but no such meaning can
be imputed to it.
"In the light of the circumstances pointed out, we can
come to no other conclusion than that complainants'
statement of the purposes of this deed is the correct one.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

They represent it as given to secure Campbell in their
performance of the contract. It was not a security, or an
additional security, in the ordinary sense, but it did make
Campbell secure, in the case of his endeavor to carry out
that contract, by giving him at once the conveyance that
he might thereafter become entitled to, and enabling him,
by its registration, to give notice of his rights under the
contract, to all persons who might thereafter acquire any
interest from the complainants.
"The decree, in so far as this conveyance is concerned,
is interlocutory in its nature, and for the guidance of the
auditor in stating the account between the parties, and,
instead of virtually establishing it as an absolute deed,
should have declared it to be merely a conditional one
dependent upon the performance of the agreement in
accordance with which it was made. The question
whether it shall be canceled is a final one that can only
be properly determined upon the coming in of the auditor's
report with the account that has been ordered to be taken
by him."
Upon the going down of the mandate, the Supreme
Court entered an interlocutory decree in accordance with
it, and thereafter the hearing before the Auditor proceeded; but the accounting was made, or at least attempted
to be made, not upon the original theory of a joint ownership in the property, but upon a theory of the rights of
the parties under the agreement of October 23, 1902, that
resulted from the decision of the Court of Appeals.
The Auditor stated an account charging the defendant
with his actual receipts from the proceeds of the building
loans, and from other sources connected with the enterprise, and giving him credit for his expenditures for construction and payments made to the complainants. An
elaborate report was made, to which exceptions were filed
by the complainants, and these the Supreme Court sustained in part and overruled in part, reserving certain of

CAMPBELL v. NORTHWEST ECKINGTON CO.
229 U. S.

577

Opinion of the Court.

the questions for disposition on the final hearing, and
meanwhile ordering the Auditor to restate the account,
which was done, and to this second report both parties
took exceptions.
The case then came on for final hearing before the Supreme Court upon the whole record, including the pleadings, the evidence, and the exceptions. Respecting the
disputed matters in the accounting, we need say no more
than that the court sustained Campbell's right to credit
for the $500 paid by him to Mrs. Franz in June, 1902, and
$122.91 paid about the same time for taxes, but overruled
his claim for an allowance of the $481.81 paid on account
of the Sanitary Dwellings Company, upon the ground
that this expenditure was made for his own account and
at his own risk, and had not benefited the common enterprise.
Upon the main questions the court (38 Wash. Law Rep.
79), following the lines laid down in the opinion of the
Court of Appeals, held as follows:
(1) That the deed of January 16, 1903, was not intended to convey a present absolute title, but was only
to secure the defendant his share of the profits of the
enterprise when he should perform his share of the work of
building houses and making sales; and that to the extent
that he had performed his contract obligations, the security should be kept intact;
(2) That as to the ten houses and the land on which
they stood, the defendant had an undivided one-third
interest under the two deeds executed to him and to the
complainants Daniel and Redman, that title being absolute, subject to encumbrances;
(3) That the contracts which were executed between
the parties plaintiff and defendant ought to be canceled,
because there was no prospect of any amicable continuation of operations under them, even if there were any desire by either party to continue;
VOL. ccxxix---37

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

(4) That the defendant should reconvey to the Eckington Company the title received from it by the deed of
January 16, 1903, on being paid or satisfactorily secured
what, if anything, remained due to him on settlement of
accounts on the lines previously indicated;
(5) That if the defendant had become bound to pay
any portion of the encumbrance on the unimproved land
held by Mrs. Franz, the complainants should either obtain
his release therefrom or indemnify him against the same.
This result was carried into the. final decree, with a variance that is unexplained by anything in the opinions, or
elsewhere in the record, so far as we have observed, viz.,
the decree subjects Campbell's interest in the ten houses
to a charge in favor of Daniel and Redman of $1,237.65,
"being the balance due by him on his one-third of the
excess cost of building said houses and obtaining a release of the said ten lots from a mortgage or deed of trust
thereon known as the Franz mortgage or deed of trust,
over and above the money obtained for this purpose by'
loans secured by Daniel, Redman and Campbell." Perhaps it was intended to charge Campbell's interest in the
ten houses, "infavor of his co-tenants, with a sum found
to be due upon the theory of accounting that resulted
from the decision of the Court of Appeals.
The defendant Campbell appealed to the Court of Appeals, where the decree was affirmed, the court adhering
(36 App. D. C. 149) to its former view. As to the item of
$481.81, the court expressed concurrence with the view
of the Supreme Court, saying: "This item benefited the
complainants in no way, and we do not think its repayment was contemplated by the October contract."
Upon' the main question, the court treating the deed of
January 16, 1903, as given only to secure Campbell for his
share of the profits when he should perform his part of the
agreement, proceeded to consider the question of his conduct after the making of the deed. The court found him

CAMPBELL v. NORTHWEST ECKINGTON CO.
229 U. S.

579

Opinion of the Court.

at fault, because he stopped when ten houses were constructed, although the income upon them was not sufficient
to liquidate the fixed charges upon the balance of the property., It was in effect held that he was at fault in employing a superintendent of construction, and in 'failing to
keep careful accounts of receipts and expenditures, and

preserve all vouchers. His conduct in demanding reimbursement of the moneys he had advanced, and a third of
the net proceeds, upon the sale to Malnati, "although
under his contract he was fully protected," was characterized as arbitrary, as was his receipt of one-third of the
balance, "when that sum, as he was informed and had
every reason to know, was needed to develop the remaining land." His conduct after the Malnati sale was likewise criticised, and the opinion concludes (36 App. D. C.
158):
"From a careful examination of the entire record, we
are forced to the conclusion that the decree was right.
It is difficult to perceive wherein the defendant has been
injured. He was to receive a one-third interest in 'ertain
property upon the theory of services performed in the
improvement and sale of that property. To the extent
that he has performed the obligation imposed upon him
by the contract, his interests have been fully protected by
the decree: more he has no right to expect, and more a
court of equity certainly ought not to award him."
From our examination of the record, we are constrained
to the view that the Court of Appeals erred in adjudging
that the deed in question was given as security merely,
and not as an absolute conveyance. The court coneedcd
that the burden was upon the complainants to prove that
this instrument did not express the intention of the parties
at the time, and that if the general rule laid down by this
court in Vigel v. Hopp, 104 U. S. 441, were applicable,
the bill must in that respect be dismissed. The opposite
conclusion was reached in view of the circumstancs

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

surrounding the transaction, and because of the construction that the learned c6urt placed upon the contract of
October 23, 1902.
We place a different construction upon that contract,
and also take a different view of the circumstances under
which it was made. Avoiding repetition so far as possible,
our view may be expressed as follows:
We agree that the legal effect of this contract was to
make the complainants in effect partners with Campbell
in the development of the land by building houses, they
furnishing the land and he undertaking the erection of
the houses. But it seems to us that the agreement recognized that the joint enterprise had commenced in March
and had continued ever since; and that Campbell was not
only entitled to consideration for the services he had
"already performed"-that is, for what he had done Under
the March agreement-but was entitled to reimbursement for whatever money he had advanced, with interest
on those moneys.
The March agreement shows upon its face (and all
the circumstances corroborate this) that the prime object
of the parties was to dispose of the property, and that the
particular method of disposing of it was not of the essence
of the matter. This is plain from the language--" That
if he [Campbell] will organize or be instrumental in organizing a company, even with the assistance of T. C. Daniel
or others, for the purchase of said ground, and give the
necessary time and attention to that end, they agree,
in case his plans work out so that they accept the consideration said company offers for said ground, to give him a
third of the amount they receive, whether of money,
stock, or property, and that in the event of such sale or
disposition of said property he is to become possessed
of tn undivided one-third interest in the property. In
case les-s than the whole tract is sold then said Campbell
is to become possessed of an undivided one-third interest

CAMPBELL v. NORTHWEST ECKINGTON CO.
229 U. S.

581

Opinion of the Court.

in the amount sold." This agreement is inartificially
expressed, and requires construction. It was hardly
intended that Campbell should have one-third of the
consideration received by the vendors, and also an undivided one-third interest in the property. Neither did
it mean that in case less than the whole tract should be
sold he was to become possessed of an undivided onethird interest in the land sold. What it meant was, that
he should have, directly or indirectly, one-third interest
in the proceeds of the property. In short, he was to be a
"partner" in the enterprise.
The court seems to have considered that this agreement virtually expired with the failure of the scheme for
financing the Sanitary Dwelling Company. - We do not
so regard it. The conduct of the parties from March
until October, the wording of the memorandum of June
19th, the negotiations leading up to the abandonment
of the Sanitary Dwellings Company scheme, and the
making of the October agreement instead-one of the
inducements to which, according to complainants' uncontradicted evidence, was to enable Campbell to recoup
the money he had expended on the Sanitary Dwellings
Company-and finally the language of the October
agreement, all go to show that the main purpose, and the
association of the parties to accomplish it, were never
abandoned.
We do not think this agreement can be properly considered as foreclosing all rights that Campbell had under
previous agreements, saving as expressly reserved. By
its terms, after reciting the contract of March 13, it declared: "It is further agreed, while preserving to said
Campbell any rights he may have under said contract,
as follows: 1. In consideration of the services said Campbell has already performed, and for the purpose of securing
his further services and cooperation in the handling and
improvement of said property it is agreed to make cer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court,

229 U. S.

tain extension of the provisions of said contract." Then
follow the clause providing for a release of the Sanitary
Dwellings Company; the recital of the purpose to improve
and market the property as fast as possible by building
houses upon it, the desire to utilize the skill of Campbell
as a builder, and his assistance financially, the agreement that he is to "take charge of said work, with such
assistance as the other parties may be able to furnish;"
that in borrowing the money needed for developing the
enterprise he is to use his credit by joining with the
other parties in making notes, etc., for the necessary
loans; and that "in doing this, account is to be taken of
all moneys and interest he has already advanced under contracts in relation to said property already entered into between the parties hereto. And any sums advanced or to be
advanced by any of said parties for the same purpose
under said agreements is likewise to be accounted for."
The seventh clause is: "It is proposed to erect at once
five houses on said property and follow them with others
as soon as such a course is warranted by the results and
approved by the judgment of the parties to this agreement, said Campbell to industriously push said improvements, etc., without further compensation for his services
than are provided for herein." And 8: "In returnfor said
undertaking on said Campbell's part he is to become possessed
of an undivided one-third interest in said property."
The agreement reads plainly that Campbell was to have
this interest in the property, not for performance, but for
his undertaking. In short, as we think, he was to be
presently vested with a one-third interest in the equity
of the property, and to be thereby put upon an equal
footing with Daniel and Redman,. who through their
stock interest in the Eckington Company would be
entitled to a two-third's interest.
The view adopted by the court below would leave
Campbell's position-he being the only one of the party

CAMPBELL v. NORTHWEST ECKINGTON CO.
229 U. S.

583

Opinion of the Court.

able and willing to advance cash for the development
of the enterprise-altogether precarious. It was in contemplation that the expenditures made by him should be
made for the common benefit, and that the property would
be enhanced in value if the eniterprise proved successful.
And it seems most improbable that he should be willing
to devote his time and experience, and also pledge his
credit to the extent necessary to pay off the existing loan
of $32,000, and whatever more was needed to put up the
houses, and await a successful outcome before being
assured of his reward.
Besides, the undertaking would not be fully completed
until the property had been marketed; that is, had passed
into the hands of third parties. How could he then
"'become possessed" of an undivided one-third interest
in it?
It is not strange that Campbell very shortly found that
his position was insecure without a deed that should
vest in him the legal title to the undivided one-third.
Shortly after the execution of the agreement of October
23d, he began to insist that his rights under it should be
secured to him. The proposed agreement of December 10,
1902, was submitted and rejected. Afterwards, and in
response to his insistent demands, the deed in question
was made and delivered to him in January. For a sufficient consideration, it is not necessary to look beyond
the situation evidenced by the agreement of October 23d;
for it seems to us that the act of the parties in making the
deed is clearly in accord with the viewwe take of that
contract, and amounted to a practical interpretation of
it; the purpose in making the dcod being to simply put
into legal form what equity would perhaps have required
to be done for carrying that contract into effect.
If we need to look elsewhere for the intent of the parties,
then in addition to the rule respecting the weight that
shall be given to a sworn answer in Chancery, invoked

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

and relied upon in Vigel v. Hopp, 104 U. S. 441, and in
numerous other cases-Union R. R. Co. v. Dull, 124
U. S. 173, 175; Southern Development Co. v. Silva, 125 U. S.
247, 249; Beals v. Illinois &c. R. R. Co., 133 U. S. 290,
295; Monroe Cattle Co. v. Becker, 147 U. S. 47, 54-this
case is a proper one for the application of the well-known
principle that to justify the setting aside of a solemn
instrument of conveyance, deliberately made by parties
sui juris, and the giving to it of an effect different from its
plain purport, the evidence should be clear, unequivocal,
and convincing. Maxwell Land-Grant Case, 121 U. S.
325, 381. The evidence of the complainants does not,
we think, measure up to the standard.
The result of these views is that the decree, in so far as
it sets aside the deed of January 16, 1903, as being merely
conditional and dependent upon performance by Campbell of the agreement of October 23, 1902, should be reversed, because the deed must be held to be, what it
purports to be, an absolute conveyance.
For the same reasons the decree, so far as it cancels
the contracts cf March 13, 1902, and of October 23, 1902,
should be reversed.
The original prayer of the complainants for an accounting should be sustained; but the accounting should
be made upon the basis of the agreement; Campbell and
the others being treated as quasi-partners respecting the
improvement and marketing of, the property in question from the making of the agreement of March 13, 1902.
He should be charged with all moneys received by him
as proceeds of loans or otherwise, and, on the other hand
should be credited, with whatever he has fairly and properly
expended for the common enterprise, whether the particular expenditure can be shown to have ultimately
profited the enterprise or not. This includes the $481.81
disbursed on account of the Sanitary Dwellings Company,
and other expenditures made under the agreement of

CAMPBELL v. NORTHWEST ECKINGTON CO.
229 U. S.

585

Opinion .of the Court.

March 13, 1902; his right thereto being preserved by the
contract of October 23d, as moneys "'advanced under
contracts in relation to said property already entered
into between the parties hereto;" and, under the same
clause, he is entitled to interest upon his advances.
We need not pass upon other questions raised respecting the accounting, except to say that we of course do
not agree with the view expressed by the Court of Appeals
respecting the conduct of Campbell subsequent to the
making of the deed. The court deemed that in employing a superintendent of construction he violated the letter
or spirit of the contract of October 23d. That agreement
contemplated that his skill as a builder, and his assistance generally, should be utilized, and he was to take
charge of the work, with such assistance as the other
parties might be able to furnish. It does not necessarily
follow that he was personally to fill the place of superIt is of course true that
intendent of construction.
Campbell ought to have kept a proper account of his receipts and disbursements, and so far as he failed to do this
or to preserve proper vouchers, the matter may be dealt
with on the accounting according to the usual principles.
The decree of the Court of Appeals reversed, with costs in
this court and costs of both appeals in the Court of Appeals; and the cause remanded with directions to reinstate
and afflirm the decree of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia bearingdate January4, 1906, and to reverse
and set aside all subsequent decrees so far as inconsistent therewith, and remad the cause to said Supreme
Court with, directions to proceed to an accounting
between the parties, or a revision of the accounting
already had in that court, andfurther proceedingsthereon
as equity may require, and in accordancewith the views
above expressed.

