CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

BAUER & CIE v. O'DONNELL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 951.

Argued April 10, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

The right to make, use and sell an invented article existed without,
and before, the passage of the patent law; the act secured to the
inventor the exclusive right to make, use and vend the thing patented.
While the patent ' law should be fairly and liberally construed to effect
the purpose of Congress to encourage useful invention, the rights
and privileges which it bestows should not be extended by judicial
construction beyond what Congress intended.
In framing the patent act and defining the rights and privileges of patentees thereunder Congress did not use technical or occult phrases,
but in simple terms gave the patentee the exclusive right to make,
use and vend his invention for a definite term of years.
A patentee may not by notice limit the price at which future retail
sales of the patented article may be made, such article being in the
hands of a retailer by purchase from a jobber who has paid to the
agent of the patentee the full price asked for the article sold. Henry
v. Dick Cc,, 224 U. S. 1, distinguished.
The patent law differs from the copyright law in that it not only confers the right to make and sell, but also the exclusive right to use the
subject-matter of the patent.
VOL. CCXXIX-1
(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiffs-Appellants.

229 U. S.

The words "vend" and "vending" as used in § 4952, Rev. Stat., in
regard to the copyright protection accorded authors and as used in
§ 4884, Rev. Stat., in regard to the protection accorded inventors
for their patented articles, are substantially the same, and the protection intended to be secured to authors and inventors is substantially identical.
While Bobbs-Merrill Co.-v. Straus, 210 U. S. 339, recognized that there
are differences between the copyright statute and the patent statute,
and disclaimed then deciding the effect of the word "vending" as
used in the latter, this court now decides that the terms used in regard to the protection accorded by both statutes in regard to the
exclusive right to sell are to all intents the same.
The right given by the patent law to the inventor to use his invention
should be protected by all means properly within the scope of the
statute, and the patentee may transfer a patented article with a
qualified title as to its use. Henry v. Dick Co., 224 U. S.1.
Where the transfer of the patented article is full and complete, an attempt to reserve the right to fix the price at which it shall be resold
by the vendee is futi6 under the statute. It is not a license-for qualified use, but an attempt to unduly extend the right to vend. Henry
v. Dick Co., 224 U. S.1, distinguished.
While the patent law creates to a certain extent a monopoly by the
inventor in the patented article, a patentee who has parted with
the article patented by passing title to a purchaser has placed the
article beyond the limits of the monopoly secured by the act. Adams
v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453.

THE facts, which involve the construction of § 4884,
Rev. Stat., and the extent of the rights thereunder of
patentees to control the price at which the patented article
shall be sold by their vemadees, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edwin J. Prindle for plaintiffs-appellants:
The inventor has the right to exclude every one from
any making, using, or selling of the patented invention.

Therefore, when he grants any right under the patent to
anyone, he simply waives his right to exclude them from

all making, using, or selling of the patented invention to
that extent, and all ungranted right of exclusion remains
in him.

BAUER v. O'DONNELL.
229 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs-Appellants.

A notice of price restriction on a package is notice to
all the world that the right to sell the article below the
price stated on the package is not granted and does not
pass from the inventor.
Defendant's sale at a retail price below the amount
named, of packages bought from jobbers and having the
license restriction label on them, was an infringement.
Price restrictions have been sustained in this court and
in the lower Federal courts. Mitchell v. Hawley, 16 Wall.
544; Henry v. Dick, 224 U. S. 1; Bement v. National
Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70.
The right of a patentee to restrict the price at which
his article shall be sold by a license-restriction-notice
attached to the article, of the same import as the notice
in the present case, has been sustained by many of the
lower courts in the United States and by the courts of
England. Victor Talking Machine v. The Fair,r 123 Fed.
Rep. 424; New Jersey Patent Co. v. Schaefer, 144 Fed.
Rep. 437; Rubber Tire Wheel Co. v. Milwaukee R. W. Co.,
154 Fed. Rep. 358; Goshen Rubber Works v. Single Tube
A. & B. Tire Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 431; Edison v. Ira M.
Smith Co., 188 Fed. Rep. 925; Waltham Watch Co. v.
Keene, 191 Fed. Rep. 855; Automatic Pencil Sharpener
Co. v. Goldsmith Bros., 190 Fed. Rep., 205; Indiana Mfg.
Co. v. Nichols, 190 Fed. Rep. 579; Incandescent Gas Co.
v. Cantelo, 12 Rep. Pat. Cas. 262; Same v. Brogden, 16
Rep. Pat. Cas. 183; Badische Analin &c. v. Isler (1906),
1 Chancery, 611 ;.McGruther v. Pitcher (1904), 2 Chancery,
306; National PhonographCo. v. Mench, 27 T. L. R. 239;
The B. V. D. Co. v. Wolf (wireported); The Fair v. Dover
Mfg. Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 117; Edison Phonograph Co. v.
Kaufmann, 105 Fed. Rep. 960; Edison PhonographCo. v.
Pike, 116 Fed. Rep. 863;. National Phonograph Co. v.
.Schlegel, 128 Fed. Rep. 733e; Ingersoll v. Shellenberg, 147
Fed. Rep. 522; Winchester Arms Co. v. Buengar, 199 Fed.
Rep. 786; American GraphophoneCo. v. Pickard, 201 Fed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiffs-Appellants.

229 U. S.

Rep. 546; Lovell-McConnell Co. v. InternationalAutomobile League, 202 Fed. Rep. 219.
Many of the foregoing cases are identical, in principle,
with the facts in the present case.
The patentee's control over selling was recognized by
this court in Henry v. Dick, 224 U. S. 1.
The right of the patentee to restrict the price at which
his article shall be sold comes within the principle 4ecided
in Henry v. Dick, and the defendant in this case is a
contributory infringer precisely as Henry was in that
case.
The patentee's monopoly of selling is co6rdinate with
that of using his patented article and subject to the same
degree of control. Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453; Bement
v. National Harrow Co., supra; Standard Sanitary Co. v.
United States, 226 U. S. 20.
Plaintiffs did not receive the full consideration for the
patented article when they received the purchase money
from the defendant or the jobber, and they have a continuing interest in the article.
Patentee's control over the price of his article is reasonable, proper and consistent With sound public policy.
Defendant's purchase from jobber instead of from
plaintiffs does not relieve him from infringement, as he
had notice through the price restriction on the label.
Victor Talking Machine Co. v.. The Fair, 123 Fed. Rep.
427; New Jersey Patent Co. v. Schaefer, 144 Fed. Rep. 437;
S. C., 159 Fed. Rep. 171; Edison v. Smith, 188 Fed. Rep.
925; Automatic Pencil Co. v. Goldsmith, 190 Fed. Rep.
205.
The Waltham Watch Case, 191 Fed. Rep. 855, has no
bearing on the case at bar, and the language quoted had
no reference to the distinction in' the present case. So
also as to the Folding Bed Case, 147 U. S. 659.
There is no attempt in this case at monopoly or to restrict trade. The patentee only seeks to control the price

BAUER v. O'DONNELL.
229 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs-Appellants.

of an article in an industry which he himself has created,
and in which the public has had no previous rights or
experience of free competition in the article. The public
is just as free to purchase unpatented articles as it ever
was, and the monopoly which the law gives the patentee
is only the inducement which it held out to the patentee
to make the invention and the just and proper price paid
for his contribution, of it forever to public knowledge at
theThe
expiration of the monopoly.
defense based on the copyright statute
and BobbsMerrill v. Straus, 210 U. S. 339, does not apply. Judge
Ray in his decision in the Waltham Watch Case argues at
length that as the Supreme Court in the Bobbs-Merrill
Case held that an author has no right to fix the price at
which his book should be resold, it follows that an inventor is also without that right.
This court in that case expressly refused to express an
opinion as to whether, under the state of facts in the
present case, its decision would be the same as it was in
that case.
These three separate rights of making, using and selling
granted the inventor by the patent statute have always
been treated as co~rdinate rights and never been treated
as of different rank.
The right to sell is always treated as co6rdinate with
the right to make and use in the patent cases, while as decided in the Bobbs-Merrill Case, the right to sell under the
copyright statute is merely incidental to the right of
duplication.
There are vital differences between the right to vend
of the inventor and the right to vend'of the author. And
because of the differences in the nature of a patented
article and an author's book, there are vital differences in what is involved in "vending" under the two
statutes.
The power of an inventor to subdivide the right to vend,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiffs-Appellants.

229 U. S.

granted by his patent, has been repeatedly upheld. On
the other hand, the author can only assign his right as a
whole. He could not subdivide the territory in any such
way. See Bgobbs-Merrill Case, 147 Fed. Rep. 23; Crown
Co. v. Standard Brewery, 174 Fed. Rep. 258.
Rights under the patent statute are much broader than
those under the copyright statute. The patent statute
gives a complete monopoly of the invention. The copyright statute only gives the right of duplicating and the
right of vending. "Making" under the patent statute
covers every form of the invention which performs the
same function in substantially the same way, without
regard to appearance.
The patent statute gives the inventor absolute control
over the use of the invention and the inventor can forbid
its use in any but a particular locality. No author, however, could restrict the reading of his ,book only to the
person who purchases it, or to its being read only in a certain town.
The monopoly granted to the inventor is very much
more extensive than that granted to the author, and the
scope of "vending" under the patent statute cannot be
measured by the scope of "vending" under the copyright
statute. The Fairv. Dover Mfg. Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 117;
Automatic Pencil Co. v. Goldsmith, 190 Fed. Rep. 205;
Indiana Mfg. Co. v. Nichols, 190 Fed. Rep. 579; Edison
v. Smith, 188 Fed. Rep. 925; Waltham Watch Co. v. Keene,
191 Fed. Rep. 855.
The cases cited by defendant, to-wit: Bloomer v. McQuewan, 14 How. 539; Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453;
Chaffee v. Boston Belting Co., 22 How. 217; MorganEnvelope
Co. v. Albany Paper Co., 152 U. S. 425; Keeler v. Standard
FoldingBed Co., 157 U. S. 659; Bement v. National Harrow
Co., 186 U. S. 70, do not sustain his proposition to the
effect that a sale of a patented article under a license
restriction borne by that article, and known to the pur-

BAUER v. O'DONNELL.
229 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

chaser, frees the article from the restrictions. Patterson
v. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501.
Defendant's right in the physical materials of the packages of Sanatogen which be bought is unquestioned. He
has, however, no right to use those materials in violation
of the reserved portion of monopoly, namely, to sell the
package at a retail price lower than one dollar. Henry
v. Dick, 224 U. S. 1.
Plaintiffs' patent grants them the right to exclude all
others from any making, using or selling of the patented
invention. In Henry v. Dick, the right was sustained of
a patentee to enjoin others from violation of conditions as
to use attached to a sale.
The patentee's control over selling is co6rdinate and
co-extensive with that over using his invention.
Plaintiffs did not receive the full consideration for the
patented article when they received the purchase money,
and they have a continuing interest in the article.
The patentee's control over the price of his patented
article is reasonable, proper and consistent with sound
public policy.
This court has recognized the patentee's control over
the resale price of his patented article, and such control
comes within the principle decided in Henry v. Dick.
Mr. Daniel W. Baker, with whom Mr. Frank J. Hogan
was on the brief, for O'Donnell, defendant-appellee.
Mr. Frederick P. Fish and Mr. Thomas W. Pelham, by
leave of court and on behalf of the Gillette Safety Razor
Company, filed a brief in support of plaintiffs' contention.
Mr. Horace Pettit, by leave of court and on behalf of
theVictor Talking Machine Company, also filed a brief
in support of plaintiffs' contention.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is on a certificate from the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia. The facts stated in the
certificate are:
"Bauer & Cie, of Berlin, Germany, copartners, being
the assignees of letters patent of the United States, dated
April 5, 1898, No. 601,995, covering a certain water soluble albumenoid known as 'Sanatogen' and the process of
manufacturing the same, about July, 1907, entered into
an agreement with F. W. Hehmeyer, doing business in
the City of New York under the trade name of The
Bauer Chemical Company, whereby Hehmeyer became
and has, since been the sole agent and licensee for the sale
of said product in the United States, the agreement contemplating that Hehmeyer should have power to fix the
price of sale to wholesalers or distributors and to retailers,
and to the public. The agreement further contemplated
that said product should be furnished Hehmeyer at manufacturing cost, the net profits obtained by him to be
shared equally by the parties to the agreement. Since
April, 1910, this product has been uniformly sold and
supplied to the trade and to the public by the appellants
and their licensees in sealed packages bearing the name
'Sanatogen,' the words 'Patented in U. S. A., No. 601,995,'
and the following:
"'Notice to the Retailer.
"'This size package of Sanatogen is licensed by us for
sale and use at a price not less than one dollar ($1.00).
Any sale in violation of this condition, or use when so sold,
will constitute an infringement of our patent No. 601,995,
under which Sanatogen is manufactured, and all persons
so selling or using packages or contents will be liable to
injunction and damages.
"'A purchase is an acceptance of this condition. All

BAUER v. O'DONNELL.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rights revert to the undersigned in the event of violation.
THE BAUER CHEMICAL CO.'

"The appellee is the proprietor of a retail drug-store at
904 F Street, N. W., in this city. He purchased of the
Bauer Chemical Company for his retail trade original
packages of said Sanatogen bearing the aforesaid notice.
These packages he sold at retail at less than one dollar
and, persisting in such sales, appellants in March, 1911,
severed relations with him. Thereupon appellee, without
the license or consent of the appellants, purchased from
jobbers within the District of Columbia, said jobbers having purchased from appellants, original packages of said
tproduct bearing the aforesaid notice, sold said packages at
retail at less than the price fixed in said notice, and avers
that. he will continue such sales."
The question propounded is: "Did the acts -of the
appellee, in retailing at less than the price fixed. in said
notice, original packages of 'Sanatogen' purchased of
jobbers as aforesaid, constitute infringemeat-of appellants'
patent?"
The protection given to inventors and authors in the
United States originated, in the Constitution, § 8 of Art., I
of which authorizes the Congress "to promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing for limited
times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their
respective writings and discoveries." This protection, so
far as inventors are concerned, has been conferred by
an act of Congress pasped April 10, 1790, and subsequent
acts and amendments. The act of 1790, 1 Stat. 109, c. 7,
granted "the sole and exclusive right and liberty of making,
constructing, using and vending to others to be used, the
said invention or discovery." In 1793 (Feb. 21, 1793, 1
Stat. 31 , . 1) the word "full" was substituted for the
wri "sole," and in 1836 (July 4, 1836, 5 Stat. 117, § 5,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

c. 357) the word "constructing" was omitted. This legislation culminated in § 4884 of the Revised Statutes, the
part with which we are dealing being practically identical
with the act of July 8, 1870, 16 Stat. 198, § 22, c. 230.
It provides that every patent shall contain "a grant to the
patentee, his heirs and assigns, for the term of seventeen
years, of the exclusive right to make, use, and vend the
invention or discovery."
The right to make, use and sell an invented article is
not derived from the patent law. This right existed before
and without the passage of the law and was always the
right of an inventor. The act secured to the inventor the
exclusive right to make, use and vend the thing patented,
and consequently to prevent others from exercising like
privileges without the consent of the patentee. Bloomer
v. McQuewan, 14 How. 539, 549; Continental Paper Bag
Co. v. Eastern Paper Bag Co., 210 U. S. 405, 425. It was
passed for the purpose of encouraging useful invention
and promoting new and useful improvements by the protection and stimulation thereby given to inventive genius,
and was intended to secure to the public, after the lapse
of the exclusive privileges granted, the benefit of such
inventions and improvements. With these beneficent
purposes in view the act of Congress should be fairly or
even liberally construed; yet, while this principle is generally recognized, care should be taken not to extend by
judicial construction the rights and privileges which it
was the purpose of Congress to bestow.
In framing the act and defining the extent of the rights
and privileges secured to a patentee Congress did not use
technical or occult phrases, but in simple terms gave an
inventor the exclusive right to make, use and vend his
invention for a definite term of years. The right to make
can scarcely be made plainer by definition, and embraces
the construction of the thing invented. The right to use
is a comprehensive term and embraces within its meaning

BAUER v. O'DONNELL.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the right to put into service any given invention. And
Congress did not stop with the express grant of the rights
to make and to use. Recognizing that many inventions
would be valuable to the inventor because of sales of the
patented machine or device to others, it granted also the
exclusive right to vend the invention covered by the
letters patent. To vend is also a term readily understood
and of no doubtful import. Its use in the statute secured
to the inventor the exclusive right to transfer the title for
a consideration to others. In the exclusive rights to make,
use and vend, fairly construed, with a view to making the
purpose of Congress effectual, reside the extent of the
patent monopoly under the statutes of the United States.
Bloomer v. McQuewan, supra, 549. We need not now stop
to consider the rights to sell and convey, and to license
others to sell or use inventions, which rights have been the
subject of consideration in the numerous reported cases
to be found in the books. We are here concerned with the
construction of the statute in the aspect and under the
facts now presented.
The case presented pertains to goods purchased by
jobbers within the District of Columbia and sold to the
appellee at prices not stated, and resold by him at retail
at less than the price of one dollar fixed in the notice.
The question therefore now before this court for judicial
determination is: May a patentee by notice limit the price
at which future retail sales of the patented article may be
made, such article being in the hands of a retailer by pmrchase from a jobber who has paid to the agent of the
patentee the full price asked for the article sold?
The object of the notice is said to be to effectually
maintain prices and to prevent ruinous competition by
the cutting of prices in sales of the patented article. That
such purpose could not be accomplished by agreements
concerning articles not protected by the patent monopoly
was settled by this court in the case of Dr. Miles Medical

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of tile Coult.

229 U. S.

Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373, in which it was held
that an attempt to thus fix the price of an art ile of general
use would be against publi6 policy and void. It was
doubtless within the power of Congress to confer such
right of restriction upon a patentee. Has it done so? The
question has not been determined in any previous case
in this court, so far as we are aware. It was dealt with
under the copyright statute, however, in the case of BobbsMerrill Co. v. Straus, 210 U. S. 339. In that case it was
undertaken to limit the price of copyrighted books for
sale at retail by a notice on each book fixing the price at
one dollar and stating that no dealer was licensed to sell it
for less and that a sale at a less price would be treated as
an infringement of the copyright. It was there held that
le statute, in securing to the holder of the copyright ihe
"ole right to vend copies of the book, conferred a privilege
which, when the book was sold, was exercised by the
holder, and that the right secured by the statute was
thereby exhausted. The court also held that it was not
the purpose of the law to grant the further right to qualify
the title of future purchasers by means of t}ie printed
notice affixed to the book, and that to give such right
would extend the statute beyond its fair meaning and
secure privileges not intended to be covered by the act of
Congress. In that case it was recognized that there are
differences between the copyright statute and the patent
statute, and the purpose to decide the question now before
us was expressly disclaimed.
Section 4952, Revised Statutes, a part of the copyright
act, secures to an author, inventor, designer or proprietor
of books, maps, charts or dramatic or musical compositions
the sole liberty of printing, reprinting, publishing, completing, copying, executing, finishing and vending them.
While that statute differs from the patent statute in terms
and in the subject-matter intended to be protected, it is
apparent that in the respect involved in the present

BAUER v. O'DONNELL.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

inquiry there is a strong similarity between and identity
of purpose in the two statuites. In the case of patents the
exclusive right to vend the invention or discovery is added
to the like right to make and use the subject-matter of the
grant, and-in the case of copyrights the sole right of multiplying and reproducing' books and other compositions is
coupled with the similar right of "vending the same."
So far as the use of the terms "vend" and "vending" is
concerned, the protection intended to be secured is substantially identical. The sale of a patented article is not
essentially different from the sale of a book. In each case
to vend is to part with the thing for a consideration. It
is insisted that the purpose to be subserved by notices
such as are now under consideration-keeping up prices
and preventing competition-is more essential to the
protection of patented inventions than of copyrighted
articles; and it is said that the copyrighted article may be
and usually is sold for a lump consideration by the author
or composer and that he has no interest in the subsequent
sales of the work, while patented inventions require large
outlays to create and maintain a market. To some extent
this contention may be based upon fact, nevertheless it is
well known that in many instances the compensation an
author receives is the royalties upon sales of his book or a
percentage of profits, which makes it desirable that he
shall have the protection of devices intended to keep up
the market and prevent the cutting of prices. But these
considerations could have had little weight in framing the
acts. In providing for grants of exclusive rights and
privileges to inventors and authors we think Congress lad
no intention to use the term "vend" in one sense in the
patent act and "vending" in another in the copyright law.
Protection in the exclusive right to sell is aimed at in both
instances, and the terms used in the statutes 9-e to all
intents the same.
It is apparent that the principal difference in the enact-

OCTOBER 'ER M, 1912.
Opittion of the (ourt.

229 U. S.

ments lies in the presence of the word "use" in the patent
statute and its absence in the copyright law. An inventor
has not only the exclusive right to make and vend his
invention or discovery, but he has the like right to use it,
and when a case comes fairly within the grant of the right
to use, that use should be protected by all means properly
within the scope of the statute. In Bement v. National
Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70, the owner of a patent granted a
license to the defendant to manufacture and sell harrows
embodied in the invention covered by the patent. The
license provided for the payment to the licensor by the
licensee of a royalty of one dollar for each harrow or frame
sold and stipulated that the licensee was not to sell to any
person for a less price than that named, and that the
license was subject to change from time to time. The case
was one arising upon license agreements, originating in a
state court, and did not involve the construction of the
patent act in the circumstances now disclosed.
Chief reliance, however, of the plaintiff in this case is
upon the recent decision of this court in Henry v. Dick Co.,
224 U. S. 1. An examination of the opinion in that case
shows that the restriction was sustained because of the
right to use the machine granted in the patent statute.
distinguishing in that respect the patent from the copyright act. In that case a patented mimeograph had been
sold which bore an inscription in the form of a notice that
the machine was sold with the license restriction that it
might only be used with stencil, ink and other supplies
made by the A. B. Dick Company, the owners of the
patent. The alleged infringer sold to the purchaser of
the mimeograph, a can of ink suitable for use with the
machine with full knowledge of the restriction and with
the expectation that the ink sold would be used in connection with the machine. It is expressly stated in the opinion
that the machine was sold at cost or less and that the
patentee depended upon the profit realized from the sale

BAUER v. O'DONNELL.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the non-patented articles'to be used with the machine
for the profit which he expected to realize from his invention (224 U. S. 26). After commenting upon the copyright statutes and the resemblance between the author's
right to vend copies of his work and the patentee's right
vend the patented thing, it was said (p. 46):
to "To
the inventor, by § 4884, Revised Statutes, there
is granted 'the exclusive right to make, use and vend the
invention or discovery.' This grant, as defined in Bloomer
v. McQuewan, 14 How. 539, 549, 'consists altogether in
the right to exclude every one from making, using or vending the thing patented.' Thus, there are several substantive rights, and each is the subject of subdivision, so that
one person may be permitted to make, but neither to sell
nor use the patented thing. To another may be conveyed
the right to sell, but within a limited area, or for a particular use, while to another the patentee may grant only
the right to make and use, or to use only for specific purposes. Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453; Mitchell v. Hawley,
16 Wall. 544; Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788, 799."
opinion.)
,(Italics in the original
That case was distinguished from Bobbs-Merrill v.
Straus, supra, construing the copyright act, because of
the difference in the terms of the copyright and patent
statutes, the patent act conferring not only the right to
make and sell, but the exclusive right to use the subjectmatter of the patent. It was under the right to use that
the license notice in question was sustained, and it is obvious that the notice in that case dealt with the use of the
machine and limited it to use only with the paper, ink
and supplies of the manufacture of the patentee. While
the title was transferred, it was a qualified title, giving
a right to use the machine only with certain specified supplies. It was said in the.Dick Case (p. 47) th& "there
is no collision whatever between the decision in the BobbsMerrill Case and the present opinion. Each rests upon a

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U.S.

construction of the applicable statute, and the special
facts of the cases."
It is contended in argument that the notice in this case
deals with the use of the invention, because the notice
states that the package is licensed "for sale and use at a
price not less than one dollar," that a purchase is an
acceptance of the conditions, and that all rights revert
to the patentee in event of violation of the restriction.
But in view of the facts certified in this case, as to what
took place concerning the article in question, it is a perversion of terms to call the transaction in any sense a
license to use the invention. The jobber from whom the
appellee purchased had previously bought, at a price
which must be deemed to have been satisfactory, the
packages of Sanatogen afterwards sold to the appellee.
The patentee had no interest in the proceeds of the subsequent sales, no right to any royalty thereon or to participation in the profits thereof. The packages were sold
with as full and complete title as any article could have
when sold in the open market, excepting only the attempt
to limit the sale or use when sold for not less than one
dollar. In other words, the title transferred was full and
complete with an attempt to reserve the right to fix the
price at which subsequent sales could be made. There is
no showing of a qualified sale for less than value for limited
use with other articles only, as was shown in the Dick Case.
There was no transfer of a limited right to use this invention, and to call the sale a license to use is a mere play
upon words.
The real question is whether in the exclusive right secured by statute to "vend" a patented article there is
included the right, by notice, to dictate the price at which
subsequent sales of the article may be made. The patentee relies solely Upon the notice quoted to control future prices in the resale by a purchaser of an article said
to be of great utility and highly desirable for general use.

BAUER v. O'DONNELL.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The appellee and the jobbers from whom he purchased
were neither the agents nor the licensees of the patentee.
They had the title to, and the right to sell, the article
purchased without accounting for the proceeds to the
patentee and without making any further payment than
had already been made in the purchase from the agent
of the patentee. Upon such facts as are now presented
we think the right to vend secured in the patent statute
'is not distinguishable from the right of vending given in
the copyright act. In both instances it was the intention
of Congress to secure an exclusive right to sell, and there
is no grant of a privilege to keep up prices and prevent
competition by notices restricting the price at which the
article may be resold. The right to vend conferred by
the patent law has been exercised, and the added restriction is beyond the protection and purpose of the act.
This being so, the case is brought within that line of cases
in which this court from the beginning has held that a
patentee who has parted with a patented machine by
passing title to a purchaser has placed the article beyond
the limits of the monopoly secured by the patent act.
In Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453, Mr. Justice Miller,
delivering the opinion of the court, pertinently said
(p. 455):
"The vast pecuniary results involved in such
cases, as
well as the public interest, admonish us to proceed with
care, and to decide in each case no more than what is
directly in issue.
"The true ground on which these decisions rest is that
the sale by a person who has the full right to make, sell,
and use such a machine carries with it the right to the use
of that machine to the full extent to which it can be used
in point of time.
"The right to manufacture, the right to sell, and the
right to use are each substantive rights, and may be
granted or conferred separately by the patentee.
VOL. ccxxix-2

OCTOBER, TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

"But, in the essential nature of things, when the patentee, or the person having his rights, sells a machine
or instrument whose sole value is in its use, he receives
the consideration for its use and he parts with the right
to restrict that use. The article, in the language of the
court, passes without the limit of the monopoly. That
is to say, the patentee or his assignee having in the act
of sale received all the royalty or consideration which he
claims for the use of his invention in that particular machine or instrument, it is open to the use of the purchaser
without further restriction on account of the monopoly
of the patentees."
Bloomer v. McQuewan, supra; Goodyear v. Beverly Rubber Co., 1 Cliff. 348, 354, 10 Fed. Cases, 638; Chaffee v.
Boston Belting Co., 22 How. 217, 223; Keeler v. Standard
Folding Bed Co., 157 U. S. 659.
Holding these views, the question propounded by the
Court of Appeals will be answered in the negative, and
It is so_.ordered.
Dissenting: MR. JUSTICE McKENNA, MR. JUSTICE
HOLMES, MR. JUSTICE LURTON and MR. JUSTICE VAN
.DEVANTER.

