GORMAN r. IITT_,! ;FIELD.
229 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

GORMAN v. LITTLEFIELD, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF A. 0. BROWN & CO.
APPEAL FROM THE .CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 243.

Argued April 21, 22, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

Where the trustee of a bankrupt broker finds in the estate certificates
for shares of a particular stock legally subject to the demand of the
customer for whom shares of that stock were bought by the bankrupt, the customer is entitled to the same although the certificates
may not be the identical ones purchased for him. Richardson v.
Shaw, 209 U. S. 365.
Where there are in the bankrupt's possession certificates for enough
shares of a particular stock to satisfy the legal demand of a customer
for whom shares of that stock were purchased, and no other customer can legally demand any shares of that stock, those certificates
will be presumed to be the certificates kept by the. bankrupt in
accordance with his duty so to do to satisfy the demand of such customer.
It is the right and duty of the bankrupt, if he uses securities belonging
to a customer, to use his own funds to replace such securities with
others of the same kind, and in so doing he does not deplete the
estate against his other creditors.
No creditor of the bankrupt can demand that the estate of the bankrupt be augmented by'the wrongful conversion of property of another, or the application to the general estate of property which never
rightfully belonged to the bankrupt.
There is no presumption that certificates of stock in the possession of
the bankrupt were embezzled or stolen, but there is a presumption
that such certificates were bought and paid for out of his own funds
to replace those which he had used belonging to a customer.
175 Fed. Rep. 769, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a customer of a
bankrupt brokerage firm to shares of stock purchased for
him by the bankrupt and fully paid for by the claimant
prior to the petition, notwithstanding the certificates in

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellee-Respondent.

229 U. S.

possession of the bankrupt are not the identical ones
purchased, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. James L. Coleman, with whom Mr. Robert Dunlap
was on the brief, for appellant-petitioner.
Mr. Daniel P. Hays, with whom Mr. Ralph Wolf was
on the brief, for appellee-respondent:
The burden was on appellant to prove that his stocks,
or the proceeds thereof, came into the possession of the
receiver or trustee. FirstNational Bank v. Littlefield, 226
U. S. 110; Peters v. Bain, 133 U. S. 670.
Appellant cannot establish title -to the specific shares
of copper stock found after bankruptcy unless he identifies
such certificates as having been purchased for him. This
he has not done. Cases supra, and Empire State Surety
Co. v. Carroll County, 194 Fed. Rep. 593; Commissioners
v. Strawn, 157 Fed. Rep. 49; City Bank v. Blackmore, 75
Fed. Rep. 771; In re Hicks, 170 N. Y. 195; Lowe v. Jones,
192 Massachu~etts, 94; In re Berry, 149 Fed. Rep. 176;
Thomas v. Taggart, 209 U. S. 385;'In re McIntyre, 181
Fed. Rep. 960.
See also various proceedings in Re A. 0. Brown & Co.,
185 Fed. Rep. 766; 193 Fed. Rep. 24; Id. 30, and In re
Ennis, 187 Fed. Rep. 728.
The concurrent finding of both the District Court and
the Circuit Court of Appeals that appellant failed to
prove that his stock, or the proceeds thereof, came into
the possession of the receiver or trustee will not be disturbed in the absence of manifest error. FirstNatl. Bank
v. Littlefield, 226 U. S. 110; Brainerdv. Buck, 184 U. S. 99;
Stuart v. Hayden, 169 U. S. 1.
These findings of fact, unless reversed by this court,
effectually dispose of appellant's claim.
The mere fact that there came into the possession of
the receiver 350 shares of this particular stock, does

CORMAN
229 U. S.

. LITTLEFIELD.

Opinion of tle Court.

not, without further proof, entitle the appellant thereto.
In re McIntyre, 181 Fed. Rep. 960; In re Berry, 149 Fed.
Rep. 176; aff'd sub nomine Thomas v. Taggart, 209 U. S.
385, and other cases supra; Empire Surety Co. v. Carroll
(Jounty,-194 Fed. Rep. 593.
If the decree of the court below is reversed, a new
method will be added to the Bankruptcy Act for the distribution of te estate of an insolvent brokerage firm.
There will be nothing left to distribute to general creditors.
All of each stock coming into the possession of the receiver
would be reclaimed by and distributed among the creditors
of the firm owning or carrying such stock. No shares
would be left in the trustee's hands for distribution among
general creditors.
The authorities relied upon by appellant are not in
point. 'Richardson v. Shaw, 209 U. S. 365, can be distinguished. See Thomas v. Taggart, 209 U. S. 385.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case presents a controversy over 250 shares of
Green Cananea Copper Company stock, which came into
the possession of the trustee in bankruptcy of Albert 0.
Brown and others, copartners, trading under the name of
A. 0. Brown & Company. Appellant, James E. Gorman,
claimed to be the owner of the shares of stock and instituted proceedings in the District Court to recover them.
The matter was referred to a special master, who found
the facts and recommended the transfer of the stock to the
claimant. The District Court upon hearing ruled otherwise, and, upon appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
the ruling of the District Court was sustained.
The claimant for a year or more before the failure of
A- 0. Brown & Company was a customer dealing with one
of the Chicago officesof that firm, buying stocks on margin
arid also paying for them in full. On or about April 14,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

1908, Gorman directed the Chicago office to buy 250
shares of Green Cananea Copper stock for him. The
stock was bought on the understanding that it was to be
paid for in full, and at the time that the order was executed
the claimant had an ample credit balance with the firm
applicable on its books to the payment in full of the shares
purchased. The certificates of stock were left by the
claimant in the possession of the broker subject to the
claimant's future order. The books of the bankrupt firm
show that on April 14, 1908, they bought for the account
of Gorman, 100 shares of Green Cananea Copper stock and
received certificate A-335. This certificate was delivered
to J. T.
on May 6, 1908, on account of a sale
from H. Wright & Company, of Cleveland, Ohio. On
April 14, 1908, the bankrupt firm bought for the claimant
50 shares of Green Cananea Copper stock and received
certificate Y-11083. This certificate was on May 14,1908,
delivered to DeCoppet & Doremus, on account of balance
of trade on that date. On April 14, 1908, the bankrupt
firm bought for the claimant 50 shares of the same stock
and received certificate B-6589. 'This certificate was
delivered to DeCoppet & Doremus on April 16, 1908, on
account of the sale of L. E. Gorton, of Detroit, Michigan.
On April 14, 1908, the bankrupt firm bought for the claimant 50 shares of the same stock and received certificate
B-6537. This certificate was delivered to Carpenter &
Baggott on May 14, 1908, on account of a sale to Parson,
Snyder & Company, of Cleveland, Ohio. The receiver
in bankruptcy, now the trustee, came into the possession
of, and still has in his possession, certificates indorsed in
blank for an aggregate of 350 shares of Green Cananea
Copper stock. As to this stock no claim has been filed with
the receiver or trustee, although the master says the time
for filing claims has expired. The certificates of stock in
question, with those purchased for other clients, which
were paid for in full or were purchased on margin, were

GORMAN v. LITTLEFIELD.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

placed without discrimination in the same tin box. It
was customary to take certificates to make delivery from
that box, indiscriminately, unless the certificate had been
transferred to the name of the customer. At no time before the failure did the claimant receive his shares of the
Green Cananea Copper stock, nor did he order its sale.
Upon these facts the question is, Are these shares of
stock a part of the general estate for the benefit of creditors or should they be turned over to the claimants?
In Richardson v. Shaw, 209 U. S. 365, the nature of this
property was the subject of discussion and decision in
this court. In that case a broker, who had been adjudicated a bankrupt, shortly before the bankruptcy and
after his insolvency turned over upon demand to a customer shares of stock similar to those which had been
held for the customer and for, an equal number of shares.
It was contended that under the circumstances this de-livery of certificates amounted to a preference under the
Bankruptcy Act. This court therefore had to consider
the legal relation of customer and broker, in buying and
holding shares of stock, and it was held that the certificates of stock were not the property itself, but merely the
evidence of it, and that a certificate for the same number
of shares represented precisely the same kind and value
of property as another certificate for a like number of
shares in the same corporation; that the return of a different certificate or the substitution of one certificate for
another made no material change in the property right,
of the customer; that such shares were unlike distinct
articles of personal- property, differing in -kind or value,
as a horse, wagon or harness, and that stock has no earmark which distinguishes one share from another, but is
like grain of a uniform quality in an elevator, onedbushel
being of the same kind and value as another. It was
therefore concluded that the turning over of the certificates for the shares of stock belonging to the customer and

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

held by the broker for him did not amount to a preferential transfer of the bankrupt's property.
In the subsequent case of Sexton v. Kessler, 225 U. S.
90, this court, speaking of the relation of customer and
broker, said (p. 97):
"When a broker agrees to carry stock for a customer
he may buy stocks to fill several orders in a lump; he may
increase his single purchase by stock of the same kind
that he wants for himself; he may pledge the whole block
thus purchased for what sum he likes, or deliver it all in
satisfaction of later orders, and he may satisfy the earlier
customer with any stock that he has on hand or that he
buys when the time for delivery comes. Yet as he is
bound to keep stock enough to satisfy his contracts, as
the New York firm in this case was bound to substitute
other security if it withdrew any, the customer is held
to have such an interest that a delivery to him by an insolvent broker is not a preference. Richardson v. Shaw,
209 U. S. 365. Markham v. Jaudon, 41 N. Y. 235. So a
depositor in a grain elevator may have a property in grain
in a certain elevator although the keeper is at liberty to
mix his own or other grain With the deposit and empty
and refill the receptacle twenty times before making good
his receipt to the depositor concerned."
It is therefore unnecessary for a customer, where shares
of stock of the same kind are in the hands of a broker,
beirg held to satisfy his claims, to be able to put his finger
upon the identical certificates of stock purchased for
him. It is enough that the broker has shares of the same
kind which are legally subject to the demand of the customer. And in this respect the trustee in bankruptcy is
iin the same position as the broker. Richardson v. Shaw,
supra.
It is said, however, that the shares in this particular
case are not so identified as to come within the rule. But
it does appear that at the time of bankruptcy certificates

GORMAN v. LITTLEFIELD.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

were found in the bankrupt's possession in an amount
greater than those which should have been on hand for
this customer, and the significant fact is shown that no
other customer claimed any right in those shares of stock.
It was, as we have seen, the duty of the broker, if he sold
the shares specifically ,purchased for the appellant, to
buy others of like kind and to keep on hand subject to
the order of the customer certificates sufficient for the
legitimate demands upon him. If he did this, the identification of particular certificates is unimportant. Furthermore, it was the right and duty of the broker, if he
sold the certificates, to use his own funds to keep the
amount good, and this he could do without depleting his
estate to the detriment of other creditors who had no
property rights in the certificates held for particular customers. No creditor could justly demand that the estate
be augmented by a wrongful conversion of the property
of another in this manner or the application to the general
estate of property which never rightfully belonged to the
bankrupt.
The ground upon which the Circuit Court of Appeals
decided the case seems to have been that the certificates
were not sufficiently identified, but, as we have said, they
were on hand to an amount claimed by the appellant and
more, and were not claimed by any other customer. We
think there should be no presumption that the stock was
stolen or embezzled with intent to deprive the rightful
owner of it, and when the unclaimed- shares are found in
the possession of the bankrupt it is only fair to accept the
general presumption in favor of fair dealing and to decide,
in the absence of countervailing proof, that the broker
out of his funds has supplied the deficiency for the benefit
of his customer, which he had a perfect right to do.
Judgment reversed.

