OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Petitioners.

229 U. S.

JOURNAL OF COMMERCE AND COMMERCIAL
BULLETIN v. BURLESON, AS POSTMASTER
GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 818.

Submitted March 11, 1913.-Decided March 17, 1913.

A restraining order against the Postmaster General enforcing the statute, the constitutionality of which is involved in this action (see
ante, p. 288) granted pending the decision on application of the appellant.

The Journal of Commerce and Commercial
Bulletin for restraining order.
PETITION of

Mr. Robert C. Morris for petitioner:
The petition alleged among things that at the time of
taking the appeal and during the proceedings, it was agreed
between counsel for the appellant, the Department of
Justice and the Post-Office Department that pending the
decision by this court upon said appeal in this case no
action would be taken by the Post-Office Department to
either compel the appellant or other newspaper publishers
throughout the country to comply with the provisions of
the act of August 24, 1912, or to enforce against them
the penalties for non-compliance or to deny to them the
privileges of the mail upon their failure to file and publish
the required statements. That the only condition attached
to such understanding was the condition that counsel for
the appellant should prosecute this appeal with all reasonable diligence, so that the questions involved might be
presented to this court for determination without undue
delay.
That notwithstanding the agreement, appellant had re-

JOURNAL OF COMMERCE, ETC., v. BURLESON. 601
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ceived from the Postmaster of New York a communication to the effect that the provisions of said statute would
be enforced forthwith without awaiting the decision of
this court on the appeal which had been argued on December 2 and 3, 1912, and had not yet been decided.
That The Solicitor General of the United States had
accepted service of the motion.
The appellant prayed the court to grant herein an order
restraining the defendants or their successors in office, as
the case may be, and all persons acting through or under
them, until the decision of this court herein, from enforcing
or attempting to enforce the provisions of said statute,
and particularly restraining them from denying to appellant and other newspaper publishers the privileges of the
mail by reason of the failure or neglect of appellant and
such other publishers to comply with the provisions of
said law and file the statements required thereby.
On consideration of the motion for a
restraining order of the appellees herein,
It is now here ordered by the court that the motion be,
and the same is hereby, granted.
PER CURIAM.

