OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for 1Partics.

229 U. S.

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF LOUISIANA v.
TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH

No. 335.

CIRCUIT.

Submitted May 8, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.

It is the essential character of the commerce, not the accident of local
or through bills of lading, which determines Federal or state control
thereover.
Commerce takes its character as interstate or foreign when it is actually
started in the course of transportation to another State or to a foreign
country.
In this case staves and logs intended by the shippers to be exported to
foreign countries and shipped from points within the State to a'
seaport also therein from which they were to be exported were in
interstate and foreign commerce notwithstanding they were shipped
on local bills of lading for the initial journey and were subject to
interstate and not intrastate charges, and within Federal and not
state jurisdiction.'
184 Fed. Rep. 989, affirmed.

facts, which involve determining whether a shipment intended for export to a foreign country, but shipped
to the exporting seaport on local, bills of lading, was interstate or intrastate commerce and whether it was subject
to Federal or state jurisdiction, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Ruffin G. Pleasant, Attorney General of the State
of Louisiana, Mr. Wylie M. Barrow, Assistant Attorney
General, and Mr. E. Howard McCaleb for appellants.
Mr. Charles Payne Fenner, Mr. Walker B. Spencer,
Mr. Philip S. Gidiere, Mr. Esmonds Phelps, Mr. Henry
Bernstein, Mr. John Torts and Mr. F. G. Hudson for appellees.

LOUISIANA R. R. COMM. v. TEX. & PAC. RY. 337
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JTUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Suit in equity to declare void certain orders o'f the
Railroad Commission of the State of Louisiana and to
restrain the enforcement )f penalties for the alleged violation thereof. The ground of the suit is that the orders
and the penalties constitute a regulation of interstate
commerce and therefore are in violation of the commerce
clause of the Constitution of the United States.
An amended and stpplemental bill was filed by leave of
the court, making the appellant, Walter Guion, then Attorney -General of the State, a party on the ground that
he had asserted a right and intention to bring suits in
the state courts to collect the fines and penalties imposed
by the State Railroad Commission.
A demurrer was filed to the bill, stdting as grounds
thereof (1) That neither the original nor the supplemental bill stated any cause for the 'elief prayed. (2)
That the suit was one against the State, being one brought
to restrain the State in her sovereign character and capacity from instituting suits to recover and enforce the
collection of penalties imposed under and by virtue of
the provisions of her constitution of a penal nature.
(3) That the amount involved is not sufficient to give
the court jurisdiction, not being over $2,000.
The demurrer was overruled. An answer was then
filed. The case was referred to a master, who reported,
his conclusions of fact and of law and recommended that
the bill be dismissed, basing his recommendation on Gulf,
Colorado & Santa Fe R. R. Co. v. Texas, 204 U. S: 403.
The Circuit Court, however, drew a different conclusion from the facts, and entered a decree perpetually
enjoining the fines imposed. The decree was, affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, expressing, without
discussion, its concurrence with the court below that on
'VL. ccxxix-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

the facts found by the master the commerce involved in
the case was interstate.
The facts as found by the master may be summarized
as follows:
The appellee railroad companies are corporations engaged in interstate and intrastate commerce from points
within and without the State of Louisiana to the City
of New Orleans, and the freight transported by them is
subsequently loaded on board ships and transported to
foreign ports and countries. ThV Railroad Commission
of Louisiana, on May 25, 1905, promulgated and put in
effect an order which fixed the freight rates that the railroads should be entitled to charge on all intrastate traffic,
.and the rates were effective and in force at the date of
the shipment in 'controversy. In the months of July,
August and September, 1905, certain persons (their names
are unimportant) delivered to the St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Railway Company at certain stations
on the line of its road, within the State, eighteen carloads
of logs and staves. The logs and staves were transported
by the railway from said stations and delivered to Alexandria and there delivered to the Texas & Pacific Railway
Company, which transported them to New Orleans, where
they were unloaded from the cars, put on board ship and
exported to foreign countries.
When the shipments were made, the local tariff filed
with and approved by the State Railroad Commission
was ten cents per hundred pounds; the local tariff filed
with and approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission on such shipments; at that time, was twelve cents
per hundred pounds.
Thie consignees were notified of the arrival of the cars
at 'New Orleans and the Texas & Pacific Railway Company was'ordered by them to,deliver the freight to certain
steamships plying between New Orleans and European
ports. The freight was delivered in accordance with the

LOUISIANA R. R. COMM. v. TEX. & PAC. RY.
229 U. S.

339

Opinion of the Court.

orders and exported from Louisiana. A freight rate of
twelve cents per hundred pounds was charged on the
shipments and collected by the railway company.
In March, 1905' a shipper delivered to the Kansas
City Southern Railway Company at Leesville, Louisiana,
on its line of road, three carloads of tank staves, which
were loaded in cars of the Texas & Pacific Railway Company to be transported to a named consignee at New
Orleans. The rate established by the State Railroad
Commission was ten cents per hundred pounds; the interstate rate filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission was fifteen cents per hundred pounds. The staves
were hauled to Shreveport, Louisiana, and there delivered to the Texas & Pacific Railway Company, which
hauled them to New Orleans. The customary notice of
their arrival was given to the consignee and they were
directed by him to be delivered to a particular steamship,
to which they were delivered, being switched to the lines
of two other carriers and transported to Hamburg. The
Texas & Pacific Railway Company collected freight
charges thereon from the consignee at fifteen cents per
hundred pounds. The consignee at the date of the shipment of the freight resided at New Orleans and was ,engaged in the business ofshipping broker in negotiating
for cargo space, routes, and attending to shipments for
consignors in the United States. The consignees of the
eighteen carloads of logs and staves were engaged at New
Orleans in the business of exporting staves to foreign
countries; the staves they deal in are not treated, manufactured or changed from the original shape in which they
are received at New Orleans for export, and 98% of the
shipments by them at New Orleans are exported to foreign
countries.
At the time of the shipment the rules of the State Railroad Commission allowed four days' free time for unloading cars at New Orleans, except where the consignment

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

was for export, then twenty days were allowed. No demurrage was tendered by the shipper or consignee or received by the carrier on account of delays in handling
beyond the four days allowed by, the rules. Every one
of the 'shipments paid to the carrier three-fourths of a
cent per hundred pounds for handling charges, this being
the amount paid on all export shipments. The shipments were in the physical custody of the railroad company until arrival at New Orleans and thereafter in the
physical custody Gf the steamships, which issued bills of
lading therefor to the shippers of the cargo.
The bills of lading in each instance provided for the
delivery of freight from the initial point to New Orleans,
there to be delivered to the shipper or consignee's order.
But, notwithstanding this, the staves and logs were intended by the shippers to be exported to foreign countries,
and were treated by both the shippers and the carriers
accordingly, the shippers always holding the cars on the
railroad track until they could accumulate cargo to. fill
their export orders and arrange for- transportation. The
railroad company allowed the shippers the usual twenty
days' time for delivery, as in the case of export shipments,
without charging demurrage, which the company would
have had the right to charge, after the expiration of four
days,, if the shipments had been considered and treated
as purely intrastate.
The sole question in the case is whether the shipments
were foreign or intrastate commerce, or, speaking more
accurabd.ly, whether they were within Federal or state
jurisdiction. The Circuit Court and the Circuit Court
of Appeals both decided, as we have seen, that they were
within Federal jurisdiction.
Appellants attack the conclusion and rely on, as the
master relied on, the case of Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe
R. R. Co. v. Texas, supra. The argument is that the
service rendered by the railroad companies was wholly

LOUISIANA R. R. COMM. v. TEX. & PAC. RY. 341
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

within the State and had "no contractual or necessary
relation to foreign transportation." It was, it is argued,
"manifestly preliminary thereto, independently contracted for, and not necessarily connected therewith."
And the principle' is urged that "locality, therefore, determines the jurisdiction [separation between Federal
power and state power] unless it is shown that though
the local movement is actually within, it is legally outside the State." To make the movement within legally
outside of the State, appellants insist there must be bills
of lading and other means of connection between the railroads and the ocean carriers. To make application of
this principle, it is contended that "not a single fact appears or exists, physical. or other which connects the railroads with the ocean carrier" and that the, intention of
the shippers or consignees is made absolutely controlling.
To the principle urged, so far as its applicability to the
case at bar is concerned, we may oppose Southern Pacific
Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 21.9
U. S. 498; Ohio Railroad Commission v. Worthington, 225
U.,S. 101; and Texas & New Orleans R. R. Co. v. Sabine
Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111.
In those cases there was necessarily a local movement
of freight, and it necessarily terminated at the seaboard.
But it was decided that its character and continuity as
a movement in foreign commerce did not terminate, nor
was it affected by being transported on local bills of
lading. The principle enunciated in the cases was that
it is the essential character of the commerce, not the accident of local or through bills of lading, which determines Federal or state control over it. And it takes
character as interstate or foreign commerce when it is
actually started in the course of transportation to another
State or to a foreign country. The facts of the case at
bar bring it within the ruling. The staves and logs were

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

intended by the shippers to be exported to foreign countries, and there was no interruption of their transportation to their destination except what was necessary for
transshipment at New Orleans.
Decree affirmed.

WHEELER v. CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 473.

Argued January 7, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.

The fact that the plaintiff in a taxpayer's suit against a municipality
was solicited to bring the suit and was indemnified against liability
for costs and fees is not enough in itself in the absence of any illegal
purpose to make the case collusive so as to deprive the court of
jurisdiction. Cashman v. Amador Canal Co., 118 U. S. 58, distinguished.
The motives of litigants in seeking Federal jurisdiction are immaterial.
Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 401.
A plaintiff is not to be charged with bad faith in bringing an action
simply because after it was commenced the same issue was raised
and decided adversely in an action between other parties.

Tm case is here on a question of jurisdiction.
The appellants filed a bill in equity in the Circuit Court
for the Eighth Circuit, District of Colorado, against the
City and County of Denver and the other appellees, who
constitute the Public Utilities Commission, to restrain
them from paying out any moneys authorized by the
provisions of an amendment to the charter of the city, and
likewise to restrain them and each of them from issuing
or attempting to issue $8,000,000 of bonds authorized at
an election directed by the amendment to the charter of

