UNITED STATES v. SHELLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. SHELLEY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 943.

Argued April 11, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

The mere mixing of smoking opium with the residue of opium that has
been smoked, and heating the same, is not a manufacture of opium
for smoking purposes within the meaning of § 36 of McKinley Tariff
Law of October 1, 1890.
Criminal statutes ought not to be extended by construction.
A statute which is primarily designed as a taxing act to raise revenue
on, and not one to suppress the manufacture of, a specified article,
will not be construed so as to subject the same substance more
than once to the tax or to require surveillance over places where
the secondary treatment is conducted as well as over the factory of
primary manufacture.
The prohibition against manufacturing smoking opium under § 36 of
the Tariff Act of 1890 is not more extensive than the clause taxing
the article; and if the article produced is not taxable thereunder
there is no violation thereof in its production.

THE facts, which involve the construction of provisions
of §36 of the McKinley Tariff Law in regard to the manufacture of opium, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for the United
States.
Mr. Robert M. Moore for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
We have here under review a judgment of the District
Court sustaining a demurrer to two counts of an indictment for a violation of § 36 of the act of Congress approved
October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26 Stat. 567, 620.

This act is the so-called McKinley Tariff Law, and
provided for the tariff duties to be paid upon articles

imported from foreign countries, and also for the collec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 IT. I.

tion of certain internal revenue taxes. The tariff provisiOns are of course long since superseded. Section 36 reads
as follows: "That an internal-revenue tax of ten dollars
per pound shall be levied and collected upon all opium
manufactured in the United States for smoking purposes;
and no person shall engage in such manufacture who is
not a citizen of the United States and who has not given
the bond required by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue."
The counts in question are the second and third counts
of the indictment. The former of these avers (omitting
formal matters) that, without having given bond, etc.,
the defendant "did engage in the manufacture of opium
for smoking purposes, in and. by employing and using
the process by means of which yen shee, which is the
product or ashes which remains after prepared, or smoking, opium has been used and smoked by the smoker, is
dissolved in water after having been permitted to remain
in solution in water in any receptacle or vessel for a
period of time; furthermore, by means of which the said
aqueous solution of yen shee is strained and purified so as
to remove from the said solution all matter Which is
foreign to such opium as may be contained in the said
yen shee, such matter consisting of the product produced
as the result of the partial combustion of prepared, or
smoking, opium in the course of its use by the smoker
for smoking purposes, and by means of which the said
aqueous solution of yen shee thus strained and purified
is heated and cooked in any receptacle or vessel for a
period of time and until a product-is produced as the
result, among other things, of the evaporation of a part
of the aqueous content of the said solution in the course
of such heating and cooking, which said product thus
remaining is smoking, or prepared, opium of an inferior
grade, and which said product resembles in appearance
and consistency thick molasses, and is opium for smoking

UNITED STATES v. SHELLEY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

purposes, against the peace of the United States and their
dignity, and contrary to the form of the statute," etc.
The third count charges that the defendant, without
having given bond, etc., "did engage in the manufacture
of opium for smoking purposes, in and by employing and
using a process by means of which a high-grade smoking
opium is dissolved in water in any receptacle or container;
and yen shee, which is the product of the partial combustion of smoking, or prepared, opium remaining when the
smoker has used such smoking, or prepared, opium for
smoking purposes, is in like manner dissolved in water,
in any receptacle or container, and the said aqueous solution of yen shee is strained and purified so that all substances contained therein which are foreign to the opium
content in the said- solution, and to the water therein contained, are removed, and which said substances so removed consist of the product produced as the result of
the partial combustion of prepared, or smoking, opium
in the course of its use by the smoker for smoking purposes;
and the said process is, further, that the said aqueous
solution of yen shee thus strained and purified is mixed
with the aforesaid solution of high-grade smoking, or
prepared, opium, and the two solutions thus mixed and
combined are heated and cooked in any receptacle or
vessel over a slow fire until a product is produced by such
heating and cooking and by the evaporation of a part of
the aqueous content of the said combined solution, which
has the consistency and appearance of thick molasses,
and which said product is known as smoking, or prepared,
opium, and which said product is opium prepared for
smoking purposes; against," etc.
This indictment seems to have been framed with the
object of indirectly reviewing Shelley v. United States, 198
Fed. Rep. 88, where the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit reversed a conviction that had been had
in the District Court .Ander a previous indictment, upon
VOL. ccxxix-"16

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

grounds succinctly expressed in the opinion, as. follows
-,(p. 89): "It appears that, when smoking opium has been
produced, it may be smoked more than once. That is to
say, the residuum left after a first smoking may be simply
heated and smoked again. If to this residuum (known as
yen shee) some additional smoking opium is added, each
time it is reheated, the process of resmoking may be
continued longer. We are of the opinion that .the mere
mixing of smoking opium with the residue of opium that
has been smoked, and heating the same is not a 'manufacture of opium for smoking purposes' within the meaning
of. the statute. The manufacture which the statute contemplates is complete when from the crude opium there
has been produced the smoking opium, with which alone,
as defendant contended, he operated, in its unsmoked and
smoked condition.

.

.

We think there was error in

the refusal to charge that, if the jury found that defendant
only mixed smoking opium with the residue which remains after smoking, his act was not a manufacture of
opium for smoking purposes withih the meaning of the
statute."
It appears that the primary manufacture of opium for
smoking purposes is done by treating crude opium in such
manner as to convert it into a different form, thus rendering it fit for smoking. It is conceded that this manufacture
is subject to the tax prescribed by § 36 of the act of 1890.
And see Marks v. United States, 196 Fed. Rep. 476. The
counts now under consideration describe two processes
by which the residuum of opium remaining after smoking
(yen shee), may be reconverted into a form fit for smoking,
in the one case by dissolving it in water, straining and
purifying the solution so as to remove foreign matter, and
then heating and cooking the refined solution, and thereby
producing an inferior grade of smoking opium; the other
process differs in that an admixture of smoking opium of a
high grade is employed together with the yen shee.

UNITED STATES v. SHELLEY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,

In the argument counsel discussed the proper definition
of the term "manufacturing," citing Kidd v. Pearson, 128
U. S. 1, 20; and United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156
U. S. 1, 14; to which may be added Anheuser-Busch Assoc.
v. United States, 207 U. S. 556, 559, which had to do with
the drawback provision of the McKinley law (26 Stat.
567, 617, c. 1244, § 25).
But, aside from the general principle that criminal statutes ought not to be extended by construction, we have
here the additional consideration that this statute was
primarily designed as a taxing act. Section 36 must be
read in connection with the accompanying administrative
provisions, which render it clear that the tax was designed
to yield substantial revenue, and not merely or primarily
to prohibit the manufacture of smoking opium. It may
easily be believed that if (irrespective of constitutional limitations upon its power) Congress were undertaking to
stamp out the practice of opium smoking, it might prohibit
such processes of reclaiming as were charged against the
defendant in the second and third counts of this indictment. But it is not so easy to believe, in the absence of
clear language requiring such a construction, that in prescribing a revenue tax upon the manufacture of opium for
smoking purposes, it intended to subject the same substance more than once to the tax, or to require surveillance
over opium-smoking resorts-in which, it would seem, such
treatment of the residuum might most readily be condueted-the same as over a factory or other establishment
where the primary conversion of crude opium into smoking opium is conducted.
Of course the prohibition is not more extensive than the
taxing clause; and so we are satisfied that the offences
charged in the second-and third counts of this indictment
are not within the denunciation of § 36 of the act.

Judgment affirmed.

