OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for Parties.

229 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST
VIRGINIA.

No. 118.

Argued October 19, 20, 191.-Decided June 10, 1913.

A judgment dismissing, on the merits, an equity action brought by the
Secretary of War against a railroad company to declare a bridge over
a navigable stream to be an unreasonable obstruction and to require
its removal under the act of March 3, 1899, on the ground that the
provisions of the act did not apply, held, in a criminal trial on an
indictment charging the same party with violating the penal provisions of the said act, to be res judicataand decisive of the question.
Quare, how far if at all a statutory grant to erect a bridge over navigable
waters of the United States on specified terms in an act of Congress
without reservation of the right to alter or amend, operates to limit
Congress to directly legislate as to removal or alteration of such
bridge.
Quero what the effect is on subsequent action by Congress of a decree
of a court in an action determining that a bridge was properly erected
over a navigable stream pursuant to grant in an earlier act of Congress.

THE facts, which involve the construction of provisions
of the act of March 3, 1899, in regard to the authority of
the Secretary of War to require alteration of bridges over
navigable waters of the United States, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for the United
States.
Mr. B. M. Ambler, with whom Mr. W. W. Van Winkle
and Mr. M. G. Ambler were on the brief, for defendant in
error.

UNITED STATES v. RALT. & OIIO R. R. CO.
229 U. S.

MR. CHIEF

245

Opinion of the Court.
JUSTICE

WHITE: delivered the opinion of the

court.
This writ of error seeks the reversal of a judgment discharging the defendant in error here from further prosecution under an indictment which alleged a violation of the
act of March 3, 1899, 30 Stat. 1151, c. 425, in refusing to
alter, asdirected by the Secretary of War, a bridge across
the Ohio River, connecting Parkersburg, West Virginia,
and Belpre, Ohio. The case was tried to a jury, and at the
close of the evidence, by direction of the court, a verdict
of not guilty was returned, whereupon the judgment was
entered which is under review.
The facts established by the evidence, so far as material
to be stated, may thus be summarized.
The bridge in question was completed in the year 1871,
in full compliance with an act of Congress approved
July 14, 1862, 12 Stat. e. 167, p. 569, which prescribed
the height, width of span and other requirements for
bridges erected above the Kentucky line (mouth of Big
Sandy River) and in § 5 it was provided: that "any
bridge or bridges erected under the provisions of this act
shall be lawful structures, and shall be recognized and
known as post-routes . . . and that officers and crews
of all vessels, boats, or rafts navigating the said Ohio River
are required to regulate the use of said vessels and of any
pipes or chimneys belonging thereto, so as not to interfere
with the elevation, construction or use of any of the bridges
erected or legalized under the provisions of' this act."
The act contained no express reservation of right to alter
or amend it in any respect.
On October 29, 1904, the United States Attorney for the
Northern District of West Virginia, by direction of the
Attorney General, filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of West Virginia a bill of
complaint' on behalf of the United States against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Parkersburg Branch Railroad Company, a West Virginia
corporation, John W. Davis, its receiver, and the Baltimore
& Ohio Railroad Company. The bill in effect charged
that the bridge in question was owned, operated and controlled by the defendants, that the bridge had been constructed under the act of 1862, and averments were made
as to the provisions of various statutes subsequently
passed by Congress concerning the construction of bridges
across the Ohio River, viz., § 7 of the act of December 17,
1872, 17 Stat. 398, c. 4, and §§ 2 and 4 of the act of February 14, 1883, 22 Stat. 414, c. 44, and the provisions of
other statutes conferring additional powers upon the
Secretary of War in regard to the control and regulation
of the navigable waters of the United States, viz., §§ 4
and 7 of the act of September 19, 1890, 26 Stat. 426, c. 907,
and § 9 of the act of March 3, 1899, 30 Stat. 1151, c. 425.
In substance it was charged that the spans of the bridge
in question-the present main span being 349 feet in
width and the adjacent span of the same width-were
wholly inadequate to accommodate the present commerce
of the Ohio River at, the point where built and constituted
a serious and dangerous obstruction to the navigation of
the Ohio River at such point, and it was averred that the
Secretary of War under the supervisory power conferred
uPon him by the statutes referred to "in recent years has
required that all bridges over the Ohio River shall have
channel spans ranging from six hundred to eight hundred
feet in length." It was further averred that the railroad
company, under the pretense of renewing the old bridge
was erecting a new structure on the site of the old, despite
the fact that the Government "through its proper officers"
had refused to grant authority so to do, except "on condition of removing the pier between spans 38 and 39 of the
said bridge and uniting spans 38 and 39 in one span, thus
making the channel span to the said bridge approximately
698 feet. It was also alleged "that the construction of

UNITED STATES v. BALY & OHIO R. R. CO.
229 U. S.

247

Opinion of the Court.

this proposed new bridge, without the consent or approval
of the United States, to which is entrusted by the Constitution the protection of this great waterway of commerce
among the several States, will be in violation of law, and
to the great and irreparable injury of the United States
and the commercial interests entrusted to its care." The
prayer of the bill was as follows:
"Your orator avers that there is no adequate remedy
at law in the premises, and therefore prays that a temporary restraining order enjoining the defendants, their
agents, servants, employds, workmen, contractors, and
others whomsoever, from constructing or proceeding to
construct the contemplated bridge or any bridge across
the Ohio River from Parkersburg to Belpre, with a channel span of not less than 698 feet, and without the consent
of Congress and the approval of the Secretary of War and
the Chief of Engineers, until the final hearing of this cause,
when your orator prays that such temporary injunction
may be made perpetual; and that the existing bridge operated by the said railroad company between Parkersburg,
West Virginia, and Belpre, Ohio, be declared and decreed
to be an unreasonable obstruction to the navigation of
the Ohio River, and that the said railroad company be
required within a reasonable time to remove the same, or
replace same with such a bridge as shall conform to existing law. And your orator prays for such other relief as
may be proper in the premises."
The defendants, in their answer, recited the history of
the bridge and alleged it to be a lawful structure, and
averred that under the authority vested by the act of
1862, they possessed the right to maintain the bridge not
only during the life of the first superstructure thereof, but
by the renewal of the superstructure from time to time as
might be required for the maintenance of the bridge as a
post route, etc., It was expressly averred that the defendants were proceeding merely to renew the superstructure

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

of the bridge by providing a steel superstructure of much
greater weight and strength, than that now in use, and
that it was not contemplated or intended to make any
change whatever in the piers of the bridge, any lowering
of the height of the channel spans, or any other change
which in any respect or in any degree will, or can possibly
affect the navigation of the Ohio River at the point where
the bridge stands.
The motion for a permanent injunction as prayed in the
bill was heard upon bill, answer and affidavits, and was
decided on February 4, 1905, in an opinion by District
Judge Jackson. The injunction was refused. (134 Fed.
Rep. 969.) It was held that the construction of the bridge
under the authority conferred by the act of 1862 created a
vested right to the use of the bridge of which the defendants could not be. deprived without just compensation.
It was also held that the defendants were not building or
attempting to build a new bridge, but were simply replacing the old superstructure and that "the right to repair
the bridge, to alter it or to improve it, for the safety of the
public, is incident to the power to build it.", The court
thus concluded the opinion (p. 972):
"It must appear from what we have said that an injunction furnishes no remedy for the grievances complained of in the bill. This is the third application that
has been made for an injunction, before the judges of this
court, against the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company,
involving the act of 1862. Judge Goff heard the case of
the United States against the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
Company, which was an application for an injunction to
prevent reconstruction of the Benwood Bridge. He dismissed the bill on March 27, 1900. Judge Goff and I
heard the case of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company
against Leidecker, one of the United States engineers, in
which the same question was involved, in which, upon a
review of the case decided by Judge Goff, as well as the

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO.
229 U. S.

249

Opinion of the Court.

case then under consideration, we reached the conclusion
that the United States could not interfere with the reconstruction of the superstructure of the bridge which was
built under the act of 1862. And now we have this application, which I have under consideration, involving the
same question. It would seem to me that the action of
the court heretofore had in previous cases should be adhered to in this case. In all the cases the judges of this
court, either sitting alone or together, have reached the
conclusion that the act of 1872 and those acts subsequent
thereto do not in anywise affect the rights of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company in relation to any and
all of the bridges built under the act of 1862.
"For the reasons assigned, the court is of the opinion
to refuse the injunction in this case, and suggests that the
only remedy is to apply to Congress for an act to remove
the bridge, if it is such an obstruction to navigation as to
justify their action, upon such terms and conditions that
the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company should receive
compensation for the destruction of the bridge."
A decree denying the motion for a permanent injunction
was entered on February 27, 1905, and an appeal therefrom was prosecuted to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The assignment of errors filed in that court, omitting title
of cause and signature of attorneys, is as follows:
. "And now on the 14th day of March, 1905, comes the
said plaintiff, the United States of America, by Reese
Blizzard, United States attorney for the Northern District of West Virginia, duly authorized to appear in this
behalf by the Attorney General of the United States, and
-says:
"That the decree entered in said cause is erroneous and
.against the just rights of the said -plaintiff for the following
reasons:
"First. Because the court erred in overruling and denying the motion of the plaintiff to grant the permanent in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

junction prayed for by the plaintiff's bill, and heard on
the 30th day of November, 1904.
"Second. Because the evidence showed that the said
bridge was a serious and unreasonable obstruction to the
navigation of the Ohio River, a navigable river of the
United States.
"Third. Because the court erred in entering the order
entered by it of record in the said cause on the 27th day of
February, 1905.
"Wherefore the said plaintiff prays that the said decree
be reversed and that the said court may be directed to
enter a decree in accordance with the prayer of the bill."
The appeal was decided on February 6, 1906, and, substantially upon the grounds upon which the Circuit Court
rested its conclusions, it was held that error was not committed in refusing to grant the injunction. 143 Fed. Rep.
224.,
Nine months after the decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, just referred to, the Secretary of War-assuming
to act under the authority of § 18 of the River and Harbor
Act of March 3, 1899-gave to the railroad company, the
defendant, the notice the failure to obey which was made
the basis of the indictment. The notice stated that the
bridge in question was an unreasonable obstruction to the
free navigation of the Ohio River, on account of insufficient length of channel spans, and ordered "the removal
of pier No. 38, and the conversion of spans Nos. 38 and
39 into one channel span," by December 1, 1908.
The case was heard upon an agreed statement of facts
practically embodying the essential facts presented in the
equity cause and the other facts to which we have referred
above; and the record in the equity cause was admitted
in evidence over the objection of immateriality and an
exception by the Government. It was also agreed that
the necessary cost and expense of altering the bridge in
the manner specified in the notice of the Secretary. of War

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & O10 R. R. CO.
229 U. S.

251

Opinion of the Court.

"would exceed five hundred thousand dollars, and would
entail great loss and inconvenience to the defendant in the
conduct of its business." At the close of the evidence,
the court, as we have stated, instructed the jury to return
a verdict of not guilty which was done. The instruction
rested upon the hypothesis "that the legal and vested right
to maintain this bridge in its present condition has been
judicially determined by courts of competent jurisdiction"
in the' equity cause to which we; have referred: To the
action of the court, the United States duly excepted.
Thereupon judgment was entered discharging the railroad
company from further prosecution- upon the indictment,
etc., and this direct writ of error was sued out as authorized by the act of 1899.
In substance, it is assigned that the court erred in admitting in evidence the record in the equity case and in
instructing the jury_ to acquit the defendant. As the
Circuit Court based its action in directing the verdict of
not guilty upon the doctrine of res judicata, it is apparent
that the effect of the proceedings in the equity cause is
the matter to be determined.
The section of the River and Harbor Act of March 3,
1899,'30 Stat. 1121, 1153, c. 425, from which the authority to issue the notice in question was derived, reads as
follows:
"SEc. 18. That whenever the Secretary of War shall
have good reason to believe that any railroad or other
bridge now constructed or which may hereafter be constructed, over any of the navigable waterways of the
United States is an unreasonable obstruction to the free
navigation of such waters on account of insufficient height,
width of span, or otherwise, or where there is difficulty in
passing the draw opening or the draw span of such bridge
by rafts, steamboats, or other water craft, it shall be the
duty of the said Secretary, first giving the parties reasonable opportunity to be heard, to give notice to the persons

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

or corporations owning, or controlling such bridge so to
alter the same as to render navigation through or under it
reasonably free, easy, and unobstructed; and in giving
such notice he shall specify the changes recommended
by the Chief of Engineers that are required to be made,
and shall prescribe in each case a reasonable time in which
to make them. If at the end of such time the alteration
has not been made, the Secretary of War shall forthwith
notify the United States district attorney for the district
in which such bridge is situated, to the end that the criminal proceedings hereinafter mentioned may be taken.
if the persons, corporation, or association owning or controlling any railroad or other bridge shall, after receiving
notice to that effect, as hereinbefore required, from the
Secretary of War, and within the time prescribed by him
wilfully fail or refuse to remove the same or to comply
with the lawful order of the Secretary of War in the
premises, such persons, corporation, or association shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction
thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five
tliousand dollars, and every month such persons, corporation or association shall remain in default in respect to
the removal or alteration of such bridge shall be deemed a
new offense, and subject the persons, corporation, or
association so offending to the penalties above prescribed:
Provided, That in any case arising under the provisions of
this section an appeal or writ of error may be taken from
the district courts or from the existing circuit courts direct
to the Supreme Court either by the United States or by,
the defendants."
Two Attorneys General have delivered opinions that this
act was not applicable to the bridge here in question. 22
Opin. Atty. Gen. 346; 25 Ib.194.
Unlike the statutes thereafter enacted nowhere in the
act of 1862, by which the authority to build the bridge was
conferred and under which it was built, was there an

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO.
229 U. S.

253

Opinion of the Court.

express reservation of a right to alter or amend the act in
any respect. So, also, it is not questioned that the bridge
was constructed in exact conformity to the requirements
of the statute and that it has been so maintained ever
since. No statute has been passed expressly condemning
the structure as an obstruction to navigation, or ordering
its removal or alteration. Indeed when the equity cause
was commenced the act of March 3, 1899, was operative
and under its provisions prior to the commencement of
that suit the Secretary of War had been seeking to compel
the railroad company to alter the bridge precisely in the
mode directed in the notice upon which the indictment at
bar is based. It is not contended that the institution of
the equity cause was directed by Congress and it manifestly was brought directly or indirectly through the
procurement of the Secretary of War in order to carry into
effect his conception of his duty to compel the radical alterations deemed essential to be made in the width of the
channel spans. An issue plainly presented in the equity
cause was whether the bridge in question was subject to
the act of 1899, and was within the jurisdiction of the
Secretary of War under that act and whether the Government had the right to enforce the decision of the Secretary,
that pier 38 should be removed and one span made from
pier 37 to pier 39; and among other things the defendant
denied that the act of 1899 had application or that the
Secretary possessed jurisdiction in the premises. The
final adjudication of the Circuit Court of Appeals necessarily decided this issue adversely to the Government,
and conclusively determined as between the parties that
the Secretary had no power over the bridge and that the
structure in its present condition was not subject to the
act of 1899. We are of opinion, therefore, that as against
action by the Secretary of War, the decree in the equity
cause was properly held to be res judicata as to the facts
averred in the indictment and as decisive of the question,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

that in the absence of changed conditions the bridge in
question was not subject to the act of 1899. How far,
if at all, the grant of the right to build the bridge under
the terms specified in the act of 1862, with no .reservation
of the right to alter or amend, will operate to limit the
power of Congress to directly legislate on the subject of
the removal or alteration of the bridge is a question we
are not here concerned With and therefore express no
opinion upon it. And of course, we also express no opinion
as to how far the decree in the equity cause would be applicable in case of such direct action by Congress.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE PITNEY, not being a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part in its consideration.

ROBERTSON v. HOWARD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 320.

SubmittedLMay 7, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.

This court follows the ruling of the state court on the question whether
contracts between the purchaser and the State convey such an
equitable title that the certificates of purchase are real estate.
The bankruptcy court is not confined in the administration of the
property of the bankrupt to state or district boundaries; nor is it
necessary to institute independent or ancillary proceedings in the
different States in which the bankrupt's property is situated, or to
conform to the provisions of the act of 1893 prescribing the method
of selling real estate under orders and decrees of courts of the United
States.
General Order XVIII in Bankruptcy does not contemplate that the
act of 1893 be followed in sales of real estate.

