MACKAY v. UINTA CO.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MACKAY v. UINTA DEVELOPMENT COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 190.

Argued March 14, 17, 1913--Decided May 26, 1913.

Where the defects in service of process and in procedure in the state
court are waivable, and after removal there is presented to the
Circuit Court a controversy involving more than $2,000 and between citizens of different States, that court has jurisdiction and
the method of getting the case before the court cannot operate to
deprive it of jurisdiction.
Rem6val proceedings are in the nature of process to bring the parties
before the Federal court.
The defendant may waive defects in removal proceedings if jurisdiction
actually exists, and if he does so the court will not of its own motion
inquire into the regularity of the proceedings.

facts, which involve the validity of the removal of
this cause from the state to the Federal court and the
jurisdiction of the latter thereover, are stated in the
opiion.
THE

Mr. Barnard J. Stewart, with whom Mr. Charles B.
Stewart, Mr. Samuel W.'Stewart and Mr. Daniel Alexander

were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John W. Lacey for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

On December 8, 1908, the Uinta Development Company, a corporation of the State of Wyoming, brought an
action in a Wyoming court against John C. Mackay, a
resident and citizen of Utah, to recover $1,950 damages

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

for a trespass upon land of the Development Company,
situated in Wyoming.
On January 8, 1909, Mackay duly filed his answer. On
March 2 the plaintiff, by leave-of court, filed an amended
petition, which Mackay answered. On May 3 he filed an
amended answer, which, in addition to denying
many of
the allegations of the amended petition, set up acounterclaim for $3,000 damages.
The claims of the parties were so related that either
could have been interposed as a counter-claim to the other;
or they could have been determined in different suitssubject to the provision that, under the Wyoming statute,
a defendant who failed to set up his counter-claim and
subsequently made it the subject of a separate action
could not recover costs if he prevailed therein. No Federal
question was presented in the plaintiff's suit or defendant's
original answer, but Mackay's amended answer and
counter-claim were grounded upon certain statutes of the
United States. This counter-claim for $3,000 was filed
after the expiration of the time in which he was required to
plead to the original petition.
But, notwithstanding the delay, Mackay, the nonresident, without objection on the part of the Development
Company, filed in the state court a petition to remove
the case, to the United States Circuit Court for the District of Wyoming. An order removing the case was
granted on the theory that the parties were citizens of
different States; that the construction of the Federal
statutes was necessarily involved, and that the amount
in dispute, as disclosed by the counter-claim, exceeded
$2,000. The transcript was duly filed in the United
States court. Both parties appeared. The plaintiff filed
in the United States court a reply to Mackay's counterclaim, and the case, which was docketed as "Uinta
Development Company v. John C. Mackay," was submitted to the court for determination without a jury.

MACKAY v. UINTA CO.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Judgment was entered in favor of the Development
Company and thereupon Mackay took the case to the'
Circuit Court of Appeals, assigning errors relating to
rulings made in the course of the trial, but neither party
raised any question as to its power to determine the
cause. On these facts the Circuit Court of Appeals certified to this court various questions as to whether Mackay
could remove the case to the United States court, among
them the following:
4. "Assuming that the removal at the instance of
Mackay was not in conformity with the removal statute,
and assuming that as respects his claim against the
Development Company all the jurisdictional elements
were present which were essential to enable the Circuit
Court to take cognizance thereof, if he had commenced an
action thereon in that court, and assuming that in such an
action the Development Company lawfully could have set
up its claim as a counter-claim and thereby have enabled
the court to take cognizance thereof, Did the parties by
appearing in the Circuit Court and there litigating both
claims to a final conclusion in a single cause, without
any objection to the jurisdiction of the court or to the
manner in which its jurisdiction was invoked, enable that
court to take cognizance of the controversy and to proceed
to a final judgment therein with like effect as if they had
invoked the jurisdiction of that court in the first instance
through an action commenced therein by Mackay-upon
his claim and through the interposition by the Development Company of its claim as a couinter-claim in that
action?"
This question must be answered in the affirmative and
that fact makes it unnecessary to consider the status of the
parties
in the state court and who was technical plaintiff
and who
technical defendant, or whether Mr ckay,
a
non-resident defendant, sued in a state court for $1,950,
could, by filing a counter-claim for $3,000, acquire the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

right to remove the case to the United States court.
The case was removed in fact, and, while the parties could
not give jurisdiction by consent, there was the requisite
amount and the diversity of citizenship necessary to give
the United States Circuit Court jurisdiction of the cause.
The case, therefore, resolves itself into an inquiry as to
Whether, if irregularly removed, it could be lawfully tried
and determined.
Removal proceedings are in the nature of process to
bring the parties before the United States court. As in
other forms of process, the litigant has the right to rely
upon the' statute and to insist that, in compliance with its
terms, the case shall be taken from the state to the Federal court in the proper district, on motion of the proper
person, at the proper time, and on giving the proper
bond. But these provisions are for the benefit of the
defendant and intended to secure his appearance. When
that result is accomplished by his voluntary attendance,
the court will 'not, of its own motion, inquire as to the
regularity of the issue or service of the process,-or, indeed, whether there was any process at all, since it could
be waived, in whole or in part, either expressly or by
failing seasonably to object. Powers v. C. & 0. Ry., 169
U. S. 92, 98.
What took place in the state court may, therefore, be
disregarded by the court because it was waived by the
parties, and regardless of the manner in which the case was
brought or how the attendance of the parties in the United
States court was secured, there was presented to the
Circuit Court a controversy between citizens of different
States in which the amount claimed by one non-resident
was more than $2,000, exclusive of interest and costs.
As the court had jurisdiction of the subject-matter the
parties could have been realigned by making Mackay
plaintiff and the Development Company defendant, if
that had been found proper. But if there was any irreg-

TEX. & PAC. RY. CO. v. PRATER.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ularity in docketing the case or in the order of the pleadings such an irregularity was waivable and neither it nor
the method of getting the parties before the court operated
to deprive it of the power to determine the cause.
The Fourth question certified to us by the Circuit Court of
Appeals is answered in the affirmative.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
PRATER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 211.

Submitted April 15, 1913.-, Decided May 26, 1913.

There ,being evidence to sustain the verdict that plaintiff was not

guilty of contributory negligence, the court below properly denied
a motion to direct a verdict for the defendant, and this court affirms
the judgment with ten per cent. damages.
183 Fed. Rep. 574, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment against a railroad company for personal injuries sustained by one of its employ~s, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. W. L. Hall for plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. C. Prater, pro se, and Mr. A. W. Gregg for defendlant in error.
Memorandum opinion, by direction of the court, by
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR.

The plaintiff, a locomotive engineer, sued for personal
injuries resulting from a collision with a freight train
VOL. ecxxix.-12,

