OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

The record shows no written consent, nor any entry
upon the journal of oral consent. It does show that the
action was in form an action in equity, normally triable
without jury, and it further shows a trial of the issues
before the court without a jury, in which trial the now
plaintiff in error participated in person and by attorney,
without taking any exception to the mode of trial.
The state courts did not pass upon the question whether
under the local practice this amounted to a waiver of a
demand for jury trial; both courts having entertained
the view that the cause was properly brought in equity,
in which case there was no right to trial by jury.
We deem it clear that in order to entitle himself to a
review here under,§ 709, Rev. Stat., on the ground of a
deprivation of the right to trial by jury, plaintiff in error
should have "specially set up" his alleged right in proper
time in the state court, and should not have relied upon
a premature assertion of that right, contained in a demurrer where it had no proper place, and not reiterated at any time when there was an issue of fact to be
tried.
Writ of errordismissed.

MORSE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL

No. 274.

FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Argued May 2, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

A naval officer who had been retired under § 23 of the act of 1861 for
disability not originating in the line of duty and afterwards transferred to the three-quarter pay list under § 1558, 1Rev. Stat., by authority of a special act of Congress, held, not entitled to advanced
pay to which officers retired on account of wounds or disabil-

MORSE v. UNITED STATES.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ity incident to the service are entitled under the act of June 29,
1906.
There being nothing in the record to show that any injustice was done
by the Retiring Board in retiring an officer of the navy for disability
not originating in the line of duty, a special act of Congress subsequently passed for his relief and, placing him on a list by which he
receives increased pay, will not be construed as one relieving him
from wrong and injustice and giving him the benefits of officers
retired for disabilities incident to the service.
46 Ct. Cl. 361, affirmed.

which involve the construction of the acts
of Congress relating to pay of retired naval officers, are
stated in the opinion.
THE facts,

Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. Win. B. King was
on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Frederick De C. Faust, Acting Assistant Attorney
General, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the

court.
The question in this case is whether the appellant, an
officer on the retired list of the Navy, is entitled to the
difference between the retired pay of a lieutenant and that
of a lieutenant commander, from the date of the passage,
of the act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 553, 554, c. 3590. At
the time of his retirement he held the rank of lieutenant.
The act referred to provides that any officer not above
the grade of captain, whose name is borne on the official
register of the Navy, and having certain other qualifications that the appellant concededly possesses, "and who
has heretofore been, or may hereafter be, retired on account
of wounds or disability incident to the service

may, in the discretion of the President, by and with the
voL. ccxxix-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

advice and consent of the Senate, be placed on the ret ired
list of the Navy with the rank and retired pay of one
grade above that actually held by him at the time of
retirement."
Appellant had served in the Navy during the Civil
War, and thereafter until July 22, 1874, when he was
retired on furlough pay upon approval by the President
of the finding of a Retiring Board that he was ineapacitated for performing the duties of his office, and that the
incapacity did not originate in the line of duty. The
Retiring Board acted under § 23 of the act of August 3,
1861, 12 Stat. 287, 291, c. 42, now §§ 1448 to 1457 of the
Revised Statutes. Afterwards, and on .July 17, 1878, und(er
the provisions of § 1594, Rev. Stat.,. lie was transferred
by the President, with the consent of the Senate, from
the furlough to the retired-pay list, and thereafter received 50 per centum of the highest sea pay of his grade
as lieutenant.
On June 26, 1902, he was transferred from the half-pay
list to the three-quarters pay list, under the authority
of a special act of Congress, approved June 10, 1902,
32 Stat. 1444, c. 1075, which reads as follows: "Be it enacted, etc., that the Secretary of the Navy be, and he
is hereby, authorized and empowered to transfer Lieutenant Jerome E. Morse, of the retired list of the United
States Navy, from the half-pay list of the seventy-five
per centum pay list of retired officers, under section
fifteen hundred and eighty-eight of the Revised Statutes
of the United States; and the said transfer shall take
effect as of the passage of this Act."
The section of the Revised Statutes therein referred
to is as follows: "See. 1588. The pay of all officers of the
Navy who have been retired after forty-five years' service
after reaching the age of sixteen years, or who have been
or may be retired after forty years' service, upon their
own application to the President, or on attaining the age

MORSE v. UNITED STATES.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of sixty-two years, or on account of incapacity resulting
from long and faithful service, from wounds or injuries
received in the line of duty, or from sickness or exposure
therein, shall, when not on active duty, be equal to seventyfive per centum of the sea-pay provided by this chapter
for the grade or rank which they held, respectively, at
the time of their retirement. The pay of all other officers
on the retired list shall, when not on active duty, be equal
to one-half the sea-pay provided by this chapter for the
grade or rank held by them, respectively, at the time of
their retirement."
In January, 1907, appellant was nominated by the
President for advancement to the grade of lieutenant
commander bn the retired list, in accordance with the provisions of the act of June 29, 1906, first above mentioned;
the nomination was confirmed by the Senate, and the
appellant was shortly afterwards advised in the usual
mode by the Secretary of the Navy that he had been
advanced from June 29, 1906, the date of the passage
of the act.
The question is, whether the appellant (having all
other qualifications for advancement under the act referred to) is to be considered as having been retired for
disability incident to the service; and this depends upon
the question whether the special act of June 10, 1902,
operated to change his status from that of an officer
retired for incapacity not incident to the service, to
that of an officer retired for incapacity incident to the
service.
The Court of Claims resolved this question against the
claimant (46 Ct. Claims, 361). This we think is correct.
The case is in effect governed by Potts v. United States,
125 U. S. 173, and United States v. Burchard, 125 U. S.
176.
The argument to the contrary is based upon the act of
June 10, 1902. Its title is-" An act for the relief of Lieu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

tenant Jerome E. Morse." This is invoked as an aid in
interpreting the meaning of the enactment. The query
propounded is, "What was the relief that Congress intended to grant the claimant unless it was relief from the
consequences of the wrong and injustice that had been
done him by the Retiring Board in 1874?" But this
query begs the whole question. There is nothing in the
record- to show that any wrong or injustice was done by
the action of the Retiring Board. The answer to the query
is, we think, written in unmistakable terms in the act
itself, and in § 1588, Rev. Stat., to which it refers. The
intended relief consisted in an increase of pay, measured
by the difference between half-pay and three-quarters
pay, for the rank that he held at the time of his retirement; that is to say, for the rank of lieutenant.
The case differs widely from McLean v. United States,
226 U. S. 374, and is not controlled by it.
Judgment affirmed.

CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK OF ROSWELL, NEW
MEXICO, v. DAVISSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.

No. 551.

Argued December 4, 1912.-Decided May 26, 1913.

Under the act of April 7, 1874, c. 80, § 2, the review by this court of
judgments of the Supreme Court of a Territory is confined to determining whether the facts found by the court below sustain the judgment.
The facts found are certified to this court by the territorial Supreme
Court either by adopting the findings of the trial court or by making
separate findings of its own,

