OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

COMPANY v. MORGAN,
POSTMASTER IN NEW YORK CITY.

LEWIS PUBLISHING

JOURNAL OF COMMERCE AND COMMERCIAL
BULLETIN v. BURLESON, POSTMASTER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES.1
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 819, 818.

Argued December 2, 3, 1912.-Decided June 10, 1913.

From the beginning Congress, in exerting its power under the Constitution to establish post-offices, has acted upon the assumption
that it is not bound by any hard and fast rule of uniformity, and
has always. assumed the right to classify in its broadest sense.
Congress always has given, and subject only to the express limitations
of the Constitution, can give, special mail advantages to favor the
circulation of newspapers, and has also fixed the general standard
and imposed conditions upon which these privileges can be obtained.
The provisions in § 2 of the Post Office Appropriation Act of 1912
regarding publications and conditions under which they can be
carried in the mail construed and held, that:
Those provisions are intended simply to supplement existing
legislation relative to second class mail matter, and not as an exertion of legislative power to regulate the press, curtail its freedom or
to deprive one not complying therewith of all right to use the mail
service.
A provision in a departmental appropriation act gives rise to the
inference that it concerns the general subject under control of that
Department.
A provision in a post-office appropriation act referring to the
enterinj of mail matter refers to second class mail as that is the
only class to which the word "enter" can apply.
Requirements in the second paragraph of a statutory provision
held to apply to articles enumerated in the preceding paragraph
See post, p. 600, for proceedings on motion for restraining order in
this case.

LEWIS PUBLISHING CO. v. MORGAN.
229 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

when the words used cannot otherwise be reasonably construed,
and when it also appears that as passed by the first enacting
chamber the two paragraphs subsequently divided were embodied
inone paragraph.
A penalty of denial of the privileges of the mail for failure to
comply with requirements applicable only to second class matter
does not amount to entire exclusion from use of the mail.
Requirements in regard to publications entitled to be entered as
second class mail and sanctioned by the penalty of exclusion from
the' privileges of such second class, are not to be construed as independent regulation of such publications, but only as condition
precedent to retaining the privileges of second class mail after
entry of the publication; and so held as to the provision that paid
for matter in periodicals must be marked "advertisement " under
penalty of exclusion from the privileges of the mail.
Legislative history of a statute can be examined to enable the
court to construe it.
The requirements in § 2 of the Post Office Appropriation Act of 1912
that certain specified information be presented to the Postmaster
General and that all paid for matter, editorial and otherwise, be
marked "advertisement" under penalty of exclusion from the privileges of the mail, held, not to be an unconstitutional abridgment of
the freedom of the press protected by the First Amendment or a
denial of due process of law under the Fifth Amendment, or as a
denial of the use of the mail, but only a requirement relating to
second class mail matter sanctioned by exclusion from the privileges of the mail in that regard.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality and construction of the provisions in the Post Office Appropriation
Act of 1912 in regard to privileges of second class r ail
matter accorded to magazines and other publications, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. James M. Beck, for Lewis Publishing Company,
appellant in No. 819:
To adopt the Government's narrow construction of this
statute would be judicial legislation. Its provisions are
plain and free from ambiguity. Failure to comply with
its requirements subjects "every newspaper" to a denial
voL. ccxxIx-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

229 U. S.

of "the privileges of the mails "-not the advantages of
second class rates only, but the privilege of using the mail
for any purpose.
The act has been thus interpreted by the Attorney
General, the Postmaster General, the press and the public. Its position in the appropriation act confirms this
interpretation, for it is not included in the subdivision
relating to second class matter, but in that which deals
with miscellaneous and general legislation. The views
expressed by its proponents in Congress confirm the same
interpretation.
The -present attempt to restrict its meaning was an
afterthought to save its constitutionality.
While it is true that this court will accept of two "reasonably susceptible" interpretations the one which is most
free from constitutional objection, yet this court should
not, in applying this salutary doctrine legislate by reconstructing a statute. United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214;
James v. Bowman, 190 U. S. 127.
Either construction of the statute, however, -makes it
unconstitutional. The difference is one of degree but not
of kind. Congress can neither enlarge the powers of
the Federal Government over the newspaper press by the
duress of exclusion from the mails nor by the inducement
of preferential rates. In either event such a statute is an
attempted "accomplishment of objects not entrusted to
the Government" and therefore "not the law of the land."
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 423. Otherwise Congress could indirectly legislate as to many matters which,
under the Tenth Amendment, were reservdd to the States,
.by the simple device of compelling a citizen to do things,
in themselves beyond Federal power, if he wishes to use
the mails, and such a privilege being vital, the citizen
would have no choice but, obedience to an unconstitutional
statute.
This case draws sharply the vital issue between an

LEWIS PUBLISHING CO. v, MORGAN.
229 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

arbitrary and unrestricted Government and a restricted
and free Government. Either Congress has, as the Solicitor General contends, the power to prescribe absolutely
the conditions on which the citizen shall use the mails or
Congress has only the power to prescribe such conditions
as to the use of the mails as have a legitimate and appropriate reference to the carriage of the mails.
No encouragement is found for the former view in the
decisions of this court. While asserting the exclusive and
plenary power of Congress over interstate commerce (see
Lottery Cases, 188 U. S. 331), this court denied that even
a plenary power could be "arbitrary." Similarly, while
this court has recognized the plenary power of Congress to
determine what shall and what shall not be carried in the
mails, yet such general expressions cannot sanction an
arbitrary use of such power or justify statutory conditions
imposed upon the exercise of a vital right, which have
no legitimate relation to the carriage of the mails. Otherwise there would follow an indefensible extension of Federal power, of which neither the generation that framed
the Constitution nor any succeeding generation until the
present would have dreamed of as a possibility.
This current doctrine of the right to pervert Federal
powers to accomplish extra-constitutional ends can be
justly characterized as "nullification by indirection."
It is not the doctrine of this court, as is shown by the
earlier decisions in Marbury v. Madison, 1 -Cranch, 138,
and McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 423, and the later
decisions in the Lottery Cases, 188 U. S. 331, the Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, and Adair v. United
States, 208 U. S. 161.
The other line of cases, commencing with Veazie v.
Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, and ending with McCray v. United
States, 105 U. S. 27, are not inconsistent. They were cases
of express powers and arose under the \taxing clause of the
Constitution. This power is sui gencris and cxhausts

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

229 U. S.

definition and a statute which on its face is a taxing statute
cannot, except under very extraordinary circumstances,
be invalidated by attributing to Congress a purpose other
than to raise revenue. Moreover, the power to tax as a
means to regulate industry was recognized long before the
Constitution and has been recognized ever since.
A different question arises where the exercise of an alleged implied power is under consideration. Such power
is confronted with the Tenth Amendment and can only
be sustained under the power "to make all laws necessary
and proper for carrying into execution the powers" expressly granted to Congress. A statute, therefore, like
the present one, which claims to be thus "necessary and
proper" must find its justification not only in the letter of
the Constitution but in the facts of human life. To apply
the acid test of Chief Justice Marshall (McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 423), it must be "appropriate" and
"plainly adapted" and "consistent with the letter and
spirit of the Constitution." This court has nullified nineteen acts of Congress because they were not as matter of
fact plainly adapted to carry out the alleged constitutional
grant and this legislation is of that class._
The statute also abridges the freedom of the press. The
First Amendment means in substance that no burden or
restriction should be imposed upon the press, excepting
only in matters of recognized morality and subject always
to responsibility at common law for libelous statements.
The history, which preceded the First Amendment, clearly
shows that it was made to prevent a censorship of the
press either by anticipation through a licensing system or
retrospectively by obstruction or punishment.'
The compulsory disclosure to the public of
the circulation of a newspaper is calculated to impair its influence
and violate the privacy of its business. By compelling a
public disclosure of the editors and owners of newspapes,
the right to disseminate ideas impersonally is destroyed.

LEWIS PUBLISHING CO. v. MORGAN.
229 U. S.

Argument for the United States.,

At the time the Constitution was adopted, nothing was
more familiar to its framers than ,impersonal journalism.
To this day we do not accurately know who wrote the
letters of "Junius," and when the Constitution was
adopted the most valuable arguments in its support were
submitted anonymously by Madison, Hamilton, Jay and
many others.
To compel a newspaper to use its own capital, labor
facilities and valuable space, to disclose the most intimate
secrets of its business to the public, is also a taking of
private property without due process of law and without
just compensation.
To concede to Congress the power to utilize the mails
to discipline the free press of the country would hereafter
mean a stricter and more dangerous censorship, for in. the
matter of arbitrary power, "the appetite grows by what
it feeds on."
Mr. Robert C. Morris, with whom Mr. Guthrie B. Plante
was on the brief, for Journal of Commerce, appellant in
No. 818.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
The statute means that in order to obtain the low,
second class postage rates all newspapers must comply
with two requirements, to-wit:
(A) File with the Post Office Department and publish
in the paper the name of the editor; and
(B) Mark as an advertisement any article for the publication of which the newspaper receives compensation;
and, in default of so complying, shall be denied the second
class postal rates.
The intent of Congress as deduced from the legislative
history of the statute shows that Congress in its final
enactment of the bill had the same intent that the House
had, in originally passing it, namely, merely to exclude

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

229 U. S.

from the second class mail privileges all publications that
(lid not comply with the requirements laid down in the
act. The changes in the bill all related to the terms of the
requirements, and were not intended to affect the broad
principle that Congress (pursuant to its power to decide
what should be carried by its mails) was limiting the use
of the second class mail privileges to those newspapers
that would comply with certain regulations which Congress felt it wise to impose as conditions upon such use.
A reasonable construction of the language used shows
that the act only applies to newspapers using, or desiring
to use, the second class mail privileges.
The words "this paragraph" refer to the whole subject
of newspaper regulation.
The purpose of the special penalty for violating the advertisement clause is to enable the post office to properly
enforce the act.
The true construction that should be adopted is, First,
That Congress did not attempt to regulate all newspapers,
magazines, etc., but only those that used the second class
mail privileges; Second, That Congress prescribed certain
things which those publications must do in order to continue the use of the second class privileges; Third, That
Congress denied the use of the second-class privileges only
to such publications as, after ten days' notice, still refused
to comply therewith; and, Fourth, That Congress prescribed a moderate fine for any publication which (while
complying with the first paragraph and thereby securing
the continued use of the mails) inserted paid-for articles
without marking them "advertisement."
This construction should be adopted, as any other
might invalidate the statute.
Under the power to establish post offices and post roads,
Congress has the absolute right to determine what matter
may be carried in and what matter may be excluded from
the mails; and it may declare the conditions on which it

LEWIS PUBLISHING CO. V. MORGAN.
229 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

will carry articles and that a given class of matter (newspapers, etc.) shall not be carried at the second class rate
unless such matter conforms to every requirement Congress may prescribe. Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727; In re
Rapier, 143 U. S. 110, 133; Public Clearing House v. Coyne,
194 U. S. 497.
The present statute is a mere exercise of the right to
determine what shall be admitted to the mails.
Appellants' argument that Congress had no power to
enact the statute in question is based on an assumed
erroneous construction of the act.
In the exercise of an admitted power Congress may indirectly accomplish results which it would have no power
to accomplish directly. Employers' Liability Cases, 207
U. S. 463, 502; McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27.
The statute is not a law "abridging the freedom of the
press." Francisv. United States, 188 U. S. 375; Francev.
United States, 164 U. S. 676; In re Rapier, 143 U. S. 110.
The freedom of the press only imports the right to print
and circulate, but does not give any vested right to use
any particular postal rate.
The statute does not deprive appellants of either liberty
or property without due process of law, nor does it take
private property for public use without just compensation.
A court of equity will not, by injunction, restrain the
prosecution of criminal proceedings. In re Sawyer, 124
U. S. 200, 210-211; Harkraderv. Wadley, 172 U. S. 148,
170; Fitts v. McGhee, 172 '. S. 516, 531-533; Hemsley v.
Myers, 45 Fed. Rep. 283; W1agner v. Drake, 31 Fed. Rep.
849; Logan v. Postal Telegraph Co., 157 Fed. Rep. 570;
2 Story Eq. Jur., § 893; High on Injunctions, 4th ed.,
§ 68; Joyce on Injunctions, §§ 58-60a.
If the "advertisement" paragraph should be held void,
it is separable and should not affect the validity of the
balance of the statute. Bank of Hamilton v. Dudley, 2
Pet. 492, 526; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 695; Income

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Tax Cases, 158 U. S. 601, 635; Trade-Mark Cases, 100
U. S. 82, 98; Baldwin v. Franks, 120 U. S. 678, 687;
Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 T. S. 270, 304; Employers'
Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 501; Packet Co. v. Keokuk,
95 U. S. 80, 89; Presser v. Illinois, 116 U. S. 252.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.

The Post Office Appropriation Act of August 24, 1912,
37 Stat. 539, 553, 554, c. 389, in § 2, contains the following:
That it shall be the duty of the
"SEc. 2 .
editor, publisher, business manager, or owner of every
newspaper, magazine, periodical, or other publication to
file with the Postmaster General and the postmaster at
the office at which said publication is entered, not later
than the first day of April and the first day of October of
each year, on blanks furnished by the Post Office Department, a sworn statement setting forth the namnes and postoffice addresses of the editor and managing editor, publisher, business managers, and owners, and, in addition,
the stockholders, if the publication be owned by a corporation; and also the names of known bondholders, mortgagees, or other security holders; and also, in the case of
daily newspapers, there shall be included in such statement the average of the number of copies of each issue
of such publication sold or distributed to paid subscribers
during the preceding six months: Provided, That the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to religious,
fraternal, temperance, and scientific, or other similar publications: Provided further, That it shall not be necessary
to include in such statement the names of persons owning
less than one per centum of the total amount of stock,
bonds, mortgages, or other securities. A copy of such
sworn statement shall be published in the second issue of
such newspaper, magazine, or other publication printed

LEWIS PUBLISHING CO. v. MORGAN.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

next after the filing of such statement. Any such publication shall be denied the privileges of the mail if it shall fail
to comply with the provisions of this paragraph within
ten days after notice by registered letter of such failure.
"That all editorial or other reading matter publishod in
any such newspaper, magazine, or periodical for the
publication of which money or other valuable consideration is paid, accepted, or promised shall be plainly marked
'advertisement.' Any editor or publisher printing editorial or other reading matter for which compensation is
paid, accepted or promised without so marking the same,
shall upon conviction in any court having jurisdiction, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500)."
The two appellants, publishers of newspapers in the
City of New York, complaining that th*s legislation
abridged the freedom of the press protected by the kirst,
and constituted a denial df the due process of law guaranteed by the Fifth, Amendment to the Constitution, filed
their bills against designated officials of the United States
to prevent the enforcement of the ,provision in question.
The bills were dismissed for want of equity and this appeal
was taken directly to this court, because of the rights asserted under the Constitution. Coming to define the controversy in order to appreciate and restrict the issues to
the end that we may pass on none but the questions which
are necessary to be decided, it is to be observed that there
are some differences in the mode in which the cases are
stated in the pleadings and in the argument. But after
all, these divergencies give rise to no real distinction between the two cases and we hence treat them as one. At
the outset, in order to state in the most direct way the
grievances which the publishers deem they have suffered,
we reproduce, retaining the italics, the statement made
on that subject in the opening passages of the argument
of the counsel for the Lewis Publishing Company:

OC TOIBER TERM,

19[2.

Opinion of the Court.

229 U).S.

"The newspaper law, whose constitutionality is in this
suit called into question, is neither in form nor substance
a law to regulate the carriage of the mails but to regulate
journalism.
"In this respect it has the merit of sincerity. It does not
pretend to be in aid of the Post Office Department. That
Department did not seek its enactment but protested
against it.
"The law in question makes no reference to the mails
except that it uses exclusion therefrom as a means of eforcing this censorship of the press.
"Even this remote connection is wanting in the latter
section of the law, which requires paid reading mat ter
to be formally branded as an advertisement. Its enforcement is left to a criminal action for a penalty.
"The law has two plainly avowed objects.
"The first is to compel a disclosure to the Government,
under oath, of the names and addresses of Ihe edit ors,
publishers, business managers and owners, stoekholdeis,
security creditors and the daily circulation of such newspapers for the preceding six months.
" This will be hereafter referred to as the inquisitorialprovision.
"The second object is to compel a disclosure to the publie through newspaper publication of these facts and also
whether any editorial or reading matter in such publiention has been inserted for a valuable consideration.
"This will be hereafterreferred to as the publicity provisio.
"The publicity provision cannot be referred to any
proper function of the Post Office Department. Its function is to carry the mails and in such carriage it cannot
matter whether the public are advised as to the ownership,
editorial direction and circulation of a newspaper or not, or
whether the matter which it publishes is published for a
consideration."
And thus interpreting the assailed provision not as a

IEWIS PUBIASHING CO. i. MORGAN.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mere exertion of legislative power to additionally prescribe
the conditions by which publishers might continue to enjoy the right to participate in the large pecuniary advantages and other privileges created in their favor through
the classification of mail matter, but on the contrary
treating the provision as a substantive exercise of a legislative authority not possessed and which unduily restricted
the freedom of the press, thinly disguised as a regulation
of the mails and enforcible by an absolute exclusion from
the right to all mail service-the legal propositions adv:iC(ed are as follows:
"1. The Constitulion has not either under the Post

Roads clause or elsewhere delegated to the Federal Government the power (1) to conipel these disclosures and
(2) to direet their publication or (3) to compel paid reading
matter to be marked as an advertisement.
1'2. The Constitution not only failed to give such power
but it expressly forbade, it, by the First, Amendment, prohibiting any law 'abridging the freedom of the press.'
"3. The requirement that a certain class of newspapers
shall disclose to the public by publication the most intimate details of their business, anrd use their own capital,
labor facilities and valuable space for such disclosure, is
a taking of 'liberty' and 'propert y' wit bout due proc5ess of
law and a like taking of valuable property rights for an
assuned public use without just compensation.'"
On the other hand, putting aside wiat, we deem to 1)e
minior subdivisions, broadly st'ated, all the contentions of
the Government are reducible to the following: (a) That
the assailed provision in no sense can be considered as an
attempted exertion of power to regulate the freedom of
the press or even as the exercise of the legislative authority to regulate the mails in the larger or general sense of
that term since, when rightly construed, the nrovision
only deals with what is"
known as second class mail matter,
and imposes conditions necessary to be complied with to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

enable' publishers to participate in the great and exclusive
privileges and advantages which arise from the right to
use the second class mail. (b). That the precedent conditions thus imposed are relevant to the purpose which was
intended to be accomplished by Congress in creating the
second class mail privilege and are either directly or incidently embraced in the power to regulate the mails and
in doing so to confer the second class privilege. (c) That
even if these propositions be not well founded and the
provision be given the significance attributed to it by the
publishers, nevertheless it is valid as an exertion by Congress of its power to establish post offices and post roads, a
power which conveys an absolute right of legislative selection as to what shall be carried in the mails and which
therefore is not in any wise subject to judicial control
even although in a given case it may be manifest that a
particular exclusion is but arbitrary because resting on
no discernible distinction nor coming within any discoverable principle of justice or public policy.
From this statement of the opposing contentions it is
apparent that the first and fundamental cause of difference
arises from the widely conflicting views entertained, concerning the meaning of the assailed provision, and that
hence it becomes primarily necessary to settle such differences, that is, to determine the true meaning of the
provision. Moreover, as the controversy concerning the
meaning of the provision involves its relation to the law
concerning the carriage of newspapers in the mails in
force at the time of the. passage of the-provision and an
appreciation of its letter and spirit, it also becomes necessary to consider that law, its origii and development.
An abstract of the laws relating td the postal service from
early Colonial times (1639), and under the Constitution
down to, and including the year 1888, will be found in
the report of the Postmaster General for the year 1888.
A condensed yet comprehensive statement of the general

LEWIS PUBLISHING CO. v. MORGAN.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

results of the legislation from the first statute on the
subject, February 20, 1792, 1 Stat. 232, c. 7, to the act of
May 12, 1910, 36 Stat. 366, c. 230, is contained in the
report of the Commission on Second-class Mail Matter,
communicated by the President to Congress on Febmary 22, 1912, pp. 13-18.
A consideration of the abstract made by the Postmaster
General above referred to and of the synopsis contained in
the report of the Commission, leaves no doubt that from
the beginning Congress, in exerting the power to establish
post-offices arid post-roads, has acted upon the assumption
that it was not bound by any hard and fast rule of uniformity, that is to say, that in exerting its power on the
Bmbject of the mails it has always considered that the right
to classify in the broadest sense was enjoyed, and, consequently, depending upon conceptions of public good to
be accomplished irrespective of the mere cost of carriage,
the rates of mail have varied and the privileges accorded
have changed from time to time. All the power which has
been exerted is derived from the grant to Congress, in
Art. I, § 8 of the Constitution to establish post-offices and
post-roads. And the wise combination of linitation with
flexible and fecund adaptibility of the simple yet comprehensive provisions of the Constitution are so aptly illustrated by a statement in the argument of the Government
as to the development of the postal system; that we insert
it as follows:
'Under that six-word grant of power the great postal
system of this country has been built up, involving an annual revenue and expenditure of over five hundred millions of dollars, the maintenance of 60,000 post offices,
with hundreds of thousands of employ6s, the carriage of
more than fifteen billions of pieces of mail matter per year,
weighing over two billion of pounds, the incorporation of
railroads, the establishment of the rural free delivery system, the money-order system, by which more .than a half

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

a billion of dollars a year is transmitted from person to
person, the postal savings bank, the parcels post, an
aeroplane mail service, the suppression of lotteries, and
a most efficient suppression of fraudulent and criminal
schemes impossible to be reached in any other way."
Only particularly concerned as we are with the legislation relating to the carriage of newspapers in the mails
we need not stop to generally demonstrate the accuracy
of the statements we have made. An abstract from and
reference to the statutes chronologically arranged, relating
particularly to discriminations in favor of the carriage of
newspapers in the mail, will be found in a statement. made
by W. A. Glasgow, Jr., Esq., before the Postal Commission
of 1906-7, forming part of House Document, vol. 98, beginning at p. 541. And a consideration of the statutes
referred to in this abstract will demonstrate the legislative
inauguration of and persistent adhesion to what is aptly
described in the report of the Commission on Second-class
Mail Matter as "the historic policy of encouraging by low
postal rates the dissemination of current intelligence."
Indeed, we think also that it is not open to controversy that
a review of these statutes will demonstrate that it was
always conceived not only that Congress might so exert
its power as to favor the circulation of newspapers, by
giving special mail advantages, but that it also possessed
Ihe authority to fix a general standard to which publishers
seeking to obtain the proffered privileges must conform in
order to obtain them. Nothing affords a more apt il.ustration of the assumed existence of the power in Congress
to discriminate on the subject than was shown as early as
1845 by the act of March 3 of that year, 5 Stat. 736, c. 43,
§ 9, by which, although there was secured to the Government a virtual monopoly in the transportation "of any
letters, packets, or packages of letters," by forbidding the
establishment of "any private express or expresses" for
their conveyance on mail routes, it was declared that the

LEWIS P.UBL1SHING CO. v. MORGAN.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

restrictions should not applyto the transportation of newspapers, pamphlets, magazines and periodicals.
But it is useless to pursue the subject in detail, since as
the result of legislation, beginning with the act of March 3,
1863, c. 71, 12 Stat., pp. 701, 704 et seq., and embracing
statutes which are noted in the margin,1 it had come to
pass on August 24, 1912, when the provision here assailed
was enacted, that mail matter, disregarding mere subordinate subdivisions, was divided into four general
classes, the first class embracing letters and printed
matter, the second class covering newspapers and periodicals, the third, books and pamphlets and the fourth
merchandise. And it is obvious and is not disputed, that
the classification thus adopted was based, not upon merely
inherent distinctions or differences in the nature and
character of the articles as mailable matter and the cost
of their carriage, but, rested upon broad principles of
public policy; in other words, upon the conceptions of
Congress as to how far it was wise for the general welfare
to give advantages to one class not enjoyed by another.
It is not necessary to stop to enumerate the exceptional
privileges, and great advantages which were offered to publishers of newspapers by the classification thus adopted,
since it is not questioned that as a result of giving them
the benefits of the second class rates, pecuniary advantages of great consequence to them resulted which when
conjoined with the exceptional administrative and other
privileges, which were accorded under that elassification utdoubtedly operated a very great discrimination in
Act or June 8, 1872, c. 335, §§ 99 el ,cq., 17 SI- t,. 283,296; J c 2,'
1874, c. 456, §§ 5 ct ,scq., 18 Stat. 232; July 12, 1876, c. 179, § .15, 19
Stat. 78, 82; March 3, 1879, c. 180, § 7 et seq., 20 Stat. 355, 358; June 9,
1884, c. 73, 23 Stat. 40; March 3, 1885, c. 342, 23 Stat. 385, 387; July 16,
1894, c. 137, 28 Stat. 105; June 6, 1900, c. 801, 31 Stat. 660; May 12,
1910, c. 2:30, 36 Stat. 366. See, also, act of August 24, 1912, 389, 37
Stat., p. 551.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

their favor. It was obviously this result of the legislation which caused the Postmaster General at page 6 of his
report to Congress, for the year 1907, to say that "by
acts of Congress passed in 1874, 1879, 1885 and 1894, a
privileged class has been created." And without going
into detail or intending by citing them, to treat the figures
as being other than illustrative, the subject is illumined
by a statement made in the brief for the Government,
that the rate for first class or letter mail is of such' a
character as to produce a profit of seventy millions a year
to the Government, while for the second or newspaper class
the rates are such as to :entail upon the Government a loss
'of seventy millions of dollars each year, a result which it
is moreover stated is brought about by the fact that letter
mail under the classification is subjected to a rate eighty
times higher than that given newspapers under the second
class and that while not so large, a very great discrimination also exists against the other classes and in favor-of
the second class.
But the mere distinction between the classes is not the
only measure of the exceptional privileges accorded to
publishers, for Within the second class under which they
are placed, advantages are given them not possessed by
others in that class. For instance, the postage on a newspaper coming under the second class rate when mailed by
an individual is higher than is the rate of postage exacted
for the mailing of the same newspaper by publishers or
news agents. While it cannot be questioned that the
conferring of the special privileges above stated, were at
least in form a discrimination against the public generally,
beyond doubt, however, in the legislative mind they were
deemed not to be of that character because the purpose
of their bestowal was to secure to the public the benefits
to result from "the wide disseminatibn of intelligence as
to current events." Certain, however, as is this view, it
is equally also certain that for the purpose of securing the

LEWIS PUBLISI.N(G (10.
229 U. S.

v. MORGAN.

Opinion of the Court.

public benefits which it was conceived
would result from
that the power
deemed
the giving of the privilege, it was
and duty existed to fix a standard which should be complied with by those who wished to enjoy the privilege,-a
result manifested by the following provisions of § 14 of
the act of March 3, 1879, c. 180, 20 Stat. 355, 359:
"SEC. 14. That the conditions upon which a publication

shall be admitted to' the second class are as follows:
"First. It must regularly be issued at stated intervals,
as frequently as four times a year, and bear a date of
issue, and be numbered consecutively.
"Second. It must be issued from a known office of publication.
"Third. It must be formed of printed paper sheets,
without board, cloth, leather, or other substantial binding,
such as distinguished printed books for preservation from
periodical publications.
"Fourth. It must be originated and published for the
dissemination of information of a public character, or devoted to literature, the sciences, arts, or some special
industry,. and having a legitimate list of subscribers;
Provided, however, That nothing herein contained shall be
so construed as to admit to the second class rate regular
publications designed primarily for advertising purposes,
or for free circulation, or for circulation at nominal rates."
And the long settled administrative practice in enforcing these conditions serves to show what was. deemed to be
their importance and the necessity f'r applying them to
the end that the results intended to be. accomplished by
Congress might be realized. Prior to 1887 the enforcement of the conditions exacted as a prerequisite to the
enjoyment of second class mail privileges depended upon
the action of postmasters throughout the United States
and although in the discharge of their duty they were
governed by regulations and instructions promulgated by
the Post Office Department, there was certainly laxity
vOL.

ccxxix-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

and possible confusion.

229 U. S.

In 1887, to remedy this condition

under the authority conferred upon him by Rev. Stat.,
§ 396, the Postmaster General promulgated new rules and
regulations. It suffices briefly to point out the means by
which uniformity in administration was secured. Those
desiring to obtain the second class privileges were compelled to make written applicat ion-for entry of their publications at the local post office, to file copies of the publications, to make affidavit to the essential facts and to
make written answers to questions prolpounded which
were deemed to be essential to show the existence of the
conditions precedent imposed by the statute. A copy of
the questions required to be answered are in the margin.'
1 From
V.

Postal Laws and Regulations-ed. 1902, p. 198.

APPLICATIONS FOR ENTRY OF PUBLICATIONS AS SECOND CLASS
MATTER.

SEC. 43S. When a publication, not inelu6ded in sections 429 and 4,30
(see sees. 427 and 428), is offered for mailing for the first t ioc at lhe
second-class rates of postage the postmaster shall require the propriet or
or his duly authorized representative to make and present to him, with
two copies of the publication, sworn answers in writing (on Form 3501)
to the following interrogatories:
(1) How often is the publication issued?
(2) Where is the "known office of publication" ? (If in a city give
street and number.)
(3) Where is it lrinted?
(4) Who are the proprietors?
(5) Are they in any way interested pecuniarily in any business or
t.rade represented by the publication, either in the reading matter or in
the advertisements? If so, what is the interest?
P(6) Who are the editors of the publication, and how
is their coinpensation determined?
(7) Have the editors any pecuniary interest in any business or t rade
represented by the publication, either in the reading matter or in the
advertisements? If so, what is the interest?
(8) Can any house in good standing advertise in your publication at
the regular published rates?
(9) Are advertisements of competitors accepted at the usual rates?
(10) Have any of the business houses which advertise in your pub-

LEWt;S PUBLISHING CO. v. MORGAN.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

One controlling authority for passing upon all applications for entry was provided by vesting the Third As-

sistant Postnaster General with power to that end, that
officer being authorized in case of approval of the application to empower the postmaster at the proper bffice to,
issue a certificate of entry. Upon the. issue of the certificate it was made the duty of the publisher to print upon
each copy of the publication, so entered, the following:
lication any interest (either by past connection or special contract)
therein respecting advertisements or subscriptions? If so, what is the
interest?
(11) What is the greatest number of copies furnished to any person
or firm advertising in your publication?
(12) On what terms are these papers furnished?
(13) What number of copies do you print of each issue?
(14) What number of bona fide subscribers have you. for the next
issue of your paper, made up as follows:
a. Direct individual subscriptions to publisher without premium?
b. Direct individual subscriptions to publisher with premium?
c. Direct individual subscriptions, in clubs or through clubbing
arrangements?
d. Copies regularly sold over publishers' counter to purchasers of
individual copies?
e. Copies regularly sold by newsboys?
f. Regular sales of consecutive issues by news agencies?
g. Bulk purchases of consecutive issues by news agencies for sale
without the return privilege?
h. Copies, to advertisers, one to each to prove advertisement?
2.. Bona fide exchanges, one copy for another, with existing secondclass publications?
(15) What is the subscription price of your publication per annum?
(16) How many pounds weight will cover the papers furnished to
regular subscribers?
(17) What average number of specimen copies with each issue do
you desire to send through the mails at the pound rate?
(18) How are the names of the persons- to whom sample copies are
to be sent obtained?

(19) What disposition is made of the excess, if any, of copies printed
over those furnished to subscribers, news agents, including newsboys,
and as sample copies.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

"Entered-at the post office at-as second class matter
under the act of--."
It is true to say that these regulations promulgated in
1887, modified in some respects not material here to be
considered, were continuously in force from their adoption
up to the tine the statutory provision here in question
was enacted, and had therefore been in operation for about
twenty-five years.
In the light of this statement concerning the evolution
of the law, as to mail-matter and its classification, as it existed at the time the provision here involved was enacted,
we come- to dispose of the controversy as to the meaning
of that provision, the question which we are called upon
to solve being this:
Was tle provision intended simply to supplement the
existing legislation relative to second class mail matter or
was it enacted as an exertion of legislative power to
regulate the press, to curtail its freedom, and under the
assumption that there was a right to compel obedience to
the command of legislation having that object in view, to
deprive one who refused to obey of all right to use the mail
service? When the question is thus defined its solution is
.free from difficulty, since by its terms the provision only
regulates second class mail, and the exclusion from the
mails for which it provides is not an exclusion from the
mails generally, but only from the right to participate in
and enjoy the privileges accorded by the second class
classification.
The reasons which cause us to think this to
be the case
are these: (a) Because the provision is part of a postoffice appropriation act and naturally therefore, gives rise
to the inference that it concerns the general subject of the
mails, there being an entire absence of anything justifying
even a surmise, if such a point of view could be indulged
in under any circumstances, that Congress was intentionally exerting power not delegated to it and consciously

LEWIS PBLISHIN(- ('0. v. 'MORGAN.
229 U. S"

Opinion of the Court.

violating an express prohibition of the Constitution and
for that reason clothed its exertion of power in the disguise of postal legislation; (b) because the text makes
clear the fact that the legislation was exclusively addressed
to the regulation of second class mail and was shaped in
contemplation of the long established law and regulations
governing that class. This result becomes apparent when
it is observed that the provision makes it the duty of the
publisher to "enter" his publication, since by practice and
regulation prevailing during a long period of time, it had
come to pass that the word "enter" had exclusive relation
to a duty to be performed in order to obtain the benefits of
the second classclassification. In the absence, therefore,
of some express indication to the contrary, no other conclusion is possible, than that the word was used with
reference to its received official and administrative significance. In fact, in icw of the history which we have given
of the development of the second class classification, and
the reasons which led to the system of entry,, unless the
settled significance of the word be given to it, it would have
no meaning whatever.
Further, we think that because as finally enacted the
provision which was in one paragraph as it passed the
House of Representatives, in the Senate was divided into
two paragraphs; affords no ground for contending that the
requirement as to advertisements contained in the second
printed paragraph is not embraced within and controlled
by the conclusion we have stated. We say this because
the second printed paragraph by reference clearly manifests that its provision applied to "such" newspapers,
periodicals, etc., that is, the newspapers or periodicals
covered by the first paragraph and which by its terms are
submitted to the duty of entry in order to enjoy the privileges conferred. Nor do we think there is in reason ground
to support the proposition that because the provision
sanctioned the duty to make entry by an exclusion from

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

the mails it hence is a general regulation and not simply one
conferring the right of availing of the second class privileges. The proposition assumes that the command is that
for failure to comply with the conditions imposed there
sihall be a denial of the use of the mails, while in fact the
provision is, there shall be a denial of the "privileges" of
the mail, a qualification which in view of the great advantages given by the second class mail classification and
of the fact that in'
the reports made to Congress concerning that classification, attention was directed to the circumstance that a privileged class was thereby created,
goes to show the conscious pu,;-)ok
e to provide only for
the exceptional privileges with which the provision was
dealing.
Equally wanting in force is the further contention that
because the regulation in the second paragraph to the
effect that paid matter shall be marked as advertisement
is sanctioned by a penalty, therefore, at least as to such
provision, an independent regulation of the press was intended, divorced from the requirements as to entry conrained in the first paragraph. We reach this conclusion
because when the paragraph referredto is accurately considered it makes more cogent the view we have taken and
additionally demonstrates that the legislative mind in enacting. it, was sensitively alive to the fact that the provision alone concerned the privileges of second class mail,
and the administrative rule which for so many years prevailed on the subject. In other words, that as, under
existing administrative regulations, the exactions as to
entry contemplated conditions existing at the time of the
'application for entry, and the condition as to advertisements concerned conduct of a publisher after entry,
which could not therefore be a condition precedent to
entry, a penalty for the latter was devised in order to
harmonize with the requirements as to admission to the
second class mail.

LEWIS PUBLJSIIING CO. v. MORIAN.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But even if we were to omit the word privilege which
qualifies the exclusion from the mails as provided in the
first paragraph so as to cause the provision to read "shall
be denied the (privileges of the) mails," there would be
nevertheless no room for doubt. As we have seen, coeval
with the establishment of the system of entry, as the
means of securing the privileges of the second class mail
and presumably because of the overshadowing advantaiges
and benefits which were conferred by that system upon
those entitled to participate in them, the right to such
admission came to be indifferently described as "the
entry to the mails of newspapers," etc., the "publications
admitted to the mails," etc., and the duty which was cast
upon the Third Assistant Postmaster General, in passing
up9n such subjects as "The responsibility of finally admitting such matters to the nail," etc. See the report of
the Third Assistant Postmaster General contained in the
report of the Department for the year 1887, at page 699,
where, after referring to the regllationis concerning entry,
the quoted expressions are employed. Moreover, when
it is considered that the provision was dealing only with
the second class privilege, it cannot in reason be assumed
that conditions were imposed dealing with a subject with
which the statute was not concerned, in order thereby to
afford ground for asserting it to be unconsti.tutional, when
the elementary rule is that every reasonable -intendment
to avoid such a result must be inlulged in. United States
v. Delaware and Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 407. Without
stopping however to review the subjects in detail we content ourselves with saying that we think neither the
reference to expressions in debate, upon the concession
for the sake of argument that they are competent to be
looked at, nor an opinion of the Attorney. General upon
which reliance is.placed, are adequate to control or modify
the conclusion we have-reached as to the meaning of the
provision.

OCTOBE1R TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

But granting that room for doubt remains after the
analysis of the text, which has preceded, we are of opinion
that the legislative history of. the adoption of the provision makes that conclusion indisputable for the following
reasons: 1. Since the bill as introduced in the House of
Representatives, contained but one paragraph and obviously related to the privileges of the second class mail
alone; 2d, because although the bill as reported to the
Senate by the committee to which it was there referred,
was somewhat modified as to the conditions exacted, and
was divided into two paragraphs, the report of the committee leaves no doubt that there was no purpose to disintegrate -the provision as it passed the House of Representatives, by making two enactments or to do anything
more than to exact additional conditions for the right to
enjoy the second class mail privileges, the latter result
being clearly shown by the following excerpt from the
report of the committee. (Report No. 955, p. 24.)
"The extremely low postage rate accorded to secondrtlass matter gives these publications a circulation and a
corresponding influence unequaled in history. It is a
common belief that many periodicals are secretly owned
or controlled, and that in reading'such papers the public
is deceived through ignorance of the interests the publication represents. We believe that, since the general public
bears a large portion of the expense of distribution of
second-class matter, and since these publications wield a
large influence because of their special concessions in the
mails, it is not only equitable but highly desirable that the
public should know the individuals who own or control
them."
As therefore the assailed provision when rightly construed only affixes additional conditions for admission to
a privileged class, of mail, and it was merely designed to
provide for the continua4ice on compliance with designated
conditions of a-system-under which vast sums of public

LEWIS PUBLISItLNG CO. v. MORGAN.
229 U. S.

Opiuion of the Court.

money were expended, to the end that the power and
influence of the press might be expanded, it results that
there was no foundation for the meaning attributed to the
provision in question by the complainants and on which
the grievances upon which they relied rested.
We come then to determine Whether the provision as
thus construed is valid. That Congress in exerting its
power concerning the mails has the comprehensive right
to classify which it has exerted from the beginning and
therefore may exercise its discretion for the purpose of
furthering the public welfare as it understands it, we
think it too clear for anything but statement; the exertion
of the power of course, at all times and under all conditions
being subject to the express or necessarily implied limitations of the Constitution. From this it results that. it was
and is in the power of Congress in "the interest of the
dissemination of current intelligence" to so legislate as to
the mails, by classification or otherwise, as to favor the
widespread circulation of newspapers, periodicals, etc.,
even although the legislation on that subject, when considered intrinsically,' apparently seriously discriminates
against the public and in favor of newspapers, periodicals,
etc., and their publishers. Although in the form in which
the contentions here made by the publishers which we
have at the outset reproduced, as literally stated, seem to
challenge this proposition by suggesting that the power of
Congress to classify is controlled and limited by conditions
intrnsically inhering in the carriage of the mails, we assume that such apparent contention was merely the result
of an unguarded form of statement, since we cannot
bring our minds to the conclusion that it was intended on
behalf of the publishers to genefally assail as an infringement of the constitutional prohibition against the invasion
of the fredom of the press the legislation which for a long
series of years has favored the press by discriminating so
as to secure to it great pecuniary and other concessions

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

and a wider circulation and consequently a greater sphere
of influence. If, however, we are mistaken in this view,
then, we think, it suffices to say that the contention is
obviously without merit. This being true the attack on
the provision in question as a violation of the Constitution
because infringing the freedom of the press, and depriving
of property without due process of law, rests only upon the
illegality of the conditions which the provision exacts in
return for the right to enjoy the privileges and advantages
of the second class mail classification. The question therefore is only this, Are the conditions which were exacted
incidental to the power exerted of conferring on the publishers of newspapers, periodicals, etc., the privileges of
the second class classification or are they so beyond the
scope of the exercise of that power as to cause the conditions to be repugnant t6 the Constitution? We say this
is the question since necessarily if the power exists to
legislate by discriminating in favor of publishers, the,right
t6 exercise- that power, carries with it the authority to do
those things which are incidental to the power itself or
which are plainly necessary to make effective the principal
authority when exerted. In other words, from this point
of view, the illuminating rule announced in McCulloch
v. Maryland and Gibbons v. Ogden, governs hete as it does
in every other case where an exertion of power under the
Constitution comes under consideration. The ultimate
and narrow -question therefore is, Are the requirements
of the provision in question incidental to the purpose
intended to be secured by the'second class classification?
Let us consider the matter from the historical and from
the inherent standpoint. Under the statute, as we have
seen, for a long series of years a publication primarily devoted to advertisements was not entitled! to the benefit of
the second class classification, and by a long administrative construction, embodied in the regulations, the disclosure of the names of the proprietors as well as of 'the

LEWIS PUBLISHING CO. v. MORGAN.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

editors of a publication which has sought to be entered as
second class matter was required. The new conditions
imposed are first, that where there is matter the publication of which is paid for, the fact of such payment shall be
disclosed by marking the matter as an advertisement,
and second, the disclosure as to ownership, etc., previously
exacted is enlarged by making it necessary in the case of a
corporation to furnish the names of the stockholders and
also requiring that the names of the principal creditors,
etc., be given. As the right to consider the character of
the publication as an advertising medium was previously
deemed to be incidental to the exercise of the power to
classify for the purpose of the second class mail, it is inpossible in reason to perceive why the new condition as
to marking matter which is paid for as an advertisement
is not equally incidental to the right to classify. And
the additional exactions as to disclosure of stockholders,
principal creditors, etc., also are as clearly incidental to
the power to classify as are the requirements as to disclosure of ownership, editors, etc., which for so many
years formed the basis of the right of admission to the
classification. We say this because of the intimate relation which exists between ownership and debt, since
debt in its ultimate conception is a dismemberment of
ownership and the power which it confers over an owner
is by the, common knowledge of mankind, often the
equivalent of the control which would result from ownership itself. Considered intrinsically, no completer statement of the relation which the newly exacted conditions
bear to the great public purpose which induced Congress
to continue in favor of the publishers of newspapers At
vast public expense the low postal rate as well as other
privileges accorded by the second class mail classification
can be made than was expressed in the report of the Senate
committee, stating the intent of the legislation which we
have already excerpted, that is, to secure to the public in

OCTOIBIE'

TERM, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

"the dissemination of knowledge of current events," by
means of newspapers, the names not only of the apparent,
but of what might prove to be the real and substantial
owners of the publicatiols, and to enable the public to
know whether matter which was published was what it
purported to be or'was in substance a paid advertisement.
We repeat that in considering this subject we are concerned
not with any general regulation of what should be published in newspapers, not with any condition excluding
from the right to resort to the mails, but we are concerned
solely and exclusively with the right on behalf of the
publishers to continue to enjoy great privileges and advantages at the public expense, a right given to them
by Congress upon condition of compliance with regulations deemed by that body incidental and necessary to
the complete fruition of the public policy lying at the
foundation of the privileges accorded.
It may be deemed from what we have said in considering the asserted re,-ugnancy of the conditions imposed by
the provision under examination that we have assumed
that if the attack made upon such conditions was well
founded and they therefore would disappear, nevertheless
the right to continue to enjoy the second class mail
privileges would remain, but we have not considered that
subject and intimate no opinion upon it.
Finally, because there has developed no necessity of
passing on the question, we do not wish even by the remotest implication to be regarded as assenting' to the
broad contentions concerning the existence of arbitrary
power through the classification of the mails, or by way
of condition embodied in the proposition of the Government which we have previously stated.
Decrees affirmed.

