OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

intended by the shippers to be exported to foreign countries, and there was no interruption of their transportation to their destination except what was necessary for
transshipment at New Orleans.
Decree affirmed.

WHEELER v. CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 473.

Argued January 7, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.

The fact that the plaintiff in a taxpayer's suit against a municipality
was solicited to bring the suit and was indemnified against liability
for costs and fees is not enough in itself in the absence of any illegal
purpose to make the case collusive so as to deprive the court of
jurisdiction. Cashman v. Amador Canal Co., 118 U. S. 58, distinguished.
The motives of litigants in seeking Federal jurisdiction are immaterial.
Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 401.
A plaintiff is not to be charged with bad faith in bringing an action
simply because after it was commenced the same issue was raised
and decided adversely in an action between other parties.

Tm case is here on a question of jurisdiction.
The appellants filed a bill in equity in the Circuit Court
for the Eighth Circuit, District of Colorado, against the
City and County of Denver and the other appellees, who
constitute the Public Utilities Commission, to restrain
them from paying out any moneys authorized by the
provisions of an amendment to the charter of the city, and
likewise to restrain them and each of them from issuing
or attempting to issue $8,000,000 of bonds authorized at
an election directed by the amendment to the charter of

WHEELER v. DENVER.
229 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the city. The bill also prayed an accounting of money
already expended by reason of their supposed election
and authority as members of the Public Utilities Commission and that they be required to reimburse the city therefor, that ยง 264A of the charter be declared unconstitutional
and void, and all further action thereunder be forever restrained and enjoined, and all acts heretofore done and
steps taken thereunder be declared wholly illegal, improper
and without authority of law.
The bill alleges the requisite citizenship of, the parties
and the jurisdictional amount. It further alleges the
following:
"Appellants Wheeler and Lusk were respectively owners
of real estate in the City and County of Denver of the
assessed valuation of $35,000 and $42,000 respectively.
For the year preceding the filing of the suit the assessed
valuation of all property within the City and County was
$135,467,050. At a general city election held in May,
1910, it was claimed by the appellees that an amendment
to the charter of the city was adopted, which amendment
provided for the acquisition, by purchase or otherwise, by
the city, of a water works system, provided a Public
Utilities Commission to have charge and control of such
works, named the persons who were to constitute the Commission, their terms of office, salaries, and. duties, and
authorized them to issue bonds to the extent of $8,000,000
for the construction or purchase of such water works system and other duties."
The bill attacks the amendment on various grounds,
among which are-that it was not properly submitted to
the voters of the city; that the amendment was void because it submitted to the electors divers questions in one,
which, under the submission, could only be voted for as
a whole; that the amendment established the office of
Utilities Commission, and by the same act filled such
office, ahd that the amendment violated the state and

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

Federal Constitutions; that another suit was pending in
the Federal court in which the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit had sustained a temporary injunction theretofore granted by the Circuit Court for the
District of Colorado, and the court's order declared that
the amendment violated the contractual rights of the
Denver Union Water Company under a contract then
existing between that company and the city, and that
nevertheless the city was proceeding under the amendment, to spend the money of the tax-payers of the city.
Appellants filed the bill as tax-payers of the city in behalf
of themselves and all other tax-payers.
Appellees made a motion to dismiss the bill on the ground
that the court had no jurisdiction df the cause in that it
did not involve a dispute or controversy properly within
the jurisdiction of the court and that the parties had been
improperly and collusively made or joined for the purpose
of attempting to create a case cognizable under the laws
of the United States.
An affidavit of Edwin Van Cise, one of the Public
Utilities Commission, was submitted with the motion. It
averred that appellants (complainants in the bill) were
respectively residents of Montana and Nevada, that appellant Lusk was formerly a -resident of California and a
personal friend of Mr. F. G. Moffat, of the City of Denver,
a gentleman who was interested as a stockholder or bondholder, or both, or in some other capacity, in the Denver
Union Water Company, and that Wheeler is a client of
Edwin H. Park, solicitor for her and Lusk in this cause.
On the nineteenth or twentieth of June, 1911, Moffat, by
the authority or consent of the water company, sent Lusk
a telegram as follows:
"Would you be willing as a non-resident taxpayer to
bring suit in Federal Court to stop illegal expenditure of
public moneys by Utilities Commission if protected by
Water Company on expenses and all. liabilities? If so,

WHEELER v. DENVER.
229 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

wire me authority in your name to engage attorney and
bring suit."
Lusk replied as follows:
"Please engage necessary counsel and take proper steps
to protect against illegal expenditures by Utility Commission. Am owner of four lots corner Ninth and Sherman, and I object to the proposed expenditures."
It is averred on information and belief, that upon the
latter telegram Moffat, or some one acting for the water
company, retained Park in the name of Lusk, but really
for the water company, to prepare and file the bill in this
cause. It being found upon consultation, that the amount
in controversy with Lusk as sole complainant.was insufficient to give the court jurisdiction, it became necessary to
procure another non-resident owning property in the city.
Park was thereupon authorized to confer with his client
Wheeler, with a view to securing her cobperation, she to
be guaranteed against all expenses. Thereupon the following telegram was sent by Park to her:
"Will you permit use of your name in suit here to restrain misuse of taxes by City Officials? If so, wire me to
bring such suit. I advise the bringing of the suit and will
protectyou against expenses." To the telegram the reply
was sent, "Yes, use your judgment in the matter." The
next day after the receipt of this telegram Park wrote
Wheeler as follows:
"My dear Mrs. Wheeler: On yesterday I wired you for
permission to bring a suit in your name against some of the
city officials for misuse of taxes, and received your reply
authorizing me to go ahead. I b ought the suit and filed
it on yesterday. The suit is to restrain the Water Commissioners of Denver from further expendittures looking
toward the purchase of a water plant by the city of Denver. The city is already enjoined in another proceeding
in which the Water Company was a party. Since that
time the Water Commission has spent $31,000 to hold an

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

election, and about $25,000 for other purposes; and are
seeking to compel the city to pay out on warrants about
$20,000 more.
"The courts have already held that the amendment to
the charter establishing a Water Coi.0mission for the purpose of purchasing or building a water plant is unconstitutional and void, and it is our purpose to stop the spending
of any more of the people's money in that direction.
"I desire to bring suit in the Federal Court, and therefore had to get permission of a non-resident taxpayer to
bring suit, which accounts for my telegraphing you for
permission.
"You will not be charged with any expense or costs in
the matter, either for court costs or attorney's fees; and
I will see that you are absolutely protected in every way
from any liability whatever. Thanking you for your permission to bring the suit in your name, I remain."
The affidavit expressed the conclusion that the parties
to the bill were improperly and collusively joined for the
purpose of creating a cause cognizable in the United
States Circuit Court, in the interest and at the cost of the
Denver Union Water Company, neither of the parties
having knowledge of the joinder with the other, or of any
connection of the other with the cause, and having no
interest which was so imperiled as to cause them to proceed on their own motion and at their own expense.
The affidavits of Park and Moffat were filed in opposition to the motion to dismiss. Park's affidavit states the
following: He is solicitor for complainants (appellants
here). On June 11, 1911', the question of bringing a taxpayers, suit against the Public Utilities Commission was
brought to his attention by Mr. Gerald Hughes, and he was
asked if he would be willing to bring such suit for Lusk,
that Moffat had received a telegramfrom Lusk authorizing him (Moffat) to retain counsel for him for the purpose
of bringing suit in the Federal court.

WHEELER v. DENVER.
229 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Wheeler then owned property within the city and county
subject to taxation for the expenditures of the Commission. Park had been her legal adviser for some time, and
he suggested to Hughes the advisability of joining her in
the suit so that she might receive the same protection and
benefit as Lusk, provided she could be protected against
costs and counsel fees. Park believed it to be for her
interest to be so joined. He thereupon sent her the telegram and received the reply set out in the affidavit of Van
Cise, and brought the suit for her and Lusk and all other
tax-payers.
The affidavit set out the property owned by her and
Lusk and that she is neither a stockholder nor a bondholder nor otherwise financially interested in the water
company. It averred further as follows: It is not true that
the suit was brought at the solicitation or request of the
water company, but on the contrary, Park suggested the
joinder of Wheeler because in his opinion, as her attorney,
it was to her interest to be joined, provided she could be
protected against costs and attorney's fees; he so advised
her and she accepted his advice and authorized the suit.
It is not true that the suit is one brought solely in the interest or for the benefit of the water company, but it is
brought not only for the benefit of Wheeler and Lusk but
of all other property owners, including the water company, which is a large propertyzowner, its property being
assessed for taxation at about $2,500,000, being approximately 2% of the total assessed valuation of all property
within the city and county, and that, as Park was informed
and believed, the water company, by reason of its large
interest as a property owner and taxpayer, was willing to
protect Wheeler and Lusk against costs and attorney's
fees. Park denied the suits were collusive.
Moffat's affidavit is to the following effect: On June 19,
1911, he was treasurer of the water company. In May,
1911, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

in the case of the New York Trust Company v. The City
and County of Denver, had rendered an opinion that the
amendment to the charter of Denver was unconstitutional
and void. The water company was a party to that suit
and in a cross bill had alleged its property holdings in the
city and that it paid approximately one-fiftieth of all the
taxes assessed and collected in the city. Notwithstanding
the opinion and decision of the court, the Utilities Coinmission and its members openly and publicly declared
their purpose of ignoring the decision and continuing to
disburse the public funds of the city; announced their
intention of instituting other and independent litigation in
the state courts for the purpose of raising the identical
questions decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Many
taxpayers, citizens of Colorado and of other States, complained to the officers of the water company of such illegal
attempts and requested the officers of the company to take
some proper and legal steps to stop such unwarranted
action. These conditions were discussed between Moffat
and Gerald Hughes, counsel for the company, and it
being advisable that the litigation should remain in the
Federal courts, free from local prejudice or influence or
the attacks of local newspapers, Moffat suggested that
Lusk, who had been a resident of Denver and knew the
conditions surrounding the litigation, might have a suffiZient interest and be willing to institute such other suits
in the Federal court as might, be necessary and proper to
prevent further illegal expenditure of public funds affecting not only Lusk, but other taxpayers. Thereupon
Moffat, with the consent and advice of Hughes, sent the
telegrams set out in Van Cise's affidavit. Moffat, through
Hughes, employed Park to institute the suit. Moffat informed Park that the water company would protect him
in regard to expenses, but did not at that time inform
him of the exchange of telegrams with Lusk. The latter's
desire as a taxpayer to institute and maintain the suit is

WHEELER v. DENVER.
229 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

averred, and it is denied that he is a stockholder or' bondholder of the water company or that he has further or
other interest than that of a taxpayer. It is averred that
the water company is interested in the litigation, and
has a right not only to maintain its rights as a taxpayer, but, if it sees fit, to join in this suit as a nominal
party.
An affidavit of the members of the Commission was
filed in reply in which they aver that they have not, nor
has either of them, at any time declared the purpose as
charged against them in Moffat's affidavit, nor have they
done anything which might be construed as a violation
of the injunction of the Circuit Court. The cause referred to by Moffat, as they have been advised and believe, involves the same questions as the present con.troversy, and in the event that they shall be compelled
to answer they will so set up and aver. After the decision
of the Circuit Court of Appeals was announced, they
consulted with their counsel as to whether drawing warrants for their salaries and the expenses of the litigation
could be construed as a violation of the injunction of
the Circuit Court in any particular, and only issued warrants upon the assurance of counsel that they were not
prohibited from doing so. They also readily acquiesced
in the action of the Auditor and Treasurer of the city in
requesting an opinion of the City Attorney as to their
official status, after which they issued three certificates
with a view of testing their right and authority so to do
in the state courts, and in so doing were advised that
they were not in any mannelAransgressing the mandate
of the court. They aver their intention of bringing suits
in the discharge of their duties with a view of recovering
certain money believed to be due from certain collectors
of water rent and such kindred -matters as may arise from
time to time, but not for the purpose of raising any question already raised or,decided.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Mr. Edwin H. Park for appellants.
Mr. W. H. Bryant, with whom Mr. William P. Malburn
and Mr. Thos. R. Woodrow were on the brief, for appellees.
after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA,

The merits of the controversy are not involved. The
sole question is whether there was collusion to give the.
court jurisdiction of the cause, and, of course, the existence
of collusion implies the existence of fraud. Is fraud shown?
Between the parties there is the requisite diversity of
citizenship, requisite amount and the complainants (appellants here) had such relation to the matters charged
as to give them a standing to litigate their legality. They
were solicited to bring the suit, however, and they were
indemnified against liability for cost and counsel fees.
Was this enough to make their proceeding collusive? To
answer the question we must keep in mind the situation.
The Utilities Commission was alleged to be an unconstitutional body and its expenditures illegal. Indeed this
had been decided, but injury from its action still impen'ded
or was believed to impend. Litigation was threatened
or believed to be threatened in the state courts; in other
words, there was a purpose to change the forum of the
litigation and possibly its results. The belief may have
been unfounded; it cannot be said that it was not honestly
entertained. Against these circumstances what is opposed? It is said that the water company was the party
who desired the suit to be brought and that the suit was
brought for its benefit and at its instance and request,
and upon an express contract to pay the costs of litigation nd counsel fees which might be incurred. A great
deal of this is assumption, the water company admits

WHEELER v. DENVER.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

its interest, but the appellants also have' interest; but
mere unity of interest or difference in its degrees is not
enough, there must be an illegal purpose. If the interest
was real and the peril which threatened was real or thought
to be real, unity of interest or contribution of expenses
cannot be regarded as necessarily proof of collusion.
Chicago v. Mills, 204 U. S. 321. And the cases are numerous in which it has been decided that the motives of
litigants in seeking Federal jurisdiction are imnmaterial.
Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400, and cases cited.
Cashman v. Amador &c. Canal Co., 118 U. S. 58, is
relied on. The case is distinguishable from the case at
bar. Cashman was an alien and brought suit against
the Canal Company claiming that his land was' injured
by the debris thrown on it by the working of certain mines
by hydraulic process. The suit was instituted at the instance of the County of Sacramento, the County not
being able to bring suit in the Federal court. There was
a cause of action in Cashman; there was a disability on
the part of the county to sue in the Federal court in its
own name. So far there is resemblance to the case at
bar, but there are material differences between the agreement in that case and the agreement between the parties
in this. The County was to pay the expenses, engage
counsel and indemnify Cashman against all charges and
expenses, and he stipulated "not to compromise, disniiss,
or settle the said suit without the consent of the County
of Sacramento, and to allow said County and the attorneys aforesaid in its behalf to manage and conduct the
said suit to the same extent and in the same manner as if
such suit had been commenced by and was prosecuted
in the name of the said County of Sacramento." It is
manifest, as this court said, from the very beginning the
suit was in reality the suit of the County, with a party
plaintiff "collusively made" for the purpose of creating
a case cognizable "by the, Circuit Court of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S,

States." In other words, as was said, the "dispute and
controversy" which was "involved" was nominally between Cashman, an alien, and the defendants, citizens
of California, but was "really and substantially" between
One of the counties of,California and citizens of that State,
and thus not "properly within the jurisdiction" of the
Circuit Court.
The case at bar has no such features. It is not under
the control of the water company. It was brought by
appellants, they having a justiciable controversy, well or
ill-founded, and which it was desired to be determined
in a Federal court, they being non-residents of Colorado
and citizens of other States.
It is true by the decision of this court in The City and
County of Denver et al. v. The New York Trust Company
et-al., and Same v. The Denver Union Water Company et
al., ante, p. 123, the merits of the cbntroversy have been
decided against them, but they must be judged as of the
time their suit was begun, and, so judged, we think the
suit was not collusively, brought and should not have been
dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The decree dismissing
it is, therefore,
Reversed.
MR. JusTIcE DAY dissents.

