OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

LEWIS

229 U. S.

BLUE POINT OYSTER CULTIVATION
COMPANY v. BRIGGS.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.

No. 272.

Argued April 30, May 1, 1913.

Decided May 26, 1913.

The determination by the state court of the effect of grants of title
to the bed of navigable waters within the State must be followed
by this court.
The deepening, in the interest of navigation, of a channel across a
navigable bay, the bed of which is used for oyster cultivation under
grants from the State, is not a taking of the property of the lessee
of the oyster beds within the meaning of the Fifth Aiiiendmieit.
The public right of navigation is the dominant right in navigable
waters nd this includes the right to use the bed of the water for
every purpose which is an aid to navigation.
Whatever power the several States had before the Union was formed
over navigable waters within their respective jurisdictions has been
delegated to Congress, which now has all governmental power over
the subject, restricted only by th6 limitations in the other clauses of
the Constitution.
f/ided States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., ante, p. 53, followed as to the
niature of the title of an owner of the bed of navigable waters and
the control of Congress thereover. Monongfahela Na'igalion Co. v.
UJnited Slates, 148 U. S. 312, distinguished as not resting on proprietary rights but on estoppel.
19S N. Y. 2S7, affirmed.

Tinu facts, which involve the rights of private owners to
land under navigable waters within a State used for cultivation of oysters, and whether such parties are entitled to
(ompensation from the Government of the United States
for the destruction of the oyster beds therein by"reason of
improvement of the channel for navigation pursuant to
act, of Congress, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Howard Taylor, for plaintiff in error:
Plaintiff in error is clearly entitled to the relief sought.

LEWIS BILUE POINT OYSTER CO. v. B1GGiS.
229 U. S.

83

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The power of Congress to regulate comierce, and incideit ally navigation, goes hand in hand with the other
powers of and limitations upon the Governient set
forth in the Constitution, and is obviously to be exerfonongohwla
cised in conformity to such limitations.
Alai). Co. v. niited States, 148 U. S. 312, 336; United States
v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, 471.

The right of compensation to the owner of private
property when it has been taken for public use, is a fuldamental inherent right which exists even independlently
of the National or state constitutions, and has merely

been declared therein. Sinnickson v. Johnson, 17 N. J. L.
(2 llarr.) 129, 145.
There has been laid down no exception to this right
because the property taken was growing oysters. The
growing of oysters is a legitimate industry. The oysters
here in question were being grown upon the lands of the
plaintiff, and, of course, upon the only kind of lands
(submerged ones), where the product of that industry
could grow. See Brown v. United States, 81 Fed. Rep. 55;
Richardson v. United States, 100 Fed. Rep. 714, both
decided by Judge Simonton, and holding that the owners of the oyster beds might permit the entry of the
Government's officials and recover compensation in a
direct proceeding. In the case at bar plaintiff simply
seeks to enjoin this entry until the Government takes
proceedings for the condemnation of his property. In this
alternate procedure plaintiff in error is clearly within its
rights. Phila.Co. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605,620; Pomeroy's
Eq. Jurisp., Vol. V, §§ 493, 499.
Plaintiff's constitutional right is plain; the call for its
exercise in this instance is equally plain; and the correct,
remedy has been pursued.
The courts below have misconceived the decisions of
the Federal courts, as those cited afford no basis -for
the adjudication. See opinion of Atty. Gen. Bonaparte,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for the United States.

229 U. S.

Oct. 25, 1907, 26 Ops. 441, citing cases supraand Pumpelly
v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166; see also 27 Ops. Atty.
Gens. 311.
Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, was erroneously
applied to this case. See dissenting opinion in 179 U. S.
169; Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497, 507. Chic., B. & Q.
Ry. Co. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S. 561; West
Chic. Street R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 201 J. S. 506; Union
Bridge 'Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364, are not in
point. See Avery v. Fox, 1 Abb. U. S. 246, S. C.,
Fed. Cas. No. 674; Stockton v. Balt. & N. Y. R. Rt. Co., 32
Fed. Rep. 9; Hawkins Point Light House Case, 39 Fed.
Rep. 77.
There is in the Great South Bay this great and perfectly
legitimate industry of the development of oysters. The
Bluepoint oyster is known from one end of this country to
the other.
The digging of a channel which destroys "a large number of oysters on the lands aforesaid " and "cuts diagonally
through the premises described in said leases" is fundamentally different from the action of the Government in
erecting a lighthouse or putting down a pier into the sea
or the river.
The Government, in such an instance as this, aids
navigation in the sense that it makes a water way where
nature did not make a water way; it makes a place for
vessels of deep draft where nature made a place for skiffs.
In so doing it undertakes a public use. But in so doing, it,
takes private property, which is just as much private
property, and just as much private property taken, as any
other kind of property in this country.
The people whose property is being taken in the course
of that work should be paid for it.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Denison, with whom
Mr. Louis G. Bissell was on the brief, for the United States.

LEWIS BLUE POINT OYSTER CO. v. ]I3Ri(GS.
229 U. S.

85

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE LuRTON

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action to restrain the defendant in error
from dredging upon certain lands under the waters of
Great South Bay in the State of New York. The defense
was that the lands upon which he was engaged in dredging
were under the navigable waters of the bay, which was a
navigable area of the sea, over which enrolled and registered vessels passed in interstate commerce; that Con-

gress had provided for the dredging of a channel some
2,000 feet long and 200 feet wide across said Bay, and that
defendant was engaged as a contractor with the United
States in dredging the channel so authorized. The plaintiff in error, plaintiff below, averred that this channel
would pass diagonally across submerged land in said bay
which it held as lessee under the owner of the fee in the bed
of the bay. The land so held under lease had been planted
with oysters and had been long used for the cultivation of
that variety of oyster known as the "Blue Point." The
claim was that the dredging of such a channel would destroy the oysters of the plaintiff, not only along the line of
excavation, but for some distance on either side, and greatly
impair the value-of his leasehold for oyster cultivation.
The New York Court of Appeals held that the title of
every owner of lands beneath navigable waters was a
qualified one, and subject to the right of Congress to
deepen the channel in the interest of navigation, and such
a "taking" was not a "taking" of private property for
which compensation could be required. The judgment
of the courts below discharging the injunction and dismissing the action was therefore affirmed.
The .case comes here upon the claim that the dredging
of such a channel, although in. the interest of navigation,
is a taking of. private property without just compensation,
forbidden by the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States.

I

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

The foundation of the title to a large portion of the soil
lying under the water of Great South Bay is found, in
certain royal patents made when the State of New York
was a colonial dependency of Great Britain. Through
the patents referred to and certain mesne conveyances,
the lessors of the oyster company have been adjudged to
be seized of the legal title to a large part of the land which
lies at the bottom of that bay. That determination of
title under the local law is not complained of, and mUtt of
course, be accepted and followed by this court. The
single question, therefore, is, whether the deepening of
the channel across the bay in the interest of navigation
with the incidental consequence to the oyster plantation
of the lessee company is a taking of private property
which may be enjoined unless provision for compensation
has been made.
The cultivation of oysters upon the beds of the shallow
waters of bays and inlets of the sea and of the rivers
affected by the tides, has become an industry of great
importance. In many localities the business is regulated
by the laws of the States in which such waters are situated,
and the beds of such waters are parcelled out among
those owning the bottom or holding licenses from the
State, and marked off by stakes indicating the boundaries
of each cultivator. The contention is that whether title
to such an area at the bottom of navigable salt waters
comes from the State, or, as in the case here, from royal
patents antedating the State's right, such actual interest
is thereby acquired that when such area so planted and
cultivated is invaded for the purpose of deepening the
water in aid of navigation, private property is taken. For
this, counsel cite the cases of Brown v. United States, 81
Fed. Rep. 55, decided by Circuit Court Judge Simonton;
and Richardson v. United States, 100 Fed. Rep. 714, also
decided by the same eminent judge. They also cite and
rely upon Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States,

LEWIS BLUE POINT OYSTER CO. v. BRIGGS.
229 U. S.

87

Opinion of the Court.

148 U. S. 312. In the Brown Case, Judge Simonton, whije
recognizing that the navigable waters of the United States
were within the jurisdiction of the United States which
has control over their improvement for navigation, was
of opinion, that so long as the owner of the bed of such
bodies of water did not use it "for the erection of structures
impeding or obstructing navigation," his ownership of
the bottom and his right to put it to such use as did not
obstruct navigation, was a property right, which could
not be destroyed or taken without compensation. From
these considerations he held (p. 57) that "when the Government, for the purpose of adding to the navigability
of a stream, changes its natural channel, and, in doing so,
occupies and assumes exclusive possession of the land of a
citizen, it takes private property." In that case the Government had, in the exercise of its power of improving
navigation, erected a dyke on the oyster beds of the complainant in the shallow salt water of York River, for the
purpose of directing the current of the river and maintaining the channel. The effect of this was to destroy the
property of the owner or lessee of the bed of the river at
that point for the purpose to which it was devoted. This
the learned judge ruled was a "taking" which was not
lawful without compensation.
That case and the later one cited fail to recognize the
qualified nature of the title which a private owner may
have in the" lands lying under navigable waters. If the
public right of navigation is the dominant right and if,
as must be the case, the title of the owner of the bed of
navigable waters holds subject absolutely to thtpublic
right of navigation, this dominant right must include the
right to use the bed of the water for every purpose which
is in aid of navigation. This right to control, improve and
regulate the navigation of such waters is one of the greatest
of the powers delegated to the United States by the power
to regulate commerce. Whatever power the, several

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

States had before the Union was formed, over the navigable waters within their several jurisdictions, has been
delegated to the Congress, in which, therefore, is centered
all of the governmental power over the subject, restricted
only by such limitations as are found in other clauses of
the Constitution.
By necessary implication from the dominant right of
navigation, title to such submerged lands is acquired
and held subject to the power of Congress to deepen the
water over such lands or to use them for any structure
which the interest of navigation, in its judgment, may
require. The plaintiff in error has, therefore, no such
private property right which, when taken, or incidentally
destroyed by the dredging of a deep water channel across
it, entitles him to demand compensation as a condition.
In the Hawkins Point Light House Case, 39 Fed. Rep.
77, it was held that the occupation of the lands under
navigable waters for the purpose of erecting a light house
thereon in aid of navigation was not a taking of private
property requiring compensation, the owner's title being,
by necessary implication, subject to the use which the
United States had made of it. In Scranton v. Wheeler,
57 Fed. Rep. 803, 813, 814, it appeared that the United
States had erected a long dyke or pier upon the submerged lands of a riparian owner on the St. Marys River,
Michigan, cutting off his access to deep water. It was
held that his title was subject to whatever use the Government found appropriate for improving navigation.
The case referred to had been removed from a state
court to the Circuit Court of the United States. Upon
a writ of error to this court, the case was held to have
been improperly removed and was remanded, with direction to remand to the court from which it had been removed. It was there heard and upon review by the Supreme Court of Michigan, the plaintiff's action was dismissed upon the same ground upon which the Circuit

LEWIS BLUE POINT OYSTER CO. v. BRIGGS.
229 U. S.

89

Opinion of the Court.

Court had dismissed it. The case then came to this
court upon a writ of error to the Michigan court, and the
judgment was affirmed. Concerning the nature of the
title of a riparian owner to submerged lands over which
his boundary extends, this court said:
"Whatever the nature of the interest of a riparian
owner in the submerged lands in front of his upland
bordering on a public navigable water, his title is not as
full and complete as his title to fast land which has no
direct connection with the navigation of such water. It
is a qualified title, a bare technical title, not at his absolute disposal, as is his upland, but to be held at all
times subordinate to such use of the submerged lands
and of the waters flowing over them as may be consistent
with or demanded by the public right of navigation."
Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 163.
The whole subject of the nature and character of the
interest of the owner of such a title and the scope of the
control of the Congress over navigable rivers has been
fully considered by this court in United States v. ChandlerDunbar Water Power Co., just decided, ante, p. 53, where
the decision in Scranton v. Wheeler was fully affirmed.
The case of the Monongahela Navigation Company v.
United States, 148 U. S. 312, 335, has been cited as a case
in which the owners of a lock and canal and a franchise
to take tolls were awarded compensation not only for
the tangible property taken but for the value to the company of the State's franchise to take tolls. That case
really rests upon estoppel. The lock and dam had been
constructed "at the instance and implied invitation of
Congress." After stating the action of Congress, the court
said:
"This is something more than the mere recognition
of an existing fact; it is an invitation to the company
to do the work; and when in pursuance of that invitation,
and under authority given by the State of Pennsylvania,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

the company has constructed the lock and dam, it does
not lie in the power of the State or the United States to
say that such lock and dam are an obstruction and wrongfully there, or that the right to compensation for the use

of this improvement by the public does not belong to its
owner, the Navigation Company."
Compare Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S.
'364.
The conclusion we reach, is that the court below did
not err in dismissing the action of the plaintiff in error,

and the judgment is accordingly
Affirvmed.

SHELTON v. KING.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 180.

Argued March 11, 12, 1913.-Decided May 26. 1913.

Trustees having the power to exercise discretion will not be interfered
with by a court of equity, at the instmce of the beneficiaries, so
lg "asthey are acting bona fide.
III the absence of circuinstanccs and conditions not provided for in the
will, there being no question of perpetuities or restriction of alienation and creditors not being concerned, the court should not compel testamentary trustees to anticilate the timc of payment of
legacies which the testator expressly provided should be held in
trust for the legatees until a specified time.
Wlhile one may not by his own act preserve to himself the enjoyment
of his own property in such manner that it shall not be subject to
claims of creditors or to his own power of alienation, a testator may
bestow his own property in that manner upon one to whom he
wishes to secure beneficial enjoyment without being subject to the
claims of assignees or creditors. Claftin v.Claflin, 149M,assachusetts,
19, approved.
The courts of tlhis country have r(jeeted the English doctrine that

