TEX. & PAC. RY. CO. v. PRATER.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ularity in docketing the case or in the order of the pleadings such an irregularity was waivable and neither it nor
the method of getting the parties before the court operated
to deprive it of the power to determine the cause.
The Fourth question certified to us by the Circuit Court of
Appeals is answered in the affirmative.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
PRATER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 211.

Submitted April 15, 1913.-, Decided May 26, 1913.

There ,being evidence to sustain the verdict that plaintiff was not

guilty of contributory negligence, the court below properly denied
a motion to direct a verdict for the defendant, and this court affirms
the judgment with ten per cent. damages.
183 Fed. Rep. 574, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment against a railroad company for personal injuries sustained by one of its employ~s, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. W. L. Hall for plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. C. Prater, pro se, and Mr. A. W. Gregg for defendlant in error.
Memorandum opinion, by direction of the court, by
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR.

The plaintiff, a locomotive engineer, sued for personal
injuries resulting from a collision with a freight train
VOL. ecxxix.-12,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

which had been left standing, without danger signals, on
the t'rack in the defendant's railroad yard at Thurber
Junction, Texas. The company contended that he had
been guilty of contributory negligence in failing to keep
a lookout, in running at a high rate of speed, and disregarding rules requiring the engineer to keep the locomotive
under control in anticipation that cars might be on the
tracks within yard limits. The evidence for the plaintiff
tended to show that he' was in the exercise of proper diligence; that from his position on the right of the locomotive he could look straight down the track, but on
account of th@ height of the boiler, could not see the freight
train, which was standing on a curve, which there turned
to the left; that it was about dark and the freight train
having no danger signals, and being out of range of the
headlight, was not seen by the fireman, on the left of the
engine, until too late to avoid the collision, although the
emergency brake was applied as soon as he saw the danger
and gave warning to the engineer.
The defendant offered evidence tending to show that
the speed exceeded that permitted in the yard limits and
that the freight train could have been seen in time to stop
if proper lookout had been kept. From the physical
condition proved, and the whole evidence, the company
moved the court to direct a verdict in its favor. The
motion was overruled and the jury found for the plaintiff.
There was no exception to the charge, but the case was
taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals on the ground that,
from the undisputed evidence, the plaintiff was shown to
have been guilty of contributory negligence. That court
held (183 Fed. Rep. 574) that though the evidence was
conflicting that for the plaintiff was sufficient to sustain
the verdict. In that view we fully concur; and, as there
is no question of law involved, the judgment is affirmed
with ten per cent, damages.
Affirmed.

