AIIAMS v. RUSSELL.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ADAMS v. RUSSELL, WARDEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.

No. 1048.

Submitted May 12, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.

This court will not review the judgment of the state court when it rests
not only on Federal, but also on non-Federal grounds, and the latter
are sufficient to sustain it and were necessarily decided.
Whether state officers have power to grant a parole under a state indeterminate sentence act, and under what conditions, are for the
state court to finally determine.
The state court having held that, under the applicable statutes, the
parole granted to a prisoner was absolutely void and was therefore
properly vacated, such ground is sufficient to sustain the judgment,
and this court, cannot review it on the asserted Federal question that
the state officers had vacated the parole in such manner as to violate the prisoner's constitutional rights secured by the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Whether a state statute allowing prisoners a reduction for "good time"
is part of an indeterminate sentence act is for the state court to determine, and in this case it is a substantial local question on which
to rest the judgment of the state court.
Writ of error to review 169 Michigan, 606, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review a judgment of the state court which rests upon
non-Federal as well as Federal grounds, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Fred A. Baker for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Grant Fellows, Attorney General of the State of
Michigan, and Mr. Thomas A. Lawler, Assistant Attorney
General, for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
couft.
Error to review the action of the Supreme Court of
AMichigan, denying plaintiff in error a writ of habeas corpus.
VOL. CCXXiX-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

The facts, as alleged in the petition, are these:
Plaintiff in error was convicted in the Recorder's Court
of the City of Detroit of the crime of seduction and sentenced to imprisomnent for not less than two and one-half
yeirs and for not more than five years. The case was reviewed by the Supreme Court of the State on a bill of exceptions and a writ of error and the sentence and judgment
of the court below affirmed. Pending the writ of error he
was released from imprisonment, but after his sentence
was affirmed he was recommitted to prison and ever since
has remained there. He duly made application to the
Advisory Board of Pardons for a parole under Act No. 184
of the Public Acts of 1905 (June 7, 1905, Pub. Acts, 1905,
p. 268), as amended. On December 5, 1911, the board
granted and delivered to the warden of the prison a
certificate or warrant of parole by which he was paroled
"for two months from and after January 29, 1912."
On December 11, 1.911, the action of the board paroling
plaintiff in error was vacated, for the reason, as the records
show, that it was at that date "in possession of facts not
known at the time of such actionY The warden was
notified of the action of the board.
This action of the board was without notice to plaintiff
in error and gave him no opportunity to be heard or to
disprove the charge or facts alleged against him.
Having served his minimum sentence and having been
granted, a parole he is not now imprisoned on any process,
judgment, decree or execution specified in ยง 8 of the
Habeas Corpus Act of the State.
On March 5, 1912, he presented a petition for a writ of
habeas corpus to the Supreme Court of the State in which
he set up the facts of his case as above stated and alleged
the illegality of his imprisonment as -follows: (1) The
Advisory Board has no jurisdiction or authority to vacate
'the parole granted to him, the power and authority to retake and retUrn any paroled convict to the prison being.

ADAMS v. RUSSELL.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

within the exclusive jurisdiction and discretion of the
warden or superintendent of the prison. (2) If the Indeterminate Sentence Act is construed to confer such
power upon the board without notice to the convict, then
said act is in conflict with the provision of the constitution
of the State which prohibits cruel and unusual punishment or the taking of life, liberty or property without due
process of law, and against the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. (3) If so construed, the
convict would be twice punished for the same offense.
(4) The Indeterminate Sentence Act and the rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder contemplate that a
convict's parole will not be annulled except when he
violates the terms and conditions of his parole or the rules
and regulations. (5) His term of imprisonment has expired.
The Supreme Court instead of granting a writ of habeas
corpus as prayed, granted a writ of certiorari to inquire
into the cause of detention, under the authority of ยง 9889
of the Michigan Compiled Laws of 1897. The court also
granted a common law writ of certiorari to bring the record
of the Advisory Board before it, and both writs were made
returnable April 2, 1912.
Returns were made to the writs, which plaintiff in error
traversed so far as they set forth facts which were alleged
in a communication to the board, attached to the returns.
The case so made up was argued and submitted to the
court on April 2, 1912.
The Attorney General made no attempt to sustain the
power or jurisdiction of the Advisory Board to annul a
parole without notice to the convict, but contended that
as the Supreme Court in affirming the conviction of plaintiff) In error had held that the time he was out on bail
should not be included in determining the length of his

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S

imprisonment, he was "subject to imprisonment under
the sentence for the unexpired part thereof remaining at
the time of his release" (on bail), his minimum sentence
not expiring until January 29, 1912, and his parole was
void because his application was made and acted upon
before the expiration of his minimum sentence.
The court held that his parole was void on the ground
taken by the Attoney General, and the petition was
denied. 169 Michigan, 606.
Plaintiff in error and his counsel inadvertently overlooked the fact that he was entitled under the laws of
Michigan to a deduction from his minimum sentence for
the "good time" accorded to convicts in the prisons of the
State. Under the laws of the State he had earned and was
entitled during the first and second years of his sentence,
to five days "good time" for each month, and, during the
third year, to six days each month, making a total of one
hundred and thirty-eight days, so that his minimum sentence of two years had expired before his application for
parole.
The prison parole law of the State has been in existence
since 1905, and down to the decision of the Supreme Court
in his case, it was the constant practice of the Advisory
Board to receive and act upon applications of convicts
before and in anticipation of the expiration of their minimum sentences and to grant paroles from a designated
date, at or after the expiration of the convict's minimum
sentence. At the time of the decision there were a large
number of paroles outstanding and these have been recognized as legal and valid, and, notwithstanding the decision,
no paroled convict or prisoner other than plaintiff in error
has been kept in or returned to prison on the ground that
his parole was prematurely granted and void. Discrimination is alleged to result against him and a violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.

ADAMS v. RUSSELL.
22 9 IT.
S.

Opinion of the Court.

Twenty-eight cases are enumerated, and it is alleged that
the board, since the decision, has continued the practice.
Plaintiff in error alleged the illegality of his imprisonment as follows: (1) His minimum sentence had expired
at the time the board received and acted upon his application for parole, and the order of release was a valid warrant
or instrument for his discharge.

(2) The board had no

power to vacate it, or, if it had such power, it was only
uI)on notice. (3) The parole law, as enforced, discriminates
against him and denies him the equal protection of the
laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States. (6) The vacating of
his parole was a violation of the due process clause of that
Amendment. (7),He was not guilty of any violation of his
parole. (8) The reasons given in his former petition were
repeated and relied on.
It is not necessary to set forth the exhibits to the petition. They are sufficiently indicated in the petition. The
board's action in vacating the parole was induced by a
communication made to it by the prosecuting officer of
the county, stating the circumstances of the crime for
which Adams was convicted. They are not important,
however, to the legal propositions involved, and even to a
consideration of the latter a question of jurisdiction is
interposed.
It will be observed that the questions in the second
petition (that under consideration) are the same as those
presented in the first. In both, local and Federal questions
appear. We say Federal questions, for at least there are
claims in words under the Constitution of the United
States. They depend upon two propositions-(1) If the
Indeterminate Sentence Act be construed as giving the
Advisory Board power to annul the parole without notice,
it violates the due process clause of the Constitution of the
TInited States.
(2) The parole as enforced denies plaintiff
in error the equal protection of the law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Granting for the time being that these propositions are
not merely dependencies of the local questions, that is,
are not dependent upon the statute, may we review them?
We have seen that the Supreme Court decided that the
parole was void, the Advisory Board having no power
under the statute to grant it. The ground of the ruling
was that plaintiff in error's minimum sentence had not
expired. In his second petition he alleges that his term
had expired on account of credit due him for "good time"
accorded convicts in the prisons of the State, that his
counsel had inadvertently overlooked the fact that he
was entitled to such credit, which amounted to a total of
one hundred and thirty-eight days, and that, therefore,
his sentence had actually expired before his application for
parole. The petition was denied without opinion and
it is left indefinite upon what ground-whether the court
entertained views adverse to plaintiff 'in error's on the
Federal questions or whether it considered that its former
decision determined his rights; whether, as a matter of
procedure, a rehearing was his remedy, or whether the
new claim of "good time" allowance was tenable under
the statute. In such situation may we conjecture
upon which ground the court decided and by conjecture
acquire jurisdiction to review the judgment of the
court?
In Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361, it is decided that when
there is a Federal and state question in the case and the
latter is sufficient to sustain the judgment, this court will
not review the judgment, and the logical course is to dismiss the writ of error. But we may be put to infer what
points may have been raised and what was decided; in
other words, whether the state ,court rested its decision
upon a Federal ground or upon an independent ground.
If the latter be contended, then it must appear that such
ground was a good and valid oD.-, sufficient to sustain the
judgment. Klinger v. Missouri, 13, Wall. 257, 263. Other-

ADAMS v. RUSSELL.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

wise, as was said in Neilson v. Lagow, 12 How. 98, 110,
"counsel might raise on the record some point of local
law, however erroneous, and suggest that the court below
may have rested its judgment thereon," and, therefore, if
the independent ground be not good and valid it will not
be presumed that the judgment was based upon it. See
also Magwire v. Tyler, 8 Wall. 650. If, however, the state
qu(stion have that quality, and there be uncertainty as to
the ground of decision, this court will not assume jurisdiction. Dibble v. Bellingham Bay Land Co., 163 U. S. 63, 69;
A llen v. Arguimbau, 198 U. S. 149.
In Commercial Bank v. Rochester, 15 Wall. 639, a suit
was brought to recover a tax charged to have been illegally
levied and collected upon the capital stock of the bank alleged to have been invested in United States bonds. The
case was dismissed for want of jurisdiction. We said, by
Mr. Justice Miller: "It has been so often held by this
court, that the question on which the plaintiff in error
relies to give it jurisdiction must appear to have been
decided by the state court, that it has become one of the
settled principles on that subject." And further, "It is
said in this case that the court [state court] must have
decided in favor of the validity of the tax, which it is conceded would have given this court jurisdiction. But this
does not appear either affirmatively or by necessary intendment. For the case may have been decided on the
form of the remedy which, the practic in the state courts
required the plaintiff to adopt, or on the technical insufficiency of the pleading. In this uncertainty of the record
as an indication we may, without going further, dismiss the
case on that ground." It was objected that the state
decision precluded the view that the case was decided on
the local rules of pleading, to which it was replied that,
the state court was the proper tribunal to decide the
question, and that we were not authorized to say that the
court did not decide it correctly or that it made any deci-

OCTO)BEPIM TETklM, 1912,
Opinion of the ('01111.

229 U H.

sion adverse to the exemption of the securities of the
United States from state taxation.
In RailroadCompany v. Rock, 4 Wall. 177, and Insurance
Company v. Treasurer, 11 Wall. 204, there was a possibility of two grounds of decision, Federal and local, and this
court declined to review the judgments. See also Todd v.
Daniel, 16 Peters, 521, 525.
In Bachtel v. Wilson, 204 U. S. 36, 41, 42, we said, by
Mr. Justice Brewer, that before we can pronounce a judgment of a state court to be "in conflict with the Federal
Constitution, it must be made to appear that its decision
was one necessarily in conflict therewith and not that possibly, or even probably, it was." The case involved the
consideration of a state statute which presented two questions, one of which, at least, presented no matter of a
Federal nature, and in respect to each of which something
might be said one way and the other, and until it was
shown what the Supreme Court did in fact decide it was
impossible to hold that the section as construed by it was
in conflict with the Federal Constitution. Under these
circumstances it was held that this court had no jurisdiction, and the writ of error was dismissed. Johnson v.
Risk, 137 U. S. 300, was cited. No opinion was given by
the state court in Bachtel v. Wilson, nor in the cited case.
In neither case, therefore, did the record disclose the
specific ground upon which the court proceeded. In such
case, we said in Johnson v. Risk, by Mr. Chief Justice
Fuller, that when the application of a state statute in a
matter purely local was involved, if a plaintiff in error
wished to claim that the cause was disposed of by the decision of a Federal question, he should obtain the certificate of the Supreme Court to that effect, or the assertion
in the judgment that such was the fact. DeSaussure v.
Gaillard, 127 U. S. 216, was adduced as deciding that to
give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error to a state
court it must appear affirmatively not only that a Federal

ADAMS v. RUSSELL.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

question was presented for decision but that its decision
was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that
it was actually decided, Pr that the judgment as rendered
could not have been rendered without deciding it.
The rule is a salutary one in view of the different jurisdictions of the state courts and of this court. It leaves in
both the full plenitude of their powers. It permits no
evasion by the state court of the responsibility of determining the Federal question if necessary to be determined;:,
it permits no assumption by this court of jurisdiction to
review the decision of local questions. The sufficieney of
the local question to sustain the judgment rendered, and
the necessity for the determination of the Federal question
necessarily we have to 6onsider, but, as was said in Johnson v. Risk, "Where a defense is distinctly made, resting
on local statutes; we should not, in order to reach a Federal
question, resort to critical conjecture as to the action of
the court in the disposition of such defense." And, of
course, the principle is applicable whether the question is
presented as a ground of defense or a ground of action.
It certainly cannot be said that in the case at bar, the
Supreme Court had not, grounds of decision based on the
local law, whether considered substantively or administratively. The "good time" law and the indeterminate
sentence law were enacted at different times. Whether
the former is part of the latter is a state question, and
whether the Supreme Court has decided in the present case
contrary to. its ruling in a prior case may or may not be
true. And, again, it is a state question, whether the
"good time" law applies to the minimum sentence imposed, which, it is contended by defendant in error, is
fixed and certain, not subject to diminution, ยง 5 of the
Indeterminate Sentence Act providing that "prisoners
under the provisions of this act shall be eligible to parole
after the expiration of their minimum term of imprisonment, and prisoners who have been twice previously con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

victed of a felony shall not be eligible to a parole." In
other words, it is contended that the reduction for "good
time" should be only from the maximum term, that being
the sentence referred to in the "good time" law, which
provides: "Every convict who shall have no infraction of
the rules of the prison or the laws of the State recorded
against him, shall be entitled to a reduction from his
sentence," etc. It has been determined in other jurisdictions that the maximum term constitutes the sentence.
See Ex parte Spencer, Scholl and Moyer, 228 U. S. 652; Commonwealth v. Brown, 167 Massachusetts, 144; Oliver v.
Oliver, 169 Massachusetts, 592. In support of the contentioi that the Indeterminate Sentence Law and its provisions for parole did not in any way repeal or modify the
Good Time Law plaintiff in error cites the last clause of
ยง 6, which reads as follows:
"The convict so paroled, while at large, by virtue of such
parole, shall be deemed to be still serving the sentence
imposed upon him, and shall be entitled to good time the
same as if confined in prison."
On the assumption made, the query yet remains, To
what sentence is the good time to apply? We have seen,
the Supreme Court has decided that a convict cannot be
paroled until his minimum sentence has expired, and that
good time does not apply to the minimum sentence, receives support from the fact that neither the counsel for
the parties, nor the court upon the first petition, thought
of the construction plaintiff in error now urges for the
"good time" law and its operation to reduce his minimum sentence. We are not required to resolve the dispute.
We have stated the respective contentions of the parties
to show that there were substantial local questions in the
case upon which the Supreme Court may have decided it.
It follows, therefore, upon the authority of the cases which
we have cited, that the writ of error must be dismissed.
Dismissed.

