AM. NAT'L BANK v. MILLER.
229 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK OF NASHVILLE,
TENNESSEE, v. MILLER, AGENT OF THE FIRST
NATIONAL BANK OF MACON, GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH

No. 325.

CIRCUIT.

Argued May 9, 1913.-Decided June 9, 1913.

When a bank has performed the dual function of collecting and crediting a check the transaction is closed; and, in the absence of fraud or
mutual mistake, the transaction is equivalent to payment in usual
course as though presented to another bank and paid over the
counter. National Bank v. Burkhardt, 100 U. S. 686.
While knowledge of an officer of a bank of a fact which it is his duty
to declare, and not his interest to conceal, is to be treated as that of
the bank; where it is his interest to conceal such knowledge the
law does not, by a fiction, charge the bank with such knowledge.
There is a presumption that an officer of a bank will disclose his knowledge of matters which affect the bank and which it is not to his personal interest to conceal; and there is also presumption that he will
not disclose those matters *of which he has knowledge and which it
is his interest to conceal, including his own bankruptcy and indebtedness to other banks.
A bank, on which the president of another bank just before his own
bankruptcy drew a check in favor of the latter, cannot, after having
paid the check by crediting it to the payee bank, cancel the credit
and retain the money on the ground that the payee bank is to be imputed with constructive knowledge of its president's bankruptcy.
185 Fed. Rep. 338, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve, the right of a bank to cancel
payments made on a bankrupt's check on the ground of
constructive knowledge of the bankruptcy on the part of
the payee, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John M. Gaut, with whom Mr. J. S. Pilcher was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

229 U. S.

The Nashville Bank, at the time when it made the book
entries and mailed the letter of advice, was in total ignorance of the bankrupt's insolvency, suspension and bankruptcy.
Having acted under mistake of fact, that bank had the
right, as between itself and the bankrupt or any one standing in his shoes, to revoke the book entries and -make
the set-off. Re Farmers' Bank, 13 Fed. Rep. 361; Re
Dickinson, 5 Fed., B. R. 483; Union Bank v. McKay,
102 Fed. Rep. 662; Kelley v. Solare, 9 Meeson & Welsby,
54; Bell v. Gardner, 4 Man. & Gran. 10; French v. DeBow,
38 Michigan, 708; Noble v. Doughten, 72 Kansas, 336.
The Nashville Bank also had the right, as between itself
and the First National, to revoke the book entries on the
ground of mistake. The latter bank, having given no
value for the check, and suffered no injury by its reception, the equities of the former were superior. Guild v.
Baldridge, 2 Swan (Tenn.), 295; Bank of Repub. v. Baxter,
31 Vermont, 101; 5 Cyc. of Law & Pro. 542b. The check
Was not payment, but only means of payment.
It was a wrong upon the Nashville Bank for the bankrupt, in his condition of insolvency, to have drawn and
delivered the check, and especially wrong, after his act
of notorious insolvency, not to have notified that bank of
the fact. Kerr on Fraud and Mistake, 109; Mitchell v.
Warden, 20 Barb. 253; Pegulus v. Taylor, 38 Barb. 375;
Choffer v. Fort, 2 Lansing, 81; Sharkeyv. Mansfield, 90
N. Y., 227.
If the First National knew of his state of insolvency,
it, was particeps criminis in not informing the. Nashville
Bank. Peterson v. Union Bank, 52 Pa. St. 206.
The First National, independent of any imputation to
it of the bankrupt's knowledge, did have knowledge of the
insolvency before the contract of deposit was consummated.
The First National, at the time it received the check,

AM. NAT'L BANK v. MILLER.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

knew of this indebtedness by the imputation of Plant's
knowledge. St. Louis R. Co. v. Johnston, 133 U. S. 566.
The doctrine of imputation exists in all cases where the
agent is acting, withiin the scope of his authority. The
doctrine does not rest on a presumption that the agent
will communicate his information to his principal.
Whether the act of payment itself is considered or the results of the payment, his interests certainly were not adverse to, but were concurrent with, those of the First
National.
Even if the doctrine of imputation did rest on the probability of the agent communicating his knowledge to
his principal, there was no improbability that the bankrupt would have communicated to the other officers of the
bank, had there been any occasion to do so, the fact that he
owed another bank.
Mr. Sloss D. Baxter for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
R. H. Plant, of Macon, Georgia, kept a deposit account
with the American National Bank of Nashville, and, on
May 16, 1904, was indebted to it in the sum of $50,000
on paper which matured two or three weeks later. He
was generally regarded as a wealthy man, but was in
fact insolvent. While so insolvent he, on May 13, 1904,
gave to the First National Bank of Macon, of which he
was President, a check for $3,000 on account of an indebtedness due by him to it.
The Macon Bank at once mailed the check to the Nashville Bank with instructions to place it to the credit of
the Macon Bank. The check was received by the Nashville Bank at 8 o'clock Monday morning, May 16. The
letter was opened shortly after nine o'clock, and was
credited to the Macon Bank's account about 11 o'clock
A. M.,-an hour or so after a petition in bankruptcy had

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

. 1.

229 U. S.

been filed against Plant in Macon.,, His failure precipitated a run on the Macon Bank, and, the same day, by
direction of the Comptroller of the Treasury, a Receiver
was appointed for it under ยง 5234, Rev. Stat.
The Nashville Bank was not advised of either of these
failures, and about 2 o'clock it charged the $3,000 check
to Plant's account and the same day mailed to the Macon
Bank a letter stating that its account had been credited
with $3,000. Four or five days later, having learned of
Plant's bankruptcy, it charged off the $3,000, claiming
that Plant's insolvency, on May 16, gave to the Nashville Bank the right of set-off even as against the unmatured drafts. Carr v. Hamilton, 129 U. S. 252, 256.
The plaintiff was subsequently appointed agent of
the Macon Bank under Rev. Stat., ยง 5234, and brought
suit against the Nashville Bank for the recovery of the
$3,000. Most of the facts were agreed upon, but much
evidence was taken for the purpose of showing that the
Macon Bank had notice -of Plant's insolvency, and at
the conclusion of the testimony each party moved that
a verdict be directed in its favor. Beuttell v. Magone,
157 U. S. 154. The court instructed the jury to find for
the plaintiff. The judgment was affirmed (185 Fed. Rep.
338) by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
There are some disadvantages of sending a check for
collection directly to the bank on which it is drawn, but
when such bank performs the dual function of collecting
and crediting the transaction is closed and, in the absence
of fraud or mutual mistake, is equivalent to payment in
usual course. National Bank v. Burkhardt, 100 U. S.
686, 689. In the present case it was as though an officer
of the Macon Bank had presented the check to the Teller
of the Nashville Bank and on receiving the money had
paid it back over the counter for deposit to the credit
of the Macon Bank.
The Nashville Bank, however, claims that there was

AM. NAT'L BANK v. MILLER.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

here the element of fraud and mistake which entitles
it to cancel the credit; insisting that the Macon Bank,
having notice that Plant was insolvent, could not collect
the check for $3,000 without notifying the Nashville
Bank of such insolvency so that it might assert its superior
right under its banker's lien and set off the $3,000 deposit
against Plant's debt of $50,000.
The law undoubtedly permits an insolvent to prefer
one creditor over another and allows such creditor to
retain such preferential payment against all persons,except the Trustee in Bankruptcy, when the payment
has been made within four months of the filing of the
petition in bankruptcy and with reasonable cause to
believe that a preference would be effect'ed. We do not
enter upon the question as to whether this right to be
preferred is modified by principles of equity or whether
the holder of a check, in presenting it to a bank for payment, is bound to give information that the bank's depositor and debtor was insolvent. For in this case it
distinctly appears that the officers of the Macon Bank
did not know that Plant was insolvent at the time he
gave the check, at the time they mailed the check or at
the time it was received by the Nashville Bank, nor did
they know that Plant was indebted to the Nashville
Bank. Such notice, however, is sought to be imputed to
the Macon Bank because Plant was its President, and it
is argued that what he knew the bank must be considered
as knowing.
This presents another phase of the oft-recurring question as to when and how far notice to an agent is notice
to his principal. In view of the many decisions on the
subject it is unnecessary to do more than to apply them
to the facts of this case. If Plant, within the scope of
his office, had knowledge of a fact which it was his duty
to declare and not to his interest to conceal, then his
knowledge is to be treated as that of the bark. For he is

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

then presumed to have done what he ought to have done
and to have actually given the information to his principal.
But if the fact of his own insolvency and of his personal
indebtedness to the Nashville Bank were matters which
it was to his interest to conceal, the law does not by a
fiction charge the Macon Bank, of which he was President, with notice of facts which the agent not only did
not disclose, but which he was interested in concealing.
Plant was a private banker in Macon and as such
indebted to the First National Bank of Macon, of which
he was President and so far dominated as to compel it to
take care of the large balances against him in the clearing
house, frequently more than 50 per cent. of the $200,000
capital of the Macon Bank. On May 13th Plant was
indebted to the Macon Bank on this account between
$75,000 and $100,000. A National Bank Examiner was
in the city and it was expected that he would examine
the books of the Macon Bank within a few days, when
this illegal overdraft by the President would appear.
Rev. Stat., ยง 5200; Evans v. United States, 153 U. S. 584.
Plant thereupon gave the Bank checks and commercial
paper to pay the balance. It was to his personal interest
to conceal any fact which would prevent the Macon Bank
from receiving paper in satisfaction of a debt which had
been unlawfully contracted by reason of his official
position. An element of that interest was that he should
conceal not only the fact of his insolvency but the fact
of his indebtedness to the Nashville Bank, lest the Macon
Bank should thereby refuse to take the $3,000 check at
its face value. Without, therefore, inquiring as to what
would have been the duty of the Macon Bank had it
known of Plant's insolvency and indebtedness on the
850,000 drafts, we hold that as it had no such knowledge
in fact it was not charged with such knowledge in law.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

