NASI v. UNITED STATES.
229 U. S.

Syllabus.

the wide discretion allowed to the trial court are well
brought out in Sargent v. Merrimac, 196 Massachusetts,
171. Much depends on the circumstances of the particular case. We are satisfied on all the authorities that
whether we should have agreed or disagreed with the
Commissioners, if we had been valuing the land, there was
no such disregard of plain rights by the courts of New
York as to warrant our treating their decision, made
without prejudice, in due form and after full hearing, as
a denial by the State of due process of law.
Judgment affirmed,
MR. JUSTICE DAY

dissents.

NASH v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 197.

Argued March 18, 19, 1913.-Decided June 9, 1913.

In many instances a man's fate depends upon his rightly estimating,
that is as the jury subsequently 6stimates it, some matter of degree,
and there is no constitutional difficulty in the way of enforcing the
criminal provisions of the Sherman Anti Trust Act on the ground of
uncertainty as to the prohibitions.
The Sherman Act punishes the conspiracies at which it is aimed on the
common law footing and does not make the doing of any act other
than the act of conspiring a condition of liability. In this respect it
diiTerA from ยง 5440 and the indictment need not -aver overt acts in
"furtherance of the conspiracy. Brown v. Elliott, 225 U. S. 392, distinguished.
This court can see no reason for reading into the Sherman Act more
than it finds there.
It is not necessary for an indictment under the Sherman Act to allege

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

or prove that all the conspirators proceeded against are traders.
Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274.

Where the indictment under the Sherman Act alleges numerous
methods employed by the defendants to accomplish the purpose to
restrain trade, it is not necessary, in order to convict, to prove every
means alleged but it is error to charge that a verdict may be permitted on any one of them when some of them would not warrant a
finding of conspiracy.

186 Fed. Rep. 489, reve' sod.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and

sentence for alleged violations of the Sherman AntiTrust Act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel B. Adams and Mr. John C. Spooner, with
whom Mr. George Rublee was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Assistant to The Attorney General Fowler, with whom
Mr. Alexander Akerman, United States Attorney, was on
the brief, for the United States.
M . JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an indictment in two counts-the first for a conspiracy in restraint of trade, the second for a conspiracy to
monopolize trade, contrary to the act of July 2, 1890,
c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, commonly known as the Sherman
Act. Originally there was a third count for monopolizing,
but it was held bad on demurrer and was struck out.
The allegations of fact in the two counts are alike.
Summed up in narrative form they are as follows: The
American Naval Stores Company, a West Virginia corporation having its principal office in Savannah and branch
offices in New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, etc., was engaged in buying, selling, shipping and exporting spirits
of turpentine in and from Southern States to other States
and abroad. Nash was the president; Shotter, chairman

NASH v. UNITED STATES.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the board of directors; Myers, vice-president; Boardman, treasurer; DeLoach, secretary, and Moller, manager of the Jacksonville, Florida, branch. The National
Transportation and Terminal Company, a New Jersey
corporation, had warehouses and terminals for handling
spirits of turpentine and naval stores at Fernandina, and
other places named, in Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, etc.,
and was engaged in storing such turpentine and rosin and
issuing warehouse receipts for the same. Myers was the
.president; DeLoach the secretary and Moller manager of
the Jacksonville branch. On May 1, 1907, it is alleged,
these corporations and individuals conspired to restrain
commerce in the articles named, among the States and
with foreign nations-the restraint to be effected in the
following ways among others: (1) by bidding down turpentine and rosin so that competitors could sell them only
at ruinous prices; .(2) by causing naval stores receipts that
naturally would go to one port to go to another; (3) by
purchasing thereafter a large part of 'its' supplies at
ports known as closed ports and, with intent to depress
the market, refraining from purchasing any appreciable
part at Savannah, the primary market in the United
States for naval stores, where purchases would tend to
strengthen prices, the defendants taking the receipts at
the closed ports named on a basis of the market at Savannah; (4) by coercing factors and brokers into contracts
with the defendants for the storage and purchase of their
receipts and refusing to purchase from such factors and
brokers unless such contracts were entered into.; (5) by
circulating false statements as to naval stores production
and stocks on hand; (6) by issuing fraudulent warehouse
receipts; (7) by fraudulently grading, regrading and raising
grades of rosins and falsely gauging spirits of turpentine;
(8) by attempting to bribe employ 6 s of competitors so
as to bbtain information concerning their business and
stocks; (9) by inducing consumers, by payments and

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

threats of boycotts, to postpone dates of delivery of contract supplies and thus enabling defendants to postpone
purchasing when to purchase would tend to strengthen the
market; (10) by making tentative offers of large amounts
of naval stores to depress the market, accepting contracts
only for small amounts and purchasing when the market
had been depressed by the offers; (11) by selling far below
cost in order to compel competitors to meet prices ruinous
to everybody; (12) by fixing the price of turpentine below
the cost of production-all the foregoing being for the purpose of driving competitors out of business and restraining
foreign trade or, in the second count, of doing the same and
monopolizing the trade.
The two counts before us were demurred to on the
grounds that the statute was so vague as to be inoperative
on its criminal side; that neither of the counts alleged any
overt act; that the contemplated acts and things would
not have constituted an offence if they had been done, and
that the same acts, etc., were too vaguely charged. The
demurrer was overruled and this action of the court raises
the important questions of the case. We will deal with
them before passing to matters of detail.
The objection to the criminal operation of the statute is
thought to be warranted by The Standard Oil Co.* v.
United States, 221 U. S. 1, and United States v. American
Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106. Those cases may be taken to
have established that only such contracts and combinations are within the act as, by reason of intent or the inherent nature o6 the contemplated acts; prejudice the
public interests by unduly restricting competition or unduly obstructing, the course of trade. 221 U. S. 179. And
thereupon it is said that the crime thus defined by the
statute contains in its definition an element of degree as
to which estimates may differ, with the result that a man
might find himself in prison because his honest judgment
did not anticipate that of a jury of less competent men.

NASH v. UNITEI,)
229 U. S.

STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

The kindred proposition that 'the criminality of an act
cannot depend upon whether a jury may think it reasonable or unreasonable. There must be some definiteness
and certainty,' is cited from the late Mr. Justice Brewer
sitting in the Circuit Court. Tozer v. United States, 52
Fed. Rep. 917, 919.
But apart from the common law as to restraint of trade
thus taken up by the statute the law is full of instances
where a man's fate depends on his estimating rightly, that
.is, as the jury subsequently estimates it, some matter of
degree. If his judgment is wrong, not only may he incur
a fine or a short imprisonment, as here; he may incur the
penalty of death. "An act causing death may be murder,
manslaughter, or misadventure according to the degree
of danger attending it" by commbn experience in the
circumstances known to the actor. "The very meaning
of the fiction of implied malice in such cases at common
law was, that a man might havv to answer with his life
for consequences which'he neither intended nor foresaw."
Commonwealth v. Pierce, 138 Massachusetts, 165, 178.
Commonwealth v. Chance, 174 Massachusetts, 245, 252.
"The criterion in such cases is to examine whether common social duty would,' under the circumstances, have
suggested a more circumspect conduct." 1 East P. C.
262. If a man should kill another by driving an automobile furiously into a crowd he might be convicted of murder however little he expected the result. See Reg. v.
Desmond, and other illustrations in Stephen, Dig. Crim.
Law, art 223, 1st ed., p. 146. If he did no more than
drive negligently through a street he might get off with
manslaughter or less. Reg. v. Swindall, 2 C. & K. 230;
Rex v. Burton, 1 Strange, 481. And in the last case he
might be held although he himself thought that he was
acting as a prudent man should. See The Germanic, 196
U. S. 589, 596. But without further argument, -the case
is very nearly disposed of by Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v.

OCTOB3ER. TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Texas (No. 1), 212 U. S. 86, 109, where Mr. Justice
Brewer's decision and other similar ones were cited in vain.
We are of opinion that there is no constitutional difficulty
in the way of enforcing the criminal part of the act.
Coming next to the objection that no overt act is laid,
the answer is that the Sherman Act punishes the conspiracies at which it is aimed on the common law footingthat is to say, it does not make the doing of any act other
than the act of conspiring a condition of liability. The
decisions as to the relations of a subsequent overt act to
crimes under Rev. Stat., ยง 5440, in Hyde v. United States,
225 U. S. 347, and Brown v. Elliott, 225 U. S. 392, have no
bearing upon a statute that does not contain the requirement found in that section. As we can see no reason for
reading into the Sherman Act more than we find there, we
think it unnecessary to offer arguments against doing so.
As to the suggestion that the matters alleged to have
been contemplated would not have constituted an offence
if they had been done, it is enough to say that some of
them conceivably might have been adequate to accomplish
the result, and that the intent alleged would convert
what on their face might be no more than ordinary acts
of competition or the small dishonesties of trade into a
conspiracy of wider scope, as has been explained more
than once. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375,
396; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 2 7 4 r 299. Of course this
fact calls for conscience and circumspection in prosecuting
officers, lest by the unfounded charge of' a wider purpose
than the acts necessarily import they convert what at
most would be small local offences into crimes under the
statutes of the United States. But we cannot say, as was
the case in United States v. Winslow, 227 U. S. 202, 218,
that no intent could convert the proposed conduct into
such a crime.
Finally, we Cannot pronounce the counts before us bad
for uncertainty. On demand of the defendants a bill of

NASH v. UNITE)
229 U. S.

STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

particulars-was furnished, and there is no reason to fear
that injustice was done in that respect.-There was no
need to allege or prove that the conspirators themselves
were all traders. Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274, 301.The first count, at least, was well enough.
After the' demurrer was overruled the defendants
pleaded not guilty and there was a trial and a verdict finding that Nash, Shotter, Myers, Moller and Boardman
were guilty and DeLoach not guilty, but saying nothing
as to the corporations. Numerous exceptions were taken,
but as writs of certiorari are not granted to bring up the
ordinary incidents of a criminal trial we shall say little
more than is necessary to dispose of the case. It was
argued with a good deal of force that the only evidence
of the alleged conspiracy was certain acts done on behalf
of the corporations; that the only ground for charging the
defendants who were fdund guilty was their relation to the
companies and their being presumably cognizant of tand
more or less responsible for the corporate acts; that if those
acts tended to prove a conspiracy they proved that tho
corporations more clearly than any one else were parties
to it, and therefore that a verdict that was silent as to
them ought to be set aside. We need not consider the
effect of Rev. Stat., ยง 1036, or whether on the evidence it
was possible to find the defendants guilty by reason of an
intent not shown to be shared by the corporations, as the
judgment must be reversed for another reason.
The reason is this. The court in its instructions told the
jury to "consider the evidence of the means which it is insisted by the prosecution tends to show a conspiracy"
and said: "You will consider carefully all the means which
the indictment charges" and "It is sufficient if it be shown
beyond a reasonable doubt that some of these means
charged were a part of the common scheme, design or
understanding or conspiracy by two or more of the defendants, and that these same means were of themselves

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

sufficient to cause an essential obstruction and restraint of
the free and untrammelled flow of trade and commerce
between the States and foreign nations." Thus while it
may be admitted that not, all the means alleged need be
proved, the charge invited the jury to consider all and
permitted a verdict upon any one of them. The fifth,
sixth and eighth statements of means to be employed were
withdrawn from the jury, but the jury's attention seems
not to have been called to the fact, that some of the charges
were abandoned, in the connection in which it was inportant. Furthermore one of the means alleged was the
false raising of grades and false gauging. Taken with
other evidence, if it was shown to be systematic it would
have had a tendency to show the scheme alleged. But
taken by itself, as the jury might have taken it under the
instructions, it showed only cheating and could not warrant a finding of the conspiracy with which the defendants were charged. It is unnecessary to. consider whether
tlere was any evidence sufficient to warrant a conviction
upon some of the other means alleged, for instance the.
first, as the absence of such evidence only would add another reason for holding the instructions wrong upon a
vital point.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissents.

