BARRY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

BARRY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE

No. 170.

COURT OF CLAIMS.

Argued March 6, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

Where a contractor is unable to make deliveries under a contract with
the Government for continuous deliveries of a specified article and
agrees with the properly authorized official to meet the emergency
by delivering goods of a different class to be paid for according to
actual value, the delivery is not one under the contract but is an
emergency purchase, nor is an acceptance by the Government an
acceptance under the contract; if the goods so delivered are not of
the value of the goods contracted for the Government may offset the
difference against future deliveries under the contract.
The failure, by reason of a strike, of contractors to deliver coal as
required by a contract for continuous delivery for the Philippine Division, creates a condition contemplated by the act of April 23, 1904,
providing for open market emergency purchases, and a purchase
of coal other than that contracted for so matte from the contractor
is an emergency purchase and not an outside purchase to meet contractor's default and accepted as fulfilment.
Where a contractor is indebted to the Government under one contract
the Government may offset without separate action an amount
owing by that contractor under another contract.
45 Ct. Cl. 532, affirmed.
THIS is a petition by appellants, partners under the
style bf Henry W. Peabody & Company, for a balance
alleged to be due on account of coal furnished the Quartermaster's Department, Philippine Division of the Army.
So much of the contract, which was in writing and duly
signed and approved, as required by § 3744 of Revised
Statutes, as is essential to a judgment, may be shortly
stated: The contractors agreed to sell and deliver at
Manila or certain other designated points, 70,000 tons of
coal known as "Wallsend" coal, of good quality "for
steaming purposes" at $5.15 per ton, deliveries not to
exceed 800 tons per month. The contractors were required

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

to file an official report of tests showing the quality of coal
intended to be delivered and a sufficient sample for test.
The sixth provision of the contract was in these words:
"That the said parties of the second part shall file with
the officer in charge of water transportation an official
report of tests, showing the quality of the coal intended
to be delivered and a sufficient sample for test, and if at
any time the coal offered under this contract shall fall
below the report so filed or the quality of the sample submitted, then such coal will be rejected."
By article 4 of the contract it was agreed, "that all
deliveries on this contract shall be subject to careful inspection, under instructions of the Chief Quartermaster,
Philippine Division, United States Army," etc. Payment
for coal delivered under the contract was to be made on
discharge of each cargo.
By article 12 it was agreed:
"That in case of failure of the said parties of the second
part to comply with the stipulations of this contract according to the true intent and meaning thereof then the
party of the first part shall have the power to purchase in
open market at the lowest price obtainable, or by special
contract, such quantity of coal of equal grade as may be
required, not to exceed the amount herein stated, the
difference in cost to be charged to and paid by the said
parties of the second part, or their sureties."
The II, III and IV findings of fact are in these words:
II.
"Deliveries were begun under this contract in August,
1904, and averaged about one delivery a month, and were
made at the times and places and to the amounts requested
by the officers of the Quartermaster's Department, who
did not require or wish the full amount specifed in the
contract to be delivered and who also did not give and
were not required to give the amount of notice specified

BARRY v. UNITED STATES.
229 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

in paragraph 2 of the contract for deliveries at ports outside of Manila Bay.
"In the month of January, 1905, a strike took place at
the Newcastle collieries in Australia, the source of supply
of the coal known as Wallsend, specified in the contract,
whereby the claimants became -temporarily unable to
supply that kind of coal. Being informed of. this fact by
cablegram dated January 21, 1905, and received at
Manila on the same day, the agent of the claimants conveyed immediate notice thereof to Col. John L. Clem,
Assistant Quartermaster General, United States Army,
chief quartermaster of the Division of the Philippines at
Manila, informing him at the same time that, as also
stated in the same cablegram, an equal quantity of good
Australian coal, known as mountain coal, could be supplied.
It was stated in the conversation with Colonel Clem that
this mountain coal was not fully equal to Wallsend, but
that it was believed to be a good coal., Colonel Clem
agreed to accept said mountain coal. It was then and
there stated between said agent of the claimants and
said Colonel Clem that the price to be paid for the 6,000
tons of mountain coal then required by the Government
should be $5.15 a ton, the same price as specified in the
contract for Wallsend coal, and agreed that the same
should be considered as a purchase outside of the contract
to meet existing conditions. The agent of the claimants
thereupon cabled to their office at Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia, ordering the 6,000 tons of mountain
coal, and the same was delivered by the claimants, accepted by the Government, and paid for on a voucher of
the disbursing quartermaster at Manila at the rate of
$5.15 a ton.
III.
"On the 3d of February, 1905, after the shipment, but
before the delivery of said mountain coal, the claimants
¥oi4. ccxxix-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

addressed a letter to Colonel Clem asking to be furnished
with an order for said coal ,as a purchase in accordance
with the agreement and conversation referred to in the
preceding finding. Colonel Clem thereupon informed the
claimants, through the officer in charge of water transportation, that a sample of the mountain coal would be
shipped to the Quartermaster-General for test, and in
case of its falling below the Wallsend coal, that difference
would be charged against the claimants under the contract. The claimants, by letter of February 18, 1905, protested against this qualification, insisting that the agreement orally made with Colonel Clem was to accept
mountain coal at the same price as that specified in the
contract for Wallsend coal without reserve as to quality.
The mountain coal was inferior to Wallsend coal, but its
market value at Manila at that time, owing in part to
said strike, was $5.15 a ton, the price orally agreed upon
and paid to the claimants.

IV.
A sample taken from the cargo of mountain coal above
mentioned was sent to the Quartermaster-General at
Washington, and on being subjected to test was found to
be of less value than the Wallsend coal, as provided by the
contract, the pro rata reduction in price of the cargo being
found to be $3,193.32, or of the value of $4.63 a ton instead
of $5.15.
"Thereafter claimant entered into a second contract
with the chief quartermaster of the Division of the Philippines to deliver 60,000 tons of West Wallsend coal for the
fiscal year beginning July 1, 1905. In the month of April,
1906, the quartermaster deducted from the price of a
cargo of coal delivered under said contract the sum of
$3,193.32 due the United States, the difference in value
between the Wallsend coal as provided by the contract
and the mountain coal delivered by the claimant."

BARRY v. UNITED STATES.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Frederick De C. Faust, with whom Mr. Assistant
Attorney General John Q. Thompson was on the brief, for
the United States.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

From the facts it is plain that the contractors could ,not
and did not deliver a cargo of "Wallsend" coal in January,
1905, as their contract obligated them to do. This temporary inability was due to a strike at the colliery. This
did not excuse them, since the contract did not so provide.
The cargo of mountain coal which was bought to meet the
immediate demand, though the same price was paid for
it, had a fuel value of $3,193.32 less than that of the same
quantity of Wallsend coal, as determined by tests and
comparisons with the sample of Wallsend coal, and the
question is whether this loss shall be borne by the Government or by the contractor.
Appellants say that if any cargo did not conform to the
standard, the only right of the Government was to reject
it. But it was not pretended that this cargo was Wallsend
coal, or equal to that coal in quality, nor was it accepted
as a delivery under the contract. That the Chief Quartermaster agreed to accept it and pay for it the price fixed
for Wallsend coal under the contract; and did so accept
and pay for it, constitutes the ground upon which the
claim of appellants must rest.
The situation was one brought about by the inability
of the contractors to carry out their contract. The coal
was needed for present necessities. The deficiency in
Wallsend coal had to be made up. There was thus presented one of the emergency conditions contemplated by

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

the law then in force, the act of April 23, 1904, 33 Stat.
268, 269 and the 548th and 549th paragraphs of the Army
Regulations of 1904, providing for "open market emergency purchases." Under this condition and under this
authority, the Chief Quartermaster agreed to accept a
cargo of confessedly inferior coal, and pay the market
price for that quality of coal in Manila at the time. That
this cargo was not to be accepted as a fulfillment of the
contract, and as a waiver of any difference in value between that and Wallsend coal, is demonstrated by the
finding that it was agreed "that the same should be considered as a purchase outside of the "contract to meet
existing conditions." It could not be regarded as an
"outside purchase" to meet conditions brought about by
the contractors' fault and at the same time be regarded as
accepted in fulfillment of the contract.
The finding that the Chief Quartermaster, after the
coal had been shipped, but before it arrived or was delivered, gave notice that he would send a sample of the
coal to the Quartermaster-General to be tested, and that
if it fell below the Wallsend coal, the difference would be
charged against the contractors, operated to put them
upon guard. They might have refused delivery. They
did not, although they protested and asserted views in
opposition to that of the officer. The payment made was
for that cargo as an "outside purchase," and not a payment under the contract for Wallsend coal. Neither is
the agreement to take that cargo, and the payment made
for it to be regarded as a waiver of any difference that
might exist between the quality and fuel value of the coal
so purchased and the coal which should have been supplied. That it does not constitute a waiver, results from
the agreement that it should bq, considered "an outside
purchase," and the express notice before delivery that the
contractors would be charged with that difference. When
that difference was ascertained, it was charged up and

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR CO.

53

Syllabus

229 U. S.

retained from money due under a later contract. The
liability might have been asserted by the Government in
an action; but it might, as it did, charge it up as a set-off
against its, own liability. It would be folly to require the
Government to pay under the one contract what it must
eventually recover for a breach of the other.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR WATER
POWER COMPANY.

CHANDLER-DUNBAR WATER POWER COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES.
ST. MARYS POWER COMPANY
STATES.

v. UNITED

BROWN, RECEIVER OF THE MICHIGAN LAKE

SUPERIOR

POWER

COMPANY,

v.

UNITED

STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

Nos. 783, 784, 785, 786. Argued April 28, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.
The technical title to the beds of navigable rivers of the United States
is either in the States in which the rivers are situated, or in the
riparian owners, depending upon the local law.
Upon the admission of Michigan as a State into the Union the bed of
the St. Marys River passed to the State; under the law of Michigan
a conveyance of land bordering upon a navigable river carries the
title to the middle thread.
The title of the riparian owner to the bed of a navigable. stream is a
qualifie'd one, and subordinate to the public right of navigation and.

