DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. PETTY.
229 U. S.

S9kllabus.

the contract of the principal has been altered so as to discharge the surety, is to be decided according to the csscntials, in whatever jurisdiction it may be raised. And so we
think the court correctly held that the arrangement that
was made between the McKimmies and Horton, of reserving the two lots from the conveyance in order to save the
expense of a reconveyance, was not a material change in
the contract; that it did not alter the position of either
Horton or his sureties, and therefore did not discharge
the latter. Read v. Bowman, 2 Wall. 591, 603; Reese v.
United States, 9 Wall. 13, 21; Cross v. Allen, 141 U. S.
528, 537.
Judgment affirmed.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. PETTY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 316.

Argued May 8, 1913.-Decided June 9, 1913.

Sureties on the official bond of a public officer are not, in the absence of
statutory provisions, responsible for his failure to account for moneys
received and held by him extra-officially and not specified in the
bond.
Moneys received by the Commissioner of the District of Columbia from
citizens for street improvements under the permit system were not
public moneys in any legal sense, but funds of private citizens held
extra-officially by the public officers.
Prior to the making of the order of June 13, 1888, establishing the
Permit Fund there was no law, rule or regulation making the Auditor
of the District of Columbia accountable for public moneys, nor is
there anything in that order or in the act of March 3, 1891, c. 2-16,
imposing responsibility on the Auditor for faults of the disbursing
clerk provided for therein or of tie pay clerk referred to in said order.
37 App. D. C. 156, affirmed.
IOL. ccx-..x----38

OCTOBER TERM; 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the liability of sureties on an
official bond and the responsibility of a public officer for
moneys other than public, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward H. Thomas for plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. J. Darlington for defendants in error, Church
and Deering.
Mr. W. C. Sullivan filed a brief for defendant in error
Petty.
Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, Mr. Frederick L. Siddons and
Mr. William E. Richardson filed a brief for defendant in
error Wilson.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the

court.
This action was founded upon the official bond of James
T. Petty, Auditor of the District of Columbia, given by
him and his sureties, bearing date May 1, 1888, and conditioned as follows:
"Whereas, the above bounden James T. Petty has been
appointed to the office of Auditor in and for the District
of Columbia; Now, therefore, the condition of said obligation is such that if the said James T. Petty shall faithfully
and efficiently perform all the duties of his said office, as
provided for by law, and the rules and regulations from
time to time duly prescribed for the government of the
civil service of said District; and shall well and truly pay
over, disburse, and account for all moneys that shall come
to his hands, as the law and orders governing said service
shall require, then said obligation to be void, otherwise to
remain in full force."

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. PETTY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court of the District sustained a general
demurrer to the original declaration, and to several successive amended ones. Upon the last occasion an appeal
was taken from the judgment of that court to the Court of
Appeals, resulting in an affirmance (37 App. D. C. 156),
and the present writ of error was then sued out.
The declaration in its final form sets forth the several
acts of Congress under which it was sought to charge the
defendant Petty, as Auditor, with the custody of or responsibility for certain moneys mentioned in the several
breaches assigned; and also sets forth certain rules and
regulations prescribed by the Commissioners of the District concerning the office of Auditor, that are said to impose such responsilility.
If the averments do not show a liability on the part of
the Auditor and his sureties, it is no fault of the pleader.
The fact is, as was frankly avowed at the Bar, that it was
not intended to charge that any of the moneys in question
came into the hands of Mr. Petty personally, or were by
him misappropriated; that in fact it was the disbursing
clerk in the Auditor's office who cashed certain checks
and embezzled the proceeds. The theory of the declaration is that Petty, as Auditor, is responsible for the moneys
represented by the checks, and bound to make good the
defalcation of the disbursing officer; and this because of
the character of 'the duties imposed upon the Auditor in
respect of certain funds known as the "Permit Fund," or
the "Deposit and Assessment Fund, whole-cost work,"
etc.
The history of the legislation under which the government of the District was organized and its affairs conducted, down to and during the period covered by this
action, is rehearsed in the opinion of the Court of Appeals,
and it would serve no useful purpose to repeat it here.
The history of the office of Auditor and the peculiar statutes under which it is sought to hold him responsible for

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

the custody and disbursement of moneys, and other duties
aside from those that belong to the office ex vi termini, are
rehearsed. Certain rules promulgated by an order of the
District Commissioners, under ,date June 13, 1888, are
likewise set forth. They have to do with the disposition
of moneys deposited with the Collector of Taxes of the
District by citizens of the District for (inter alia) "Permit
Work." Certain duties akin to the normal functions of
an Auditor are by these rules imposed upon that officer,
among which are the examination of vouchers and payrolls prepared by the superintendents of streets and of
sewers, respectively, for services rendered or material
furnished, payable from the Permit Fund; approval of
such pay-rolls and vouchers if found correct; and the
making of requisitions upon the Collector of Taxes for the
amount thereof. A separate section provides that "Once
a month, upon a day regularly set apart for the purpose,
the pay clerk of the Auditor's office shall take the rolls
thus prepared, with the money necessary to meet the same,
repair to the places where the work is being done, and,
after proper identifications, and receipt given, pay in cash
to each claimant the amount found to be due. He shall
give bond with approved security in the sum of five
thousand dollars for the faithful performance of the duties
required of him." By another section the Auditor is to
debit the Collector of Taxes with deposits on account of
Permit and License Funds, and credit him with requisitions honored by the Collector. By another section the
Auditor is to "Debit himself with the moneys received
from the Collector of Taxes upon requisition made as
provided in section 1, and credit himself with payments
upon vouchers duly certified and approved, as in sections
2 and 7." By ยง 7, after the work for which a deposit has
been made has been completed and paid for, the Auditor
is to state the account with the depositor, make requisition upon the Collector for any balance due the depositor,

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. PETTY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and repay the same upon presentation of the original
certificate of deposit.
The meaning of the terms "Permit Work" and "Permit Fund," is explained in the declaration as follows:
"That in the course of administration the Commissioners
found it expedient that all work done by the District of
Columbia as the result of cuts made in streets, avenues,
roads, and alleys in said District, be paid from a fund
known as the 'Deposit and Assessment Fund,' which was
whole-cost work, and thereupon the said Commissioners,
on February 6, 1897, ordered that for convenience in keeping the accounts in cases of repairs made by the District
of cuts in pavements and other work done by the District
which were paid for from private deposits, a general account be opened, styled 'Deposit and Assessment Fund,'
and that all material and labor for such work be charged
against said account and be paid by assessment against
the deposits made for such purposes."
Until the maling of the order of June 13, 1888, there was
no law, rule, or regulation making the Auditor of the District accountable for public moneys, and we agree with
the Court of Appeals that since there was no statute authorizing the District Commissioners to receive or expend
such permit work deposits, the order imposed no liability
upon the Auditor's bondsmen, because the moneys received from citizens for street improvements under the
permit system, were not public moneys in any legal sense,
but funds of private citizens held extra-officially by the
public officers.
The act of Congress of March 3, 1891 (26 Stat. 1062,
1064, c. 546), provided for a disbursing clerk, and authorized him to pay laborers and employ6s of the District
"with moneys advanced to him by the Commissioners in
their discretion, upon pay-rolls or other vouchers audited
and approved by the Auditor of the District of Columbia
and certified by the Commissioners as now required by

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

law." This clerk was made subordinate to the Commissioners, and they were held responsible for his acts and
defaults. The declaration avers that this disbursing clerk
was the same as the "pay clerk" referred to in the order
of June 13, 1888.
Be this as it may, we find nothing in the law, nor in
that order, to impose responsibility for the faults of the
disbursing clerk upon the Auditor.
Moreover, the breaches assigned in the declaration do
not appear to pertain to any of the duties imposed upon
the Auditor by any of the laws, or rules, or regulations to
which we are referred.
Four of the assigned breaches set up that certain checks,
some drawn by the disbursing officer and countersigned
by the Auditor, and others drawn by the Auditor, all payable to his order as Auditor and indorsed by him as such,
should have been deposited by him, "in accordance with
law and the rules governing the conduct of his office," with
the Treasurer of the United States; or should, "in accordance with law and the rules and regulations aforesaid,"
have been deposited in a certain bank as reimbursement
of the Deposit and Assessment Fund; or should have
been deposited in bank to the credit of Petty as Auditor
for the benefit of the whole-cost work, etc.; that in each
instance, the checks having been indorsed, were not so
deposited, but were cashed and the proceeds never paid or
accounted for to the plaintiff, etc. For reasons already
mentioned, the pleader has studiously refrained from
averring that these checks were cashed by Petty, or that
the proceeds thereof in any way came to his hands. The
legitimate inference is to the contrary, and that some
other official, for whose misconduct Petty was not by law
responsible, took the proceeds. For in none of the breaches
is the duty attributed to Petty covered by any of the laws,
rules, or regulations that are cited. The fifth breach
charged, is that Petty, as Auditor, failed to account for

DIST. OF " OLUMBIA v. PETTY.
229 U. S.

'599

Opinion of the Court.

moneys of the District of Columbia which came to his
hands, represented by certain specified checks, from funds
belonging to the whole-cost work, unlawfully drawn by
Petty as Auditor, the checks being payable to the order
of Petty "as disbursing agent, Rock Creek Park, D. C.";
that these checks and the proceeds thereof were unlawfully
used by Petty in his capacity as such disbursing agent,
etc., etc. Upon the argument no attempt was made to
support this breach, and as it appears to charge duties
that are not covered by any of the laws or rules cited, we
dismiss it without further mention.
Judgment affirmed.

