HENDERSONVILLE &c. CO. v. BLUE RIDGE RY.
243 U. S.

563

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

HENDERSONVILLE LIGHT & POWER COMPANY
ET AL. v. BLUE RIDGE INTERURBAN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 497. Argued April 10, 1917.-Decided April 23, 1917.
Where the answer in a state condemnation case attacked the taking
as a taking for private use in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment and a dissenting opinion in the state Supreme Court bore
evidence that the Federal Constitution was invoked against a construction of the state laws by which the taking was justified, Held,
that this court had jurisdiction to review.
Charter and state laws authorized a corporation to build and operate
an electric railroad, to condemn water power and employ it in generating electricity for use in running the road, to sell the surplus of
current so generated and, in connection with these objects, to construct buildings and factories, and operate machinery. In condemnation proceedings whereby the corporation took water rights
of a riparian owner, the state court found that the purpose was in
good faith to carry on the business of building and operating the
road, that the taking of all the water power was necessary for that
purpose, and that the purpose was public.
Held: (1) That in the absence of definite proof that a surplus would
result this court could not say that sale of surplus power was the
real object of the enterprise or anything more than a possible incident, necessary to prevent waste, of the railway use.
(2) Even if sale of surplus power were likely to occur, the taking, upon
the case as made, would be justified by Mt. Vernon-Woodberry Cotton
Duck Co. v. Alabama InterstatePower Co., 240 U. S. 30, 32.
171 N. Car. 314, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Michael Schenck, with whom Mr. C. P. Sanders, Mr.
J. C. Martin, Mr. Thomas S. Rollins and Mr. Gcorge H.
Wright were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error:

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

243 U. S.

The Laws of North Carolina (Laws 1907, c. 302; 1913,
c. 94; 1907, c. 74; Pell's Revisal, 1908, ยง 1573) as construed
by the Supreme Court of the State authorize the defendant in error to take private property for a private use in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. This defense
was set up in the answer and is necessarily involved in the
decision of the Supreme Court of the State.
Necessity to condemn the property for the operation of
the railroad was not alleged. Proof without allegation is
ineffective. McKee v. Lineberger, 69 N. Car. 217, 239;
Abernathy v. Seagle, 98 N. Car. 553, 556. Condemnation
is not allowed if not necessary. Curtis on the Laws of
Electricity, ยง81; State v. White River Power Co., 39 Washington, 648. The testimony refutes the idea that so much
water power was needed for the railroad; the real object
shown is to develop a large water power, to supply electric
current for the private uses of the mills and properties
owned by the stockholders of the defendant in error,
and in which they are interested. Condemnation is not
sought solely for public purposes. There is neither allegation, proof nor finding that the electric current is to be
sold, generally, for public uses, and the case therefore does
not come, as we insist, under the ruling of this court in the
case of Mt. Vernon-Woodberry Cotton Co. v. Alabama Power
Co., 240 U. S. 30. Where the charter of a corporation
authorizes it to exercise the power of eminent domain for
both public and private purposes, the power of eminent
domain cannot be exercised for the private purpose, but
it may be exercised for the public purpose. Kaukauna Co.
v. Green Bay &c. Canal Company, 142 U. S. 254; Walker
v. Shasta Power Co., 160 Fed. Rep. 856.
Where both private purposes and public uses are contemplated in the articles of incorporation, the question
whether the right to condemn is to be denied or allowed
is not tested solely by the objects and purposes set forth
in the articles of incorporation, but may be governed by

HENDERSONVILLE &c. CO. v. BLUE RIDGERY.
243 U. S.

565

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

evidence aliunde showing the actual purpose in view.
Lake Koen Nay. R. & I. Co. v. Klein, 63 Kansas, 484;
Cole v. County Commissioners, 78 Maine, 532; Brown v.
Gerald, 100 Maine, 351; Fallsberg Power & Mfg. Co. v.
Alexander, 101 Virginia, 98; Berien Springs Water Power
Co. v. Berien Circuit Judge, 133 Michigan, 48; Attorney
Generalv. Eauclaire,37 Wisconsin, 400; State ex rel. Harris
v. Superior Court, 42 Washington, 660; Matter of Niagara
Falls and Whirlpool Ry. Co., 108 N. Y. 375.
If a private use is combined with a public one in such a
way that the two cannot or are not sought to be separated,
then unquestionably the right of eminent domain could
not be invoked to aid in the enterprise [citing many cases].
If it appear that the real purpose of the corporation is to
acquire lands and streams needful, and to be used in
carrying out a private enterprise, though a public use may
be served, then the taking cannot be permitted. Thorn
v. Georgia Mfg. & Public Service Co., 128 Georgia, 187;
Lorenz v. Jacob, 63 California, 73; In re Eureka Basin
Warehouse & Mfg. Co., 96 N. Y. 42; Lake Koen Nay. R. &
I. Co. v. Klein, 63 Kansas, 484.
The judgment of the state court on the question of
public use should not be accepted in this case. We insist
that the power to condemn cannot be exercised for the
private purposes mentioned in the certificate of incorporation of the defendant in error, and in the petition for condemnation in this case, and that there is no separation of
such purposes in this case. State v. White River Power
Co., 39 Washington, 648; Varner v. Martin, 21 W. Va.
548; Board of Health v. Van Hoesen, 87 Michigan, 533;
Gilmer v. Lime Point, 18 California, 229.
As in State v. White River Power Co., supra, so here,
there is nothing to show that there is any present demand
for 50,000 horse-power; the defendant in error has acquired no franchise to operate a street railway in any town;
not one inch of the proposed line of railway has been sur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

243 U. S.

veyed, staked out or located; it is under no obligation to
furnish electricity to any person, or for any purpose, and
for all that appears, it may take the property of the plaintiffs in error, generate electricity and do absolutely as it
pleases with the power thus created. It is obvious that
what is a public use frequently and largely depends upon
the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular
subject-matter in regard to which the character of the use
is questioned. This court cannot be bound by the decisions of state courts on what constitutes public use. Fallbrook IrrigationDistrict v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 159.
Mr. CharlesW. Tillett, with whom Mr. HoraceL. Bomar,
Mr. William A. Smith, Mr. James E. Shipman and Mr.
Thomas C. Guthrie were on the briefs, for defendant in
error:
The fact that the Chief Justice certifies that federal
questions are involved will not control, when the opinion
of the court shows that no such question was involved.
Biddle v. Bellingham Co., 163 U. S. 63.
Whether the water right was available to the respondent
for water power, and whether it was subject to condemnation, are purely questions of state law and not reviewable
here. Rundle v. Delaware & Raritan Canal Co., 14 How.
79; St. Louis v. Rutz, 138 U. S. 226; St. Anthony Falls
Waterpower Co. v. Water Commissioners, 168 U. S.
349.
It was distinctly found, without objection or exception,
that the Blue Ridge Company proposed to carry on a
business of a public nature, and by turning to the original
petition it will be found that this was the construction
and operation of an interurban railway, and also the selling
of electricity. It is difficult to see how it could be more
clearly or conclusively shown that the purposes for which
the power of eminent domain was invoked were public
purposes and not private.

HENDERSONVILLE &c. CO. v. BLUE RIDGE RY.
243 U. S.

567

Argument for Defendant in Error.

In North Carolina it is expressly held that a corporation
may condemn for the public purposes of its charter, and
if it applies the property to private uses the remedy is by
quo warranto. Wadsworth Land Co. v. Piedmont Traction
Co., 162 N. Car. 314. See also Walker v. Shasta Power Co.,
160 Fed. Rep. 856; Lake Koen Nay. R. & I. Co. v. Klein,
63 Kansas, 484; Cole v. County Commissioners, 78 Maine,
532; Brown v. Gerald, 100 Maine, 351.
State ex Tel. Harris v. Superior Court, 42 Washington,
660, in holding that sale of electricity is not a public business is overruled by Mt. Vernon-Woodberry Cotton Duck
Co. v. Alabama Power Co., 240 U. S. 30.
In not a single instance has this court ever overruled or
reversed the decision of a state court where any such
court has held that a certain purpose was a public purpose, in the carrying out of which a corporation had the
right to exercise the power of eminent domain. Hairston v. Danville & Western R. R. Co., 208 U. S. 598. For
a clear statement of the elements of public use see Talbot
v. Hudson, 16 Gray, 417.
The regulation of the use of non-navigable streams is for
the States. United States v. Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation
Co., 174 U. S. 690; Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361; Fallbrook Irrigation District v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 159;
Head v. Amoskeag Co., 113 U. S. 9.
Where this stream flows the waters can only be used for
power purposes, and to deny the right would block the
development of that part of the State. The local conditions are to be considered in passing on the reasonableness and validity of the law allowing condemnation.
Strickley v. Highland Boy Gold Mining Co., 200 U. S. 527;
Wurts v. Hoagland, 114 U. S. 229; O'Neill v. Learner, 239
U.S. 244.
The mere fact that the use may be in part private does
not prevent condemnation. Hairston v. Danville &
Western R. R. Co., supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a special proceeding to condemn the water rights
incident to land belonging to the plaintiffs in error upon a
bow of Green River. It has resulted in a judgment of
condemnation subject to the payment of $10,000. The
petitioner, the defendant in error, owns land on the side
of the stream opposite to that of the plaintiffs in error,
the respondents, and on both sides of the stream above and
below that land. It proposes to cut off the bow by a dam
above, and a steel flume that reenters the river below,
that land, all upon its own ground. The respondents in
their answer set, up that the condemnation in this manner
and for the purpose alleged would be the taking of private
property without due process of law in :violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment, and we assume that the record
discloses a technical right to come to this court. Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 193 U. S. 53,
62. American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S.
89, 91. The decision of the Supreme Court in sustaining
the condemnation discusses only matters of state law,
but the Chief Justice, dissenting, intimated that the taking
infringed the Constitution of the United States. 171
N. Car. 314.
The defendant in error, the Blue Ridge Interurban Railway Company, seems to have been incorporated with
power to build and operate a street and interurban railway from Hendersonville through Saluda to a point on
Green River, and to extend its lines to any other points
not exceeding fifty miles from Saluda; also with power to
maintain a water power plant on Green River for the purpose of generating electricity to be used in 'operating the
railway; and with all other powers granted by the laws of
the State to corporations of that character, including all
rights of condemnation and the right to sell and dispose
of the surplus electric power generated at its plant. It

HENDERSONVILLE &c. CO. v. BLUE RIDGE RY. 569
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

has also a somewhat general authority to construct buildings and factories, operate machinery, &c., but limited,
as we understand it, to acts expedient for the proper
prosecution of the objects for which the corporation was
created.
This taking, according to the findings before us, was
with intent in good faith to carry on the public business
authorized by the charter-that is to build and operate
a street and interurban railway between points named.
It is found further that it was necessary to generate electric
power on Green River in order to operate the railway;
that the present proceeding was for a public use, and that
in order fully to develop the Blue Ridge Company's
water power on Green River for the above-mentioned purposes, it was necessary to condemn the rights in question.
Subject to provisos that were held to have been satisfied
and that are not in question here, a statute of 1907 as
amended in 1913 authorized street and interurban railways
situated as the petitioner was to condemn water power.
The objection that is urged against this statute and the
charter as applied in the present case is that taking, the
whole water power is unnecessary for the purposes of
the railway, that the plan is a covert device for selling
the greater part of the power to mills, that this last is a private use, and that the two objects being so intermingled
the taking must fall.
We are asked to!go behind the finding that the taking
was for a public use, on the ground that the charter authorizes the sale of surplus power, that the contemplated
works will produce fifty thousand horse-power and that
this, according to the evidence, is much more than will
be needed for the railway. But the surplus is a matt er
of estimate and no reason is shown for our not accepting
the findings below. We are in no way warranted in assuming that the sale of surplus power, if there is any, is
the real object of the enterprise, or anything more than a

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

possible incident, necessary to prevent waste, of the primary public use. Furthermore if there are likely to be
such sales, nothing appears sufficient to take the case out
of the scope of a recent decision of this court. Mt. VernonWoodberry Cotton Duck Co. v. Alabama InterstatePower Co.,
240 U. S. 30, 32.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. DAVIS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
No. 621.

Submitted April 11, 1917.-Decided April 23, 1917.

When the trial court besides holding the indictment defective for not
following the language of the statute bases its decision also upon the
ground that the statute does not apply to the facts alleged the decision as to the latter grpund is reviewable under the Criminal Appeals
Act.
A deputy clerk of the District Court of Hawaii who converts to his
own use fees deposited by litigants to secure the payment of costs
*in bankruptcy and other cases is punishable under'ยง 97 of the Penal
Code.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Warren for the United
States.
No brief filed for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an indictment of a deputy clerk of the District
Court of Hawaii for converting to his own use moneys of

