OCTO3ER TMRM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

petition for removal, this was decisive of the nature of
the contro ersy, there being no showing that the defendants were fraudulently joined for the purpose of preventing a removal. Alabama Great Southern Ry. Co. v. Thompson, 200 U. S. 206, 213, et seq.; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co.
v. Cockrell, 232 U. S. 146, 152.
Judgment affirmed.

BUNTING v. STATE OF OREGON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OREGON.
No. 38. Argued April 18, 1916; restored to docket for reargument June 12,
1916; reargued January 19, 1917.-Decided April 9, 1917.
Section 2 of the General Laws of Oregon, 1913, c. 102, p. 169, providing
that "No person shall he employed in any mill, factory or manufacturing establishment in this State more than ten hours in any
one day, except watchmen and employees when engaged in making
necessary repairs, or in case of emergency, where life or property is
in imminent danger.; provided, .however, employees may work overtime not to exceed three hours in any one day, conditioned that
payment be made for said overtime at the rate of time and one-half
of the regular wage," is construed as in purpose an hours of service
law and as such is upheld as a valid health regulation.
Whether the law could be upheld as a regulation of wages is not considered or decided.
While mere legislative declaration can not give character to a law or
turn illegal into legal operation, the court will not ascribe to the legislature an intent to disguise an illegal purpose or the improvidence
of effecting one thing while intending another when, as in this case,
the purpose as declared in the act (§ 1) and confirmed by the state
court is legal and the provisions of the act can be accommodated to
it.
The provision for overtime and extra pay is in nature a penalty to
deter from excess of the ten-hour limit.
In sustaining a state law passed in the exercise of an admitted power

BUNTING v. OREGON.
243 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of government the court need not be sure of the precise reasons for
means adopted by the legislature, nor may it pass upon their adequacy or wisdom.
Upon the question whether a ten-hour law is necessary or useful for
the preservation of the health of employees in "mills, factories, and
manufacturing establishments" the court may accept the judgment
of the state legislature and state supreme court, when the record
contains no facts to support the contrary contention.
The Oregon law, supra, in limiting the hours of employees in "mills,
factories, and manufacturing establishments" does not unduly
discriminate against their employers as compared with other employers not included in the classification.
71 Oregon, 259, affirmed.

THE, case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. Lair Thompson, with whom Mr. C. W. Fulton
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error:
When dealing with subjects which do not affect the
public generally, legislation restricting private activities
and the enjoyment of private property must be plainly
necessary before-it can be upheld under the police power.
Hannibal& St. Joseph Ry. Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465. It
belongs to the judiciary to determine what are the proper
subjects for the exercise of the police power and when the
legislative discretion is reasonably employed. Ruhstrat
v. People, 185 Illinois, 133; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.
366; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 46. It is not sufficient
that the general purpose of the act shall be within the
recognized limits of police power, but the means employed
to accomplish that purpose must not invade private
rights secured by the Federal Constitution. Connelly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry.
Co. v. Vosburg, 238 U. S. 56. Police regulations have not
generally been extended to the restriction of the right of
contract between employer and employee. Allgeyer v.
Louisiana, 165 U. S. 579; Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

243 U. 9.

Laws regulating hours of employment have been seldom
upheld and only in respect of employment directly affecting the welfare, health or safety of the public, or to which
the State or one of its subdivisions is a party, or involving
unusual danger to the health of the employee. People v.
Erie R. R. Company, 198 N. Y. 369; Atkins v. Kansas,
191 U. S. 207; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366; State v.
Muller, 208 U. S. 412.
Interference with private labor contracts not affecting
the public can only be sustained when reasonably necessary to preserve health, and not unless the court can say
that the place or nature of employment is of such unusual
danger to health as to demand legislative interference.
Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 46; State v. Muller, supra.
If legislative interference with property right is to be
sanctioned in every case in which the court cannot say that
beyond reasonable doubt such interference will not tend
to benefit or protect the health or welfare of a laborer,
then the Fourteenth Amendment means nothing in matters of this kind. It is only when the court can say that
such regulation is reasonably necessary that the Fourteenth Amendment ceases to inhibit the regulation. Considering those matters of common knowledge, which the
court should do (Jacobsonv. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11),
it may seem hardly conceivable that a law with the broad
scope of the Oregon act can be held to be necessary for
the preservation of the health of employees in mills,
factories and manufacturing establishments. The occupations affected are the ordinary employments of life,
and involve only the ordinary dangers to health that
accompany manual labor. It can hardly be contended
that the man who wheels sacked flour from the mill to the
warehouse, or who keeps the books, or deals with the
farmer, receiving the grain, works in a position of unusual
danger, or that his health will be impaired if he is permitted to work the number of hours his own judgment

BUNTING v. OREGON.
243 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

dictates, or that he is not of sufficient intelligence to sell
his labor without the paternal guidance of a legislative

majority.
The law upon its face refutes the contention that it is a
health law, or that the recitals of the act in § 1 thereof
were deemed true by the legislature. The legislative declaration of necessity, even if the act followed such declaration, is not binding upon this court. Coppage v. Kansas,
236 U. S. 1; Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Powell v.
Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678; Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall.
497. The law is not a ten-hour law; it is a thirteen-hour
law designed solely for the purpose of compelling the
employer of labor in mills, factories and manufacturing
establishments to pay more for labor than the actual
market value thereof. It is based upon economic grounds
exclusively. The provision for overtime at time and onehalf the regular wage robs .the law of any argument that
might be made to bring it within those grounds that justify
an exercise of the police power. Freund, Police Power,
§§ 316, 318.
The right of the legislature to regulate wages is denied
in Street v. Varney Electrical Supply Co., 160 Indiana,
338, and People v. Coler, 166 N. Y. 1. These decisions
are not affected by Atkin v. Kansas, 191 U. S. 207, and
Heim v. McCall, 239 U. S. 175, which relate to hours of
labor in public employments. See also Low v. Rees Printin# Co., 41 Nebraska, 127, and Wheeling Bridge & Terminal
Ry.Co. v. Gilmore, 8 Ohio Cir. Ct. Rep. 858.
Insufficiency of wage does not justify legislative regulation. The wage has-no bearing upon health. Society
may,not force the employer to pay wages sufficient to
support the employee upon the scale of his desire. But
this law goes further, fixing the amount arbitrarily. In
this case the employee was receiving a regular wage of 40
cents per hour, on its face a living wage, and there was no
basis for an arbitrary demand that he be paid 60 cents per

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

243 U. S.

hour for three hours of his time. The effect is to take
money from the employer and give it to the laborer
without due process or value in return. Although the
terms of employment are more important than the selection of the employee, even the right to select cannot be
invaded by state dictation. Adair v. United States, 208
U. S. 161; Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549.
The Oregon act discriminates against plaintiff in error,
denying the equal protection of the laws. Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe. Ry. Co. v. Vosburg, 238 U. S. 56;
Cooley Const. Lim., 7th ed., p. 560.
The provision for extra wages does not aid in the enforcement of the law as an hours-of-service law. The commingling of unlawful methods of execution with a lawful purpose may make an act unconstitutional as effectively as may
an unlawful purpose. Coppagev. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1. The
fixing and execution .of the overtime pay is an unconstitutional means. Furthermore, it has no reasonable tendency
to enforce the declared purpose (distinguishing Commonwealth v. Riley, 210 Massachusetts, 394; s. c., 232 U. S.
671). The penalty theory is untenable. It involves penalizing an employer for doing the very thing the law authorizes, since the act itself permits employment beyond the ten
hours. The purpose and scope are fixed by § 2 where the
time and overtime provisions appear together. The penalty for violating that section is provided by § 3, is complete in itself, and uniform for every violation of the act.
Penal laws should be strictly construed; a court has no
province to superadd a penalty by mere implication.
Black on Interpretation of Laws, 2d ed., pp. 455, 471.
The act being unconstitutional in a vital part must fail
as a whole. Low v. Rees Printing Co., 41 Nebraska, 127.
Mr.Felix Frankfurter,with whom Mr. George M. Brown,
Attorney General of the State of Oregon, and Mr. J. 0.

BUNTING v. OREGON.
243 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Bailey, Assistant Attorney General of the State of Oregon,
were on the briefs, for defendant in error:
The law is an hours law, not a wage law; the provision
for overtime work and extra pay being merely to allow
a limited and reasonable flexibility in time of unusual
business pressure. The conditions in Oregon, which must
be considered in passing on the law, show that this must be
so since over 93 per cent. of employers find it unprofitable
to employ men beyond ten hours at normal pay. Such
provisions for higher rates for overtime are common in the
regulation of hours, as is shown by trade agreements in
this country and in England. They are necessary to
preserve the regulation.
The issue concerning the validity of the law presents
the familiar case of application and delimitation of accepted principles. The liberty of the Fourteenth Amendment is set up against the police power of a State. The
boundaries must be drawn in each specific case, not by
resort to theory and assumption, but in the light of experience, granting to the legislature the function of discerning, detecting and remedying the evils which may be
obstacles to the "greater public welfare" (Rast v. Van
Deman. & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342) and upholding its
judgment if in the light of experience the judgment seems
not arbitrary or wanton. Experience in England most
strikingly dispelled the old theoretical opposition to limitation of the hours of labor and the preference for unfettered individual competition as an economic principle.
The matter has now come to be looked on no longer as a
mere contest between capital and labor, but as a concern
of the State as an organic whole. The question, therefore,
is not whether the State can regulate hours of labor in
modern industry, but what evils are manifest, and what
tendencies are disclosed, that present a reasonable field
for legislative repression; what remedies are available that
present a reasonable field for legislative encouragement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

243 U. S.

This field of reasonable action is the State's police power.
See Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366. In Lochner v. New
York, 198 U. S. 45, the state authority in the specific
instance was denied because no reasonable relation was
discernible to the majority between a ten hour law for
bakers and the public welfare. This judgment was based
upon a view of the nature of the baker's employment
beyond ten hours as known "to the common understanding" Id. 59. See Hours of Labor and Realism in Constitutional Law, 29 Harv. L, Rev. 353. It is now clear
that "common understanding" is a treacherous criterion
both as to the assumptions on which such understanding
is based, and as to the evil consequences, if they are allowed to govern. Pound's Liberty of Contract, 18 Yale
L. J. 454, 480, note 123; 2 Ely's Property and Contract,
662, 674-5. The subject is one for scientific scrutiny
and critique, for authoritative interpretation of accredited
facts. To this end science has been devoted all over
the world. Particularly in the last decade science has been
giving us the basis for judgment by experience to which,
when furnished, judgment by speculation must yield.
This is precisely what Holden v. Hardy, supra, looked
forward to.
The insight expressed in that case has now been amply
justified by experience. What in 1898 presented a specific,
and apparently, exceptional instance-the poison'ing of
the human system through long hours of labor in mines,
and the implications of this evil to the general welfareis now disclosed to be of far wider and deeper application.
It is now demonstrable that the considerations that were
patent as to miners in 1898 are to-day operative, to a
greater or less degree, throughout the industrial system.
It is to this body of experience that the court's attention is invited. It is a mass of data that, partly, was not
presented in cases like Lochner v. New York, supra, but
mostly could not have been before the court, because it

BUNING v. OREGON.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was not heretofore in existence. Inasmuch as the application of the contending principles must vary with the
facts to which they are sought to be applied, of course
new facts are the indispensable basis to the determination
of the validity of specific new legislation. People v.
Schweinler Press, 214 N. Y. 395, 412.
The knowledge obtained by the increasing study of industrial conditions is back of the State's policy, as expressed by the legislature, and sustained by the courts of
Oregon. These are facts of common knowledge of which
this court will take judicial notice. These facts, we submit, conclusively establish that Oregon was exercising a
reasonable judgment as to the public welfare in passing
its ten-hour law; and so exercising a reasonable judgment
it acted within its rightful and constitutional sphere. The
place at which it chose to draw the line was peculiarly
for the discretion of its legislature. It is sufficient for the
present that the line as now drawn-ten hours a day-is
not an unreasonable line. Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373,
382; People v. Klinck Packing Co., 214 N. Y. 121, 128;
State v. Bunting, 71 Oregon, 259, 273.
[In support of the argument counsel's brief presented an
extensive systematic review of facts and statistics dealing
with the effects of overtime upon the physical and moral
health of the worker and so upon the vitality, efficiency
and prosperity of the nation, with additional references to
experiences and results abroad since the outbreak of the
European War. The good effects following regulation
and the extent of regulation as shown in American and
foreign legislation were also indicated.]
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Indictment charging a violation of a statute of the
State of Oregon, § 2 of which provides as follows:
"No person shall be employed in any mill, factory or

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

manufacturing establishment in this State more than ten
hours in any one day, except watchmen and employees
when engaged in making necessary repairs, or in case of
emergency, where life or property is in imminent danger;
provided, however, employees may work overtime not to
exceed three hours in any one day, conditioned that payment be made for said overtime at the rate of time and
one-half of the regular wage."
A violation of the act is made a misdemeanor, and in
pursuance of this provision the indictment was found. It
charges a violation of the act by plaintiff in error, Bunting,
by employing and causing to work in a flour mill belonging
to the Lakeview Flouring Mills, a corporation, one Hammersly for thirteen hours in one day, Hammersly not being
within the excepted conditions, and not being paid the
rate prescribed for overtime.
A demurrer was filed to the indictment, alleging against
its sufficiency that the law upon which it was based is
invalid because it violates the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of Oregon.
The demurrer was overruled; and the defendant, after
arraignment, plea of not guilty and trial, was found
guilty. A motion in arrest of judgment was denied and
he was fined $50. The judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State. The Chief Justice of the
court then allowed this writ of error.
The consonance of the Oregon law with the Fourteenth
Amendment is the question in the case, and this depends
upon whether it is a proper exercise of the police power of
the State, as the Supreme Court of the State decided that
it is.
That the police power extends to health regulations is
not denied, but it is denied that the law has such purpose
or justification. It is contended that it is a wage law, not a
health regulation, and takes the property of plaintiff in

BUNTING v. OREGON.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

error without due process. The contention presents two
questions: (1) Is the law a wage law, or an hours of service
law? And (2) if the latter, has it equality of operation?
Section 1 of the law expresses the policy that impelled
its enactment to be the interest of the State in the physical
well-being of its citizens and that it is injurious to their
health for.them to work "in any mill, factory or manufacturing establishment" more than ten hours in any one
day; and § 2, as we have seen, forbids their employment in
those places for a longer time. If, therefore, we take the
law at its word there can be no doubt of its purpose, and
the Supreme Court of the State has added the confirmation of its decision, by declaring that "the aim of the
statute is to fix the maximum hours of service in certain.
industries. The act makes no attempt to fix the standard
of wages. No maximum or minimum wage is named.
That is left wholly to the contracting parties."
. It is, however, urged that we are not bound by the
declaration of the law or the decision of the court. In
other words, and to use counsel's language, "the legislative
declaration of necessity, even if the act followed such
declaration, is not binding upon this court. Coppage v.
Kansas, 236 U. S. 1." Of course, mere declaration cannot
give character to a law nor turn illegal into legal operation,
and when such attempt is palpable this court necessarily
has the power of review.
But does either the declaration or the decision reach
such extreme? Plaintiff in error, in contending for this
and to establish it, makes paramount the provision for
overtime; in other words, makes a limitation of the act
the extent of the act-indeed, asserts that it gives, besides, character to the act, illegal character.
To assent to this is to ascribe to the legislation such
improvidence. of expression as to intend one thing and
effect another, or artfulness of expression to disguise illegal
purpose. We are reluctant to do either and we think all

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

the provisions of the law can be accommodated without
doing either.
First, as to plaintiff in error's attack upon the law. He
says: "The law is not a ten-hour law; it is a thirteen-hour
law designed solely for the purpose of compelling the
employer of labor in mills, factories and manufacturing
establishments to pay more for labor than the actual
market value thereof." And further: "It is a ten-hour
law for the purpose of taking the employer's property
from him and giving it to the employ6; it is a thirteen-hour
law for the purpose of protecting the health of the employ6." To this plaintiff in error adds that he was convicted, not for working an employee during a busy season
for more than ten hours, but for not paying him more
than the market value of his services.
The elements in this contention it is difficult to resolve
or estimate. The charge of pretense against the legislation we, as we have already said, cannot assent to. The
assumption that plaintiff in error was convicted for not
paying more in a busy season than the market value of
the services rendered him or that under the law he will
have to do so, he gives us no evidence to support. If there
was or should be an increase of demand for his products,
there might have been or may be an increase of profits.
However, these are circumstances that cannot be measured, and we prefer to consider with more exactness the
overtime provision.
There is a certain verbal plausibility in the contention
that it was intended to permit 13 hours' work if there be
15Y hours' pay, but the plausibility disappears upon
reflection. The provision for overtime is permissive, in
the same sense that any penalty may be said to be permissive. Its purpose is to deter by its burden and its
adequacy for this, was a matter of legislative judgment
under the particular circumstances. It may not achieve
its end, but its insufficiency cannot change its character

BUNTING v. OREGON.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from penalty to permission. Besides, it is to be borne in
mind that the legislature was dealing with a matter in
which many elements were to be considered. It might
not have been possible, it might not have been wise, to
make a rigid prohibition. We can easily realize that the
legislature deemed it sufficient for its policy to give to the
law an adaptation to occasions different from special cases
of emergency for which it provided, occasions not of such
imperative necessity, and yet which should have some
accommodation-abuses prevented by the requirement of
higher wages. Or even a broader contention might be
made that the legislature considered it a proper policy to
meet the conditions long existent by a tentative restraint
of conduct rather than by an absolute restraint, and
achieve its purpose through the interest of those affected
rather than by the positive fiat of the law.
We cannot know all of the conditions that impelled the
law or its particular form. The Supreme Court, nearer to
them, describes the law as follows: "It is clear that the
intent of the law is to make 10 hours a regular day's labor
in the occupations to which reference is made. Apparently
the provisions for permitting labor for the overtime on
express conditions were made in order to facilitate the
enforcement of the law, and in the nature of a mild penalty
for employing one not more than three hours overtime.
It might be regarded as more difficult to detect violations
of the law by an employment for a shorter time than for a
longer time. This penalty also goes to the employee in
case the employer avails himself of the overtime clause."
But we need not cast about for reasons for the legislative
judgment. We are not required to be sure of the precise
reasons for its exercise or be convinced of the wisdom of its
exercise. Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S.
342, 365. It is enough for our decision if the legislation under review was passed in the exercise of an admitted
power of government; and that it is not as complete as

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

it might be, not as rigid in its prohibitions as it might be,
gives perhaps evasion too much play, is lighter in its
penalties than it might be, is no impeachment of its
legality. This may be a blemish, giving opportunity for
criticism and difference in characterization, but the constitutional validity of legislation cannot be determined by
the degree of exactness of its provisions or remedies. New
policies are usually tentative in their beginnings, advance
in firmness as .they advance in acceptance. They do not
at a particular moment of time spring full-perfect in extent or means from the legislative brain. Time may be
necessary to fashion them to precedent customs and conditions and as they justify themselves or otherwise they pass
from militancy to triumph or from question to repeal.
But passing general considerations and coming back to
our immediate concern, which is the validity of the particular exertion of power in the Oregon law, our judgment
of it is that it does not transcend constitutional limits.
This case is submitted by plaintiff in error upon the
contention that the law is a wage law not an hours of
service law, and he rests his case on that contention. To
that contention we address our decision and do not discuss
or consider the broader contentions of counsel for the
State that would justify the law even as a regulation of
wages.
There is a contention made that the law, even regarded
as regulating hours of service, is not either necessary or
useful "for preservation of the health of employ6s in
mills, factories and manufacturing establishments." The
record contains no facts to support the contention, and
against it is the judgment of the legislature and the
Supreme Court, which said: "In view of the well-known
fact that the custom in our industries does not sanction a.
longer service than 10 hours per day, it cannot be held, as a
matter of law, that the legislative requirement is unreasonable or arbitrary as to hours of labor. Statistics

BUNTING v. OREGON.
243 U. S.

. 439

Dissent.

show that the average daily working time among workingmen in different countries is, in Australia, 8 hours; in
Great Britain, 9; in the United States, 9%; in Denmark,
9%; in Norway, 10; Sweden, France, and Switzerland,
10O2 ; Germany, 101%; Belgium, Italy, and Austria, 11;
and in Russia, 12 hours."!
The next contention of plaintiff in error is that the law
discriminates against mills, factories and manufacturing
establishments in that it requires that a manufacturer,
without reason other than the fiat of 'the legislature, shall
pay for a commodity, meaning labor, one and one-half.
times the market value thereof while other people purchasing labor in like manner in the open market are not
subjected to the same burden. But the basis of the contention is that which we have already disposed of, that is,
that the law regulates wages, not hours of service. Regarding it as the'latter, there is a basis for the classification.
Further discussion we deem unnecessary.
Judgment affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and

MR. JUSTICE McRhyNoLDs, dissent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS took no part in the consideration and decision of the case.

