OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

243 U. S.

As pointed out by the Government the court below seems
to have overlooked the fact that except in the sixth count
the defendant is alleged to have been an assistant clerk,
not the clerk. Whether it belonged to the United Stateg
or to the clerk the money was not his and the case is within
the words just quoted from the act. We confine our decision to the point raised by the assignment of error;
upon that the decision was wrong.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

dissents for the reasons given

by Judge Morrow.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. LORICK.
ERROR, TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 762.

Argued April 10, 1917.-Decided April 23, 1917.

In an action in a state court under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, it was in evidence that the employee, in the line of his duty,
was injured in an effort to raise a coupler without the aid of a jack;
that a jack was the proper appliance for such work; that he had requested one of his superior repeatedly on former like occasions and
that it had been promised him a few weeks before the accident. The
court below having affirmed the action of the trial court in refusing
to direct a* verdict for defendant upon the grounds of assumption
of risk and absence of negligence, Held; that there was no clear and
palpable error such as would justify this court in disturbing the
verdict for the plaintiff. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Whitacre,
242 U. S. 169, 171.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. B. S. Lyles for plaintiff in error.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. LORICK.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Frank G. Tompkins, with whom Mr. Geo. Bell
Timmermai was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BR.ANEms delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Federal Safety Appliance Acts (as supplemented
by Act of April 14, 1910, c. 160, 36 Stat. 298, 299) prohibit
a carrier engaged in interstate commerce from hauling
a car with a defective coupler, if it can be repaired at the
place where the defect is discovered. United States v.
Erie R. R. Co., 237 U. S. 402; 409. The Seaboard Air
Line Railway received such a car at one of its yards. Lorick, the local car inspector and repairer, who discovered
the defect, undertook to make the repairs, as was in the
line of his duty' To do so it was necessary to raise the
coupler; and for this a jack was the appropriate appliance.
None having been furnished him, he sat down under the
coupler and raised it with his shoulder which was thereby
seriously strained. Occasion to make similar repairs had
previously arisen at this yard at short intervals. Lorick
had for this purpose repeatedly asked the chief car inspector for a jack; and a few weeks before the accident had
been promised one. Lorick sued the company under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act in a state court of South
Carolina and testified to the facts above stated.
The case was tried twice before a jury and was twice
reviewed by the Supreme Court of South Carolina. At
the first trial the court directed a nonsuit on the ground
that Lorick had assumed the risk. The Supreme Court
set aside the nonsuit (102 S. Car. 276) holding that in
view of the promise to supply a jack, the question of assumption of risk should have been left to the jury, citing
McGovern v. Philadelphia & Reading Ry. Co., 235 U. S.
389. At the second trial defendant asked for a directed
verdict on the grounds both that Lorick had assumed the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

risk and that there was no evidence of negligence on defendant's part. This request being refused, the case was
submitted to the jury under instructions which were not
objected to; and a verdict was rendered for plaintiff.
Defendant's exceptions to the refusal to direct a verdict
were overruled by the Supreme Court. The case comes
here on writ of error where only these same alleged errors
may be considered.
The appellate court was unanimous in holding that the
trial court had properly left the case to the jury. No clear
and palpable error is shown which would justify us in
disturbing that ruling. Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Knapp,
240 U. S. 464, 466; Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Whitacre,
242 U. S. 169, 171. The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE MC-

REYNO/.DS dissent.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. OLIVIT
BROTHERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
JERSEY.
No. 577.

Argued April 9, 10; 1917.-Decided April 30, 1917.

In an action against an interstate carrier for damage to goods shipped
on a through bill of lading, the questions, (1) whether under the
Carmack Amendment the lawful holder of the bill of lading may sue
without proving ownership of the goods, (2) whether in view of
stipulations in the bill of lading limiting liability there was evidence
of negligence upon the part of the carrier sufficient to go to the jury,
and (3) whether a recovery of freight paid the carrier by the shipper

