OCTOBER TERM, 1916,
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

The defenses were denials of the allegations of the complaint and an averment that the delay in delivery was
caused by a strike on the road, for which cause, under
the bills of lading issued by the initial carrier pursuant
to the Interstate Commerce Act, defendant was exempt
from liability for damages. This was one of the defenses
in No. 577; with which this case was submitted.
Judgment was entered for plaintiff by consent and that
plaintiff's damages be assessed at $1,841.13, "reserving
to defendant the right to reduce said judgment in accordance with its exceptions and objections pertaining to the
measure of damages and without prejudice to defendant
to appeal from said judgment pursuant to law."
The judgment was affirmed by the Court of Errors and
Appeals. 88 N. J. L. 235. Indeed, it was upon the opinion
in the latter case that the Court of Errors and Appeals
decided No. 577.
On the authority of No. 577 the motion to dismiss
which is made is overruled and the judgment is
Affirmed.

LOTT v. PITTMAN, SHERIFF OF WARE COUNTY,
GEORGIA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT, OF GEORGIA.
No. 894.

Submitted April 13, 1917.-Decided April 30, 1917.

A writ of error to review a sentence of murder was heard by the Supreme Court of Georgia in banc and, the six justices being evenly
divided, the sentence was affirmed pursuant to Georgia Code of
1910, ยง 6116. Three of the justices participating did not hear the
argument, and one of them, voting affirmance, was not then ap-

pointed, but after his appointment and before the affirmance notice

LOTT v. PITTMAN.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was given affording the convicted person opportunity for a reargument, of which he did not avail himself. Held, that t6ie affirmance
was not in violation of due process of law.
A right of appeal is not essential to due process under the Fourteenth
Amendment, and Where it is allowed the State may prescribe the
conditions and procedure.

THE case is stated'in the opinion.

Mr. John Randolph Cooper and Mr. T. A. Wallace for
appellant.
Mr. Clifford Walker, Attorney General of the State of
Georgia, for appellee.
MR. JusTIcE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Petition in habeas corpus, in which appellant was petitioner, which presents the following facts, stated narratively:
Appellant is confined in the common jail of Ware County
in execution of a life sentence upon conviction for murder,
the sentence having been affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State. The court was evenly divided in opinion
and therefore the judgment was affirmed by operation of
law under the provision of that part of ยง 6116 of the Code
of Georgia of 1910 which is as follows: "In all cases
decided by a full bench of six Justices, the concurrence of
a majority shall be essential to a.judgment of reversal;
and if the Justices are evenly divided, the judgment of the
court below shall stand affirmed."
Three of the judges did not hear the argument but
participated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued before the Supreme Court on
June 3, 1916, and when it was argued Justice Gilbert was
not even a member of the court but was appointed in

OCTOBER TERM. 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

September, 1916, to fill the place made vacant by the death
of a member of the court.
Upon these facts it is averred that appellant was denied
a right guaranteed by the Constitution and laws of the
United States, the benefit of counsel and right to be heard,
which abridged his privileges and immunities as a citizen
of the United States, deprived him of liberty without due
process of law and of his right to have a judicial determination of his guilt or innocence by a reviewing court.
Attached to the petition was a transcript of the record
in the trial court and the Supreme Court.
His prayer to be discharged was denied. An appeal was
allowed, the court certifying that there was probable
cause.
It appears from the transcript of the record that the
judgment affirming the sentence was rendered after
Justice Gilbert had taken his seat as a member of the
court and that if he had not taken part the judgment
would have been reversed. It also appears that after
the judgment a petition for rehearing was filed which
attacked the statute permitting a judgment of affirmance by a divided court upon the same grounds as those
alleged in the petition for habeas corpus and now urged
here, and also attacked the judgment for the participation
therein of Justice Gilbert.
It was stated in the petition for rehearing as follows:
"This case having been heard before three Justices by
oral argument, or rather Wash Lott having appeared by
attorneys, the case having been passed upon by the Court
as a whole consisting of the entire six Judges, and the defendant not having been heard before the said six Judges
either in person or by attorneys, movant begs leave to
call the Court's attention to Section 6115 of the Code of
1910, which is as follows:
"'Whenever any Justice in either division differs
from the other two as to any particular case pending be-

LOTT v. PITTMAN.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fore it, such case shall go to the Court as a whole, or any
one or more Justices of the other division may be argued
before one division only, it may, upon its own motion, but
not otherwise, order a reargument therein.'" "
It was suggested that the court "hear reargument in
this case on its own motion" because the court had overlooked the section of the code quoted above and the provision of the Constitution of the United States which
gives assurance that no person shall be deprived of his
liberty without due process of law.
The petition was filed November 24th and overruled
December 19, 1916. Upon what consideration it does not
appear; but it may be presumed that the court was of
opinion that the statute of the State had been adequately
complied with. The Attorney General asserts in his
brief, and there is no denial by appellant, that after the
appointment of Justice Gilbert notice was given to parties
and counsel in all cases then pending in which argument
had been heard prior to his appointment and which were
to be passed on by him, setting a time for reargument of
such cases. The appellant, therefore, was given an opportunity to be heard. Besides the right of appeal is not
essential to due process. Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S.
505, 508. It was, therefore, competent for the State
to prescribe the procedure and conditions, and the cases
cited by appellant are not apposite.
Order affirmed.
'REPORTER'S NoTE: This section was erroneously codified in the
Code of 1910. It should read as follows: "Whenever any Justice in
either division differs from the other two as to any particular case
pending before it, such case shall go to the court as a whole for decision; and whenever it decides a case which has been argued before
one division only, it may, upon its own motion, but not otherwise,
order a reargument therein." See Code of 1911, ยง 6115, and note.

