CALIFORNIA v. DESERET WATER, &c. CO.
243 U. S.

415

Counsel for Parties.

STATE OF CALIFORNIA v. DESERET WATER, OIL
& IRRIGATION COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 269. Argued January 29, 1917.-Decided March 26, 1917.
When the decision of the state court in the application of state laws
to real property is controlled by a construction of federal statutes
concerning the title, which were relied on by the party complaining,
this court has jurisdiction to review the judgment.
When a forest reservation is made to include a school section previously
surveyed, the State may waive its right to the section and select
other lands in lieu, under §§ 2275, 2276, Rev. Stats., as amended by
the Act of March 3, 1891, c. 384, 26 Stat. 796.
This court will not readily disturb a construction of a land law by the
Land Department which, though differing from an earlier one, has
been adopted on full consideration and long consistently adhered
to by the Department, and upon the faith of which large acreages
have been acquired and large expenditures have been made.
167 California, 147, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John T. Nourse, Deputy Attorney General of the
State of California, with whom Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney
General of the State of California, was on the briefs, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles F. Consaul, with whom Mr. A. H. Ricketts
and Mr. W. H. Metson were on the briefs, for defendant
in error.
Mr. Charles D. Mahaffie, Solicitor for the Department
of the Interior, Mr. C. Edward Wright and Mr. Oscar W.
Lange, by leave of court, filed a brief on behalf. of the
United States as amici curice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The Deseret Water, Oil & Irrigation Company brought
a proceeding in condemnation in the Superior Court of
Mono County, California, against the State of California,
to appropriate by right of eminent domain certain lands
in that State, for the purpose of preserving and maintaining water rights, equipping and operating canals, etc.,
to be used in supplying water and power to mines, farming neighborhoods, cities, and towns and villages, and to
corporations and individuals, draining, reclaiming and
irrigating lands, equipping, operating and maintaining
ditches, reservoirs, etc., and for the operation and maintenance of pumps and pumping plants, electrical lighting
and power plants, and electric and power lines.
The right to make such appropriation was sustained in
the Superior Court, but upon appeal this judgment was
reversed by the District Court of Appeal for the Third
Appellate District. Thereupon, upon motion to the Supreme Court of California, the cause was transferred to
that court for hearing and decision, and, upon consideration, the judgment of the Superior Court was affirmed.
167 California, 147. The Supreme Court held that the
lands belonged to the State, and that by certain statutes
of the State it had been provided that, notwithstanding
the ownership of the State, the lands might be appropriated to a public use such as the Water Company was
lawfully proposing to make of them, and that as to such
matters the State had consented to be sued in the same
manner as any private proprietor might be. A writ of
error brings the case to this court.
The land in question is a sixteenth section, passing to
the State by virtue of, the federal grant for school purposes.
Act of 1853, 10 Stat. 244; Act of 1866, 14 Stat. 219. Afterward, a national reservation, known as the Mono Forest
Reserve, was established by proclamation of the President.

CALIFORNIA v. DESERET WATER, &c. CO. 417
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This reservation included this section 16 within its boundaries.
It was shown at the trial that the lands in question
were withdrawn from sale by the State by an act of the
legislature, and it was contended they could only be used
as bases for lieu selections. The surveyor-general of' the
State offered the lands as bases for such selections, except
forty acres, for which the State had sold an indemnity
certificate entitling the purchaser to surrender that land,
and apply for unappropriated public land in lieu thereof.
All the remainder had been offered for lieu selections which
are pending in the General Land Office.
The Supreme Court of California held that the title to
the lands was completely vested in the State, and subject
to condemnation at the instance of the Water Company.
A motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction has been
submitted. As we shall have occasion to see in the further
discussion of the case, its disposition depended upon the
construction of statutes' of the United States, and the
opinion of the state court shows that these statutes were
considered and federal rights asserted under them denied.
Nor can we agree that there was a local ground of decision
broad enough to sustain the judgment of the state court
independently of the construction and effect given to the
federal statute. The controlling effect of the federal statutes is conceded in the opinion of the state court, and must
necessarily follow in view of the nature of the rights dealt
with. In this situation this court has jurisdiction. Miedreich v. Lauenstein, 232 U. S. 236, 242; North Carolina
R. R. Co. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248, 257; Rogers v..Henn.epin
County, 240 U. S. 184, 188.
The federal statutes involved are §§ 2275 and 2276 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States, as amended
in 1891, 26 Stat. 796, 797. They are found in the margin.'
'"'Sec. 2275. Where settlements with a view to pre-emption or
homestead have been, or shall hereafter be made, before the survey of

418 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

As we have already stated, the State has elected to
surrender this section 16 to the United States, asking compensation in other lands for the same under the provisions
contained in the sections of the federal statutes just referred
to. It is the contention of the State that because of such
the lands in the field, which are found to have been made on sections
sixteen or thirty-six, those sections shall be subject to the claims of
such settlefs; and if such sections,'or either of them, have been or shall
be granted, reserved, or pledged for the use of schools or colleges in
the State or Territory in which they lie, other lands of equal acreage
are hereby appropriated and granted, and may be selected by said
State or Territory, in lieu of such as may be thus taken by pre-emption
or homestead settlers. And other lands of equal acreage are also hereby
appropriated and granted, and may be selected by said State or Territory.where sections sixteen or thirty-six are mineral land, or are included within any Indian, military, or other reservation, or are otherwise disposed of by the United States: Provided, Where any State is
entitled to said sections sixteen and thirty-six, or where said sections
are reserved to any Territory, notwithstanding the same may be mineral land or embraced within a military, Indian, or other reservation,
the selection of such lands in lieu thereof by said State or Territory
shall be a waiver of its right to said sections. And other lands of equal
acreage are also hereby appropriated and granted, and may be selected
by said State of Territory to compensate deficiencies for school purposes,
where sections sixteen or thirty-six are fractional in quantity, or where
one or both are wanting by reason of the township being fractional,
or from any natural cause whatever.' And it shall be the duty of the
Secretary of the Interior, without awaiting the extension of the public
surveys, to ascertain and determine, by protraction or otherwise, the
number of townships that will be included within such Indian, military,
or other reservations, and thereupon the State or Territory shall be
entitled to select indemnity lands to the extent of two sections for each
of said townships, in lieu of sections sixteen and thirty-six therein;
but. such selections may not be made within the boundaries of said
reservations: Provided, however, That nothing herein contained shall
prevent any State or Territory from awaiting the extinguishment of
any such military, Indian, or other reservation and the restoration of
the lands therein embraced to the public domain and then taking the
sections sixteen and thirty-six in place therein; but nothing in this proviso shall be construed as conferring any right not now existing.
"See. 2276. That the lands appropriated by the preceding section

CALIFORNIA v. DESERET WATER, &c. CO.
243 U. S.

419

Opinion of the Court.

action the lands in question in equity belong to the United
States, and that consequently they could not be condemned for the uses of the Water Company.
The controversy reduces itself to the precise question
whether when a forest reservation, subsequently proclaimed, includes within its limits a school section surveyed before the establishment of the reservation, the
State may under § 2275, Revised Statutes of the United
States, as amended in 1891, waive its right to such section
and select other lands in lieu thereof.
The first part of the section, giving the right to select
lands in lieu of such as were settled upon with a view to
pre-emption or homestead, is clearly limited to settlements made before survey of lands in the field, and under
the following provision, giving the right of selection to the
State where the lands are mineral or are included in an
Indian, military or other reservation or are otherwise
disposed of by the United States, it well may be that, in
the absence of the proviso, the right of selection would be
confined to instances where the lands were unsurveyed
shall be selected from any unappropriated, surveyed public lands, not
mineral in character, within the State or Territory where such.losses
or deficiencies of school sections occur; and where the selections are to
compensate for deficiencies of school lands in fractional townships,
such selections shall be made in accordance with the following principles of adjustment, to wit: For each township, or fractional township,
containing a greater quantity of land than three-quarters of an entire
township, one section; for a fractional township, containing a greater
quantity of land than one-half, and not more than three-quarters of a
township, three-quarters of a section; for a fractional township, containing a greater quantity of land than one-quarter, and not more than
one-half of a township, one-half section; and for a fractional township
containing a greater quantity of land than one entire section, and not
more than one-quarter of a township one-quarter section of land: Pro,ided, That the States or Territories which are, or shall be entitled to
both the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections in place, shall have the
right to select double the amounts named, to compensate for deficiencies of school land in fractional townships."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

when found to be mineral or included in a reservation,
and this because if the lands were unreserved and not
known to be mineral when surveyed th.e title would then
vest in the State (Sherman v. Buwk, 93 U. S. '209; Heydenfeldt v. Daney Gold & Silver Mining Co., 93 U. S. 634;
United States v. Morrison, 240 U. S. 192, 204, 207), and
because lieu selections are usually, although not always,
permitted where the right to the place lands is cut off
before the time for the title to become vested. But the
proviso, which was not originally in the statute, is an
important part of it and, according to a familiar rule,
must be given some effect. It reads:
"Where any State is entitled to said sections sixteen
and thirty-six, or where said sections are reserved to any
Territory, notwithstanding the same may be mineral
land or embraced within a military, Indian, or other
reservation, the selection of such lands in lieu thereof
by said State or Territory shall be a waiver of its right to
said sections." This language, while not as clear as it
might be, operates, as we interpret it, to give to the State
a right to waive its right to such lands where, as in this
case, the, same are included in a forest reservation after
survey, that is, after the title vests in the State. Unless
this proviso refers to lands, the title to which has passed
to the State it adds nothing to the statute and performs
no offic whatever. This construction preserves the integrity of forest reservations, and permits' the State to
acquire other lands not surrounded by large tracts in
such reservations which are withdrawn from settlement.
It is true that the interpretation 'of the statute has not
been uniform in the Department of the Interior, and it
has been otherwise construed in at least one of the federal
courts, Hibberd v. Slack, U. S. Circ. Ct, S. Dist. of California!, 84 Fed. Rep. 571. But the interpretation for which
the State insists has been long given to it by the Interior
Department. It was more than suggested' in Gregg v.

CALIFORNIA v. DESERET WATER, &c. CO. 421
24 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Colorado, 15 L. D. 151, 154, and Rice v. California, 24
L. D. 14, 15, was adopted upon full consideration in
State of California, 28 L. D. 57, and has been uniformly
followed ever since. Territory of New Mexico, 29 L. D.
364; School Land Opinion, 30 L. D. 438; Dunn v. California, 30 L. D. 608; Territory of New Mexico, 34 L. D.
599; State of California,.34 L. D. 613.
In the brief presented by leave of court on behalf of the
United States it is set forth that the rule laid down in
State of California, 28 L. D., supra, is still adhered to by
the Land Department; that selections aggregating many
thousands of acres have been made in reliance upon it,
and that no doubt large expenditures of money have been
made in good faith upon the selected lands. It is therefore urged that such construction has become a rule of
property. In this situation we should be slow to disturb
a ruling of the department of the Government to which
is committed the administration of public lands. McMichael v. Murphy, 197 U. S. 304.
Furthermore, the reasoning upon which the departmental interpretation is founded commends itself to our
judgment as best calculated to carry out the purposes intended to be accomplished by the statute in question.
It follows that the Supreme Court of California erred
in its decision of the federal question involved. With
the state questions we have no concern, their ultimate
solution being a matter for that court. The judgment
is reversed and the cause remanded to that court for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

