MOUNTAIN TIMBER CO. v. WASHINGTON.
243 U. S.

219

Syllabus.

. . . And if such employer refuses, or neglects: to.
comply with this section, he shall be liable in caie of
injury to any workman in his employ under part one (1)
of this act." The Supreme Court of Iowa, in the Hunter
Case, said of § 42, 154 N. W. Rep. 4056: "This clearly
shows that no employer is compelled to insure unless he
bas accepted, and thus become subject to, the act";
proceeding, however, to discuss the case further upon the
hypothesis that all employers named in the act were compelled to maintain insurance. In view of the construction
adopted, it is unnecessary for us to pass upon the question
of compulsory insurance in this case, appellant not having
accepted the act.
Other contentions are advanced, but they are without
merit and call for no particular mention.
Decree affirmed.

MOUNTAIN TIMBER COMPANY v. STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

OF

WASHINGTON.

No. 13. Argued March 1, 2, 1916; restored to docket for reargument November 13, 1916; reargued January 30, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.
The Washington Workmen's Compensation Act, as originally enacted,
Laws 1911, c. 74, establishes a state fund for the compensation of'
workmen injured, and the dependents of workmen killed, in employments classed as hazardous; abolishes, except in a few specified cases,
the action at law by employee against employer for damages due to
negligence, and deprives the courts of jurisdiction over such controversies. 'It is obligatory upon both employers and employees. The
fund is made the sole source of compensation, and is supplied by assessments upon each employer of definite percentages of his total

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

pay-roll. It classifies industries in groups, and aims to adjust the percentage for each group, according to hazard, declaring this the most
accurate and equitable method and promising future readjustments
by the legislature of both classification and percentages to fit experience. The contributions of each group form a separate account
or sub-fund, applicable to no other demands for compensation than
those arising in the industries composing that group. Contributions,
after the first, are not to exceed what is necessary to meet actual
losses in the group for which they are exacted. The act expressly
saves all actions and causes existing when it took effect, as between
employers and employees, some months after its passage.
Held: (1) The act not being valid against employers if not valid as
against employees, an employer may question its constitutionality in
both aspects.
(2) Viewed from the standpoint of employees, the act is the same in
principle as the act sustained in New York CentralR. R. Co. v. White,
ante, 188.
(3) The act is not objectionable upon the ground that, in violation of
the Seventh Amendment, it does away with trial by jury in the
federal courts, since it does not undertake to interfere with that mode
of tri~l in respect of private rights of action which are preserved, but
abolishes for the future all right of recovery as between employer
and employee in the cases which it covers, leaving nothing for trial
by jury either in the state or in the federal courts.
(4) Taking effect in futuro and expressly preserving intervening causes
of action, the act disturbs no vested rights.
(5) In requiring employers to make payments to the state fund for the
compensation of injured employees and the dependents of those
killed, without regard to fault, the act does not deprive employers
of their property, or of their liberty to acquire it, in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment, provided the compensation be not excessive and unreasonable, and provided the burden be fairly distributed
among the employers included in the industries affected.
(6) In the absence of any showing to the contrary, the compensation
provided by the act may be regarded as not unreasonable; this is
not to say, however, that any scale of compensation, however insignificant on the one hand or onerous on the other, would be supportable; any question of that kind may be met when it arises.
(7) As for the scheme for distributing the burden among employets,
the method of applying percentages to pay-rolls, in view of the legislative declaration of its accuracy and fairness, cannot be deemed
arbitrary if the percentages be fair; and although in this act the percentages seem high, it is plain that, as to each group of industries,

MOUNTAIN TIMBER CO. v. WASHINGTON.
243 U. S.

221

Syllabus.

the assessments, after the initial payments, will be limited to the
amounts necessary to meet the losses arising in and chargeable to
that group.
(8) The declarations of the act should be accepted as further evidence
of an intelligent effort to limit the burden to the requirements of
each industry.
(9) Since the question whether a state law deprives of a right secured
by the Constitution depends not upon how the law is characterized
but upon its practical operation and effect, and since the Constitution does not require a separate exercise of the state powers of regulation and taxation, the crucial question is whether this legislation,
be it regarded as an exercise of the power of regulation, or a combination of regulation and taxation, clearly appears to be not a fair
and reasonable exertion of governmental power but so extravagant
or arbitrary as to constitute abuse of power.
A State in the exercise of its power to pass such legislation as reasonably is deemed necessary to promote the health, safety and general '
welfare of its people, may regulate the carrying on of all those industrial occupations that frequently and inevitably produce personal injuries and disability with consequent loss of earning power
among employees, and occasional loss of life of those upon whom
others are dependent for support, and may require that these human
losses be charged against the industry, either directly, or by publicly administering the compensation and distributing the cost
among the industries affected by means of a reasonable system- of
occupation taxes.
In the absence of any particular showing of erroneous classification,
the evident purpose of an act to classify various occupations according to the respective hazard of each is sufficient answer to any contention that the act improperly distributes the burdens among the
several industries.
One Who is engaged in the business of logging timber, operating a logging railroad, and operating a saw-mill with power-driven machinery,
is not in a position to question the validity of a classification of other
businesses as hazardous.
The provision in § 4 of the Washington Worlkmen's Compensation
Law making it a misdemeanor for any employer to deduct any part
of the premium from the wages or earnings of his employees will not
be construed, in the absence of any constraining state construction,
so broadly as to prohibit employers and employees, in agreeing upon
terms of employment, from taking into consideration the fact that
the employer is a contributor to the state fund and the resulting
effect of the act upon the rights of the parties.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

243 U. S.

Quwre: Whether, if so construed, the act would not be objectionable
as an unconstitutional interference with the freedom of contract.
Whether the constitutional guaranty of republican form of government (Art. IV, § 4) has been violated, is not a judicial question, but
a political question addressed to Congress.
75 Washington, 581, affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. F. Markoe Rivinus and Mr. Theodore W. Reath,
With whom Mr. Edmund C. Strode and Mr. Coy Burnett
were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error:
The act is sought to be supported upon the grounds
that the present system thrusts the burden upon those who
are economically weakest, makes recoveries difficult,
exposes employers to excessive verdicts, wastes the insurance which it provides for employees, produces antagonism between employer and employee, and subjects
society to economic loss. The theory of the law, as of its
German prototype, is a theory of economic improvement
at the expense of the employer. It does not create or
conserve rights of members of society as individuals. No
alteration is intended in the contractual relations between
employer and employee in the way of regulating the physical performance of the duties which the relations involve,
by prescribing rules of conduct and fixing liability for
non-observance. The olbject is rather to use the relationship created by the contracts of the parties to aid as a
basis for raising between them a new and independent
contract of insurance to serve this ,economic policy.
The law of tort, including employers' liability statutes,
pertains to the redress of private wrongs. The damages
recoverable are intended to be commensurate with and to
reimburse the employee for the injury suffered. But the
obligations of workmen's compensation accrue from contingencies not within the control of the parties and thus
have no relation to their conduct; the compensation is

MOUNTAIN TIMBER CO. v. WASHINGTON.
243 U. S.

223

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

not intended to be commensurate with the injury but is
based upon some percentage of the employee's wages.
The objects of this legislation may suffice for the legislative power of Germany, but are not a legislative basis
accordant with constitutional restraints. There is grave
danger in good intentions; Webster's Speeches, National
ed., 1903, p. 207; and -foreign experience shows that from
"accident" through "occupational diseases" and their
"sequelce," this system leads to the insurance of sickness
and of unemployment, and ultimately to old-age pensions,
until no duty of thrift or foresight is left to the workman
or employer. The policy points clean beyond the relation
of master and servant to the inclusion of all misfortune.
The Fourteenth Amendment was adopted to preclude
such philanthropic interference with the liberty of a selfreliant race. If the centralized advantages of communism
or socialism are deemed preferable, the Constitution provides a method of amendment resulting in certainty of
right. The idea, so often suggested, that somehow constitutional restraints stand as a barrier to modern progress
is based on a one-sided view. The choice is not a choice
of the supposed advantages of s6cialism and the defects
of individualism but of the advantages and defects considered together of these two great conceptions. But
that choice may not be made or sanctioned by this court
for the nation. The question here is, has the Constitution
limited the state legislatures so as to preclude this legislation and the socialistic conception of governmental function upon which it is based? We shall not be able to
answer by any considerations of mere economic policy.
In the present instance the legislature lays the ground
for this so-called exercise of the police power by a finding
that substantially all of the industrial operations in the
State are "extra hazardous." By no intelligible definition
or understanding of the words "extra hazardous" can this
finding be true. All occupations are in some degree haz-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

243 U. S.

ardous. Life is hazardous. Demonstrably many of the
industries named in the law are not extra hazardous as
compared with agricultural or domestic occupations.
Statistically, agriculture, for example, proves one of the
most hazardous of all occupations, more hazardous than
railroading. Yet farming is omitted from the act. The
legislature cannot say that which is either obviously
impossible or demonstrably untrue, and having said it be
above judicial review and constitutional restraint. Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45; Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S.
420. There can be no permanence and stability in the
fundamental concepts of government if the courts may
abandon the attempt to define the limits of. police power
as impossible and then justify, upon legislative fiat, a law
against constitutional objection as an exercise of that
power. In Lochner v. New York, supra, this court realized
and faced its difficult duty in this .regard. That was a
difficult case owing to a conflict of evidence as to hazard.
But the principle of the case, that legislative fiat cannot
make hazard if none exists, is changeless and established
by all authority in this court. The Washington law, in
substantially all the callings of industrial life, by such a
fiat, attempts to deprive the employer and employee of
liberty of contract by requiring the employer to insure his
employee against industrial accident and the employee to
surrender his other rights. The law includes bakeries
under "working in food stuffs," also "creameries"-in
short, substantially all industrial occupations.
Compensation laws are based on a socialistic, economic
theory. That theory has no relation to hazard. The
farm-hand or domestic servant who breaks his arm at
work is from the economic view-point as much entitled to
compensation and state support as the industrial worker.
And such was the German and English experience, where
the compensation scheme was of necessity finally extended
to all employments irrespective of hazard. The essay on

MOUNTAIN TIMBER CO. v. WASHINGTON.
243 U. S.

225

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

hazard which constitutes the introduction of the Washington law is for the purpose of meeting constitutional
objection to a socialistic scheme; but hazard as aground of
the law is embarrassing in the execution of the economic
policy. For we find hazard put forward in justification
of the law, but stretched beyond judicial recognition.
Hazard is put forward to meet constitutional objection;
while the conflicting economic theory, which must disregard hazard, is put forward to justify the law under the
police power.
The law cannot be justified as special taxation upon
employers to compensate employees for injuries incurred
in employment. In this aspect the taxing power is invoked to execute an economic theory rather than to raise
revenue. See Cooley on Taxation, p. 1125. And so the
problem is not changed, for the law must still be a legitimate exercise of .the police power. The problem of restraints, then, is not simplified by reference to the taxing
power; it is further complicated- by consideration of a
superadded set of restraints,-those appropriate to the
taxing power.
Taxation must always be according to constitutional
restraints. Economic theory cannot alone justify its
exercise. Economic advantage may inhere in or result
from a particular tax scheme but this is incidental, and
not the constitutional justification of the scheme. If
economic advantage would justify the taking of property
for some purpose benign in itself, we should see the end of
constitutional restraints upon the taxing power. The
power to levy taxes must be exercised in furtherance of
some public purpose. Savings & Loan Association v.
Topeka, 20 Wall. 655.
The purpose of this law is not public. The object is
to impose the ordinary risks of the employees' industrial
life upon the employer alone. The considerations of
policy advanced in support of this legislaton could not

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

243 U. S.

confine its scope to the risks of industrial life. Every
casualty which might cause distress, such as sickness,
unemployment or old age, would equally justify and (as
history has shown) require a state grant of the employer's money. Chicago v. Sturges, 222 U. S. 313,
distinguished.
The cases supporting special assessments depend on
compensatory benefits. Hammett v. Philadelphia,65 Pa.
St. 146, 157. Substitution of liability in all cases for
liability in tort for negligence is not such a benefit. The
purpose of the law is not confined to the poor and the indigent, and hence is ot for the maintenance of public
charity. Weismer v. Village of Douglas, 64 N. Y. 91;
Ohio & Mississippi Ry. Co. v. Lackey, 78 Illinois, 55;
Ives v. South Buffalo Ry., 201 N. X. 271, 320.
The act takes the employer's property without legal
reason, invades his and his employee's right of private
contract in a matter with which the public has no concern,
by introducing a term of industrial insurance, and is not
due process or equal protection required by the Fourteenth Amendment. Bank v. Okley, 4 Wheat. 244;
Webster's argument in Dartmouth College v. Woodward,
4 Wheat. 518, 581; Oregon Railroad & Navigation Co. v.
Fairchild,224 U. S.510, 524, 525.
St. Louis & San FranciscoRy. Co. v. Mathews, 165 U. S.
1; Heeg v. Licht, 80 N. Y. 579; Rylands v. Fletcher, L. R.,
3 H. L. 330; Actiesselskabet Ingrid v. Central R. Co. of
New Jersey, 216 Fed. Rep. 72, and similar cases involved
laws concerning injuries resulting from dangerous agencies; Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S.571, a voluntary
compensation law; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co.
v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, a law forbidding contracts
against public policy; Chicago, Rock'Island & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Zernecke, 183 U. S.582, and Noble State Bank v.
Haskell, 219 U. S.104, business affected by public interest.
The "prevailing morality" referred to by Mr. Justice

MOUNTAIN TIMBER CO. v. WASHINGTON.
243 U.S.

227

Opinion of the Court.

Holmes in the Haskell Case does not mean the transient
opinion of a majority. Such a construction of the word
"prevailing" "would justify any legislation, if only supported by a sufficient popular demand." Ives v. South
Buffalo Ry., supra, p. 319. Mr. Justice Holmes used the
word "prevailing" in the sense of predominant for all
time and was alluding, in general terms, to moral precepts
which are axiomatic. Jensen v. Southern Pacific Co., 215
N. Y. 514, was an erroneous interpretation of the decision
of this court in the Haskell Case, supra, the New York
court failing to distinguish between private business and
business, like banking, which is of direct.public concern.
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S.
186, relates to carriers, and St. Louis, Iron.Mountain &
Southern Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, to a law creating a substantive duty of care. Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. Melton, 218 U. S. 36, is no authority for the
arbitrary classification of substantially all industrial businesses under one head as extra hazardous.
Mr. W. V. Tanner, Attorney General of the State of
Washington, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE. PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action brought by the State against plaintiff in error, a corporation engaged in the business of logging timber and operating a logging railroad and a sawmill having power-driven machinery, all in the State
of Washington, to recover under c. 74 of the Laws of
1911, known as the Workmen's Compensation Act, certain
premiums based upon a percentage of the estimated
pay-roll of the workmen employed by plaintiff in error
during the three months beginning October 1, 1911.
Plaintiff in error by demurrer raised objections to the
act based upon the Constitution of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

The Supreme Court of Washington overruled them, and
affirmed a judgment in favor of the State, 75 Washington,
581, following its previous decision in State, ex rel. DavisSmith Co. v. Clausen, 65 Washington, 156; and the case
comes here under § 237, Judicial Code.
The act establishes a state fund for the compensation
of workmen injured in hazardous employment, abolishes,
except in a few specified cases, the action at law by employee against employer to recover damages on the ground
of negligence, and deprives the courts of jurisdiction over
such controversies. It is obligatory upon both elnployers
and employees in the hazardous employments, and the
state fund is maintained by compulsory contributions from
employers in such industries, and is made the sole source
of compensation for injured employees and for the dependents of those whose injuries result in death. We will recite
its provisions to an extent sufficient to show the character
of the legislation.
The first section contains a declaration of policy, reciting that the common-law system governing the remedy
of workmen against employers for injuries received in
hazardous work is inconsistent with modern industrial
conditions, and in practice proves to be economically
unwise and unfair; that the remedy of the workman has
been uncertain, slow and inadequate; that injuries in such
employments, formerly occasional, have become frequent
and inevitale; and that the welfare of the State depends
upon its industries, and even more upon the welfare of its
wage-workers. "The State of Washington, therefore,
exercising herein its police and sovereign power, declares
that all phases of the premises are withdrawn from private
controversy, and sure and certain relief for workmen,
injured in extra hazardous work, and their families and
dependents is hereby provided regardless of questions of
fault and to the exclusion of every other remedy, proceeding or compensation, except as otherwise provided in this

MOUNTAIN TIMBER CO. v. WASHINGTON.
243 U. S.

229

Opinion of the Court.

act; and to that end all civil actions and civil causes of
action for such personal injuries and all jurisdiction of
the courts of the state over such causes are hereby abolished, except as in this act provided."
The second section, declaring that while there is a hazard in all employment, certain employments are recognized as being inherently constantly dangerous, enumerates those intended to be embraced within the term
"extra hazardous," including factories, mills and workshops where machinery is used, printing, electrotyping,
photo-engraving and stereotyping plants where machinery
is used; foundries, blast furnaces, mines, wells, gas works,
water works, reduction works, breweries, elevators,,
wharves, docks, dredges, smelters, powder works; logging,
lumbering, and shipbuilding operations; logging, street
and interurban railroads; steamboats, railroads, and a
number of others; at the same time declaring that if there
be or arise any extra hazardous occupation not enumerated, it shall come under the act, and its rate of contribution to the accident fund shall be fixed by the Department created by the act upon the basis of the relation.
which the risk involved bears to the risks classified, until
the rate shall be fixed by legislation. The third section
contains a definition of terms, and, among them, "Workman means every person in this state, who, after September 30, 1911, is engaged in the employment of an employer
carrying on or conducting any of the industries scheduled
or classified in section 4, whether by way of manual labor
or otherwise, and whether upon the premises or at the
plant, or, he being in the course of his employment, away
from the plant of his employer;" with a proviso giving
to a workman injured while away from the plant through
the negligence or wrong of another not in the same employ,
or, if death result from the injury, to his widow, children,
or dependents, an election whether to take under the act
or to seek a remedy against the third party. "Injury"

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

is defined as an injury resulting from some fortuitous
event, as distinguished from the contraction of disease.
Section 4 contains a schedule of contribution, reciting
that industry should bear the greater portion of the burden of the cost of its accidents, and requiring each employer prior to January 15th of each year to pay into the
state treasury, in accordance with the schedule, a sum
equal to a percentage of his total pay-roll for the year, "the
same being deemed the most accurate method of equitable distribution of burden in proportion to relative
hazard." The application of the act as between employers
and workmen is made to date from the first day of Octo-'
ber, 1911, the payment for that year to be made prior to
that date and upon the basis of the pay-roll of the last
preceding three months of operation. At the end of each
year an adjustment of accounts is to be made upon the
basis of the actual pay-roil. The .schedule divides the
various occupations into groups, and imposes various
percentages upon the different groups, the lowest being
1Y2%, in the case of the textile industries, creameries,
printing establishments, etc., and the highest being 10%,
in the case of powder works. The same section establishes 47 different classes of industry, and declares:
"For the purpose of such payments accounts shall be
kept with each industry in accordance with the classification herein provided and no class shall be liable for the
depletion of the accident fund from accidents happening
in any other class. Each class shall meet and be liable
for the accidents occurring in such class. There shall
be collected from each class as an initial payment into the
accident'fund as above specified on or before the 1st day
of October, 1911, one-fourth of the premium of the next
succeeding year, and one-twelfth thereof at the close of
each month after December, 1911: Provided, Any class
having sufficient funds credited to its account at the end
of the first three months or any month thereafter, to meet

MOUNTAIN TIMBER CO. v. WASHINGTON.
243 U. S.

231

Opinion of the Court.

the requirements of the accident fund, that class shall not
be called upon for such month. In case of accidents
occurring in such class after lapsed payment or payments
said class shall pay the said lapsed or deferred payments
commencing at the first lapsed payment, as may be
necessary to meet such requirements of the accident fund.
The fund thereby created shall be termed the 'accident
fund' which shall be devoted exclusively to the purpose
specified for it in this act. In that the intent is that the fund
created under this section shall ultimately become neither
more nor less than self-supporting, exclusive of the expense
of administration,the rates in this section named are subject
to future adjustment by the legislature, and the classifications
to rearrangementfollowing any relative increase or decrease
of hazard shown by experience.' . . . If, after this act
shall have come into operation, it is shown by experience
under the act, because of poor or careless management,
any establishment or work is unduly dangerous in comparison with other like establishments or works, the department may advance its classification of risks and
premium rates in proportion to the undue hazard. In
accordance with the same principle, any such increase in
classification or premiump rate, shall be subject to restoration to the schedule rate. . . . If, at the end of any
I By Sess. Laws 1915, c. 188, p. 674, 677, § 4 was amended so as to
substitute in the place of the clause italicised the following: "In that the
intent is that the fund created under this section shall utltimately become neither more nor less than self-supporting, exclusive of the expe.nse of administration, the rates named in this section are subject to
future adjustment by the industrial insurance department, in accordance with any relative increase or decrease in hazard shown by experience, and if in the judgment of the industrial insurance 'department
the moneys paid into the fund of any class or classes shall be insufficient
to properly and sufficiently distribute the burden of expense of accidents occurring therein, the department may divide, rearrange or
consolidate such class or classes, making such adjustment or transfer of
funds as it may deem proper."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

year, it shall be seen that the contribution to the accident
fund by any class of industry shall be less than the drain
upon the fund on account of that class, the deficiency
shall be made good to the fund on the 1st day of February
of the following year by the employers of that class in
proportion to their respective payments for the past
year."
Section 5 contains a schedule of the compensation to be
awarded out of the accident fund to each injured workman, or to his family or dependents in case of his death,
and declares that except as in the act otherwise provided
such payment shall be in lieu of any and all rights of action
against any person whomsoever. Where death results
from the injury, the compensation includes the expenses
of burial, not exceeding $75 in any case, a monthly payment of $20 for the widow or invalid widower, to cease at
remarriage, and $5 per month for each child under the
age of 16 years until that age is reached, but not exceeding

$35 in all, with a lump sum of $240 to a widow upon her
remarriage; if the workman leaves no wife or husband, but
a child or children under the age of 16 years, there is to be
a monthly payment of $10 to each child until that age is
reached, but not exceeding a total of $35 per month; if
there be no widow, widower, or child under the age of 16
years, other dependent relatives are to receive monthly
payments equal to 50% of the average monthly support
actually received by such dependent from the workman
during the twelve months next preceding his injury, but
not exceeding a total of $20 per month. For permanent
total disability of a workman, he is to receive if unmarried
$20, or, if married, $25 per month, with $5 per month
additional for each child under the age of 16 years, but not
exceeding $35 per month in all. (Section 7 provides that
the monthly payment, in case of death or permanent total
disability, may be converted into a lump sum payment,
not in any case exceeding $4,000, according to the expect-

MOUNTAIN TIMBER CO. v. WASHINGTON.
243 U. S.

233

Opinion of the Court.

ancy of life.) For temporary total disability there is a
somewhat different scale, compensation to cease when
earning power is restored. For permanent partial disability the workman is to receive compensation in a lump
sum equal to the extent of the injury, but not exceeding
$1,500.
By § 6, if injury or death results to a workman from
his deliberate intention to produce it, neither he nor his
widow, child, or dependents shall receive any payment
out of the fund. If injury or death results to a workman
from the deliberate intention of the employer to produce
it, the workman or his widow, child, or dependent shall
have the privilege to take under the act, and also have a
cause of action against the employer for any excess of
damage over the amount receivable under the act.
By § 19 provision is made for the adoption of the act
by the joint election of any employer and his employees
engaged in works not extra hazardous. By § 21 the Industrial Insurance Department is created, consisting of
three commissioners. By § 20 a judicial review is given
in the nature of an appeal to the Superior Court from any
decision of the Department upon questions of fact or of the
proper application of the act, but not upon matters resting in the discretion of the Department. Other sections
provide for matters of detail, and § 11 renders void any
agreement by employer or workman to waive the benefit
of the act.
From this recital it will be clear that the fundamental
purpose of the act is to abolish private rights of action for
damages to employees in the hazardous industries (and
in any other industry at the option of employer and
employees), and to substitute a system of compensation
to injured workmen and their dependents out of a public
fund established and maintained by contributions required
to be made by the employers in proportion to the hazard
of each class of occupation.

OCTOBER TERM, 191&
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

While plaintiff in error is an employer, and cannot
succeed without showing that its constitutional rights as
employer are infringed (Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531, 544; Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v. Blagg, 235
U. S. 571, 576), yet it is evident that the employer's exemption from liability to private action is an essential
part of the legislative scheme and the quid pro quo for the.
burdens imposed upon him, so that if the act is not valid
as against employees it is not valid as against employers.
However, so far as the interests of employees and their
dependents are concerned, this act is not distinguishable
in any point raising a constitutional difficulty from the
New York Workmen's Compensation Act, sustained in
New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, decided this day,
ante, 188. It is true that in the Washington Act the state
fund is the sole source from which the compensation shall
be paid, whereas'the New York Act gives to the employer
an option to secure the compensation either through
state insurance, insurance with an authorized insurance
corporation, or by a deposit of securities with the state
commission. But we find here no ground for a distinction
unfavorable to the Washington law.
So far as employers are concerned, however, there is a
marked difference between the two laws, because of the
enforced contributions to the state fund that are characteristic of the Washington Act, and it is upon this feature
that the principal stress of the argument for plaintiff in
error is laid.
Two of the constitutional objections may be disposed of
briefly. It is urged that the law violates § 4 of Article IV
of the Constitution of the United States, guaranteeing
to every State in the Union a republican form of government. As has been decided repeatedly, the question
whether this guaranty has been violated is not a judicial
but a political question, committed to Congress and not
to the courts. Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1, 39, 42; Pacific

MOUNTAIN TIMBER CO. v. WASHINGTON.
243 U. S.

235

Opinion of the Court.

States Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Oregon, 223 U. S. 118;
Kiernan v. Portland, Oregon, 223 U. S. 151; Marshall
v. Dye, 231 U. S. 250, 256; Davis v. Ohio, 241 U. S. 565.
The Seventh' Amendment, with its provision for preserving the right of trial by jury, is invoked. It is conceded that this has no -reference to proceedings in the
state courts (Minneapolis &. St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Bombolis, 241 U. S. 211, 217), but it is urged that the question
is material for the reason that if the act be constitutional
it must be followed in the federal courts in cases that are
within its provisions. So far as private rights of action
are preserved, this is no doubt true; but with respect to
those we find nothing in the act that excludes a trial by
jury. As between employee and employer, the act abolishes all right of recovery in ordinary cases, and therefore
leaves nothing to be tried by jury.
Txe only serious question is that which is raised under
the "due process of law" and "equal protection" clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment. It is contended that
since the act unconditionally requires employers in the
enumerated occupations to make payments to a fund for
the benefit of employees, without regard to any wrongful
act of the employer, he is deprived of his property, and of
his liberty to acquire property, without compensation and
without due process of law. It is pointed out that the
occupations covered include many that are private in
their character, as well as others that are subject to regulation as public employments, and it is argued that with
respect to private occupations (including those of plaintiff in error) a compulsory compensation act does not
concern the interests of the public generally, but only the
particular interests of the employees, andis unduly oppressive upon employers and arbitrarily interferes with and
restricts the management of private business operations.
The statute, although approved March 14, 1911, took
effect as between employers and workmen on October 1

236

OCTOBER TERM, I916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

in that year, actions pending and causes of action existing on September -30 being expressly saved. It therefore
disturbed no vested rights its effect being confined to
regulating the relation of employer and employee in the
hazardous occupations in futuro.
If' the legislation could be regarded merely as substituting one form of employer's liability for another, the
points raised against it would be answered sufficiently by
our opinion in New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, supra,
where it is pointed out that the common-law rule confining
the employer's liability to cases of negligence on his part
or on the part of others for 'whose conduct he is made
answerable, the immunity from responsibility to an employee for the negligence of a fellow employee, and the
defenses of contributory negligence and assumed risk, are
rules of law that are not beyond alteration by legislation
in the public interest; that the employer has no vested
interest in them nor any constitutional right to insist that
they shall remain unchanged for his benefit; and that the
States are not prevented by the Fourteenth Amendment,
while relieving employers from liability for damages
measured by common-law standards and payable in cases
where they or others for whose conduct they are answerable are found to be at fault, from requiring them to
contribute reasonable amounts and according to a reasonable and definite scale by way of compensation for
the loss of earning power arising, from accidental injuries
to their employees, irrespective of the question of negligence, instead of leaving the entire loss to rest where it
may chance to fall, that is, upon particular injured employees and their dependents.
But the Washington law goes further, in that the enforced contributions of the employer are to be made
whether injuries have befallen his own employees or not,
so that however prudently one may manage his business,
even to the point of immunity to his employees from acci-

MOUNTAIN TIMBER CO. v. WASHINGTON.
243 U. S.

237

Opinion of the Court.

dental injury or death, he nevertheless is required to make
periodical contributions to a fund for making compensation to the injured employees of his perhaps negligent
competitors.
In the present case the Supreme Court of Washington
(75 Washington, 581, 583), sustained the law as a legitimate exercise of the police power, referring at the same
time to its previous decision in the Clausen Case, 65
Washington, 156, 203, 207, which was rested principally
upon that power, but also (pp. 203, 207), sustained the
charges imposed upon employers engaged in the specified
industries as possessing the character of a license tax upon
the occupation, partaking of the dual nature of a tax for
revenue and a tax for purposes of regulation. We are not
here concerned with any mere question of construction,
nor with any distinction between the police and the taxing
powers. The question whether a state law deprives a
party of rights secured by the Federal Constitution depends not upon how it is characterized, but upon its
practical operation and effect. Henderson v. Mayor of
New York, 92 U. S. 259, 268; Stockard v. Morgan, 185
U. S. 27, 36; Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio Ry. Co.
v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 227; Western Union Telegraph Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 28, 30; Ludwig v. Western Union
Telegraph Co., 216 U. S. 146, 162; St. Louis Southwestern
Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 362. And the Federal
Constitution does not require a separate exercise by the
States of their powers of regulation and of taxation.
Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S.-183,.1$9.
Whether this legislation be regarded as a mere exercise
of the power of regulation, or as a combination of regulation and taxation, the crucial inquiry under the Fourteenth Amendment is whether it clearly appears to be
not a fair and reasonable exertion of governmental power,
but so extravagant or arbitrary as to constitute an abuse
of power. All reasonable presumptions are in favor of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

its validity, and the burden of proof and argument is
upon those who seek to overthrow it. Erie R. R. Co. v.
Williams, 233 U. S. 685, 699. In the present case it will
be proper to consider: (1) Whether the main object of the
legislation is, or reasonably may be deemed to be, of
general and public moment, rather than of private and
particular interest, so as to furnish a just occasion for
such interference with personal liberty and the right of
acquiring property as necessarily must result from carrying it into effect. (2) Whether the charges imposed upon
employers are reasonable in amount, or, on the other
hand, so burdensome as to be manifestly oppressive. And
(3) whether the burden is fairly distributed, having regard
to the causes that give rise to the need for the legislation.
As to the first point: The authority of the States to
enact such laws as reasonably are deemed to be necessary
to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of
their people, carries with it a wide range of judgment and
discretion as to what matters are of sufficiently general
importance to be subjected to state regulation and administration. Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S.133, 136. "The
police power of a State is as broad and plenary as its taxing
power." Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1, 26. In Barbier v.
Connolly, 113 U. S.27, 31, the court, by Mr. Justice Field,
said: "Neither the [fourteenth] amendment-broad and
comprehensive as it is-nor any other amendment, was
designed to interfere with the power of the State, sometimes termed its police power, to prescribe regulations to
promote the health, peace, morals, education, and good
order of the people, and to legislate so as to increase the
industries of the State, develop its resources, and add to
its wealth and prosperity. From the very necessities of
society, legislation of a special character, having these
objects in view, must often be had in certain districts,
such'as for draining marshes and irrigating arid plains.
Special burdens are often necessary for general benefits-

MOUNTAIN TIMBER CO. v. WASHINGTON.
243 U. S.

239

Opinion of the Court.

for supplying water, preventing fires, lighting districts,
cleaning streets, opening parks, and many other objects.
Regulations for these purposes may press with more or
less weight upon one than upon another, but they are
designed, not to impose unequal or unnecessary restrictions upon any one, but to promote, with as little individual inconvenience as possible, the general good.
Though, in many respects, necessarily special in their
character, they do not furnish just ground of complaint
if they operate alike upon all persons and property under
the same circumstances and conditions. Class legislation,
discriminating against some and favoring others, is prohibited, but legislation which, in carrying out a public
purpose, is limited in its application, if within the sphere
of its operation it affects alike all persons similarly situated, is not within the amendment." It seems to us that
the considerations to which we have adverted in New York
Central R. R. Co. v. White, supra, as showing that the
Workmen's Compensation Law of New York is not to be
deemed arbitrary and unreasonable from the standpoint
of natural justice, are sufficient to support the State of
Washington in concluding that the matter of compensation for accidental injuries with resulting loss of life or
earning capacity of men employed in hazardous otcupations is of sufficient public moment to justify making the
entire matter of compensation a public concern, to be
administered through state agencies.
Certainly the
operation of industrial establishments that in the ordinary
course of things frequently and inevitably produce disabling or mortal injuries to the human beings employed
is not a matter of wholly private concern. It hardly
would be questioned that the State might expend public
moneys to provide hospital treatment, artificial limbs, or
other like aid to persons injured in industry, and homes or
support for the widows and orphans of those killed. Does
direct compensation stand on a less secure ground? A

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

familiar exercise of state power is the grant of pensions to
disabled soldiers and to the widows and dependents of
those killed in war. Such legislation usually is justified as
fulfilling a moral obligation or as tending to encourage the
performance of the public duty of defense. But is the
State powerless to compensate, with pensions or otherwise, those who are disabled, or the dependents of those
whose lives are lost, in the industrial occupations that are
so necessary to develop the resources and add to the
wealth and prosperity of the State? A machine as well as a
bullet may produce a wound, and the disabling effect may
be the same. In a recent case, the Supreme Court of
Washington said: "Under our statute the workman is
the soldier of organized industry accepting a kind of
pension in exchange for absolute insurance on his master's
premises." Stertz v. Industrial Insurance Commission,
91 Washington, 588, 606. It is said that the compensation
or pension under this law is not confinef to those who are
left without means of support. This is true. But is the
State powerless to succor the wounded 'except they be
reduced to the last extremity? Is it debarred from compensating an injured man until his own resources are first
exhausted? This would be to discriminate against the
thrifty and in favor of the improvident. The power and
discretion of the State are not thus circumscribed by the
Fourteenth Amendment.
Secondly, is the tax or imposition so clearly excessive as
to be a deprivation of liberty or property without due
process of law? If not warranted by any just occasion,
the least imposition is oppressive. But that point is
covered by what has been' said. Taking the law, there-.
fore, to be justified by the public nature of the object,
whether as a tax or as a regulation, the question whether
the charges are excessive remains. Upon this point no
particular contention is made that the compensation
allowed is unduly large; and it is evident that unless it be

MOUNTAIN TIMBER CO. v. WASHINGTON.
243 U. S.

241

Opinion of the Court.

so the corresponding burden upon the industry cannot be
regarded as.excessive if the State is at liberty to impose the'
entire burden upon the industry. With respect to the
scale of compensation, we repeat what we have said in,
New York CentralR. R. Co. v. White, that in sustaining the
law we do not intend to say that any scale of compensation, however insignificant on the one hand or onerous on
the other, would be supportable, and that any question
of that kind may be met when it arises.
. Upon the third question-the distribution of the
burden-there is no criticism upon the act in its details.
As we have seen, its fourth section prescribes the schedule
of contribution, dividing the various occupations into
groups, and imposing various percentages evidently intended to be proportioned to the hazard of the occupations
in the respective groups. Certainly the application of a
proper percentage to the pay-roll of the industry cannot be
deemed an arbitrary adjustment, in view of the legislative
declaration that it is "deemed the most accurate method
of equitable distribution of burden in proportion to relative hazard." It is a matter of common knowledge that
in the practice of insurers the pay-roll frequently is
adopted as the basis for computing the premium. The
percentages seem to be high; but when these are taken in
connection with the provisions requiring accounts to be
kept with each industry in accordance with the classification, and declaring that no class shall be liable for the
depletion of the accident fund from accidents happening
in any other class, and that any class having sufficient
funds to its credit at the end of the first three m6nths or
any month thereafter is not to be called upon, it is plain
that, after the initial payment, which may be regarded as
a temporary reserve, the assessments will be limited to the
amounts necessary to meet actual losses. As further rebutting the suggestion that the imposition is exorbitant or
arbitrary, we should accept the declaration of intent that

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

the fund shall ultimately become neither more nor less
than self-supporting, and that the rates are subject to
future adjustment by the legislature and the classifications
to rearrangement according to experience, as plkin evidence of an intelligent effort to limit the burden to the
requirements of each industry.
We may conveniently answer at this point the objection
that the act goes too far in classifying as hazardous large
numbers of occupations that are not in their nature hazardous. It might be sufficient to say that this is no concern
of plaintiff in error, since it is not contended that its businesses of logging timber, operating a logging railroad, and
operating a sawmill with power-driven machinery, or
either of them, are non-hazardous. Plymouth Coal Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531, 544. But further, the
question whether any of the industries enumerated in
§ 4 is non-hazardous will be proved by experience, and the
provisions of the act themselves give sufficient assurance
that if in any industry there be no accident there will be
no assessment, unless for expenses of administration.
It is true that, while the section as originally enacted
provided for advancing the classification of risks and
premium rates in a particular establishment shown by
experience to be unduly dangerous because of poor or
careless management, there was no corresponding provision for reducing a particular industry shown by experience to be included in a class which imposed upon it too
high a rate. This was remedied by the amendment of
1915, quoted in the margin, above, which, however, cannot affect the decision of the present case. But in the
absence of any particular showing of erroneous classification-and there is none-the evident purpose of the original act to classify the various occupations according to the
respective hazard of each is sufficient answer to any contention of improper distribution of the burden amongst
the industries themselves.

MOUNTAIN TIMBER CO. v. WASHINGTON.
243 U. S.

243

Opinion of the Court.

There remains, therefore, only the contention that it
is inconsistent with the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment to impose the
entire- cost of accident loss upon the industries in which
the losses arise. But if, as the legislature of Washington
has declared in the first section of the act, injuries in such
employments have become frequent and inevitable, and
if, as we have held in New York CentralR. R. Co. v. White,
the State is at liberty, notwithstanding the Fourteenth
Amendment, to disregard questions of fault in arranging
a system of compensation for such injuries, we are unable
to discern any ground in natural justice or fundamental
right that prevents the State from imposing the entire
burden upon the industries that occasion the losses. The
act in effect puts these hazardous occupations in the
category of dangerous agencies, and requires that the
losses shall be reckoned as a part of the cost of the industry, just like the pay-roll, the repair account, or any other
item of cost. The plan of assessment insurance is closely
followed, and none more just has been suggested as a
means of distributing the risk and burden of losses that
inevitably must occur, in spite of any care that may be
taken to prevent them.
We are clearly of the opinion that a State, in the exercise of its power to pass such legislation as reasonably
is deemed to be necessary to promote the health, safety,
and general welfare of its people, may regulate the carrying on of industrial occupations that frequently and
inevitably produce personal injuries and disability with
consequent loss of earning power among the men and
women employed, and, occasionally, loss of life of those
who have wives and children or other relations dependent
upon them for support, and may require that these human
losses shall be charged against the industry, either directly,
as is done in the case of the act sustained in New York
Central R. R. Co. v. White, supra, or by publicly adm.inis-

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

tering the compensation and distributing the cost among.
the industries affected by means of a reasonable system
of occupation taxes. The act cannot be deemed oppressive to any class of occupation, provided the scale of
compensation is reasonable, unless the loss of human life
and limb is found in experience to be so great that if
charged to the industry it leaves no sufficient margin for
reasonable profits. But certainly, if any industry involves
so great a human wastage as to leave no fair profit beyond
it, the State is at liberty, in the interest of the safety and
welfare of its people, to prohibit such an industry altogether.
To the criticism that carefully managed plants are in
effect required to contribute to make good the losses
arising through the negligence of their competitors, it is
sufficient to say that the act recognizes that no management, however careful, can afford immunity from personal
injuries .to employees in the hazardous occupations, and
prescribes that negligence is not to be determinative of the
question of the responsibility of the employer or the
industry. Taking the fact that accidental injuries are inevitable, in connection with the impossibility of foreseeing when, or in what particular plant or industry they will
occur, we deem that the State acted within its power in
declaring that no employer should conduct such an industry without making stated and fairly apportioned
contributions adequate to maintain a public fund for indemnifying injured employees and the dependents of those
killed, irrespective of the particular plant in which the
accident might happen to occur. In short, it cannot be
deemed arbitrary or unreasonable for the State, instead
of imposing upon the particular employer entire responsibility for losses occurring in his own plant or work, to
impose the burden upon the industry through a system of
occupation taxes limited to the actual losses occurring in
the respective classes of occupation.
The idea of special excise taxes for regulation and rev-

MOUNTAIN TIMBER CO. v. WASHINGTON.
243 U. S.

245

Opinion of the Court.

enue proportioned to the special injury attributable to
the activities taxed is not novel. In Noble State Bank v.
Haskell, 219 U. S.104, this court sustained an Oklahoiha
statute which levied upon every bank existing under the
laws of the State an assessment of a percentage of the,bank's average deposits, for the purpose of creating a
guaranty fund to make good the losses of depositors in
insolvent banks. There, as here, the collection and distribution of the fund were made a matter of public administration, and the fund was created not by general taxation
but by a special imposition in the nature of an occupation
tax upon all banks existing under the laws of the State.
In Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610, 622, and Kane
v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160, 169, we sustained laws, of a
kind now familiar, imposing license fees upon motor
vehicles, graduated according to horse power, so as to
secure compensation for the use of improved roadways
from a class of users for whose needs they are essential
and whose operations over them are peculiarly injurious.
And see Charlotte, Columbia & Augusta R. R. Co. v.
Gibbes, 142 U. S.386, 394-5, and cases cited. Many of
the States have laws protecting the sheep industry by
imposing a tax upon dogs in order to create a fund for the
remuneration of sheep-owners for losses suffered by the
killing of their sheep by dogs. And the tax is imposed
upon all dog-owners, without regard to the question
whether their particular dogs are responsible for the loss
of sheep. Statutes of this character have been sustained
by the state courts against attacks based on constitu-_
tional grounds. Morey v. Brown, 42 N. H. 373, 375;
Tenney, Chairman,v. Lenz, 16 Wisconsin, 566; Mitchell v.
Williams, 27 Indiana, 62; Van Horn v. People, 46 Michigan, 183, 185, 186; Longyear v. Buck, 83 Michigan, 236,
240; Cole v. Hall, Collector, 103 Illinois, 30; Holst v. Roe,
39 Ohio St. 340, 344; McGlone, Sheriff, v. Womack, 129
Kentucky, 274, 283 et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Dissent.

243 U. S.

We are unable to find that the act, in its general features,
is in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment. Numerous
objections are urged, founded upon matters of detail,
but they call for no particular mention, either because
they are plainly devoid of merit, are covered by what we

have said, or are not such as may be raised by plaintiff
inerror.
Perhaps a word should be said respecting a clause in
§ 4 which reads as follows: "It shall be unlawful for the
employer to deduct or obtain (sic) any part of the premium
required by this section to be by him paid from the wages
or earnings of his workmen or any of them, and the making or attempt to make any such deductions shall be a gross
misdemeanor." If this were to be construed so broadly
as to prohibit employers and employees, in agreeing upon
wages and other terms of employment, from taking into
consideration
the fact that the employer was a contributor to the state
fund, and the resulting effect of the act
.upon the rights of the parties, it would be open to serious
question whether as thus construed it did not interfere to
an unconstitutional extent with their freedom of contract.
So far as we are aware the clause has not been so construed, and on familiar principles we will not assume
in advance that a construction will be adopted such as to
bring the law into conflict with the Federal Constitution.
Bachtel v. Wilson, 204 U. S. 36, 40; Plymouth Coal Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531, 546.
Judgment affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

dissent.

