PULLMAN CO. v. KNOTT.
243 U. S.

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

not "transportation service," in the language of Union
Pacific R. R. Co. v. Updike Grain Co., 222 U. S. 215,
220-and in our opinion were not such services as were
contemplated in the Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, ยง 4,
34 Stat. 589, amending ยง 15 of the original act. On the
other hand the allowance for them falls within the plain
meaning of ยง 2 of the Act of 1906, to which we referred
above.
There is some criticism of the form of the decree, but it
prohibits with sufficient plainness all payments to George
W. Sheldon and Company, whether by way of salary,
commission, or otherwise, in consideration of the shipment
of goods by George W. Sheldon and Company over the
appellant's line.
Decree afirmed.

THE PULLMAN COMPANY v. KNOTT, AS COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 262.

Motion to dismiss submitted March 19, 1917.-Decided
April 9, 1917.

A suit to restrain a state official and his successors in office from estimating, levying and assessing a tax under a state law claimed to be
unconstitutional is a suit against him as an individual and, in the
absence of a statute otherwise-providing, abates when his term of
office expires and cannot be revived against his successor. New
Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 371, 388, distinguished.
Writ of error to review 70 Florida, 9, dismissed.

The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Thomas F. West, Attorney General of the State of
Florida, for defendant in error, in support of the motion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, Mr. Cordenio A. Severance, Mr.
Robert E. Olds, Mr. Gustavus S. Fernald and Mr. John E.
Hartridgefor plaintiff in error, in opposition to the motion.
MR. JusrncE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

Suit was brought in the Circuit Court of Leon County,
Florida, by the Pullman Company against Knott, Comptroller of the State of Florida, to enjoin him and his successors in office from estimating, levying and assessing a
tax on the gross receipts of the Pullman Company, on the
ground that the state law authorizing the tax was void
under the Constitution of the United States. The Circuit
Court held that the law was constitutional and dismissed
the bill; that decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State. 70 Florida, 9. The case was then brought here
upon writ of error.
It is now before us upon a motion of the defendant in
error, by the Attorney General of the State, to dismiss the
proceeding in this court upon the ground that there is no
proper person defendant to stand in judgment in the action. It is averred, and is not disputed, that Knott, the
defendant in error, is no longer Comptroller of the State of
Florida, his term of office having expired on January 2,
1917, and that thereupon he retired from the office of
Comptroller and has been succeeded by another, who is
the duly commissioned and acting Comptroller of the
State.
The original suit was against Knott, the bill stating that
he was the duly elected, qualified, and acting Comptroller
of the State of Florida. The bill sets forth the duties rcquiredof him in that connection in levying the tax against
the enforcement of which the injunction was sought by the
Pullman Company.
While it is true that the duty required concerns the
State, the suit is against Knott as an individual, and he

PULLMAN CO. v. KNOTT.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

alone can be punished for the failure to obey an injunction,
should one issue as prayed for in the bill. Whether the
court below was right in refusing the injunction and dismissing the bill agaipst Knott, is the question 'resented.
In such cases, a long line of decisions in this Court has
settled that the action abates upon the expiration of the
defendant's term of office, and cannot be revived against
his successor in office, in the absence of a statute. so providing.
We had occasion to review and consider these cases in
the case of Pullman Company v. Croomj Comptroller of the
State of Florida, 231 U. S. 571, in which this court held,
vacating the former order of substitution granted without
discussion, that the action for an injunction against the
enforcement of the tax abated upon the death of Croom,
Comptroller, and there being no statute covering such
cases no order of substitution could be made,:#nd thereupon dismissed the appeal for want of a proper party to
stand in judgment.
The case upon which the subsequent decisions are rested
is United States v. Boutwell, 17 Wall. 604. In that case the
rule and the reasons for it were stated by the court. That
was a suit for mandamus against the Secretary of the
Treasury, and involved the right to substitute the successor of the Secretary, his term of office having expired
since the suit was commenced. The court held that the
right to a writ of mandamus ceased to exist upon the
defendant retiring from the office of Secretary, and that
in the absence of a statute the writ must necessarily abate.
The court further held that the duty sought to be enforced
was a personal one, and existed only so long as the office
was held; that the court could not compel the defendant
to performsuch duty after his power so to do had ceased;.
that if the successor in office could be substituted he might.
be mulcted in costs for the fault of his predecessor, without
any delinquency of his own; and that were a demand

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

made upon him he might discharge the duty rendering the
interposition of a court unnecessary, and, in any event, the
successor was not in privity with his predecessor, nor was
he his personal representative. (17 Wall. 604, 607, 608.)
In Warner Valley Stock Co. v. Sm~ith, 165 U. S. 28, the
previous cases were reviewed by Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the court, and the principle was applied to a suit for
an injunction;
In United States ex rel. Bernardin v. Butterworth, 169
U. S. 600, it was held that the substitution could not be
made, even with the consent of the successor in office.
In that case it was stated that it seemed desirable that
Congress should provide for the difficulty by enacting a
statute that. would permit the successors of heads of departments who had died pr resigned -to be brought into
the case by a proper method. Congress thereupon passed
the Act of February 8, 1899, 30 Stat. 822, under the terms
of which successors of officers of the United States may be
substituted in suits brought against them in their official
capacity. This statute has no application to other than
federal officers.
In Richardson v. McChesney, 218 U. S. 487, an action
_Was brought against McChesney, as Secretary of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky. This court took judicial
notice that his term of office had expired pending the suit,
and that a successor had been inducted' into office and held
that the former rule applied, and that the only exception
to it was where the obligation sought to be enforced devolved upon a corporation or a continuing body. Marshall
v. Dye, 231 U. S. 250. This seems to be the rule in the
Florida courts. County Commissioners v. Bryson, 13
Florida, 281. In the McChesney Case this court held that
as the official authority of the secretary had terminated,
the case, so far as it sought to accomplish its object, was
at an end, and there being no statute providing for the
substitution of the successor, the writ of error was dis-

PULLMAN CO. v. KNOTT.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

missed; citing United States v. Boutwell, 17 Wall. supra;
United States ex rel. Bernardin v. Butterworth, 169 U. S.,
supra; Caledonian Coal Co. v. Baker, 196 U. S. 432, 441.
It is argued for the plaintiff in error that this court has
held that former judgments adjudicating rights against
the State are binding in subsequent actions; that the mere
fact that there has been 'achange of person holding the
office does uot destroy the effect of the thing adjudged.
New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 371, 388, 389.
But that argument does not touch the question here. It
was held in the Citizens' Bank Case that a holding that a
contract for exemption from taxation existed, bound
subsequent officers of the State. The difficulty here is
that this proceeding in error, since the expiration of
Knott's term of office, leaves no party defendant in error
to stand in judgment.
It is said that this ruling involves great hardship and
that official terms will expire so that cases of this sort
cannot be reviewed at all in this court. In this case the
judgment of the state court was rendered on June 26,
1915; the order allowing the writ of error to this court was
filed September 24, 1915; and the record was filed in this.
court on October 8, 1915. It does not appear that any attempt was made to advance the case in view of the expiration of Knott's term of office as Comptroller in January,
1917. As the law now stands, we have no alternative
except to dismiss the writ of error for want of a proper
defendant to stand in judgment.
And it is so ordered.

