OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

IN THE MATTER OF THE PETITION OF SELLING
ET AL., A SPECIAL COMMITTEE APPOINTED
BY THE ASSOCIATION OF THE BAR OF THE
CITY OF DETROIT, v. RADFORD.
PETITION TO DISBAR.
No. 21, Original. Submitted November 20, 1916.--Order made March 6
1917.
Only by the action of this court may one who has secured admission
to its bar be disbarred from practicing before it.
The character and scope of the investigation to be made on a prayer
for disbarment, before sanction is given to it, must depend upon the
character of the acts of misconduct charged, the place of their commission and the nature of the proof relied upon to establish them.
While membership of the bar of a state court of last resort and fair
private and professional character are both prerequisite to admission
to the bar of this court, loss of the first, after admission here, cannot,
without more, affect the standing of the member.
Fair private and professional character, however, are continuing essentials, and their loss by wrongful personal and professional conduct,
wherever committed, is adequate reason for disbarment.
An order of the highest court of a State disbarring a member of its
bar upon charges of personal and professional, misconduct, this court
has no authority to reexamine and reverse in the capacity of a court
of review.
Such an order of the state court, although not binding on this court
as a thing adjudged, so operates, while unreversed, against the private
and professional character of the member as to constrain this court
to exclude him from its bar also, unless, upon intrinsic consideration
of the state record, this court shall (1) find that the state procedure
was wanting in due process, (2) come to a clear conviction that
the proof of facts relied on by the state court to establish want of
fair character was so infirm that acceptance of the state court's conclusion thereon as a finality would be inconsistent with this court's
duty, or (3) discover some other grave and sufficient reason why
this court could not disbar consistently with its duty not to take that
action unless constrained under the principles of right and justice
to do so. Ex parte Tillinghast, 4 Pet. 108, distinguished.

SELLING v. RADFORD.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor Generalon behalf of the petitioners.
Mr. Thomas A. E. Weadock and Mr. Harrison Geer
for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
George W. Radford was admitted to practice in the
Supreme Court of the State of Michigan on the fifteenth
day of June, 1876. About ten years thereafter, on March
18, 1886, upon the representation that he had been for the
three years preceding a member of the Bar of the highest
court of the State of Michigan and upon the further
assurance, both conformably with Rule 2 of this court,
that his private and professional character appeared to be
fair, he was permitted to become a member of the Bar
of this court.
Represented by the Solicitor General of the United
States, the petitioners as a committee of the Association
of the Bar of the City of Detroit, specially appointed for
that purpose, seek to procure an order striking Radford
from the roll of the members of the Bar of this court on the
ground of his personal unworthiness to continue as a member of such Bar. And in coming to consider their request,
we understand their sense of pain at being called on to
discharge the duty which they unselfishly perform. The
original petition filed for that purpose alleged that in a
suit brought in a designated court of original jurisdiction
in Michigan for the purpose of disbarring Radford for
professional misconduct amounting to moral wrong, he
had, after notice and full hearing, been found to have
committed the wrongful acts complained of and had been
disbarred and that such judgment had been approved by

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

the Supreme Court of Michigan in a proceeding by certiorari taken to consider the same. Annexed to the petition was a copy of the opinion and order of disbarment
entered by the court of original jurisdiction, as well as a
copy of the opinion and order of the Supreme Court of
the State in the certiorari proceeding, the same being
reported in 168 Michigan, 474.
It was alleged in the petition that notwithstanding the
fact that Radford had by the final action of the Supreme
Court of the State of Michigan been stricken from the
rolls of the courts in that State for the reasons previously
stated, he had continued in the City of Detroit to hold
himself out as a practicing lawyer entitled to respect and
confidence as such because of the fact that he continued
to be a member of the Bar of this court, unaffected by the
order of disbarment by the courts of the State. After
reciting the unseemly condition produced by these circumstances and the disrespect for the state courts which was
naturally implied, the prayer was for a rule to show cause
and for the awarding, on the return to such rule, of the
order of disbarment which was sought.
An answer was made to the rule to show cause and a
brief filed in support of the same, as to which we think
it suffices to say for our present purposes that both the
answer and the brief take a much wider range than is
permissible and rely upon much that is here irrelevant,
not to say in some respects improper to be considered, as
the prayer for the enforcement of the judgment of the
court of last resort of Michigan is not to be converted into
a trial of the courts of that State or of the members of the
Detroit Bar Association on behalf of which the petition
was filed.,
Beyond all question, when admission to the Bar of this
court is secured, that right may not be taken away except
by the action of this court. While this is true, it is also
true that the character and scope of the investigation to

SELLING v. RADFORD.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be made on a prayer for disbarment, before sanction is
given to it, must depend upon the character of the acts
of misconduct and wrong relied upon, of the place of their
commission and the nature of the proof relied upon to
establish their existence.
While, moreover, it is true that the two conditions,
membership of the Bar of the court of last resort of a
State and fair private and professional character, are
prerequisites to admission here, there is a wide difference
in the nature and effect of the two requirements. This
follows, because the first, although a prerequisite to admission here, is ephemeral in its operation since its effect is
exhausted upon admission to this Bar which it has served
to secure,-a result which becomes manifest by the consideration that although the membership of the Bar of
the court of last resort of a State after admission here
might be lost by change of domicil from one State to another, if so provided by the state law or rule of court,
or by any dther cause not involving unworthiness, such
loss would be wholly negligible upon the right to continue
to be a member of the Bar of this court. The second exaction, on the contrary, is not ephemeral and its influence
is not exhausted when the admission based upon it. is
secured since the continued possession of a fair private
and professional character is essential to the right to be
a member of this Bar. It follows, therefore, that the personality of the member and these inherent and prerequisite qualifications for membership of this Bar are indivisible, that is, inseparable. They must, if they exist, follow
the personality of one who is a member of the Bar and
hence their loss by wrongful personal and professional
conduct, wherever committed, operates everywhere and
must in the nature of things furnish adequate reason in
every jurisdiction for taking away the right to continue
to be a member of the Bar in good standing.
In the light of these conclusions, the question is: What,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

consistently with the duty which rests upon us, is exacted
in dealing with the situation now presented?
In coming to solve that question three things are patent:
(a) That we have no authority to re-examine or reverse
as a reviewing court the action of the Supreme Court of
Michigan in disbarring a member of the Bar of the courts
of that State for personal and professional misconduct;
(b) that the order of disbarment is not binding upon us as
the thing adjudged in a technical sense; and (c) that,
albeit this is the case, yet as we have previously shown, the
necessary effect of the action of the Supreme Court of
Michigan as long as it stands unreversed, unless for some
reason it is found that it ought not to be accepted or given
effect to, has been to absolutely destroy the condition of
fair private and professional character, without the possession of which there could be no possible right to continue to be a member of this Bar.
Meeting this situation, we are of opinion that on the
ca~e presented our duty is not to review the action of the
state court of last resort-a power which we do not possess-,not wholly to abdicate our own functions by treating its judgment as the thing adjudged excluding all inquiry on our part, and yet not, in considering the right of
one to continue to be a member of the Bar of this court,
to shut our eyes to the status, as it were, of unworthiness
to be such a member which the judgment must be treated
as having established, unless for some reason we deem that
consequence should not now be accepted. In other words,
in passing upon the question of the right to continue to be
a member of the Bar of this court, we think we should
recognize the absence of fair private and professional
character inherently arising as the result of the action of
the Supreme Court of Michigan so far as we are at liberty
to do so consistently with the duty resting upon us to
determine for ourselves the right to continue to be a
member of this Bar. That is to say, we are of opinion

SELLING v. RADFORD.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that we should recognize the condition created by the
judgment of the state court unless, from an intrinsic
consideration of the state record, one or all of the following conditions should appear: 1. That the state procedure
from want of notice or opportunity to be heard was wanting in due process; 2, that there was such an infirmity of,
proof as to facts found to have established the want of fair
private and professional character as to give rise to a clear
conviction on our part that we could not consistently
with our duty accept as final the conclusion on that subject; or 3, that some other grave reason existed which
should convince us that to allow the natural consequences
of the judgment to have their effect would conflict with
the duty which rests upon us not to disbar except upon the
conviction that, under the principles of right and justice,
we were constrained so to do.
In concluding that our duty is to give effect to the finding of the state court establishing the want of fair private
and professional character subject to the limitations
stated, we confine ourselves to the case before us and therefore do not in the slightest degree call in question the ruling
in Ex parte Tillinghast, 4 Pet. 108, that a mere punishment for contempt by an inferior federal court was not a
sufficient ground for preventing admission to the Bar of
this court, there being nothing to indicate that the action
of the inferior court was based upon the doing of acts
which inherently and necessarily deprived the applicant
of the fair private and professional character essential
to admission.
Thus defining what is open to our consideration, we
think we ought not to foreclose the subject on the answer
made to the rule to show cause in the proceeding which
is now before us, but that an opportunity should be afforded the respondent, confining himself to the propositions stated, if he is so advised, to file the record or records
of the state court within thirty days from this date with

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

permission by printed brief, considering the record intrinsically, to point out any ground within the limitations
stated which should prevent us from giving effect to the
conclusions established by the action of the Supreme
Court of Michigan which is now before us, as we have
seen, as part of the petition we are now considering.
It is so ordered.
STATE OF NEW MEXICO v. LANEj SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR, AND TALLMAN, COMMISSIONER OF THE GENERAL LAND OFFICE.
IN EQUITY.
No. 20, Original.

Motion to dismiss. Submitted January 8, 1917.-De1917.
cided March 6,

The State of New Mexico filed its bill in this- court naming the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land
Office as the parties defendant and praying that a tract of land,
which the Interior Department had awarded and sold as coal land
to an entryman under the coal land law, be decreed the property of
the State by virtue of the school-land grant to the Territory of New
Mexico, and the State's succession thereto; that the entry proceedings be decreed unlawful and that issuance of patent thereon be
enjoined. Questions concerning the construction of the laws mentioned, and questions of fact concerning the character of the land
and the knowledge of it, were involved.
Held, that the suit must be dismissed as, in substance, a suit, against
the United States. Louisiana v. Garfield, 211 U. S. 70.
Semble, that the presence of the entryman as a party, he having purchased the land and paid the price, would be indispensable to the
granting of the relief prayed.
This court has no original jurisdiction of a suit by a State against citizens of other States I and citizens of the State complaining. Constitution, Art. III, ยง 2; California v. Southern Pacific Co., 157 U. S.
229.
1The bill avers that Mr. Lane is a citizen of California and Mr.
Tallman a citizen of Nevada, and the entryman, presumably, is a
citizen of New Mexico. See p. 58.

