OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

108

Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

GANNON v. JOHNSTON ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 131. Argued December 22, 1916.-Decided March 6, 1917.
Under the Choctaw-Chickasaw supplemental agreement of July 1,
1902, §§ 11, 12, 15 and 16, 32 Stat. 641, surplus lands, selected by a
member of the Chickasaw Tribe, become alienable only with the
expiration of the respective periods after patent fixed in § 16; these
restrictions accompany the land when it passes to a tribal member
by inheritance, and a conveyance by him while the periods are
running is void. Mullen v. United States, 224 U. S. 448, distinguished.
The Act of April 26, 1906, 34 Stat. 137, in providing that cofiveyances
of allotments made after selection should not be declared invalid
.solely because made prior to patent, was not intended to validate
deeds made before removal of restrictions on alienation; on the
contrary it expressly declares them null and void.
40 Oklahoma, 695, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion..

Mr. H. A. Ledbetter, with whom Mr. F. M. Adams,
Mr. D.

M. Bridges and Mr. John Vertrees were on the

brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. A.

C. Cruce, Mr. F. E. Kennamer, Mr. Chas. A.

Coakley, Mr. Guy Green and Mr. Chain Jones for defendants in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The case in the state court was begun in the District
Court of Jefferson County, Oklahoma, in 1911, by D. R.
Johnston, against C. E. Gannon, for the recovery of
certain lands, originally allotted in 1903 to Agnes Wolfe,

GANNON v. JOHNSTON.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a full-blood Chickasaw Indian. Afterwards, by amended
petition, Wilburn Wolfe was made a party plaintiff. To
this amended petition answer was filed by Gannon, asserting his title, and upon issues being made up judgment
was rendered in favor of Johnston and Wolfe as to the
"surplus allotment" of said Agnes Wolfe, and of Gannon
as to the "homestead allotment." Upon writ of error,
the Supreme Court of Oklahoma affirmed the judgment
(40 Oklahoma, 695), and the case is here upon writ of
error to the last-named court. The decision as to the
surplus lands is all that is called in question.
The lands in controversy were allotted to Agnes Wolfe,
the certificate of allotment bearing date July 7th, 1903;
the patent was signed by the Governor September 12th,
1905, and approved by the Secretary of the Interior
October 7th, 1905. Upon her death in 1903, the title
passed to her brother and sole heir at law, Wilburn Wolfe,
defendant in error here. The Supreme Court finds that
it fairly appears from the record that the allotment was
selected in the lifetime of Agnes Wolfe.
Upon October 13th, 1903, for a consideration of $1,050.00,
Wilburn Wolfe executed and delivered to one A. J. Waldock a warranty deed for the lands; several transfers
of this title were made through various persons and corporations until, on November 30th, 1907, it was acqiired,
by warranty deed, and for a good and valuable consideration, by C. E. Gannon, plaintiff in error. Since that date
he has been in possession and control of the lands and
has received the profits .therefrom, either personally or
by agents and tenants.
Upon January 4th, 1909, Wilburn Wolfe executed
and delivered to D. R. Johnston a warranty deed for
the lands in controversy, which deed was approved by
the County Judge of Pontotoc County, Oklahoma, on
March 23d, 1909, and by the Secretary of the Interior
on July 2d, 1910, in accordance with the laws of Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

gress, and it is through this deed that Johnston asserts
his title.
The correctness of the decision of the Supreme Court
of Oklahoma turns upon the question 'whether when
Wilburn Wolfe made his deed to A. J. Waldock, Wolfe
was competent to convey title to the surplus lands, it
being conceded that the title of the plaintiff in error was
derived through the grantee in the Waldock deed.
This inquiry involves a consideration of §§ 11, 12, 15,
and 16 of the supplemental agreement between the
United States and the Choctaw and Chickasaw Indians,
approved July 1st, 1902, 32 Stat. 641. Section 11 provides for allotting to each member of these tribes land
equal in value to 320 acres of the average allottable land,
and to each freedman land equal in value to 40 acres of
the average allottable land. Section 12 provides that at
the time of the selection each member of the tribes shall
designate as a homestead out-of such allotment 160 acres,
which shall be inalienable "during the lifetime of the
allottee, not exceeding twenty-one years from the date of
certificate of allotment, and separate certificate and patent shall issue for said homestead." Sections 15 and 16
are as follows:
"15. Lands allotted to members and freedmen shall
not be affected or encumbered by any deed, debt, or
obligation of any character contracted prior to the time
at which said land may be alienated under this Act, nor
shall said lands be sold except as herein provided.
"16. All lands allotted to the members of said tribes,
except such land as is set aside to each for a ,homestead
as herein provided, shall be alienable after issuance of
patent as follows: One-fourth in acreage in one year, onefourth in acreage in three years, and the balance in five
years; in each case from date of patent: Provided, That
such land shall not be alienable by the allottee or his,
heirs at any time before the expiration of the Choctaw

GANNON v. JOHNSTON.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and Chickasaw tribal governments for less than its appraised value."
The provisions of these sections, it seems to us, lead
to the conclusion that Congress intended to make them
binding upon the surplus lands not only in the lifetime
of the allottee, but as well during the periods named when
the lands might descend as in this case to and be owned
by a member of the tribe. Section 15 is positive in its
requirement that lands allotted to members shall not be
sold except as in the act provided. Section 16 makes the
land alienable after the issuance of patent, except as to
the homestead, not involved here, one-fourth in acreage
in one year, one-fourth in three years, and the balance in
five years from the date of the patent, and provides that
the lands shall not be alienable by the allottee, "or his
heirs," at any time before the expiration of the Choctaw
and Chickasaw tribal governments for less than the appraised value.
It seems quite clear that in thus enacting a statute for
the protection of a dependent people, Congress intended
to bind the surplus lands in the hands of the heirs as well
as when in the ownership of the original allottee, and to
make such land inalienable during the periods named.
Congress intended to prevent improvident sales of the
lands, and distributed the right of alienation over a period
of years, giving the right to sell at the appraised value
and in the quantities named. In view of the positive
provision of § 15, and its prohibition of alienation except
as permitted in the act, we think Congress manifested its
intention to make any other alienation void.
Counsel for plaintiff in error rely very much in support
of their contentions upon the 'case of Mullen v. United
States, 224 U. S.448. But that case dealt with an allotment of lands under § 22 where provision is made for
allotment in the right of a member of the tribe who has
died subsequently to the ratification of the agreement

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

and before receiving an allotment. Because of the difference between § 22 and the other sections it was held
that there was no restriction upon the right of the heirs
to make the conveyance in question.
The later case of Bowling and Miami Investment Co. v.
United States, 233 U. S. 528, dealt with restrictions like
those under consideration now. . The Secretary of the
Interior was authorized to make an allotment to each
member of the tribe, subject to the restriction that the
land should not be subject to alienation for the period of
twenty-five years from the date of the issuance of the
patents, and that the patents should recite in the body
thereof that the land described and conveyed should not
be alienated for twenty-five years from its date, and that
any contract or agreement to sell or convey such allotments so patented entered into before the expiration of
said term of years should be null and void. -Of such
restrictions, Mr. Justice Hughes, who also wrote the
opinion in the Mullen Case, speaking for the court, said,
at page 535:
"The question then is, whether the restriction imposed
by the act of 1889 was a merely personal one, operative
only upon the allottee, or ran with the land binding his
heirs as well. This must be answered by ascertaining
the intent of Congress as expressed in the statute. The
restriction was not limited to 'the lifetime of the allottee,'
as in Mullen v. United States, 224 U. S.448, 453, nor was
the prohibition directed against conveyances made by
the allottee personally. Congress explicitly provided
that 'the land so allotted' should not be subject to alienation for twenty-five years from the date of patent. 'Said
lands so allotted and patented' were to be exempt 'from
levy, sale, taxation, or forfeiture for a like period of years.'
The patent was expressly to set forth that 'the land
therein described and conveyed' should not be alienated
during this period, and all contracts 'to sell or convey

GANNON v. JOHNSTON.
243 U. S.

/

Opinion of the Court.

such land' which should be entered into 'before the expiration of said term of years' were to be absolutely void.
These reiterated statements of the restriction clearly define its scope and effect. It bound the land for the time
stated, whether in the hands of the allottee or of his
heirs."
We think this principle is controlling here, and that it
was the intention of Congress to make a restriction which
should bind the surplus lands, whether in the hands of
the original allottee in his lifetime or of his heirs after the
decease of the original allottee during the periods named.
The restriction was upon alienation of the lands as such,
and was not merely personal to the allottee any more than
it was in the Bowling Case.

In the Act of 1906, validating conveyances made by
the members of the Five Civilized Tribes, 34 Stat. 137,
where it was provided that conveyances made by members of the Five Civilized Tribes subsequent to selection
of allotment and removal of restrictions where patents
thereafter issue should not be declared invalid solely
because the conveyances were made prior to the issuance
and delivery of the patents, it was nevertheless provided
that deeds executed or contracts entered into before the
removal of restrictions should be null and void.
A contention that many investments have been made
upon a construction of the law differing from that given
in this case by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, and that
such construction and the common understanding of the
bar have operated to establish a rule of property which
cdnnot be changed was denied by the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma and rightly so. The matters relied upon were
inadequate to overcome the meaning of the statutory
provisions in question.
A contention that the deed from Wolfe to Johnston
was champertous within the statute of the State was considered and decided by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

in the light of its own and other decisions, and the holding
of the court did not, in our opinion, involve the denial
of a federal right such as would make that ruling reviewable here.
We think the federal questions involved were correctly
decided, and affirm the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Oklahoma.
Affirmed.

BAKER ET AL. v. SCHOFIELD, RECEIVER OF THE
MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK OF SEATTLE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 133.

Submitted January 15, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

The rule that concurrent findings of fact by two lower courts will not
be disturbed unless clearly wrong is here applied in support of findings of fraud and breach of fiduciary duty resulting in a trust.
Defendant, as receiver of a national bank, contracted on its behalf,
with the approval of the Comptroller of the Currency, for the purchase .of certain realty, used some of the bank's money in payments
on the price, and, under apparent authority from the court, sold
and assigned the contract for cash paid the bank. The assignee
acted secretly for the defendant in taking the contract, and thereafter assigned it secretly to him as an individual. Defendant resigned as receiver, and subsequently the contract was fully performed and the real property became vested in a corporation whose
shares for the most part were issued to the defendant. In a suit
brought by his successor to regain the property for the bank, Held:
(1) That the transaction was a gross breach of defendant's duty as
receiver; (2) That he was estopped to claim that the purchase of
the property was beyond the powers of the bank, Case v. Kelly,
133 U. S. 21, distinguished; (3) That delay of the suit for sixteen
years after the making of the contract and fourteen years after defendant's resignation as receiver was not laches, in view of the find-

