OCTOBER TERM. 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE, DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 733.

Argued March 15, 1917.-Decided March 26, 1917.

The District Court is without jurisdiction over an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, negative in substance and form, in
which the Commission declined to exercise its authority under the
"Panama Canal Act" of August 24, 1912, c. 390, ยง 11, 37 Stat.
560, 566, to extend the period fixed in the act for the divorcement of
railroad and water carriers. Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States.
225 U. S. 282.
234 Fed. Rep. 682, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Richard W. Barrett, with whom Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. Edgar H. Boles were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom The Solicitor General was on
the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Joseph W. Folk for the. Interstate Commerce
Commission.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill to prevent the enforcement of an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission. On December 2,
1913, the Commission issued a circular calling attention

LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 413
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the fact that the Act of August 24, 1912, c. 390, ยง 11,
37 Stat. 560, 566, known as the Panama Canal Act, prohibited, after July 1, 1914, any ownership by a railroad
in any common carrier by water when the railroad might
compete for traffic with the water carrier; and that the
Commission was authorized to determine questions of
fact as to such competition, and to extend the time beyond
July 1, 1914, if the extension would not exclude or reduce
competition on the water route. Notice was given that
applications for extension of time should be filed by
March 1, 1914. Thereupon, in January, 1914, the appellant filed a petition praying for a hearing as to whether
the services of a steamboat line owned by it would be in
violation of the above section and for an extension of
time. It is the order issued upon this petition against
which relief is sought.
The facts other than the question whether they warrant
the conclusion that the railroad and the steamboat line
do or may compete are not disputed. The railroad extends
from Jersey City to Buffalo and there connects with the
line of the Lehigh Valley Transportation Company which
runs vessels between Buffalo and Chicago and Milwaukee.
The railroad company owns all the stock of the Transportation Company; but with the exception of the interchange port of Buffalo serves no point in common with the
boats of the latter. It is, however, a party to certain
fast-freight-linc arrangements and all-rail routes and joint
rates to the ports served by its vessels. The effect of
these connections and of the railroad's membership of the
Lake Lines Association was held by the Commission to
put the railroad in a position inimical to the best -interests
of the boat line, to deprive the latter of its initiaf ratemaking power and to determine by outside authority
whether freight shall move by all rail or by lake and rail
routes, and if by the latter, by which lake line. It was
held that by virtue of these arrangements the railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

did or might compete with its boat line and upon that
decision the petition of 'the appellant was dismissed.
33 I. C. C. 699, 706, 716. 37 I. C. C. 77.
Three judges sitting in the District Court denied the
injunction asked and dismissed the bill. 234 Fed. Rep.
682. Although they proceeded to discuss the merits of
the case they intimated at the outset a strong doubt
whether in any event an injunction could be granted.
If this doubt was well founded there is nothing more to
be said, since the ground of jurisdiction is gone. We
assume that the question whether the facts found by the
Commission present a case of real or possible competition
within the meaning of the statute is a question of law that
could not be conclusively answered by the Commission;
but still there is nothing for a court of equity to enjoin
if all that the Commission has done is to decline to extend
the time during which the railroad can keep its boat line
without risk.
The order of the Commission was negative in substance
as well as in form. Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States,
225 U. S. 282, 292, 293. The risk to which the railroad
was left subject did not come from the order but from the
above-mentioned section of the Panama Canal Act
(amending ยง 5 of the Act to Regulate Commerce) making
each day of violation a separate offence and the provision
of the latter act, ยง 10, which imposes a possibly large fine.
This risk is the same -that it was before the order or that
it would have been if appellant had not applied to the
Commission, except so far as the findings establish facts
that we believe there is no desire to dispute. Without
going further it appears to us plain that the decree of the
District Court dismissing the bill was right.
Decree affirmed.

