OREGON & CAL. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 549
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

OREGON & CALIFORNIA RAILROAD COMPANY
ET AL. v. UNITED STATESON CERTIFICATE FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT
COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 492.

Argued March 8, 9, 1917.-Decided April 23, 1917.

The Oregon-California Railroad Grants (Acts of July 25, 1866, as
amended, and May 4, 1870) made no distinction between land
covered with timber and other land, nor between the timber or other
incidents and the land itself; title to all was vested in the railroad
company for transmission to actual settlers upon the terms prescribed by the acts. The substantial interest granted the company
was the right to exact not more than $2.50 per acre in so disposing
of the lands. Oregon & California R. R. Co. v. United States, 238
U. S. 393, discussed and followed.
While the railroad company could use the lands as a basis of credit, it
could not by trust deed convey an interest in either land or timber
exempt from the obligations imposed by the granting acts or the
power of the Government to compel their performance.
The granting acts being not mere instruments of conveyance but laws
reserving the right of alteration or repeal, Congress, to overcome a
situation largely due to breaches of obligation by the railroad company which made the original scheme impracticable, had power without the company's consent to resume the title and provide for disposition of the land by the Government under conditions assuring
the company the equivalent of its interest in the grants-not more
than $2.50 per acre.
The "Chamberlain-Ferris Act" of June 9, 1916, c. 137, 39 Stat. 218,
examined and found to accord with the power of Congress and the
principles laid down by this court in Oregon & California R. R. Co.
v. United States, 238 U. S. 393.
The former decision of this court having directed an injunction to hold
the land and timber intact until Congress should have reasonable
opportunity to make new provisions for disposing of them consistently with the interest of the railroad company, and an act having
been passed accordingly after entry of the decree in the District
Court, this court, upon a review of the decree based on an alleged

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

departure from its former mandate, may properly determine the
validity of the act as a matter involved in the decree's execution.
Under Rule 24, costs in this court are not allowable in cases where the
United States is a party.

Where the United States obtained a decree declaring railroad land
grants forfeited for breaches of obligation by the railroad company
and upon appeal the decree was reversed because the obligations
broken were not conditions subsequent but statutory covenants
and relief against the company by injunction was decreed accordingly, costs of the litigation in the District Court were properly
awarded by that court to the United States.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. P.-F. Dunne, with whom Mr. Win. F. Herrin, Mr.
Win. D. Fenton and Mr. Frank C. Cleary were'on the brief,
for the Oregon & California Railroad Company et al.
Mr. Perry D. Trafford for the Union Trust Company of
New York.
Mr. Constantine J. Smyth, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, with whom The Solicitqr General was
on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. FrancisJ. Heney, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curice.
MR.JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is the second appearance of the case in this court.
It is on certificate from and certiorari to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, to which court it was
taken by appeal to review a decree of the District Court
for the District of Oregon entered in fulfillment of the
mandate of this court.
The decree of the District Court was reversed and the

OREGON & CAL. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 551
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

present controversy is as to what our mandate required.
As expressing their different views of it the Government
and the railroad company-we shall so refer to the defendants, except where a distinction is necessary-submitted forms of decrees to the District Court. The court
adopted the decree submitted by the Government, and
that action is assigned as error.
The case as made in this court on its first appearance
is reported in 238 U. S. 393-438, and contains all of the
elements for the decision of the questions now presented.
Before detailing those elements we may say preliminarily
that the difference between the decree entered and that
proposed by the railroad company was in the extent of
the restraint upon the company in the disposition of
lands granted in aid of the construction of certain railroads
and telegraph lines. The acts making the grants contained
the provision that the lands granted should be sold to
actual settlers only, in quantities not greater than onequarter section to one purchaser, and for a price not exceeding two dollars and fifty cents an acre.
The decree restrained the railroad company from
selling "to any person not an actual settler on the land
sold to him," with limitation of quantity'and price stated,
"and from selling any of the timber on said lands, or any
mineral or other deposits therein, except as a part of and in
conjunction with the land on which the timber stands or
in which the mineral or other deposits are found; and
from cutting or removing or authorizing the cutting or
removal of any of the timber thereon; or from removing
or authorizing the removal of mineral or other deposits
therein, except in connection with the sale of the land bearing the timber or containing the mineral or other deposits."
The decree as proposed by the railroad company omitted
the injunction against selling the timber and mineral
deposits.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

Upon these differences in the proposed and entered
decree the railroad company bases its contention that the
latter is not in accordance with the mandate of this court,
and in support of it it has presented elaborate arguments
to establish a distinction between lands and the timber on
them and the mineral deposits in them, and that the command of the acts of Congress to sell the lands did not
include the timber or deposits. In other words, it is contended that the acts of Congress gave the railroad company "the right of an owner by absolute grant to the use
of the timber on his land" and to avail himself of the
minerals therein; and that, therefore, the restraint that
the District Court put upon the railroad company was in
excess of the mandate. "It was what this court has termed
an 'intermeddling' with matters outside of the scope of
the mandate. It proceeded to determine that the railroad had no right to use the timber upon its own lands
while they were still unsold and in its possession and occupancy; it determined that the railroad company could
not even make a clearing in anticipation of a sale to some
settler, or dig out a ton of coal; and it adjudged that the
owner of the land had no right in the timber or the coal
except to pass it, as part of the realty, when it sold the
land to a settler at $2.50 an acre."
The complaint is graphic. Its attempted justification
is the assertion of a grant in absolute ownership. Such
ownership is the foundation of the railroad company's
contention and on this foundation it builds its argument
and upon the insistence that the lands having been granted,
necessarily as incidents to them the timber and minerals
on and within them were granted. An immediate and
sufficient answer to the contention would seem to be that
the grant was not absolute but was qualified by a condition
in favor of settlers and that if the "lands" granted had
such incidents the 'lands" directed to be sold to actual
settlers were intended to have such incidents. That is,

OREGON & CAL. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 553
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

if the "lands" granted carried by necessary implication
all that was above the surface and all below the surface
to the railroad company, they carried such implication
to the actual settler. In other words, what "lands"
meant to the railroad company they meant to the settler,
embraced within his right to purchase and acquire. We
are not disposed, however, to rest upon this summary
answer but will consider with more particularity our mandate.
It is not necessary to trace the title of the lands to the
railroad company. It is sufficient to say that the source
of the title was an Act of Congress approved July 25, 1866,
c. 242, 14 Stat. 239, as amended by the Acts approved
June 25, 1868, c. 80, 15 Stat. 80; April 10, 1869, c. 27,
16 Stat. 47; and May 4, 1870, c. 69, 16 Stat. 94, which
acts granted lands to aid in the construction of certain
railroads and telegraph lines. The Act of 1869 contained
this proviso: "And provided further, That the lands
granted by the act aforesaid [Act of 1866] shall be sold to
actual settlers only, in quantities not greater than onequarter section to one purchaser, and for a price not exceeding two dollars and fifty cents per acre." There was
a like provision in the Act of 1870.
The Government brought suit against the railroad company, alleging that these provisos constituted conditions
subsequent, charging breaches of the conditions by the
company and praying for a forfeiture of the unsold lands.
The railroad company denied that the provisos were to
be so construed and alleged that they constituted restrictive and unenforceable covenants and set up other
defenses.
The District Court adopted the view of the Government as to the provisos and entered a decree forfeiting
the lands and the case came here for review.
The contentions of the Government and the railroad
company were repeated in this court, and it was, besides,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

contended that the provisos only applied to lands susceptible of actual settlement and cultivation and did not
include timber lands.'
We rejected the contention of the Government; we
rejected in part the contention of the railroad company,
saying: "Our conclusions, then, on the contentions of
the Government and the railroad company are that the
provisos are not conditions subsequent; that they are
covenants, and enforceable."
But how enforceable? And what was the remedy for
breaches?-and breaches there were, many, gross and determined. It was certainly not intended to be decided
that these breaches, with all of their consequences, were
to be put out of view and the railroad company only enjoined against future breaches. Yet this, in effect, is the
contention, and it is attempted to be supported by certain language in the opinion. Before quoting it we may
say in general that much that is cited from it must be
considered in reference to the controversies which were
presented, and that the granting acts and their provisos
were necessarily construed as of the time of their passage.
Action under them and the breaches of them came afterwards, and a consideration of the remedies to which the
Government was entitled. Keeping this comment in
mind-we can more easily understand the language of the
opinion in description of the grant and in regard to the
relief that was awarded the Government.
As to the grant this was said-and it is much insisted
on-"There was a complete and absolute grant to the
railroad company with power to sell, limited only as pre1There

were cross-complainants and interveners, the first asserting

that the provisos created trusts in favor of actual settlers, and the
second that the trust had the scope of including all persons who desired
to make actual settlements upon the lands. The decree of the District
Court and the decision here were adverse to both contentions and this
case has no further concern with them or with those who made them.

OREGON & CAL.- R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 555
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

scribed, and we agree with the Government that the
company 'might choose the actual settler; might sell for
any price not exceeding $2.50 an acre; might sell in quantities of 40, 60, or 100 acres, or any amount not exceeding
160 acres."' And we added, "it might choose the time
for selling or its use of the grants as a means of credit,
subject ultimately to the restrictions imposed; and we say
'restrictions imposed' to reject the contention of the
railroad company that an implication of the power to
mortgage the lands carried a right to sell on foreclosure
divested of the obligations of the provisos."
This declares the meaning of the words of the acts
taken by themselves. It points out the power of the railroad company and that it was "limited only as prescribed." It does not point out the remedy of the Government if the limit prescribed was transcended. For that
we must look to other parts of the opinion. We took pains
to declare that the principles of the case were "not in
great compass," that circumstances had given "perplexity
and prolixity to discussion," but had not confused the
simple words of the acts of Congress regarded either as
grants or as laws, and that they were both, and, as both,
they conferred rights quite definite and imposed obligations as much so-the first having the -means of acquisition; the second, of performance. And we gave emphasis
to them as laws and the necessity of obedience to them
as such, the remission of their obligation to be obtained
"through appeal to Congress" and not by an evasion of
them or a defiance of them.
The evasions and defiance we showed, and ,the extent
to which they transcended the policy and purpose of the
Government expressed in the covenants. We contrasted
the requirement of the grants of a sale to an actual settler
of 160 acres (maximum amount) with sales- of 1,000,
2,000, 20,000 and 45,000 acres to single purchasers, and
the use of the lands for homes with their use for immediate

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

or speculative enterprises. The relief the Government
was entitled to, we said, was not satisfied by preserving its
rights to the lands sold and we further said that "an injunction simply against future violations of the covenants,
or, to put it another way, simply mandatory of their requirements, will not afford the measure of relief to which
the facts of the case entitle the Government."
I The reason was expressed. The Government alleged,
to show a disregard of the covenants, that more than 1,000
persons had applied to purchase lands from the railroad
company in conformity with the covenants. The company, replying, said the applications were not made in
good faith for settlement, but for speculation, the lands
being valuable only for their timber and not being fit for
settlement, and further alleged that at no time had the
lands fit for actual settlement exceeded 300,000 acres,
in widely separated tracts, and had been sold during the
construction of the road and prior to its completion to
actual settlers in the prescribed quantities and at the
prescribed price.
We have seen that other sales were made in quantities
in excess of that prescribed by the-statute, and not for
settlement, at prices.from $5.00 to $40.00 an acre, and that
at the time the answer was filed there remained unsold
over two million acres, the reasonable value of which was
$30,000,000. There was no intimation that the lands
did not include the timber and it was not only recognized
but asserted that the lands were more valuable for the
timber than for settlement.
Our judgment took care of the situation. It preserved
the remedies of the Government for past violations of the
granting acts and recognized that new dispositions were
necessary to secure the rights that had accrued to the
Government. We said that owing to the "conditions
now existing, incident, it may be, to the prolonged disregard of the covenants by the railroad company, the lands

OREGON & CAL. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 557
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

invite now more to speculation than to settlement, and we
think, therefore, that the railroad company should not
only be enjoined from sales in violation of the covenants,
but enjoined from any disposition of them whatever
or of the timber thereon and from cutting or authorizing the
cutting or removal of any of the timber thereon, until Congress
shall have a reasonable opportunity to provide by legislation for their disposition in accordance with such policy
as it may deem fitting under the circumstances and at
the same time secure to the defendants all the Value the
granting acts conferred upon the railroads."
The design of this and its adequacy would seem to need
no comment. It was intended to be a guide to the District Court-indeed, a direction of the decree of the court.
The decree complied with the direction. See Southern
Oregon Co. v. United States (Circuit Court of Appeals,
Ninth Circuit, decided February 13, 1917).
Congress, in the execution of the policy it deemed fitting
under the circumstances, as expressed in our opinion,
enacted what is called the Chamberlain-Ferris Act of
June 9, 1916, c. 137, 39 Stat. 218.1 The validity of the
'The provisions of the act, so far as they affect the railroad, may be
summarized as follows:
It recites, among other things, that this court had ordered that the
railroad company be enjoined from "making further sales of lands in
violation of the law," and further enjoined from "making any sales
whatever of either the lands or the timber thereon until Congress
should have a reasonable opportunity to provide for the disposition
of said lands," etc., and enacts that the title to so much of the lands as
had not been sold by the railroad prior to July 1, 1913, be and the same
is hereby revested in the United States, excepting right of way and
lands in actual use by the railroad for depots, side-tracks, etc. (§ 1).
The lands shall be divided into three classes: power sites, timber lands,
and agricultural lands (§ 2). The timber shall be sold by the Secretary
of the Interior at such times and in such manner as may seem best,
and the lands from which it is removed shall thereafter be classed as
agricultural lands (§ 4). The lands classed as agricultural shall be sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

act is challenged and both sides invite a determination
of the challenge. The validity of the law may be said not

to be involved. The appeal is from the decree, and, that
being determined to be right, the appeal, it may be urged,
is satisfied, the questions it presents decided. It, however,
may be considered important in the execution of the decree, for we have seen that the granting acts were laws as
well as grants, had the strength and operation of laws,
ject to bntry under the homestead laws but patents shall not issue until
the lands have been cultivated for three years (§ 5). The Attorney
General is authorized to institute proceedings against the railroad company and others to have determined the amount of moneys already
received by the railroad company or its predecessors on account of sales,
etc., of the granted lands and which should be charged against it as
part of the "full value" secured to the grantees under the granting
acts as heretofore interpreted by this court. In making such determination the court shall take into consideration all moneys received from
sales of lands or timber, forfeited contracts, rent, timber depredations
and interest on contracts, or from any source relating to the lands, and
also the value of the timber from the lands and used by the grantees or
their successors. In such suits the court shall also determine the
amount of taxes on the lands paid by the United States as provided in
§ 9 of the act and which should have been paid by the railroad, and
the amounts thus determined shall be treated as money received by
the railroad company (§ 7). The title to all moneys arising out of the
granted lands and now on deposit to await the final outcome of the
suit commenced by the United States in pursuance of the joint resolution of April 30, 1908, is hereby vested in the United States and the
United States is subrogated to all the rights and remedies of the obligee
or obligees under any contract for the purchase of timber on the grant
lands (§ 8). Provision is made for the payment by the United States
of accrued taxes on the lands revested by the act (§ 9). The proceeds
of the timber and the lands shall be deposited in the Treasury of the
United States and be paid to the railroad or the lien holders as the
fund accumulates, -and at the end of ten years an appropriation shall
be made from the general funds of the Treasury of the United States
to pay any balance which may be due to the railroad (§ 10). The profits
derived from the transaction shall be paid one-quarter to the State of
Oregon and one-quarter to the counties where the lands are situated,
while one-half shall be retained by the Government (§ 10).

OREGON & CAL. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 559
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

subject to amendment if the right of amendment existed
or accrued. There was a reservation in them of the right
of alteration or repeal and if it could not be exerted to
take back what had been granted and had vested, it could
be exerted to accomplish the remedy which the court
adjudged to the Government for the violation by the
railroad company of the provisions of the grants. It is
no answer to the exertion of the power and remedy to
say that the acts of Congress were initially complete and
absolute grants. It is to be borne in mind that they carried with them covenants to be performed and necessarily
an obligation to perform them, with remedies for breaches
of performance. Such was our judgment, as we have seen,
and the judgment was adapted to the conditions created
by the breaches, and for this legislation was deemed necessary.
But the railroad company says that the legislation
directed was to have its consent and that such consent
"was essential to a valid resumption or alteration of its
vested rights," and that this was what this court meant
when it said "that any legislation in the premises by Congress should 'secure to the defendants all the value the
granting acts conferred upon the railroads."'
We have already answered the contentions. The railroad company, by pushing into view the rights conferred
by the granting acts and putting out of view the wrongs
committed by it, can easily build an argument upon and
invoke the inviolability of vested rights; and to say that
its consent was necessary to legislation is to say that it
could dictate the remedy for its wrongs, preclude or embarrass the policy of the Government.
The interest that the granting acts conferred upon the
railroad company was $2.50 an acre. That secured to it,
"all the value the granting acts conferred" upon it was
secured. It is true it had the right of sale, selection of
time and settler, If these were rights, they were also aids

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opiion of the Court.

243 U. S.

to the duty of transmitting the lands to settlers; and, the
duty having been violated, they became unsuitable to the
conditions resulting and obstructions to the relief which
had accrued to the Government. In other words, by the
conduct of the railroad company the policy of the granting acts had become impracticable of performance and
the new conditions-the lands inviting more to speculation than to settlement-demanded other provision than
that prescribed by the granting acts. This was the declaration and direction of our judgment, and the Chamberlain-Ferris Act is the execution of it.
The Union Trust Company was one of the defendants
in the suit and is one of the parties here. It was heard by
its own counsel at the bar and through brief. In the main
its argument is the same as that of the railroad company,
varied somewhat in detail, and asserts that it has not only
the rights of the railroad but, "in addition and especially,
that even if it is possible for the Government now to take
away rights once conveyed to the railroad, it cannot take
them except subject to the lien of the mortgage."
So far as the rights of the trust company coincide with
those of the railroad company we have considered them,
and they cannot be greater than those of that company.
The railroad company, it is true, could use the lands as a
basis of credit, but only to the extent of its interest in
them, subject to the performance of its obligations and the
power of the Government to exact their performance.
We were careful to observe this subordination. We
expressed the extent of the interest that the railroad company received and that "it might choose the time for
selling or its use of the grants as a means of credit," but,
we also said, "subject ultimately to the restrictions imposed." And, further, we said "'restrictions imposed'
to reject the contention that an implication of the power
to mortgage the lands carried a right to sell on foreclosure
divested of the obligations of the provisos."

OREGON & CAL. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 561*
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The case was responded to as it was presented and no
phase of it was omitted in presentation or response that
could influence its judgment. Of what was in the minds
of counsel, determining and urging their contentions, of
what was in the mind of the court in response to the contentions, the opinion leaves no doubt, and that after the
fullest consideration of all that was involved of rights
and remedies the judgment was pronounced.
A distinction is now attempted to be made between a
sale of the lands and the use of the lands, including in the
use of them the right to cut the timber upon them and
extract minerals (coal and iron) from them. Such use,
it is asserted, is a necessary incident of ownership and thAt
such usewas not intended to be taken away nor could it
have been taken away by our judgment.
To answer the contentions would be mere repetition of
what we have said. The distinction now made between
the lands and their use is but the contention urged on the
first appeal and rejected-that the provisos only applied
to lands susceptible of actual settlement and not to timber
lands. The distinction then was between the lands, now
between their constituting elements, and for the same
reason: to give to the railroad company and the trust company what the granting acts did not give, or, rather, gave
for the purpose of transmission to actual settlers. This
transmission becoming impracticable, other disposition
of the lands, including all that is signified by the word,
was adjudged.
The trust company also attacks the ChamberlainFerris Act and is assisted in the attack by a,"friend of the
court." The attacks have the same basis as that which
we have noticed-that is, the rights of the railroad company are asserted to be vested and inviolable. The contention gets a semblance of strength from the ability of
counsel. To yield to it would be in effect to declare that
covenants violated are the same as covenants performed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

wrongs done the same as rights exercised-and, by confounding these essential distinctions,, give to the transgression of the law what its observance is alone entitled to.
The decree of the District Court taxed costs against the
railroad company, and this is assigned as error. The
amount is stated to be $6,249.02. So far as this sum includes costs on the former appeal we think there was
error. The railroad company' was compelled to appeal
from the decree against it. The decree was reversed and
no costs were awarded for or against it, and could not have
been under Rule 24 of this court. The rule gives costs
to the prevailing party in certain cases. The provision,
however, does not "apply to cases where the United States
are a party; but in such cases no costs shall be allowed in
this court for or against the United States." Our mandate
was in accordance with the rule and the decree should not
have awarded costs to the United States. To that extent
it is erroneous and should be modified by deducting the
costs which were incurred in this court; and, so modified,
it is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consider-

ation and decision 'of this case.

