OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

transfer of real property, fixing the age of majority and
declaring the disability of minors."
We reach the conclusion that in this suit the United

States was without capacity to bring the action for the
benefit of the Indians named, and it follows that the
question propounded must be answered in the negative.
And it is so ordered.

UNITED STATES v. ROWELL ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 63.

Argued November 2, 3, 1916.-Decided April 9, 1917.

In the exercise of its guardian powers over tribal Indians through allotment of lands of their reservation and conversion of surplus lands
into tribal funds, Congress is free to adjust its action to meet new
and changing conditions so long as no fundamental right is violated.
Having enrolled a white man as an adopted member of an Indian
tribe, and authorized and directed the Secretary of the Interior to
issue him a patent in fee for a designated tract of the tribal land as
his allotment, to be in lieu of all claim on his part to allotment or to
money settlement in lieu thereof, Congress had power to recall the
direction before the fee had passed, upon finding that the tract designated had been lawfully devoted to a special use (e. g., school purposes) from which it could not be withdrawn with due regard for
the tribe, or that in situation and value it exceeded a fair distributive share of the common property-this without prejudice to the
right of the allottee to obtain another allotment in the usual way.
An act of Congress directing the Secretary of the Interior "to issue a
patent in fee" to a designated member of an Indian tribe for a designated tract of land set apart as his allotment, but containing no
other words indicative of an intention to pass title by the act itself,
Held, not a grant in prcesenti.
Such, a provision calls for no acceptance other than such as would be
implied from taking the patent when issued,

UNITED STATES v. ROWELL.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

A direction by Congress that a patent be issued an individual for land
assigned him as an Indian allotment is to be regarded, not as a proposal by the Government which upon acceptance makes a'contract,
but as a law amendable and repealable at the will of Congress, subject to the qualification that rights created by the execution of such
provision can not be divested or impaired. Levey v. Stackslager,
Commissioner, 129 U. S. 470.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Warren, with whom
Mr. S. W. Williams was on the brief, for.the United States.
Mr. Henry E. Asp, with whom Mr. Henry G. Snyder,
Mr. Frederick B. Owen and Mr. Walter A. Lybrand were
on the briefs, for defendants in error.
Mn. Jusucu VAN DEvANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is an action in ejectment brought by the United
States against James F. Rowell and two others. The land
in controversy is a quarter-section-one hundred sixty
acres-in an Indian school reserve in Comanche County,
Oklahoma.
Three statutes, all enacted in the same year, must be
noticed. The first of these is a provision in the Act of
April 4, 1910, c. 140, 36 Stat. 269, 280, authorizing and
directing the Secretary of the Interior "to enroll and allot"
James F. Rowell as an adopted member of the Kiowa
tribe of Indians. The second is the following provision
in the Act of June 17, 1910, c. 299, ยง 3, 36 Stat. 533: "That
the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a patent in fee for" the tract in controversy "to James F. Rowell a full member of the Kiowa,
Comanche and Apache Tribes of Indians of Oklahoma,
who has heretofore received no allotment of land from any

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

source; this to be in lieu of all claims to any allotment of
land or money settlement in lieu ,of an allotment." And
the third is the express repeal of the provision just quoted
by the Act of December 19, 1910, c. 3, 36 Stat. 887. The
controversy turns chiefly upon the true construction and
effect of the provision of June 17 and the constitutional
validity of the repealing provision of December 19. These
questions are to be solved in the light of the following
facts:
A patent was not issued to Rowell. He asked for one,
but, at the suggestion of the chairmen of the Committees
on Indian Affairs in the Senate and House of Representatives, the President, in whose name such patents are
issued, withheld his signature from the patent and directed
that nothing be done until Congress could further consider
the matter. Congress was not then in session and when
it reconvened the matter was again considered, with the
result that the provision in the Act of June 17 was repealed.
The tract in controversy was part of a large reservation
established by treaties in 1868 as a permanent home for
the Kiowa, Comanche and Apache Indians. 15 Stat. 581,
589. In 1901 the members of these tribes were given
allotments in severalty in this reservation and the greater
part of the remaining lands was disposed of by the United
States,,-what was deemed to be their fair value being
credited to the Indians as a trust fund. 31 Stat. 676, c.
813, ยง 6. At that time a portion of the reservation, embracing the tract in controversy, was set apart for school
purposes for these Indians, and this school reserve is still
maintained and used for their benefit. The tribal relation
of these Indians has not been terminated. They are still
in a state of pupilage and under the control of the United
States. It retains the title to their allotments and administers their tribal affairs and property.
James F. Rowell is a white man who went to the large

UNITED STATES v. ROWELL.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

reservation as an Indian trader in 1899 and has since
lived with these Indians. He is a physician and has practiced among them. In 1903 he married a Kiowa woman
and in 1909 was adopted as a member of the tribe. His
wife received an allotment from the tribal lands in 1900
and some of their-children received allotments in 1906 or
1908. 34 Stat. 214, c. 2580, ยง 6; 35 Stat. 456, c. 216, ยง 24.
But no allotment had been made to him when the provision of June 17, 1910, was enacted. It was enacted at his
solicitation, and the Committees on Indian Affairs in the
Senate and House of Representatives, in recommending
its repeal, reported that it was enacted in the belief that
the tract described was of no greater value than the
average of those allotted to other members of th6 tribe, or
than other tracts still subject to allotment, when in truth
it was of vastly greater value; and that misrepresentation
and deception were practiced by Rowell in securing the
legislation. Senate Report No. 924 and House Report
No. 1741, 61st Cong., 3rd sess. About two years before,
the south half of the same section-three hundred and
twenty acres-had been sold for townsite purposes under
the Act of March 27, 1908, c. 106, 35 Stat. 49, for upwards of $250,000.
In June, 1911, six months after the date of the repealing
act, Rowell entered upon the tract in controversy and
since then has remained in possession, although promptly
notified, through the Indian Agent, that he was a trespasser and must vacate the premises. One of the defendants is Rowell's wife and another is the wife of a lawyer
who assisted him in securing the passage of the provision
which Congress felt called upon to repeal. She holds a
deed from. Rowell made after the date of the repealing
act and purporting to convey to her an undivided one-half
interest in the' tract for a recited consideration of
$50,000. The three defendants had come to be in possession when the action was begun. In the District Court

. OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

there was a directed verdict and a judgment for the
defendants.
Congress was here concerned with the affairs of Indians whose tribal relation had not been dissolvedIndians who were still wards of the United States and
entitled to look to it for protection. The plan of giving
them individual allotments in the reservation theretofore
established as a tribal home and of converting the surplus
lands into interest-bearing funds was not theirs. But it
was obligatory on them, because it was adopted by Congress in the exercise of its control over them. As in other
instances, the wish of the ward had to yield to the will of
the guardian. And Congress was free to exert this guardianship in any maflner which it deemed appropriate, and
to adjust its action to new or changing conditions, so long
as no fundamental right was violated.'
In view of the scope of this power, as reflected. by over
a century of practice and by the decisions of this court,
we 'think it was quite admissible for Congress to give effect
to Rowell's 'status as an adopted member of the tribe, to
recognize his claim to an allotment out of the tribal lands,
to designate the land which he should receive and to direct
that it be conveyed to him by a patent in fee without
awaiting the expiration of the usual trust period of twentyfive years. And if, before that direction was complied
with, it was discovered that the land designated was
lawfully devoted to a special use from which it could not
be withdrawn with due regard for the tribe in general,
or that its situation and value were such that to allot or
to convey it to him would invest him with much more
than a fair distributive share of the common property of
the tribe, we think it was equally admissible for Congress
Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445, 488; Cherokee Nation v.
Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294, 307; Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553,
564; Gritts v. Fisher, 224 U. S. 640, 648; Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665,
671; Sizemore v. Brady, 235 U. S. 441, 449.

UNITED STATES v. ROWELL.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to recall that direction in the interest of the tribe as a
whole. At most that direction was but an exertion of the
administrative control of the Government over the tribal
property of tribal Indians, and was subject to change by
Congress at any time before it was carried into effect.
Gritts v. Fisher,224 U. S. 640, 648. If the rule were otherwise and the quarter-section upon which the Indian school
buildings are situate had been inadvertently designated
as the land which he should receive, the situation might
have been one of great embarrassment. See United States
v. Des Moines Navigation & Railway Co., 142 U. S. 510,
544; United States v. Old Settlers, 148 U. S. 427, 466;
Cooley's Const. Lim., 7th ed. 257-259.
But it is insisted that the provision of June 17, 1910, was
a grant in praesenti and operated in itself to pass the full
title to Rowell, and therefore that he had a Vested right
in the land which the repealing act could not affect-. If
the premise be right the conclusion is obviously so. But
is the premise right? Of course, a grant may be made by a
law as well as by a patent issued pursuant to a law, but
whether a particular law operates in itself as a present
grant is always a question of intention. We turn, therefore, to the provision relied upon to ascertain whether it
discloses a purpose to make such a grant, that is to say,
a purpose to pass the title immediately without awaiting
the issue of a patent. We find in it no words of present
grant, but only a direction to the Secretary of the Interior "to issue a patent in fee" to Rowell for the tract
described. Only through this express provision for a patent
do we learn that a grant is intended, and if it were eliminated nothing having any force would remain. This, 'we
think, shows that a present statutory grant was not intended, but only such a grant as would result from the
issue of a patent as directed. The cases cited as making
for a different conclusion are plainly distinguishable in
that they deal with laws or treaties making grants and

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S..

either containing no provision for a patent or providing
for one merely by way of further assurance.
It is also insisted that, by applying for a patent before
the provision therefor was repealed, Rowell accepted that
provision and thereby acquired a right to have it carried
into effect of which he could not be divested by the repealing act consistently with due process of law. But the provision did not call for an acceptance and it is evident that
none was contemplated, other than such as would be implied from taking the patent when issued. Besides, statutes
of this type are not to be regarded as proposals by the
Government to enter into executory contracts, but as
laws which are amendable and repealable at the will of
Congress, save that rights created by carrying them into
effect c'annot be divested or impaired. Gritts v. Fisher,
224 U. S. 640, 648; Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665, 671;
Sizemore v. Brady, 235 U. S. 441, 449. A case much in
point is Levey v. Stockslager, Commissioner, 129 U. S. 470.
The facts out of which it arose are these: By an Act of
March 2, 1867, Congress confirmed to the widow and
children of a deceased claimant the one-sixth part, amounting to 75,840 acres, of an old land claim, and then, after
reciting that the Governnient had appropriated the land
to other purposes, directed the Commissioner of the General Land Office to issue to the widow and children certificates of location in eighty-acre lots locatable upon public
lands at any land office, in lieu of their asserted interest
in the old claim. Four days later the widow and children
requested the Commissioner to issue the certificates, but
the request was not complied with. On the 30th of the
same month Congress by a joint resolution,, approved by
the President, directed that the execution of the act be
suspended, and the suspension was not subsequently
removed. The widow and children contended that in
view of what was done they were entitled, in a contractual
sense, to the certificates and had acquired a vested right

UNITED STATES v. ROWELL,
243 V. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to them of which they could not be deprived by the joint
resolution without denying them due process of law. But
both phases of their contention were denied, it being said
in the course of the opinion that "the whole thing remained in fieri, and subject to the control of Congress,"
that "there was here no contract between the United
States and the widow and children" in the sense contended, that the joint resolution "did not deprive the
widow and children of any property, or right of property,
in violation of the Constitution," and that "the transaction
was merely the ordinary one of a direction by statute to
a public officer to perform a certain duty, and a subsequent direction to him by statute, liefore he had performed that duty or had entered upon its performance,
not to perform it."
For these reasons we conclude that the repealing provision was valid, and that while it did not affect Rowell's
status as an adopted member of the tribe or his right to
obtain in the usual way an allotment from the tribal
lands not specially reserved, it did revoke the special
provision made in his behalf in the Act of June 17, 1910.
It results that the verdict, instead of being directed for
the defendants, should have been directed for the Government as was requested. This requires that the judgment
be reversed and the cause remanded for a new trial.
Judgment reversed.

