OCTO3ER TERM, 1916.
Counsel for Parties.

243 U. S.

CHICAGO & ALTON RAILROAD COMPANY ET
AL. v. McWHIRT.
ERROR TQ THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 714.

Argued January 29, 30, 1.917.-Decided March 26, 1917.

A provision in the special charter of a railroad company permitting the
grantee to lease its road to any other railroad company "upon such
terms as may be mutually agreed upon" is not to be construed as
authority for the lessor and lessee to determine what shall be their
respective liabilities to third persons who may be tortiously injured
in the operation of the road when leased; therefore it creates no contract right which would be impaired by subsequent general legislation rendering the lessor and lessee jointly liable for such torts when
committed by the latter, and this quite apart from any power of the
legislature to alter or amend the charter.
A state law rendering any railroad compariy of the State leasing its
road to a company of another State liable jointly with the lessee for
actionable torts of the latter committed in the operation of the road,
does not deprive of due process or deny the equal protection of the
laws.
When the plaintiff pleads a case of joint liability under the state law
against a resident and a nonresident defendant, the case is not removable from the state to the federal court in the absence of any
showing that the defendants were joined fraudulently for the purpose of preventing removal.
187 S. W. Rep. 830, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Elliott H. Jones, with whom Mr. William C. Scarritt,
Mr. Charles M. Miller, Mr. Alfred M. Seddon, Mr. Edward S. North and Mr. E. L. Scarritt were on the briefs,
for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Patrick Henry Cullen, with whom Mr. Thomas T.
Fauntleroy and Mr. Charles M. Hay were on the brief,
for defendant in error.

,CHICAGO & ALTON R. R. CO. v. McWHIRT.
24a U. S.

423

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This was an action to recover for personal injuries
caused, as was alleged, by negligently backing an engine
and cars across a public street in Vandalia, Missouri,
without taking any precautions for the safety of persons
using the street at the time. The action was against
two railroad companies, one incorporated in Missouri and
the other in Illinois. The former had constructed and
still owned the railroad and the latter was operating it
under a lease. A trial resulted in a judgment for the plaintiff, and this was affirmed. 187 S. W. Rep. 830.
The Missouri company was created by a special act in
1859, Laws 1859, p. 400, which was amended, with the
company's consent, by special acts in 1868 and 1870,
Laws 1868, p. 97; Laws 1870, p. 93. A general and older
statute provided that all subsequent corporate charters
should be "subject to alteration, suspension and repeal,
in the discretion of the Legislature," Rev. Stats. 1855,
p. 371, ยง 7; but these special acts declared that this provision should have no application to them or to the Missouri company. After the Act of 1859 and before it was
amended the State adopted a new constitution containing
a provision that corporations, other than for municipal
purposes, could .be formed only under general laws and
that these might be altered, amended or repealed; but
under the local decisions it is doubtful at least that this
provision was applicable to subsequent amendments of
charters previously granted, State ex rel. Circuit Attorney
&c. v. Cape Girardeau & State Line R. R., 48 Missouri,
468; St. Joseph & Iowa R. R. Co. v. Shambaugh, 106
Missouri, 557, 569; County of Callaway v. Foster, 93 U. S.
567, 570, and so it may be put out of view. The amendment of 1870, which took effect on March 20th of that
year, authorized the Missouri company to lease its road

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

for a period of years to any other railroad company "upon
such terms as may be mutually agreed upon." March 24
of the same year a general statute was enacted which, as
locally interpreted, renders any railroad company of that
State leasing its ,oad to a company of another State liable
jointly with the lessee for any actionable tort of the latter
committed in the operation of the road. Laws 1870,
p. 91, ยง 2; Brown v. Louisiana & MissouriRiver R. R. Co.,
256 Missouri, 522, 534. Following this enactment the
Missouri company leased its road to the Illinois company,
and it was under this lease that the latter was operating
the road when the plaintiff was injured. In the lease the
lessee agreed to pay off and satisfy all lawful claims for
damages arising out of its negligence or dereliction of duty
while operating the road.
The general statute of March 24, 1870, now embodied
in Rev. Stats. 1909, ยง 3078, was applied in this case over
the Missouri company's objection that it could not be
so applied without bringing it in conflict with the contract
clause of the Constitution of the United States and with
the due process and equal protection clauses in the Fourteenth Amendment. The overruling of this objection and
the denial of a petition for removal to the federal court
are the matters to be reviewed here.
In invoking the contract clause the Missouri company
goes upon the theory that the special acts constituting
its corporate charter broadly authorized it to lease its
road to any other railroad company upon any terms which
might be agreeable to both and that, in the absence of a
reservation of power to alter, amend or repeal the charter,
a later statute qualifying the authority to lease or attaching any condition to its exercise-as by making the company liable for the torts of the lessee committed in conducting the road-necessarily impairs the obligation of
the charter contract. While not doubting that any lawful contract contained in the charter is within the pro-

CHICAGO & ALTON R. R. CO. v. McWHIRT.
243 U. S.

425

Opinion of the Court.

tection of the clause invoked, Stone v. Mississippi, 101
U. S. 814, 816-817, we find nothing in the charter respecting the liability of the Missouri company for torts
committed by another company to which it commits
the operation of its road under a lease. That subject is
not dealt with in the charter in any way. The provision
that the leasing may be upon such terms as are mutually
agreeable to the parties is not in point, for it obviously
relates to matters which appropriately can be left to the
lessor and lessee, such as their rights and duties as between
themselves, and not to matters of public concern, such as
the rights of third persons to recover for injuries sustained

through the negligent operation of the road under the
lease. As to the latter we think it is plain that no contract
was intended or made by the State and that the matter
remained open to legislative ,action when the provision
in the Act of March 24, 1870, was adopted. Texas &
New Orleans R. R. Co. v. Miller, 221 U. S. 408; St. Louis
& San FranciscoRy. Co. v. Mathews, 165 U. S. 1; Chicago
& Alton R. R. Co. v. Tranbarger,238 U. S. 67, 76.
That provision was in force when the lease was made.
It is not inherently arbitrary, is found in the laws of other
States, and applies to all railroad companies of Missouri
which lease their roads to companies of other States. In
these circumstances it neither deprives the Missouri company of its property without due process of law nor denies
to it the equal protection of the laws.
The plaintiff was a citizen of Missouri and, as before
stated, one of the defendants was an Illinois corporation.
The latter sought to remove the case against it into the
federal court upon the ground that the same involved a
distinct and separable controversy between citizens of
different States. But the petition for removal was denied,
and rightly so. Under the local law the, case stated in tfe
plaintiff's pleading was one of joint liability on the part
of the defendants and, for the purpose of passing upon the

OCTO3ER TMRM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

petition for removal, this was decisive of the nature of
the contro ersy, there being no showing that the defendants were fraudulently joined for the purpose of preventing a removal. Alabama Great Southern Ry. Co. v. Thompson, 200 U. S. 206, 213, et seq.; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co.
v. Cockrell, 232 U. S. 146, 152.
Judgment affirmed.

BUNTING v. STATE OF OREGON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OREGON.
No. 38. Argued April 18, 1916; restored to docket for reargument June 12,
1916; reargued January 19, 1917.-Decided April 9, 1917.
Section 2 of the General Laws of Oregon, 1913, c. 102, p. 169, providing
that "No person shall he employed in any mill, factory or manufacturing establishment in this State more than ten hours in any
one day, except watchmen and employees when engaged in making
necessary repairs, or in case of emergency, where life or property is
in imminent danger.; provided, .however, employees may work overtime not to exceed three hours in any one day, conditioned that
payment be made for said overtime at the rate of time and one-half
of the regular wage," is construed as in purpose an hours of service
law and as such is upheld as a valid health regulation.
Whether the law could be upheld as a regulation of wages is not considered or decided.
While mere legislative declaration can not give character to a law or
turn illegal into legal operation, the court will not ascribe to the legislature an intent to disguise an illegal purpose or the improvidence
of effecting one thing while intending another when, as in this case,
the purpose as declared in the act (ยง 1) and confirmed by the state
court is legal and the provisions of the act can be accommodated to
it.
The provision for overtime and extra pay is in nature a penalty to
deter from excess of the ten-hour limit.
In sustaining a state law passed in the exercise of an admitted power

