OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

possible incident, necessary to prevent waste, of the primary public use. Furthermore if there are likely to be
such sales, nothing appears sufficient to take the case out
of the scope of a recent decision of this court. Mt. VernonWoodberry Cotton Duck Co. v. Alabama InterstatePower Co.,
240 U. S. 30, 32.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. DAVIS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
No. 621.

Submitted April 11, 1917.-Decided April 23, 1917.

When the trial court besides holding the indictment defective for not
following the language of the statute bases its decision also upon the
ground that the statute does not apply to the facts alleged the decision as to the latter grpund is reviewable under the Criminal Appeals
Act.
A deputy clerk of the District Court of Hawaii who converts to his
own use fees deposited by litigants to secure the payment of costs
*in bankruptcy and other cases is punishable under'§ 97 of the Penal
Code.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Warren for the United
States.
No brief filed for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an indictment of a deputy clerk of the District
Court of Hawaii for converting to his own use moneys of

UNITED STATES v. DAVIS.

243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

persons other than the United States, deposited with the
clerk to secure the payment of costs, by parties to proceedings other than proceedings in bankruptcy (counts
1, 3, 4, 7, 8) or by parties to proceedings in bankruptcy
(counts 2, 5, 9). The sixth count charges the defendant,,
as clerk, with a like conversion. A demurrer to the indictment was sutained and the United States brings the
case here. The judge assumed that the costs referred to
inthe several counts were fees of the clerk and, we presume, in case of proceedings in bankruptcy, fees collected
for the referee and trustee, and also that the funds were
funds to be accounted for by the clerk as debtor, not as
trustee, under the decision in Uniied States v. Mason, 218
U. S. 517, 531. He therefore was of opinion that the
money was not within the purview of § 99 of the Penal
Code, punishing the embezzlement of money belonging in
the registry of the court, etc. The same reasoning led
him to the conclusion that § 97 did not apply and it is
the latter proposition that the United States seeks to
have revised.
The judge objected that the charges in the indictment
did not follow the language of § 97, but as he went on to
consider whether the statute applied to the facts alleged
we shall deal with the, latter question. Concerning the
sufficiency of the indictment in other aspects of course
we have'nothing to say. By § 97 "any officer of the United
States, or any assistant of such officer, who shall embezzle
or wrongfully convert to his own use any money or property which may have come into his possession or under
his control in the execution of such office or employment,

.

. whether the same shall be the money

or property of the United States or of some other person
or party, shall, where the offense is not otherwise punishable by some statute of the United States," be fined or
imprisoned or both. If, as assumed, the defendant was
not punishable under § 99 he was punishable under this.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

243 U. S.

As pointed out by the Government the court below seems
to have overlooked the fact that except in the sixth count
the defendant is alleged to have been an assistant clerk,
not the clerk. Whether it belonged to the United Stateg
or to the clerk the money was not his and the case is within
the words just quoted from the act. We confine our decision to the point raised by the assignment of error;
upon that the decision was wrong.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

dissents for the reasons given

by Judge Morrow.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. LORICK.
ERROR, TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 762.

Argued April 10, 1917.-Decided April 23, 1917.

In an action in a state court under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, it was in evidence that the employee, in the line of his duty,
was injured in an effort to raise a coupler without the aid of a jack;
that a jack was the proper appliance for such work; that he had requested one of his superior repeatedly on former like occasions and
that it had been promised him a few weeks before the accident. The
court below having affirmed the action of the trial court in refusing
to direct a* verdict for defendant upon the grounds of assumption
of risk and absence of negligence, Held; that there was no clear and
palpable error such as would justify this court in disturbing the
verdict for the plaintiff. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Whitacre,
242 U. S. 169, 171.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. B. S. Lyles for plaintiff in error.

