CASES ADJUDGED

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 191G..

TYRRELL, ADMINISTRATRIX OF TYRRELL, v.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.,
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 54.

Argued November 1, 1916.-Deoided March 6, 1917.

It-is the duty of this court to dismiss a certiorari upon discovering that
the question which induced the issuance of the writ does not arise on
the record. Furness, Withy & Co. v. Yang-Tsze Insurance Association, 242 U. S. 430.
Petitioner's intestate was killed by an explosion of gas while making
repairs in a school building of the District of Columbia. Damages
were recovered in the'Supreme Court of the District and the judgment was reversed by. the Court of Appeals. This court issued a
certiorari upon the assumption (induced by a misconception of
counsel) that the decision, in possible conflict with decisions of this
court, proceeded on the theory that the municipality could not be
held for positive, torts committed by its agents while discharging
its public or governmental duties. Examination of the record proving that no exception was taken by plaintiff to the. rulings of the'
trial court in this regard and that the decision of the appellate court
(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

turned on its conclusion that the evidence was msufficient to establish a nuisance as the cause of the accident, Held, that the certiorari
must be dismissed.
Writ of certiorari to review 41 App. D. C. 463, dismissed.

The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Levi H. David and Mr. Alexander Wolf for petitioner.
Mr. Percival H. Marshall and Mr. Conrad H. Syme for
respondent.
MR. CHrIF JusTicB WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
We state only so much of the case as is essential to an
understanding of the disposition which we are constrained
to make of it.
The action was commenced in May, 1912, by the petitioner as administratrix of the estate of her husband to
recover from the District of Columbia as a municipal
corporation, damages suffered as the result of his wrongful
death in September, 1911. Briefly, it was alleged that the
District had contracted to make an addition to a school
building to it belonging known as the McKinley Manual
Training School and to put in order and adjust the boilers
in the basement of the old building, and that while the
deceased was engaged under a sub-contractor in doing the
latter work, he was killed by an explosion of illuminating
gas which had escaped from the gas pipes which were in
the basement. It was alleged that the gas had been permitted to escape and remain in the basement through the
neglect and. wrongful conduct of the municipality or its
agents. The averments as to the negligence of the municipality both in permitting the escape of the gas and as to
allowing it to remain after notice of the dangerous condi-

TYRRELL v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion, and as to the absence of neglect on the part of the
plaintiff's intestate were ample. There was a subsequent
amendment to the petition alleging facts which it was
averred established that the conduct of the District as
to the escape and failure to remove the gas was equivalent
to the creation by it of a public nuisance. The defense
was a general denial and a special plea setting up a release
on the part of the plaintiff, which latter on demurrer was
stricken out. There was a verdict and judgment in favor
of the plaintiff and an appeal was taken by the defendant
municipality. The Court of Appeals reversed the judgment and remanded with directions to grant a new trial,
one member of the court dissenting. The appellee, alleging
that the case in her favor could not be bettered at a new
trial, asked that a final judgment be entered upon the
theory that the case would be then susceptible of review
in this court on error. On the refusal of this prayer a
petition for. certiorari was here presented.
The basis asserted for the application for certiorari was
that the court below, disregarding a decisive line of decisions by this court holding that a municipality, the District
of Columbia, was responsible for positive torts committed
by its servants or agents in the course of their employment under the application of the rule respondeat superior,
had mistakenly decided that such decisions were not controlling because that principle had no application when
the servants or agents of a municipality represented it
in the discharge of duties which were governmental or
public in character as contradistinguished from mere
municipal duties,-a ruling from which it was deduced
that in the former situation a wrong suffered by an individual, however grievous, was not susceptible of redress because the wrongdoer, the municipality acting
through its agents, was beyond the reach of courts of
justice. Besides, it was declared that although the court
proceeded upon the assumption that the doctrine which

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S

it announced was not in conflict with the previous decisions of this court, that assumption was obviously a mistaken one, since the case principally relied upon by the
court to sustain the doctrine which was applied had in
express terms declared that the principle announced was
in conflict with a previous decision of this court, which
decision was wrong and would therefore not be applied.
The existence of the ground thus statea in the petition
for the writ was not challenged in the opposition filed by
the respondent, although the correctness of the legal
propositions relied upon and the significance of the previous decisions of this court were disputed.
As on the face of the opinion of the court below the
reasoning apparently justified the inference that the situation was as stated in the petition for certiorari, the prayer
for the writ was granted. When, however, we come to a
close examination of the record on the submission of the
case on its merits, we discover that the question upon
which the certiorari was prayed under the circumstances
previously stated does not arise on the record and is not
open for consideration, and therefore (of course, we assume,
through inadvertence of counsel) the petition for certiorari was. rested upon a wholly unsubstantial and nonexisting ground,-a conclusion which will be at once
demonstrated by the statement which foflows:
At the trial the court in express terms charged the jury
that "for a mere act of isolated negligence the municipality
of the District of Columbia would not be responsible, no
matter what the result of the isolated act of negligence was.
The District in this action, if responsible at all, can only be
responsible upon the theory that the death . . . resulted
from the maintenance of a nuisance, in the first place,
and secondly that the District of Columbia maintained
the nuisance." And this was followed in the charge by a
definition of what in the lawwould constitute a nuisance.
To this charge as to non-liability of the city for any act

TYRRELL v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of negligence whatever under the circumstances, unless
there was a public nuisance, no exception whatever was
taken by the plaintiff, the only exception on the subject
being that reserved by the defendant to the charge that
there would be a liability even in case of a public nuisance.
The case therefore on the appeal below (except as to subjects having no relation to the doctrine of municipal
liability) involved only the question of liability in case of
a public nuisance and raised no question concerning the
correctness of the ruling that the municipality was not
liable for an act of individual negligence because the work
which was being done when the accident occurred involved the discharge of a governmental as distinguished
from a municipal duty. It is true that in the reasoning of
its opinion the court below stated what it deemed to be
the correct theory concerning the division of the functions
of a municipality, in one of which it had power to inflict
a positive wrong without redress, and made reference to
state cases deemed to establish this-doctrine and a decision
of this court which it said was argued at bar to establish
to the contrary. But this was only reasoning deemed by
the court to throw light upon its conclusion on the subject which was before it, that is, whether there was liability
on the part of a municipality for a public nuisance as an
exception to the general rule of its non-liability for a
wrong done when in the exercise of a governmental function, and as a prelude to the grouhd upon which the judgment rendered was rested, that is, that there was no
evidence tending to support the conclusion that the facts
constituted a public nuisance.
In this view it is plain that if we differed from the conclusion of the court below on the subject of the tendencies
of the proof as to the nuisance, we would not be at liberty
as an original question to consider and dispose of the
alleged contention concerning the governmental function
and the resulting non-liability for a wrong done by a

OCTOBER TERM, i916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

municipality, since that question under the state of the
record was not before the lower court and would not be
open for our consideration, as no exception concerning
the ruling of the trial court on that subject was taken so
as to preserve a review concerning it. As it follows that
the certiorari was improvidently granted as the result
of a misconception of the parties as to the state of the
record and the questions open, it follows that the case
comes directly within the rule announced in Furness,
Withy & Company v. Yang-Tsze Insurance Association,
242 U. S. 430, and our duty is to dismiss the certiorari,
thus leaving the judgment of the court below unaffected
by the previous order granting the writ.
Dismissed.

WELLSVILLE OIL COMPANY v. MILLER, nde
EVERETT, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 541.

Argued December 6, 1916.-Decided March 6, 1917.

A controversy in a state court involving the power of the United States
Court of the Indian Territory to authorize and approve a lease of an
Indian allotment subject, however, to the condition that it be approved also by the Secretary of the Interior before becoming operative; and involving also the validity and effect of such a lease so
judicially authorized and approved but disapproved by the Secretary,
and the power of the SeCretary to disapprove it, Held, reviewable
in this court, as concerning matters inherently federal.
The United States Court for the Indian Territory in authorizing the
guardian of a Cherokee minor to lease her allotment, conditioned the
authority upon the approval of the lease by the Secretary of the Interior and ordered the guardian to report the lease when executed

