DONOHUE v. VOSPER.
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

DONOHUE v. VOSPER ET AL.
,ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 445. Argued January 26, 1917.-Decided March 6,.1917.
When it appears by the state -court's opinion that both parties relied
upon the construction and effect to be given a decree of a federal
court, and that the court applied it against one of them, rejecting
the construction relied on by the other, a federal question is presented which this court may determine on writ of error.
In a suit by the' United States to determine the title to certain land,
rival claims, arising independently under the public land laws and
based on facts existing before the litigation, were asserted by two
individuals on the one part and by two corporations on another.
One of the individuals had deeded to the other with warranty before
the' suit, and the second corporation had succeeded to the first during its progress. By consent of the United States and the individuals
a decree was entered declaring that the title at the commencement
of the suit was fully and completely vested in the first corporation
and, pending the suit, had become fully and completely vested in the
second, that neither the United States nor the individuals had any
right, title or interest in the land, that the title should be quieted in
the second corporation against the United States and the individuals,
and that the decree should operate as a release from the United
States and each of the individuals of all right and title to the land
and might be recorded as such in the county records.
Held, (1) That the decree should be construed, not as divesting any
interest of the individuals or affecting their relations inter sese, but
as adjudging that both were devoid of interest from before the beginning of the suit, and, consequeqtly,
(2) That the covenant of warranty between them attached by estoppel
to the title when afterwards acquired by the warrantor.
The. warrantor, having acquired the title, conveyed to the plaintiff in
error, the warrantee deeded part. of his interest to another, and
thereafter the plaintiff in error joined with the warrantee and the
latter's grantee in an option and lease of the property, reciting the
warrantee's interest. Held, that this was a practical construction of
the decree to the effect that it had not disturbed the warranty.
A decision by a state court against a claim of title by adverse possession,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

where the question is essentially local and dependent on an appreciation of evidence as to the conduct of parties, is not reviewable
by this court.
189 Michigan, 78, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. H. Ryall for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Dan H. Ball for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Suit to declare certain deeds to lands in Michigan to
be void, and that plaintiff in error (as he was plaintiff in
the court below we shall so refer to him) be declared to
be: the owner of the lands and of the minerals therein,
that defendants have no title thereto, for an accountifig
of certain royalties collected by certain of the defendants
from the Buffalo Iron Mining Company and that the
latter be restrained from paying any further royalties.
The lands are described as follows: W. Y of N. W. Y
and N. W. Y of S. W. Y, section 23, T. 43 N., R. 35 W.,
County of Iron, Michigan.
An answer, which was also claimed to be a cross bill,
was filed, and upon the issues thus formed, and after
hearing, the court by a decree dismissed the bill, adjudged
title to the land to be in the defendants Vosper, Abbott
and Tonkin in certain proportions and all the ores and
minerals therein, that title to the lands in the proportions
mentioned be quieted against plaintiff and all persons
claiming under him, that he execute a deed to Vosper,
Abbott and Tonkin of the interests decreed and in default
thereof the decree to operate as such release and conveyance.
The decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State.

DONOHUE v. VOSPER.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The facts of the case were found by the Supreme Court
substantially as follows:
The land was conveyed to the State of Michigan to
aid in the construction of two railroads, one to Marquette
and the other to Ontonagon. The land applicable to the
Marquette road was released by the State to the United
States and later, in 1866, under an act of Congress granting lands to the State for canal purposes, this land inured
to the benefit of the Lake Superior Ship Canal, Railway &
Iron Company by a grant from the State.
The land to be used for the benefit of the Ontonagon
road was not released and it was subsequently decided
that the title to an undivided one-half of the "common
lands "-that is, lands at the intersection of the proposed
railroads-still remained in the State for the .purposes
of that road, except as affected by an act of Congress of
1889 by which Congress declared a forfeiture of grants
in the State of Michigan for all unconstructed railroads
and confirmed title in all persons who had made cash
entries within the limits of the grants and all persons
claiming state selections, such as the Canal Company.
By an exception, in the act the title was not confirmed to
those lands on which there were bona fide preemption or
homestead claims asserted by actual occupation on
May 1, 1888.
Michael Donohue, plaintiff's grantor, together with
various other persons, had entered upon these "common
lands" as preemptors and homesteaders, and asserted
rights thereto under the Act of 1889 referred to above.
Prior to the Act of 1889 the Canal Company, brought
ejectment suits against those settlers. In 1894, in the
ejectment suits, it was decided that the title of the Canal
Company to the lands selected by the State was confirmed by theAct of 1889, subject to the exceptions provided in the act, and that it should be determined in an
equity suit in the United States court what lands came

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

within the excepting clause. It was also decided that
the title of the State to the lands granted for the Ontonagon road, including an undivided one-half of the
"common lands," was forfeited to the United States.
Defendant Vosper had rendered service in this litigation to Donohue and the otler claimants and took from
Donohue a warranty deed on December 29, 1894, to ani
undivided one-quarter interest in the land.
At the instigation of persons claiming under the Act
of 1889, the United States filed a bill agaidlst the Canal
Company. In that suit the Canal Company filed a cross
bill against the claimants under the, homestead and
piemption laws, including Donohue. Vosper was also
made a party. The issue in the litigation, therefore, was
whether Donohue and the other claimants were bona
fide homesteaders or preemptors on May 1, 1888.
Pending the suit the Canal Company conveyed to the
Keweenaw Association, Limited.
A decree was entered, Donohue and the other claimants
and Vosper consenting, quieting the title to the lands in
the Keweenaw Ass6ciation, Limited, as successor of the
Canal Company. The decree was entered in 1896 and
adjudged that the Canal Company. at the commencement
of the suit was fully and completely vested with the title
to the lands and since the commencement of the suit it
became fully and completely vested in said Keweenaw
Association, Limited, as successor of the Canal Company,
and that neither the United States of America nor any
of thedefendants consenting to the decree had "any right,
title, or interest therein." And it was adjudged that
title to the lands be quieted against the United States
and the consenting defendants and further that the decree
should operate as a release and conveyance from the
United States and each and every of the other of said.
defendants of all right and title to said lands and might
be recorded as such in the records of the proper county.

DONOHUE v. VOSPER.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

November 19, 1896, the Keweenaw Association, Limited,
conveyed the lands by quit-claim deed to Donohue.
It is the contention of Vosper that he and Donohue
agreed to this arrangement, by which a sum of money
was to be paid for the timber cut and the lands were to
be conveyed by the Keweenaw Association to Donohue.
December 3, 1896, Michael Donohue delivered to plaintiff a quit-claim deed to the premises and on April 3, 1908,
Vosper quit-claimed an undivided one-eighth interest to
defendant Abbott, and on December 18th following plaintiff joined with Vosper and Abbott in the execution and
delivery of an option for a mining lease of the premises.
February 3, 1909, Abbott quit-claimed an updivided
one-thirty-second interest in the minerals to Tonkin, and
on March 7, 1910, plaintiff joined Vosper, Abbott and
Tonkin in- the execution and delivery of a mining lease
in pursuance of the option given before.
The mining lease, which was for a term of 30 years,
was issued to the Niagara Iron Mining Company as lessee
and was by that company assigned to the Buffalo Mining
Company. The Niagara Company was and the Buffalo Company has been and is now in possession of the
premises for mining purposes.
The trial and supreme courts found that Donohue
executed the deed to Vosper. About this there is no
controversy. Here the contentions of the parties turn
upon the effect of the decree which was rendered by consent in the suit of the United States against the Canal
Company, and this makes, it is contended, a federal
question.
Defendants, however, assert that the decree does not
present a federal question and that, besides, it was not
claimed or urged as such by plaintiff in the state courts
but appears for the first time in the petition for writ of
error, and defendants refer to the bill of complaint to
sustain their assertion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

But the Supreme Court in its opinion declared that a
contention of plaintiff invoked "the effect of the decree
of the federal court." And, discussing the decree, the
court decided that its effect was "to oust Vosper from the
land, of which he had the actual or constructive possession
of an undivided quarter interest,-it appearing that Michael Donohue continued in possession of the undivided
one-half of the claim from the time of his original entry
until his quit claim deed to the complainant [plaintiff],
despite the alleged trespasses of the canal company and
its successor, which possession would inure to Vosper
under the warranty deed." And the court further said
that by the paramount title thus established in a third
party by the decree Vosper was evicted from his title and
possession and a "clear case for the application of the
doctrine of estoppel by warranty" is made in his favor.
The, decree, therefore, was made an element in the
decision against plaintiff, and it was claimed by him to
be an element in his favor. The motion to dismiss is,
therefore, denied.
The contention was in the state courts and is here that
the decree operated as a conveyance from Michael Donohue and Vosper to the Keweenaw Association and that
by virtue of its effect as a conveyance it released the
interest that Vosper had in the lands through the warranty
deed from Donohue to him and that no interest remained
in Vosper upon which an estoppel could rest. In other
words, that by the decree Vosper's interest passed to the
Keweenaw Association and from the latter to Michael
Donohue; and a number of cases are cited to show that
Vosper could make a conveyance of his interest and that
his grantee, in this case the Keweenaw Association, and
plaintiff through the latter, would take his interest.
The contention puts out of view a great deal that is
material in the situation. The suit in which the decree
was entered was one to determine whether the Canal

DONOHUE v. VOSPER.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Company or its grantee, the Keweenaw Association, had
derived title from, the United States or whether Donohue
had. Vosper was made a party because of the deed from
Donohue to him and the decree quieted title in the Keweenaw Association. If it had gone no further there
would probably be no dispute about its effect, but it declared that it should "stand and operate as a release and
conveyance from the United States, and each and every
of the other of said defendants, of all right and title to
said lands" and might "be recorded as such in the records
of the proper county." Standing alone these latter words
might have the effect for which plaintiff contended, but
they must be construed by what precedes them and by
the nature of the suit. This demonstrates that the decree
was but the clearing away of obstructions to the rights
of the Keweenaw Association and was not intended to
convey to it any interests the defendants had but left
unaffected whatever obligations existed between themselves. This is found by the Supreme Court of the State
and that Michael Donohue was paid a sum of money
by the Keweenaw Association for the timber cut upon
the land and the land was to be conveyed by the Keweenaw Association to Michael Donohue, leaving, as we
have said, the rights between him and Vosper unaffected,
and this is demonstrated by their subsequent relations.
On April 3, 1908, Vosper quit-claimed an undivided
one-eighth interest in the land to Abbott and in the following December plaintiff and Vosper and Abbott executed and delivered an option for a mining lease of the
premises and subsequently a lease in fulfillment of the
option to the Niagara Iron Mining Company for the term
of 30 years. The option and the lease recited that Vosper
was the owner of an undivided one-eighth interest in te
land.
It is further contended that plaintiff had acquired title
to the land by adverse possession, but the state courts

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

decided against the contention. This was essentially a
local question, involving an appreciation of the evidence
as to the conduct of the parties, and we cannot review it.

Decree affirmed.

THOMSEN ET AL., COMPOSING THE FIRM OF
THOMSEN & COMPANY, v. CAYSER ET AL.,
COMPOSING THE FIRM OF CAYSER, IRVINE &
COMPANY, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 2. Argued April 28, 29, 1914; restored, to docket for reargument
June 21, 1915; reargued January 19, 22, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.
For review in this court of a final judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals directing that an action be dismissed, the writ of error
should .go to that court; and its efficacy is not impaired by the circumstances that, before allowance of the writ by that court, the
trial court, obeying the mandate, has entered judgment of dismissal
and has adjourned for the term before any application has been
made to recall its action.,
When parties in the Circuit Court of Appeals, desiring to shorten the
litigation by bringing the merits directly to this court, consent that
a final judgment may be made against them in lieu of one remanding the cause for a re-trial, the consent is not a waiver of errors relied
on, and a final judgment entered as requested is reviewable here.
Foreign owners of steamship lines, common carriers between New
York and ports in South Africa, formed a combination, or "conference," to end competition among themselves and suppress it
from without. They adopted uniform net tariff rates, and, for the
purpose of constraining shippers to use their ships and avoid others,
exacted deposits ("primage") of ten per cent. of and in addition to
the net freight charges, to be repaid as rebates or "commissions"
in. each ca upon the lapse of a period of many moniths, but then

