OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

decided against the contention. This was essentially a
local question, involving an appreciation of the evidence
as to the conduct of the parties, and we cannot review it.

Decree affirmed.

THOMSEN ET AL., COMPOSING THE FIRM OF
THOMSEN & COMPANY, v. CAYSER ET AL.,
COMPOSING THE FIRM OF CAYSER, IRVINE &
COMPANY, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 2. Argued April 28, 29, 1914; restored, to docket for reargument
June 21, 1915; reargued January 19, 22, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.
For review in this court of a final judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals directing that an action be dismissed, the writ of error
should .go to that court; and its efficacy is not impaired by the circumstances that, before allowance of the writ by that court, the
trial court, obeying the mandate, has entered judgment of dismissal
and has adjourned for the term before any application has been
made to recall its action.,
When parties in the Circuit Court of Appeals, desiring to shorten the
litigation by bringing the merits directly to this court, consent that
a final judgment may be made against them in lieu of one remanding the cause for a re-trial, the consent is not a waiver of errors relied
on, and a final judgment entered as requested is reviewable here.
Foreign owners of steamship lines, common carriers between New
York and ports in South Africa, formed a combination, or "conference," to end competition among themselves and suppress it
from without. They adopted uniform net tariff rates, and, for the
purpose of constraining shippers to use their ships and avoid others,
exacted deposits ("primage") of ten per cent. of and in addition to
the net freight charges, to be repaid as rebates or "commissions"
in. each ca upon the lapse of a period of many moniths, but then

THOMSEN v. CAYSER.
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

only if the shipper, up to the date set for repayment, had used the
vessels of the coalition to the exclusion of all competitors. In respect
of particular consignments the shipper's right to the refund was
made similarly dependent on the "loyalty" of his consignee to
vessels of the combination. The hold thus gained on shippers,
through the accumulation of their deposits, enabled the coalition
to maintain its tariff and custom, in general, while cutting rates with
competitors in particular cases by means of "fighting ships." Several important rivals were gathered into the combination from time
to time, and a virtual monopoly was effected. Held, that the combination violated the Sherman Act.
Common carriers are under a duty to compete, and are subject in a
peculiar degree to the policy of the Sherman Act.
A combination is not excusable upon the ground that it was induced
by good motives and produced good results.
The conduct of property embarked in the public service is subject to
the policies of the law.
The fact that the participants might have withheld the commercial
service they rendered, i. e., stayed'out of the business, can not justify
an unlawful combination.
A combination affecting the foreign commerce of this country and
put in operation here, is within the act although formed abroad;
and
Those who actively participate in managing the affairs of the combination in this country are liable under § 7 although they are not the
principals.
When more than a reasonable rate is exacted as a result of an unlawful combination, the excess over what was reasonable affords a basis
for the damages recoverable under § 7, and whether, and to what
extent, such rate was unreasonable are questions determinable by
the jury, on proper evidence and instructions.
When claims for damages for loss of custom are definitely stated, a
charge advising the jury that the burden of proof is on the plaintiff,
that they must not allow speculative damages, and that they are
not required to guess at amounts but should be able to calculate
them from the evidence, sufficiently guards against the danger of
supposititious profits being considered as an element of the verdict.
Semble, that a general verdict for an amount which equals a particular
claim of damages and interest may be assumed to have been responsive to that claim alone, although there were others which were
submitted to the jury.
Failure to give an instruction upon the burden of proving rates un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

243 U. S.

reasonable, held, at most a harmless error, in view of a painstaking
trial and careful instructions upon the estimation of damages.
The trial court in its sound discretion may allow a new cause of action
to be set up by amendment of the complaint.
190 Fed. Rep. 536, reversed.

Action, brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, by plaintiffs in error against defendants in error and others under
the Sherman Act to recover damages for injuries sustained
as the result of a combination in restraint of foreign trade.
The defendants, it is charged, being common carriers
between, New York and South African ports, did, under
certain company names, sometime prior to December,
1898, enter into a combination and conspiracy in restraint
of trade and commerce between New York and ports in
South Africa to be rendered effective by making certain
discriminations in rates of freight -to be charged which
were calculated to coerce and prevent plaintiffs and other
shippers and merchants similarly situated from employing such agencies and facilities of transportation as might
be afforded them by other common carriers.
For such purpose they united under the name of "The
South African Steam Lines" and distributed a circular 1
1

"THE SOUTH AFRICAN STEAM LINES.

"Notice to Shippers in the United States.
"Commission in Respect of Shipments by Steam and Sailing Vessels.
"London, 31st December, 1898.
"1. Shippers to all Ports of the Cape Colony and of Natal, and to
Delagoa Bay, are hereby informed that until further notice, and subject to the conditions and terms set out herein each of the under-named
Lines will pay Shippers by their Line a commission of ten per cent.,
calculated upon the net amount of freight at tariff rates received by
such Line from such Shippers on their shipments from the United States
to South Africa.
"2. The said Commission to be computed every six months up to
the 31st January and 31st July in each year, and to be payable nine
months after such respective dates to those shippers only who, until

THOMSEN v. CAYSER.
243 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

(Exhibit A) promising to pay shippers by their lines 10%
upon the net amount of freight at tariff rates received on
shipments from the United States to Africa, the commission to be computed every six months up to the thirtyfirst of January and the thirty-first of July in each year
and to be payable nine months after such respective
dates, but only to shippers who shipped exclusively by
their lines to certain African ports, and provided that the
shippers directly or indirectly have not made or have
not been interested in any shipments by other vessels.
The commission is not payable on the goods of any

consignee who directly or indirectly imports goods by vessels other than those dispatched by the combining lines.

These terms, it is charged, are against public policy and
in restraint of trade.
About the middle of the year 1901 the defendant
Deutsche Dampschiffahrts Gesellschaft, Hansa, and the
firm of Funch, Edye & Co., as its agent, offered to transthe date at which the Commission shall become payable shall have
shipped exclusively by vessels despatched by the undernamed Lines
respectively from the United States to Ports of the Cape Colony,
Natal, and Delagoa Bay, provided that such shippers, either as Principals or as Agents, have not directly or indirectly made or been interested in any shipments to any of the aforesaid Ports by vessels
other than those despatched by the under-named, and also provided
that the Statement of Claim for such commission shall be made in the
annexed form, within twelve months of the date of shipment, to the
Line which shall have carried the goods in respect of which the Commission is claimed.
"3. The above commission is not payable on the goods of any Consignee who directly or indirectly imports goods by vessels other than
those despatched by the under-named Lines.
"(Subscribed)

AMERICAN

& AFRICAN

UNION-CLAN LINE.

STEAMSHIP LINE.

"All previous notices to Shippers or Consignees with reference to
returns on Freight are cancelled.
"Note.-The above Commission will be payable to the Shippers
whose names appear on the Bills of Lading or to their Order."

OCTOBER TERM,. 1916.
Statement of the Case.

243 U. S.

port merchandise to South African ports at reasonable
rates and lower than those imposed by the other defendants. Thereupon the other defendants, for the purpose
of avoiding the competition of those carriers, accepted
them into the scheme and combination and there was
agreement between them to continue the monopoly, and
another circular was issued like the first, including only
the additional announcement that the Deutsche Dampschiffahrts Gesellschaft, Hansa, had been added as one
of the parties to the first-named agreement. The circular
is attached to the complaint as Exhibit B.
Subsequently the defendants adopted a verbal agreement that altered the circulars to the effect that the socalled "loyal" consignees could. collect the so-called rebates regardless of whether the shippers were also loyal;
but on the condition that where the shippers and consignees were both loyal the rebates .would be paid to the
shippers, while if the consignee alone were loyal the rebate would be paid by-the defendants in London direct
to the so-called loyal consignee.
Defendants have not dispatched steamers
to African
ports at stated and regular dates but have placed steamers
on berth to receive general cargo only at such times and
for such ports in South Africa as they deemed best for
their private gain and profit.
By reason of the monopoly so created by defendants,
shippers-among whom are plaintiffs-have been compelled to submit to hardships and inconvenience, and to
pay unreasonable and higher rates to such extent as to
leave at the present time in the possession of defendants
collectively, as'plaintiffs are informed, about one and
one-half million dollars representing the extortion of their
rates, and that of such amount £1,112, 7s. ld.has been
extorted from plaintiffs.
Two steamship companies, the Prince Line and the
Houston Line, have since the spring of 1902 offered to

THOMSEN v. CAYSER.
243 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

carry from the United States to- South African ports
merchandise for a reasonable and remunerative rate
lower than that exacted by defendants.
Defendants, to prevent such steamers from competing,
have, in addition to the terms imposed on the South
African trade by the circulars above mentioned, imposed
further conditions which, while they ostensibly reduced
the lower rate of freight and announced that defendants
would pay the greater difference arising therefrom, by
them called a special commission, they still exacted the
payment of the higher rates, by them called tariff rates,
at the time of shipment and imposed the following further
conditions: (1) Precedent to the payment of such difference
they require all shippers to be loyal to them. (2) Each
shipper to disclose the name of his consignee. (3) The
difference in rates to be computed only on those steamers
which would come into direct competition with the
steamers of either the Prince Line or the Houston Line,
called by defendants "fighting steamers." (4) The special
comnission or rebate to be granted only on limited
amounts of freight room, to be allotted at the will and
discretion of defendants, additional freight room to be
paid for at the higher rate under the conditions expressed
in the circulars.
These additional conditions are intended to further
restrain trade and in fact have prevented shippers who
had already shipped goods ,under the original conditions
imposed by the circulars from further exporting as much
merchandise to, South African ports at reasonable rates
offered other shippers.
To further secure the monopoly of the carrying trade
to such ports and oust competition defendants have
threatened to withhold and have withheld by. way of
forfeit the repayment of the so-called rebates from all
those, among whom are plaintiffs, so-called by them
"loyal shippers" and "loyal consignees," as aforesaid,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

243 U. S.

"who would not continue to remaip loyal under the additional conditions superimposed as aforesaid."
For illustration plaintiffs adduce two instances when
they were obliged to ay higher rates on a portion of the
shipments, which rates were higher than those offered by
the opposition lines, and defendants threatened, if plaintiffs made the shipments over the latter lines upon the
more favorable terms, to withhold from repaying plaintiffs all sums previously so compulsorily paid by plaintiffs.
Plaintiffs are informed and believe that since the opposition lines have offered to carry freight to South African
ports defendants have, by reason of their conspiracy,
refused to allot uniform and proportionate freight room
on their steamers and have arbitrarily discriminated between several shippers and even against the so-called
"loyal" shippers and consignees, with the unlawful intent that the moneys so held by them would be sufficient
security to prevent such shippers or consignees from
making shipments of or importing their goods by the
competing vessels.
By reason of the conspi1tcy plaintiff and others similarly situated have been compelled either not to ship at
all and to lose a great deal of their trade or to ship on
defendants' steamers a small portion of merchandise at
the lower rates and the remainder, of the same class and
even of the identical lot of merchandise, at the higher rates,
which is practically prohibitive of any trade whatever by
reason of the fact that the substantial difference between
the two rates would be a discrimination against the
various consignees and customers of plaintiffs and the
various shippers and customers of other shippers by the
same steamer.
The conspiracy violates the laws of the United States
and especially the Act of July 2, 1890, entitled "An Act
to Protect Trade and Commerce against unlawful Restraints and Monopolies."

THOMSEN v. CAYSER.
243 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Plaintiffs allege damages in the sum of £1,112, 7s. lid.,
equal to $5,560, for which they pray as the excess over a
reasonable rate, and the further sum of $10,000 damages,
and the trebling of these sums.
The defendants, by their company names, filed separate
answers in which they deny some of the allegations of the
complaint and admit others. They deny conspiracy and
combination for the purpose or with the effect set out in
the complaint. They admit the making and issuing of
the circulars designated A and B in the complaint, but
deny that they have the effect or were intended to have
the effect ascribed to them.
They admit the refusal to pay plaintiffs certain claims
as rebates, but deny the distinction between loyal shippers
and loyal consignees and all of the inferences and assertions in regard thereto.
As a separate defense they allege that all freight carried
by them for plaintiffs was carried on bills of lading, each
of which contained on its face the statement of the amount
of freight to be paid and in respect to which in every
instance plaintiffs either paid the freight or agreed to
pay the amount of freight stated in the bill of lading and
in each instance gave a due bill which was subsequently
paid; that the payments were made freely and voluntarily and without protest; and that so far as any of
the payments were made pursuant or with reference
to the printed circulars plaintiffs co6perated knowingly in such transactions and cannot now be entitled to
any relief on account of payments of freight made thereunder.
It was prayed that the complaint be dismissed.
Upon the issues thus formed there were two trials. At
the conclusion of the testimony on the first trial the court
considered that no cause of action was established under
the Sherman Law and upon motion of defendants dismissed the complaint. 149 Fed. Rep. 933.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

243 U. S.

The judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals (October, 1908). 166 Fed. Rep. 251.
Upon the return of the case to the Circuit Court it was
tried to a jury, resulting in a verdict for plaintiffs against
the defendants composing the firms of Cayser, Irvine &
Company; Barber & Company; and Norton & Son, the
action as to the other defendants having abated or been
dismissed by the court.
The judgment recites that the action was brought
under the Act of Congress of July 2, 1890, and that a
verdict had been rendered against the defendants above
named for the sum of $5,600, with interest in the sum of
$1,973.06, in all $7,573.06; that thereupon the court directed the clerk to treble the amount of the verdict pursuant to the terms of the act of Congress, making the
amount $22,719.18, and that, the parties consenting, the
court fixed $2,500 as an attorney's fee. The judgment
was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, one member
dissenting (July, 1911). 190 Fed. Rep. 536.
The Circuit Court at the first trial (Judge Hough sitting)
was of opinion that the testimony did not establish that
the combination charged against defendants was in unreasonable restraint of trade. The Circuit Court of Appeals expressed a different opinion. The court said that
the substance of the complaint was that defendants were
engaged as carriers in South African trade and had entered
into a combination in restraint of foreign trade and commerce in violation of the act of Congress by means of a
scheme under which they united as "The South African
Lines," fixed rates, and shut off outside competition by
requiring shippers to pay a percentage in addition to a
reasonable freight rate, which they should receive back in
case-and only in 'ase-they refrained from shipping by
other lines. And the court said the evidence showed the
existence of a "conference" for the purpose of fixing and
maintaining rates and a return "commission" to "loyal"

THOMSEN v. CAYSER.
243 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

shippers. The manifest purpose of the combination and
its effect were, it was further said, to restrain competition
and that it was therefore in contravention of the Federal
Anti-Trust Act.
The court considered that whether the restraint was
reasonable or unreasonable was immaterial under the
decisions of this court, or whether the combination was
entered into before or after plaintiffs commenced business,
the statute applying to continuing combinations, or
whether the combination was formed in a foreign country,
as it affected the foreign commerce of this country and
was put into operation here. And as the plaintiffs had
alleged damage, the court decided that they were entitled
to an opportunity to prove it and remanded the case to
the Circuit Court.
Upon the secohd appeal the court declared a change of
view, saying: "When this case was in this court before
we said, upon the authority of the decisions of the Supreme Court as we then interpreted them, that whether
the restraint of trade imposed by the combination in
question was reasonable or unreasonable was immaterial,"
and that it was "also apparent from the record that the
Circuit Court upon the second trial in holding as a matter
of law that the combination shown was in violation of
the statute, acted upon the same view of the law." And
further: "In the light of the recent decisions of the Supreme Court in the Standard Oil and Tobacco Cases, the
construction so placed upon the statute by this court and
the Circuit Court must be regarded as erroneous and a
new trial must be granted unless the contentions of the
parties are correct that, upon the facts shown, this court
can now determine the legality of the combination."
The court then said that it was impossible to hold that
the record disclosed a combination in unreasonable restraint of trade, but that it would be unduly prejudicial
to plaintiffs to reverse the judgment with instructions to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

243 U. S.

dismiss; that as the plaintiffs had presented their case
in view of the decision of the court that the reasonableness of the restraint was immaterial, it would be unjust
to them to dismiss the complaint because their proof did
not conform to another standard, and that upon another
trial the plaintiffs might be able to "produce additional
testimony tending to make out a case within the Supreme
Court decisions referred to." Accordingly, the court
remanded the case for a new trial.
Subsequently a rehearing was granted on petition of
plaintiffs, who waived any right to a new trial and consented that the case should be disposed of one way or the
other. As a result of the rehearing the mandate was recalled and the judgment reversed with instructions to
enter an order dismissing the complaint.
This writ of error was then allowed.
Mr. A. Leo Everett and Mr. Lorenzo Ullo for plaintiffs
inerror:Shippers are peculiarly at a disadvantage and carriers
are forbidden to subject them to unreasonable conditions.
Lockwood v. New York Central R. R. Co., 17 Wall. 357;
Menacho v. Ward, 27 Fed. Rep. 259. The maxim volenti
non fit injuriatherefore does not apply. The ten per cent.
payments were made under duress. Swift Company v.
United States, 111 U. S. 22. The parties were not in pari
delicto. Duval v. Wellman, 124 N. Y. 156; Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Texas & Pacific R. R., 52 Fed.
Rep. 187; Loder v. Jayne, 142 Fed. Rep. 1015. Tender of
goods and protest by plaintiffs, and refusal to carry by
defendants were unnecessary.
Unreasonable or coercive rates of freight are recoverable. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co.,
204 U. S. 426; Herserman v. Burlington, Cedar Rapids &
Northern Ry. Co., 63 Iowa, 732; Parker v. Great Western
R. R. Co., 7 M. & G. 253.

THOMSEN v. CAYSER.
243 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

All parties to the unlawful combination are liable in
solido. Atlanta v. Chattanooga Foundry, 127 Fed. Rep.
23; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Texas & Pacific
R. R., supra; Loder v. Jayne, supra.
Agents of principals are equally responsible in solido
with all parties to the illegal combination. See Leonard v.
Pool, 114 N. Y. 371.
The jury found that the ten per cent. exaction was an
unreasonable and coercive rate. There is no doubt that
the verdict was for the amount so exacted and paid, and
not for other items of damage which plaintiffs had claimed.
This establishes in-itself that the effect of the combination
was unreasonable. Noncompetitive rates are presumably
unreasonable, especially where the lack of competition
is the achievement of the party fixing the rate. China
and .JapanTrading Co. v. Georgia R. R., 12 I. C. C. 241;
Taft, J., as quoted with approval in Addyston Pipe &
Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211, 237; Menacho v.
Ward, supra.
That the Anti-trust Act was violated is plain under
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1; United
States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106; and Nash v.
United States, 229 U. S. 373. The court's reasoning in
the first of these cases is directed to the question whether
.the acts complained of, and claimed to have benefited the
trade, were reasonably to be held in restraint of trade;
whether they were within the condemnation of the statute, reasonably construed, considering the contracts or
agreements, their necessary effect, and the character of
the parties by whom they were made. But a "reasonable construction" of the statute is far different from an
examination into the reasonableness -of the restraint.
The examination into the reasonableness of the cause
of the restraint is what calls for a reasonable construction
of the statute. When by a reasonable construction of the
statute, the acts complained of are found to cause actually

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

243 U. S.

or potentially a restraint of trade within the meaning
of the prohibition, a further inquiry as to the reasonableness of its effect is immaterial.
This combination is not ani "aggregation of capital"
necessary for the development of trade; nor is it a unification of interests to cheapen freight rates or general expenses, but it is avowedly a combination to suppress
*competition among the constituents and keep away
outside competition, by coercive means. It is prejudicial
to the public interest of the United States. Nash v.
United States, supra;-United States v. Pacific & Arctic Ry.
& Nay. Co., 228 U. S. 87.
The doctrine of Mogul Steamship Line v. McGregor,
31 L. R. 554 (1888); 23 L. R. 598 (1889); 17 App. Cases,
25 (1891), was not approved by this c6urt in the Standard
Oil Case; it was based on the British legislative policy
of the time, and differs from the earlier common law as
inherited in this country and federalized by the Sherman
Act. Hooker v. Van DeWater, 4 Denio, 349; Stanton v.
Allen, 5 Denio, 434; Atchison v. Mallon, 43 N. Y. 147;
Elmira Coal Co. Case, 68 N. Y. 558; People v. Sheldon,
139 N. Y. 251; Lough v. Outeridge, 143 N. Y. 271. The
Mogul Case also involved a different scheme and a different cause of action.
Under the Sherman Act, contracts and combinations
which before the act were merely unenforceable as between the parties, became actionable and criminal. This
necessarily resulted, because the definition of combinations was expressed in terms which embraced those which
were. unlawful- but not actionable, such as the Mogul
combination. The British authorities seem to agree that
such a state of facts would, in the United States,: be interpreted as coming within the prohibition of the Sherman Act. See the reports of the Members of the Royal
Commission on Shipping Conferences in the Journal of
the Society of Comparative Legislation, New Series,

THOMSEN v. CAYSER.
243 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

vol. X (1909), p. 144, and Attorney General v. Adelaide
Steamship Co., A. C. (1913), 781.
The courts of this country hold, concurring in the
British view, that where a situation is governed by the
Sherman Act the Mogul Case is not applicable. United
States i. Trans-Missouri Freight Association, 166 U. S.
290; United States v. Addyston Pipe & Steel Co., 85 Fed.
Rep. 271, 286; Wheeler-Stenzel Co. v. National Window
Glass Association, 152 Fed. Rep. 864, 873.
On the evils of the "conferences" and deferred rebate
system, as practiced by British shipowners, and their use
of "fighting ships," see Report of Committee on Merchant Marine, 63d Cong., vol. IV, p. 307. The policy of
this country is recently and specifically expressed by the
Shipping Board Act of September 7, 1916, 39 Stat. 728.
Mr. Thomas Thacher and Mr. J. Parker Kirlin, with
whom Mr. Charles R. Hickox was on the briefs, for defendants in error:
Restraint of competition is restraint of trade only when
unfavorable to trade or commerce, and therefore unreasonable and prejudicial to the public interests. United
States v. Hamburg-American S. S. Line, 216 Fed. Rep.
971; United States v. Prince Line and United States v.
American-Asiatic S. S. Co., 220 Fed. Rep. 230; United
States v. United States Steel Co., 223 Fed. Rep. 55; Patterson v. United States, 222 Fed. Rep. 599; United States v.
United Shoe Machinery Co., 222 Fed. Rep. 349; United
States v. InternationalHarvester Co., 214 Fed. Rep. 987;
United States v. Keys"oe Watch Case Co., 218 Fed. Rep.
502. This is the view taken in the Powder Trust Case,
188 Fed. Rep. 339, 373. Such is the doctrine of this
court. Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1;
United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106;
United States v. Joint.Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505.
The history of the Sherman Act shows a clear intent

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

243 U. S.

on the part of Congress not to condemn contracts and,
combinations merely because they are in restraint of competition or merely because they operate to raise the cost
of commodities to consumers. See also its title: "To
protect trade and commerce." It looked to the development and increase of trade and commerce in the interest
of the public, to the removal of obstacles to its growth
and expansion. The combination must prejudice the
public interests either by unduly restricting competition
or by unduly obstructing the course of trade. Standard
Oil and Tobacco Cases, supra; Nash v. United States, 229
U. S. 373, 376; United States v. Terminal R. R. Association
of St. Louis, 224 U. S. 383; 236 U. S. 194; United States v.
Union PacificR. R. Co., 226 U. S. 61; EasternStates Retail
Lumber Dealers' Association v. United States, 234 U. S.
600, 609, 610.
Restriction of competition by the union of competing
carriers, or an obstruction, of the course of trade, is not
undue, unless the result is to injure the public, by decreasing the facilities open to the public for trade or commerce, leading to a diminution of exchange of commodities or less favorable conditions for the development of
trade or commerce. The emphasis is now put by the
decisions of this court upon the words "undue" and
"unreasonable," and these words are used with relation
to the public interest. That which is the ultimate concern
in the constitutional grant of power over commerce, and
in the exercise of such lower by the Anti-trust Act, is
the exchange and distribution of commodities.
This was recognized by Mr. Justice Peckham in" the
Joint Traffic Association Case, 171 U. S. 505. The paramount interest of the public is in the efficiency of the
service to the public in transporting freight and passengers in aid of commercial intercourse.
This is recognized in the St. Louis Terminal Association
Case, 224 U. S. 383, 394, and in the Union Pacific Case,

THOMSEN v. CAYSER.
243 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

226 U. S. 61, 88. See Attorney General v. Adelaide Steamship Co., A. C. (1913) 781.
The question arising in this case becomes substantially
the same as that which arose in the Mogul Steamship
Company Case, A. C. (1892), 25, although the courts there
dealt not with any statute, but with the common law.
Mogul Steamship Company Case, 21 Q. B. D. 544, 548.
See also North-Western Salt Co. v. Electrolytic Alkali Co.,
30 Law Times Rep. 313.
That to do business on the rebate or commission plan
is not to monopolize or attempt to monopolize, see In re
Corning, 51 Fed. Rep. 205; In re Terrell, 51 Fed. Rep.
213; In re Greene, 52 Fed. Rep. 104; Whitwell v. Continental Tobacco Co., 125 Fed. Rep. 454.
The burden was on the plaintiffs to prove an unlawful
combination. It was error for the trial court to assume
that an unlawful combination had been established as
matter of law.
The principals were not shown to have combined as
alleged; the evidence established the contrary. Neither
did it appear, by undisputed evidence, as it must to
justify the court's action, that the defendants (mere
agents) were parties to the assumed combination. They
had nothing to do with making any combination (whatever
was done in that respect was done abroad), and nothing
to do with the business except to carry-out instructions
from their London principals.
The assumed combination could not have been illegal
under the act because it was formed, if formed anywhere, beyond the jurisdiction of the United States. For
this proposition we need only refer to-American Banana
Co. v. United Fruit Co., 213 U. S. 347. If a partnership
or corporation had been formed to own and operate the
ships belonging to the original shipowners, there would
seem to be no room for doubt that its legality would not
be affected by the Sherman Act. If, so- uniting their

OCTOBER TERM, -1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

properties and business, these shipowners had done
business here in substantially the mode in which they
are alleged to have done it, there could be no charge of an
illegal combination or conspiracy under our law.
The proof showed that commerce was actually promoted.
There was no proof that plaintiffs were injured. This
was essential to a cause of action under § 7 of the act.
The Circuit Court erred in declining to charge the jury
that the burden was on the plaintiffs to show that the
rates were unreasonable; in not leaving the question of
combination to the jury; in permitting the jury to consider supposititious profits that the plaintiffs claimed they
would have made if they had followed a different course;
and in permitting the plaintiffs during the trial to amend
their complaint so as to set up a new cause of action.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion to dismiss the writ of error is made, two
grounds being urged: (1) The Circuit Court of Appeals
was without jurisdiction to allow the writ on March 15,
1912, for the reason that its judgment had become executed and the judgment entered thereoh in the Circuit
Court November 24, 1911, had become final and irrevobable before the petition for the writ was filed and the
order allowed. (2) The judgment of the Circuit Court
was entered in the form finally adopted at the request of
plaintiffs and by their consent, and the errors assigned by
plaintiffs were waived by such request and consent.
The argument to support the motion is somewhat
roundabout. It gets back to the Circuit Court and
charges that because that court had entered judgment
on the original mandate and had adjourned for the term
without any application having been made to recall that

THOMSEN v. CAYSER.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

judgment and because no writ of error to review it was
sought, the judgment became a final disposition of the
case.
We are not concerned with what the Circuit Court
might have done, but only with what the Circuit Court
of Appeals did and the jurisdiction it possessed. It re*ceived and granted a petition for rehearing, ordered a
recall of the mandate previously issued, set aside the
judgment of the Circuit Court, and remanded the case
with directions to dismiss the complaint. The plaintiffs
did not consent to a judgment against them, but only
that, if there was to be such a judgment, it should be
final in form instead of interlocutory, so that they might
come to this court without further delay.
Subsequently a petition for the writ of error was filed
and allowed and all further proceedings upon the part of
the defendants for the enforcement of the judgment were
suspended and stayed until the final determination by
this court upon the writ of error, in return to which the
record was properly furnished. Atherton v. Fowler, 91
U. S. 143.
The motion to dismiss is denied.
The case in the courts below had a various fate, victory
alternating between the parties but finally resting with
defendants.
The plaintiffs, dissatisfied, have brought the case here.
We are confronted at the outset, in view of the proceedings
in the courts below, with contentions as to what questions
of law or fact are before us.
Notwithstanding two trials and two appeals and reviews in the Circuit Court of Appeals, defendants insist
the facts are yet in controversy. We cannot assent.
It will be observed from the excerpts from the opinions
of the Circuit Court of Appeals that the case was decided
upon the proposition of law that the combination charged
against defendants was not in unreasonable restraint of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

trade and that such character was necessary to make it
illegal under the Federal Anti-trust Act. As to the fact
of combination and restraint and the means employed
both trial and appellate courts concurred, and their conclusion is not shown to be erroneous.
There is a contention that "there is not in the record
any direct proof whatever of the terms of any conference
or agreement participated in by any of the defendants.
All that appears is that certain steamship owners consisting of firms, the identity of whose members is not
established, operated steamers in the trade from New
York to South African ports without competing with one
another." But more than that appears, and it cannot be
assumed that the circulars that were issued and the concerted course of dealing under them were the accidents
of particular occasions having no premeditation or subsequent unity in execution. The contention did not prevail with the courts below and we are brought to the
consideration of the grounds upon which the Circuit
Court of Appeals changed its ruling, that is, that it was
constrained to do so by the Standard Oil and Tobacco
Cases, 221 U. S. 1, 106.
It is not contended that the facts of those cases or their
decision constrained such conclusion, but only that they
announced a rule which, when applied to the case at bar,
demonstrated the inoffensive character of the combination
of defendants. In other words, it is contended that it
was decided in those cases that "the rule of reason" must
be applied in every case'"for the purpose of determining
whether the subject before the court was Within the
statute," to quote the words of the opinion, and, as explained in subsequent cases, it is the effect of the rule that
only such contracts and combinations are within the act
as, by reason of their intent or the inherent nature of the
contemplated acts, prejudice the public interest by unduly restricting competition or unduly obstructing the

THOMSEN v. CAYSER.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

course of trade. Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373,
376; Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers' Association v.
United States, 234 U. S. 600, 609.
But the cited cases did not overrule prior cases. Indeed, -they declare that prior cases, aside from certain
expressions in two of them I or asserted implications from
them, were. examples of the rule and show its thorough
adequacy to prevent evasions of the policy of the law "by
resort to any disguise or subterfuge of form" or the escape
of its prohibitions "by any indirection." And we have
since declared that it cannot "be evaded by good motives," the law being "its own measure of right and wrong,
of what it permits, or forbids, and the judgment of the
courts cannot be set up against it in a supposed accommodation of its policy with the good intention of the parties
and, it may be, of some good results." Standard Sanitary
Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20, 49; International
Harvester Co. v. Missouri,234 U. S. 199.
The rule condemns the combination of defendants,
indeed, must have a stricter application to it than to the
combinations passed on in the cited cases. The defendants were common carriers and it was their duty to compete, not combine; and their duty takes from them palhation, subjects them in a special sense to the policy of
the law.
Their plan of evasion was simple and as effective as
simple. They established a uniform freight rate, including in it what they called a primage charge. This charge
was refunded subsequently, but only to shippers who
shipped exclusively by the lines of the combining companies and who had not directly or indirectly made or
been interested in any shipment by other vessels. And
there was the further condition that the rebate was not
1 United States v. Trans-MissouriFreightAssociation, 166 U. S. 290;
United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

.243 U. S.

payable on the goods of any consignee who directly or
indirectly imported goods by vessels other than those of
the "conference "-to use the word employed by .the
witnesses to describe the combining companies. This
loyalty on the part of the consignees was subsequently
not exacted, but loyalty upon the part of shippers was
continued to be required and its reward was the refunding
of the primage charge. That the combination was effective both the lower courts agreed. Upon its extent they
differed, the Court of Appeals considering that while it
was in restraint of trade the restraint was reasonable
and therefore not obnoxious to the law.
The Court of Appeals has not given us its reason for its
conclusion. Counsel for defendants say that the Standard
Oil and Tobacco Cases furnish the explanation, and that
they support what the history of the act establishes, that
it was the "clear intent upon the part of Congress not to
condemn contracts and combinations merely because they
are in restraint of competition or merely because they
operate to raise the cost of commodities to consumers."
The argument that is employed to sustain the contention is one that has been addressed to this court in all of
the cases and we may omit an extended consideration of
it. It. terminates, as it has always terminated, in the
assertion that the particular combination involved promoted trade, did not restrain it, and that it was a beneficial and not a detrimental agency of commerce.
We have already seen that a combination is not excused
because it was induced by good motives or produced good
results, and yet such is the justification of defendants.
They assert first that they are voluntary agencies of commerce, free to go where they will, not compelled to run
from New York to Africa, and that, "unlike railroads,
neither law, nor any other necessity, fixes thera upon particular courses;" and therefore, it is asked, "who can
say that otherwise than under the plan adopted, any of

THOMSEN v. CAYSER.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the ships of the defendants would have supplied facilities
for transportation of commodities between New York
and South Africa during the time referred to in the complaint?" The resultant good of the plan, it is said, was
"regularity of service, with steadiness of rates"; and
that "the whole purpose of the plan under which the defendants acted was to achieve this result."
We may answer the conjectures of the argument-by
the counter one that if defendants had not entered the
trade others might have done so and been willing to serve
shippers without constraining them, been willing to compete against others for the patronage of the trade. And
it appears from the testimony that certain lines so competed until they were taken into the defendants' combination.
Nor can it .be said that under defendants as competitors
or that under competing lines service would not be regular
or rates certain, or, if uncertain, that they would be detrimentally so.
That the combination was intended to prevent- the
competition of the lines which formed it is testified, and
it cannot be justified by the conjectures offered by counsel;
nor can we say that the success of the trade required a
constraint upon shippers or the employment of "fighting
ships" to kill off competing vessels which, tempted by the
profits of the trade, used the free and unfixed courses of the
seas, to paraphrase the language of counsel, to break in
upon defendants' monopoly. And monopoly it was;
shippers constrained by their necessities, competitors kept
off by the "fighting- ships." And it finds no justification
in the fact that defendants' "contributions to trade-and
commerce" might "have been withheld." This can- be
said of any of the enterprises of capital and has been urged
before to exempt them from regulation even when engaged
in business which is of public concern. The contention
has long since been worn out and it is established that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

1243 U. S.

conduct of property embarked in the public service is
subject to the policies of the law.
It is contended that the combination, if there was one,
was formed in a foreign country and that, therefore, it was
not within the act of Congress; and that, besides, the principals in the combination and not their agents were amenable to the law. To this we do not assent. As was said
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, the combination affected
the foreign commerce of this country and was put into
operation here. United States v. Pacific & Arctic Ry. &
Nay. Co., 228 U. S. 87. It, therefore, is within the law,
and its managers here were more than simply agentsthey were participants in the combination.
It is, however, contended that even if it be assumed the
facts show an illegal combination, they do not show injury
to the plaintiffs by reason thereof. The contention is untenable. Section 7 of the act gives a cause of action to any
person-injured in his person or property by reason of anything forbidden by the act and the right to recover threefold the damages by him sustained. The plaintiffs alleged
a charge over a reagonable rate and the amount of it. If
the charge be true that more than a reasonable rate was
secured by the combination, the excess over what was
reasonable was an element of injury. Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U' S. 426, 436. The unreasonableness of the rate and to what extent unreasonable
was submitted to the jury and the verdict represented
their conclusion.
The next contention is. that the fact of combination
should have been submitted to th6 jury and not decided
as a matter Qf law by the court. We are unable to assent.
There was no conflict in the evidence, nothing, therefore,
for the jury to pass upon; and the court properly assumed
the decision of what was done and its illegal effect.
It is next contended that the jury was permitted to consider as elements of damage supposititious profits. The

THOMSEN v. CAYSER.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

record does not sustain the contention. The profits were
not left to speculation. There were different sums stated,
resulting from the loss of particular customers, and the
fact of their certainty was submitted to the judgment of
the jury. They were told that they "ought not to allow
any speculative damages," that they were not "required
to guess" as to what damages "plaintiffs claim to have
sustained." And, further, that the burden of proof was
upon plaintiffs and that from the evidence the jury should
be able to make a calculation of what the damages were.
Besides, plaintiffs alleged an overcharge, and the vei'dict
of the jury was for its amount and interest.
Two other contentions are made: (1) The court should
have charged the jury that the burden was on the plaintiffs to show that the rates on their shipments were excessive and unreasonable. (2) The court erred in permitting
plaintiffs to amend their complaint so as to set up a new
cause of action.
(1) If there was error in this its effect is not appreciable.
The record shows a most painstaking trial of the case on
the part of counsel and the court, a full exposition of all
of the elements of judgment and careful instructions of the
court for their estimate. It would be going very far to reverse a case upon the effect of the bare abstraction asserted
by the contention, even granting it could be sustained.
(2) Permitting the amendment of the complaint was
not an abuse of the discretion which a court necessarily
possesses.
The above are the main contentions of defendants.
They make, besides, a contention comprehensive of all
of the rulings against them; but to give a detailed review
of such rulings would require a reproduction of the record,
and we therefore only say that they have been given attention and no prejudicial error is discovered in them.
Judgment .of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and
that of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

