OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. GRADWELL ET AL.
UNITED STATES v. HAMBLY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.

UNITED STATES v. O'TOOLE ET AL.
UNITED STATES v. O'TOOLE ET AL.
ERROR. TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

Nos. 683, 684, 775, 776.

Argued March 16, 1917.-Decided April 9, 1917.

A conspiracy to influence a congressional election by bribery of voters
is not a conspiracy to defraud the United States within the meaning
of § 37 of the Penal Code, formerly § 5440 of the Revised Statutes.
Qumre: Whether the power of Congress to regulate elections of Senators
and Representatives, Const., Art. I, § 4, is applicable to a general
nominating primary as distinguished from a final election?
The primary election law of West Virginia, Acts 1915, c. 26, pp. 222,
246, provides that only candidates belonging to a political party
which polled three per cent. of the vote of the State at the last preceding general election can be voted for, excludes ifidependent and
other voters not regular. and qualified members and voters of such a
party from participation in the primary, and further provides that,
after the primary, candidates, including persons who have failed
therein, may be nominated by certifioate signed by not less than
five per cent. of the entire vote of the last preceding election. Held,
That the rights which candidates for nomination for the office of
Senator of the United States may have in such a primary come
wholly from the state law; and a conspiracy to deprive them of such
rights by debauching the primary with illegal votes for an opposing
candidate is- not within the scope of § 19 of the Penal Code (formerly
Rev. Stats., § 5508) designed for thb protection of rights and privileges secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States.

UNITED STATES v. GRADWELL.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Thb Federal Corrupt Practices Act, and amendments (c. 392, 36 Stat.
822; c. 33, 37 Stat. 25; c. 349, 37 Stat. 360), recognizing primary
elections and limiting the expenditures of candidates for Senator
in connection with them, are not in effect an adoption of all state
primary laws as acts of Congress.
The temporary measure enacted by Congress for the conduct of the
nomination and election of Senators until other provision should be
made by state legislation (c. 103, 38 Stat. 384) was superseded as to
West Virginia by the primary law of that State of February 20,
1914, effective ninety days after its passage.
234 Fed. Rep. 446; 236 Fed. Rep..993, affirmed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for the United
States.
Mr. Alexander L. Churchill for defendants in error in
Nos. 683 and 684.
Mr. John W. Cummings, with. whom Mr. James T.
Cummings and Mr. John J. Fitzgerald were on the brief,
for defendant in error Flynn, in No. 684.
Mr. John H. Holt, with whom Mr. Luther, C. Anderson
was on the brief, for defendants in error in Nos. 775 and
776.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE

delivered the opinion -of the court.

These four cases were argued together because the

indictments in the first three must be justified, if at all,
under the same section (§ 37) of the Criminal Code of the
United States, while the fourth involves the application of
§ 19 of that Code to the same state of facts which we have
in the third case.
In the Gradwell case (No. 683) and in the Hambly case
.(No. 684) the fourteen defendafits are charged in :the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

dictments with having conspired together "to defraud the
United States," and to commit a wilful fraud upon the
laws of the State of Rhode Island, by corrupting and
debauching, by bribery of voters, the general election
held on the third of November, 1914, at which a Representative in Congress was voted for and elected in the
Second Congressional District of Rhode Island in the
Gradwell case, and in the First Congressional District in
the Hambly case, thereby preventing "a fair and clean"
election.
No. 775 relates to the conduct of a primary election
held in the State of West Virginia on the sixth of June,
1916, under a law of that State providing for a state wide
nomination of candidates for the United States Senate.
In the indictment twenty defendants are charged with
conspiring "to defraud the United States in the matter of
its governmental right to have the candidates of the true
choice and preference of said Republican and Democratic
parties nominated for said office, and One of them elected,"
by causing and procuring a large number of persons who
had not resided in the State a sufficient length of time to
entitle them to vote under the state law, to vote at the
primary for a candidate named, and also to procure four
hundred of such persons to vote more than once at such
primary election.
The indictment in No. 776 charges that the same defendants named in No. 775 conspired together to "injure
and oppress" White, Sutherland and Rosenbloom, three
candidates for the Republican nomination for United
States Senator who were voted for at the primary election
held in West Virginia on June 6th, 1916, under a law of
that State, by depriving them of the "right and privilege
of having each Republican voter vote once only, for some
one" of the Republican candidates for such nomination,
and of not having any votes counted at such election except such as were cast by Republican voters duly qualified

UNITED STATES v. GRADWELL.
243. U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

under the West Virginia law. The charge is that the
defendants conspired to accomplish this result by procuring a thousand persons, who were not qualified to vote
under the state law, because they had not resided in that
State a sufficient length of time, to vote for an opposing
candidate, William F. Hite, and inany of them to vote
more than once, and to have their votes cast, counted and
returned as cast in favor of such candidate.
A demurrer to the indictment by each of the defendants
in each case, on the ground that it fails to set forth any
offense under the laws of the United States, was sustained
by the District Court of the District of Rhode Island in
the first two cases and of the Southern District of West
Virginia in the third and fourth. The cases are here on
error.
It is plain from the foregoing statement that the indictments in the first three cases are based solely upon the
charge that the defendants conspired "to defraud the
United States" in violation of § 37 of the Criminal Code;
and that the indictment in No. 776 is based upon the
charge that three candidates for the nomination for
Senator of the United States were "injured and oppressed" within the meaning of § 19 of the Criminal Code,
by a conspiracy on the part of the defendants to compass
their defeat by causing illegal voting for an opposing party
candidate at the primary election.
The applicable portions of §§ 37 and 19 are as follows:
"Section 37. If two or more persons conspire either
to commit any offense against the United States, or to
defraud the United States in any manner or for any purpose, . . . each of the parties to such conspiracy
shall be fined not more than ten, thousand dollars, or imprisoned not more than two years, or both."
"Section 19. If two.or more persons conspire to injure,
oppress, threaten, or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right :or privilege secured to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

him by the Constitution or laws of the United States, or
because of his having so exercised the same,
they shall be fined not more than five thousand dollars
and imprisoned not more than ten years, and shall, morebver, be thereafter ineligible to any office, or place of
honor, profit, or trust 'created by the Constitution or laws
of the United States."
The argument of counsel for plaintiff in error in the
first three cases is that the United States Government has
the right to honest, free and fair elections, that a conspiracy to corrupt electors by bribery has for its object the
denial and defeat of this right and that it therefore is a
scheme to defraud the United States within the meaning
of § 37. This presents for decision the questions:
Is § 37 of the Criminal Code applicable to congressional
elections, and if it is, has the United States such an interest
or right in the result of such elections that to bribe electors
constitutes a fraud upon the Government within the
meaning of this section?
To admit, as it must be admitted, that the people of the
United States and so their Government, considered as a
political entity, have an interest in and a right to honest
and fair elections advances us but little toward determining
whether § 37 was enacted to protect that right and whether
a conspiracy to bribe voters is a violation of it. Obviously
the Government may have this right and yet not have
enacted this law to protect it. It may be, as is claimed,
that Congress intended to rely upon state laws and the
administration of them by state officials to secure honest
elections, and that this section was enacted for purposes
wholly apart from those here claimed for it.
To answer the questions presented requires that we
look to the origin and history of § 37, and that we consider
what has been, and is now, the policy of Congress in dealing with the regulation of elections of Representatives in
Congress.

UNITED STATES v. GRADWELL.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Section 37 first appears as § 30 of "An Act to amend
existing laws relating to Internal Revenue, and for other
purposes," enacted on March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 471, and,
except for an omitted not relevant provision, the section
has -continued from that time to this, in almost precisely
its present form. It was carried into the revision of the
United States Statutes of 1873-4 as § 5440 of Chapter 5,
the title of which is "Crimes against the Operations of the
Government," while another chapter, Chapter 7 of the
revision, deals with "Crimes against the Elective Franchise and Civil Rights of Citizens." Forty-two years
after its first enactment the section was carried into the
Criminal iCode (in force on and after January 1st, 1910)
where it now appears as § 37, again in a chapter, now
Chapter 4, devoted to "Offenses against the Operations
of the Government," while Chapter 3 of the Code deals
with "Offenses against the Elective Franchise and Civil
Rights of Citizens."
The section has been widely applied in .the prosecution
of frauds upon the revenue, in land cases and -to other
operations of the Government, and, while no inference or
presumption of legislative construction is to be drawn from
the chapter headings under which it is found in the Criminal Code (§339), nevertheless the history of the origin,
classification and'use made of the section, which we have
just detailed, are not without significance, and taken with
the fact that confessedly this is the first time that it has
been attempted to extend its application to the conduct
of elections, they suggest strongly that it was not intended
by Congress for such a purpose.
Further aid in determining the application and construction of the section may be derived from the history
of the conduct and policy of the Government in dealing
with congressional elections.
The power of Congress to deal with the election of Senators and Representatives is derived from §4, Article I

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

of the Constitution of the United States, providing
that:
"The times, places and manner of holding elections for
Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each
State by the Legislature thereof; but the Congress may at
any time by law make or alter such regulations, except
as to the places of choosing Senators."
Whatever doubt may at one time have existed as to the
extent of the power which Congress may exercise under
this constitutional sanction in the prescribing of regulations for the conduct of elections for Representatives in
Congress or in adopting regulations which States have
prescribed for that purpose has been settled by repeated
decisions of this court, in Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371,
391 (1879); Ex parte Clarke, 100 U. S. 399 (1879); Ex
parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651 (1884); and in United
States v. Mosley, 238 U. S. 383 (1915).
Although Congress has had this power of regulating
the conduct of congressional elections from the organization of the Government, our legislative history upon the
subject shows that, except for about twenty-four of the
one hundred and twenty-eight years since the Government was organized, it has been its policy to leave such
regulations almost entirely to the States, whose representatives Congressmen are. For more than 50 years no
congressional action whatever was taken on the subject
until 1842 when a law was enacted requiring that Representatives be elected by Districts (5 Stat. 491), thus doing
away with the practice which had prevailed in some
States of electing on a single state ticket all of the Members of Congress to which the State was entitled.
Then followed twenty-four years more before further
action was taken on the subject when Congress provided
for the time and mode of electing United States senators
(14 Stat. 243)'and it was not until four years later, in 1870,
that, for the first time, a comprehensive system for dealing

UNITED STATES v. GRADWELL.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with congressional elections was enacted. IThis system
was comprised in §§ 19, 20, 21 and 22 of the Act approved
May 31, 1870, 16 Stat. 144; in §§ 5 and 6 of the Act approved July 14, 1870, 16 Stat. 254; and in the Act amending and supplementing these acts, approved June 10, 1872,
17 Stat. 347, 348, 349.
These laws provided extensive regulations for the conduct of congressional elections. They made unlawful, false
registration, bribery, voting without legal right, making
false returns of votes cast, interfering in any manner with'
officers of election and the neglect by any such officer of,
any duty required of him by state or federal law; they
provided for appointment by Circuit Judges of the United
States of persons to attend at places of registration and
at elections, with authority to challenge any person proposing to register or vote unlawfully, to witness the counting of votes and to identify by their signatures the registration of voters and election tally sheets; and they made
it lawful for the marshals of the United States to appoint
special deputies to preserve order at such elections, with
authority to arrest for any breach of the peace committed
in their view.
These laws were carried into the revision of the United
States Statutes of 1873-4, under the title "Crimes against
the Elective Franchise and Civil Rights of Citizens,"
Rev. Stats., §§ 5506 to 5532, inclusive.
It will be seen from this statement of the important
features of these enactments that Congress by them committed to federal officers a very full participation in the
process of the election of Congressmen, from the registration of voters to the final certifying of the results, and that
the control thus established over such elections was comprehensive and complete. It is a matter of general as of
legal history that Congress, after twenty-four years of
experience, returned to its former attitude toward such
elections and repealed all of these laws with the exception

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

of a few sections not relevant here. Act approved February 8, 1894, 28 Stat. 36. This repealing act left in effect
as apparently relating to the elective franchise, only the
provisions contained in the eight sections of Chapter 3
of the Criminal Code, §§ 19 to 26, inclusive, which have not
been added to or substantially modified during the twentythree years which have since elapsed.
The policy of thus entrusting the conduct of elections
to state laws, administered by state officers, which has
prevailed from the foundation of the Government to our
day, with the exception, as we have seen, of twenty-four
years, was proposed by the makers of the Constitution
and was entered upon advisedly by the people who
adopted it, as clearly appears from the reply of Madison
to Monroe in the debates in the Virginia Convention,
saying that:
"It was found impossible to fix .the time, place, and
manner, of election of representatives in the constitution.
It was found necessary to leave the regulation of these, in
the first place, to the state governments, as being best
acquainted with the situation of the people, subject to
the control of the general government, in order to enable
it to produce uniformity, and prevent its own dissolution.
. . . Were they exclusively under the control of the
state governments, the general government might easily
be dissolved. But if they be regulated properly by the
state legislatures, the congressional control will very
probably never be exercised. The power appears to me
satisfactory, and as unlikely to be abused as any part of
the constitution." Records of the Federal Convention,
Farrand, vol. 3, p. 311.
And, in Essay No. LIX of the Federalist, Hamilton
writes:
"They [the convention] have submitted the regulation
of elections for the federal government, in the first instance, to the locai administrations; which, in ordinary

UNITED STATES v. GR1AD WELL.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cases, and when no improper views prevail, may be both
more convenient and more satisfactory; but they have
reserved to the national authority a right to interpose,
whenever extraordinary circumstances might render that
interposition necessary to its safety."
With it thus clearly established that the policy of Congress for so great a part of our constitutional life has
been, and now is, to leave the conduct of the election of
its members to state laws, administered by state officers,
and that whenever it has assumed to regulate such elections it has done so by positive and clear statutes, such as
were enacted in 1870, it would be a strained and unreasonable construction to apply to such elections this § 37,
originally a law for the protection of the revenue and for
now fifty years confined in its application to "Offenses
against the Operations of the Government" as distinguished from the-processes by which men are selected to
conduct such operations.
When to all this we add that there are no common-law
offenses against the United States (United States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch, 32; United States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677),
that before a man can be punished as a criminal under the
federal law his case must be "plainly and unmistakably"
within the provisions of some statute (United States v.
Lacher, 134 U. S. 624, 628), and that Congress has always
under its control the means of defeating frauds in the'
election of its members by enacting appropriate legislation and by resort to the constitutional grant of power to
judge of the elections, returns and qualifications of its
own members, we cannot doubt that the District Court
was right in holding that the section was never intended to
apply to elections, and that to bribe voters to votelat such
an election is not such a fraud upon the United States or
upon candidates or the laws of Rhode Island as falls within
either the terms or purposes of the section.
There remains to be considered the second West Vir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

ginia case, No. 776. The indictment in this case charges
that the defendants conspired to procure and did procure
a large number of persons, not legal voters of West Virginia to vote, and a number of them to vote more than
once, in favor of one of the four candidates for the Republican nomination for United States Senator at a state
primary. The claim is that such illegal voting "injured
and oppressed" the three other party candidates, within
the meaning of § 19 of the Criminal Code of the United
States, by depriving them of a right, which it is argued
they had "by the Constitution and laws of the United
States," to have only qualified Republican voters of the
state vote, not more than once for some one of the candidates of that party for Senator at such election.
Here again, confessedly, an attempt is being made to
make a new application of an old law to an old type of
crime, for § 19 has been in force, in substance, since 1870,
but has never before been resorted to as applicable to the
punishment of offenses committed in the conduct of primary elections or nominating caucuses or conventions, and
the question presented for decision is:
. Did the candidates named in the indictment have such
a -right under the applicable West Virginia law that a
conspiracy t6 corrupt the primary election held under that
law on the sixth day of last June "injured and oppressed"
them within the meaning of § 19 of the Federal Criminal
Code?
That this § 19 of the Criminal Code is applicable to
certain conspiracies against the elective franchise is decided by this court in United States v.. Mosley, 238 U. S.
383, but that decision falls far short of making the section
applicable to the conduct of a state nominating primary,
and does not advance us far toward the claimed conclusion that illegal voting for one candidate at such a
primary so violates a right secured to the other candidates
by the United States Constitution and laws as to consti-

UNITED STATES v. GRADWELL.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tute an offense within the meaning and purpose of the section.
The constitutional warrant under which regulations
relating to congressional elections may be provided by
Congress is in terms applicable to the "times, places and
manner of holding elections [not nominating primaries]
for Senators and Representatives." Primary elections,
such as it is claimed the defendants corrupted, were not
only unknown when the Constitution was adopted but
they were equally unknown for many years after the law,
now § 19, was first enacted. They are a development of
comparatively recent years, designed to take the place of
the nominating caucus. or convention, as these existed
before the change, and even yet the new system must be
considered in an experimental stage of development,
under a variety of state laws.
The claim that such a nominating primary, as distinguished from a final election, is included within the provision of the Constitution of the United States applicable
to the election of Senators and Representatives is by no
means indisputable. Many state supreme courts have
held that similar provisions of state constitutions relating
td elections do not include a nominating primary. Ledger-wood v. Pills, 122 Tennessee, 570; Montgomery v. Chelf,
118 Kentucky, 766; State ex rel. Von Stade v. Taylor, 220
Missouri, 619; State v. Nichols, 50 Washington, 508; Gray
v. Seitz, 162 Indiana, 1: State v. Erickson, 119 Minnesota,
152.
But even if it be admitted that. in general a primary
should be treated as an election within the meaning of the
Constitution, which we need not and do not decide, such
admission would not be of value in determining the case
before us, because of some strikingly unusual features of
the West Virginia law under which the primary was held
out of which this prosecution grows. By its terms this
law provided that only candidates for Congress belonging

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

to a political party which polled three per cent. of the vote
of the entire State at the last preceding general election
could be voted for at this primary, and thereby, it is said
at the bar, only Democratic and Republican candidates
could be and were voted for, while candidates of the Prohibition and Socialist parties were excluded, as were also
independent voters who declined to make oath that they
were "regular and qualified members and voters" of one
of the greater parties. Even more notable is the provision
of the law that after the nominating primary, candidates,
even persons who have failed at the primary, may be
nominated by certificate signed by not less than five per
cent. of the entire vote polled at the last preceding election.
Acts West Virginia, 1915, c. 26, pp. 222, 246.
Such provisions as these, adapted though they may be
to the selection of party candidates for office, obviously
could not be lawfully applied to a final election at which
officers are chosen, and it cannot reasonably be said that'
rights which candidates for the nomination for Senator
of the United States may have in such a primary under
such a law are derived from the Constitution and laws of
the United States. They are derived wholly from the state
law and nothing of the kind can be found in any federal
statute. Even when Congress assumed, as we have seen,
to provide an elaborate system of supervision over congressional elections no action was taken looking to the
regulation of nominating caucuses or conventions, which
were the nominating agencies in use at the time such laws
were enacted.
What power Congress would have to make regulations
for nominating primaries or to alter such regulations
when made by a State we need not inquire. It is sufficient
to say that as yet it has shown no disposition to assume
control of such primaries or to participate in them in any
way, and that it is not for the courts, in the absence of
such legislation, to attempt to supply it by stretching old

UNITED STATES v. GRADWELL.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

statutes to new uses, to which they are not adapted and
for which they were not intended. In this case, as in the
others, we conclude that the section of the Criminal Code
relied upon, originally enacted for the protection of the
civil rights of the then lately enfranchised negro, cannot
be extended so as to make it an agency for enforcing a state
primary law, such as this one of West Virginia.
The claim that the Federal Corrupt Practices Act
(June 25, 1910, c. 392, 36 Stat. 822, amended August 19, 1911, c. 33, 37 Stat. 25, and August 23, 1912,
c. 349, 37 Stat. 360), recognizing primary elections and
limiting the expenditures of candidates for Senator in
connection with them is, in effect, an adoption by Congress of all state primary laws is too unsubstantial for
discussion; and the like claim that the temporary measure
(Act of June 4, 1914, 38 Stat. 384), enacted by Congress
for the conduct of the nomination and election of Senators
until other provision should be made by state legislatipn
cannot be entertained, because this act was superseded
by the West Virginia primary election law, passed February 20th, 1914, effective ninety days after its passage.
It results that the judgments of the District Court in
each of these cases must be
Affirmed.

