OCTOBER TERM, 1016.
Argument for Petitioner.

243 U. S.

MOTION PICTURE PATENTS COMPANY v. UNIVERSAL FILM MANUFACTURING COMPANY
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 715.

Argued January 12, 15, 1917.-Decided April 9, 1917.

Under the patent law the grant by patent of the exclusive right to use,
like the grant of the exclusive right to vend, is limited to the invention described in the claims of the patent, and that law does not empower the patent owner by notices attached to the things patented
to extend the scope of the patent monopoly by restricting their use
to materials necessary for their operation but foiming no part of the
patented invention, or to send such articles forth into the channels
of trade subject to conditions as to use or royalty, to be imposed
thereafter in the vendor's discretion. The Button-Fastener Case,
77 Fed. Rep. 288, and Henry v. Dick Company, 224 U. S. 1, overruled.
In determining how far the owner of a patent may restrict the use after
sale of machines embodying the invention, weight must be given
to the rules long established that the scope of every patent is limited
to the invention as described in the claims, read in the light of the
specification, that the patentee receives nothing from the patent
law beyond the right to restrain others from manufacturing, using
or selling his invention, and that the primary purpose of that law
is not to create private fortunes but is to promote the progress of
science and the useful arts.
The extent to which the use of a patented machine may validly be
restricted to specific supplies or otherwise by special contract between the owner of the patent and a purchaser or licensee, is a question outside of the patent law and not involved in this case.
235 Fed. Rep. 398, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Melville Church for petitioner:
The restrictions on the right to use the machine were
fully brought home to the Prague Amusement Company

MOTION PICTURE CO. v. UNIVERSAL FILM CO.
243 U. S.

503

Argument for Petitioner.

and -were binding. .This is settled by Henry v. Dick Co.,
224 U. S. 1, and no doubt is cast upon that case by Bauer
v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1, which did not involve the right
to impose restrictions on use.
In the present case there were two distinct restrictions:
First, that the machine should be used only with motion
pictures leased from a manufacturer licensed by the plaintiff;,and second, that the machine could not be used at all
without compliance with terms previously fixed by the
plaintiff. The first restriction is not repugnant to the
Clayton Act of October 15, 1914, § 3, 38 Stat. 730; but even
if it were, the lawfulness of the second restriction, which
the Prague Company admittedly violated if it had notice,
would not be affected. Oregon R. & U. Co. v. Windsor,
20 Wall. 64-72; U. S. &c. Co. v. Griffen, 126 Fed. Rep.
364-370. The two are independent and severable and the
latter will support the plaintiff's right to exact a license
agreement providing for a continuing royalty, which it
might lawfully reserve and rely upon. St. Paul Plow
Works v. Sparling, 140 U. S. 184. The $5.00 received from
the licensed manufacturer was but a paltry 3Y2 per cent.
of the selling price, and utterly inadequate. The nameplate gave notice of the facts in relation to patent ownership
and that restrictions were placed by the plaintiff upon the
use. The Prague Company was under a duty to inquire
of the Precision Machine Company the terms of the license under which the machine was put out, or to make like
inquiry of the plaintiff. Inquiry of the former would have
shown that the Precision Company was inhibited from
selling except for use "upon other terms" to be fixed by
the licensor and relating to the payment of royalty. The
same information would have been obtained by inquiry
of plaintiff. Either line of inquiry, properly followed up
(ShauerV. Alterton, 151 U. S. 607-622; Wood v. Carpenter,
101 U. S. 135-141), would have revealed the details of
these ''other terms" and resulted in the fixing of a royalty

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Petitioner.

243 U. S.

for use, to be paid only during use-a most reasonable
arrangement.
Having failed to arrange for terms of royalty with the
petitioner, the Prague Amusement Company never had a
license to use and was and is, therefore, an infringer while
using.
The distinction between the property rights conferred
by patent and property rights in the machine, must be
borne clearly in mind. The former are incorporeal, the
latter corporeal, personal property. De La Vergne Machine Co. v. Featherstone, 147 U. S. 209-222. Under the
patent laws, R. S. § 4898, the incorporeal rights are susceptible of infinite subdivision without impairment. Besides
assignments and grants, the separate substantive, exclusive privileges of making, using, and selling may be
parceled out by licenses with a wide variety of choice and
combination as to time, place, method. Any such license may be granted for a lImp sum or upon agreement
for a continuing royalty. The patent owner can neither
be required to make, use, or sell, nor to license others to
do so. Paper Bag Patent Case, 210 U. S. 405, 425, 429.
Upon a sale of the thing patented there is a transfer of the
property in the thing itself but of only so much of the incorporeal patent rights as the owner chooses to relinquish.
A sale outright without restriction passes both kinds of
rights absolutely, but if, when selling, the patent owner
restricts the purchaser's enjoyment of the incorporeal
right of use conferred by the patent, any use by the pur'chaser beyond what is specifically authorized is an infringement 'upon the patent owner's reserved rights and
may be restrained by the courts.
In the present case the machine proclaimed through the
notice upon it .that the right to use was restricted, and
notified the purchaser to go to the plaintiff and make
terms for the use, else it would be unlawful.
It is no objection that the notice itself did not state

0TION PICTURE CO. v. UNIVERSAL FILM CO.
MO
243 U. S.

505

Opinion of the Court.

the terms. Plainly and unmistakably it showed that the
machine was not free but under the domination of the
named patent owner who must be applied to. If the
notice had been followed up, a reasonable royalty contract
would have undoubtedly resulted. In ignoring the notice
out of a desire to escape any royalty, the purchaser took
its chances of being stopped for infringement.
There is no question but that plaintiff's remedy is on the
patent for the tort. There was no contract. Respondent,
having deliberately refused to make one, is estopped to
!claim a contract or that the plaintiff has mistaken its
remedy.
The 'liability of the other respondents is that of contributory infringers who knowingly cooperated in carrying
on an unlicensed use. All the respondents are jointly and
severally liable in tort. Lovejoy v. Murray, 3 Wall. 1-11;
Walker on.Patents, 4th ed., § 406, p. 343.
The patent in suit is valid. Plaintiff is not estopped,
as claimed, by proceedings in the Patent Office.
Mr. Oscar W. Jeffery, with whom Mr. Edmund Wetmore
and Mr. John B. Stanchfieldwere on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
In this suit relief is sought against three defendant
corporations as joint infringers of claim number seven of
United States letters patent No. 707,934 granted to Woodville Latham, assignor, on August 26, 1902, for improvements in Projecting-Kinetoscopes. It is sufficient description of the patent to say that it covers a part of the
mechanism used in motion picture exhibiting machines for
feeding a film through the machine with a regular, uniform and accurate movement and so as not to expose the
film to excessive strain or wear.
The defendants in a joint answer do not dispute the title

OCTOBRER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 t.. S.

of the plaintiff to the patent but they deny the validity of
it, deny infringement, and claim an implied license to use
the patented machine.
Evidence which is undisputed shows that the plaintiff
on June 20, 1912, in a paper styled "License Agreement"
granted to The Precision Machine Company a right and
license to manufacture and sell machines embodying the
inventions described and claimed in the patent in suit,
and in other patents, throughout the United States, its
territories and possessions. This agreement contains a
covenant on the part of the grantee that every machine
sold by it, except those for export, shall be sold "under the
restriction and condition that such exhibiting or projecting
machines shall be used solely for exhibiting or projecting
motion pictures containing the inventions of reissued
letters patent No. 12,192, leased by a licensee of the licensor
while it owns said patents, and upon other terms to be fixed
by the. licensor and complied with by the user while the
said machine is in use and while the licensor owns said
patents (which other terms shall only be the payment of a
royalty or rental to 'the licensor while in use)."
The grantee further covenants and agrees that to each
machine sold by it, except for export, it will attach a
plate showing plainly not only the dates of the letters
patent under which the machine is "licensed, " but also
the following words and figures:
"-Serial No.
"Patented
No.
"The sale and purchase of this machine gives only the
right to use it solely with moving pictures containing the
invention of reissued patent No. 12,192, leased by a licensee of the Motion Picture Patents Company, the
owner of the above patents and reissued patent, while it
owns said patents, and upon other terms to be fixed by
the Motion Picture Patents Company and complied with
by the user while it is in use and while the Motion Picture

-

MOTION PICTURE CO. v. UNIVERSAL FILM CO.
243 U. S.

507

Opinion of the Court.

Patents Company owns said patents. The removal or
defacement of this plate terminates the right to use this
machine."
The agreement further provides that 'the grantee shall
not sell any machine at less than the plaintiff's list price,
except to jobbers and others for purposes of resale and
that it will require such jobbers and others to sell at not
less- than plaintiff's list price. The price fixed in the li-.
cense contract for sale of machines after May 1st, 1909,
is not less than $150 for each machine-and the licensee
agrees to pay a royalty of $5 on some machines and a
percentage of the selling price on others.
It is admitted that the machine, the use of which is
charged to be an infringement of the patent in suit, was
manufactured by The Precision Machine Company and
was sold and delivered under its "License Agreement"
to the Seventy-second Street Amusement Company, then
operating a playhouse on Seventy-second Street, in New
York, and that when sold it was fully paid for and had
attached to it a plate with the inscription which we have
quoted as required by the agreement.
Reissued patent 12,192, referred to in the notice attached to the machine, expired on August 31, 1914. The
defendant Prague Amusement -Company on November 2,
1914, leased the Seventy-second Street playhouse from the
Seventy-second Street Amusement Company, and acquired the alleged infringing machine as a part of the
equipment of the leased playhouse. Subsequent to the
expirtion of reissued patent 12,192 the defendant, Universal 11lm Manufacturing Company, made two films
or reels, which, between March 4th and 17th, 1915, were
sold to the defendant the Universal Film Exchange and on
March 17, 1915, were supplied to the defendant Prague
Amusement Company for use on the machine, acquired
as we have stated, and were used upon it at the Seventysecond Street playhouse on March 18th, 1915.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 V. S.

On January 18, 1915, the plaintiff sent a letter to the
Seventy-second Street Amusement Company, notifying it
in general terms that it was using without a license a
machine embodying the invention of patent No. 707,934
and warning it that such use constituted an infringement
of the patent, and on the same day the plaintiff addressed
a letter to the defendant Universal Film Exchange notifying it that it also was infringing the same patents by supplying films for use upon the machine of the Sevientysecond Street playhouse and elsewhere. The bill in this
case was filed on March 18, 1915.
The District Court held that the limitation on the use
of the machine attempted to be made by the notice attached to it, after it had been sold and paid for, was
invalid, and that the Seventy-second Street Amusement
Company, the purchaser, and its lessee, the Prague Amusement Company, had an implied license to use the machine
as it had been used, and it dismissed the bill without
passing on the question raised in the pleadings as to the
validity of the patent. The Circuit Court of Appeals.
affirmed the District Court (235 Fed. Rep. 398) and the
case is here for review on certiorari.
It was admitted at the bar that 40,000 of the plaintiff's
machines are now in use in this country and that the
mechanism covered by the patent in suit is the only one
with which motion picture films can be used successfully.
This state of facts presents two questions for decision:
First. May a patentee or his assignee license another to
manufacture and sell a patented machine and by a mere
notice attached to it limit its use by the purchaser or by
the purchaser's lessee, to films which are no part of the
patented machine, and which are not patented?
Second. May the assignee of a patent, which has
licensed another to make and sell the machine covered by
it, by a mere notice attached to such machine, limit the

MOTION PICTURE CO. v. UNIVERSAL FILM CO.
243 U.

S.

509

Opinion of the Court.

use of it by the purchaser or by the purchaser's lessee to

terms not stated in the notice but which are to be fixed,
after sale, by such assignee in its discretion?
It is obvious that in this case we have presented anew
the inquiry, which is arising with increasing frequency in
recent years, as to the extent to which a patentee or his
assignee is authorized by our patent laws .to prescribe by
notice attached to a patented machine the conditions of
its use and the supplies which must be used in the operation of it, under pain of infringement of the patent.
The statutes relating to patents do not provide for any
such notice and it can derive no aid from them. Revised
Statutes, §4900, requiring that patented articles shall be
marked with the word "Patented" affects only the
damages recoverable for infringement, Dunlap v. Schofield,
152 U. S. 244, and Rev. Stats., §4901, protects by its
penalties the inventor, but neither one contemplates the
use of such a "License Notice" as we have here and whatever validity it has must be derived from the general and
not from the patent law.
The extent to which the use of the patented machine
may validly be restricted to specific supplies or otherwise
by special contract between the owner of a patent and the
purchaser or licensee is a question outside the patent law
and with it we are not here concerned. Keeler v. Standard
Folding Bed Co., 157 U. S. 659.
The inquiry presented by this record, as we have stated
it, is important and fundamental, and it requires that we
shall determine the meaning of Congress when in Rev.
Stats., §4884, it provided that "Every patent shall contain

.

.

. a grant to the patentee, his heirs or assigns,

for the term of seventeen years, of the exclusive right to
make, use, and vend the invention or discovery throughout
the United States, and the Territories thereof." We are
concerned only with the right to "use," authorized to be
granted by this statute, for it is under warrant of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

right only that the plaintiff can and does claim validity for
its warning notice.
The words used in the statute are few, simple and
familiar, they have not been changed substantially since
they were first used in the Act of 1790, c. 7, 1 Stat. 109;
Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1, 9, sand their meaning
would seem not to be doubtful if we can avoid reading into
them that which they really do not contain.
In interpreting this language of the statute it will be of
,service to keep in mind three rules long established by this
court, applicable to the patent, law and to the construction
of patents, viz:
1st. The scope of every patent is limited to the invention described in the claims contained in it, read in the
light of the specification. These so mark where the
progress claimed by the patent begins and where it ends
that they have been aptly likened to the description in a
deed, which sets the bounds to the grant which it contains.
It is to the claims of every patent, therefore, that we must
turn when we are seeking to determine what the invention
is, the exclusive use of which is given to the inventor by
the grant provided for by the statute,-"He can claim
-nothing beyond them." Keystone Bridge Co. v. Ph&-nix
Iron Co., 95 U. S. 274; Railroad Co. v. Mellon, 104 U. S.
112, 118; Yale Lock Mfg. Co. v. Greenleaf, 117 U. S. 554,
559; McClain v. Ortmayer, 141 U. S. 419, 424.
2nd. It has long been settled that the patentee receives
nothing from the law which he did not have before, and
that the only effect of his patent is to restrain others from
manufacturing, using or selling that which he has invented.
The patent law simply protects him in the monopoly of
that which he has invented and has described in the claims
of his patent. United States. v. American Bell Telephone
Co., 167 U. S. 224, 239; Paper Bag Patent Case, 210 U. S.
405, 424; Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1, 10.
3rd. Since Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Pet. 1, was decided in

MOTION PICTURE CO. v. UNIVERSAL FILM CO.
243 U. S.

511

Opinion of the Court.

1829 this court has consistently held that the primary
purpose of our patent laws is not the creation of private
fortunes for the owners of patents but is "to promote the
progress of science and useful arts" (Constitution, Art. I,
§ 8), an object and purpose authoritatively expressed by
Mr. Justice Story, in that decision, saying:
"While one great object [of our patent laws] was, by
holding out a reasonable reward to.inventors, and giving
them an exclusive right to their inventions for a limited
period, to'stimulate the efforts of genius; the main object
was 'to promote the progress of science and useful arts."'
Thirty years later this court, returning to the subject,
in Kendall v. Winsor, 21 How. 322, again pointedly and
significantly says:
"It is undeniably true, that the limited and temporary
monopoly granted to inventors was never designed for
their exclusive profit or advantage; the benefit to the
public or community at large was another and doubtless
the primary object in granting and securing that monopoly."
This court has never modified this statement of the
relative importance of the public and private interests
involved in every grant of a patent, even while declaring
that in the construction of patents and the patent laws,
inventors shall be fairly, even liberally, treated. Grant v.
Raymond, 6 Pet. 218, 241; Winans v. Denmead, 15 How.
330; Walker on Patents, § 185.
These rules of law make it very clear that the scope of
the grant which may be made to an inventor in a patent,
pursuant to the statute, must be limited to the invention
described in the claims'of his patent (104 U. S.118, supra)
and to determine what grant may lawfully be so made we
must hold fast to the language of the act of Congress providing for it, which is found in two sections of the Revised
Statutes.. Section 4886 provides that "Any person who
has invented or discovered any new and useful art, ma-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

chine, manufacture or composition of matter, or any new
.may
and useful improvement thereof,. ..
obtain a patent therefor"; and § 4884 provides that such
patent when obtained "shall contain . . . a grant to
. of the exclusive
the patentee, his heirs or assigns .
.
use . .
the invention or disright to .
covery."
Thus the inventor may apply for, and, if he meets the
required conditions, may obtain, a patent for the new and
useful invention which he has discovered, which patent
shall contain a grant of the right to the exclusive use of his
discovery.
Plainly, this language of the statute and the established
rules to wlich we have referred restrict the patent granted
on a machine, such as we have in this case, to the mechanism described in the patent as necessary to produce
the described results. It is not concerned with and has
nothing to do with the materials with which or on which
the machine operates. The grant is of the exclusive right
to use the mechanism to produce the result with any
appropriate material, and the materials with which the
machine is operated are no part of the patented machine
or of the combination which produces the patented result. The difference is clear and vital between the exclusive right to use the machine which the law gives to the
inventor and the right to use it exclusively with prescribed
materials to which such a license notice as we have here
seeks to restrict it. The restrictions of the law relate to the
useful and novel features of the machine which are described in the claims of the patent, they have nothing to
of the mado with the materials used in the operation
chine; while the notice restrictions have nothing to do with
the invention which is patented but relate wholly to the
materials to be used with it. Both in form and in substance the notice attempts a restriction upon the use of
the supplies only and it cannot with any regard to pro-

MOTION PICTURE CO. v. UNIVEISAL FILM CO.
243 U. S.

513

Opinion of the Court.

priety in the use of language be termed 'a restriction upon
the use of the machine itself.
Whatever right the owner may have to control by
restriction the materials to be used in operating the machine must be derived through the general law from the
ownership of the property in the machine and it cannot
be derived from or protected by the patent law, which
allows a' grant only of the right to an exclusive use of the
new and useful discovery which has been made-this
and nothing more.
This construction gives to the inventor the exclusive
use of just what his inventive genius has discovered. It
is all that the statute provides shall be given to him and
it is all that he should receive, for it is the fair as well as
the statutory measure of his reward for his contribution
to the public stock of knowledge. If his discovery is an
important one his reward under such a construction of the
law will be large, as experience has abundantly proved,
and .if it be unimportant he should not be permitted by
legal devices to impose an unjust charge upon the public
in return for the use of it. For more than a century this
plain meaning of the statute was accepted as its technical
meaning, and that it afforded ample incentive to exertion
by inventive genius is- proved by the fact that under it
the greatest inventions of our time, teeming with inventions, were made. It would serve no good purpose to amplify by argument or illustration 'this plain meaning of
the statute.' It is so plain that to argue it would obscure it.
It was not until the time came in which the full possibilities seem. first to have been appreciated of uniting, in
one, many branches of business through corporate organization and of gathering great profits in small payments,
which are not realized orresented, from many, rather than
smaller or even equal profits in larger payments, which
are felt and may be refused, from a few, that it came to be
thought that the "right to use , . , the invention"

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

of a patent gave to the patentee or his assigns the right
to restrict the use of it to materials or supplies not described in the patent and not by its terms made a part
of the thing patented.
The construction of the patent law which justifies as
valid the restriction of patented machines, by notice, to
use with unpatented supplies necessary in the operation
of them, but which are no part of them, is believed to have
originated in Heaton-Peninsular Button-Fastener Co. v.
Eureka Specialty Co., 77 Fed. Rep. 288 (which has come
to be widely referred to as the Button-Fastener Case),
decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Sixth
Circuit in, 1896. In this case the court, recognizing the
pioneer character of the decision it was rendering, speaks
of the "'novel restrictions" which it is considering and says
that it is called upon "'to mark another boundary line
around the patentee's monopoly, which will debar him
from engrossing the market for an article not the subject
of a patent," which it declined to do.
This decision proceeds upon the argument that, since
the patentee may withold his patent altogetiher from publie use he must logically and necessarily be permitted to
impose any conditions which he chooses upofi any use
.which he may allow of it. The defect in this thinking
springs from the substituting of inference and argument
for the language of the statute and from failure to distinguish between the, rights which are given to the inventor
by the patent law and which he may assert against all the
world through an infringement proceeding and rights
which he may create for himself by private contract
which, however, are subject to'the rules of general as distinguished from those of the patent law. While it is true
that under the statutes as they were (and now are) a
patentee might withhold his patented machine from public use, yet if he consented to use it himself or through
others, such use immediately fell within the terms of the

MOTION PICTURE CO. v. UNIVERSAL FILM CO.
243 U. S.

515

Opinion of the Court.

statute and as we have seen he is thereby restricted to the
use of the invention as it is described in the claims of his
patent and not as it may be expanded by limitations as to
materials and supplies necessary to 'the operation of it
imposed by mere notice to the public.
The high standing of the court rendering this decision
and the obvious possibilities for gain in the method which
it approved led to an immediate and widespread adoption
of the system, in which these restrictions expanded into
more and more comprehensive forms until at length the
case at bar is reached, with a machine sold and paid for
yet claimed still to be subject not only to restriction as to
supplies to be used but 'also subject to any restrictions or
conditions as to use or royalty which the company which
authorized its sale may see fit, after the sale, from time to
time to impose. The perfect instrument of favoritism
and oppression which such a system of doing business, if
valid, would put into the control of the owner of such a
patent should make courts astute, if need be, to defeat its
operation. If these restrictions were sustained plainly
the plaintiff might, for its own profit or that of its favorites,
by the obviously simple expedient of varying its royalty
charge, ruin anyone unfortunate enough to be dependent
upon its confessedly important improvements for the doing
of business.
Through the twenty years since the decision in the
Button-Fastener Case was announced there have not been
wanting courts and judges who have dissented from its
conclusions, as is sufficiently shown in the division of this
court when the question involved first came before it in
Henry v. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1, and in the disposition
shown not to extend the doctrine in Bauer v. O'Donnell,
229 U. S. 1.
The exclusive right to "vend" a patented article is
derived from the same clause of the section of the statute
which gives the exclusive right to "use" such an article

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

and following the decision of the Button-Fastener Case,
it was widely contended as obviously sound, that the right
existed in the owner of a patent to fix a price at which the
patented article might be sold and resold under penalty
of patent infringement. But this court, when the question
came before it in Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1, rejecting
plausible -argument and. adhering to the language of the
statute from which all patent right is derived, refused to
give such a construction to the act of Congress, and decided that the owner of a patent is not authorized by either
the letter or the purpose of the law to fix, by notice, the
price at which a patented article must be sold after the
first sale of it, declaring that the right to vend is exhausted
by a single, unconditional sale, the article sold being
thereby carried outside the monopoly of. the patent law
and rendered free of every restriction which the vendor
may attempt to put upon' it. The statutory authority
to grant the exclusive right to "use" a patented machine
is not greater, indeed it is precisely the same, as the authority to grant the exclusive right to "vend," and,
looking to that authority, for the reasons stated in this
opinion we are convinced that the exclusive right granted
in every patent must be limited to the invention described
in the claims of the patent and that it is not competent
for the owner of a patent by notice attached to its machine
to, in effect, extend the scope of its patent monopoly by
restricting the use of it to materials necessary in its operation but which are no part of the patented invention, or
to send its machines forth into the channels of trade of the
country subject to conditions as to use or royalty to be
paid to be imposed thereafter at the discretion of such
patent owner. The patent law furnishes no warrant for
such a practice and the cost, inconvenience and annoyance
to the public which the opposite conclusion would oecasion forbid it.
It is argued as a merit of this system of sale under a

MOTION PICTURE CO. v. UNIVERSAL FILM CO.
243 U. S.

517

Opinion of the Court.

license notice that the public is benefited by thesale of the
machine at what is practically its cost and by the fact that
the owner of the patent makes its entire profit from the
sale of the supplies with which it is operated. This fact,
if it be a fact, instead of commending, is the clearest possible condemnation of, the practice adopted, for it proves
that under color of its patent the owner inteids to and
does derive its profit, not from the invention on which
the law gives it a monopoly but from the unpatented
supplies with which it is used and which are wholly without the scope of the patent monopoly,. thus in effect extending the power to the owner of the patent to fix the
price to the public of the unpatented supplies as effectively
as he may fix the price on the patented machine.
We are confirmed in the conclusion which we are announcing by the fact that since the decision of Henry v.
Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1, the Congress of the United States,
the source of all rights under patents, as if in response to
that decision, has enacted a law making it unlawful for
any person engaged in interstate commerce "to lease or
make a sale or contract for sale of goods

.

.

.

ma-

chinery, supplies or other commodities, whether patented
or unpatented, for use, consumption or resale . . . or
fix a price charged therefor . . . on the condition,

agreement or understanding that the lessee or purchaser
thereof shall not use

.

.

.

the goods

. I.

. ma-

chinery, supplies or other commodities of a competitor
or competitors of the lessor or seller, where the effect of
such lease, sale, or contract for sale or such condition,.
agreement or understanding may be to substantially
lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly in any
line of commerce." 38 Stat. 730.
Our conclusion renders it unnecessary to make the
application of this statute to the case at bar which the
Circuit Court of Appeals made of it but it must be accepted by us as a most persuasive expression of the public

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

policy of our country with respect to the question before

US.
It is obvious that the conclusions arrived at in this
opinion are such that the decision in Henry v. Dick Co.,
224 U. S. 1, must be regarded as overruled.
Coming now to the terms of the notice attached to the
machine sold to the Seventy-second Street Amusement
Company under the license of the plaintiff and to the first
question as we have stated it.
This notice first provides that the machine, which was
sold to and paid for by the Amusement Company may be
used only with moving picture films containing the invention of reissued patent No. 12,192, so long as the
plaintiff continues to own this reissued patent.
Such a restriction is invalid because such a film is obviously not any part of the invention of the patent in suit;
because it is an attempt, without statutory warrant, to
continue the patent monopoly in this particular character
of film after it has expired, and because to enforce it would
be to create a monopoly in the manufacture and use of
moving picture films, wholly outside of the patent in suit
and of the patent law as we have interpretea it.
The notice further provides that. the machine shall be
used only upon other terms (than those stated in the
notice) to be fixed by the plaintiff, while it is in use and
while the plaintiff "owns said patents." And it is stated
at the bar that under this warrant a charge was imposed
upon the purchaser graduated by the size of the theater
in which the machine was to be used.
Assuming that the plaintiff has been paid an average
royalty of $5 on each machine sold, prescribed in the license agreement, it has already received over $200,000
for the use of its patented improvement, which relates
only to the method of using the films which another had
invented, and yet it seeks by this device to collect during
the life of the patent in suit what would doubtless aggre-

MOTION PICTURE CO. v. UNIVERSAL FILM CO.
243 U. S.

519

HOLMES, MCKENNA, and VAN DEVANTER, JJ., dissenting.

gate many times this amount for the use of this same
invention, after its machines have been sold and paid for.
A restriction which would give to the plaintiff such a
potential power for evil over an industry which must be
recognized as an important element in the amusement
life of the nation, under the conclusions we have stated
in this opinion, is plainly void, because wholly without
the scope and purpose of our patent laws and because, if
sustained, it would be gravely injurious to that public
interest, which we have seen is more a favorite of the law
than is the promotion of private fortunes.
Both questions as stated must be answered in the negative and the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES,

concurs in the result.

dissenting.

I suppose that a patentee has no less property in his
patented machine than any other owner, and that in
addition to keeping the machine to himself the patent
gives him the further right to forbid the rest of the world
from making others like .it. In short, for whatever motive,
he may keep his device wholly out of use. Continental
Paper Bag Co. v. Eastern Paper Bag Co., 210 U. S. 405,
422. So much being undisputed, I cannot understand
why he may not keep it out of use unless the licensee, or,
for the matter of that, the buyer, will use some unpatented thing in connection with it. Generally speaking
the measure of a condition is the consequence of a breach,
and if that consequence is one that the owner may impose
unconditionally, he may impose it conditionally upon
a certain event. Ashley v. Ryan, 153 U. S. 436, 443.
Lloyd v. Dollison, 194 U. S. 445, 449. Non debet, cui plus
licet, quod minus est non licere. D. 50, 17, 21.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
HOLMES, MCKENNA

and

VAN DEVANMR,

JJ., dissenting. 243 U. S.

No doubt this principle might be limited or excluded
in cases where the condition tends to bring about a state
of things that there iA a predominant public interest to
prevent. But there is no predominant public interest to
prevent a patented tea pot or film feeder from being kept
from the public, because, as I have said, the patentee may
keep them tied up at will while his patent lasts. .Neither
is there any such interest to prevent the purchase of the
tea or films, that is made the condition of the use of the
machine. The supposed contravention of public interest
sometimes is stated as an attempt to extend the patent
law to unpatented articles, which of course it is not, and
more accurately as a possible domination to be established
by such means. But the domination is one only to the
extent of the desire for the tea pot or film feeder, and if the
owner prefers to keep the pot or the feeder unless you will
buy his tea or films, I cannot see in allowing him the right
to do so anything more than an ordinary incident of
ownership, or at most, a consequence of the Paper Bag
Case, on which, as it seems to me, this case ought to turn.
See Grant v. Raymond, 6 Pet. 218, 242.
Not only do I believe that the rule that I advocate is
right under the Paper Bag Case, but I think that it has
become a rule of property that law and justice require
to be retained. For fifteen years, at least since Bement
v. National Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70, 88-93, if not considerably earlier, the public has been encouraged by
this court to believe that the law is as it was laid down in
Heaton-Peninsular Button-Fastener Co. v. Eureka Specialty Co., 77 Fed. Rep. 288, 25 C. C. A. 267, and numerous
other decisions of the lower courts. I believe that many
and important transactions have taken place on the faith
of those decisions, and that for that reason as well as for
the first that I have given, the rule last announced in
Henry v. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1, should be maintained.
I will add for its bearing upon Straus v. Victor Talking

MARSHALL v. GORDON.
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

Machine Co., ante, 490, that a conditional sale retaining the
title until a future event after delivery, has been decided to
be lawful again and again by this court. Bailey v. Baker
Ice Machine Co., 239 U. S. 268, 272. I confine myself to expressing my views upon the general and important questions upon which I have the misfortune to differ from
the majority of the court. I leave on one side the question
of the effect of the Clayton Act, as the court has done,
and also what I might think if the Paper Bag Case were
not upheld, or if the question were upon the effect of a
combination of patents such as to be contrary to the
policy that I am bound to accept from the Congress of the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA
VANTER

and MR. JUSTICE VAN DE-

concur in this dissent.

MARSHALL v. GORDON, SERGEANT-AT-ARMS OF
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 606.

Argued December 11, 12, 1916.-Decided April 23, 1917.

Appellant, while United States Attorney for the Southern District of
New York, conducted a grand jury investigation which led to the
indictment of a member of the House of Representatives. Acting
on charges of misfeasance and nonfeasance made by the member
against appellant in part before the indictment and renewed with
additions afterward, the House by resolution directed its Judiciary
Committee to make inquiry and report concerning appellant's
liability to impeachment. Such inquiry being in progress through
a sub-committee, appellant addressed to the sub-committee's chairman and gave to the press a letter, charging the sub-committee with

