OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

McDONALD v. MABEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 135. Submitted January 31, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.
A person domiciled in Texas left the State intending to make his home
elsewhere, his family residing there meanwhile. During his absence
an action for money was begun against him in a Texas court. After
returning and remaining for a short time, he departed finally and
established a domicile in another State. The only service in the
action was by publication in a newspaper after his final departure.
Based on this service, a personal judgment for money was rendered
against him which was sustained under the laws of Texas by the
Supreme Court of the State. Held, that the judgment was absolutely void under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Quaere: Whether the judgment would have been good if a summons
had been left at his last and usual place of abode in Texas while the
-family was in that State and before the new domicile was acquired?
An ordinary personal judgment for money, invalid for want of service
amounting to due process of law, is as ineffective in the State of its
rendition as it is elsewhere.
Since judgments are of reciprocal obligation, a judgment void if sued
on by the plaintiff is void also when interposed by the defendant as a
bar to the original cause of action.
175 S. W. Rep. 676, reversed.

The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry D. McDonald, pro se, and Mr. A. P. Park

for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joseph W. Bailey for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit upon a promissory note. The only defence
now material is that the plaintiff had recovered a judg-

McDONALD v. MABEE.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment upon the same note in a previous suit in Texas which
purported to bind the defendant personally as well as to
foreclose a lien by which the note was secured. When the
former suit was begun the defendant, Mabee, was domiciled in Texas but had left the State with intent to establish a home elsewhere, his family, however, still residing
there. He subsequently returned to Texas for a short time
and later established his domicile in Missouri. The only
service upon him was by publication in a newspaper once
a week for four successive weeks after his final departure
from the State, and he did not appear in the suit. The
Supreme Court of the State held that this satisfied the
Texas statutes and that the judgment was a good personal
judgment, overruling the plaintiff's contention that to give
it that effect was to deny the constitutional right to due
process of law. 175 S. W. Rep. 676.
The foundation of jurisdiction is physical power, although in civilized times it is not necessary to maintain
that power throughout proceedings properly begun, and
although submission to the jurisdiction by appearance
may take the place of service upon the person. Michigan
Trust Co. v. Ferry, 228 U. S. 346, 353. Pennsylvania Fire
Insurance Co. v. Gold Issue Mining & Milling Co., decided
to-day, post, 93. No doubt there may be some extension
of the means of acquiring jurisdiction beyond service or
appearance, but the foundation should be borne in mind.
Subject to its conception of sovereignty even the common
law required a judgment not to be contrary to natural
justice. Douglas v. Forrest,4 Bing. 686, 700, 701. Becquet
v. MacCarthy, 2 B. & Ad. 951, 959. Maubourquet v. Wyse
(1867), 1 Ir. Rep. C. L. 471, 481. And in States -bound
together by a Constitution and subject to the Fourteenth
Amendment, great caution should be used not to let fiction
deny the fair play that can be secured only by a pretty
close adhesion to fact. Baker v. Baker, Eccles & Co., 242
U. S. 394.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

There is no dispute that service by publication does not
warrant a personal judgment against a non-resident.
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714. Riverside & Dan River
Cotton Mills v. Menefee, 237 U. S. 189. Some language of
Pennoyer v. Neff would justify the extension, of the same
principle to absent parties, but we shall go no farther than
the precise facts of this case require. When the former
suit was begun Mabee, although technically domiciled in
Texas, had left the State intending to establish his home
elsewhere. Perhaps in view of his technical position and
the actual presence of his family in the State a summons
left at his last and usual place of abode would have been
enough. But it appears to us that an advertisement in a
local newspaper is not sufficient notice to bind a person
who has left a State intending not to return. To dispense
with personal service the substitute that is most likely to
reach the defendant is the least that ought to be required
if substantial justice is to be done. We repeat also that
the ground for giving subsequent effect to a judgment is
that the court rendering it had acquired power to carry
it out; and that it is going to the extreme to hold such
power gained even by service at the last and usual place
of abode.
Whatever may be the rule with regard to decrees concerning status or its incidents, Haddock v. Haddock, 201
U. S. 562, 569, 632, an ordinary personal judgment for
money, invalid for want of service amounting to due process of law, is as ineffective in the State as it is outside of it.
201 U. S. 567, 568. If the former judgment had been
sued upon in another State by the plaintiff we think that
the better opinion would justify a denial of its effect. If
so, it was no more effective in Texas. De la Montanya v.
De la Montanya, 112 California, 101. Boring v. Penniman,
134 California, 514.
The usual occasion for testing the principle to be applied
would be such as we have supposed, where the defendant

PENNA. FIRE INS. CO. v. GOLD ISSUE MINING CO.
243 U. S.

93

Syllabus.

was denying the validity of the judgment against him.
But the obligations of the judgment are reciprocal and
the fact that here the defendant is asserting and the plaintiff denying its personal effect does not alter the 6ase.
Whittier v. Wendell, 7 N. H. 257. Rangely v. Webster,
11 N. H. 299. Middlesex Bank v. Butman, 29 Maine, 19.
The personal judgment was not merely voidable, as was
assumed in the slightly different case of Henderson v.
Staniford, 105. Massachusetts, 504, but was void. See
Needham v. Thayer, 147 Massachusetts, 536. In Henderson v. Staniford the absent defendant intended to return
to his State.
Judgment reversed.

PENNSYLVANIA FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY
OF PHILADELPHIA v. GOLD ISSUE MINING
AND MILLING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 584.

Argued January 29, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

A fire insurance company, to obtain a license to do business in Missouri, filed with the Superintendent of the Insurance Department
of that State, under Missouri Rev. Stats., 1909, ยง 7042, a power of
attorney consenting that service of process on him should be deemed
personal service on the company so long as it should have any liabilities outstanding in the State. The Missouri Supreme Court,
construing the statute, held that the consent covered service in an
action in Missouri on a policy issued in Colorado insuring buildingr
in the latter State. Held, that the construction had a rational basis
in the statute and therefore could not be deemed to deprive the
company of due process of law, even if it took it by surprise. O'Neil
v. Northern ColoradoIrrigationCo., 242 U. S. 20, 26.
When a power actually is conferred by a document, the party executing it takes the risk of the interpretation that may be put upon it

