OCTOB3ER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U.S.

UNITED STATES v. GINSBERG.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 401.

Argued March 15, 1917.-Decided April 9, 1917.

When several questions are certified under Jud. Code, ยง 239, and answers to part will dispose of the case, answers to the rest may be

omitted.
Section 9 of the Naturalization Act, c. 3592, 34 Stat. 596, requires that
final hearings upon petitions for naturalization shall be held entirely
in open court; a hearing in the judge's chambers adjoining the court
room does not satisfy this requirement.
Under ยง 15 of the act a certificate of citizenship granted by the court
or judge on a state of facts showing the petitioner not qualified for
citizenship, is subject to be annulled in an independent suit by the
United States.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Atiorney General Wallace for the United
States.
No appearance for Ginsberg.
MR.

JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Four questions have been certified (Judicial Code,
ยง 239); but considering the accompanying statement of
facts and our views in respect of the law, answers to the
first and fourth will enable the Circuit Court of Appeals
properly to determine the issues involved. United States
v. Britton, 108 U. S. 199, 207.
Question "1-Is the final hearing of a petition for
naturalization had in open court as required by sec. 9

UNITED STATES v. GINSB3FRG.
243 U. S.

473

Opinion of the Court.

of the act of June 29, 1906, c. 3592, if after the petition is
first presented in open court the hearing thereof is passed
to and finally held in the chambers of the judge adjoining
the court room, on a subsequent day and at an earlier hour
than that to which the court has been regularly adjourned?"
Question "4-May a certificate of citizenship be set
aside and canceled in an independent suit brought under
section 15 of the act of June 29, 1906, c. 3592, on the
ground that it was illegally procured if the uncontradicted
evidence at the hearing of the petition showed indisputably
that the petitioner was not qualified by residence for
citizenship and that the court or judge who heard the
petition and ordered the certificate misapplied the law and
the facts?"
Prior to 1906 "The Uniform Rule of Naturalization"
authorized by the Constitution was found in the Act of
1802 and a few amendments thereto. This enumerated
only general controlling principles. Grievous abuses having arisen, Congress undertook by the Act of June 29,
1906, c. 3592, 34 Stat. 596, to prescribe "and fix a uniform system and a code of procedure in naturalization
matters." Report Committee on Immigration and Naturalization, H. R. 1789, Feb. 26, 1906. This specifies with
circumstantiality the manner ("and not otherwise") in
which an alien may be admitted to become a citizen of the
United States; what his preliminary declaration shall be;
form and contents of his sworn petition to the court and
witnesses by which it must be verified; form of oath to be
taken in open court; necessary proof concerning residence,
character, etc. The clerk is required to post notice of
the petition with details concerning applicant, when final
hearing will take place, names of witnesses by which
alleged facts are to be established, etc. And it is further
provided:
Section 9. "'That every final hearing upon such petition

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

shall be had in open court before a judge or judges thereof,
and every final order which may be made upon such petition shall be under the hand of the court and entered in
full upon a record kept for that purpose, and upon such
final hearing of such petition the applicant and witnesses
shall be examined under oath before the court and in the
presence of the court."
Section 15. "That it shall be the duty of the United
States district attorneys for the respective districts, upon
affidavit showing good cause therefor, to institute proceedings in any court having jurisdiction to naturalize
aliens in the judicial district in which the naturalized
citizen may reside at the time of bringing the suit, for the
purpose of setting aside and canceling the certificate of
citizenship on the ground of fraud or on the ground that
such certificate of citizenship was illegally procured. In
any such proceedings the party holding the certificate of
citizenship alleged to have been fraudulently or illegally
procured shall have sixty days personal notice in which to
make answer to the petition of the United States; and
if the holder of such certificate be absent from the United
States or from the district in which he last had his residence,. such notice shall be given by publication in the
manner provided for the service of summons by publication or upon absentees by the laws of the State or the place
where such suit is brought."
*
*
*

*

*.

*

*

*

In Johannessen v. United States, 225 U. S. 227, we
discussed the purpose and effect of the act.
An alien who seeks political rights as a member of this
Nation can rightfully obtain them only upon terms and
conditions specified by Congress. Courts are without
authority to sanction changes or modifications; their duty
is rigidly to enforce the legislative will in respect of a
matter so vital to the public welfare.
Section 9 requires a final hearing upon the petition in

UNITED STATES v. GINSBERG.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

open court. The term open court is used in contradistinction to a judge sitting in chambers. Bouvier's Law
Dictionary. The whole statute indicates a studied purpose to prevent well known abuses by means of publicity
throughout the entire proceedings. Its plain language
repels the idea that any part of a final hearing may take
place in chambers, whether adjoining the court room or
elsewhere.
No alien has the slightest right to naturalization unless
all statutory requirements ar6 complied with; and every
certificate of citizenship must be treated as granted upon
condition that the Government may challenge it as provided in ยง 15 and demand its cancellation unless issued in
accordance with such requirements. If procured when
prescribed qualifications have no existence in fact it is
illegally procured; a manifest mistake by the judge cannot
supply these nor render their existence non-essential.
Question numbered one must be answered in the
negative; numbered four in the affirmative.
And it is so ordered.

