UNITED STATES v. MOREHEAD.
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

the judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas as to the
five cars where the damaged condition of the peaches was
shown to be known to the longshoremen. This cross-writ
involves the liability of the carrier under the bill of lading
and it is assigned for error that the stipulation in question
violates the act of Congress known as the Hepburn Act
and the Carmack Amendment, and there are other reasons
assigned for the alleged invalidity of the stipulation in
the bill of lading. This court has jurisdiction upon the
cross-writ. As to these cars, we think the conclusion
reached by the Supreme Court of Arkansas was a correct
one, and upon the cross-writ of error the judgment is
affirmed. As to No. 275, the writ sued out by the railroad company, the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Arkansas is reversed, and the cause remanded to that court
for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion
of this court.
Reversed, in part, and Affirmed, in part.

UNITED STATES v. MOREHEAD.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 685. Argued March 14, 1917.-Decided April 30, 1917.
A charge of perjury may be based upon a valid regulation of the Land
Department requiring an affidavit, if the oath be taken "before a
competent tribunal, officer or person." United States v. ,Smuil, 236

U. S.405.
The Land Department being expressly charged with the duty of enforcing the public land laws by appropriate regulations, its regulations
in that regard, when duly promulgated, must be deemed valid if
they are not unreasonable, inappropriate, or inconsistent with the
acts of Congress.
A regulation of the Land Department requiring applicants for soldiers'

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

homesteads)inder Rev. Stats., §§ 2304 et seq., to make oath in their
declaratory, statements that their claims are for their exclusive use
and benefit, for the purpose of actual settlement and cultivation,
and not either directly or indirectly for the use or benefit of any other
person, and that agents filing such statements have no right or interest, direct or indirect, in the filing thereof, is a.valid regulation,
not adding to the conditions of the statute but serving to effectuate
its purpose.
The regulation of the Department providing that soldiers' declaratory
statements, when filed by agent, may be executed before any officer
having a seal and authorized to administer oaths generally, is appropriate and valid, and an oath to such a statement taken before a
state notary or clerk of court pursuant to such regulation violates
the federal perjury statute, if the statement is material and false.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful, with whom Mr.
S. W. Williams was on the brief, for. the United States.
Mr. W. B. Sands for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.

Morehead was indicted under § 37 of the Criminal Code
for conspiring with others to commit an offense against

the United States. The offense contemplated by the conspirators is subornation of perjury (Criminal Code, § 126)
in connection with soldiers' declaratory statements, to be
filed by defendant as agent, covering public lands under
the Homestead Law. The perjury set forth in the indictment consists in false swearing before notaries public and
clerks of state courts to declaratory statements. The
parts of the statement alleged to be false are those which
declare:
(1) That the claim is made for his [the applicant's]

exclusive use and benefit, for the purpose of actual settle-

UNITED STATES v. MOREHEAD.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment and cultivation, and not either directly or indirectly
for the use or benefit of any other person.
(2) That the agent has no right or interest, direct or
indirect, in the filing of such declaratory statement.
The District Court sustained a demurrer on the ground
that the indictment did not charge a crime, holding that
there was no law which required affidavits to soldiers'
declaratory statements; that the Land Department was
not authorized to exact them; that consequently no law
"authorizes an oath to be administered" to such affidavits;
and as perjury is possible only when an oath is authorized
to be administered, the procuring of these false oaths
could not be subornation of perjury, nor an agreement to
secure them a conspiracy to suborn perjury. The case
comes here on writ of error under the Criminal Appeals
Act (March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246).
The Homestead Law (Rev. Stats., §§ 2304-2309, embodying Act of June 8, 1872, c. 338, 17 Stat. 333), does not
prescribe whether or not an affidavit shall accompany a
soldier's declaratory statement. The affidavit is prescribed by a regulation of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, promulgated with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior.' It is clear that a charge of perjury
1 The

material part of the Regulation of October 11, 1910 (39 L. D.
291, 294-5) is as follows:
"The soldiers' declaratory statement, if filed in person, must be accompanied by the prescribed evidence of military service and the oath
of the person filing the same, stating his residence and postoffice
address, and setting forth -that the claim is made for his exclusive use
and benefit for the purpose of actual settlement and cultivation and
not, either directly or indirectly, for the use or benefit of any Other
person;
"In case of filing a soldier's declaratory statement by agent, the oath
must further declare the name and authority of the agent and the date
of the power of attorney, or other instrument creating the agency,
adding that the name of the agent was inserted therein before its execution. It should also state in terms that the agent has no right or
interest, direct or indirect, in the filing of such declaratory statement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

may be based upon a valid regulation of the General Land
Office requiring an affidavit if the oath be taken "before
a competent tribunal, officer or person." United States
v. Smull, 236U. S. 405. The question obviously arising
here is whether the law authorized the oath to be administered. Another question-whether it was administered by a competent tribunal, officer or person-was
treated by both parties as requiring decision. Assuming
without specially determining the occasion for passing
upon the second question, we proceed to consider both.
1. Whether an affidavit may be required to a soldiers'
homestead declaratory statement.
The Homestead Law I gives to every soldier who served
"The agent must file (in addition to his power of attorney) his own
oath to the effect that he has no interest, either present or prospective,
direct or indirect, in the claim; that the same is filed for the sole benefit
of the soldier, and that no arrangement has been made whereby said
agent has been empowered at any future time to sell or relinquish such
laim, either as agent or by filing an original relinquishment of the
claimant.
"Where a soldier's declaratory statement is filed in person, the affidavit of the soldier or sailor must be sworn to before either the register
or the receiver, or before a United States commissioner, or a United
States court commissioner, or judge, or clerk of a court. of record in
the county or land district in which the land sought is situated. Where
a declaratory statement is filed by an agent, the agent's affidavit must
be executed before one of the officers above mentioned, but the soldier's
affidavit may be executed before any officer having a seal and authorized to administer oaths generally, and not necessarily within the land
district in which the land is situated."
Rev. Stats., § 2304:
"Every private soldier ....
who has served in the Army of
the United States during the recent rebellion .
shall .
be entitled to enter upon and receive patents for a quantity of public
lands not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres . . . subject
to entry under the homestead laws of the United States; but such
homestead settler shall be allowed six months after locating his homestead, and filing his declaratory statement, within which to make his
entry and commence his settlement and improvement."

UNITED STATES v. MOREHEAD.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the Army of the United States during the War of the
Rebellion for ninety days, was honorably discharged and
remained loyal to the Government, the right, upon certain
conditions, to enter upon 160 acres of the public land as a
homestead and receive a patent therefor. To comply with
these conditions the applicant must make actual entry,1
settlement and improvement; and he must, on applying
to enter the land, make and file the affidavit, as provided
in Rev. Stats., § 2290, that such application is honestly
and in good faith made for the purpose of actual settlement and cultivation, and not for the benefit of any other
person. Furthermore, in order to obtain a certificate
or patent, he must, under Rev. Stats., § 2291, make proof
of his residence for the full period and an affidavit "that
no part of such land has been alienated." The filing of a
declaratory statement is not a necessary step in acquiring
title to land. It relates to a privilege, akin to pre-emption,
by which he may secure, prior to the entry under § 2290,
a preferential right to acquire, under the homestead law,
the particular tract located on. The privilege is exercised
by filing the declaratory statement with the register; and
if exercised, lapses unless within six months thereafter,
the soldier makes entry and actually commences settlement and improvement. See Charles Hotaling, 3 L. D. 17,
20; Stephens v. Ray, 5 L. D. 133, 134. To render this
privilege readily available to soldiers living at a distance,
authority is given (Rev. Stats., § 2309) 2 to "enter upon
'The term entry is used in the statutes, regulations and decisions in
several senses; sometimes to designate the initiatory proceeding
whereby an inchoate right or privilege is acquired; sometimes as referring to final entries or proof; sometimes as referring to the proceeding as a whole. Dealy v. United States, 152 U. S. 539, 545; Stcarns v.
United States, 152 Fed. Rep. 900, 907; United States v. Northern Pacific
Ry. Co., 204 Fed. Rep. 485.
2Rev. Stats., § 2309:
"Every soldier, sailor, marine, officer, or other person coming within
the provisions of section twenty-three hundred and four, may, as well

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

the homestead by filing a declaratory statement," "as

well by an agent as in person." Thus the soldier can be
assured of the selection of an advantageous homestead
before perfecting his plan for removing to his new home.
It is a matter of common knowledge that this special
privilege, granted to facilitate the acquisition by soldiers
of homesteads in grateful recognition of patriotic service,
was soon perverted into an instrument of fraud. Soldiers'
declaratory statements, acquired by so-called agents in
large numbers, became the subject of extensive speculation. They were used as a means of pre-empting choice
lands for a period of six months with a view merely to
selling relinquishments of locations to persons desiring

to acquire public lands under the pre-emption or general
homestead laws. See 1 L. D. 79. To stay this abuse the
General Land Office issued, on December 15, 1882, the
circular concerning "Soldiers' Homestead Declaratory
Statements," (1 L. D. 36) i prescribing requirements
by an agent as in person, enter upon such homestead by filing a declaratory statement, as in pre-emption cases; but such claimant in person shall within the time prescribed make his actual entry, commence
settlements and improvements on the same, and thereafter fulfill all
the requirements of law."
"'SOLDIERS' HOMESTEAD DECLARATORY STATEMENTS."
CIRCULAR.

"Commissioner McFarland to registers and receivers, December 15,
1882.
"In view of extensive frauds in the matter of declaratory statements
of homestead applicants under Sections 2304 and 2309 of the Revised
Statutes, the privilege conferred by the filing of such claims having
been made the occasion of barter and sale, without attempt on the part
of the soldier to comply with the statute by making formal entry at
the district office, and commencement of settlement upon the land
within the prescribed period of six months, the following regulations
are prescribed for the admission of such filings:
"1. Proof of qualification as an honorably discharged soldier must
be furnished in accordance with existing regulations in case of entry by
soldiers who make direct homestead application without availing them-

UNITED STATES v. MOREHEAD.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which have since remained in force and are embodied in
substance in the regulation of October 11, 1910.
Defendant contends that this regulation, which has been
enforced continuously for nearly thirty-five years,, is
invalid. Since the Land Department is expressly charged
with the duty of enforcing the public land laws by appropriate regulations I and the regulation in question was
selves of the preliminary filing. Oath of the soldier, setting forth his
residence and post-office address, must accompany the filing, to the
effect that the claim is made for his exclusive use and benefit, for the
purpose of actual settlement and cultivation, and not either directly
or indirectly for the. use or benefit of any other person; and it must
also be shown by such oath that he has not theretofore either made a
homestead entry or filed a declaratory statement under the homestead law.
"2.. Where the declaratory statement is offered for filing by an agent
under Section 2309, the oath must further declare the name and authority of such agent, giving the date of the power of attorney or other
instrument creating the agency, and also aver that the name was inserted therein before execution. It will be observed that with the filing
of the declaratory statement the power of the agent, under the law, is
at an end. He has thereafter no right or control with respect to the
matter nor over the land selected, and has no authority to relinquish
the claim or do any other act in the premises. The further declaration
of the statute is express, that 'such claimant in person shall within the
time prescribed make his actual entry, commence settlements and improvements on the same, and thereafter fulfill all the requiremefits of
law.' Nevertheless, the oath of the soldier and the power of attorney
should show that such is the understanding of the matter, and he
should swear in terms that such agent has no right or interest direct
or indirect in the filing of such declaratory statement.
"
IRev. Stats., § 441:
"The Secretary of the Interior is charged with the supervision of
public business relating to the following subjects: . . . The public
lands.
"
Rev. Stats., § 453:
"The Commissioner of the General Land-Office shall perform, under
the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, all executive duties appertaining to the surveying and sale of the public lands of the United
'States, or in anywise respecting such public lands, .
."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

duly promulgated, the assertion of its invalidity must
be predicated either upon its being inconsistent with the
statutes or upon its being in itself unreasonable or inappropriate. That the requirement of the soldier's affidavit
to the facts essential to the existence of any right of the applicant under the law is both reasonable and appropriate,
can scarcely be doubted. United States v. Smull, 236 U. S.
405, 411; United States v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 238, 255. But defendant urges that the regulation is inconsistent with the
statute in that it adds to the requirements of the statute
still another condition to be performed before the soldier
can acquire his homestead; and hence is legislation, not
regulation. But the regulation does not add a new requirement in exacting the affidavit, as in Williamson v.
United States, 207 U. S. 425, 458-462. It merely demands
appropriate evidence that the proceeding is initiatedas the statute requires it must be throughout conductedin good faith for the single purpose of acquiring a homestead.
Great stress is laid upon the reference to "pre-emption
cases " in Rev. Stats., § 2309, which provides that the
soldier "may, as well by an agent as in person, enter
upon such homestead by filing a declaratory statement,
as in pre-emption cases." In proceedings under the preemption laws (Rev. Stats., §§ 2257-2288, repealed by Act
Rev. Stats., § 161:
"The head of each Department is authorized to prescribe regulations,
not inconsistent with law, for the government of his Department, the
conduct of its officers and clerks, the distribution and performance of
its business, and the custody, use, and preservation of the records,
papers, and property appertaining to it."
Rev. Stats., § 2478:
"The Commissioner of the General Land-Office, under the direction
of the Secretary of the Interior, is authorized to enforce and carry into
execution, by appropriate regulations, every part of the provisions of
this Title [Title xxxii-The Public Lands] not otherwise specially provided for."

UNITED STATES v. MOREHEAD.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of March 3, 1891, c. 561, 26 Stat. 1095) an affidavit was
not required either by the statute or by regulation (see
10 L. D. 687); and it is said that it cannot, therefore, be
required under the provisions for soldiers in the Homestead Law. But the reference in the latter statute carries
no such implication.. It was inserted for a different purpose. The general homestead law does not give the privilege of securing, in advance of formal entry, a preferential
right to a particular location. That is, it gives no right
to prior selection; and none accrues from prior occupation
save such as is given by § 3 of the Act of May 14, 1880, c.
89, 21 Stat. 140. Nor does the pre-emption law give
a privilege to acquire, merely by selection, a preferential
right to a particular parcel of land. But under it, the
person who actually "settles and improves" land, may
in advance of entry under Rev. Stats., § 2262, acquire a
preferential right over others, to the particular parcel,
by filing with the register within thirty days thereafter
(Rev. Stats., § 2264) "a written statement describing the
land settled upon." To that "written statement" the
"declaratory statement" provided for by the provision
for soldiers in the Homestead Law may be likened; but
the conditions under which it is filed are very dissimilar.
The pre-emptiotier must personally before "filing" have
actually entered upon the land, must have commenced
settlement and improvement-acts which in themselves
furnish evidence that the proceeding has been initiated
in good faith. The soldier homesteader, on the other hand,
need do nothing whatever to obtain a six months' preferential right save file the declaratory statement, and that may
be done by an agent-a situation calling for extrinsic
evidence by affidavit of the applicant's good faith. Good
reasons thus exist for a difference in requirements in the
two classes of cases: but the power of the Land Department to require an affidavit to the declaratory statement
even in pre-emption cases, as it did to declaratory state-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.,

ments under the Coal Land Law, seems not to have been
questioned. (Rev. Stats., §§ 2348, 2349; 1 L. D. 687, paragraphs 28, 33.) The regulation calling for an affidavit
to a soldier's declaratory statement under the Homestead Law, unlike that considered in United States v.
George, 228 U. S. 14, is thus a regulation entirely consistent
with the statutory provisions; and being also appropriate,
is valid.
2. Whether state officers are authorized to administer the
oath.
The purpose of Congress, in allowing filings to be made
by an agent, was to facilitate the acquisitions of homesteads by soldiers living at a distance from the land to
be settled on. To their declaratory statements the several
statutes 1 which provide for the administering of oaths by
registers and receivers, or by the clerks of courts or United
States commissioners in the district wherein the land is
situated are obviously not exclusively applicable, if applicable at all. And plainly the provision of Rev. Stats.,
§ 2293, relating to affidavits before the commanding
officers of soldiers actually engaged in service, is inapplicable. The requirement of an affidavit to the declaratory statement, to be made by soldiers living elsewhere
than in the land district, can be complied with only if
an oath before some officer other than those specifically
named in those statutes is recognized as being within the
authority of law. It follows that to carry out the duties
imposed by law, the Land Department was called upon to
make appropriate provision for the administering of oaths
in such cases; and the provision that soldiers' declaratory
statements, when filed by agent, "may be executed before
any officer having a seal and authorized to administer
oaths generally," is both appropriate and "not inconsist1 Rev. Stats., §§ 2246, 2290, 2294; Act of June 9, 1880, c. 164, 21
Stat. 169; Act of May 26, 1890, c. 355, 26.Stat. 121; Act of March 11,
1902, c. 182, 32 Stat. 63; Act of March 4, 1904, c. 394, 33 Stat. 59.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. v. LAYTON.
243 U. S.

617

Syllabus.

ent with law." Ever since the decision in United States
v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 238, 255, it has been held that an oath
administered by a state magistrate, in- pursuance of a
valid regulation of one of the departments of the Federal
Government, though without express authority from Congress, subjects the affiant to the penalties of the federal
statute against false swearing. See Caha v. United States,
152 U. S.211, 218.
The indictment charges a crime under the laws of the
United States. Judgment of the District Court is reversed
and the case is remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
ET AL. v. LAYTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 840. Argued April 11, 1917.-Decided April 30, 1917.
The Georgia Employers' Liability Act, Georgia Code of 1911, § 2783,
eliminates the defenses of assumed risk and contributory negligence
when a violation of the Federal Safety Appliance Acts contributes
to cause the injury.
Under the Federal Safety Appliance Acts carriers in Interstate Commerce are liable in damages to their employees, injured in the discharge of duty, whenever the failure to comply with those acts is the
proximate cause of injury and without reference to the physical
position occupied by the employee or the nature of the work upon
which he is engaged at the time when the injury occurs.
So held in a case where failure of couplers to work automatically in a
switching operation resulted in a collision of cars from one of which
the plaintiff was thrown to his injury while preparing to release
brakes.
145 Georgia, 886, affirmed.

