ST. JOSEPH & 0. I. RY. CO. v. MOORE.
243 U. S.

311

Syllabus.

charge that the joinder of the two companies is fraudulent,
except that it was made for the purpose of preventing
removal to the federal court, this claimed reason for removal must also fail, Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Sheegog
and C. & 0. Ry. Co. v. Cockrell, supra, and therefore the
decision of the District Court is reversed and the case
must be remanded to the state court.
The petition for removal of this case was filed on the
twenty-first day of July, 1902, and now, fifteen years
after, in directing that the case be remanded, we cannot
fail to notice the many seemingly needless delays to which
it has been subjected, and we direct that appropriate
action be taken to return it as promptly as possible to the
state court.
Reversed.

ST. JOSEPH & GRAND ISLAND RAILWAY COMPANY v. MOORE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 573. Argued January 30, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.
An action governed by the Federal Employers' Liability Act is not
removable from the state to the federal court upon-tht ground of
diverse citizenship.
Where there is substantial evidence of negligence to support the verdict
in an action for personal injuries, this court will not disturb the
finding of a state court.
Under the Safety Appliance Act, 27 Stat. 531, c. 196, as amended by
the Act of March 2, 1903, 32 Stat. 943, c. 976, the duty to provide
grab-irons or hand-holds on the ends, as well as on the sides, of locomotive tenders is an absolute duty which must be literally complied with, and claimed equivalents can not satisfy the law.
268 Missouri, 31, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

Mr. Robert A. Brown for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John G. Parkinson for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
Moore, the defendant in error, was in the employ of the
plaintiff in error as a brakeman, and was desperately injured on June 9, 1910. His claim is that at the moment
of the accident he was engaged in adjusting a defective
automatic coupler on the rear end of the tender of an engine, which was started unexpectedly, causing him to be
thrown from his feet by the steam hose equipment, which
hung down to within a few inches of the surface of the
track, and that, in part because the tender was not
equipped with grab-irons or hand-holds, as required by the
federal law, he fell helpless under the wheels and lost
both of his hands.
He recovered a judgment in the trial court, which was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Missouri, and the case
is here on writ of ertor.
The applicability of the Employers' Liability Act to the
case was admitted from the beginning, but nevertheless a
petition was promptly filed for the removal of the case to
the United States Circuit Court on the ground of diversity
of citizenship. This petition was denied and the claim that
this denial constitutes reversible error is now argued here,
albeit somewhat faintly. The claim is wholly without
merit, as is apparent from the plain reading of the Federal
Employers' Liability Act and as is determined in Kansas
City Southern Ry. Co. v. Leslie, 238 U. S. 599, and in Southern Railway Co. v. Lloyd, 239 U. S. 496.
It is claimed, with much apparent confidence, that no
substantial evidence appears in the record to support the
judgment of the state courts, and that under the authority
of Southern Pacific Co. v. Pool, 160 U. S. 438, the judgment

ST. JOSEPH & G. I. RY. CO. i'. MOORE.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

should be reversed. An inspection of tHe record satisfies
us that substantial testimony was introduced in support
of the claimed negligence of the railroad company and
that, applying the usual rule, the result cannot be disturbed on this claim.
But chief emphasis, perhaps, is laid in the argument
upon the claim that the trial court erred in refusing to say
to the jury, as a matter of law, that: "Any iron rod or iron
device securely fastened upon the end of defendant's
tender to which employees could conveniently catch hold
while in the performance of their .duties in coupling or
uncoupling cars was a hand-hold or grab-iron within the
meaning of the law," and that, therefore, if the vertical
iron hand-hold, and iron rod-pin-lifting or uncoupling
lever-extending across the tender just above the coupler, were so designed and constructed as to permit employees engaged in coupling or uncoupling cars to readily
grasp them for their better security while in the performance of such work, the defendant was not guilty of negligence in failing to provide necessary and proper handholds or grab-irons and the plaintiff cannot recover for any
injury sustained from lack of them on the engine tender.
The trial court gave this request as the law of the case,
but provided, only, the jury should find "that said attachments or devices furnished reasonable security to the
employees of defendant in coupling and uncoupling said
tender and cars." The railroad company excepted to this
modification of its request to charge and argues now that
to so modify it was error.
We quite agree with the Supreme Court of Missouri in
its conclusion that the giving of the company's request,
even as modified by the trial court, was error in its favor,
being much more than it deserved under the law.
Section 4 of the safety appliance statute provides:
"It shall be unlawful for any railroad company to use any
car in interstate commerce that is not provided with se-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

cure grab irons or handholds in the ends and sides of each
car for greater, security to the men in coupling and uncoupling cars." 27 Stat. 531. This statute was, in terms,
made applicable to tenders of engines by the amendment
of 1903, 32 Stat. 943, c. 976.
The request preferred is an obvious attempt to secure
the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the Safety
Appliance Act, and to persuade the court to say that it is
not necessary for carriers to comply with the law if only
they will furnish some other appliance which one jury
may say is "just as good" but which another jury may
say is not.
It is much too late for such a claim to be seriously entertained. In the case of St. Louis, Iron Mountain &
Southern Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S.281, often approved
by this court, it was settled, once for all, that Congress,
not satisfied with the common-law duty and its resulting
liability, in the Safety Appliance Act of March 2, 1893, 27
Stat. 531, prescribed and defined certain definite standards to which interstate carriers must conform, and of the
required automatic 'couplers this court said, Congress has
"enacted that 'no cars, either loaded or unloaded, shall
be used in interstate traffic which do not comply with the
standard.' There is no escape from the meaning of these
words. Explanation cannot clarify them, and ought not
to be employed to confuse them or to lessen their significance."
The exercise of care, even the greatest, in supplying
and repairing these appliances will not excuse defects in
them,-the duty and liability are absolute. St. Louis, Iron
Mountain and Southern Ry. Co. v. Taylor, supra; Great
Northern Ry. Co. v. Otos, 239 U. S. 349, 351. If equivalents were allowed the statute would be lost in exceptions
and its humane purpose defeated in the uncertainty of
litigation.
The request to charge on which the plaintiff in error re-

ST. JOSEPH & G. I. RY, CO. v. MOORE.
243 U. S.

315

Opinion of the Court.

lies in its terms implies the absence of the required handholds or grab-irons, and an inspection of the 'photograph
of the tender confirms the inference. The vertical handhold referred to in the request was at the corner of the
tender and could be useful only to a-man walking or running alongside the track to operate the uncoupling lever,
or, as it is sometimes called, the pin-lifting lever. It could
not be of value when the automatic coupler was not in
working condition or to a man in the position in which
Moore was when injured.
This grab-iron requirement first appears in the Act of
1893 and the amendment -ten years later (March 2nd,
1903) 32 Stat. 943, making the requirement in terms applicable to tenders did not change it. Whatever may be
said of 1893, there can be no doubt that in 1903 automatic
couplers, and' therefore uncoupling or pin-lifting levers,
were in common, if not general, use, on the tenders of
engines, and if Congress had intended them to be acc6pted
as a substitute for hand-holds or grab-irons we must assume
that the amendment of 1903 would have so provided.
The statute requires both. It practical confirmation of
this conclusion were desired it is to be found in the fact
that in the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
standardizing safety appliances, under the Act of Congress
of April 14, 1910, 36 Stat. 298, two rear end hand-holds
are required on locomotives "one near each side on rear
end of tender on the face of the end sill."
It is not admissible to allow such an important staiL
utory requirement to be satisfied by equivalents lor by
anything less than literal compliance with what it prescribes.: The charge as given being more faVorable to the
company than it deserved, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Missouri is
Affirmed.

