OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. KENOFSKEY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 649.

Submitted March 16, 1917.-Decided April 9, 1917.

A local agent of a life insurance company, whose duty was to verify

claims of death and certify and deliver the proofs and certificates
to the company's local superintendent, so certified and delivered a
false claim, proofs and certificates, for the purpose of defrauding
the company, knowing and expecting that in the due course of business and before the claim would be paid the documents, when approved by the superintendent, would be mailed to the company's
home office for final approval, as actually occurred. In approving
and -mailing the documents the superintendent acted innocently.
Held: (1) That the agent caused the mailing, within Criminal Code,
ยง 213, providing 'punishment for those who "place or cause to be
placed" matter in a post-office for the purpose of executing a scheme
to defraud.
(2) That the scheme was not executed on delivery of the documents
to the local superintendent.
235 Fed. Rep. 1019, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Warren 'for the United
States.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Indictment charging a scheme to defraud by use of the
mails in violation of ยง 215 of the Criminal Code.
The indictment is in the usual volume of such instru-

UNITED STATES v. RENOJYSKEY.
243 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

ments but may be sufficiently summarized as presenting
the following facts:
Kenofskey was the agent and assistant superintendent
at New Orleans, Louisiana, of the Life Insurance Company of Virginia. It was part of his duty to obtain certificates and proofs of death of persons insured in the company and also to view the remains of deceased policy
holders, have them identified, and deliver the certificates
and proofs of death to the superintendent of the local
office at New Orleans, to be forwarded in the usual course
of business through the United States mails to the home
office of the company at Richmond, Virginia. In pursuance of a fraudulent scheme Kenofskey falsely represented to the insurance company that he had received and
obtained a valid and genuine claim, proof of death and
certificates executed, signed and presented by Sarah
Thompson, the beneficiary in a policy which had been
issued upon the life of one Frederick Wicker. Kenofskey
signed the certificates as assistant superintendent. Frederick Wicker is still living, and Kenofskey knew that all
claims required the approval of the main office and were
to be transmitted from the local office through the United
States mails and if handed by him to the superintendent
would be so transmitted, and, for that purpose, he delivered the proofs to the superintendent. The superintendent
examined them and without knowledge of their fraudulent
character affixed his signature thereto, inclosed them in
an envelope and deposited them, postage paid, in the
United States mails.
A demurrer was filed to the indictment, stating as
grounds thereof that it was not sufficient to constitute a
violation of ยง 215 of the Criminal Code of the United
States properly construed and understood or of any other
law of the United States.
The demurrer was sustained, the court giving as its
reasons therefor the following:

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

"The depositing of the letter in the mail for the purpose
of executing the scheme is the crime. The defendant did
not mail the letter, and the local superintendent of the
insurance company was not his agent. It is not charged
it was the duty of the defendant either to prepare for
mailing or to actually mail the papers. He is sought to
be held on the theory that as he knew the claim would be
mailed to the home office, in the usual course of the business,
for approval before payment, he knowingly caused it to
be deposited. This theory is too far-fetched to be tenable. Furthermore, in order to constitute a crime, the mailing of the letter must have been a step in the execution of
the fraudulent scheme. The scheme devised by defendant
was completely executed when he handed the false claim
to the local agent at New Orleans.
"However desirable it may be from the viewpoint of
the victim to try all perpetrators of fraudulent schemes
in the federal courts, this court can not assume jurisdiction
except in clear cases.
"The demurrer will be sustained."
This appeal was 'then prosecuted under the Criminal
Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, 34 Stat. 1246.
Section 215 of the Criminal Code i' as follows:
"Whoever, having devised .
. any scheme or
artifice to defraud . .
shall, for the purpose of
executing such scheme or artifice or attempting so to do,
place, or cause to be placed, any letter, . . . package,
writing, . . . in any post-office, .
. to be sent
or delivered by the post-office establishment of the United
States,
" shall be punished, etc.
The short point in the case is whether the facts charged
show that Kenofskey offended against the statute. The
District Court was of opinion that they did not, for two
reasons: (1) The superintendent at New Orleans was
not the agent of Kenofskey. (2) Section 215 is directed
at steps in the execution of fraudulent schemes and the
.

UNITED STATES v. KENOFSKEY.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

scheme devised by Kenofskey was completely executed
when he delivered the false claim to the local agent at
New Orleans.
We are unable to concur: The words of ยง 215 are "place,
or cause to be placed, [italics ours] any letter,
.
package, writing,
.
in any post-office, . .
to be sent or delivered
.
"Cause" is a word of very broad import and its meaning
is generally known. It is used in the section in its wellknown sense of bringing about, and in such sense it is
applicable to the conduct of Kenofskey. He deliberately
calculated the effect of giving the false proofs to his superior officer; and the effect followed, demonstrating the
efficacy of his selection of means. It certainly cannot
be said that the superintendent received authority from
the insurance company to transmit to it false proofs. He
became Kenofskey's agent for that purpose and the means
by which he offended against the provisions of the statute.
Demolli v. United States (C. C. A., 8th Circuit), 144
Fed. Rep. 363.
We do not think the scheme ended when Kenofskey
handed the false proofs to his superior officer. As said
by the Assistant Attorney General, "The most vital
element in the transaction both to the insurance company
and to Kenofskey remained yet to become an actuality,
i. e., the payment and receipt of the money;
"
Such payment and receipt would indeed have executed
the scheme, but they would not have served to "trammel
up the consequence" of the fraudulent use of the mails.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

