ZWICKER v. BOLL.
Per Curiam.

ZWICKER

ET AL. v. BOLL, DISTRICT ATTORNEY
. OF DANE COUNTY ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 573, Misc.

Decided May 20, 1968.

270 F. Supp. 131, affirmed-

Melvyn Zarr, William M. KunstIer, and Anthony G.
Amsterdam for appellants.
Bronson C. La Follette, Attorney General of Wisconsin,
and William A. Platz, Thomas A. Lockyear, and Charles
A..-Bleck, Assistant Attorneys General, for appellees.
PER CURIAM.

The motion for leave to 1roceed in forma pauperis is
granted. The motion to affirm is also granted and the
judgment is affirmed. Cameron v. Johnson, 390 U. S.
611.
dissenting.
Appellants are graduate and undergraduate students
at the University of Wisconsin and are active in student
political and civil rights organizations. They brought an
action in the District Court for the Western District of
Wisconsin, seeking a declaratory judgment that the Wisconsin disorderly conduct statute ' is overbroad and therefore unconstitutional on its face, or an injunction reMR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

1Wis.

Stat. § 947.01 reads in pertinent part:
"947-.01. Disorderly conduct. Whoever does any of the following

may be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30
days: (1) In a public or private place, engages in violent, abusive,
indecent, profane, boisterous, unreasonably loud, or otherwise disorderly conduct under circumstances in which such conduct tends
to cause or provoke a disturbance . ..."

354,

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
DOUGLA§, J., dissenting.

391 U. S.

straining state criminal prosecutions under that statute
which were pending against them.
Appellants alleged in their complaint that preceding
their arrests they were engaged only in peaceful and constitutionally protected protest activities. Appellants

were protesting against American' policy in Vietnam.
The arrests were made in various buildings of the University of Wisconsin in which appellants and others had
gathered to object to a chemical manufacturer of napalm
being permitted to conduct employment interviews in the
buildings. Appellants were arrested under a "disorderly
conduct" statute. We know that such statutes historically have been used in reprisal against unpopular groups
or persons who espouse unpopular causes. Cf. Brown v.
Louisiana, 383 U. S. 131; Cox v. Louisiana, 379 U. S.
536; Taylor v. Louisiana; 370 U. S. 154; Garner v.
Louisiana, 368 U. S. 157. But that is a practice no
longer permissible now that the First Amendment is
applicable to the States by reason of the Fourteenth.
A three-judge court was convened which dismissed the
complaint after oral argument but without conducting
an evidentiary hearing. Judge Fairchild, concurring, believed that 28 U. S. C. § 2283 2 prohibited the issuance of
an injunction; Judge Doyle, dissenting, was of the contrary opinion. Judge Gordon found it unnecessary to
reach that question, deciding rather to abstain in favor
of the state criminal proceedings.
In addition to attacking the statute as void on its face
for overbreadth, appellants alleged that their arrests were
made and prosecutions instituted for purposes of harassment and in a discriminatory manner on account of their
2 28 U. S. C. § 2283 provides:
"A couit of the United States may not grant an injunction to
stay proceedings in a State court except as expressly authorized by
Act of Congress, or where necessary in aid of its jurisdiction, or to
protect or effectuate its judgments."

ZWICKER v. BOLL.
353

DOUGLAS,

355

J., dissenting.

political beliefs.' Appellees in their answer denied these
allegations and attached copies of the complaints filed
in the state criminal proceedings which alleged that appellants were interfering with classes or interviews in the
3Paragraphs 12 and 13 of appellants' complaint alleged:
."Plaintiffs allege that their arrest under this Statute is basically
for the unlawful purpose of depriving them of their rights of freedom
of speech, assembly, association, and petitioning their Government
for a redress of grievances guaranteed by the First and Fourteenth
Amendments to the United States Constitution, and 42 U. S. C.
§ 1983. Further enforcement of Section 947.01, Wisconsin Statutes,
the Disorderly Conduct Statute, will have the effect of punishing
those plaintiffs now being prosecuted for the exercise of rights, privileges and immunities secured to them by the Constitution and laws
of the United States; has [sic] and will deter plaintiffs and others
similarly situated from the future exercise of. these rights, privileges
and immunities; has encouraged and will encourage defendants and
other State, County or local officials, acting under color of law, to
engage in further acts of intimidation, harassment, threats and other
actions meant to prevent and deter plaintiffs and others similarly
situated from the exercise of these rights, privileges, and immunities.
"Plaintiffs allege that their arrests and prosecutions have been
and are being carried on with the basic purpose and effects of
intimidating and harassing them and punishing them for and deterring them from, exercise of their constitutionally protected rights
of free speech and assembly and association to:
"1. Oppose and protest the policies of the United States Government, the State of Wisconsin, and the University of Wisconsin in
supporting and contributing to the war effort in Vietnam;
"2. Oppose and protest the foreign policy of the United States;
"3. Or otherwise publicly express unpopular and unorthodox views
on public, issues of vital concern.
"This intimidation and harassment of plaintiffs is pursuant to a
policy of political discrimination which is encouraged, followed and
enforced by legislation including the Disorderly Conduct Statute,
Section 947.01 of the Wisconsin Statutes, and by action of the executive or judicial branches of the State of Wisconsin. The Disorderly
Conduct Statute, 947.01, Wisconsin Statutes, is unconstitutional on
its face and as applied. It permits and encourages Wisconsin executive or judicial officials to discriminate against plaintiffs and others
"-')002 0 - F

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

391 U. S.

buildings by speaking in loud voices or by refusing to
leave when requested to do so.
We stated in Dombrowski v. Pfister, 380 U. S. 479, 489490, that the abstention doctrine is inappropriate for
cases in which state statutes are justifiably challenged
either on their face or "as applied for the purpose of discouraging protected activities." In my view, appellants
have adequately alleged in their complaint that their
arrests and prosecutions were effected in bad faith and in
a discriminatory manner in order to punish and discourage
exercise of constitutionally protected rights. Since an
issue of fact is presented, I would remand to the court
below.with directions to conduct a plenary hearing on
4
the point.
Appellants have alleged in their complaint facts surrounding their arrests which suggest harassment solely
on account of the nature of appellants' protest.' Moresimilarly situated by reason of political beliefs- and ideas, and to
intimidate and harass by arrest, detention, brutality, excessive bail
and prosecution or the threat thereof; plaintiffs or all who exercise
their rights of free speech, assembly, association and petitioning
their Government for redress of grievances to express unpopular or
unorthodox views on public issues of vital concern or to protest
and oppose certain policies of the United States, the State of Wisconsin or the University of Wisconsin on vital public issues, contrary.
to the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States."
I Whether § 2283 constitutes a bar to issuance of an injunction
is a question the Court has refrained from deciding in circumstances
where it appears that an injunction might be improper on other
grounds. See Cameron v. Johnson, 390 U. S. 611, 613, n. 3
(majority opinion), 628, n. 5 (dissenting opinion).
5The complaint alleges that appellant Cohen attempted to enter
the university's Commerce Building carrying signs protesting the
use of napalm in Vietnam and the university's policy permitting a
chemical manufacturer of napalm to conduct employment interviews in the building. Cohen, who was alone, was stopped just
inside the door by police officers and told he could not enter the
building with signs. He attempted to enter with the signs and

ZWICKER v. BOLL.
353.

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

over, the criminal complaints filed against several of the
appellants in the state court, and appended to the appellees' answer in this case, raise a strong suspicion that the
arrests and prosecutions were carried out in bad faith.'
was grabbed by an officer and pushed away. Appellee Hansen
(chief of the university's department of protection and security)
was summoned. He allegedly grabbed Cohen's signs and threw
them out the door into the snow. When Cohen asked why he did
that, Hansen allegedly replied, "Because you make me nervous all
the time, you make me nervous." Hansen then allegedly jostled
Cohen and stated, "I don't like you." Cohen and Hansen then
moved to a point in the building where some other students, including appellant Zwicker, were conducting a discussion. Cohen told
the group that his signs had been destroyed; other signs appeared
and one was handed to Cohen. Hansen allegedly -began yelling
that people could not talk in the building and could not have signs,
and then began tearing up the signs. Some jostling and shoving
apparently ensued as police allegedly attempted to grab the signs.
Another university official then told Cohen to leave the building.
When Cohen asked what regulation of the university he had brqken,
the official allegedly replied, "I don't know, but the looks of you
is'enough." Cohen was then arrested and taken from the building.
6 These documents suggest that the arrests may have been made
because the appellants were a nuisance to the university rather than
because of "disorderly conduct under circumstances in which such
conduct tends to cause or provoke a disturbance." Wis. Stat.
§947.01 (1).
For example, while the complaint against appellant Webb formally
charges disorderliness and tendency to cause a disturbance, nothing
in the complaint's statement of "essential facts" supports the charge.
The complaint alleges that Webb "was engaged in a protest demonstration in the Chemical Engineerinag Building on the University of
Wisconsin Madison Campus. Defendant was sitting in an interview
room interfering with interviews which were being conducted for
students of the University for prospective employment. Defendant
was asked to leave several times and -refused." Other complaints
alleged similar facts; still others alleged that certain appellants
spoke in loud voices and thereby disrupted classes, language which
might come within the scope of § 947.01 (1) ("unreasonably loud ...
conduct [tending] to cause or provoke a disturbance"). But if
appellants can demonstrate at an evidentiary hearing that, as they

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

391 U. S.

Where there are allegations of bad faith, harassment,
and discrimination, critical evidence on the matter can
only be drawn out upon cross-examination of the officials
involved.

The question is not the guilt or innocence of

the persons charged, but whether their arrests were made

and prosecutions commenced in bad faith, for purposes of
harassment and in a discriminatory manner. See Cameron v. Johnson, 390 U. S. 611, 619-620, 621. If the
charge that the statute was used in bad faith were shown,
a federal claim would be established.7 And it would not
matter what the state courts later did, for the interim

"continuing harassment" of appellants for exercising their
First Amendment rights would entitle them to relief.
See Dombrowski v. Pfister, 380 U. S., at 490.
For these reasons I would note probable jurisdiction,

vacate the judgment below, and remand the case for a
preliminary hearing on the issue of the use of a disorderly
conduct statute to punish people for expression of their
unpopular views.
allege, the statute has been purposefully or intentionally enforced
against them in a discriminatory manner to suppress the ideas
which they espouse, appellants could not constitutionally be convicted. See Snowden v. Hughes, 321 U. S. 1; Note, Discriminatory
Law Enforcenent and Equal Protection From the Law, 59 Yale L. J.
354 (1950). Cf. Brown v. Louisiana, 383 U. S. 131, 141-142. And
see People v.Darcy, 59 Cal. App. 2d 342, 360, 139 P. 2d 118, 129
(Cal. Dist Ct. App. 1943) (dissenting opinion). ("It is much better
for society that an accused should go free, than for our criminal
processes to be polluted by prosecutions founded oiilrejudice against
and hatred for the political beliefs of the accused:")
742 U. S. C. § 1983 provides:
"Every person who, under color of any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage, of any State or Territory, subjects, or causes
to be subjected, any citizen of the United States or other person
within the jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws, shall be
liable, to the party injured in an action at law, suit in equity, or
other proper proceeding for redress."

