CALIFORNIA v. BRAESEKE

1309

Opinion in Chambers

CALIFORNIA v. BRAESEKE
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-636.

Decided January 31, 1980

Application for a stay of the California Supreme Court's judgment holding
that the State had not carried its burden of showing that respondent
had waived his rights under Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U. S. 436, is granted
pending referral of the matter to the next scheduled full Conference of
this Court.

Circuit Justice.
Applicant, the State of California, has asked me to stay a
judgment of the Supreme Court of California in which that
court held that the State had not carried its burden of showing that respondent had waived the rights to which he is
entitled under Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U. S. 436 (1966). The
respondent, on the other hand, contends that the Supreme
Court of California, which divided by a vote of 4-3 on the
question, decided the question on a state-law ground.
If respondent is correct, that is the end of the matter. My
own reading of the majority and dissenting opinions in the
case leaves me in doubt, since the three dissenters concluded
that "[t]here can be no doubt this twenty-year-old defendant
knowingly and intelligently waived his Miranda protections."
Within the past month we have summarily reversed a judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, holding that it did
not hold the State to a high enough standard of proof as to
the waiver of a defendant's "Miranda" rights. Tague v.
Louisiana, ante, p. 469. On the other hand, last Term we
twice reversed State Supreme Courts for imposing additional
or stricter requirements than we thought were required by
the Miranda decision as a matter of federal constitutional
law. Fare v. Michael C., 442 U. S. 707 (1979); North
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

444 U. S.

Carolina v. Butler, 441 U. S. 369 (1979). In the latter case
we said:
"The question is not one of form, but rather whether
the defendant in fact knowingly and voluntarily waived the
rights delineated in the Miranda case. As we unequivocally said in Miranda, mere silence is not enough. That
does not mean that the defendant's silence, coupled with
an understanding of his rights and a course of conduct
indicating waiver, may never support a conclusion that
a defendant has waived his rights. The courts must
presume that a defendant did not waive his rights; the
prosecution's burden is great; but in at least some cases
waiver can be clearly inferred from the actions and words
of the person interrogated." Id., at 373.
Obviously this Court cannot review all decisions of other
courts which hold that the prosecution has or has not carried
its burden of showing that a defendant waived his "Miranda"
rights. But my reading of the opinion of the Supreme Court
of California in this case makes me think that if it was decided on the basis of federal constitutional law, it comes extraordinarily close to the adoption of a rule that in no cases can
waiver be inferred from the actions and words of the person
interrogated. I believe that four Members of the Court are
sufficiently likely to share this view that I shall grant the stay
requested by the State pending referral of the matter to the
next scheduled full Conference of the Court, at which time
the Court will have the opportunity of deciding whether to
continue the stay, pending the filing of a petition for certiorari
by the State, in order to remand the case to the Supreme
Court of California so that it may say whether its judgment
was based "on an adequate and independent nonfederal
ground." California v. Krivda, 409 U. S. 33, 35 (1972).
The application for stay pending consideration by the full
Court is accordingly granted.

