PORTLEY v. GROSSMAN
Opinion in Chambers

PORTLEY v. GROSSMAN, WARDEN, ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-638 (79-5885).

Decided February 1, 1980

Application by a federal prisoner-as to whom the Parole Commission,
after revoking his parole, had applied current guidelines in establishing
his next presumptive parole date, rather than the standards for reparole
in effect when he was sentenced-for a stay of execution of the Court of
Appeals' judgment denying a habeas corpus writ, pending review on

certiorari in this Court, is denied.

Circuit Justice.
The United States District Court for the Central District of
California granted applicant's petition for a writ of habeas
corpus and released him from federal custody pending appeal
in the Ninth Circuit. The Ninth Circuit reversed, denying the
writ, and declined to issue an order staying its mandate pending review on certiorari in this Court. Applicant then filed
this request for a stay of execution of the Ninth Circuit's
mandate, scheduled for issuance on February 11, 1980.
In April 1972, after pleading guilty to federal offenses, applicant was sentenced to serve six years in federal custody.
Applicant was released on parole July 1, 1974. During his
parole term, applicant was convicted of two separate offenses
in state court. On June 20, 1978, the Parole Commission held
a hearing and revoked applicant's parole on the basis of the
two convictions. The Commission applied its guidelines currently in force, 28 CFR ยง 2.21 (1978), in establishing applicant's next presumptive parole date, indicating that a customary range of 34 to 44 months would be served before
re-release.
Applicant filed a writ of habeas corpus in federal court, and
the trial judge granted the writ, ordering the Parole Commission to reconsider and determine applicant's parole eligibility
under the standards for reparole in effect when the applicant
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

444 U. S.

was sentenced in April 1972. The Ninth Circuit reversed,
relying on its decision in Rifai v. United States Parole
Comm'n, 586 F. 2d 695 (1978), holding that the Parole
Commission did not violate the constitutional prohibition
against ex post facto laws by failing to rely on the guidelines
in effect at the time of sentencing, rather than at the time
of parole eligibility.
When applicant was sentenced in April 1972, the statutes
then in force provided that if an individual was found to have
violated parole, "the said prisoner may be required to serve
all or any part of the remainder of the term for which he was
sentenced." 18 U. S. C. ยง 4207 (1970 ed.). Now, asin 1972, the
Commission's determination to grant or deny parole is "committed to agency discretion." 18 U. S. C. ยง 4218 (d). The
administrative guidelines articulating the factors relied on by
the Commission in making parole and reparole decisions have
changed from those in effect at the time of applicant's sentencing. But even assuming for purposes of this application
that the Ex Post FactoClause applies to parole in the manner it
does to trial and sentence, the changes in issue are not
impermissible, as applicant contends. In Dobbert v. Florida,
432 U. S. 282, 293 (1977), this Court held that the prohibition
of ex post facto laws does not extend to every change of law
that "may work to the disadvantage of a defendant." It is
intended to secure "substantial personal rights" from retroactive deprivation and does not "limit the legislative control of
remedies and modes of procedure which do not affect matters
of substance." Ibid.
The guidelines operate only to provide a framework for
the Commission's exercise of its statutory discretion. The
terms of the sentence originally imposed have in no way been
altered. Applicant cannot be held in confinement beyond the
term imposed by the judge, and at the time of his sentence he
knew that parole violations would put him at risk of serving
the balance of his sentence in federal custody. The guidelines,
therefore, neither deprive applicant of any pre-existing right

PORTLEY v. GROSSMAN
1311

1313

Opinion in Chambers

nor enhance the punishment imposed. The change in guidelines assisting the Commission in the exercise of its discretion
is in the nature of a procedural change found permissible in
Dobbert, supra.
Since I do not believe that applicant is being held in custody
in violation of the Constitution, I deny the application for a
stay.

