OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Counsel for Parties.

305 U. S

GENERAL TALKING PICTURES CORPORATION v.
WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 1. Reargued October 19, 20, 1938.-Decided November 21, 1938.
1. The owner of a patent may lawfully restrict his licensee to manu-

facture and sale of the patented invention for use in only one or
some of several distinct fields in which it is useful, excluding him
from the others. P. 125.
2. Where a licensee, so restricted, makes and sells the patented article for a use outside the scope of his license, he is an infringer;
and his vendee, buying with knowledge of the facts, is likewise
an infringer. P. 127.
3. In this case, the Court has no occasion to consider (a) what the
rights of the parties would have been if the articles embodying
the patented invention had been manufactured under the patent
and had passed into the hands of a purchaser in the ordinary channels of trade; or (b) the effect of a notice attached to articles
lawfully made and sold under license of the patent-owner, and
which purports to restrict their use. Id.
91 F. 2d 922, affirmed.

In this case there were several suits for infringements
of patents relating to vacuum tube amplifiers. The court
below was affirmed at the last term; but a rehearing was
granted on some of the questions said to be involved.
304 U. S. 175, 546, 587.
Messrs. Samuel E. Darby, Jr. and Ephrain Berliner,
with whom Mr. Joseph J. Zeiger was on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Mcrrell E. Clark, with whom Mr. Hen~ry R. Ashton

was on the brief, for respondents.
By leave of Court, Solicitor General Jackson, Assistant
Attorney Geceral Arnold and Mr. Charles E. Clark filed

a brief on behalf of the United States as aniicus curiae,

GENERAL PICTURES CO. v. ELECTRIC CO.
124

125

Opinion of the Court.

contending that the two questions upon which the rehearing was granted should be answered in the negative.
MR. JUSTICE ]BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In this case, we affirmed on May 2, 1938, 304 U. S.
175, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, 91
F. 2d 922, which held that petitioner had infringed certain patents relating to vacuum tube amplifiers. On
May 31st, we granted a rehearing, 304 U. S. 587, upon
the following questions which had been presented by
the petition for certiorari.
1. Can the owner of a- patent, by means thereof, restrict the use made of a device manufactured under the
patent, after the device has passed into the hands of a
purchaser in the ordinary channels of trade, and full
consideration paid therefor?
2. Can a patent owner, merely by a "license notice"
attached to a device made under the patent, and sold in
the ordinary channels of trade, place an enforceable restriction on the purchaser thereof as to the use to which
the purchaser may put the device?
Upon further hearing we are of opinion that neither
question should be answered. For we find that, while
the devices embody the inventions of the patents in suit,
they were not manufactured or sold "under the patent[s]" and did not "pass into the hands of a purchaser
in the ordinary channels of trade."
These are the relevant facts. Amplifiers embodying
the invention here involved are useful in several distinct fields. Among these is (a) the commercial field
of sound recording and reproducing, which embraces
talking picture equipment for theatres, and (b) the private or home field, which embraces radio broadcast reception, radio amateur reception and radio experimental
reception. For the commercial field exclusive licenses
had been granted by the patent pool to Western Electric

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

Company and Electrical Research Products, Inc. For
the private or home field the patent pool granted nonexclusive licenses to about fifty manufacturers. Among
these was American Transfofmer Company. It was
licensed
"solely and only to the extent and for the uses hereinafter specified and defined
to manufacture...,
and to sell only for radio amateur reception, radio experimental reception and radio broadcast reception . . .
licensed apparatus so manufactured by the Licensee ..
The license provided further:
"Nothing herein contained shall be regarded as conferring upon the Licensee either expressly or by estoppel, implication, or otherwise, a license to manufacture or sell any
apparatus except such as may be manufactured by the
Licensee in accordance with the express provisions of this
Agreement."
Transformer Company, knowing that it had not been
licensed to manufacture or to sell amplifiers for use in
theatres as part of talking picture equipment, made for
that commercial use the amplifiers in controversy and sold
them to Pictures Corporation for that commercial use.
Pictures Corporation ordered the amplifiers and purchased
them knowing that Transformer Company had not been
licensed to make or sell them for such use in theatres.
Any use beyond the valid terms of a license is, of course,
an infringement of a patent. Robinson on Patents, ยง 916.
If where a patented invention is applicable to different
uses, the owner of the patent may legally restrict a licensee
to a particular field and exclude him from others, Tran,former Company was guilty of an infringement when it
made the amplifiers for, and sold them to, Pictures Corporation. And as Pictures Corporation ordered, purchased and leased them knowing the facts, it also was an
infringer.

GENERAL PICTURES CO. v. ELECTRIC CO.
124

127

Opinion of the Court.

The question of law requiring decision is whether the
restriction in the license is to be given effect. That a
restrictive license is legal seems clear. Mitchell v. Hawley, 16 Wall. 544. As was said in United States v. General
Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476, 489, the patentee may grant
a license "upon any condition the performance of which
is reasonably within the reward which the patentee by the
grant of the patent is entitled to secure." The restriction
here imposed is of that character. The practice of granting licenses for a restricted use is an old one, see Rubber
Company v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788, 799, 800; Gamewell
Fire-Alarm Telegraph Co. v. Brooklyn, 14 F. 255. So far
as appears, its legality has never been questioned. The
parties stipulated that
"it is common practice where a patented invention is applicable to different uses, to grant written licenses to
manufacture under United States Letters Patents restricted to one or more of the several fields of use permitting the exclusive or non-exclusive use of the invention by
the licensee in one field and excluding it in another field."
As the restriction was legal and the amplifiers were
made and sold outside the scope of the license the effect
is precisely the same as if no license whatsoever had been
granted to Transformer Company. And as Pictures Corporation knew the facts, it is in no better position than if
it had manufactured the amplifiers itself without a license.
It is liable because it has used the invention without
license to do so.
We have consequently no occasion to consider what the
rights of the parties would have been if the amplifier had
been manufactured "under the patent" and "had passed
into the hands of a purchaser in the ordinary channels of
trade." Nor have we occasion to consider the effect of a
"licensee's notice" which purports to restrict the use of
articles lawfully sold.
Affirmed.
[Over.]

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration

or decision of the case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting.

Almost a century ago, this Court asserted, and time
after time thereafter it has reasserted, that when an article described in a patent is sold and "passes to the hands
of a purchaser, it is no longer within the limits of the
monopoly. It passes outside of it, and is no longer under
Contracts
the protection of the act of Congress.
in relation to it are regulated by the laws of the State, and
are subject to State jurisdiction." '
1

Bloomer v. McQuewan, 14 How. 539, 549-50; see, Chaffee v.
Boston Belting Co., 22 How. 217, 223; Mitchell v. Hawley, 16 Wall.
544, 547; Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453; Wade v. Metcalf, 129 U. S.
202, 205; Poesch v. Graff, 133 U. S. 697, 702; Hobbie v. Jennison,
149 U. S. 355; Morgan Envelope Co. v. Albany Paper Co., 152 U. S.
425; Keeler v. Standard Folding Bed Co., 157 U. S. 659; Bauer & Cie
v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1; Straus v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 243
U. S. 490; Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Co., 243
U. S. 502; Boston Store v. American Graphophone Co., 246 U. S. 8.
The rule asserted in these cases is in accord with the views of Thomas
Jefferson who served as a member of the first Patent Board established by the first Patent Act of 1790 (1 Stat. 109) and who also
drafted the comprehensive Patent Law of 1793 (1 Stat. 318). See,
"The Jeffersonian Cyclopedia," p. 680 (Funk and Wagnalls, 1900).
The Acts of 1790 and 1793 granted patentees for fourteen years the
exclusive right "of making, constructing, using and vending to others
to be used." Mr. Jefferson, referring to the general rules adopted
by the first Patent Board, said: "One of these [rules] was, that a
machine of which we were possessed, might be applied by every man
to any use of which it is susceptible, and that this right ought not to
be taken from him and given to a monopolist, bccause the first
perhaps had occasion so to apply it. Thus a screw for crushing
plaster might be employed for crushing corn-cobs. And a chain-pump
for raising water might be used for raising wheat: this being merely
a change of application." "The Writings of Thomas Jefferson," Vol.
VI, H. A. Washington, Editor, p. 181 (Published by Order of the Joint

Committee of Congress on the Library, 1861).

After the Patent

Board's duties devolved upon the courts, Mr. Jefferson suggested that

GENERAL PICTURES CO. v. ELECTRIC CO.
124

BLACK,

129

J., dissenting.

A single departure from this judicial interpretation of
the patent statute 2 was expressly overruled within five
years, and this Court again reasserted that commoditiesonce sold-were not thereafter "subject to conditions as
to use" imposed by patent owners.3 In result, the judgment here is a second departure from the traditional
judicial interpretation of the patent laws.
As a consequence of the return to the interpretation
of the patent statutes previously repudiated and expressly overruled, petitioner is enjoined from making full
use of, and must account in triple damages for using
the rule be "adopted by the judges" that "the purchaser of the right
to use the invention should be free to apply it to every purpose of
which it is susceptible." Id., p. 372. (Italics supplied.)
United States v. General Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476, relied on by
the majority here, was not a suit for infringement of-a patent, but
was an action by the United States under the anti-trust laws. The
opinion was written by Chief Justice Taft and applied some of the
reasoning of the Button-Fastener case, 77 F. 288, in which he had
agreed as Circuit Judge to the opinion of Circuit Judge Lurton.
Later, this Court in Henry v. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1, with the then
Justice Lurton writing the opinion, followed the Button-Fastenercase.
Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Co., supra, expressly
overruled and repudiated the doctrine of the Dick case. In effect, the
judgment here once more revives the doctrine of the Button-Fastener
case.
The majority opinion also relies upon Mitchell v. Hawley, supra.
It is significant that in the Hawley case the patentee never licensed
or transferred his exclusive right to sell; and the license conveyed
only "the exclusive right to make and use 'and to license to others
the right to use . . .'" 16 Wall., at 548. That case, therefore, does
not justify the judgment here where the patentee's power to vend
was both transferred and exercised.
'Henry v. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1, decided March 11, 1912.
'Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Co., supra, 516,
Similarly, the exercise of the right to vend exhausts the right under
a patent to control the price at which an article claimed in the
patent may subsequently be sold. Bauer & Cie v. O'Donnell; Straus
v. Victor Talking Machine Co.; Boston Store v. American Graphophone Co., supra.
105537*-39--9

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

tubes and amplifiers which he owns. He became the
owner of the tubes by purchase from various retailers
authorized by respondents to sell in the open market.
He became the owner of the amplifiers by purchase from
a manufacturer who-having the complete right to make
them-had contracted to sell only for limited uses." The
departure here permits the patentee-by virtue of his
contract with the manufacturer-to restrict the uses to
which this purchaser and owner may put his tubes and
amplifiers.
Transformer Company was authorized by the patentee
to make and to sell amplifiers. It did make such amplifiers-of a standard type usable in many fields,' they
"License Agreement.

".

.

. That Whereas the Licensors represent

that they severally own and/or have the right to grant licenses under
various United States Letters Patent relating to Power Supply and to
Power Amplifier Units, hereinafter termed Licensed Apparatus,...
"1. Each of the Licensors hereby grants under all of the United
States Patent useful in the Licensed Apparatus, owned by it and/or
with respect to which it has the right to grant licenses, . . . solely

and only to the extent and for the uses hereinafter specified and
defined, a personal, indivisible, non-transferable and non-exclusive
license to the Licensee to manufacture at its factory . .

.;

and not

elsewhere without previous written permission obtained from the
Radio Corporation, and to sell only for radio amateur reception, radio
experimental reception, and radio broadcast reception throughout the
United States and its territories or dependencies, Licensed Apparatus
so manufactured by the Licensee, . . ."

(Italics supplied.)

Reason-

ably interpreted, this contract grants the right to make everything
described in the patents; the sole limitation on the right to make
relates to the place of manufacture. The contract grants the right
to sell the manufactured articles with an attempt by notice to restrict
their use in the hands of owners to whom they are sold.
'One of respondents' officials testified: "These things, these vacuum
tubes and the circuits on which we have patents, are useful in various
of these fields and applicable to many fields. And if we granted
licenses not restricted to any particular field, the same things could
be used in these other fields." The injunction sustained here was
decreed by the District Judge on the basis of his conclusion that the

GENERAL PICTURES CO. v. ELECTRIC CO.
124

131

BLACK, J., dissenting.

became its property when made, were sold to and became
the property of petitioner. The prior opinion in this case,
both courts below and the, opinion on this rehearing, all
refer to the transaction between Transformer Company
and petitioner as a sale. Even the very contract authorizing the Transformer Company to make and sell
the amplifiers provided "That for the purpose of this
agreement all Licensed Apparatus shall be considered as
'sold' when the Licensed Apparatus has been billed out,
or if not billed out, when it has been delivered, shipped,
or mailed."
Notice to the purchaser in any form could not-under
the patent law-limit or restrict the use of the amplifiers
after they were sold ' and knowledge by both vendor and
purchaser that the articles were purchased for use outside the "field" for which the vendor had been'given the
right to sell, made the transaction between them no less
a sale.7 Had petitioner-after making the purchasedecided not to use these amplifiers in the forbidden fields,
or had they been destroyed prior to such use, certainly
the mere state of mind of the parties at the time of sale
would not have made them both infringers.
Indeed, petitioner could use the amplifiers at all only
in combination with tubes which it purchased on the
open market from retailers authorized by respondents to
sell. Therefore, even if the state of mind of vendor and
purchaser were material, Transformer Company could
amplifiers put to commercial use by petitioner could also be used
"for experimental or radio amateur use" as the patentee had desired.
16 F. Supp. 293, 303. Thus, it appears that the very amplifiers
made and sold to petitioner were suitable for all "fields."
6 "The statutes relating to patents do not provide for any such
notice and it can derive no aid from them." Motion Picture Patents
Co. case, supra, 509; Bauer & Cie v. O'Donnell, supra; Straus case,
supra; Boston Store case, supra; Carbice Corporation v. American
Patents Corp., 283 U. S. 27.
'Hobbie v. Jennison, supra; Keeler case, supra; Straus case, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

be considered an infringer only because it sold a commodity which might-depending on possible events after
the sale-be used in infringing combination with another
lawfully purchased commodity. The patent law was not
intended to accomplish such result.'
Petitioner has persistently contended throughout this
litigation that no existing trade practice permits a patentee-under guise of a "license"-to extend his monopoly to commodities after sale, and has not stipulated
otherwise.9 Neither stipulation nor practice could justify
'Cf., Morgan Envelope Co. v. Albany Paper Co., supra.
9The negotiations for stipulation were as follows:
"Mr. Neave: Mr. Darby, will you agree that it is common practice where a patented invention is applicable to different uses, to
grant written licenses under United States patents restricted to one
or more of the several fields of use, permitting exclusive or non-exclusive use of the invention by the licensee in one field and excluding its
use in another field?
"Mr. Darby: I do not agree. As a matter of fact I believe that
just the opposite or the contrary is true."
"Mr. Darby: . . . Mr. Ashton called me up and told me that Mr.
W. H. Davis had entered into such a stipulation in the Independent
Wireless Case, and asked me if I would do the same thing. I told
him I could not conscientiously, because not only could I not agree
that that was the common practice, but I know I thoroughly disagree
with [it] whether it was or not. In other words I was confident that
was not the common practice. In my own case, I know I would not
allow my own clients to do it, because I did not think it was legal."
"Mr. Darby: I am willing to stipulate it, if it will be of any
assistance to Mr. Ashton, that it is, if he tells me it is, the common
practice of the Western Electric Company and the Radio Corporation
to do that."
"Mr. Darby: It is stipulated that it is common practice where a
patented invention is applicable to different uses, to grant written
licenses to manufacturers under United States Letters Patents restricted to one or more of the several fields of use permitting the

GENERAL PICTURES CO. v. ELECTRIC CO.
124

BLACK,

133

J., dissenting.

extension of patent monopoly beyond the limits of legality fixed by Congress and recognized by this Court for
over three-quarters of a century. "The statutory authority to grant the exclusive right to 'use' a patented
machine . . . is precisely the same, as the authority to
grant the exclusive right to 'vend,' . . ."10 A widespread
practice of restricting the resale price of articles described
in patents" did not prevent this Court from holding that
once the statutory right to vend has been exercised "the
added restriction is beyond the protection and purpose
of the act." 1 Similarly, a "common practice . . .to
grant written licenses . . . restricted to one or more . . .
fields of use" cannot prevent the application of "that line
of cases in which this court from the beginning has held
that a patentee who has parted With a patented machine
by passing title to a purchaser has placed. the article
beyond the limits of the monopoly secured by the patent
act." 'MR.JUSTICE REED

joins in this dissent.

exclusive or non-exclusive use of the invention by the licensee in one
field and excluding its use in another field. I stipulate that and I
urge, however, objection to its receipt for any evidential purpose, as
irrelevant and immaterial what the common practice is, on the issue
of law as to whether or not it is legal."
"o
Motion Picture Patents Co. case, supra, 516.
"See, "Emancipation of Patented Articles," Walter H. Chamberlin,
6 Ill. Law Review, 357.
Bauer & Cie case, supra, 17.
23Id.

