376

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

305 U. S.

What findings or order would thus be made became a
matter of conjecture and in any event these and the manner of arriving at them would be subject to any justified
criticism.
As the substantial question is presented by the order of
June 10th, the writ of certiorari in No. "182 is dismissed.
The order of June 10th in No. 183 is affirmed.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS did not hear the argument and
took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.
PATTERSON v. STANOLIND OIL & GAS CO.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 113. Argued December 7, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.
1. The owner-lessor of the mineral rights in a tract of land on which
was a producing oil well was not deprived of property rights in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, nor were his contractual
rights impaired, by an order of the Oklahoma Corporation Commission, made after due hearing and pursuant to c. 59, Oklahoma
Session Laws, 1935, whereby part-of his land, with the well, was
included in the same 10-acre well-spacing and drilling unit with
land of other owner-lessors, and whereby he was obliged, under
ยง 4 (c) of the statute, to share with them in one-eighth of the
production from the well, in proportion to their respective acreages
in such unit-it being assumed, as found by the Commission, that
there is a common source of supply, and that establishment of
the units will tend to effect proper drainage of the oil pool, result in uniform withdrawal and greatest ultimate recovery of oil,
conserve reservoir energy, and protect the relative rights of the
leaseholders and royalty-owners in the common source of supply.
P. 377.
2. Contention that regulatory provisions of c. 59, Okla. Sess. Laws,
1935, authorizing the State Corporation Commission to fix wellspacing and drilling units are void for indefiniteness---=held with-

out merit. P. 379.

PATTERSON v. STANOLIND CO.
376

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL from 182 Okla. 155; 77 P. 2d 83, dismissed for
want of a substantial federal question.

Mr. R. J. Roberts, with whom Messrs. A. S. Norvell and
W. M. Haulsee were on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. Guy H. Woodward, James A. Veasey, and Ray
S. Fellows were on a brief for appellees.
By leave of Court, Mr. Earl Foster filed a brief as
amicus curiae, on behalf of the Oklahoma Corporation
Commission, in support of appellees.
PER CURIAM.

In this suit, brought to recover his share of oil royalties,
the plaintiff challenged the validity, under the contract
clause and the due process and equal protection clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution,
of the Well-Spacing Act of the State of Oklahoma (Chap.
59, Okla. Sess. Laws 1935) and an order made thereunder
by the Corporation Commission of that State. The Supreme Court of the State, affirming the judgment of the
District Court with a modification immaterial here, sustained the validity of the statute and order. 182 Okla.
155; 77 P. 2d 83. The plaintiff brings this appeal.
The Corporation Commission fixed the boundaries of
the common source of oil supply in the North Wellston
area in Lincoln County, Oklahoma, so as to include 520
acres, and authorized ten-acre well-spacing units within
that area. The well in question is in the approximate
center of one of these ten-acre units. That unit consists
of 61/ acres which lie in tract "A" and 33/ acres in tract
"B," these tracts being in separate ownership. The well
is located on tract "A." The statute, ยง 4 (c), provides:
"In the event a producing well, or wells, is completed
upon a unit where there are two or more separately owned

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

tracts, any royalty owner, or group of royalty owners,
holding the royalty interest under a separately owned
tract, shall share in one-eighth (%) of all the production
from the well or wells drilled within the unit in the proportion that the acreage of their separately owned tract
bears to the entire acreage of the unit."
Under that provision, as construed by the state court,
the owners of the mineral rights in the 33/4 acres of the
drilling unit are permitted to share with the plaintiff,
and his co-owners of the mineral rights in the other 61/4
acres of the unit, the oil and gas produced from the well
although it is located entirely upon the surface of the 61/
acre tract. Plaintiff contends that this distribution
among the owners of the 3%Y acres works an unconstitutional deprivation of his property and an impairment of
his contractual rights. The Corporation Commission
found as follows:
"That the said well as above described is located in the
approximate center of a 10-acre tract of land, and that taking into consideration the depth of the well now producing
in said common source of supply, the thickness, porosity,
and permeability of the producing sand, the nature and
character of the reservoir energy, the formations encountered in the drilling of the well, and the history and productive characteristics of wells in other common sources of
supply which have similar formations, and from other
geological and scientific information and data as shown
by the records, the Commission finds that a well-spacing
and drilling unit of 10 acres and of uniform size should be
established in the said North Wellston pool; that the
same would tend to effect the proper drainage of
oil from said pool, and would result in uniform withdrawal
and in the greatest ultimate recovery of oil, and would
best conserve reservoir energy, and would protect the relative rights of the leaseholders and royalty owners in said
common source of supply."

PATTERSON v. STANOLIND CO.
376

Opinion of the Court.

It is admitted that the Commission made its findings
and order after due hearing. The evidence underlying its
findings is not in the record. Accordingly, as the state
court said, it must be assumed "that the source of supply
of the well in question is common to the land adjoining it
and that said pool underlies not only the 61/4 acres of land
on which the well is located but that it also extends beneath the 33 acre tract." In that view the state court
applied well settled principles in denying plaintiff's contention under the Fourteenth Amendment (Ohio Oil Co.
v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic
Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61; Walls v. Midland Carbon Co., 254
U. S. 300; Bandini Petroleum Co. v. Superior Court, 284
U. S. 8; Champlin Refining Co. v. CorporationCommission, 286 U. S. 210) and under the contract clause (Rast
v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342, 362, 363; Union
Dry Goods Co. v. GeorgiaPublic Service Corp., 248 U. S.
372, 376; Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374,390, 391; Stephenson v. Binford, 287 U. S. 251, 276; Home Building &
Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 435, 436). The
argument, that the regulatory provisions of the statute
authorizing the Commission to make its order fixing the
drilling unit are void for indefiniteness, is without merit.
Bandini v. Superior Court, supra; Champlin Refining
Co. v. Corporation Commission, supra.
In the light of our previous decisions, the plaintiff has
failed to raise a substantial federal question and the appeal is dismissed for the want of jurisdiction. Hannis
Distilling Co. v. Baltimore, 216 U. S. 285, 288; Levering
& GarriguesCo.. v. Morrin, 289 U. S. 103, 105, 106.
Dismissed.

