U. S. v. ALGOMA LUMBER CO.
410

Syllabus.

The contract requirement that the exhibitor is to set
apart the appellee's percentage of the gross receipts "in
trust" is a familiar device for securing payment to the
appellee in the event of the exhibitor's financial embarrassment. But it does not make the exhibitor appellee's
agent, nor does it dispense in law, more than it has in fact;
with the performance of the former's obligation to make
all payments to appellee without the state. The
emphasis placed by § 2 and its various subsections on the
carrying on of business or other specified activities within
the state as the condition of laying the tax, and the fact
that the exhibitors' receipts are taxed in their hands under
§ 2 (g), lead to the conclusion that there was no legislative purpose in cases like the present to tax gross receipts
apart from the business or activity of collecting them,
carried on within the state. We cannot say that the court
below was wrong in that conclusion.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. ALGOMA LUMBER CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 245.

Argued December 16, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.

1. Contracts for the sale to a lumber company of timber on unallotted land of the Klamath Indian Reservation, executed by the
Superintendent of the Klamath Indian school for and on behalf
of the Klamath Indians, pursuant to § 7 of the Act of June 25,
1910 and under regulations and with the approval of the Secretary
of the Interior, the moneys received under the contracts being
deposited pursuant to statutory requirement in the United States
Treasury, to be held and used by the Secretary for the benefit of
the Indians, held not contracts of the United States, A suit
* Together with No. 246, United States v. Forest Lumber Co., and
No. 247, United States v. Lamm Lumber Co., also on writs of certiorari to the Court of Claims.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Counsel for Parties.

305 U. S.

against the United States to recover alleged overpayments made
under such contracts was therefore not within the jurisdiction of
the Court of Claims. P. 421.
2. Likewise, contracts for the sale on similar terms of timber on
restricted allotted lands, entered into by individual allottees as
prescribed by § 8 of the Act of 1910, the payments thereunder
being deposited by the Superintendent in private state banks and
credited on his own books to the allottees according to their
respective interests, were not obligations of the United States
enforceable in the Court of Claims. P. 423.
3. Exercise of its plenary power to take appropriate measures to
safeguard the disposal of property of which the Indians are the
substantial owners, does not necessarily involve the assumption
of contractual obligations by the Government. Their assumption
is not to be presumed in the absence of any action taken by the
Government or on its behalf indicating such a purpose. P. 421.
4. Receipt by the Treasury of the United States, of payments made
to the Superintendent for the use and benefit of the Indians, even
though payment was made under protest, gave rise to no contract
for repayment implied in fact on the part of the United States,
and did not make suit therefor cognizable in the Court of Claims.
P. 423.
5. Infirmities, if any, in the contracts of the lumber companies with
the Indians could not impose on the United States a liability
which the contracts do not purport to undertake in its behalf.
P. 423.
6. By the Treaty with the Klamath Tribe of February 17, 1870, the
United States acquired no beneficial ownership in the tribal lands
or their proceeds; and whatever the nature of the legal interest
acquired by the Government as the implement of its control, substantial ownership remained with the tribe as it existed before the
treaty. P. 420.
86 Ct. Cls. 226, 188, 171, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 583, to review judgments of the
Court of Claims in three suits against the United States
to recover the amount of alleged overpayments made
upon contracts for the sale of timber on Indian lands.
Mr. Paul A. Sweeney, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Whitaker, and Mr.

U. S. v. ALGOMA LUMBER CO.
415

Opinion of the Court.

James J. Sweeney were on the brief, for the United
States.
Messrs. Carl D. Matz and William S. Bennet, with
whom Mr. Jesse Andrews was on the brief, for respondents
in Nos. 245 and 246.
Mr. Ralph H. Case for respondent in No. 247.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Decision of these cases turns on the question whether
certain contracts for the sale of timber on land of the
Klamath Indian Reservation in Oregon, executed by the
Superintendent of the Klamath Indian School by authority of an Act of Congress, are contracts of the United
States upon which suits may be maintained -in the Court
of Claims.
Section 7 of the Act of Congress of June 25, 1910, c. 431,
36 Stat. 855, 857, provides that the "timber on unallotted
lands of any Indian reservation may be sold under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior,
and the proceeds from such sales shall be used for the
benefit of the Indians of the reservation in such manner
as he may direct." Section 8 of the Act provides that
"the timber on any Indian allotment held under a trust
or other patent containing restrictions on alienations,
may be sold by the allottee with the consent of the Secretary of the Interior and the proceeds thereof shall be
paid to the allottee or disposed of for his benefit under
regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the
InteriorY
The present suits were brought in the Court of Claims
by respondents against the United States to recover alleged overpayments of amounts due upon contracts for
the purchase of timber upon certain unallotted and allotted Indian lands in the Klamath Reservation. The con105537°-39-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

tracts were executed pursuant to §§ 7 and 8 of the Act
of 1910 and regulations of the Secretary of the Interior.
They provided that the prices fixed for the timber to be
cut should be readjusted by the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs at intervals of three years, but that permitted
increases in price should "not exceed fifty per cent of
the increase in the average mill run wholesale net value
of lumber . . . during the three years preceding January
1 of the year in which the new prices are fixed."
The Court of Claims in each case found that prices
fixed by the Indian Commissioner had exceeded the permitted increases and that in consequence there had been
an overpayment of the amounts due under the contracts.
It held that they were contracts of the United States and
in each case gave judgment against the government for
the amount of the overpayments. Algoma Lumber Co.
v. United States, 86 Ct. Cls. 226; Forest Lumber Co. v.
United States, 86 Ct. Cls. 188; Lamm Lumber Co. v.
United States, 86 Ct. Cls. 171. We granted certiorari,
October 10, 1938, the questions involved being of public
importance in the administration by the United States of
Indian lands and in defining the jurisdiction of the Court
of Claims.
The petitions for certiorari challenged the jurisdiction
of the Court of Claims in terms sufficiently broad to raise
the question, not considered below or argued here,
whether, assuming the contracts were obligations of the
United States, as the court below held, suits to recover the
overpayments are upon quasi contracts or contracts "implied in law" not within the jurisdiction conferred on the
Court of Claims by § 145(1) of the Judicial Code, 28 U.
S. C. § 250(1).1 Merritt v. United States, 267 U. S. 338;
. The Court of Claims shall have jurisdiction to hear and
determine the following matters:
"First.

All claims founded upon ...

any contract, express or

implied, with the Government of the United States . . ."

U. S. v. ALGOMA LUMBER CO.
415

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Minnesota Investment Co., 271 U. S.
212; Goodyear Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 287. But
the question chiefly discussed in brief and argument before us is whether the contracts in suit are obligations of
the United States, so as to give rise to claims founded
upon them within the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims.
As determination of this question is decisive of the case,
we do not consider whether, even if the contracts were
obligations of the United States, the claims are for the
recovery of unjust enrichment upon contracts "implied in
law" not within the jurisdiction of the court.
For purposes of decision the contracts in No. 245,
United States v. Algoma Lumber Co., may be taken as
typical of those in the other cases. Pursuant to §§ 7 and
8 of the Act of 1910 and regulations of the Secretary of the
Interior adopted June 29, 1911, timber upon designated
lands within the Klamath Reservation was offered for sale.
Bids submitted by respondent, Algoma Company, were
accepted, and on July 28, 1917, the contract of sale was
executed by the company and by the Superintendent of
the Klamath Indian School, pursuant to departmental
regulations, and was approved by the Assistant Secretary
of the Interior on September 14, 1917.
The area designated embraced approximately 15,700
acres, all of which were unallotted except 2,240 acres of
allotted lands. The contract provided for the sale of the
timber on the unallotted lands upon terms and conditions
not now material. It required that the purchase money be
paid to the Superintendent "for the use and benefit of the
Klamath Tribe," and that the Algoma Company enter
into separate contracts with the individual Indian allottees
who desired to sell the timber standing on their allotments. In carrying out the provisions of the contract the
Algoma Company, with the approval of the Secretary,
entered into separate contracts with twenty-one indi-

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

vidual allottees for purchase of the timber on their allotments upon terms similar to those of the contract for the
purchase of timber on the unallotted lands.
As required by the contracts, the purchase payments by
the Algoma Company, including the alleged overpayments, were made to the Superintendent for the benefit
of the Indians. Pursuant to the Act of March 3, 1883, 22
Stat. 582, 590, as amended May 17, 1926, 44 Stat. 560, all
moneys received from the unallotted lands, less expenses,
were deposited by the Superintendent in the treasury of
the United States in an account designated "Indian
Moneys, Proceeds of Labor." Payments for timber on the
allotted lands, less expenses, were deposited by the Superintendent in private state banks and credited on his own
books to the allottees according to their respective interests. Act of July 1, 1898, 30 Stat. 571, 595; Act of
April 30, 1908, 35 Stat. 70, 73; Act of June 25, 1910, 36
Stat. 855, 856. All the proceeds of sale are required to be
held and used by the Secretary for the benefit of the
Indians. Act of March 2, 1887, 24 Stat. 449, 463; Act of
May 18, 1916, 39 Stat. 123, 158; Act of Mar. 2, 1907, 34
Stat. 1221; Act of May 25, 1918, 40 Stat. 561, 591.
The Klamath Reservation was set apart as tribal lands
under the Treaty with the Klamath Tribe of February 17,
1870, 16 Stat. 707, from lands immemorially possessed by
them. See United States v. Klamath Indians, 304 U. S.
119, 121. Under the provisions of the treaty and established principles applicable to land reservations created
for the benefit of the Indian tribes, the Indians are beneficial owners of the land and the timber standing upon
it and of the proceeds of their sale, subject to the plenary
power of control by the United States, to be exercised for
the benefit and protection of the Indians. United States
v. Klamath Indians, 304 U. S. 119; cf. United States v.
Candelaria, 271 U. S. 432; Mott v. United States, 283
U. S. 747; Chippewa Indians v. United States, 301 U. S.

U. S. v. ALGOMA LUMBER CO.
415

Opinion of the Court.

358, 375; United States v. Shoshone Tribe, 304 U. S. 111,
116. The United States acquired no beneficial ownership in the tribal lands or their proceeds, and however we
may define the nature of the legal interest acquired by
the government as the implement of its control, substantial ownership remained with the tribe as it existed
before the treaty. United States v. Shoshone Tribe,
supra, 116.
The action of Congress in authorizing the sale of the
timber, and the contracts prescribed under its authority
by departmental regulations and approved by the Secretary, are to be viewed as the means chosen for the exercise
of the power of the government to protect the rights and
beneficial ownership of the Indians. The means are
adapted to that end. Neither the United States nor any
officer purporting to act on its behalf is named a party to
the contract. By its terms the contract is declared to be
entered into "between the Superintendent of the Klamath
Indian School, for and on behalf of the Klamath Indians,
party of the first part" and the Lumber Company, "party
of the second part." It is thus on its face the contract
of the Klamath Indians executed by the Superintendent,
acting as their agent. The form of the contract and the
procedure prescribed for its execution and approval conform to the long-established relationship between the
government and the Indians, under which the government has plenary power to take appropriate measures to
safeguard the disposal of property of which the Indians
are the substantial owners. Exercise of that power does
not necessarily involve the assumption of contractual
obligations by the government. Their assumption is not
to be presumed in the absence of any action taken by the
government or on its behalf indicating such a purpose.
See In re Sanborn, 148 U. S. 222, 227; Turner v. United
States, 248 U. S. 354, 359. In this, as in any other case
of a written contract, those who are parties to and bound

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

by it are to be ascertained by an inspection of the document, and its provisions are controlling in the absence
of some positive rule of law or provision of statute requiring them to be disregarded.
Respondents point only to § 7 of the Act of 1910 and
the regulations prescribed under it as compelling a different result. They argue that the requirements that
the manner of sale be prescribed by the Secretary, that
the contracts be executed by the Superintendent and approved by the Secretary, and that the prices of lumber be
fixed by the Indian Commissioner, indicate a purpose to
make the United States, acting as guardian or trustee of
the Indians through the Secretary and Superintendent,
the contracting party. But, as we have said, all that was
done by the government officials in supervising the execution of the contracts and their performance was consistent
with the exercise of its function as protector of the
Indians without the assumption by the United States of
any obligation to the purchasers of the timber, and no
implied obligation on its part arises from the performance
of that function.
Before the Act of 1910, the Act of February 16, 1889,
25 Stat. 673, had given the President authority, from year
to year, under such regulations as he might prescribe, to
authorize the Indians on reservations or allotments to
sell dead timber, standing or fallen, on such reservations.
The contracts authorized were to be those of the Indians
and not of the United States. See Pine River L6gging

Co. v. United States, 186 U. S. 279.2

The Act of 1910 enlarged the authority conferred by
the earlier act so as to permit the sale of living timber on
2

In some instances Congress has passed special acts conferring

jurisdiction on the Court of Claims to entertain suits brought
against the Indians on their contracts. 35 Stat. 444; 36 Stat. 287;
see Green v. Menominee Tribe, 233 U. S. 558; cf. 26 Stat. 636; 27
Stat. 86; 35 Stat. 457; 36 Stat. 287.

U. S. v. ALGOMA LUMBER CO.
415

Opinion of the Court.

the reservations under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior. It did not command departure
from the earlier practice of selling the timber by contracts
entered into between the Indians and the purchasers, and
it seems clear that in prescribing that the contracts be
entered into with the Indians the Secretary adhered to
this practice, but with the added safeguard that the contracts were to be effected for them through the agency
of the Superintendent who, for many purposes, acts as
the agent of the Indians. See United States v. Sinnott,
26 F. 84, 86; cf. Parks v. Ross, 11 How. 362, 374.
We do not stop to inquire whether the government
could confer authority upon him to execute contracts
binding upon the Indians, or whether the Act of 1910 dispensed with the formalities required of contracts with
the Indians by R. S. § 2103, 25 U. S. C. § 81, omitted in
the case of the present contracts. See Green v. Menominee Tribe, 233 U. S. 558. Infirmities, if any, in respondents' contracts with the Indians could not impose
on the United States a liability which the contracts do
not purport to undertake in its behalf.
As the Court of Claims found that the contracts for
the sale of timber on allotted lands were entered into by
individual allottees as prescribed by § 8 of the Act of
1910, they stand on no different footing, as obligations
of the United States, from the tribal contract or similar
contracts entered into under the Act of 1889.
Since none of the contracts in suit were contracts or
obligations of the United States, it is plain that receipt,
by the Treasury of the United States, of payments made
under them to the Superintendent for "the use and benefit" of the Indians, even though made under protest, gave
rise to no contract for repayment implied in fact on the
part of the United States, and that the cause of action,
if any, is not within the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims. Merritt v. United States, supra; United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

v. Minnesota Investment Co., supra; Goodyear Co. v.
United States, supra.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

and

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO. v. SMITH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 195.

Argued December 15, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.

1. Assumption of risk is not a defense in a suit brought by a seaman under the Jones Act to recover for injuries resulting from
his use, while on duty, of a defective appliance of the ship, when
he chose to use the unsafe appliance, knowing it unsafe, instead
of a safe method of doing his work, which was known to him.
P. 428.
2. In such cases the admiralty rule of comparative negligence applies, in mitigation of damages. P. 431.
96F. 2d 98, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 586, to review the affirmance of a
judgment recovered by the present respondent, a seaman, in an action for personal injuries brought under

the Jones Act.
Mr. Louis Mead Treadwell, with whom Messrs. Henry
B. Potter and John J. Manning were on the brief, for
petitioner.

Mr. George J. Engelman for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question is whether assumption of risk is a defense
in a suit brought by a seaman under the Jones Act to

recover for injuries resulting from his use, while on duty,

