398

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

305 U. S.

fare, but is merely an economic weapon of retaliation;
and that, hence, the Twenty-first Amendment should not
be interpreted as granting power to enact it. Since that
amendment, the right of a State to prohibit or regulate
the importation of intoxicating liquor is not limited by
the commerce clause. As was said in State Board of
Equalization v. Young's Market Co., 299 U. S. 59, 62,
"The words used are apt to confer upon the State the
power to forbid all importations which do not comply
with the conditions which it prescribes." To limit the
power of the states as urged "would involve not a construction of the Amendment, but a rewriting of it." See
also Mahoney v. Joseph riner Corp., 304 U. S. 401; Indianapolis Brewing Co. v. Liquor Control Comm'n, ante,
p. 391.

Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. CONTINENTAL NATIONAL
BANK & TRUST CO., TRUSTEE, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 22. Argued December 5, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.
1. Under the Revenue Act of 1926, suit upon a deficiency assessment must be begun within six years after the assessment.
§ 278 (d). P. 403.
2. Under the Revenue Act of 1926, the time for bringing suit, in
the absence of assessment, to enforce liability of a transferee of
the taxpayer's property is limited to six years, made up of five
years after return, allowed for assessment against taxpayer,
§ 277 (a), and one year thereafter for assessment against transferee. § 280 (b) (1). Id.
3. A suit against transferees of a transferee- of property of a delinquent taxpayer, which is otherwise barred, can not be sustained as timely under §§ 280 and 278 (d) of the Revenue Act of
1926, because brought within six years of the making of an assessment against the first transferee. P. 404.

U. S. v. CONTINENTAL BANK.
398

Opinion of the Court.

4. In determining whether an assessment against a taxpayer's transferee was in time under the Revenue Act of 1926, which allows
six years after the taxpayer's return, §§ 277 (a), 280 (d), but
provides that the running of the limitation shall be suspended
while the Commissioner is prohibited from making assessment and
for 60 days thereafter, § 280 (d), it is held that, the transferee
having died while his petition for review was pending undecided
before the Board of Tax Appeals, and no application for a substitution having been made, it was error to include in the period
of suspension 23 months that elapsed between the death and
the date of an attempted assessment, since the Commissioner was
not precluded during those months, but could have obtained a
dismissal of the Board's proceeding within a reasonable time and
made his assessment. P. 405.
94 F. 2d 81, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 304 U. S. 554, to review the affirmance of a

decree dismissing the amended bill in a suit by the Government against beneficiaries and trustees under a will,
to impress a trust upon the assets of the estate, for the
collection of an income and profits tax, to the extent of
assets transferred to the testator by a corporation against
which the tax was originally assessed.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Messrs.
Sewall Key, F. E. Youngman, and Warner W. Gardner
were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. HerbertPope for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
May 6, 1932, petitioner sued respondents in the federal
court for the northern district of Illinois to enforce a claim
for part of income and profits taxes for 1920 assessed
against an Illinois corporation dissolved in December,
1921. The question for decision is whether the suit is
barred by lapse of time.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

The pertinent substance of the complaint, as amended
February 14, 1937, follows:
In 1919 and 1920, James Duggan, hereafter called the
testator, was the principal stockholder of the Johnson
City & Big Muddy Coal & Mining Company, which owned
a subsidiary corporation. May 16, 1921, these corporations
made consolidated income and profits tax returns for
1920, showing a tax of $5,269.21, which was paid. During
1920 and 1921 the mining company was being dissolved;
it converted its assets into cash and securities and transferred $295,331.64 to testator; he appropriated it to his
own use. Having determined deficiency of $316,620.61
against the company, the commissioner of internal revenue
December 6, 1924 sent notice to it by 60-day letter. The
taxpayer having failed to petition the board of tax appeals
for redetermination, assessment was made against it for
that amount.
April 15, 1926, the commissioner notified testator that
there was proposed for assessment against him the amount
of $295,331.64, constituting his liability, as transferee of
taxpayer's assets, on account of the unpaid balance of its
1920 taxes. June 11, 1926, testator filed with the board
of tax appeals his petition for redetermination. In March,
1929, he died. January 27, 1931, the board made an order
of redetermination in the amount proposed by the commissioner, with interest from, December 6, 1924. The
order was not reviewed. February 14, 1931, the cormmissioner made a jeopardy assessment against the deceased
in the amount fixed by the board as his liability as
transferee.
His will was admitted to probate; a trust company it
named was appointed executor; and, the executor having
been dismissed, one Robinson was, on September 15, 1930,
appointed administrator. Before settlement of the estate, plaintiff, April 24, 1931, filed its claim with the

U. S. v. CONTINENTAL BANK.
398

Opinion of the Court.

administrator. But he paid nothing on account of it
and, making distribution in accordance with the will,
transferred to defendant Henry Duggan $50,000 and to
defendant trustee the rest of the estate, about $1,500,000.
Plaintiff alleged that the assets so distributed had become
impressed with a trust for the payment of its claim
against testator and prayed decree enforcing it against
trustee and beneficiaries under the will to the extent of
assets transferred by the taxpayer to testator, with
interest.
Defendants, June 6, 1933, moved to dismiss the complaint on the ground that the suit was barred by §§ 277,
278, 280, Revenue Act, 1926, as amended, and § 311(b),
Revenue Act, 1928. Plaintiff, January 11, 1937, confessed defendants' motion to dismiss. Then, applying
for leave to amend the complaint, it represented to the
court that amendment was necessary because the allegation that an assessment was made against testator was
omitted from the original bill and was an important fact
in determining whether the present action was timely
brought. Leave having been granted, it immediately.
amended by adding the allegation that, February 14,
1931, the commissioner made against testator the jeopardy assessment above referred to. The complaint was
not otherwise changed. March. 22, 1937, the court sustained defendants' motion and entered decree dismissing
the amended bill of complaint. The circuit court of appeals affirmed. 94 F. 2d 81. This Court granted a writ
of certiorari. 304 U. S. 554.
The question is whether the suit is barred by the statutory provisions on which the motion to dismiss was
based. First to be considered are §§ 277, 278 and 280,
read in connection with applicable provisions of §§ 274
and 279 of the Revenue Act of 1926.'
'44 Stat. 55 et seq.
105537 -39-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

The pertinent substance of these follows:
Within 60 days after notice of the commissioner's determination of deficiency, the taxpayer may file petition
with the board of tax appeals for redetermination; no
assessment or proceeding in court for collection shall be
made or begun until the board's decision has become final.
§ 274 (a).2 The amount redetermined by decision that
has become final shall be assessed and upon his demand
shall be paid to the collector. § 274 (b).
Assessment shall be made within five years after the
return; "no proceedings in court without assessment for
the collection of taxes shall be begun after the expiration
of such period." § 277 (a). The running of the statute of limitations on assessment or proceeding in court
for collection of deficiency shall be suspended for the
period during which the commissioner is prohibited from
making assessment or bringing suit and for 60 days thereafter. § 277 (b). Where the assessment has been made
within the period properly applicable thereto, the tax
may be collected by distraint or proceeding in court "but
only if begun ... within six years after the assessment
of the tax." § 278 (d). If the commissioner believes
that assessment or collection of deficiency will be jeopardized by delay he shall immediately assess the deficiency and "notice and demand shall be made by the
collector for the payment thereof." § 279 (a). Jeopardy assessment may be made whether or not the taxpayer has filed petition with the board. § 279 (c). If
it is made after the board's decision it may be only for
the deficiency determined by the decision. § 279 (d).
The taxpayer may obtain stay of collection of the jeopardy assessment. § 279 (f)-(h).
2The board's decision becomes final upon expiration of the time
(six months after it renders decision) allowed for filing petition for
review by a circuit court of appeals or the court of appeals of the
District of Columbia. §§ 1001, 1005.

U. S. v. CONTINENTAL BANK.
398

Opinion of the Court.

The liability at law or in equity of "a transferee of
property of a taxpayer in respect of the tax" shall be
assessed, collected, and paid in the same manner and subject to the same provisions and limitations as in case
of a deficiency in a tax. § 280 (a). Transferee liability
must be assessed within one year from expiration of the
period of limitation for assessment against. the taxpayer.
§ 280 (b) (1). The running of the period of limitation
on transferee liability shall, after notice to transferee under § 274 (a), be suspended for the period during which
the commissioner is prohibited from making assessment
of that liability and for 60 days thereafter. § 280 (d).
This is not a suit upon assessment of deficiency against
the taxpayer on account of the commissioner's determination as shown in his letter of December 6, 1924. The
time for such a suit, six years after assessment, expired
long before the commencement of this suit. § 278 (d).
United States v. Updike, 281 U. S. 489, 494.
Nor is it a suit authorized to be brought, in absence
of assessment, to enforce liability of a transferee of the
taxpayer's property. The time for bringing such a suit
is six years, made up of five years after return, allowed
for assessment against taxpayer, § 277 (a), and one year
thereafter for assessment against transferee. § 280 (b)
(1). The taxpayer having made its return on May 16,
1921, the six years expired May 16, 1927.
This suit is against transferees under the will of a
transferee of the property of the taxpayer; it is based
on the jeopardy assessment made against testator.
Plaintiff asserts that it had six years after that assessment, or until February 14, 1937, within which to bring
this suit. Its reasoning is that § 280, specifying no period of limitation for collection of liability of a transferee
after it has been assessed, and providing that it shall be
collected subject to the same limitations as in the case of

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

deficiency in a tax, makes applicable the period of limitation upon collection defined in § 278 (d).
But no assessment was made against any of the defendants. None of them is a transferee of the property
of the taxpayer; all are testamentary transferees of the
estate of testator. It is clear that §§ 278 (d) and 280
upon which plaintiff relies are not broad enough to impose on defendants any liability on account of the assessment against the testator.3 And, as already shown, suit
Cf. § 311, Revenue Act of 1928. It provides:
"(a) The amounts of the following liabilities shall, except as hereinafter in this section provided, be assessed, collected, and paid in
the same manner and subject to the same provisions and limitations
as in the case of a deficiency in a tax imposed by this title. . . . (1)
The liability, at law or in equity, of a transferee of property of a
taxpayer, in respect of the tax . . . imposed upon the taxpayer by
this title ...
"(b) The period of limitation for assessment of any such liability
of a transferee . . . shall be as follows: (1) In the case of the liability
of an initial transferee of the property of the taxpayer,-within
one year after the expiration of the period of limitation for assessment against the taxpayer; (2) In the case of the liability of a transferee of a transferee of the property of the taxpayer,-within one
year after the expiration of the period of limitation for assessment
against the preceding transferee, but only if within three years after
the expiration of the period of limitation for assessment against the
taxpayer ;except that if before the expiration of the period of limitations for
the assessment of the liability of the transferee, a court proceeding for
the collection of the tax or liability in respect thereof has been begun
against the taxpayer or last preceding transferee, respectively,-then
the period of limitation for assessment of the liability of the transferee
shall expire one year after the return of execution in the court proceeding."
The report of the Senate Committee on Finance states: "Section 280
of the revenue act of 1926 does not specifically provide any limitation period in the case of a transferee of a transferee of the taxpayer.
Section 311 (b) (2) of the House bill provides, with specific exceptions, that the period for assessment in such case shall be one year
after the expiration of the period of limitation for assessment against

U. S. v. CONTINENTAL BANK.
398

Opinion of the Court.

on assessment against the taxpayer, or suit in absence
of assessment of transferee liability, was by the applicable statutes of limitations barred long before this suit
was brought.
Moreover, the assessment sued on was out of time.
Plaintiff cites § 280 (d) and seeks to apply to the facts
of this case the rule that assessment against transferee
is required to be made within 6 years after return, §§ 277
(a), 280 (b) (1), as follows: The taxpayer made its return May 16, 1921. When, on April 15, 1926, the commissioner notified testator that he proposed to assess
transferee liability against him, there remained 13 months
and a day of the period allowed for making that assessment; the commissioner was prohibited from making the
proposed assessment for the 60-day period within which
testator was permitted to petition for redetermination by
the board and until its decision, January 27, 1931, became
final, June 27, 1931, and for 60 days thereafter, September 25, 1931. §§ 278 (d), 280 (d). Taking in the 13
months and a day, plaintiff had until October 25, 1932
within which to assess testator.
But that calculation is defective for it fails to take into
account any part of the period after appeal to the board
that elapsed between the death of testator in March,
1929, and the assessment, more than 23 months later,
February 14, 1931. Redetermination is granted to safeguard against erroneous exactions by the commissioner.
Suspension of his authority to assess or collect is protection against compulsory payment pending final decision
the preceding transferee. It seemed to the committee that this would
unduly prolong litigation and that there should be a time when
the transferee may know that he is no longer liable to be proceeded
against. A committee amendment therefore provides that in all cases
the tax must be assessed within three years after the expiration of
the period of limitation for assessment against the taxpayer." Senate
Report No. 960, 70th Congress, 1st Session, p. 32.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

upon objections interposed by petitioner. The proceeding is an adversary one in which the party praying relief
by redetermination is petitioner and the commissioner is
respondent. The controversy is brought to issue by petition, answer, and reply that are by the board required
to be definite and certain. Rules 6, 14, 15.' Before its
decision either party, for cause shown, may have the
proceeding dismissed.' Rule 31. And in case of petitioner's death, the board may order substitution of proper
parties. Rule 37.
No personal representative of testator nor any other
person applied for substitution of a party to carry on the
proceeding in the place of the deceased testator, and none
was ordered. The commissioner failed to obtain or seek
dismissal for lack of a necessary party or want of prosecution. Cf. Rusk v. Commissioner (CCA 7) 53 F. 2d 428,
430. Plaintiff does not contend that, no substitution
having been applied for or made, the commissioner was
not. entitled to an order of dismissal. Nor does it suggest anything to support the assumption, made in its calculation of time and throughout its argument, that suspension of commissioner's authority to assess continued
through the period of more than 23 months between testator's death and the assessment. There is no ground on
which it may be held that Congress intended in case of
death of petitioner, where no application for or order of
substitution is made, indefinitely to continue suspension
Revised to November 1, 1929. Rules 31 and 37 are numbered
21 and 23 in the present edition of the Rules.
'Section 906 (c), Revenue Act of 1926, provides: "If a petition
for a redetermination of a deficiency has been filed by the taxpayer,
a decision of the Board dismissing the proceeding shall . . be
considered as its decision that the deficiency is the amount determined by the Commissioner. An order specifying such amount
shall be entered in the records of the Board unless the Board can
not determine such amount from the pleadings." 44 Stat. 107.

U. S. v. CONTINENTAL BANK.
398

STONE,

J., dissenting.

of the commissioner's authority to assess. Equally unreasonable would it be to hold that suspension of the commissioner's authority to assess the asserted transferee
liability continued after testator's death for more than a
reasonable time within which, no substitution having
been applied for or made, to obtain dismissal. Unquestionably that time and more had expired long before the
assessment was made.
As the suit is barred by provisions of the Revenue Act
of 1926, we need not consider § 311 (b) of the Revenue
Act of 1928, upon which defendants also relied.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE STONE.

I think the judgment should be reversed.
The first transferee was a "taxpayer" within the meaning of § 280 (a) (1), since he was liable under the provisions of the revenue law to pay the tax and, like other
taxpayers, was subject to assessment and distraint as well
as to a suit for recovery of the tax. United States v. Updike, 281 U. S.489, 494. Respondent, the second transferee, was therefore in the words of § 280 (a) (1), "a transferee of property of a taxpayer," and its tax liability was
by that section to "be assessed, collected, and paid in the
same manner and subject to the same provisions and limitations as in the case of a deficiency in a tax imposed by
this title . . .including the provisions . . . authorizing
distraint and proceedings in court for collection . . ."
Under § 278 (d) the statute of limitations for collection
of the tax from the first transferee did not expire until
January, 1931, six years after assessment of the tax against
the original taxpayer and first transferor. United States
v. Updike, supra. By § 277 (b) the running of the six
year statute is suspended, after the beginning of deficiency
proceedings under § 274 (a), "for the period during which

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

the Commissioner is prohibited from making the assessment or beginning distraint or a proceeding in court."
And by § 274 (a) it is provided that during the pendency
of deficiency proceedings "no assessment of a deficiency
in respect of the tax imposed by this title and no distraint
or proceeding in court for its collection shall be made, begun, or prosecuted . . ." It follows that the running of
the statute of limitations in favor of the first transferee
was suspended during the pendency of the deficiency proceedings intiated with respect to him April 15, 1926, at
least, as the opinion of the Court states, until the death of
the first transferee in March, 1929, or for a period of nearly
three years. The period of limitations for the collection
of the tax from the first transferee was thus extended at
least until 1933, within which time the present suit was
brought against respondent. By virtue of the transfer,
the transferee, to the extent of the property received, becomes subject to the tax liability of the transferor. Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589, 592, 593, and cases
cited in footnote 1. Since the period of limitations and the
provisions for its suspension under §§ 274 (a) and 277 (b),
applicable to the first transferee and taxpayer, are by
§ 280 (a) (1) likewise applicable to his transferee, who
is also a taxpayer, United States v. Updike, supra, 494,
it follows that the statute of limitations applicable to respondent, the second transferee, had not expired when the
present suit was brought in May, 1932.
No distinction was made by the revenue laws between
the liability and the period of limitations applicable to a
first transferee and those applicable to a second until the
enactment of § 311 of the Revenue Act of 1928, which
provided in subsection (b) (2) that the liability of a
second transferee of the property of the taxpayer should
not extend beyond three years after the expiration of the
period of limitation for assessment against the original

U. S. v. CONTINENTAL BANK.
398

STONE,

J., dissenting.

taxpayer, except that provision was made for an extension of the time if within that period "a court proceeding for collection of the tax or liability" had been begun
against the original taxpayer or the last preceding
transferee. In recommending these changes the report
of the Senate Finance Committee, No. 960, 70th Congress,
1st Sess., p. 32, prepared before our decision in the Updike
case, pointed out that § 280 of the 1926 Act did not
specifically provide any limitation period in the case of a
transferee of a transferee, and it stated that the purpose
of the new provisions in § 311 (b) (2) was to shorten the
period during which proceedings might be had against a
second transferee. This legislative history is persuasive
that under § 280 of the 1926 Act, as its language indicates,
the second. transferee is the transferee of a taxpayer and
subject to the same period of limitations and provisions
for its extension as is his transferor.
As a transferee is subject to the tax liability of his
transferor, the second transferee under the 1926 Act is
either subject to the same period of limitations as his
transferor, or there is no statute of limitations applicable
to him. But if the first transferee is a taxpayer, so as to
avail himself of the benefit of the six year statute of limitations for collection of the tax, as held in the Updike
case, his transferee is likewise a taxpayer, as well as the
transferee of a taxpayer, so as to be subject to the burden
of the provisions extending the period .of limitation for
collection of the tax. § 280 (a) (1).
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs.

