CONNECTICUT RY. CO. v. PALMER.

493

Statement of' the Case.
CONNECTICUT RAILWAY & LIGHTING CO. v.

PALMER

ET AL.,

TRUSTEES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 63. Argued November 10, 14, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.
1. Review by certiorari is limited to the grounds upon which the
writ was sought and allowed. A ruling to which there was but
a mere reference in the petition, without request for review, not
considered. P. 496.
2. The measure of damages upon rejection of a lease in a railroad
reorganization proceeding under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, as
amended Aug. 27, 1935, is the actual damages determinable as in
equity proceedings and upon evidence. The Act fixes no limit to
the amount of actual damages. Only such damages as are susceptible of definite, satisfactory proof may be allowed. Pp. 497503.
The provisions of the Act with respect to such claims in railroad
reorganization are compared with those limiting like claims against
individual debtors and in general corporate reorganization.
3. The conclusion that, in a railroad reorganization proceeding under
§ 77 of the Bankruptcy Act as amended, upon rejection of a lease
with 969 years still to run, the lessor's damages were limited
to the rent accrued, up to the latest practicable date in the
reorganization for presentation of its claim, diminished by the
net earnings of the property-thus barring proof of damages for
loss of rent falling due after that date, and destroying, by operation of subdivision (f), the right of further recovery for such injury from the debtor after reorganization-held erroneous. Id.
4. Improvements and sinking funds which came into the possession
of the lessor by the terms of the lease, held not to be considered
as offsets against the claim of the lessor herein. P. 505.
5. Section 63 (a) (9) of the Bankruptcy Act held inapplicable to the
present controversy. P. 506.
95 F. 2d 483, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 584, to review a decree which

modified and affirmed a decree of the bankruptcy court
determining a claim arising out of the rejection of a lease
in a proceeding under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

Messrs. George W. Martin and Talcott M. Banks, Jr.
for petitioner.
Messrs. Hermon J. Wells and James Garfield for
respondents.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Robert G. Dodge and Talcott
M. Banks, Jr. filed a brief, as amici curiae, on behalf of
Howard S. Palmer et al., Trustees of the property of the
Old Colony Railroad Co.
MR. JUSTICE REED. delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case poses the question of the correct measure of

damages allowable to a lessor creditor of a railroad debtor
for the rejection of a lease under the reorganization provisions of § 77 of 'the Bankruptcy Act. The determination depends upon the meaning of the definitive clause "to
the extent of the actual damage or injury determined in
accordance with principles obtaining in equity proceedings." ' Certiorari was granted, under § 240a of the
Judicial Code, because the case involves an important
question of federal law which should be settled by this
Court.

On December 19, 1906, the Connecticut Railway and
Lighting Company, petitioner here, leased certain gas,
electric and street railway properties for 999 years to the
Consolidated Railway Company, predecessor of the New
York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad Company, hereinafter referred to as the New Haven. By a subsequent
assignment the New Haven was divested of everything
except the transportation properties involved here. On
February 28, 1910, these were transferred to a whollyowned subsidiary of the New Haven. Some question
arose in the reorganization proceedings as to the New
149 Stat. 911, 914; 11 U. S. C. § 205 (b).

CONNECTICUT RY. CO. v. PALMER.
493

495

Opinion of the Court.

Haven's liability on the 1906 lease after this transfer to
its subsidiary. The lower court, however, held the New
Haven liable as lessee, and, no attack having been made
upon this ruling, we treat, without further consideration,
the Connecticut Railway as a lessor and the New Haven
as lessee.
The lease gave the lessor the option to terminate, on
default of the lessee, and to repossess the property "without prejudice to its right of action for arrears of rent or
breach of covenant." It contained no provision for liquidation of damages for breach of the entire lease.
The New Haven agreed to pay all taxes on the property and on the lessor's income from the property. It
also paid $1,049,563.50 annually for the street railways.
Of this amount, $504,975 was intended to provide for the
payment of interest on the Connecticut Railway's bonds
and for payments into a sinking fund. These interest
and sinking fund payments created a claim upon the
lessor for the contents of the fund at the date of payment
of the bonds. The arrangement looked to the cancellation of the bonds in 1951 by the New Haven's payments,
and the issuance by the Connecticut Railway of new
bonds in their place. The delivery to it of these bonds,
the New Haven agreed, would liquidate its claim for the
contents of the sinking fund. In effect the annual reserved rent would then be considerably decreased, for the
interest and sinking fund payments would be for its benefit as owner of the new bonds.
On October 23, 1935, the New Haven filed its petition under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act. The petition
was approved and the respondents were appointed trustees. On December 18, 1935, they rejected the 1906
lease with the approval of the court. On November 16,
1936, the Connecticut Railway repossessed the street railway properties.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

The Connecticut Railway filed claims against the New
Haven's estate for numerous items, among them damages for breach of the lease and for deficiencies in property returned. It claims $23,190,314.73 as damages for
rejection of the lease. This sum is alleged to be "the
difference between the present worth of rent and of rental
value for the balance of the term of the lease, liquidated
by discounting at 4%."
The District Court held that under § 77 the lessor is
a creditor for actual damages accruing from the rejection
of the unexpired lease to the latest practicable date in
the reorganization for presentation of lessors' claims.
Damages were measured by the difference between the
rent reserved in the lease and the net earnings of the
property. The court allowed the amount proved up to
June 20, 1937, with leave to the Connecticut Railway
to apply for further hearings to liquidate damages suffered after that date.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, approving the
trial court's exclusion of any future damage which had
not accrued up to the latest possible hearing in the proceedings.
First. The claim for deficiencies in the property returned to petitioner is not properly before this Court.
The petition for certiorari did not include 'the claim
among the questions presented or reasons for the issuance of the writ. It was listed as one of three rulings below. The first related to rent accrued to petition filed,
the second to deficiencies in property returned, and the
third to damages for rejection of the lease. Nowhere in
the petition was there complaint as to the first two items.
Clearly the petition sought review solely of the decree in
so far as it limited petitioner's claim under § 77 for damages from rejection of the unexpired lease. As clearly,
certiorari was granted to review only the matter which
this Court was advised aggrieved petitioner. Johnson v.
ManhattanRy. Co., 289 U. S. 479, 494; General Talking
Pictures Co. v. Western Electric Co., 304 U. S. 175, 177-9.

CONNECTICUT RY. CO. v. PALMER.
493

497

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner relies upon Washington, V. & M. C. Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 301 U. S. 142, 146. Neither
the language of that case nor the authorities there cited
in support of the refusal to review a claim not mentioned
give vitality to the suggestion of the petitioner that a mere
reference in a petition for certiorari to a ruling, without a
request for review, will cause its consideration,
Second. Under the Bankruptcy Act, prior to the amendment of § 63 (a) by the Act of June 7, 1934,2 a claim for
future rent was not provable. A covenant, however,
creating a liability for damages on the filing of a petition
in bankruptcy, measured by the difference between the
present fair value of the remaining rent and the present
fair rental value of the premises for the balance of the
term, resulted in a provable claim.' This condition made
for inequality among both creditors and bankrupts, since
'48 Stat. 923-924.

"Sac. 4. (a)

Section 63 (a) of the Act of

July 1, 1898, entitled 'An Act to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy throughout the United States', approved July 1, 1898, as
amended, is amended to read as follows: '(a) Debts of the bankrupt
may be proved and allowed against his estate which are . . . (7)
claims for damages respecting executory contracts including future
rents. whether the bankrupt be an individual or a corporation, but
the claim of a landlord for injury resulting from the rejection by the
trustee of an unexpired lease of real estate or for damages or indemnity under a covenant contained in such lease shall in no event be
allowed in an amount exceeding the rent reserved by the lease, without acceleration, for the year next succeeding the date of the surrender of the premises plus an amount equal to the unpaid rent accrued up to said date: Provided, That the court shall scrutinize the
circumstances of an assignment of future rent claims and the amount
of the consideration paid for such assignment in determining the
amount of damages allowed assignee hereunder: Provided further,
That the provisions of this clause (7) shall apply to estates pending
at the time of the enactment of this amendatory Act.'"
The amendments of June 18, 1934, c. 580, 48 Stat. 991, June 5,
1936, c. 512, § 1, 49 Stat. 1475, and June 22, 1938, c. 575, 52 Stat.
840, are immaterial upon this point.
3 Manhattan Properties v. Irving Trust Co., 291 U. S. 320, 330.
4 Irving Trust Co. v. Perry Co., 293 U. S. 307, 310.
105537-39-

32

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion 6f the Court.

305 U. S.

recovery by claimants depended upon the artistry with
which their leases were drafted and discharged bankrupts
were often left with surviving claims for rent, unduly
burdenisome upon their efforts at self-rehabilitation.'
Everyone interested in bankruptcy problems had long
been familiar with the future rent situation and its ramifications into the fields of anticipatory breach of executory
contracts and the provability of contingent claims.6
During the years 1933 tW 1935 the Congress dealt on
several occasions with landlords' claims for future rent.
The Act of March 3, 1933, made provision for the relief
of individual debtors, agricultural and non-agricultural,
and for railroad reorganization. Section 74 defined creditors thus: "The term 'creditor' shall include for the purposes of an extension proposal under this section all holders of claims of whatever character against the debtor
or his property including a claim for future rent, whether
or not such claims would otherwise constitute provable
claims under this Act. A claim for future rent shall
constitute a provable debt and shall be liquidated under section 63 (b) of this Act." ' Similarly the railroad
reorganization section treated of future rents in sub-sections 77 (b), (h) and (j), hereafter more fully considered. By the decision of Manhattan Propertiesv. Irving
Trust Co., on January 10, 1934, the difficulties of lessors
were sharply emphasized. The Act of June 7, 1934,
supplied procedure for corporate reorganization with arrangements permitting the proof of claims for future
rent.' These provisions have been upheld.'
5 City Bank Co. v. Irving Trust Co., 299 U. S. 433, 437.
6 Cf.

Manhattan Properties v. Irving Trust Co., supra; Maynard v.

Elliott, 283 U. S. 273, 278; Central Trust Co. v. Chicago Auditorium
Assn., 240 U. S. 581, 589-90.
7 47 Stat. 1467-68.
8 "In case an executory contract or unexpired lease of real estate
shall be rejected ... any person injured by such rejection shall,
for all purposes of this section and of the reorganization plan, its
acceptance and, confirmation, be deemed to be a creditor. The claim

CONNECTICUT RY. CO. v. PALMER.
493

499

Opinion. of the. Cort.

The first provisions for proof of claims for future rent
in railroad reorganizations appeared in the Act of March
3, 1933, simultaneously with the broadening of the Bankruptcy Act to include the railroads as debtors. This act
included § 74 which enlarged the bankruptcy definition
of creditor. For creditors of this type in railroad reorganizations, the enactment was equally broad. 10 The
legislative history discloses nothing as to the motives
which prompted the inclusion of the language. In the
of a landlord for injury resulting from the rejection of an unexpired
lease of real estate or for damages or indemnity under a covenant contained in such lease shall be treated as a claim ranking on a parity
with debts which would be provable under section 63 (a) of this
Act, but shall be limited to an amount not to exceed the xent, without acceleration, reserved by said lease for the three years next
succeeding the date of surrender of the premises to the landlord or
the date of reentry of the landlord, whichever first occurs, whether
before or after the filing of the petition, plus unpaid rent accrued up
to such date of surrender or reentry: Provided, That, the court shall
scrutinize the circumstances of an assignment of future rent claims
and the amount of the consideration paid for such assignment in
determining the amount of damages allowed assignee hereunder."
48 Stat. 915.
"(h) Upon final confirmation of the plan, . . . the property dealt
with by the plan, when transferred and conveyed by the trustee or
trustees to the debtor or the other corporation or corporations .. .
shall be free and clear of all claims of the debtor, its stockholders
and creditors . . ." 48 Stat. 920.
9 City Bank Co. v. Irving Trust Co., 299 U. S. 433; Kuehner v.
Irving Trust Co., 299 U. S.445.
1047 Stat. 1475, 1480, § 77, "(b) . .. The term 'creditors' shall,
. ..include .. .all holders of claims, interests, or securities of whatever character against the debtor or its property, including claim
for future rent, whether or not such claims, interests, or securities
would otherwise constitute provable claims under this Act."
"(h) . .. The confirmation of the plan shall discharge the debtor
from its debts except as provided in the plan. ..."
"(j) Upon the confirmation of the plan the property dealt with
by the plan, . . .shall, as the court may direct, be free and clear
of all claims of the debtor, its stockholders and creditors, . . ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

Act of August 27, 1935, these clauses were amended to
read as they now stand but again nothing has been found
commenting upon the reasons for their adoption in either
the original or present form. Changes of interest here
from the 1933 language were proposed by the Federal
Co~rdinator of Transportation," but, they were not
deemed of sufficient importance by him to merit particular comment. The Committee on the Judiciary of
the House of Representatives held hearings and reported
a bill, based on the Co~rdinator's draft, with the language,
here important, changed to the exact wording of the Act
11

House Document No. 89, 74th Congress, 1st Session, Appendix X,
page 229.
Those affecting the language of the Act of March 3, 1933, quoted
in note 10, supra, were as follows:
"The term 'creditors' shall include for all purposes of this section
all holders of claims of whatever character against the debtor or its
property, whether or not such claims would otherwise constitute provable claims under this Act, including the holder of a claim under a
contract executory in whole or in part including an unexpired lease."
Id. p. 231.
"In case an executory contract or unexpired lease of property shall
be rejected . . ., any person injured by such nonadoption or rejection,

shall, for all purposes of this section be deemed to be a creditor to
the extent of such damage or injury, provided, that the judge shall
consider the circumstances of an assignment of future rent claims
and the amount of consideration paid for such assignment in determining the amount of damages allowed an assignee hereunder and
may limit such damages to the actual consideration paid for such
claims." Id. pp. 231-2.
"... the property dealt with by the plan, when transferred and
conveyed . . .shall be free and clear of all claims of the debtor, its
stockholders and creditors, . . . The final decree shall discharge the

debtor from its debts and liabilities and shall terminate all rights and
interests of its stockholders and creditors except as provided in the
plan or as may be reserved as aforesaid." Id. p. 239.
Comment of Coordinator, Id. p. 100 et seq.

CONNECTICUT RY. CO. v. PALMER.
493

of August 27, 1935.

501

Opinion of the Court.

Nothing which illumines this prob-

lem appears in the hearings 2 or committee report."
The portions of the act which we must consider are as
follows:
"Sec. 77. Reorganization of railroads... (b) .. The
term 'creditors' shall include . . . the holder of a claim
under a contract executory in whole or in part including
an unexpired lease.
" . . . In case an executory contract or unexpired
lease of property shall be rejected... any person injured
by such nonadoption or rejection shall for all purposes
of this section be deemed to be a creditor of the debtor
to the extent of the actual damage or injury determined
in accordance with principles obtaining in equity proceedings. ....

The property dealt with by the plan, when
"(f) ...
transferred and conveyed . . . shall be free and clear of
all claims of the debtor, its stockholders and creditors,
and the debtor shall be discharged from its debts and
liabilities, ... " 49 Stat. 911, 913, 920.
It is first to be noted that the successive acts of the
Congress, on extension of individual debts and corporate
and railroad reorganization, are directed generally at the
rehabilitation of debtors." As one of the means used
consistently to accomplish this, claims for future rent are
made provable and dischargeable, so that the debtor would
5
not be burdened with the rent obligation after discharge.'
12 Hearings before the Committee on the Judiciary on H. R. 6249,
74th Congress, 1st Session.
13 H. R. Report No. 1283, 74th Congress, 1st Session.
14 Cf. Adair v. Bank of America National T. & S. Assn., 303 U. S.
350.
15 Cf. Manhattan Properties v. Irving Trust Co., 291 U. S. 320,
331-2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

Next, the limitation of the amount of future rent recoverable to one year in § 4 and to three years in § 1 [77B (b) ] of
the Act of June 7, 1934, leaves no doubt that the Congress
deemed a definite formula advantageous in bankruptcy
and general corporate reorganization. Its failure to provide an exact measure in railroad reorgahizations shows it
was not there considered appropriate. Finally, it seems
obvious that the changes of the Committee on the Judiciary in the wording of the Codrdinator's draft, by which
"actual" was inserted before "damage" and "determined in accordance with principles obtaining in equitable
proceedings" added as a guide, were intended to call
emphatically to the attention of those administering the
reorganization section the requirement that only. those
damages susceptible of definite proof should be allowed.
We cannot read a limitation on damages into the language
as enacted. As reorganizations had been traditionally
carried on in equity and would be carried on in a bankruptcy court with equity powers, it was natural to add the
clause as to equitable proceedings. Leases were placed
upon the same basis as executory contracts.
The New Haven urges that the reference to "equitable
proceedings" is to receiverships in equity, as such receiverships were mentioned twice in the same subsection. The
use of "equitable proceedings" instead of "equity receiverships" supports the view that something different was
intended. The equitable principle for the allowance of
claims for future rent the New Haven -finds in Penmsylvania Steel Co. v. New York City Ry. Co., 198 F. 721,
expressed as follows, pages 741-742,
"Claims which when presented within the time limited by
the court for their presentation are certain or are capable
of being made certain by recognized methods of computation, should be allowed. Claims which are not then
certain should be disallowed because they afford no basis
for making dividends."

CONNECTICUT RY. CO. v. PALMER.
493

503

Opinion of the Court.

The conclusion of the District Court, as affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, is then offered as the correct
rule in this case. That conclusion was summarized by the
brief of the New Haven in these words:
"The court thereupon held that damages measured by
the difference between the rent reserved. and the earnings
of the property up to the date of hearing should be
allowed, with the further right to the claimant, in common with all other claimants under rejected leases, to
apply for a subsequent hearing at the latest practicable
date to be determined by the court during the reorganization proceedings for the purpose of proving similar damages up to that date."
Damages for loss of rent which fell due after the latest
practicable date for filing claims were thus barred from
proof, and under the quoted language of subdivision (f),
the right to recover for such injury from the debtor after
reorganization was destroyed.
We are of the opinion that this construction of the
statutory provisions for the measurement of damages
for loss of future rent is erroneous. Notwithstanding
its extended term, the lease created an obligation under
the present Bankruptcy Act upon the New Haven entitled to share in its assets upon reorganization on an
equality with the claims of other creditors.
While it could be said that the general rule in equity
receiverships was that only accrued damages could be
proven, there was no discernible equitable rule for the determination of damages for rejection or nonadoption of
an unexpired lease. The actual damages from the
breach were not determined. At the most an arbitrary
time limit was set on proof. The reference to equity
proceedings does not, in our opinion, refer to any rule
for the measure of damages in equity receiverships. In
their administration of estates, whether railroad or nonrailroad, claims for future rents depended for their prova-

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

bility upon the fact of reentry,6 the existence of a clause
for indemnity in case of breach,'17 or the incidence of the
maturity of the rent claim under the local law.' 8
The damages recovered by an injured party have always been limited to his "actual" damages. There is
nothing to indicate that the Congress intended to have
"actual" interpreted as "accrued." The measure of damages applied by the courts for the breach of a lease, where
damages are permitted, is uniform. In William Filene's
9 and in Kuehner v. Irving Trust Co.,2 0
Sons Co. v. Weed 1
this Court said in analogous situations that the measure
was the present value of the rent reserved less the present rental value* of the remainder of the term.2 1 The
English Bankruptcy Act permits proof of future rents,
as any claim is provable which is "as to mode of valuation, capable of being ascertained by fixed rules or as
matter of opinion." 22 The measure of damages is the
same.
The difficulties of proof are well recognized.' 4
1 Gardiner v. Butler & Co., 245 U. S. 603, 605.
1 Win. Filene's Sons Co. v. Weed, 245 U. S. 597, 602.

' Gardinerv. Butler & Co. 245 U. S.603, 605; Wake Development
Co. v. Auburn-Fuller Co., 71 F. 2d 702; Moore v. McDuf]ie, 71 F. 2d
729; In re McAllister-Mohler Co., 46 F. 2d 91; see Gerdes, Corporate
Reorganizations, §§ 687-88.
1-245 U. S. 597, 602.
20

299 U. S.445, 450.

Cf. Grayson v. Mixon, 176 Ark. 1123; 5 S.W. 2d 312; Curran
v. Smith-Zollinger Co., 18 Del. Ch. 220; 157 A. 432; Wilson v. National Refining Co., 126 Kan. 139; 266 P. 941; Womble v. Leigh,
196 N. C. 282; 142 S.E. 17; In re Reading Iron Works, 150 Pa. 369;
24 A. 617; Sutherland, Damages, Vol. III, Fourth Ed., § 844.
22 Act of 1914, 4 and 5 Geo. V, c. 59, § 30 (8) (c).
'In re Tickle, 3 Morr. 126; Ex parte Llynvi Coal & Iron Co.,
L. R. 7 Ch. App. 28; In re Hinks, Ex parte Verdi, 3 Morr. 218;
In re Carruthers,2 Mans. 172; cf. Hardy v. Fothergill,L. R. 13 A. C.
351, 358, where a claim on covenant to deliver well repaired at end
of fifty-yeat term was held provable.
24 Pennsylvania Steel Co. v. New York City Ry. Co., 198 F. 721,
759.
21

CONNECTICUT RY. CO. v. PALMER.
493

505

Opinion of the Court.

The same rules apply to executory contracts. In Kuehner v. Irving Trust Co.25 this Court pointed out as one
of the reasons for upholding the validity of a statutory
formula the uncertainty as to the loss entailed by abrogation of leases, an uncertainty growing greater as
the remainder of the term lengthens. "Testimony as to
present rental value," it was said, "partakes largely of the
character of prophecy..." A remainder of fourteen
years was there involved. Here there is a remainder of
969 years. That lease was for a- store in the City of
New York. Evidence of the value of unexpired terms
of street railway leases would be even more difficult to
produce, as possible lessees are limited in number. Since
insolvencies are more frequent in economic depressions
and since, as a consequence, estimates of the rental value
of the remainder of the term are given under subnormal
business conditions, the difficulties are multiplied.
Judges in equitable proceedings will have the advantage of evidence in applying the usual rules as to the
measure of damages. It is well understood that such
evidence must show damages to reasonable certainty.
Mere "plausible anticipation" does not merit consideration nor are flights into the realm of pure speculation entitled to be treated as evidence.26 The determination of
the amount to be allowed as the damage will be based
on evidence which satisfies the mind.
Third. We comment briefly on two other points raised.
The betterments and sinking funds having come into the
possession of the lessors by the terms of the lease are
not to be considered as offsets against the claim of the
lessor. Their possession by the lessor increases the earning power of the assets to the benefit of the lessee.
25 299

26 Cf.

U. S. 445, 454.
Sutherland, Damages, Vol. I, Fourth Ed., § 121.

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

Since subsection (1) of § 77 27 is general in form and
is specifically subordinated to the other provisions of the
section, including subsection (b), § 63 (a) (9) of the
Bankruptcy Act is inapplicable to the present controversy.
As certiorari was sought and allowed only upon so
much of the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals as
affected the measure of the lessor's damage for rejection
of the lease in question, the order of that court is reversed only in that particular and this case is remanded
to the District Court for further proceedings in accordance with the order and opinion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals as herein modified and of this Court.
Reversed.
is of opinion that the judgbe affirmed.
should
below
of
the
court
ment
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
49 Stat. 922, "(1) In proceedings under this section and consistent
with the provisions thereof, the jurisdiction and powers of the court,
the duties of the debtor and the rights and liabilities of creditors,
and of all persons with respect to the debtor and its property, shall
be the same as if a voluntary petition for adjudication had been
filed and a decree of adjudication had been entered on the day when
the debtor's petition was filed."
27

