TEXAS THEATRES v. PITTMAN.
1

Statement of the Case.

Southern Railway Co., 241 U. S. 229, 235, 236. Where
such violations are not involved, the defense of assumption of risk is available in actions under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Horton,
supra; Jacobs v. Southern Railway Co., supra; Atchison,
T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Swearingen, 239 U. S. 339, 344;
Baugham v. New York, P. & N. R. Co., 241 U. S. 237,
241; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Ward, 252 U. S.
18, 21.
Despite this erroneous ruling, we are of the opinion that
the judgment should be affirmed upon the first ground
taken by the state court, that is, that the question of
assumption of risk was for the jury. It is not contended
that the instructions of the trial court upon that defense
were erroneous. The contention is that there was no evidence to go to the jury. We think that there was.
The judgment is affirmed with respect to the petitioner
Great Northern Railway Company. As to the petitioner
George Pappas, the writ of certiorari is dismissed upon
the ground that the federal question as to the right of
recovery under the Act against him individually, as distinguished from the Railway Company, was not properly
presented.
Affirmed in part; dismissed in part.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK is of

the opinion that the writ of

certiorari should be dismissed as to both petitioners.
TEXAS CONSOLIDATED THEATRES, INC. v.
PITTMAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 26. Submitted October 19, 1938.-Decided November 7, 1938.
CERTIORARI, 304 U. S. 556, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, 93 F. 2d 21; 94 id. 203, affirming a judgment for damages against- petitioner, dismissed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

with costs, in view of subsequent settlement in the District Court &c.
Mr. W. B. Handley submitted for petitioner.
No appearance for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

Respondent recovered judgment for damages in an action for injuries suffered by his wife. After appeal had
been argued and while it was under advisement in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, the parties entered into a stipulation for settlement on payment of a sum less than the
judgment and providing that the judgment should be reversed and judgment entered in the District Court for
costs only. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the
judgment. 93 F. 2d 21. Alleging that the court had
been informed of the compromise and stipulation, petitioner sought a rehearing, which was denied. 94 F. 2d
203. We granted certiorari.
Upon the case being called for argument in this Court,
respondent did not appear. Petitioner submitted a statement showing that, since the issue of the writ, an order
upon hearing had been entered in the District Court
whereby the judgment involved was decreed to be satisfied and discharged in full and the issue of execution
thereon was prohibited; that respondent excepted to the
order and gave notice of appeal but that the appeal had
not been prosecuted.
Petitioner submitted the case for such order as the
Court may deem proper and suggested that the costs of
this proceeding may be taxed against it.
The writ of certiorari is dismissed with costs against
petitioner.
Dismissed.

