STOLL v. GOTTLIEB.

165

Statement of the Case.

STOLL v. GOTTLIEB.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 20.

Argued October 14, 1938.-Decided November 21, 1938.

1. A contention that a ruling of a state supreme court disregarded
decrees of a court of the United States, raised a federal question
reviewable under § 237b of the Judicial Code. P. 167.
2. An order of a federal District Court, which, in a proceeding to
reorganize a corporation under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act,
approved a plan of reorganization providing inter alia for discharge
of the debtor's bonds and cancellation of a personal guaranty
thereof, held res judicata, and proof against collateral attack, in an
action in a state court, brought against the guarantor (who had
appeared and approved the reorganization as proposed), by one
of the holders of the guaranteed bonds, who had received notice
of the hearing in the District Court upon the proposed reorganization, but did not there appear, and who, after bringing his action
on the guaranty, had unsuccessfully petitioned that court to set
aside or modify its order upon the ground that it had no jurisdiction to extinguish the guaranty. P. 170.
In reaching this conclusion, the Court assumes that the bankruptcy court did not have jurisdiction of the subject matter of its
order-the release, in reorganization, of a guarantor from his guaranty. The decision here is based on the fact that in an actual controversy the question of the jurisdiction over the subject matter
was raised and determined adversely to the respondent. That determination is res judicata of that issue in this action, whether or
not power to deal with the particular subject matter was strictly
or quasi jurisdictional.
Vallely v. Northern Fire Ins. Co., 254 U. S. 348, distinguished.
Cases dealing with status and transfer of title to real estate are
outside the scope of the present inquiry.
368 Ill. 88; 12 N. E. 2d 881, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 304 U. S. 554, to review a judgment affirming a judgment recovered in the Municipal Court of Chicago, in an action upon a guaranty of bonds of a corporation, and reversing a judgment of the appellate court of
Illinois, 289 Ill. App. 595, which had held to the
contrary.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Respondent.

305 U. S.

Mr. Albert W. Froehde, with whom Mr. Russell F.
Locke was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. David Shipman submitted for respondent.
Under the "full faith and credit" clause of the Constitution, the jurisdiction of the federal court to cancel the
guaranty was properly inquired into by the Supreme
Court of Illinois.
The proceedings in the federal court did not constitute
an estoppel or res judicata.
Motion of respondent in the federal court to vacate the
decree and orders cancelling the guaranty entered almost
two years earlier, for the reason that that court had no
jurisdiction to cancel the guaranty, did not confer validity
upon that part of the decree, otherwise void.
The Bankruptcy Act prohibits the cancellation of a
guaranty, and there is no authority in § 77B or elsewhere
giving the federal court that power.
If § 77B were construed to -empower the District Court
to cancel the guaranty, it would violate the Fifth Amendment.
Under the decisions in In re Diversey Building Corp.,
86 F. 2d. 456, wherein this Court denied certiorari, 300
U. S. 662, and In re Nine North Church St., Inc., 82 F. 2d
186, 188, the federal court was wholly without jurisdiction of the subject matter of this guaranty, and its orders
and decree pertaining to the cancellation of the guaranty
are absolutely void and subject to collateral attack. See
In re Utilities Power & Light Corp., 91 F. 2d 598; In re
Prudence Bonds Corp., 79 F. 2d 212, 215; In re 1775
Broadway Corp., 79 F. 2d 108, 110; Brumley v. Jones,
141 F. 318; Holm v. Jamieson, 173 Ill. 295, 300; Union
Trust Co. v. Willsea, 275 N. Y. 164; In re Madison Mortgage Corp., 22 F. Supp. 99; Chauncey v. Dykes Bros.,
119 F. 1, 3; In re Pyrocolor Corp., 46 F. 2d 554; Johnson
v. Finn, 14 N. E. 2d 240; Collier Supp. § 77B; Am. B. R.
Digest, § 1279-a; Armstrong v. Obucino, 306 Ill. 140;

STOLL v. GOTTLIEB.
165

Opinion of the Court.

Standard Oil Co. v. Missouri, 224 U. S. 270, 281; In re
Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200, 220; United States v. Walker, 109
U. S. 258; Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274; Adams v.
Terrell, 4 F. 796, 800; Novak v. Kruse, 211 111. App. 274;
Great Western Tel. Co. v. Barker, 56 Ill. App. 402; Risley
v. Phenix Bank, 83 N. Y. 318, 337; Ex parte Wisner, 203
U. S. 449; Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S. 409, 444; Rcynolds
v. Stockton, 140 U. S. 254; Guaranty Trust Co. v. Green
Cove R. Co., 139 U. S. 137; In re Southern States Fiance
Co., 19 F. 2d 959; The Confiscation Cases, 20 Wall. 92;
Sharon v. Terry, 36 F. 337, 346; Rabbit v. Weber & Co.,
297 Ill. 491, 495; Demilly v. Grosrenaud,201 Ill. 272, 273;
Kenney v. Greer, 13 Ill. 432; Ashlock v. Ashlock, 360 Ill.
115, 122.
iVIR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
This certiorari was allowed to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Illinois. That court had denied effect
to a plea of res judicata arising from orders of a district
court in bankruptcy. Provisions declaring the supremacy
of the Constitution and the extent of the judicial power
and authorizing necessary and proper legislationh to make
the grants effective confer jurisdiction upon this Court
to determine the effect to be given decrees of a court of
the United States in state courts.1 As the contention is
that the ruling below disregarded decrees of a court of
the United States, it raised a federal question reviewable
under § 237b of the Judicial Code.'
'Crescent City Live Stock Co. v. Butchers' Union, 120 U. S. 141,
146; Embry v. Palmer, 107 U. S. 3, 9; Metcalf v. Watertown, 153
U. S. 671, 676; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Sowers, 213 U. S. 55,
65.
2Dupasseur
v. Rochereau, 21 Wall. '130, 134; Crescent City Live
Stock Co. v. Butchers' Union, 120 U. S. 141, 142; Dcs Moines Nav.
Co. v. Iowa Homestead Co., 123 U. S. 552, 559; Pittsburgh, C., C. &
St. L. Ry. Co. v. Long Island Loan & Trust Co., 172 U. S. 493, 507;
Motlow v. State ex rel. Koeln, 295 U. S. 97, 98.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

The admission of facts, and uncontroverted allegations
of the pleadings, show that Ten Fifteen North Clark
Building Corporation filed a petition for reorganization
on June 20, 1934, under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act
in the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Illinois; that the petition was approved as
properly filed shortly thereafter, and that notice of the
proceedings was given to the creditors, one of whom was
respondent William Gottlieb. A proposed plan of reorganization was filed by the debtor which provided for
the substitution of one share of common stock in the
Olympic Hotel Building Corporation for each $100 principal amount of the outstanding first mortgage, 61/2% gold
bonds of the debtor corporation, the discharge of the
bonds and the cancellation of a guaranty endorsed on
them. The guaranty was one of J. 0. Stoll, petitioner
here, and S. A. Crowe, Jr., to pay the bond. Its material
provisions are stated below.' The extinction of the personal guaranty was in consideration "for the transfer of
all the assets of said Debtor [i. e., the Building Corporaa

"GUARANTY.

"For Value Received, the undersigned, Do Hereby Guarantee the
payment of the within bond and the interest thereon, at the maturity

thereof either by the terms of said bond or of any agreement extending the time of payment thereof, or by anticipation of maturity at

the election of the legal holder or owner thereof, in accordance with
any provision of said bond or of the trust deed given to secure the
same, or of any extension agreement; and do hereby absolutely
guarantee the payment of the respective interest coupons, given to
evidence the interest on said bond, and all extension coupons, at
their respective dates of maturity, and all interest on said coupons,
and do hereby absolutely guarantee the full and complete performance
by the maker of the trust deed given to secure the said bonds and
coupons, and its successors and assigns, of all of the terms, provisions,
covenants and agreements of the said trust deed and of any such
extension agreement."

STOLL v. GOTTLIEB.
165

Opinion of the Court.

tion] to the Olympic Hotel Building Corporation and the
surrender of the said Common Stock of the Debtor."
Crowe and Stoll, together with other stockholders of the
debtor, "filed their acceptances in writing" of the plan.
On notice to respondent and a hearing at which he did
not appear the proposed plan of reorganization with the
provision for the extinction of the guaranty was confirmed over the objections of creditors of the same class
as respondent. The confirmation provided that all creditors of the debtor should be bound. It also appears that,
in accordance with the plan, the guarantors caused the
assets of the debtor to be transferred to the new corporation and surrendered the capital stock of the debtor.
After the institution of the present action in the state
court Gottlieb filed a petition in the proceedings for reorganization of the Ten Fifteen North Clark Building
Corporation praying that an order be entered vacating
or modifying the decrees and orders entered in the proceedings confirming the plan of reorganization, on the
ground that the district court in proceedings for reorganization did not have power or jurisdiction to cancel the
guaranty. An order was entered denying this petition.
No appeal was taken from any of the bankruptcy orders.
Subsequent to the confirmation of the plan of reorganization but before the petition to vacate these orders Gottlieb began an action in the Municipal Court of Chicago
against the guarantors Crowe and Stoll to recover upon
their guaranty of three of the $500 bonds of Ten Fifteen
North Clark Building Corporation. Crowe was not served
with summons. Stoll defended on the ground that the
order of the bankruptcy court confirming the plan of reorganization with release of his guaranty and its further
order, denying Gottlieb's petition to set aside the decree
providing for the release of the guaranty, were res judicata.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

The Municipal Court granted the relief sought by the
bondholder, the appellate court reversed and its judgment
was in turn reversed by the Supreme Court of Illinois,
which affirmed the judgment of the Municipal Court."
Two justices dissented.
The Congress enacted, as one of the earlier statutes,
provisions for giving effect to the judicial proceedings of
the courts. This has long had its present form." This
statute is broader than the authority granted by Article
Four, section one, of the Constitution to prescribe the
manner of proof and the effect of the judicial proceedings
of states. Under it the judgments and decrees of the federal courts in a state are declared to have the same dignity in the courts of that state as those of its own courts
in a like case and under similar circumstances.'
But
where the judgment or decree of the federal court determines a right under a federal statute, that decision is
"final until reversed in an appellate court, or modified or
set aside in the court of its rendition." ' As this plea was
based upon an adjudication under the reorganization pro'368 Ill. 88; 12 N. E. 2d 881.
'Rev. Stat. § 905. "The acts of the legislature of any State or
Territory, or of any country subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States, shall be authenticated by havifig the seals of such State, Territory, or country affixed thereto. The records and judicial proceedings
of the courts of any State or Territory, or of any such country, shall
be proved or admitted in any other court within the United States,
by the attestation of the clerk, and the seal of the court annexed,
if there be a seal, together with a certificate of the judge, chief justice,
or presiding magistrate, that the said attestation is in due form. And
the said records and judicial proceedings, so authenticated, shall have
such faith and credit given to them in every court within the United
States as they have by law or usage in the courts of the State from
which they are taken."
'Dupasseur v. Rochereau, 21 Wall. 130; Embry v. Palmer, 107
U. S. 3, 9; cf. Metcalf v. Watertown, 153 U. S. 671.
Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, 191 U. S. 499, 520.

STOLL v. GOTTLIEB.
165

Opinion of the Court.

visions of the Bankruptcy Act, effect as res judicata is to
be given the federal order, if it is concluded it was an
effective judgment in the court of its rendition. The
problem before the Supreme Court of Illinois was not one
of full faith and credit but of res judicata. In this particular case, a federal question was involved. This was
the power of the federal courts to protect those who come
before them relying upon constitutional rights or rights
given, as in this case, through a statute enacted pursuant
to constitutional grants of power.
The inquiry is to be directed at the conclusiveness of
the order releasing the guarantor from his obligation, assuming the Bankruptcy Court did not have jurisdiction
of the subject matter of the order, the release in reorganization of a guarantor from his guaranty of the debtor's
obligations!
A court does not have the power, by judicial fiat, to
extend its jurisdiction over matters beyond the scope of
the authority granted to it by its creators. There must
be admitted, however, a power to interpret the language
of the jurisdictional instrument and its application to an
issue before the court.' Where adversary parties appear,
a court must have the power to determine whether or not
it has jurisdiction of the person of a litigant, 0 or whether
its geographical jurisdiction covers the place of the occurrence under consideration.' Every court in rendering a
judgment, tacitly, if nQt expressly, determines its juris' We express no opinion as to whether the Bankruptcy Court did or

did not have jurisdiction of the subject matter. Cf. In re Diversey
Building Corp., 86 F. 2d 456; In re Nine North Church Street, Inc.,
82 F. 2d 186; Union Trust Co. v. Willsea, 275 N. Y. 164, 167; 9 N. E.
2d 820.
'As illustrations of the exercise of this power, see Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266, 274; Matter of
Gregory, 219 U. S. 210, 217.
:0 Baldwin v. Traveling Men's Assn., 283 U- S. 522.
'Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 202.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

diction over the parties and the subject matter.
An
erroneous affirmative conclusion as to the jurisdiction does
not in any proper sense enlarge the jurisdiction of the
court until passed upon by the court of last resort, and
even then the jurisdiction becomes enlarged only from the
necessity of having a judicial determination of the jurisdiction over the subject matter. When an erroneous
judgment, whether from .the court of first instance or from
the court of final resort, is pleaded in another court or another jurisdiction the question is whether the former judgment is res judicata. After a federal court has decided
the question of the jurisdiction over the parties as a contestea issue, the court in which the plea of res judicata is
made has not the power to inquire again into that jurisdictional fact.18 We see no reason why a court, in the
absence of an allegation of fraud in obtaining the judgment, should examine again the question whether the
court 14 making the earlier determination on an actual
contest over jurisdiction between the parties, did have
jurisdiction of the subject matter of the litigation. In
this case the order upon the petition to vacate the confirmation settled the contest over jurisdiction.
Courts to determine the rights of parties are an integral
part of our system of government. It is just as important
that there should be a place to end as that there should
be a place to begin litigation. After a party has his day
in court, with opportunity to present his evidence and
his view of the law, a collateral attack upon the decision
as to jurisdiction there rendered merely retries the issue
previously determined. There is no reason to expect that
the second decision will be more satisfactory than the first.
Chicago Life Ins. Co. v. Cherry, 244 U. S. 25, 29.
"Chicago Life Ins. Co. v. Cherry, 244 U. S. 25, 30; Baldwin v.
Traveling Men's Assn., 283 U. S. 522, 525; Davis v. Davis, ante, p. 32.
4
The Bankruptcy Court is one of general jurisdiction. Fairbanks
Shovel Co. v. Wills, 240 U. S. 642, 649.

STOLL v. GOTTLIEB.
165

173

Opinion of the Court.

That a former judgment in a state court is conclusive
between the parties and their privies in a federal court
when entered upon an actually contested issue as to the
jurisdiction of the court over the subject matter of the
litigation, has been determined by this Court in Forsyth
5
v. Hammond."
The petitioner, Caroline M. Forsyth,
sought by injunction in the federal court to forbid the
City of Hammond fromn collecting taxes on certain lands,
annexed to the city by an earlier state court decree. The
city contended that the earlier decree was decisive, the
petitioner that it was void because the enlargement of
a city was a matter of legislative, not judicial, cognizance. Without determining the issue whether annexation itself is a function solely of the legislature, this
Court upheld the contention of the city on the ground
that the petitioner had taken an appeal to the Supreme
Court of Indiana from the earlier decree of the trial
court against her in the annexation proceedings, and had
in that appeal attacked the validity of the decree on the
ground of lack of jurisdiction. "Having litigated a question in one competent tribunal and been defeated, can
she litigate the same question in another tribunal, acting
independently, and having no appellate jurisdiction?
The question is not whether the judgment of the Supreme
Court would be conclusive as to the question involved
in another action between other parties, but whether
it is not binding between the same parties in that or any
other forum." 1
Other instances closely approaching the line of this
case may be examined.
In Des Moines Navigation & Railroad Co. v. Iowa
Homestead Co., 7 this Court was called upon to resolve
a controversy over the effect of a judgment of the federal
166 U. S. 506, 515.

1d. 517.
17123

U. S. 552.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S

courts in a matter beyond their jurisdiction. The suit
was brought by the Homestead Company in the state
court to recover certain taxes which were the subject of
litigation between the same parties in Homestead Company v. Valley Railroad, 17 Wall. 153. In the earlier
case the decision had been adverse to the Homestead
Company. When the Navigation Company pleaded the
earlier decree in bar to the later action, it was met with
the reply that the courts of the United States, which had
rendered the earlier decree "had no jurisdiction of said
suit and no legal power or authority to render said decree or judgment." The reason for this assertion was
that the earlier suit had been instituted in a state court
by the Homestead Company, an Iowa corporation, against
various non-resident defendants and the Navigation Company, also an Iowa corporation. The individual defendants caused a removal to the federal court and all defendants, including the Navigation Company, appeared,
filed answets and defended the action. The Homestead
Company likewise appeared and actually contested issues
in dispute with the Navigation Company. The litigation eventually reached this Court and was decided without reference to the lack of jurisdiction. In the later
case this.Court assumed that the exercise of jurisdiction
by the United States Circuit Court over the controversy
between the two Iowa corporations was improper. It
was held, however, that the earlier decree was a "prior
adjudication of the matters in controversy" and a bar
to the later action.
A few years later this Court had occasion to examine
again the question. of the effect of a former adjudication
by a United States Circuit Court in a case where this
Court assumed the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the
parties but not of the subject matter. The earlier adjddication was pleaded in bar to a suit to quiet title in a
state cour sitting in the same state as the Circuit Court.

STOLL v. GOTTLIEB.
165

Opinion of the Court.

The state courts denied effect to the Circuit Court decree.
On writ of error to the Supreme Court of Oregon this
Court answered the contention that the ground upon
which "the Federal court assumed jurisdiction was insufficient in law to make this case one arising under the
laws of the United States" in these words:
"But that was a question which the Circuit Court of
the United States was competent to determine in the first
instance. Its determination of it was the exercise of jurisdiction. Even if that court erred in entertaining juris.diction, its determination of that matter was conclusive
upon the parties before it, and could not be questioned by
them or either of them collaterally, or otherwise than on
writ of error or appeal to this court." "8
The decision in the Des Moines case is not precisely parallel with the circumstances of the present case because
the determination was based upon diversity of citizenship
between other parties to the controversy 1 and Dowell v.
Applegate may likewise be seen to deviate slightly since
there was color of jurisdiction in the federal court by
reason of certain allegations as to violation of Acts of
Congress in the stamping of the deeds.
A case likewise closely approaching the circumstances of
the present controversy is Vallely v. Northern Fire & M.
Ins. Co. -0 A corporation alleged to be engaged in the insurance business was adjudicated an involuntary bankrupt in the teeth of the Bankruptcy Act, § 4-b, that "any
moneyed ... corporation, except [an] . . . insurance ...
corporation, . . . may be adjudged an involuntary bankrupt." There was a default, acquiescence and aid to the
trustee by the bankrupt. After the time for review of
the adjudication had expired, the bankrupt filed a motion
to vacate the adjudication as null and void. This Court
"Dowell v. Applegate, 152 U. S. 327, 340.
Vallely v. Northern Fire & M. Ins. Co., 254 U. S. 348, 354.
'"254 U. S. 348.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

upheld the motion. It was pointed out that a determination of a jurisdictional fact such as whether an alleged
bankrupt is a farmer, binds, 1 but that where there was
no statute of bankruptcy applicable "necessarily there is
no power in the District Court to include," the excepted
corporation. It was thought that to recognize the binding effect of the judgment would be to extend the jurisdiction. This decision is inapplicable here because there
was not an actually contested issue and order as to jurisdiction. The case is also distinguishable because the
motion to vacate was made in the same bankruptcy proceeding as the order. We do not comment upon the significance of this variable.
To appraise the cases dealing with status and transfer
of title to real estate seems outside the scope of the present inquiry. The rule applied here may or may not be
applicable in instances where the courts with jurisdiction
of the later controversy are passing upon matters of status
and real estate titles.2
It is frequently said that there are certain strictly jurisdictional facts, the existence of which is essential to the
validity of proceedings and the absence of which renders
the act of the court a nullity. Examples with citations are
listed in Noble v. Union River Logging R. Co. 23 For
instance, service of process in a common law action within
a state, publication of notice in strict form in proceedings
in rem against absent defendants, the appointment of
an administrator for a living person, a court martial of
a civilian. Upon the other hand there are quasi-jurisdictional facts, diversity of citizenship, majority of litigants, and jurisdiction of parties, a mere finding of which,
' Denver First Nat. Bank v. Klug, 186 U. S. 202.
Cf. Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S. 14; s. c.176 Mass. 92; 57 N. E.
333; Fall v. Eastin, 215 U. S. 1; Carpenter v. Strange, 141 U. S.87,
105.
"3147 U. S. 165.

SHIELDS v. UTAH IDAHO R. CO.
165

177

Syllabus.

regardless of actual existence, is sufficient. As to the first
group it is said an adjudication may be collaterally attacked, as to the second it may not. We do not review
these cases as we base our conclusion here on the fact that
in an actual controversy the question of the jurisdiction
over the subject matter was raised and determined adversely to the respondent. That determination is res
adjudicata of that issue in this action, whether or not
power to deal with the particular subject matter was
strictly or quasi-jurisdictional.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS concurs in the result.
SHIELDS ET AL. V. UTAH IDAHO CENTRAL
RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 28. Argued October 19, 1938.-Decided December 5, 1938.
1. Congress, having power to subject interstate railways to the requirements of the Railway Labor Act relating to labor relations,
was empowered also to except interurban electric railways not
operating as part of a general steam-railroad system, and to confide the question of fact whether a particular railroad falls within
the excepted category to determination, after hearing and upon
evidence, by the interstate Commerce Commission. P. 170.
2. The conferring of authority, by the Railway Labor Act, upon the
Interstate Commerce Commission to determine whether a particular electric railway is an interurban one is not an unconstitutional
delegation of power. P. 181.
3. Under § 1 of the Railway Labor Act, it is the function of the
Interstate Commerce Commission to determine as matters of fact,
not only whether an electric railway line is operated as part of a
general steam-railroad system of transportation, but also whether
it is an "interurban" line. P. 181.
4. The purpose of the Act in requiring a hearing on these matters
by the Commission-a hearing of evidence and argument-, is to
comply with the requirements of due process. P. 182.
105537°-39--12

