BREWING CO. v. LIQUOR COMM'N.
382

Statement of the Case.

As the lower court had no jurisdiction of this suit, we
have no occasion to consider whether, as a matter of substantive law, the lack of assent by the Secretary of the
Interior precluded maintenance of the condemnation
proceeding.
Affirmed.
INDIANAPOLIS BREWING CO. v. LIQUOR

CONTROL COMMISSION

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 130.

Argued December 7, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.

1. Since the Twenty-First Amendment, the right of a State to prohibit or regulate the importation of intoxicating liquor is not

limited by the commerce clause. P. 394.
2. Regulation discriminatory between domestic and imported intoxicating liquors, or between imported intoxicating liquors, is not prohibited by the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 394.
3. A statute of Michigan prohibits dealers in beer in that State
from selling any beer manufactured in a State which by its laws
discriminates, in manner described, against beer manufactured in
Michigan. Pursuant to the statute, the state Liquor Control
Commission designated specifically other States, ten in number,
including Indiana, which discriminated against Michigan beer;

whereupon Michigan licensees were prohibited from purchasing, receiving, possessing, or selling any beer manufactured in those
States. Held, as applied to an Indiana manufacturer of beer, who
sought to restrain the enforcement of the Michigan statute, it was
not void as violating the commerce, due process, or equal protection clauses of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 392, 394.
It is unnecessary to consider whether the statute is retaliatory
or protective in character; it is valid in either aspect.
4. The power of the State to forbid the sale of intoxicating liquor
is undoubted. P. 394.
21 F. Supp. 969, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of a District Court of three judges,
denying a temporary injunction and dismissing the bill,
in a suit to enjoin the enforcement of a state liquor law,
alleged to be "retaliatory" and unconstitutional.

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

Messr8. Thomas F. O'Mara and Herbert J. Patrick for
appellant.
Mr. Raymond W. Starr, Attorney General of Michigan,
with whom Mr. George H. Heideman, Assistant Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Indianapolis Brewing Company, Inc., an Indiana corporation, manufactures beer in that State. Under appropriate licenses' it has for some years sold and shipped
to dealers in Michigan its product in interstate commerce.
In July, 1937, the Michigan Liquor Control Act was
amended so as to prohibit Michigan dealers in beer from
selling any beer manufactured in a state which by its
laws discriminates against Michigan beer. By § 40 of
the amended Act, the Michigan Commission is directed
to declare what states discriminate as that term is defined
by the Act.' It named ten states.2 Among these is In'Amended § 40 of Michigan Act No. 281. Public Acts of 1937,
p. 509, provides: ".

.

. The commission shall forthwith adopt a

regulation designating the states, the laws, or the rules or regulations of which are found to require a licensed wholesaler of beer
therein to pay an additional fee for the right to purchase, import,
or sell beer manufactured in this state; or which deny the issuance
of a license authorizing the importation of beer to any duly licensed
wholesaler of beer therein who may make application for such
license; . ..the regulation adopted shall prohibit all lcensees from
purchasing, receiving, possessing, or selling any beer manufactured
in any state therein designated, said regulation to become effective
ninety days after its adoption. Any licensee or person adversely
affected shall be entitled to review by certiorari to the proper court
the question as to whether the commission has acted illegally or in
excess of authority in making its finding with respect to any state."
'The regulation of the Liquor Control Commission issued December 14, 1937, is as follows: "Pursuant to Act No. 8, Public Acts,
Extra Session of the year 1933 of the State of Michigan, as amended
by Act No. 241 of the Public Acts for the year 1935, and Act No.

BREWING CO. v. LIQUOR COMM'N.
391

393

Opinion of the Court.

diana, which by its Liquor Control Act of 1935, as
amended in 1937, prohibits licensed Indiana wholesalers
from importing any beer which is not their absolute property; and requires that in order to secure the privilege
of importing beer from other states each must obtain a
"port of entry" permit, of which no fewer than ten and
no more than one hundred are to be granted, pay a license
fee of $1500 and give a bond of $10,000, in addition to
the license fee and bond required of those who sell only
Indiana beer.'
The Indianapolis Company, suing on behalf of itself
and others similarly situated, brought, in the federal
court for eastern Michigan, this suit to enjoin the enforcement of that provision of the Michigan law on the
ground that it violates the Federal Constitution. The
members of the Michigan Liquor Control Commission and
other officers of the State were made defendants. As a
temporary, as well as a permanent, injunction was sought,
a three-judge court was convened to hear the application
for a temporary injunction. Defendants moved to dismiss the bill. It was conceded that if the law was unconstitutional the plaintiff was entitled to equitable
relief. No question except that of the constitutionality
of the law was presented. The court held the law valid;
denied the temporary injunction; and dismissed the bill.
21 F. Supp. 969.
281 of the Public Acts for the year 1937, particularly Section 40
thereof, the Michigan Liquor Control Commission promulgates the
following rule and regulation designating as discriminatory according to Section 40 of said Act the following States: Maine, Maryland, Nevada, Indiana, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Vermont, Washington. These designations are
made after a careful examination of the laws and rules and regulations of the aforementioned states."
'Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Act of 1935, c. 226, amended by Act
of 1937, c. 197, §§ 9, 40 (a), 41, Burns Revised Statutes 1933, Supp.,
§§ 12-508, 12-801, 12-901.

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

The plaintiff contends that although the Twenty-first
Amendment declares:
"The transportation or importation into any State, Territory or possession of the United States for delivery or
use therein of intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws
thereof, is hereby prohibited"
the Michigan law should be held void as violating the
commerce clause and the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. It characterizes
the law as "retaliatory"; argues, among other things, that
the Amendment may not be interpreted as permitting
retaliation; and insists that such interpretation would
defeat its purpose, as thereby Michigan would be allowed
to punish Indiana for doing what, under the rule applied
in State Board of Equalization v. Young's Market Co.,
299 U..S. 59, 63, is permitted. Whether the Michigan
law should not more properly be described as a protective
measure, we have no occasion to consider. For whatever
its character, the law is valid. Since the Twenty-first
Amendment, as held in the Young case, the right of a
state to prohibit or regulate the importation of intoxicating liquor is not limited by the commerce clause; and, as
held by that case and Mahoney v. Joseph Triner Corp.,
304 U. S. 401, discrimination between domestic and imported intoxicating liquors, or between imported intoxicating liquors, is not prohibited by the equal protection
clause. The further claim that the law violates the due
process clause is also unfounded. The substantive power
of the State to prevent the sale of intoxicating liquor is
undoubted. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623.
Affirmed.

