SCHER v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Petitioner.

SCHER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 49. Argued November 7, 1938.-Decided December 5, 1938.
1. In a prosecution for possession and transportation of distilled
spirits in containers lacking the requisite revenue stamps, in viola-

tion of § 201 of the Liquor Taxing Act of 1934, a defense that the
distilled spirits involved were not intended for sale and were therefore expressly excepted from the provisions of the Act must be
affirmatively proved. P. 254.
2. Under the circumstances disclosed in this case, the search of an
automobile and seizure of liquor therefrom, without a warrant,
after the car had entered a garage appurtenant to a private dwelling, to which it had been pursued by federal officers, was not an
unreasonable search and seizure; and, in a prosecution for violation
of § 201 of the Liquor Taxing Act of 1934, a motion to suppress the
evidence thereby obtained was properly overruled. P. 255.
3. A federal officer who has made an arrest following a tip as to a
violation of a federal law may not in a prosecution for such violation be required to reveal the identity of his informant, where this
is not essential to the defense. P. 254.
95 F. 2d 64, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 304 U. S. 557, to review the affirmance of
a conviction for violation of the Liquor Taxing Act of
1934.

Mr. Gerald A. Doyle, with whom Mr. A. L. Greenspun
was on the brief, for petitioner.
The search was illegal because the federal officers made
their way into part of a private dwelling without a warrant, and also because they were trespassers Within the
curtilage of the defendant's home when they discovered
evidence of the crime.
The constitutional prohibition against unreasonable
searches and seizures is construed liberally to safeguard
the rights of privacy. United States v. Lefkowitz, 285
U. S. 452; Go-Bart Importing Co. v. United States, 282

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

U. S. 344; Taylor v. United States, 286 U. S. 1; Sgro v.
United States, 287 U. S. 206. See also United States v.
Slusser, 270 F. 818; United States v. DiCorvo, 37 F. 2d
124; Elrod v. Moss, 278 F. 123; Gauske v. United States,
1 F. 2d 620; United States v. Olmstead, 7 F. 2d 760;
United States v. Spallino, 21 F. 2d 567.
While the automobile was the object that was searched,
the search was made in the garage of the defendant, and
therefore was a search of the garage itself.
The defendant was entitled to know the source of the
agents' information so that the court might determine
whether the information was given by a reliable informant and whether a case of probable cause had been
established.
Mr. Alexander Holtzoff, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and
Messrs. Mahlon D. Kiefer and Herbert A. Bergson were
on the brief, for the United States.
MR.JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner Scher was found guilty under two counts of
an indictment which charged violations of § 201, Title
II, Liquor Taxing Act, January 11, 1934,1 by possessing
Ch.1, § 201, 48 Stat. 313, 316 (U.S. C., Title 26, § 1152a, 1152g)-

"No person shall .. .transport, possess, buy, sell, or transfer any
distilled spirits, unless the immediate container thereof has affixed
thereto a stamp denoting the quantity of distilled spirits contained
therein and evidencing payment of all internal-revenue taxes imposed
on such spirits. The provisions of this title shall not apply to"(f) Distilled spirits not intended for sale or for use in the manu-

facture or production of any article intended for sale; . .."
Sec. 207--"Any person who violates any provision of this title, .
shall on conviction be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000, or by
imprisonment at hard labor not exceeding five years, or by both."

SCHER v. UNITED STATES.
251

Opinion of the Court.

and transporting distilled spirits in containers wanting
requisite revenue stamps. He was sentenced for a year
and a day, etc. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed
the judgment.
No objection to the judge's charge is urged and the
evidence submitted to the jury is adequate to support
the verdict.
The material facts are not in serious dispute. A brief
summation will suffice for the points to be considered.
Federal officers received confidential information
thought to be reliable that about midnight, December 30,
1935, a Dodge automobile with specified license plate
would transport "phony" whiskey from a specified dwelling in Cleveland, Ohio. About nine-thirty, officers posted
nearby saw the described automobile stop in front of the
house and remain there for an hour. A man, with three
women and a package, then entered the car and drove
away. It returned shortly before midnight, stopped at
the rear of the house and remained for half an hour. The
headlights were extinguished; the officers heard what
seemed to be heavy paper packages passing over wood.
Doors slammed; petitioner drove the car away, apparently heavily loaded. The officers followed in another
car. After going a few blocks petitioner stopped briefly
at a filling station; then he drove towards his own residence two or three blocks further along. The officers
followed. He turned into a garage a few feet back of
his residence and within the curtilage. One of the pursuing officers left their car and followed. As petitioner
was getting out of his car this officer approached, announced his official character, and stated he was informed
that the car was hauling bootleg liquor. Petitioner replied, "just a little for a party." Asked whether the liquor
was tax paid, he replied that it was Canadian whiskey;
also, he said it was in the trunk at the rear of the car.
The officer opened the trunk and found eighty-eight
bottles of distilled spirits in unstamped containers. He

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

arrested petitioner and seized both car and liquor. The
officer had no search warrant.
At the trial counsel undertook to question the arresting officers relative to the source of the information which
led them to observe petitioner's actions. Objections to
these questions were sustained and this is now assigned
as error.
Before trial petitioner's counsel moved "to suppress
all of the evidence obtained by the search made by the
Revenue agents in the above entitled cause, together
with all information obtained by reason of such search,
and to grant an order requiring the agents to return all
articles seized by reason of said search. . . ." In support of this he relied upon the facts above stated. Denial
of this motion is said to be error.
The exception in respect of transporting liquor not
intended for sale found in the statute affords matter for
affirmative defense. Queen v. United States, 64 App.
D. C. 301; 77 F. 2d 780.
In the circumstances the source of the information
which caused him to be observed was unimportant to
petitioner's defense. The legality of the officers' action
does not depend upon the credibility of something told
but upon what they saw and heard-what took place in
their presence. Justification is not sought because of
honest belief based upon credible information as in
United States v. Blich, 45 F. 2d 627.
Moreover, as often pointed out, public policy forbids
disclosure of an informer's identity unless essential to
the defense, as, for example, where this turns upon an
officer's good faith. Segurola v. United States, 16 F. 2d
563, 565; Shore v. United States, 60 App. D. C. 137; 49
F. 2d 519, 522; McInes v. United States, 62 F. 2d 180.
Considering the doctrine of Carroll v. United States,
267 U. S. 132 (see Husty v. United States, 282 U. S. 694),

CALIFORNIA v. LATIMER.
251

Syllabus.

and the application of this to the facts there disclosed,
it seems plain enough that just before he entered the
garage the following officers properly could have stopped
petitioner's car, made search and put him under arrest.
So much was not seriously controverted at the argument.
Passage of the car into the open garage closely followed by the observing officer did not destroy this right.
No search was made of the garage. Examination of the
automobile accompanied an arrest, without objection and
upon admission of probable guilt. The officers did
nothing either unreasonable or oppressive. Agnello v.
United States, 269 U. S. 20, 30; Wisniewski v. United
States, 47 F. 2d 825, 826.
The challenged judgment is
Affirmed.

CALIFORNIA v. LATIMER
No. 13, Original.

ET AL.

Argued November 7, 1938.-Decided December 5,
1938.

A bill filed here by California against the members of the Railroad
Retirement Board and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, to
enjoin them from enforcing against the State Belt Railroad-a
railroad on the San Francisco water front, owned by the State, and
operated by it in interstate commerce-the provisions of the Railroad Retirement Acts of 19.35 and 1937 and of the Carriers Taxing
Act of 1937, held without equity.
1. An alleged threat of the Railroad Retirement Board to require the
State Belt Railroad to gather and keep records of its employees,
does not expose it to irreparable injury. P. 259.
(a) A general allegation without supporting detail or specification that compliance with regulations of the Board would subject
the State "to great expense" is not an adequate basis for relief on
the ground of irreparable injury. P. 260.
(b) Moreover, the Board is without power to enforce its regulations except by resort to legal proceedings, and therein the State
would have ample opportunity to challenge the enforcement of the
Acts. P. 260.

