32

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

305 U. S.

DAVIS v. DAVIS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBiIA.

No. 16.

Argued October 14, 1938.-Decided November 7, 1938.

1. Under Art. IV, § 1, of the Constitution and R. S. § 905, a decree
of a court of Virginia is entitled to the same faith and credit in
the courts of the District of Columbia as it has by law or usage
in the courts of Virginia. P. 39.
2. Whether the matrimonial domicil is the domicil of the husband
depends upon the facts and circumstances of the case. P. 41.
3. A husband obtained, on tl ground of cruelty, a decree of separation from his wife in the District of Columbia, where both resided.
The decree gave her custody of one child and monthly alimony.
Some years later, the husband established his residence in Virginia
and sued in a Virginia court for absolute divorce on the ground
of desertion. Notice was served personally on the wife in the District of Columbia, where she continued to reside, and she filed in
the Virginia court a plea stating that she appeared there "specially
and for no other purpose than to file this plea to the jurisdiction
of the court." The plea alleged that neither she nor the husband
had been a resident of Virginia for a year before commencement
of the suit and asserted that he was not then a bona fide resident
there, but that the residence he was attempting to establish was
for the sole purpose of creating jurisdiction in the court to hear
and determine the suit for divorce and was therefore a fraud upon
the court and not residence in contemplation of law. It prayed
judgment whether the court "can or will take any further cognizance of the action aforesaid." There was a decree of reference to
a commissioner to ascertain and report whether the court had
jurisdiction and whether a divorce should be granted, the decree
reciting, inter alia, that counsel had been heard in argument. The
commissioner reported that by stipulation of counsel, he had limited his inquiry to the jurisdiction; that he had taken all the testimony submitted by the parties, and that in his opinion the husband was a bona fide resident of Virginia and that the court had
jurisdiction to hear and determine the cause. There was a hearing
upon the wife's exceptions to the report, after which the .court
found that the husband had been a resident of the Virginia county
for the requisite time and that it had jurisdiction of the subject-

DAVIS v. DAVIS.
32

Argument for Petitioner.

matter and of the parties; and confirmed the report. The court
granted the wife further time in which to appeal or to answer, but
she did neither. The cause proceeded and there was a final decree
of absolute divorce upon the ground of wilful desertion, with an
allowance for support of the child but no alimony for the
wife, the decree reciting that there had been a hearing upon
specified papers and depositions taken before a commissioner pursuant to notice served in the county, on counsel who had entered
special appearance for respondent, and upon her personally in
the District of Columbia. Held:
(a) Construing the wife's appearance as special, she was nevertheless bound by the finding of the Virginia court on residence
and jurisdiction, and the decree was enforceable in the courts of
the District of Columbia. Haddock v. Haddock, 201 U. S. 562,
distinguished. P. 40.
(b) The wife's participation in the Virginia litigation was such
as to amount to a general appearance. P. 42.
No question is presented in this case as to the power of the
District of Columbia court over alimony.
96 F. 2d 512, reversed.
ON CERTIORARI, 304 U. S. 552, to review a decree refusing recognition to a Virginia decree of absolute divorce
secured by a husband who changed his residence to that
State from the District of Columbia.

Mr. Joseph T. Shterier for petitioner.
Refusal to recognize the decree of the Virginia court
violates Article IV, § 1, of the Constitution, and R. S.
§ 905. Cheeley v. Clayton, 110 U. S. 701, 705; Thompson
v. Thompson, 226 U. S. 551; 35 App. D. C. 14; Atherton v. Atherton, 181 U. S. 155; Bloedorn v. Bloedorn, 64
App. D. C. 199, 201.
The appearance and participation of the wife in the
hearing in the Virginia court gave that court full jurisdiction. Baldwin v. Iowa State Traveling Men's Assn.,
83 U. S. 522; American Surety Co. v. Baldwin, 287 U. S.
166.

The ruling below that the petitioner, subsequently to

the judicial separation granted him, could not acquire a
105537 -39-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Respondent.

305 U. S.

new domicile which would support an action for divorce,
is in conflict with Barber v. Barber, 21 How. 582, 594;
Cheever v. Wilson, 9 Wall. 108, 124; Haddock v. Haddock, 201 U. S. 562; Williamson v. Osenton, 232 U. S.
619. See Hunt v. Hunt, 72 N. Y. 217, 243. It is also in
conflict with Rollins v. Rollins, 60 App. D. C. 305, 307,
and Marcum v. Marcum, 61 App. D. C. 332, 334.
Where one spouse has justifiably left the other, or the
parties are living apart by virtue of a judicial separation,
there is no matrimonial domicile, and the innocent party
may acquire another, with jurisdiction in the courts of
the latter to decree a divorce of binding validity everywhere.
The decision of the court below was by three judges
only, and not by the full court of five required by the
statute, although hearing by the full court was requested.
Mr. Crandal Mackey for respondent.
When a husband goes to a State solely for divorce
purposes, he does not carry the marital res with-him,
and the courts of the State to which he has gone have
no jurisdiction to entertain his divorce suit.
Recitals of the decrees entered in divorce cases in one
State are not binding on the court of another State; they
may be contradicted.
The bona fides of the residence of a party who obtains
a divorce in one State may be inquired into by the courts
of another State. Bell v. Bell, 181 U. S. 175; Streitwolf v.
Streitwolf, 181 U. S. 179; Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S.
14; Haddock v. Haddock, 201 U. S. 502; Simmons v.
Simmons, 57 App. D. C. 216; Cheeley v. Clayton, 110
U. S. 701; Frey v. Frey, 61 App. D. C. 232.
There was nothing in the Act of February 9, 1893, 27
Stat. 434, establishing the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, to require a full court to constitute a
quorum. The Act of June 19, 1930, increased the number

DAVIS v. DAVIS.
32

Opinion of the Court.

of Justices to five, and provided that they "shall have
the same tenure of office, pay and emoluments, powers
and duties, as provided by law, for the Justices of said
court." There was nothing in the Act requiring more
than three judges to decide a case, just as there was
nothing in the Act of 1893 requiring more than two
judges to decide a case.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The lower court held a decree of the circuit court of
Arlington County, Virginia, entered June 26, 1929, granting petitioner an absolute divorce from respondent upon
the ground of desertion, not entitled to recognition in the
supreme (now district) court of the District of Columbia.
The question arose upon his application to. that court to
set aside or modify a decree it entered October 29, 1925,
granting him divorce a mensa et thoro from respondent
on the ground of cruelty.
In the District of Columbia, absolute divorce was not
then permitted for desertion or cruelty.' In Virginia,
absolute divorce was authorized where either party willfully deserted or abandoned the other for three years.2
The circuit courts there have jurisdiction over suits for
divorce apd alimony. No suit for divorce is maintainable
unless one of the parties has been domiciled in the State
for at least a year preceding its commencement. 3
Petitioner and respondent married in 1909 and, until
about the time he brought the suit for limited divorce,
lived together in the District of Columbia. They had a son
and daughter. The decree of separation awarded to him
custody of the son; to her, custody of the daughter; and
1

D. C. Code, Tit. 14, § 63.
'Va. Code, 1924, § 5103.
'Va. Code, 1936, § 5105.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

directed him to pay $300 a month for support of wife and
daughter.
Petitioner's complaint in the Virginia court alleged
that he was a resident of that State for the requisite time,
showed that respondent was a resident of the District of
Columbia, fully disclosed the proceedings and decree in
the District court, and alleged continuous desertion commencing before and extending for more than three years
after entry of that decree. Process of the Virginia court
was served personally upon the respondent in the District of Columbia. She filed a plea stating that she
appeared "specially and for no other purpose than to file
this plea to the jurisdiction of the court." In that document she alleged that neither she nor petitioner had been
a resident of Virginia for a year before commencement of
the suit; and asserted that he was not then a bona fide
resident there, but that the residence he was attempting
to establish was for the sole purpose of creating jurisdiction in the court to hear and determine the suit for
divorce, and was therefore a fraud upon the court and
not residence in contemplation of law. The plea prayed
judgment whether the court "can or will take any further
cognizance of the action aforesaid."
The court entered a decree reciting that the cause came
on for hearing upon the complaint, exhibits, other papers,
and "argument of counsel," and referring the cause to a
commissioner in chancery to ascertain and report whether
the court had jurisdiction to hear and determine it and
whether a decree of divorce should be entered. The
commissioner reported that "by stipulation of counsel it
was agreed," that he should only ascertain the facts
raised in the plea to the jurisdiction and that no other
matter should be inquired into or reported; that he had
taken all the testimony submitted by the parties; that in
his opinion petitioner was a bona fide resident of Arling-

DAVIS v. DAVIS.
32

Opinion of the Court.

ton County, Virginia, and that the court had jurisdiction
to hear and determine the cause.
Respondent filed exceptions, reiterating the allegations
of her plea and asserting that the commissioner's findings
were contrary to the evidence. There was a hearing upon
the report and exceptions. After argument of counsel
for the parties and upon consideration of the evidence,
the court found that petitioner was a resident of Arlington County, Virginia, for the requisite time; that it had
jurisdiction of the "subject matter and of the parties";
overruled the exceptions, and confirmed the report. Respondent having signified her desire to apply for an appeal, the court ordered operation of the decree suspended
for a period of thirty days. It also granted respondent
ten days "within which to file such answer or other pleadings in this cause as she may wish." She did not appeal
or file answer or other pleading.
The final decree states that the case came on for hearing upon specified papers and depositions of five named
persons, taken before a commissioner pursuant to notice
served in Arlington County, on counsel who had entered
special appearance for respondent, and upon her personally in the District of Columbia. It found: Respondent willfully deserted petitioner February 24, 1925; the
desertion continued from that date; three years had
elapsed since the entry of the decree a mensa et thoro;
there has been no reconciliation, and none is probable.
It granted petitioner absolute divorce, divested respondent of all rights in his property, and required him to pay
$150 per month for support of the daughter. No alimony was allowed respondent.
December 30, 1929, petitioner applied to the District
court to have its decree set aside or modified so as not
to require him to pay any amount for maintenance of
respondent but to provide for the payment of a reason-

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

able sum for the support of their daughter. The application was based solely upon the Virginia decree. Respondent appeared and opposed the application but raised
no question as to the jurisdiction of the Virginia court.
It was denied. The court of appeals affirmed on the
grounds that the lower court, having entered the decree,
retained jurisdiction to enforce or modify its order for
maintenance of the wife and daughter; that petitioner's
removal to Virginia did not invest the courts of that
State with authority to annul or supersede that jurisdiction; and that, the District court having first acquired
jurisdiction of the subject matter, its authority continues
until the matter is finally disposed of. 61 App. D. C. 48;
57 F. 2d 414. In passing upon that application, neither
court considered or decided any question as to jurisdiction
of the Virginia court.
April 16, 1935, petitioner filed in the District court another application tW have its decree set aside or modified
as before prayed. He then sought relief on three grounds:
The decree of the Virginia court, the fact that his daughter
had married and was no longer living with respondent,
and diminution of his income. Respondent answered, alleging that petitioner never- was a resident of Virginia
and denying the desertion found by the Virginia court.
There was a hearing, at which petitioner offered evidence
showing the proceedings and decree in the Virginia court,
the marriage of the daughter, and that she was living with
her husband. Then counsel for respondent applied for
time to secure her attendance and that of witnesses who,
as he said, would give testimony that petitioner went to
Virginia for the sole purpose of getting a divorce, and
that he never became a bona fide resident there. Petitioner's counsel admitted that, if present, respondent and
the witnesses referred to would so testify, but insisted that
the testimony would be incompetent. Respondent offered
no other evidence. The trial court denied the application.

DAVIS v. DAVIS.
32

Opinion of the Court.

The court of appeals, in an unreported opinion, held
its earlier decision established the law of the case. Declaring petitioner not responsible for maintenance of his,
daughter after her marriage, it held that fact should be
taken into account, and remanded the case for further
consideration as to the amount of alimony to be allowed
respondent. Petitioner applied for and the court granted
rehearing. It heard argument and filed an opinion, in
which it adhered to its ruling that its earlier decision was
the law of the case, and held that the decision of the lower
court refusing to enforce petitioner's decree of absolute
divorce should stand. It said: "The Virginia court did
not have full jurisdiction of the parties and the subject
matter, and, hence, the decree was not entitled to full
faith and credit. .

.

.

It was necessary . . . under . . .

Haddock v. Haddock [201 U. S. 562] . . . that Virginia
be the last matrimonial domicil of the parties, or, if not,
that the wife be subjected to the jurisdiction of the court
[below] either by personal service within the State, or
by voluntary appearance and participation in the suit."
It held that the matrimonial domicil was not in Virginia;
that respondent's special appearance did not give the Virginia court full jurisdiction, or constitute waiver of her
objection to jurisdiction. It held petitioner's application
one addressed to the discretion of the lower court and that
its omission to consider the marriage of the daughter
constituted failure to exercise discretion. Accordingly,
it reversed and remanded for further proceedings in accordance with the opinion. 96 F. 2d 512.
Art. IV, § 1, requires that judicial proceedings in each
State shall be given full faith and credit in the courts of
every other State.' The Act of May 26, 1790, 1 Stat.
'"Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the public
Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State. And
the Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which
such Acts, Records and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect
thereof."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

122, as amended, R. S. § 905, 28 U. S. C. § 687, declares
that judicial proceedings authenticated as there provided
shall have such faith and credit given to them in every
"court within the United States as they have by law or
usage in the courts of the State from which they are
taken."' Thus Congress rightly interpreted the clause
to mean, not some, but full credit. Haddock v. Haddock,
supra, 567. The Act extended the rule of the Constitution to all courts, federal as well as state. Mills v. Duryee,
7 Cr. 481, 485.
As to petitioner's domicil for divorce and his standing
to invoke jurisdiction of the Virginia court, its finding
that he was a bona fide resident of that State for the required time is binding upon respondent in the courts of
the District. She may not say that he was not entitled
to sue for divorce in the state court, for she appeared
there and by plea put in issue his allegation as to domicil,
introduced evidence to show it false, took exceptions to
the commissioner's report, and sought to have the court
sustain them and uphold her plea. Plainly, the determination of the decree upon that point is effective for all
purposes in this litigation. Baldwin v. Traveling Men's
Assn., 283 U. S. 522, 525-526.
'"The acts of the legislature of any State or Territory, or of
any country subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, shall
be authenticated by having the seals of such State, Territory, or
country affixed thereto. The records and judicial proceedings of the
courts of any State or Territory, or of any such country, shall be
proved or admitted in any other court within the United States, by
the attestation of the clerk, and the seal of the court annexed, if
there be a seal, together with a certificate of the judge, chief
justice, or presiding magistrate, that the said attestation is in due
form. And the said records and judicial proceedings, so authenticated, shall have such faith and credit given to them in every court
within the United States as they have by law or usage in the courts
of the State from which they are taken."

DAVIS v. DAVIS.
32

Opinion of the Court.

Nor can it be said that the domicil was not adequate to
support, in virtue of the rule of full faith and credit established by Congress, a decree enforceable in the courts of
the District of Columbia. Depending on the connection
in which used, various meanings have been attributed to
the phrase matrimonial domicil. See Atherton v. Atherton, 181 U. S. 155, 171; Andrews v. Andrews, 188 .U. S.
14, 40; Haddock v. Haddock, supra, 572; Thompson v.
Thompson, 226 U. S. 551, 562. Definition, inclusive and
exclusive, is not to be found; it need not be attempted
here. It is enough to say that care should always be taken
to determine upon the facts and circumstances of each
case whether, in accordance with the general rule, it is
the domicil of the husband. See Cheely v. Clayton, 110
U. S. 701, 705; Thompson v. Thompson, upra. Cf. Barber v. Barber, 21 How. 582, 592, 594; Cheever v. Wilson,

9 Wall. 108i 124. In this case, the wife has been adjudged by the decree a mensa et thoro, on which she
relies, to have disrupted the marital relation. And by the
decree of the Virginia court, the enforcement of which
she opposes, she is adjudged to have persisted in desertion of petitioner for a period more than sufficient to entitle him under the laws of that State to dissolution of
the bonds. Cf. Harding v. Harding, 198 U. S. 317, 338339. While in that State litigating the question of his
standing to sue, she chose not to answer charges of willful
desertion.
This case differs essentially from Haddoik v. Haddock,
supra, relied on by the lower court. There the husband,
immediately after marriage in New York, fled to escape
his marital obligations and never returned to discharge
any of them. The wife remained in that State. He
acquired domicil in Connecticut and there obtained absolute divorce. She did not appear in the Connecticut court
for any purpose. There was no suggestion that she was
at fault or did anything to disrupt the marital relation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

In this case, there exists none of the reasons on which we
held the New York court not bound by the full faith and
credit clause to enforce in that State the husband's Conhecticut divorce. Petitioner frankly presented to the
Virginia court the grounds on which he sought release.
He gave respondent actual notice of the suit. She appeared, specially as she maintains, and raised and tried
the question whether he had standing to sue. In view
of these facts, and of her conduct, adjudged repugnant
to the marital relation, it would be unreasonable to hold
that his domicil in Virginia was not sufficient to entitle
him to obtain a divorce having the same force in the
District as in that State.
As to respondent's appearance in the Virginia court.The assertion in her plea that it was special and made for
the sole purpose of challenging jurisdiction is of no consequence if in fact it was not so limited. Sugg v. Thornton, 132 U. S. 524, 530. Sterling Tire Corp. v. Sullivan,
279 F. 336, 339. If the plea alone may not be held to
amount to a general appearance, there arises the question
whether, by her participation in the litigation and acquiescence in the orders of the court relating to merits, she
submitted herself to its jurisdiction for all purposes. Her
plea and conduct are to be considered together.
There had been no claim of jurisdiction over her person.
The plea did not challenge jurisdiction over petitioner or
the court's authority, if appropriately invoked, to grant
the decree petitioner sought. It merely asserted that h&
lacked domicil required by Virginia law. Her allegations
and prayer show that the sole purpose of the plea was to
join issue with petitioner's allegation of domicil in Virginia, to secure a finding against him on that point, to
obtain decree that he had no standing to bring the suit
and so put an end to his efforts to obtain divorce in that
State.

DAVIS v. DAVIS.
32

Opinion of the Court.

The recital in the decree of reference, that the cause
came on for hearing upon, inter alia, argument of counsel,
suggests that both parties were heard. The stipulation
of counsel that the commissioner should only ascertain
the facts raised by her plea shows action by both parties
relating to merits, at least to the extent that it withdrew
the case from the commissioner. The record discloses no
challenge by respondent to the statement, in the decree
overruling her exceptions, that the court had jurisdiction
of the subject matter and of the parties. The grant of
time within which to answer implies application to that
end. A motion for such an order relates to merits. Hupfeld v. Automaton Piano Co., 66 F. 788, 789. The
service of notice of taking depositions upon respondent
in the District of Columbia and upon her counsel in Virginia implies that petitioner's counsel understood that
respondent had standing to appear and cross-examine.
Plainly her plea and conduct in the Virginia court cannot
be regarded as special appearance merely to challenge
jurisdiction. Considered in its entirety, the record shows
that she submitted herself to the jurisdiction of the Virginia court and is bound by its determination that it had
jurisdiction of the subject matter and of the parties. Cf.
Andrews v. Andrews, supra, 40.
No question is here presented as to the effect of the
Virginia decree on the power of the District of Columbia
court over alimony.
Petitioner is entitled as a matter of right to have the
Virginia decree given effect in the courts of the District
of Columbia. The decree of the court of appeals must be
reversed; the case will be remanded to the district court
for proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

