EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
188

Syllabus.

the amount of his claim did not alter its nature or the
quality of its recognition through the distribution which
he did receive.
We are not convinced by the argument that petitioner
had but "the expectations" of an heir and realized on a
"bargaining position." He was heir in fact. Whether
he would receive any property in that capacity depended
upon the validity of his ancestor's will and the extent
to which it would dispose of his ancestor's estate. When,
by compromise and the decree enforcing it, that disposition was limited, what he got from the estate came to him
because he was heir, the compromise serving to remove
pro tanto the impediment to his inheritance. We are of
the opinion that the exemption applies.
In this view we find it unnecessary to consider the other
questions that have been discussed at the bar.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.

CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO. ET AL. v. NATIONAL
LABOR RELATIONS BOARD ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 19.

FOR THE

Argued October 14, 17, 1938.-Decided December 5, 1938.

1. The power of the Federal Government, and the provisions of the
National Labor Relations Act, extend to the labor relations of
public utilities engaged in supplying electrical energy, gas and
steam, where the business and activities of the utilities are wholly
within a State, and where the quantum of service rendered to
customers for strictly intrastate uses is vast and greatly preponderant, but where, nevertheless, a part of that service, of
much importance in itself, is to railroads, steamships, telegraphs,
*Together with No. 25, International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers et al. v. National Labor Relations Board et al., also on writ
of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

305 U. S.

telephones, etc., engaged in interstate or foreign commerce, and
where that commerce would be seriously affected if such service were
cut off by industrial strife between the utilities and their employees
resulting from unfair labor practices. P. 219.
Petitioners, an integrated system of public utilities, are engaged
in supplying electric energy, gas and steam (and certain byproducts) within New York City and adjacent Westchester County.
They serve over 3,500,000 customers with electricity and gas,
largely for residential and domestic purposes. In 1936 they supplied about 97.5 per cent. of the total electric energy sold in the
City and about 100 per cent. of that sold in the County. They
do not sell for resale without the State. They have about 42,000
employees, their total payrolls in 1936, with retirement annuities and
separation allowances, amounting to nearly $82,000,000. There is
also impressive evidence of the dependence of interstate and foreign
commerce upon the continuity of the service of the petitioning
companies. Upon that service depend: three railroad companies
for the lighting and operation of passenger and freight terminals,
and for the movement of interstate trains; the Port of New York
Authority for the operation of its terminal and a tunnel between
New York and New Jersey; a majority of the piers of transatlantic
and coastwise steamship companies along the North and East
Rivers, within the City of New York, for lighting, freight handling
and related uses; two telegraph companies and a telephone company
for power for transmitting and receiving messages, local and interstate; also a transatlantic radio service; an airport; and the
Federal Government, for operation of lighthouses, beacons and
harbor lights, and for light, heat and power in various federal
buildings in New York City. In passing upon the status of these
petitioners with respect to the federal power of regulation, the Court
does not consider supplies of oil, coal, etc., although very large,
which come from without the State and are consumed in the generation and distribution of electric energy and gas.
2. The criterion of the federal constitutional power to suppress unfair
labor practices, under the National Labor Relations Act, is the
injurious effect upon interstate and foreign commerce, rather than
the source of the injury. P. 222.
3. Whether or not particular action in the conduct of intrastate
enterprises affects interstate or foreign commerce in such a close
and intimate fashion as to be subject to federal control, depends
upon the particular case. P. 222.
4. The fact that a State has the power, and has enacted a statute,
to regulate the labor relations of intrastate enterprises in order

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

199

Syllabus.

to prevent interruption of their services through industrial disputes
can not affect the constitutional power of the Federal Government
to regulate those relations, in order to protect interstate and foreign
commerce from the injury due to such interruption. P. 222.
5. But where, in such cases, the authority of the National Labor
Relations Board is invoked to protect interstate and foreign commerce from interference or injury arising from the employers' intrastate activities, the question whether the alleged unfair labor
practices do actually threaten interstate or foreign commerce in a
substantial manner is necessarily presented. And in determining
that factual question regard should be had to all the existing
circumstances, including the bearing and effect of any protective
action to the same end already taken under state authority. The
justification for the exercise of federal power should clearly appear.
But the question in such a case would relate not to the existence
of the federal power but to the propriety of its exercise on a given
state of facts. P. 223.
The present proceeding was begun before the New York Labor
Relations Act became effective, and there was no exertion of state
authority which could be taken to remove the need for the exertion of federal authority to protect interstate and foreign commerce. The exercise of the federal power to protect interstate
and foreign commerce from injury does not depend upon a clash
with state action and need not await the exercise of state
authority.
6. Amendments to the complaint in a proceeding before the National Labor Relations Board,-held discretionary rulings affording no ground for challenging the validity of the hearing. P. 224.
7. A refusal by the National Labor Relations Board to permit the
respondent employers to adduce certain additional testimony,
highly important, which could have been received without undue
delay,-held unreasonable and arbitrary. P. 225.
8. Where the National Labor Relations Board, in abuse of its discretion, refuses to receive important additional testimony which
could have been received without undue delay of the proceeding,
the injured party has his remedy by application to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, upon review of the order, for leave to adduce
the additional evidence, under § 10 (e) (f) of the Act. P. 226.
9. After the taking of the evidence by a trial examiner, in a case
under the National Labor Relations Act, the employers filed a
brief with him. Several weeks later the case was transferred to
the Board. The examiner made no tentative report or findings,

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

305 U. S.

and there was no opportunity for a hearing before the Board itself
before the Board made its decision. Held:
(1) That it must be assumed that the Board received and considered the brief. P. 226.
(2) Under the rules of the Board, the employers desiring an oral
hearing should have requested it, after the transfer to the Board.
P. 228.
(3) Though it can not be said on this record that the Board
did not consider the evidence or the petitioner's brief or failed to
make its own findings in the light of that evidence and argument,
it would have been better practice for the Board to have directed
the examiner to make a tentative report with an opportunity for
exceptions and argument thereon. P. 228.
10. In providing that "the findings of the Board as to the facts, if
supported by evidence, shall be conclusive," the Act means supported by substantial evidence-such evidence as a reasonable mind
might accept as adequate to support a conclusion. P. 229.
The statute provides that "the rules of evidence prevailing in
courts of law and equity shall not be controlling." The obvious
purpose of this and similar provisions is to free administrative
boards from the compulsion of technical rules so that the mere
admission of matter which would be deemed incompetent in judicial
proceedings would not invalidate the administrative order. But
this assurance of a desirable flexibility in administrative procedure
does not go so far as to justify orders without a basis in evidence
having rational probative force. Mere uncorroborated hearsay or
rumor does not constitute substantial evidence.
11. The National Labor Relations Board is authorized to bar the
resumption of an unfair labor practice which has lately been
abandoned. P. 230.
The Court is satisfied from the evidence in this case that the
order of the Board, in so far as it required employer companies
to desist from certain discriminating and coercive practices, and to
reinstate certain employees, with back pay, and to post notices
assuring freedom from discrimination and coercion, rested upon
findings sustained by the evidence and that the decree of the Court
of Appeals enforcing the order in 'these respects should be
affirmed.
12. In a proceeding in which the National Labor Relations Board
found employer companies guilty of unfair labor practices violating
§ 8 (1) and (3) of the National Labor Relations Act, but exculpated them from alleged violation of § 8 (2), which makes it an

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

201

Syllabus.

unfair labor practice "to dominate or interfere with the formation
or administration of any labor organization or contribute financial
support to it," the Board nevertheless attempted, in its order, to
set aside agreements which had been made, pending the proceeding, between the companies and a Brotherhood of workers and its
local unions, all independent organizations not under the companies'
control. These agreements stipulated that the Brotherhood should
be the collective bargaining agency of those of the companies'
employees who were its members (comprising 80% of all the companies' employees out of 38,000 eligible for membership), and
that the Brotherhood and its members would not intimidate or
coerce employees into membership. in the Brotherhood or solicit
membership on the time or property of the employers. They also
provided against strikes or lockouts and for the adjustment and
arbitration of labor disputes, thus insuring against the disruption
of the service of the companies to interstate or foreign commerce
through an outbreak of industrial strife. It was conceded that the
contracts were fair to both employer and employee. Held that
so much of the Board's order, as forbade the companies to give
effect to such agreements, was beyond its authority. Pp. 231, 238.
(1) The Brotherhood and its locals having valuable and beneficial interests in the contracts were entitled to notice and hearing
before they could be set aside. National Labor Relations Board v.
Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261, distinguished.
P. 232.
(2) Notice of the complaint, in which the legality of the companies' "relations" with the Brotherhood was attacked, but not
the validity of the contracts, did not place the unions under a duty
to intervene before the Board in order to safeguard their interests
in the contracts. P. 234.
(3) The rule that due process does not require an opportunity to
be heard before judgment if defenses may be presented upon appeal, assumes that the -appellate' review affords opportunity to
present all available defenses including lack of proper notice to
justify the judgment or order complained of. P. 234.
(4) The validity of the contracts was not necessarily in issue
because of the charges of unfair labor practices in the Board's complaint; and amendment of the companies' answer, stating that the
contracts had made the proceeding moot, did not put them in issue
before the Board. P. 234.
(5) The Act gives no express authority to the Board to invalidate contracts with independent labor organizations. The authority

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

305 U. S.

granted by § 10 (c) to require that an employer guilty of unfair
labor practices desist from such practices, and "take such affirmative action, incifiding reinstatement of employees with or without
back pay, as will effectuate the policies of this Act," is remedial,
not punitive, and is to be exercised in aid of the Board's authority
to restrain violations and as a means of removing or avoiding the
consequences of violation where those consequences are of a kind
to thwart the purposes of the Act. P. 235.
Here, there is no basis for a finding that the contracts with the
Brotherhood and its locals were a consequence of the unfair
labor practices found by the Board or that these contracts in
themselves thwart any policy of the Act or that their cancellation would in any way make the order to cease the specified practices any more effective.
(6) The contracts were not invalid because made during the
pendency of the Board's proceeding. P. 237.
The effect of such pendency extends to the practices of the employers to which the complaint was addressed. It did not suspend the right of the employees to self-organization or preclude
the Brotherhood as an independent organization chosen by its
members from making fair contracts on their behalf.
(7) The contention of the Board that the contracts were the
fruit of the unfair labor practices of the employers,--"a device to
consummate and perpetuate" the companies' illegal conduct, and
constituted its culmination,-is rejected as entirely too broad and as
not within the complaint and proof, but based on mere conjecture.
P. 238.
(8) A provision of the Board's order requiring the companies to
cease recognizing the Brotherhood "as the exclusive representative of their employees," is construed as merely providing that
there shall be no interference with an exclusive bargaining agency
if one other than the Brotherhood should be established in accordance with the provisions of the Act, and is sustained as merely an
application of existing law. P. 239.
95 F.2d 390, affirmed with modification.

CERTIORARI, 304 U. S. 555, to review a judgment enforc-

ing an order of the National Labor Relations Board. See
4 N. L. R. B. 71. The case was before the court below
upon a petition to set aside the order, brought by the
Consolidated Edison Company of New York and its
affiliates, and a like petition by the International Brother-

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Argument for Petitioners.

hood of Electrical Workers and its locals, which intervened
in that court, and upon the Board's petition to enforce,
supported by the United Electrical and Radio Workers of
America which also intervened in that court.
Mr. William L. Ransom for petitioners in No. 19.
I. The Board has not shown that its assumption of
jurisdiction was essential or appropriate, or that such
jurisdiction has been or could be conferred upon the Board
under existing constitutional provisions and concepts.
The petitioners' operations, relations and labor practices are exclusively and entirely intrastate. They are
carried on wholly within a single State and traditionally
subject to plenary jurisdiction of the State; they are appropriately regulated and supervised as local concerns
affected with a local public interest. Brush v.. Comrmissioner, 300 U. S. 352, 371; Pacific Gas & Electric
Co. v. Sacramento Municipal Utility Dist., 92 F. 2d
365, 369; 303 U. S. 620; Southern Natural Gas Corp.
v. Alabama, 301 U. S. 148, 154; Missouri v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 265 U. S. 298.
Because of the extent and immediacy of the functional
dependence of New Yo;k City and Westchester County
and the millions of their inhabitants upon the petitioners'
services, the local interest in petitioners' uninterrupted
supply of their services is predominant and paramount.
Petitioners' operations and labor relations are predominantly local rather than National because of the directness and immediacy of their relation to the health, safety,
comfort, and convenience and general welfare of the
people who reside and do business in the City and State
of New York, and because of the dependence of that City
and State thereon, in exercising their police powers for
the maintenance of order and public convenience and the
protection of the safety and well-being of their inhabitants. Such National interest as may attend such local
operations, relations and labor practices and relate to the

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Petitioners.

305 U. S.

prevention or removal of burdens or obstructions to "commerce," is essentially subordinate and requires no separate identification so as to serve as a basis for federal
regulation.
In view of this paramount local interest in petitioners'
service and operations, and the all-inclusive measures in
effect under the laws of the State of New York, including
the New York State Labor Relations Act applicable to
petitioners, who are subject fully to the laws of the State,
the exercise of federal authority by the Board is not
"essential or appropriate," but definitely contrary to the
mandate of this Court. Florida v. United States, 282
U. S. 194, 211, 212; cf. Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294
U. S. 176; Hopkins Savings Assn. v. Cleary, 296 U. S. 315.
There has been no burdening or obstruction of commerce by any interruption of petitioners' services because
of any labor controversy; there is no evidence that any
such interruption is likely from such a cause, or that a
labor controversy involving petitioner's employees would
be less likely under the Board's jurisdiction, or would
not be as effectively dealt with by the State Board, and
there is no finding of any inadequacy of the state jurisdiction and regulation of the petitioners' labor practices.
The various rulings of this Court under the Act are not
decisive or controlling here, because in those cases the
employer was itself engaged actively in interstate commerce, and the employer's business was organized and
conducted predominantly as an enterprise in interstate
commerce, beyond full control in all aspects by a single
State, and the employer was not, as here, a local operating public utility affected predominantly with a local public interest and already subject to plenary jurisdiction by
the State and locality, including regulation as to its labor
practices, and with a State Labor Relations Act and State
Labor Relations Board in existence and functioning.

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Argument for Petitioners.

To uphold the jurisdiction asserted here by the Board
would not only disregard the plain admonitions in the
decision of National Labor Relations Board v. Jones &
Laughlin Steel Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 30; but also would
require substantial modification of the ruling of this Court
under the commerce clause, in Florida v. United States,
282 U. S. 194, 211, 212, and other recent decisions.
Jurisdiction was not conferred because some of the
petitioners' supplies are acquired by others who bring
them into the State of New York. The facts as to the
origins of supplies used by petitioners show that gas-oil
is delivered to only one of the petitioners; delivery is
made by the seller, within the City of New York; delivery
of coal to the storage yards and stations, all within that
City or in Yonkers, is made by independent enterprisers;
no employee of the petitioners is engaged in interstate
transportation of any materials; some of the supplies
other than coal and oil originate outside the State.
Purchases are made only from non-affiliated producers
or dealers, and purchases extra-state are shipped only
through instrumentalities of transportation which are
owned and operated by independent carriers. All purchases are made by individual contracts covering the
particular transaction. The source of sulply may change,
depending upon market conditions, or the needs- of particular petitioners. Requirements of particular petitioners are supplied from storage; no employee of any
petitioner is involved until the supplies have "come to
rest" in storage, and only an insignificant number of
employees is involved until the supplies are moved into
consumption.
The record shows that the petitioners make all of their
purchases for their own consumption exclusively. They
buy nothing for resale in interstate markets or elsewhere;
they sell their by-products entiiely within the State of

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Petitioners.

305 U. S.

New York and credit the proceeds against their production costs.
The controlling fact here, as in Schechter Poultry Corp.
v. United States, 295 U. S. 495, 554, is that, although coal,
oil and other materials originate outside the State, the
use of such materials is essentially and only local and
intra-state. The interstate transportation that precedes
local manufacture and distribution can not be isolated to
the exclusion of the local use for which the materials are
intended. Since this use is local in its immediacy, it
counteracts and outweighs the fact that the materials
have an interstate origin; otherwise, every intrastate
transaction which involved interstate transportation by
others would come within federal control and thereby put
an end to our federal system.
This Court has held that even where a utility company buys its supply of gas from interstate distribution
(which these petitioners do not do as to gas, electricity,
or steam), the state jurisdiction is nevertheless paramount with respect to the operations of the utility company. Missouri v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 265 U. S.
298, 309.
In the Jones & Laughlin decision and the others which
have followed it, this Court has pointed out that the Act
here is not to be construed and applied so as to destroy
"the balance of the constitutional grants and limitations,"
and may not apply to wholly intra-state activities unless
"their control is" essential or appropriate to protect commerce from direct burdens and obstructions.
The contentions at one time urged before this Court in
behalf of the Board, to the effect that the record must
show that there is a reasonable probability that the lAbor
practices will cause strikes with an intent to interfere with
commerce, and that if such strikes "do develop they will
have a necessary effect of burdening and obstructing
commerce," etc., are no longer urged. Emphasis is no

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Argunent for Petitioners.

longer placed by the Board on the interstate structure
and organization of an industry and the need for a regulation as broad in scope as the scale of the operations.
The present position is that if the Board makes a finding
that the "stoppage of . . . operations by industrial
strife" in a particular enterprise would result in what
the Board regards as a substantial interruption or interference with interstate commerce, even though it be
commerce carried on wholly by others, the Board has
jurisdiction. A few employees belonging to a minority
labor organization can file a charge against a purely
local employer; the Board need only to find that a strike
and stoppage of operations by the employer would obstruct or interfere with commerce, and the Board has
thereby given itself jurisdiction to hear and determine the
charge. The Board here made a finding couched in the
language of the statute "that the activities of the respondents . . . tend to lead to labor disputes burdening
and obstructing commerce and the free flow of commerce."
Cf. §.2 (7) of the Act. By a similar process, virtually
any employer can be brought under the Board's jurisdiction at the Board's option.
The true test of jurisdiction is whether or not, in the
absence of action by the National Board, the "unfair
labor practices" under consideration are sufficiently
likely, under the circumstances of the case, to result in
a stoppage of operations of these petitioners, so as to
establish a clear need and justification for the action of
the National Board in taking jurisdiction of the petitioners with respect to those alleged practices, in order to
protect the free flow of commerce.
The Board's position ignores altogether the absence of
evidence and findings that its own action is necessary in
order to prevent "industrial strife" and "stoppage of
. . . operations," etc. There are no findings, nor evidence, here that any possible hazard of industrial strife

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Petitioners.

305 U. S.

which might result in stoppage of operations would not
be adequately and effectively dealt with by the State
Board. Indeed, we challenge anyone to read this record
open-mindedly and escape the conclusion that the intervention of the National Board not only was wholly unnecessary for preventing industrial strife and averting
any stoppage of operations, but also that the intervention
and action of the National Board, its abrogation of contracts providing for arbitration, etc., tended rather to
foment strife and to interject a danger of stoppage where
no such danger existed before.
The "findings" by the Congress in § 1 of the Act were
not made in the light of, or with any consideration for,
a case like the present one, which involves an all-inclusive
State Labor Relations Act lawfully applicable to the employer and protective of the continuity of the petitioners' operations from the consequence of unfair labor
practices in every respect as adequately and completely
as could be under the National Act. No State Labor
Relations Act had been enacted when the National Act
became law. This Court warned, in the Jones & Laughlin case (page 30) against "superimposing" on the provisions of the Act "inferences from general legislative
declarations of an ambiguous character," contained in
§ 1 of the Act.
It was a purpose of the Congress in enacting the
National Act, to exemplify to the States a pattern of
desirable state labor relations legislation which could be
copied by them to govern the ever-expanding size and
complexity of present-day intra-state industrial relations.
Indeed, it is a matter of public record that the National
Government urged just such exemplary action by the
several States, in connection with the enactment of the
National Act.
The state Act had become effective long before the
Board's findings, decision and order. The availability of

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

209

Argument for Petitioners.

the state forum was known to the Board at the time its
hearings started; and the question of the necessity and
justification for the National Board's action, notwithstanding the effect of the state Act, became vital long
before the Board had taken any important final action.
II. The Board denied to petitioners the full and fair
hearing and impartial determination which are prerequisites of judicial enforcement of its order.
Taken together and given cumulative effect, or even if
each stands alone, the following incidents should be held
to constitute pro tanto a withholding of due process of
law:
(1) The arbitrary refusal and failure of the Board to
give petitioners an opportunity to be heard directly by
the Board itself, which rendered the Board's order ultra
vires. § 10 (b) of the Act. National Labor Relations
Board v. Hopwood Retinning Co., 98 F. 2d 97, 101; Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Northern Pacific.Ry. Co., 216
U. S. 538.
(2) The Board's ex parte directions that the Trial Examiner deny to the petitioners an opportunity to present
their case, even to the extent of refusing to hear witnesses
present in the hearing-room, was both a denial of due
process of law and a non-compliance with jurisdictional
prerequisites under § 10 (b) of the Act.
(3) A denial of adequate and fair hearing was inherent
in the "transfer" of the case away from the Trial Examiner without findings and in the withholding of an opportunity to the petitioners to be heard before the Board
which made the findings without hearing the evidence.
National Labor Relations Board v. Mackay Radio & Tel.
Co., 304 U. S. 333, 350, distinguished.
(4) The Board's course of action in repeatedly amending its complaint in substantial respects, down to the last
day of the hearings, and in failing to give notice or information of such amendments to the Brotherhood, and
105537*-39-14

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for the Board.

305 U. S.

in refusing to give to the petitioners an adequate opportunity to meet and deal with the changed situations produced by such unexpected amendments, should be taken
into account, in conjunction with the other facts as to the
manner of hearing and determining this case.
(5) Without notice to the petitioners or the Brotherhood and without ever stating an issue as to such contracts, either in the complaint as first served or as from
time to time amended or on the hearings, the Board
invalidated the petitioners' collective bargaining contracts
with the Brotherhood and the 30,000 employees who were
members of the Brotherhood. Morgan v. United States,
304 U. S. 1; Natzonal Labor Relations Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261; Shields v. Barrow,
17 How. 129, 139.
(6) Remote hearsay and mere rumor were permitted
to dominate the testimony, to an extent repugnant to
due process of law. St. Joseph Stock Yards Co. v. United
States, 298 U. S. 38, 73; Morgan v. United States, 298
U. S. 468, 480.
III. The Board's findings disregarded the substantial
evidence, and the court below adopted an inadequate
standard of review of the Board's findings, thereby sustaining findings not supported by substantial evidence.
Washington Coach Co. v. National Labor Relations
Board, 301 U. S. 142, 143; Pennsylvania Railroad Co.
v. Chamberlain,288 U. S. 333, 339-343; National Labor
Relations Board v. Thompson Products, 97 F. 2d 13, 15;
Appalachian Electric Power Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 93 F. 2d 985, 989.
Mr. Charles Fahy, with whom Solicitor General Jackson, and Messrs. Robert L. Stern, Charles A. Horsky,
Robert B. Watts, and Laurence A. Knapp were on the
brief, for the National Labor Relations Board.
The test of permissible application of the National
Labor Relations Act to an industrial enterprise is

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Argument for the Board.

whether "stoppage of . . operations by industrial
strife" in that enterprise would result in substantial interruption to or interference with the free flow of interstate
commerce. National Labor Relations Board v. Jones &
Laughlin Steel Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 41. Petitioners' operations are such that their cessation by reason of industrial strife would block interstate transportation to and
from New York City on several main interstate railroads;
other facilities of transportation in the area, such as automobiles, trucks and buses, as well as ferries and other
transportation by water, would be seriously hampered;
communications by telegraph, telephone and radio would
be seriously affected; and many other enterprises, with
large and important interstate operations, would be
forced to shut down.
In addition, stoppage of petitioners' operations would
interrupt a substantial flow of materials and supplies into
the State. Petitioners are themselves engaged in interstate commerce by reason of their purchase in other
States of large quantities of coal and oil.
Petitioners' argument that the Act may not constitutionally be applied to them, based upon the lack of a
finding that there exists a necessity for Congressional
regulation in the present case, is directly contrary to the
findings and intention of Congress under the present Act
and to the decisions of this Court. Santa Cruz Fruit
Packing Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 303 U. S.
453.
Paragraphs 1 (f) and (g) of the order of the Board,
which require petitioners to cease and desist from giving
effect to their contracts with the Brotherhood and from
recognizing it as the exclusive bargaining representative
of its employees, are in all respects valid and proper
under the Fifth Amendment.
Petitioners' contention that they were not reasonably
apprised that the validity of the contracts was in issue in
the proceedings can not be sustained by the record.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Petitioners.

305 U. S.

Even assuming that petitioners were not in fact adequately informed prior to the entry of the Board's order
that the validity of the contracts was in issue, nevertheless they are not prejudiced. They might have applied
to the Board for a rehearing, or they might have applied
to the court below pursuant to subsections (e) and (f)
of § 10 of the Act for leave to adduce additional evidence
on the contract issue. They did neither.
Petitioners have no valid ground of complaint based
upon the refusal of the Board to hear the proffered testimony of two witnesses on July 6, 1937.
The record shows clearly that petitioners did not
request an oral argument, and had no reason to expect
one in the absence of a request. Moreover, the Fifth
Amendment is fully complied with since petitioners had
previously filed a lengthy brief. Morgan v. United States,
298 U. S. 468, 481.
Petitioners' contention that the evidence does not support the findings is without merit. Nor does the record
support petitioners' contention that the findings were
based on hearsay evidence. There was direct testimony
on each issue. In any event, hearsay evidence was clearly
proper. Spiller v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 253
U. S. 117.
Mr. Isaac Lobe Straus, with whom Mr. Claude A. Hope
was on the brief, for petitioners in No. 25.
Petitioners were indispensable parties to the proceedings before the Trial Examiner and the Board, and were
entitled to legal notice thereof, in view of the invalidation of their contracts by the Board's final order. National Labor Relations Board v. PennsylvaniaGreyhound
Lines, 303 U. S. 261, distinguished. See General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore R. Co., 260 U. S. 261, 285-286.
All persons having a substantial interest of property or
liberty in the subject matter or object of a proceeding are

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Argument for Petitioners.

indispensable parties to it. Mallow v. Hinde, 12 Wheat.
193; Barney v. Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280; Russell v. Clark,
7 Cranch 69; Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 130; Gregory v.
Stetson, 133 U. S. 579; Swan Land & Cattle Co. v. Frank,
148 U. S. 603; RailroadCo. v. Orr, 18 Wall. 471; Ribon v.
RailroadCompanies, 16 Wall. 446; Minnesotav. Northern
Securities Co., 184 U. S. 199, 235; Garzat v. DeRubio,
209 U. S. 283; Lee v. Lehigh Valley Co., 267 U. S. 542;
Commonwealth Trust Co. v. Smith, 266 U. S. 152; NilesBement-Pond Co. v. Iron Moulders Union, 254 U. S. 77;
Employers Reinsurance Corp. v. Bryant, 299 U. S. 374,
381.
The "Intervention" referred to in § 10 (b) of the Act,
and Article II, § 19, of the Rules of the Board is so absolutely discretionary and so partial and limited, that, where
substantive property and personal rights are involved, it
seriously fails to satisfy constitutional requirements.
Moreover, in the proceeding herein involved, three days
of the hearing had elapsed and fundamental testimony
had been introduced before the Trial Examiner prior to
the amendment to the complaint of June 14, affecting
the petitioners within the Act.
Neither the attempted service upon petitioners of the
notice of May 12, nor that of the amended notice of May
25, 1937, was a valid service of notice or process, or compliance with § 11 (4) of the Act, or Article V of the
Board's Rules, or with the constitutional requirements of
due process of law. And after the amendments of June 14,
1937, by which amendments these petitioners were, for
the first time, made the subject of charges in the complaint
within the National Labor Relations Act, there was absolutely no pretense of an attempt in any form to give
notice to these petitioners, or any of them, of any charge
in the complaint against them.
Petitioners were denied due process of law by § 1 (f)
and (g) of the Board's order, abrogating their contracts

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Petitioners.

305 U. S.

and directing non-recognition of the Brotherhood as representatives of the employees, when neither the validity
of the contracts, nor representation, was in issue, or embraced, in the charge, the complaint or amended complaint, or raised at the hearings or at any other time
before the Board's final order, and the Board itself dismissed so much of the complaint as involved company
domination or support contrary to § 8 (2) of the Act.
Morgan v. United States, 304 U. S. 1; United States v.
Seminole Nation, 299 U. S. 417, 421-422.
The Act does not authorize the Board to exercise jurisdiction over the Consolidated Edison and its subsidiaries
and their labor relations with their employees, or over
the subject matter of the complaint or amended complaint, including petitioners' contracts which the order
destroyed, because said companies and local unions are
not engaged in, and their labor relations do not burden,
"commerce" as defined in the National Labor Relations
Act, the business of the companies and their employees
being wholly within New York, by the statutes of which
they are subject to full and complete regulation. The
Act, as herein applied by the Board, conflicts with the
Fifth and Tenth Amendments to the Federal Constitution. Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238-341;
Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495550; National Labor RelationsBoard v. Jones & Laughlin
Steel Corp., 301 U. S. 1; National Labor Relations Board,
v. Fruehauf Trailer Co., 301 U. S. 49, 53; National Labor
Relations Board v. Friedman-HarryMarks Clothing Co.,
301 U. S. 58, 72; Santa Cruz Fruit Packing Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 303 U. S. 453.
The decision in the Santa Cruz Fruit Packing Co. case,
decided by this Court March 28, 1938, two weeks after
the decision and a week after the judgment rendered
herein by the Circuit Court of Appeals, does not dispose
of the question of jurisdiction as herein presented, inas-

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Argument for Petitioners.

much as in that case about 37 per cent. of the total output of the employer was shipped in interstate or foreign
commerce, wherein "there was a constant stream of loading and shippir.g of products." Moreover an actual
strike had been in progress, with a cessation of the flow
of extensive commerce. Furthermore there was no question at all raised as to the adequacy of state regulation,
there being no state regulation of the business of the
employer or of its labor relations with its employees.
Whenever federal power is exerted within what would
otherwise be the domain of state power, the justification
of the exercise of the federal power must clearly appear,
Floridav. United States, 282 U. S. 194, 211; and federal
power should be relinquished to state power, where its
exercise would involve control of, or interference with,
the internal affairs of a domestic corporation of the State.
Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294 U. S. 176, 185; Hopkins
Savings Assn. v. Cleary, 296 U. S. 315.
The order of the Board annulling petitioners' contracts
exceeded the power of the Board, and the proceedings
leading to the order did not comply with the Act or the
Board's Rules, and constituted a denial of a fair and full
hearing and of due process of law, in contravention of the
Fifth Amendment.
Many substantial parts of the testimony upon which
the findings and decision of the Board purport to rest,
and its course of proceeding to its final order, violated
basic requirements of evidence and procedure essential to
due process of law.
Mr. Joseph A. Padway for petitioners in No. 25.
The Board lacked jurisdiction to make an order abrogating the contracts, because of its failure to join the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or its
affiliates as formal parties, or to notify them of the commencement of proceedings in which action against their
contracts was contemplated; and the entry of such order

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Petitioners.

305 U. S.

in the absence of the IErotherhood was a denial of due
process of law.
The Brotherhood locals are indispensable parties. The
necessity for their joinder is well established at common
law and equity.
The failure to join the Brotherhood is a jurisdictional
defect.
The Act does not and can not dispense with the necessity of joining the Brotherhood.
The Brotherhood has not waived its rights by filing a
petition for review.
The Brotherhood has never been properly served with
notices of the proceedings.
In any event, the Brotherhood was denied a hearing
because the complaint did not apprise it of any charge
involving abrogation of the contracts, and no opportunity
was given it to defend its interests.
The Act does not authorize the Board to issue orders
invalidating or adversely affecting contracts entered into
between the employer and a bona fide labor organization
not claiming the right to exclusive representation of all
employees where there is no showing that a substantial
number of its members have been influenced by the employer into joining the organization, and where the employer has been ordered to take other action fully protecting rights and privileges of its employees under the
Act.
The Board had no jurisdiction in this case, because the
respondent is not engaged in "interstate commerce" within the purview of the Act. The American Federation of
Labor has fostered and is fostering state labor relations
Acts, and is vitally interested in protecting the jurisdiction of the state boards against encroachment of the
National Board.
The Act does not authorize the Board to condemn expressions of sympathy by an employer or its supervisory

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of the Court.

employees with aims and principles of national labor organization affiliates, if there is no actual compulsion to
join, or any discriminatory acts threatened or taken.
Mr. Louis B. Boudin for the United Electrical and Radio Workers of America, intervening respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The United Electrical and Radio Workers of America,
affiliated with the Committee for Industrial Organization,
filed a charge, on May 5, 1937, with the National Labor
Relations Board that the Consolidated Edison Company
of New York and its affiliated companies were interfering
with the right of their employees to form, join or assist
labor organizations of their own choosing and were contributing financial and other support, in the manner described, to the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers, an affiliate of the American Federation of Labor.
The Board issued its complaint and the employing companies, appearing specially, challenged its jurisdiction. On
the denial of their request that this question be determined initially, the companies filed answers reserving
their jurisdictional objections. After the taking of evidence before a trial examiner, the proceeding was transferred to the Board, which on November 10, 1937, made
its findings and order.
The order directed the companies to desist from labor
practices found to be unfair and in violation of § 8 (1)
and (3) of the National Labor Relations Act,1 directed
reinstatement of six discharged employees with back pay,
and required the posting of notices to the effect that the
companies would cease the described practices and that
their employees were free to join or assist any labor or'49 Stat. 449; 29 U. S. C. §§ 158 (1) (3).

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

ganization for the purpose of collective bargaining and
would not be subject to discharge or to any discrimination by reason of their choice. 4 N. L. R. B. 71.
It appeared that between May 28, 1937, and June 16,
1937, the companies had entered into agreements with the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and its
local unions, providing for the recognition of the Brotherhood as the collective bargaining agency for those em,
ployees who were its members, and containing variou,
stipulations as to hours, working conditions, wages, etc.,
and for arbitration in the event of disputes. The Board
found that these contracts were executed under such circumstances that they were invalid and required the companies to desist from giving them effect. Id. At the same
time the Board decided that the companies had not engaged in unfair labor practices within the meaning of
§ 8 (2) of the Act.' That clause makes it an unfair labor
practice to "dominate or interfere with the formation or
administration of any labor organization or contribute financial or other support to it." Accordingly the order
dismissed the complaint, so far as it alleged a violation
of § 8 (2), without prejudice. Id.
The companies petitioned the Circuit Court of Appeals
to set aside the order and a petition for the same purpose
was presented by the Brotherhood and its locals. These
labor organizations had not been parties to the proceeding
before the Board but intervened in the Court of Appeals
as parties aggrieved by the invalidation of their contracts.
The Board in turn asked the court to enforce the order.
The United Electrical and Radio Workers of America appeared in support of the Board. The court granted the
Board's petition. 95 F. 2d 390. We issued writs of
certiorari upon applications of the companies (No. 19)
and of the Brotherhood and its locals (No. 25).
"29 U. S. C. 158 (2).

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of the Court.

The questions presented relate (1) to the jurisdiction of
the Board; (2) to the fairness of the hearing; (3) to the
sufficiency of the evidence to sustain the findings of the
Board with respect to coercive practices, discrimination
and the discharge of employees; and (4) to the invalidation of the contracts with the Brotherhood and its locals.
The pertinent facts will be considered in connection
with our discussion of these questions.
First. The jurisdiction of the Board.-That is, was the
proceeding within the scope of its authority validly conferred? The petitioning companies constitute an integrated system. With the exception of one company
which maintains underground ducts for electrical conductors in New York City, they are all public utilities
engaged in supplying electric energy, gas and steam (and
certain by-products) within that City and adjacent Westchester County. The enterprise is one of great magnitude. The companies serve over 3,500,000 electric and
gas customers,-a large majority using the service for
residential and domestic purposes. In 1936 the companies supplied about 97.5 per cent. of the total electric
energy sold in the City of New York and about one
hundred per cent. of that sold in Westchester County.
They do not sell for resale without the State. They have
about 42,000 employees, their total payrolls in 1936, with
retirement annuities and separation allowances, amounting to nearly $82,000,000.
Petitioners urge that these predominant intrastate activities, carried on under the plenary control of the State
of New York in the exercise of its police power, are not
subject to federal authority. It does not follow, however, because these operations of the utilities are of vast
concern to the people of the City and State of New York,
that they do not also involve the interests of interstate
and foreign commerce in such a degree that the Federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

Government was entitled to intervene for their protection. For example, the governance of the intrastate rates
of a railroad company may be of great importance to
the State and an appropriate object of the exertion of its
power, but the Federal Government may still intervene
to protect interstate commerce from injury caused by
intrastate operations and to that end may override intrastate rates and supply a dominant federal rule. The
Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342; Wisconsin Railroad
Comm'n v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; New
York v. United States, 257 U. S. 591. See, also, National
Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp.,
301 U. S. 1, 37-41.
In the present instance we may lay on one side, as
did the Circuit Court of Appeals, the mere purchases by
the utilities of the supplies of oil, coal, etc., although very
large, which come from without the State and are consumed in the generation and distribution of electric
energy and gas. Apart from those purchases, there is
undisputed and impressive evidence of the dependence
of interstate and foreign commerce upon the continuity
of the service of the petitioning companies. They supply
electric energy to the New York Central Railroad Company, the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad
Company, and the Hudson and Manhattan Railroad
Company (operating a tunnel service to New Jersey)
for the lighting and operation of passenger and freight
terminals, and for the movement of interstate trains.
They supply the Port of New York Authority with electric energy for the operation of its terminal and the
Holland Tunnel. They supply a majority of the piers
of transatlantic and coastwise steamship companies along
the North and East Rivers, within the City of New York,
for lighting, freight handling and related uses. They
serve the Western Union Telegraph Company, the Postal
Telegraph Company, and the New York Telephone Com-

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of the Court.

pany with power for transmitting and receiving messages,
local and interstate. They supply electric energy for the
transatlantic radio service of the Radio Corporation of
America. They provide electric energy for the Floyd
Bennett Air Field in Brooklyn for various purposes, including field illumination, a radio beam and obstruction
lighting. Under contracts with the Federal Government
they supply electric energy for six lighthouses and eight
beacon or harbor lights; also light, heat and power for
the general post office and branch post offices, the United
States Barge Office, the Customs House, appraisers' warehouse and various federal office buildings.
It cannot be doubted that these activities, while conducted within the State, are matters of federal concern.
In their totality they rise to such a degree of importance
that the fact that they involve but a small part of the
entire service rendered by the utilities in their extensive
business is immaterial in the consideration of the existence of the federal protective power. The effect upon
interstate and foreign commerce of an interruption
through industrial strife of the service of the petitioning
companies was vividly described by the Circuit Court of
Appeals in these words: "Instantly, the terminals and
trains of three great interstate railroads would cease to
operate; interstate communication by telegraph, telephone, and radio would stop; lights maintained as aids to
navigation would go out; and the business of interstate
ferries and of foreign steamships, whose docks are lighted
and operated by electric energy, would be greatly impeded. Such effects we cannot regard as indirect and
remote." 95 F. 2d 390, 394.
If industrial strife due to unfair labor practices actually
brought about such a catastrophe, we suppose that no one
would question the authority of the Federal Government
to intervene in order to facilitate the settlement of the dispute and the resumption of the essential service to inter-

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

state and foreign commerce. But it cannot be maintained
that the exertion of federal power must await the disruption of that commerce. Congress was entitled to provide reasonable preventive measures and that was the
object of the National Labor Relations Act.
Congress did not attempt to deal with particular instances. It created for that purpose the National Labor
Relations Board. In conferring authority upon that
Board, Congress had regard to the limitations of the constitutional grant of federal power. Thus, the "commerce"
contemplated by the Act (aside from that within a Territory or the District of Columbia) is interstate and foreign
commerce. The unfair labor practices which the Act purports to reach are those affecting that commerce. § 10 (a).'
In determining the constitutional bounds of the authority
conferred, we have applied the well-settled principle that
it is the effect upon interstate or foreign commerce, not the
source of the injury, which is the criterion. It is not
necessary to repeat what we said upon*this point in the
review of our decisions in the case of National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., supra. And
whether or not particular action in the conduct of intrastate enterprises does affect that commerce in such a close
and intimate fashion as to be subject to federal control,
is left to be determined as individual cases arise. Id., see,
also, Santa Cruz Packing Co. v. National Labor Relations
Board, 303 U. S. 453, 466, 467.
Petitioners urge that the legislature of New York has
enacted comprehensive and adequate measures to protect
against the interruption of petitioners' services through
labor disputes. Not only has the State long had legislation relating to the operations of public utility coinpanies (Public Service Law) but the legislature has
recently enacted the New York State Labor Relations
'29 U. S. C. 160 (a).

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of the Court.

Act (Laws of 1937, Chapter 443, effective July 1, 1937;
Article 20 of the Labor Law) which provides a complete
supervision of labor relations for employers in intrastate
enterprises similar to that set up by the National Labor
Relations Act with respect to interstate or foreign commerce. The state act, with added details, follows closely
the national act. The state act provides for collective
bargaining, including the conduct of elections to determine the representation of employees, and empowers the
state Labor Relations Board to prevent unfair labor practices. In seeking to avoid a clash with federal authority,
the state act is made inapplicable "to the employees of any
employer who concedes to and agrees with the board that
such employees are subject to and protected by the provisions of the national labor relations act or the federal
railway labor act." ' It is manifest that the enactment
of this state law could not override the constitutional
authority of the Federal Government. The State could
not add to or detract from that authority. But it is
also true that where the employers are not themselves
engaged in interstate or foreign commerce, and the authority of the National Labor Relations Board is invoked
to protect that commerce from interference or injury arising from the employers' intrastate activities, the question
whether the alleged unfair labor practices do actually
threaten interstate or foreign commerce in a substantial
manner is necessarily presented. And in determining
that factual question regard should be had to all the
existing circumstances, including the bearing and effect
of any protective action to the same end already taken
under state authority. The justification for the exercise
of federal power should clearly appear. Floridav. United
States, 282 U. S. 194, 211, 212. But the question in such
a case would relate not to the existence of the federal
'New York State Labor Relations Act, § 715.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

power but to the propriety of its exercise on a given state
of facts.
In the instant case, not only was this proceeding instituted before the New York Labor Relations Act became
effective but, so far as appears, no proceedings have been
taken under it in relation to the unfair labor practices
here alleged. For the present purpose, it is sufficient
to say that there has been no exertion of state authority
which can be taken to remove the need for the exertion
of federal authority to protect interstate and foreign
commerce. The exercise of the federal power to protect
interstate and foreign commerce from injury does not depend upon a clash with state action and need not await
the exercise of state authority.
We conclude that the Board had authority to entertain
this proceeding against the petitioning companies.
Second. The fairness of the hearing,-proceduraldue
process.-Apart from the action of the Board with respect
to the Brotherhood contracts, which we shall consider
separately, the contentions under this head relate (1) to
amendments of the complaint, (2) to the refusal to hear
certain witnesses, and (3) to the transfer of the proceeding to the Board and its determination without an intermediate report or opportunity for hearing upon proposed
findings.
The original complaint related to the discharge of five
employees and alleged unfair labor practices in the employment of industrial spies and undercover operatives, in
allowing employees to solicit membership in the Brotherhood during working hours and on the property of the
companies, in compensating such employees while so engaged and in furnishing them office space and financial
assistance while refusing such privileges to the United,
and generally in coercion of the employees to join the

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of the Court.

Brotherhood. The amendments were made from time to
time in the course of the hearing. In particular, they
added another employee to those alleged to have been
wrongfully discharged and supplied an omitted allegation that the other unfair labor practices affected commerce. At the close of the evidence the trial examiner
granted a motion to conform the pleadings to the proof
on the statement of the attorney for the Board that no
important change was intended and that the amendment
was sought merely to make more definite and certain
what appeared in the complaint. These were discretionary rulings which afford no ground for challenging the
validity of the hearing.
A more serious question grows out of the refusal to receive the testimony of certain witnesses. The taking of
evidence began on June 3, 1937, and was continued from
time to time until June 23d when the attorney for the
Board unexpectedly announced that its case would probably be closed on the following day. At that time the
Board completed its proof, with the reservation of one
matter, and at the request of the companies' counsel the
hearing was adjourned until July 6th in order that Mr.
Carlisle, the chairman of the board of trustees of the Consolidated Edison Company, and Mr. Dean, the vice president of one of its affiliates, who were then unavailable,
could testify. In response to the examiner's inquiry, the
companies' counsel stated that the direct examination of
all witnesses on their behalf would not occupy more than
a day. On July 6th the testimony of Mr. Carlisle and Mr.
Dean was taken and the companies also offered the testimony of two other witnesses (then present in the hearing room) in relation to the discharge.. of the employee
with respect to whom the complaint had been amended
as above stated. The examiner refused to receive this
testimony following a ruling of the Board (made in the
105537T*-39-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

course of correspondence with the companies' counsel
during the adjournment) to the effect that no other testimony than that of Mr. Carlisle and Mr. Dean would be
received on the adjourned day. An offer of proof was
made which showed the testimony to be highly important
with respect to the reasons for the discharge. It was brief
and could have been received at once without any undue
delay in the closing of the hearing.
We agree with the Court of Appeals that the refusal
to receive the testimony was unreasonable and arbitrary.
Assuming, as the Board contends, that it had a discretionary control over the conduct of the proceeding, we
cannot but regard this action as an abuse of discretion.
But the statute did not leave the petitioners without remedy. The court below pointed to that remedy, that is,
to apply to the Court of Appeals for leave to adduce the
additional evidence; on such an application and a showing of reasonable grounds the court could have ordered it to be taken. § 10 (e) (f) . Petitioners did not
avail themselves of this appropriate procedure.
Shortly after the evidence was closed, the counsel for
the petitioning companies filed a brief with the trial examiner. Several weeks later, on September 29th, the proceeding was transferred to the Board. The examiner
made no tentative report or findings and there was no
opportunity for a hearing before the Board itself. It
must be assumed, however, that the brief for the companies was transmitted to the Board and was considered
by it in making its decision. The Board contends that
the companies submitted their brief without asking for
an oral argument, as contemplated by the Board's rule
(Rule 29), or for an intermediate report, and hence that
they are not in a position to complain on either score.
529 U. S. C. 160(c)(f).

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of the Court.

The Board also insists that after the transfer of the proceeding, it was within the discretion of the Board to adopt
any one of the courses of procedure enumerated in its rule
(Rule 38)' of which petitioners were informed by the
'Rules 37 and 38 are as follows:
"Sec. 37. Whenever the Board deems it necessary in order to
effectuate the purposes of the Act, it may permit a charge to be
filed with it, in Washington, D. C., or may, at any time after a charge
has been fied with a Regional Director pursuant to Section 2 of this
Article, order that such charge, and any proceeding which may have
been instituted in respect thereto"(a) be transferred to and continued before it, for the purpose of consolidation with any proceeding which may have been
instituted by the Board, or for any other purpose; or
"(b) be consolidated for the purpose of hearing, or for any
other purpose, with any other proceeding which may have been
instituted in the same region; or
"(c) be transferred to and continued in any other Region, for
the purpose of consolidation with any proceeding which may
have been instituted in or transferred to such other Region, or
for any other purpose.
"The provisions of Sections 3 to 31, inclusive, of this Article shall,
in so far as applicable, apply to proceedings before the Board pursuant to this Section, and the powers granted to Regional Directors in
such provisions shall, for the purpose of this Section, be reserved, to
and exercised by the Board. After the transfer of any charge and
any proceeding which may have been instituted in respect thereto
from one Region to another pursuant to this Section, the provisions
of Sections 3 to 36, inclusive, of this Article, shall apply to such
charge and such proceeding as if the charge had originally been filed
in the Region to which the transfer is made.
"Sec. 38. After a hearing for the purpose of taking evidence upon
the complaint in any proceeding over which the Board has assumed
jurisdiction in accordance with Section 37 of this Article, the Board
may"(a) direct that the Trial Examiner prepare an Intermediate
Report, in which case the provisions of Sections 32 to 36, inclusive, of this Article shall in so far as applicable govern subsequent procedure, and the powers granted to Regional Directors in

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

service of a copy of the Board's rules at the beginning
of the proceeding. Petitioners say that at the very outset they had asked, on their special appearance, for a
hearing before the Board upon the question of its jurisdiction and that all proceedings be transferred to the
Board, and that the rules induced the belief that after
the transfer to the Board at the close of the evidence
there would be further proceedings at which they would
be heard. But we cannot say that the rules justified that
expectation or dispensed with the necessity, after the
transfer, of a suitable request by the petitioners for such
additional hearing as they desired. It does not appear
that such request was made.
It cannot be said that the Board did not consider the
evidence or the petitioners' brief or failed to make its own
findings in the light of that evidence and argument. It
would have been better practice for the Board to have directed the examiner to make a tentative report with an
opportunity for exceptions and argument thereon. But,
aside from the question of the Brotherhood contracts, we
find no basis for concluding that the issues and contentions were not clearly defined and that the petitioning
companies were not fully advised of them. National
Labor Relations Board v. Mackay Radio & Telegraph Co.,
304 U. S. 333, 350, 351. The points raised as to the lack
such provisions shall for the purpose of this Section be reserved
to and exercised by the Board; or
"(b) decide the matter foithwith upon the record, or after
the filing of briefs or oral argument; or
"(c) reopen the record and receive further evidence, or require
the taking of further evidence before a member of the Board,
or other agent or agency; or
"(d) make other disposition of the case.
"The Board shall notify the parties of the time and place of any
such submission of briefs, oral argument, or taking of further
evidence."

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of the Court.

of procedural due process in this relation cannot be sustained.
Third. The sufficiency of the evidence to sustain the
findings of the Board with respect to coercive practices,
discrimination and discharge of employees.-The companies contend that the Court of Appeals misconceived its
power to review the findings and, instead of searching
the record to see if they were sustained by "substantial"
evidence, merely considered whether the record was
"wholly barren of evidence" to support them. We agree
that the statute, in providing that "the findings of the
Board as to the facts, if supported by evidence, shall be
conclusive," means supported by substantial evidence.
Washington, V. & M. Coach Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 301 U. S. 142, 147. Substantial evidence
is more than a mere scintilla. It means such relevant
evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate
to support a conclusion. AppalachianElectric Power Co.
v. National Labor Relations Board, 93 F. 2d 985, 989;
National Labor Relations Board v. Thompson Products,
97 F. 2d 13, 15; Ballston-Stillwater Co. v. National Labor
Relations Board, 98 F. 2d 758, 760. We do not think
that the Court of Appeals intended to apply a different
test. In saying that the record was not "wholly barren
of evidence" to sustain the finding of discrimination, we
think that the court referred to substantial evidence.
Ballston-Stillwater Co. v. National Labor Relations
Board, supra.
The companies urge that the Board received "remote
hearsay" and "mere rumor." The statute provides that
"the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law and
equity shall not be controlling."
The obvious purpose
of this and similar provisions is to free administrative
'§ 10(b); 29 U. S. C. 160(b).

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

boards from the compulsion of technical rules so that the
mere admission of matter which would be deemed incompetent in judicial proceedings would not invalidate
the administrative order. Interstate Commerce Comm'n
v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25, 44; Interstate Commerce Comm'n
v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 93; United
States v. Abilene & Southern Ry. Co., 265 U. S. 274, 288;
Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420,
442. But this assurance of a desirable flexibility in administrative procedure does not go so far a. to justify
orders without a basis in evidence having rational probative force. Mere uncorroborated hearsay or rumor does
not constitute substantial evidence.
Applying these principles, we are unable to conclude
that the Board's findings in relation to the matters now
under consideration did not have the requisite foundation. With respect to industrial espionage, the companies
say that the employment of "outside investigating agencies" of any sort had been voluntarily discontinued prior
to November, 1936, but the Board rightly urges that it
was entitled to bar its resumption. Compare Federal
Trade Comm'n v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., 304 U. S.
257, 260. In relation to the other charges of unfair labor
practices, the companies point to the statement of Mr.
Carlisle at a large meeting of the employees in April,
1937, when the recognition of the Brotherhood was under
discussion, that the employees were absolutely free to join
any labor organization,-that they could do as they
pleased. Despite this statement and assuming, as counsel for the companies urges, that where two independent
labor organizations seek recognition, it cannot be said to
be an unfair labor practice for the employer merely to
express preference of one organization over the other, by
reason of the former's announced policies, in the absence
of any attempts at intimidation or coercion, we think that
there was still substantial evidence that such attempts
were made in this case.

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

231

Opinion of the Court.

It would serve no useful purpose to lengthen this opinion by detailing the testimony. We are satisfied that the
provisions of the order requiring the companies to desist
from the discriminating and coercive practices described
in subdivisions (a) to (e) inclusive and in subdivision
(h) of paragraph one of its order,' and to reinstate the
six employees mentioned with back pay, and to post
notices assuring freedom from discrimination and coercion as provided in paragraph two of the order, rested
upon findings sustained by the evidence and that the decree of the Court of Appeals enforcing the order in these
respects should be affirmed.
Fourth. The Brotherhood contracts.-The findings of
the Board that the contracts with the Brotherhood and its
locals were invalid, and the Board's order requiring the
companies to desist from giving effect to these contracts,
present questions of major importance. We approach
them in the light of three cardinal considerations. One
is that the Brotherhood and its locals are labor organi' These provisions of the order in substance required the companies
to desist from discouraging membership in the United or encouraging
membership in the Brotherhood, or any other labor organization of
their employees, by discharges, or threats of discharge, or refusal of
reinstatement, because of membership or activity in connection with
any such labor organization; from permitting representatives of the
Brotherhood to engage.in activities in its behalf during working hours
or on the employers' property unless similar privileges were granted
to the United and all other labor organizations; from permitting
employees who were officials of the Employees' Representation Plans
to use the employers' time, property and money in behalf of the
Brotherhood or any other labor organization; from employing detectives to investigate the activities of their employees in behalf of the
United or other labor organizations, or employing for such purpose
any other sort of espionage; and from "in any other manner interfering with, restraining, or coercing its employees in the exercise of
the right to self-organization, to form, join or assist labor organizations" or to bargain collectively or to engage in concerted activities
for that purpose or other mutual aid or protection.

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U.S.

zations independently established as affiliates of the
American Federation of Labor and are not under the control of the employing companies. So far as there was
any charge, under § 8 (2) of the Act, that the employing
companies had dominated or interfered with the formation or administration of any labor organization or had
contributed financial or other support to it, the charge
was dismissed. Another consideration is that the contracts recognize the right of employees to bargain collectively; they recognize the Brotherhood as the collective
bargaining agency for the employees who belong to it,
and the Brotherhood agrees for itself and its members not
to intimidate or coerce employees into membership in
the Brotherhood and not to solicit membership on the
time or property of the employers. The third consideration is that the contracts contain important provisions
with regard to hours, working conditions, wages, sickness,
disability, etc., and also provide against strikes or lockouts and for the adjustment and arbitration of labor disputes, thus constituting insurance against the disruption
of the service of the companies to interstate or foreign
commerce through an outbreak of industrial strife. It
is not contended that these provisions are unreasonable
or oppressive but on the contrary it was virtually conceded at the bar that they are fair to both the employers
and employees. It also appears from the evidence, which
was received without objection, that the Brotherhood and
its locals comprised over 30,000, or 80 per cent of the
companies' employees out of 38,000 eligible for membership.
The Brotherhood and its locals contend that they were
indispensable parties and that in the absence of legal
notice to them or their appearance, the Board had no
authority to invalidate the contracts. The Board contests this position, invoking our decision in National Labor
Relations Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, 303

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 261. That case, however; is not apposite as there
no question of contract between employer and employee
was involved. The Board had found upon evidence that
the employer had created and fostered the labor organization in question and dominated its administration in violation of § 8(2). The statement that the "Association"
so formed and controlled was not entitled to notice and
hearing was made in that relation. Id., pp. 262, 270, 271.
It has no application to independent labor unions such
as those before us. We think that the Brotherhood and
its locals having valuable and beneficial interests in the
contracts were entitled to notice and hearing before they
could be set aside. Russell v. Clark'sExecutors, 7 Cranch,
69, 96; Mallow v. Hinde, 12 Wheat. 193, 198; Minnesota
v. Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S. 199, 235; Garzot v.
de Rubio, 209 U. S. 283, 297; General Investment Co. v.
Lake Shore & M. S. Co., 260 U. S. 261, 285. The rule,
which was applied in the cases cited to suits in equity,
is not of a technical character but rests upon the plainest principle of justice, equally applicable here. See
Mallow v. Hinde, supra.
The Board urges that the National Labor Relations Act
does not contain any provision requiring these unions to
be made parties; that § 10(b)" authorizes the Board to
serve a complaint only upon persons charged with unfair
labor practices and that only employers can be so charged.
In that view, the question would at once arise whether
the Act could be construed as authorizing the Board to
invalidate the contracts of independent labor union5 not
before it and also as to the validity of the Act if so construed. But the Board contends that the Brotherhood had
notice, referring to the service of a copy of the complaint
and notice of hearing upon a local union of the Brotherhood on May 12, 1937, and of an amended notice of hear929 U. S. C. 160(b).

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

ing on May 25, 1937. Petitioners rejoin that the service
was not upon a local whose rights were affected but upon
one whose members were not employees of the companies'
system. The Board says, however, that the Brotherhood,
and the locals which were involved, had actual notice and
hence were entitled to intervene, § 10 (b), and chose not
to do so. But neither the original complaint-which
antedated the contracts--nor the subsequent amendments
contained any mention of them, and the Brotherhood and
its locals were not put upon notice that the validity of
the contracts was under attack. The Board contends that
the complaint challenged the legality of the companies'
"relations" with the Brotherhood. But what was thus
challenged cannot be regarded as going beyond the particular practices of the employers and the discharges
which the complaint described. In these circumstances
it cannot be said that the unions were under a duty to
intervene before the Board in order to safeguard their
interests.
The Board urges further that the unions have availed
themselves of the opportunity to petition for review of
the Board's order in the Court of Appeals, and that due
process does not require an opportunity to be heard before
judgment, if defenses may be presented upon appeal.
York v. Texas, 137 U. S. 15, 20, 21; American Surety Co.
v. Baldwin, 287 U. S. 156, 168; Moore Ice Cream Co. v.
Rose, 289 U. S. 373, 384. But this rule assumes that the
appellate review does afford opportunity to present all
available defenses, including lack of proper notice, to
justify the judgment or order complained of. Id.
Apart from this question of notice to the unions, both
the companies and the unions contend that upon the
case made before the Board it had no authority to invalidate the contracts. Both insist that that issue was
not actually litigated, and the record supports that contention. The argument to the contrary, that the con-

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of the Court.

tracts were necessarily in issue because of the charge
of unfair labor practices against the companies, is without substance. Not only did the complaint as amended
fail to assail the contracts but it was stated by the attorney for the Board upon the hearing that the complaint
was not directed against the Brotherhood; that "no issue
of representation (was) involved in this proceeding";
and that the Board took the position that the Brotherhood was "a bona fide labor organization" whose legality
was not attacked. But the Board says that on July 6th
(the last of the contracts having been made on June 16th)
the companies amended their answer stating that the
making of the contracts had rendered the proceeding
moot, and that this necessarily put the contracts in issue.
We cannot so regard it. We think that the fair construction of the position thus taken on the last day of
the hearings was entirely consistent with the view that
the validity of the contracts had not been, and was not,
in issue. And the counsel for the companies point to
their brief before the Board, which they produce, as proceeding on the basis that the validity of the contracts had
not been assailed.
Further, the Act gives no express authority to the
Board to invalidate contracts with independent labor
organizations. That authority, if it exists, must rest upon
the provisions of § 10 (c).1° That section authorizes the
Board, when it has found the employer guilty of unfair
labor practices, to require him to desist from such practices "and to take such affirmative action, including reinstatement of employees with or without back pay, as will
effectuate the policies of this Act." We think that this
authority to order affirmative action does not go so far
as to confer a punitive jurisdiction enabling the Board
to inflict upon the employer any penalty it may choose
1 29 U. S. C. 160 (c).

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

because he is engaged in unfair labor practices, even
though the Board be of the opinion that the policies of
the Act might be effectuated by such an order.
The power to command affirmative action is remedial,
not punitive, and is to be exercised in aid of the Board's
authority to restrain violations and as a means of removing or avoiding the consequences of violation where those
consequences are of a kind to thwart the purposes of
the Act. The continued existence of a company union
established by unfair labor practices or of a union dominated by the employer is a consequence of violation of
the Act whose continuance thwarts the purposes of the
Act and renders ineffective any order restraining the unfair practices. Compare National Labor Relations Board
v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, supra. Here, there
is no basis for a finding that the contracts with the
Brotherhood and its locals were a consequence of the
unfair labor practices found by the Board or that these
contracts in themselves thwart any policy of the Act or
that their cancellation would in any way make the order
to cease the specified practices any more effective.
The Act contemplates the making of contracts with
labor organizations. That is the manifest objective in
providing for collective bargaining. Under § 7 "' the employees of the companies are entitled to self-organization,
to join labor organizations and to bargain collectively
through representatives of their own choosing. The 80
per cent. of the employees who were members of the
Brotherhood and its locals, had that right. They had the
right to choose the Brotherhood as their representative
for collective bargaining and to have contracts made as
the result of that bargaining. Nothing that the employers
had done deprived them of that right. Nor did the contracts make the Brotherhood and its locals exclusive repre229 U. S. C. 157.

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of the Court.

sentatives for collective bargaining. On this point the
contracts speak for themselves. They simply constitute
the Brotherhood the collective bargaining agency for those
employees who are its members. The Board by its oeder
did not direct an election to ascertain who should represent the employees for collective bargaining. § 9 (c).12
Upon this record there is nothing to show that the employees' selection as indicated by the Brotherhood contracts has been superseded by any other selection by a
majority of employees of the companies so as to create an
exclusive agency for bargaining under the statute, and in
the absence of such an exclusive agency the employees
represented by the Brotherhood, even if they were a minority, clearly had the right to make their own choice.
Moreover, the fundamental purpose of the Act is to protect interstate and foreign commerce from interruptions
and obstructions caused by industrial strife. This purpose appears to be served by these contracts in an important degree. Representing such a large percentage of the
employees of the companies, and precluding strikes and
providing for the arbitration of disputes, these agreements
are highly protective to interstate and foreign commerce.
They contain no terms which can be said to "affect commerce" in the sense of the Act so as to justify their abrogation by the Board. The disruption of these contracts,
even pending proceedings to ascertain by an election the
wishes of the majority of employees, would remove that
salutary protection during the intervening period.
The Board insists that the contracts are invalid because
made during the pendency of the proceeding. But the
effect of that pendency would appropriately extend to the
practices of the employers to which the complaint was
addressed. See Jones v. Securities & Exchange Comm'n,
298 U. S. 1, 15. It did not reach so far as to suspend
"29 U. S. C. 159 (c).

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

the right of the employees to self-organization or preclude
the Brotherhood as an independent organization chosen
by its members from making fair contracts on their behalf.
Apart from this, the main contention of the Board is
that the contracts were the fruit of the unfair labor practices of the employers; that they were "simply a device
to consummate and perpetuate" the companies' illegal
conduct and constituted its culmination. But, as we have
said, this conclusion is entirely too broad to be sustained.
If the Board intended to make that charge, it should have
amended its complaint accordingly, given notice to the
Brotherhood, and introduced proof to sustain the charge.
Instead it is left as a matter of mere conjecture to what
extent membership in the Brotherhood was induced by
any illegal conduct on the part of the employers. The
Brotherhood was entitled to form its locals and their organization was not assailed. The Brotherhood and its
locals were entitled to solicit members and the employees
were entitled to join. These rights cannot be brushed
aside as immaterial for they are of the very essence of the
rights which the Labor Relations Act was passed to protect and the Board could not ignore or override them in
professing to effectuate the policies of the Act. To say
that of the 30,000 who did join there were not those who
joined voluntarily or that the Brotherhood did not have
members whom it could properly represent in making
these contracts would be to indulge an extravagant and
unwarranted assumption. The employers' practices,
which were complained of, could be stopped without imperiling the interests of those who for all that appears
had exercised freely their right of choice.
We conclude that the Board was without authority to
require the petitioning companies to desist from giving
effect to the Brotherhood contracts, as provided in subdivision (f) of paragraph one of the Board's order.

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of

BUTLER, J.

Subdivision (g) of that paragraph, requiring the com-.
panies to cease recognizing the Brotherhood "as the exclusive representative of their employees" stands on a
different footing. The contracts do not claim for the
Brotherhood exclusive representation of the companies'
employees but only representation of those who are its
members, and the continued operation of the contracts is
necessarily subject to the provision of the law by which
representatives of the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining can be ascertained in case any question of "representation" should arise. § 9.1" We construe
subdivision (g) as having no more effect than to provide
that there shall be no interference with an exclusive
bargaining agency if one other than the Brotherhood
should be established in accordance with the provisions
of the Act. So construed, that subdivision merely applies
existing law.
The provision of paragraph two of the order as to
posting notices should be modified so as to exclude any
requirement to post a notice that the existing Brotherhood contracts have been abrogated.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is modified
so as to hold unenforceable the provision of subdivision
(f) of paragraph one of the order and the application to
that provision of paragraph two subdivision (c), and as
so modified the decree enforcing the order of the Board
is affirmed.
Modified and affirmed.

Opinion of

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER.

I agree with the Court's decision that the Board was
without authority to require employers to cease and desist from giving effect to the contracts referred to in
" 29 U. S. C. 159.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of BumT.,

J.

305 U. S.

subdivision (f) of the first paragraph of the order. And
I am of opinion that the entire order should be set aside.
The Board was without jurisdiction. The facts on
which it assumed to exert power need not be narrated;
they are sufficiently stated by the lower court and in
the opinion here. Both courts rightly treat the case as
one where neither employers nor employees are engaged
in interstate or foreign commerce. Here, the employers
are engaged solely in intrastate activities. A very small
percentage of the products, furnished in that State to
others, is by the latter used in interstate commerce. This
Court has held that Congress cannot regulate relations
between employers and employees engaged exclusively
in intrastate activities.
In Schechter Corp. v. United States (May, 1935), 295
U. S. 495, decided shortly before passage of the National
Labor Relations Act, we held that the federal government cannot regulate the wages and hours of labor of
persons employed in the internal commerce of the State.
In Carter v. Carter Coal Co. (May, 1936), 298 U. S.
238, decided shortly after passage of the National Labor
Relations Act, we held that provisions of the Bituminous
Coal Conservation Act of 1935 looking to the control of
wages, hours, and working conditions of persons engaged
in producing coal about to move in interstate commerce
and seeking to guarantee their right of collective bargaining, were beyond the power of Congress, for the reasons
that it has no general power of regulation to promote the
general welfare; that the power to regulate commerce does
not include the power to control the conditions in which
coal is produced; that the effect upon interstate commerce of labor conditions involved in the production of
coal, including disputes and strikes over wages and working conditions, is indirect.
In the period, less than a year, intervening between
the Carter case and Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin
(April, 1937), 301 U. S. 1, and other Labor Board cases

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of BuTim, J.

decided on the same day,'-and, as I think, wrongly decided-it was, on the authority of the Schechter and
Carter cases, held by four circuit courts of appeals and
six district courts that the power of Congress does not
extend to regulations between employers and their employees engaged in local production. Their decisions are
cited in the dissenting opinion in the Labor Board cases.
301 U. S. 76. In that period the lower courts were bound
by our decisions to condemn the National Labor Relations
Act, construed to apply to production or intrastate commerce, as not within the power of Congress.
This case is not distinguishable from the Schechter case
or the Carter case. There, as here, the activities of the
employers and their employees were exclusively local. It
differs from the Jones & Laughlin ease and all the other
Labor Board cases.2 In each of them, the employer was
to an extent engaged in interstate commerce. The opinion just announced points to no distinction between this
case and the Schechter or Carter case. Nor does it refer
to the Labor Board cases as controlling here. But, to support this federal advance into local fields, the Court brings
forward three railroad rate cases: Houston & Texas Ry. v.
United States (The Shreveport Case), 234 U. S. 342;
Wisconsin Railroad Comm'n v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co.,
257 U. S. 563; and New York v. United States, 257 U. S.
591.
These cases give no support to the idea that, in absence
of conflict between state and federal policy or regulaLabor Board v. Fruehauf Co., 301 U. S. 49.

Labor Board v.

Clothing Co., 301 U. S. 58. Associated Press v. Labor Board, 301
U. S. 103. Washington Coach Co. v. Labor Board, 301 U. S. 142.
'Labor Board v. Fruehauf Co., 301 U. S. 49. Labor Board v.
Clothing Co., 301 U. S. 58. Associated Press v. Labor Board, 301
U. S. 103. Washington Coach Co. v. Labor Board. 301 U. S. 142.
Labor Board v. Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261. Labor Board v.
Pacific Lines, 303 U. S. 272. Santa Cruz Co. v. Labor Board, 303
U. S. 453. Labor Board v. Mackay Radio & T. Co., 304 U. S. 333.
105537*-39----16

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

BUTLER, J.

305 U. S.

tion, Congress has power to control labor conditions in
production or intrastate transportation. In each, the
federal interference is shown necessary in order to protect
national authority, interstate commerce, and interstate
rates established under federal law. Brief reference to
the conditions that led up to these cases and the substance of the decisions will be sufficient to show they
have no application here.
In 1906 and 1907, Minnesota reduced intrastate rates
substantially below lawfully established interstate rates.
Suits were brought by their stockholders to restrain the
carriers from obeying, and state officers from enforcing,
the local rates on the ground, inter alia, that they were
repugnant to the commerce clause and that enforcement
would necessarily interfere with and burden interstate
transportation by the carriers. The Minnesota Rate
Cases, 230 U. S. 352. The controversy was everywhere
regarded as important. See p. 395. The facts found by
the special master and adopted by the circuit court are
stated in its opinion (Shepard v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co.
(1911), 184 F. 765, 775-794) and summarized in the
opinion of this Court. pp. 381-395. They show that the
intrastate rates discriminated against interstate commerce and made it impossible for the carriers to collect,
or for the United States to enforce, valid higher interstate
rates. The trial court held the state measures repugnant to the commerce clause and upon that ground,
among others, enjoined enforcement of the rates they
prescribed.
The cases were argued here in April, 1912, and decided June 9, 1913. This Court upheld the state rates,
notwithstanding the commerce clause, the Act to Regulate Commerce, the interstate rates lawfully established
in accordance with federal law, and the destructive discrimination. It held that, in the absence of a finding by
the Interstate Commerce Commission of unjust dis-

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of Buma, J.

crimination, the intrastate rates were valid. The opinion
reserved, p. 419, the question whether the Commission
was empowered to make the determination. And that
question was decided in the Shreveport case, 234 U. S.
342, 357.
That case was pending here before the decision in the
Minnesota Rate Cases, and was decided in June, 1914.
The Interstate Commerce Commission had found that
rates prescribed by Texas operated to discriminate against
interstate traffic from Shreveport, Louisiana, into Texas
moving on lawfully established interstate rates. In order
to eliminate the discrimination, the Commission directed
the carriers to cease charging higher rates for interstate
transportation than those charged for transportation between Texas points. This Court held the carriers free to
raise the intrastate rates so as to remove the discrimination.
Wisconsin RailroadComm'n v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co.
(1922), 257 U. S. 563, upheld § 15a of the Interstate Commerce Act, added by § 422, Transportation Act, 1920,
which empowered the Interstate Commerce Commission
to remove discrimination resulting from intrastate rates
unduly low, as compared with corresponding rates fixed
under that section.
New York v. United States, 257 U. S. 591, held that
intrastate rates so low that they discriminated against
interstate commerce within the meaning of the Trailsportation Act, 1920, may constitutionally be increased
under that Act by the Commission to conform with like
rates in interstate commerce fixed by it.
The constitutional questions decided in these three cases
were essentially different from the one of federal power
here presented. The state measures there overborne were
repugnant to existing federal regulations of interstate
commerce. Application of the lower state rates made it
impossible for federal authority to require, or to enable,

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

Rn.D,

J.

305 U. S.

carriers to collect interstate rates lawfully established as
just and reasonable. The policy and provisions of the
New York State Labor Relations Act are in substance
precisely the same as the national policy and the National
Labor Relations Act. The State's interest, purpose, and
ability to safeguard against possible interruption of production and service by labor disputes are not less than
those of the federal government. The State's need of
continuous service is immediate, while the effect of interruption on interstate or foreign commerce would be
mediate, indirect, and relatively remote. The record fails
to disclose any condition, existing or threatened, to suggest as necessary federal action to protect interstate commerce, or any other interest of the government against
interruption or interference liable to result from controversies between these employers and their employees.
The right of the States, consistently with national policy
and law, freely to exert the powers safeguarded to them
by the Federal Constitution is essential to the preservation of this government. United States v. E. C. Knight
Co., 156 U. S. 1, 12, 13. Kidd v. Pearson,128 U. S. 1, 21.
Asseveration of need to uphold our dual form of government and the safeguards set for protection of the States
and the liberties of the people against unauthorized exertion of federal power, does not assure adherence to, or
conceal failure to discharge, duty to support the Constitution. See Schechter Corp. v. United States, supra,548550. Cf. Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin, supra, 29-30.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS concurs in this opinion.
MR.JUSTICE REED concurring in part, dissenting in part.

While concurring in general with the conclusions of the
Court in this case, I find myself in disagreement with the
conclusion that the National Labor Relations Board was
"without authority to require the petitioning companies

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of REED, J.

to desist from giving effect to the Brotherhood contracts,
as provided in subdivision (f) of paragraph one of the
Board's order." In that paragraph the petitioner cQmpanies are ordered to:
"I. Cease and desist from:
(f) Giving effect to their contracts with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers."
It is agreed that the "fundamental purpose of the Act
is to protect interstate and foreign commerce from interruptions and obstructions caused by industrial strife."
This is to be accomplished by contracts with labor organizations, reached through collective bargaining. The
labor organizations in turn are to be created through the
self-organization of workers, free from interference, restraint or coercion of the employer.' The forbidden interference is an unfair labor practice, which the Board,
exclusively, is empowered to prevent by such negative
and affirmative action as will effectuate the policies of
the act.2 To interpret the Act to mean that the Board
is without power to nullify advantages obtained by the
Edison companies through contracts with unions, partly
developed by the unlawful interference of the Edison companies with self-organization, is to withdraw from the
Board the specific authority granted by the Act to take
affirmative action to protect the workers' right of selforganization, the basic privilege guaranteed by the Act.
Freedom from employer domination flows from freedom
in self-organization.
It is assumed that the terms of these contracts in all
respects are consistent with the requirements of the National Labor Relations Act and are in themselves, considered apart from the actions of the Edison companies
in securing their execution, advantageous in preserving
industrial harmony.
'Labor Board Cases, 301 U. S. 1.
§§ 7, 8, 10, Act of July 5, 1935, 49 Stat. 452-55.

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of RaMm, J.

305 U. S.

The Board found that the Consolidated Edison Company and its affiliates, the respondents before the Board,
"deliberately embarked upon an unlawful course of conduct, as described above, which enabled them to impose
the I. B. E. W. upon their employees as their bargaining
representative and at the same time discourage and
weaken the United which they opposed. From the outset
the respondents contemplated the execution of contracts
with the I. B. E. W. locals which would consummate
and perpetuate their plainly illegal course of conduct in
interfering with, restraining, and coercing their employees
in the exercise of the rights guaranteed to them under
section 7 of the Act. It is clear that the granting of the
contracts to the I. B. E. W. by the respondents was a
part of the respondents' unlawful course of conduct and
as such constituted an interference with the rights of
their employees to self-organization. The contracts were
executed under such circumstances that they are invalid,
notwithstanding that they are in express terms applicable
only to members of the I. B. E. W. locals. If the contracts are susceptible of the construction placed upon
them by the respondents, namely, that they were exclusive collective bargaining agreements, then, a fortiori,
they are invalid."
The evidence upon which this finding is based is summarized in detail in 4 N. L. R. B., pages 83 to 94. It
shows a consistent effort on the part of the officers and
foremen of the Edison Company and its affiliates, as well
as other employees of the Edison companies-formerly
officers in the recently disestablished "Employees' Representation Plans," actually company unions--to further
the development of the I. B. E. W. unions by recognition, contracts for bargaining, openly expressed approval,
'4 N. L. R. B. 71, 94.

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of RUED, J.

establishment of locals, and by permitting solicitation of
employees on the time and premises of the Edison companies. By the Wagner Act employees have "the right
to self-organization." It is an "unfair labor practice
for an employer" to "interfere with, restrain or coerce
employees" in the exercise of that right.' The Board
-concluded that the contracts with the I. B. E. W. unions
were a part of a systematic violation by the Edison companies of the workers' right to self-organization.
This determination set in motion the authority of the
Board to issue an order to cease and desist from the unfair labor practice and to take "such affirmative action
. . . as will effectuate the policies of this Act." The evidence was clearly sufficient to support the conclusion of
the Board that the Edison companies entered into the
contracts as an integral part of a plan for coercion of and
interference with the self-organization of their employees.
This justified the Board's prohibition against giving effect
to the contracts. The "affirmative action" must be connected with the unfair practices but there could be no
question as to the materiality of the contracts. As this
Court, only recently, said, as to the purpose of the Congress in enacting this Act:
"It had before it the Railway Clerks case which had
emphasized the importance of union recognition in securing collective bargaining, Report of the Senate Committee on Education and Labor, S. Rep- 573, 74th Cong.,
1st Sess., p. 17, and there were then available data showing that once an employer has conferred recognition on a
particular organization it has a marked advantage over
any other in securing the adherence of employees, and
hence in preventing the recognition of any other." I
To this, it is answered that the extent of the coercion
is left to "mere conjecture"; that it would be an "extrava' §§ 7 and 8, Act of July 5, 1935, 49 Stat. 452.
Labor Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261, 267

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of REED, J.

305 U. S.

gant" assumption to say that none of the 30,000 members
"joined voluntarily"; and that the "employers' practices,
which were complained of, could be stopped without imperiling the interests of those who for all that appears
had exercised freely their right of choice." I On the question whether or not the Edison companies' activities as to
these contracts were a part of a definite plan to interfere
with the right of self-organization, these answers are
immaterial. It is suggested that the problem of the contracts should be approached with three cardinal considerations in mind: (1) that one contracting party is an "independently established" labor organization, free of
domination by the employer; (2) that the contracts grant
valuable collective bargaining rights; and (3) that they
contain provisions for desirable working privileges. Such
considerations should affect discretion in shaping the
proper remedy. They are negligible in determining the
power of the Board. They would, if given weight, permit
paternalism to be substituted for self-organization. The
findings of the Board, based on substantial evidence, are
conclusive. 7 There was evidence of coercion and interference, and the Board did determine that the policies of
the Act would be effectuated by requiring the companies
to cease giving effect to these contracts.
The petitioners, however, aside from the merits, raise
procedural objections. It is contended that before the
Board could have authority to order the Edison companies
to cease and desist from giving effect to their contracts
with the unions, it was necessary that the unions as well
as the Edison companies should have legal notice or
should appear; that the unions were indispensable
parties. This Court has held to the contrary in Labor
Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261.
'Ante, p. 238.
'Washington, V. & M. Coach Co. v. Labor Board, 301 U. S. 142,

EDISON CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
197

Opinion of

REED, J.

This case determined that where an employer has created
and fostered a labor organization of employees, thus
interfering with their right to self-organization, the employer can be required without notice to the organization,
to withdraw all recognition of such organization as the
representative of its employees. It is said that this case
"is not apposite, as there no question of contract between
employer and employee was involved. The Board had
found upon evidence that the employer had created and
fostered the labor organization in question and dominated
its administration in violation of § 8 (2)." ' In the
instant case it was found that no such domination existed.
In the Greyhound case, the Board found not only domination under § 8 (2) but also, as in this case, an unfair
labor practice under § 8 (1). The company's violation
of § 8 (1) was predicated on its interference with selforganization.9 In the Greyhound case it was said that
the organization was not entitled to notice and hearing
because "the order did not run against the Association." "0
Here the unions are affected by the action on the contracts, exactly as the labor organization in the Greyhound
case was affected by the order to withdraw recognition.
It would seem immaterial whether those contracts were
violative of one or both or all the prohibited unfair
labor practices.
A further procedural objection is found in the failure
of the complaint, or any of its amendments, to seek
specifically a cease and desist order against continued
operation under the contracts. The companies were
charged with allowing organization meetings on the company time and on company property, permitting solici'Ante, p. 233.
'Labor Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261, 263.
"Id., 271.

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

REED, J.

305 U. S.

tation of membership during company time, and paying
overtime allowances to those engaged in soliciting or
coercing workers to join the contracting unions. The
complaint said that similar aid was not extended to a
competing union and that office assistance was given
to the effort to get members for the contracting unions.
These charges made it obvious that the contracts were
obtained from the unions which were improperly aided
by the Edison companies in violation of the prohibitions
against interference with self-organization. Contracts
so obtained were necessarily at issue in an examination of
the acts in question.
Certainly the Edison companies and the contracting
unions could have been allowed on a proper showing a further hearing on the question of the companies' continuing recognition of the contracts. By § 10(f) the Edison
companies and the unions could obtain a review of the
Board's order. In that hearing either or both could
show to the court, § 10(e), that additional evidence as
to the contracts was material and that it had not been
presented because the aggrieved parties had not understood that the contracts were subject to a cease and desist
order, or had not known of the proceeding. The court
could order the Board to take the additional evidence.
This simple practice was not followed. Although all
parties were before the lower court on the review, the
petitioners chose to rely on the impotency of the Board
to enter an order affecting the contracts.
In these circumstances the provision of the order requiring the Edison companies to cease from giving effect
to their contracts with the contracting unions is proper.
This order prevents the Edison companies from reaping
an advantage from those acts of interference found illegal
by the Board.
MR.

JUSTICE

BLACK concurs in this opinion.

