ARMSTRONG CO. v. NU-ENAMEL CORP.

315

Syllabus.

ARMSTRONG PAINT & VARNISH WORKS v. NUENAMEL CORP. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 51.

Argued November 7, 8, 1938.-Decided December 5, 1938.

1. A registrant under the Trade Mark Act of March 19, 1920 of the
name Nu-Enamel, for enamels and kindred products, brought suit
in the federal district court to enjoin infringement by a competitor who was using in the sale of enamels the name Nu-Beauty
Enamel. The bill alleged, inter alia, that in the trade the name
Nu-Enamel had come to mean the plaintiff and its products exclusively; that the mark distinguished plaintiff's goods from others
of the same class; and that Nu-Beauty Enamel was being passed
off by merchants as the product of the plaintiff. Held:
(1) It being conceded by the answer that the name Nu-Enamel
had come to mean plaintiff and its products, and that it distinguished plaintiff's goods from others of the same class, no
evidence or finding was needed to establish these facts. P. 322.
(2) By virtue of the adoption of the procedural provisions of
the Trade Mark Act of 1905 by the 1920 Act, the district court
and the circuit courts of appeals had original and appellate jurisdiction, respectively, of suits at law or in equity respecting trade
marks registered in accordance with the provisions of the latter
Act and arising under it; and this Court was given jurisdiction
by certiorari the same as in patent cases. P. 323.
(3) The allegation of registration under the 1920 Act, unless
plainly unsubstantial, is sufficient to give the district court jurisdiction of the merits. P. 324.
(4) The district court having properly acquired jurisdiction of
the suit for interference with the exclusive right to use the trade
mark, then though the issue of infringement fail because the trade
mark was not registrable, the court still has jurisdiction to determine, on substantially the same facts, the issue of unfair competition. Hurn v. Oursler, 289 U. S. 238. P. 324.
(5) As applied to enamels, the mark Nu-Enamel is descriptive,
but registrable nevertheless under paragraph (b) of the Trade
Mark Act of 1920. P. 329.
(6) Having in Nu-Enamel a registered mark which had acquired
a secondary meaning as indicating its products exclusively, plaintiff was entitled to protection against the unfair use of the words

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

305 U. S.

of the mark by a competitor seeking to palm off its goods as those
of the plaintiff, and had a cause of action against such a one either
for infringement of the mark or for unfair competition. P. 335.
(7) Upon the record of this case, the competitor's use of the
name Nu-Beauty Enamel was unfair and infringed the plaintiff's
trade mark Nu-Enamel. P. 336.
2. The federal Trade Mark Act of 1920 does not vest any new substantive rights but it does create remedies in the federal courts for
protecting the registrations and authorizes triple damages for infringement. P. 324.
3. Trade marks registered under the 1920 Act may be attacked
collaterally. P. 322.
4. The significant distinction between the Acts of 1905 and 1920 is
the omission in the latter of the provision in the earlier act making
the registration of a trade-mark prima facie evidence of ownership.
P. 323.
5. The remedies afforded registrants under the 1920 Act are available only to "owners." Ownership must be established by proof;
actual and exclusive use, short of a secondary meaning, is insufficient. P. 335.
6. Section 1 (b) of the Trade Mark Act of 1920 permits registration
of marks used for one year in interstate commerce which were
not registrable under the Act of 1905, "except those specified in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 5" of the Act of 1905. Held
that the phrase "except those specified in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of section 5" does not apply to the provisos of paragraph (b) other
than the first thereof. P. 331.
This has been the construction given the subsection by the Patent Office. Moreover, to construe it as barring names, descriptive
marks, and merely geographical terms, would make the subsection
useless.
7. The legislative history and administrative interpretation of a
statute have weight when choice is nicely balanced. P. 330.
8. A construction of a statute which preserves its usefulness is to be
preferred to another which does not. P. 333.
95 F. 2d 448, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p.

580, to review the reversal of a

decree dismissing for want of equity a bill for an injunction and other relief.

ARMSTRONG CO. v. NU-ENAMEL CORP.
315

317

Argument for Petitioner.

Messrs. Moses Levitan and George I. Haight, with
whom Mr. George A. Carpenter was on the brief, for
petitioner.
The decision that "Nu-Enamel" is a valid trade-mark
is contrary to the trade-mark laws of the United States,
under which this suit was brought, and in conflict with
applicable decisions of this court and of other Circuit
Courts, of Appeals.
Des6i'iptive words are not valid as trade-marks under the
trade-mark laws of the United States. Trade-Mark Act,
15 U. S. C. §§ 85, par. (b), 121; In re Chas. R. Long, Jr.
Co., 280 F. 975, 976; Standard Paint v. Trinidad, 220
U. S. 446; Canal v. Clark, 13 Wall. 311; Elgin Watch v.
Illinois Watch, 179 U. S. 665, 673; Richmond Remedies
v. Dr. Miles Medical Co., 16 F. 2d 598, 601; Kellogg
Co. v. National Biscuit Co., 71 F. 2d 662, 666; Charles
Broadway Rouss, Inc. v. Winchester Co., 300 F. 706, 712;
Rogers on "Good Will, Trade-Marks and Unfair Tradings," (1914 ed. reprinted 1919), 76.
That a descriptive word or term has acquired a secondary meaning does not render it capable of being appropriated as a valid trade-mark under the trade-mark
laws of the United States. Kay & Ess Co. v. Commissioner of Patents,92 F. 2d 552, 554; In re CanadaDry
Gingerale,Inc., 86 F. 2d 830, 832, 833; Speaker v. Shaler,
86 F. 2d 985, 987; Barber v. Overhead Door Corp., 65 F.
2d 147; Barton v. Rex-Oil Co., 2 F. 2d 402; Hercules
Powder v. Newton, 266 F. 169; Vacuum Oil v. Climax
Refining, 120 F. 254.
That "Nu-Enamel" may have acquired a secondary
meaning does not prevent others from using such words
in their primary descriptive sense as "Nu-Beauty" was
used by the petitioner in connection with the product
known as enamel. Warner & Co. v. Lilly & Co., 265 U. S.

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Respondents.

305 U. S.

526, 528; Pepsi-Cola v. Krause Bottling Co., 92 F. 2d
272, 274; Hygrade Food Products Corp. v. W. H. D. Lee
Mercantile Co., 46 F. 2d 771, 772; Fawcett Publications v. Popular Mechanics, 80 F. 2d 194, 197; O'Cedar
Corp. v. F. W. Woolworth Co., 66 F. 2d 363, 366.
There was no issue of unfair competition and the District Court had no jurisdiction on the ground of unfair
competition.
The bill of complaint contains no allegations of facts
constituting unfair competition, nor does it pray for relief
against unfair competition. Garrett v. Louisville & N.
R. Co., 235 U. S. 308, 313; Crocket v. Lee, 7 Wheat. 522,
527.
There was no diversity of citizenship, and, therefore,
no federal jurisdiction. Nu-Enamel Corp. v. Armstrong,
81 F. 2d 1; Atkins v. Gordan,86 F. 2d 595; Leschen Rope
Co. v. Broderick Co., 201 U. S. 166, 172; Hum v. Oursler,
289 U. S. 238, 248; Van Camp Sea Food Co. v. CohnHopkins, 56 F. 2d 797, 799; Sanders v. Paul, 74 F. 2d
399, 405.
"Nu-Enamel" is not infringed by "Nu-Beauty," or
"New Beauty" as used by petitioner in connection with
and on the product known as enamel. Elliott Varnish
Co. v. Sears, Roebuck Co., 232 F. 588, 591.
Mr. Edward S. Rogers, with whom Mr. William T.
Woodson was on the brief, for respondents. Mr. Karl D.
Loo8 entered an appearance for respondents.
There is an exact analogy between the general purposes
of the Act of 1920 authorizing the registration of marks
used as trade-marks for one year and the ten-year proviso of the 1905 Act (15 U. S. C. § 85) which authorizes
the registration of marks used as trade-marks for ten
years prior to Oct. 20, 1905.
The "b" register of the 1920 Act, like the ten-year
proviso, is designed to afford registration to marks actu-

ARMSTRONG CO. v. NU-ENAMEL CORP.
315

319

Argument for Respondents.

ally used as trade-marks although they may be descriptive, geographical or personal names. Thaddeus Davids
Co. v. Davids, 233 U. S. 461, 468, 469.
The Nu-Enamel mark now before the Court is not only
registered under the 1920 Act, but meets all the tests prescribed by the statute and imposed in Patent Office practice. The record shows that it is susceptible of trademark use; that it has actually been so used; is regarded
even by petitioner as a trade-mark; and that the trademark significance of the word Nu-Enamel is an identification of respondent and its goods is fully recognized byt
the public. These being the facts, the mark was clearly
registrable under the 1920 Act. Being so registered, it
is entitled to all the protection afforded by that Act, in-.
cluding, of course, the right of access to the federal courts
in cases involving it.
The only prerequisite for federal jurisdiction under
either Act is registration, and the district courts have
recognized their authority to act on that ground alone.
Recamier v. HarrietHubbard Ayer, Inc., 59 F. 2d 802.
When by virtue of the registration, the federal courts
have authority to act, they have authority to deal fully
with all aspects of the case. Vogue Co. v. Vogue Hat Co.,
12 F. 2d 991, 992.
It is of no importance whether the acts complained of
in this case are called trade-mark infringement or unfair
competition. Their characterization is merely epithetical. The act is the same. But even if it should be held
that respondents' registration of Nu-Enamel is invalid,
still the District Court had jurisdiction to restrain the
use of Nu-Beauty Enamel which results in the passing off
of petitioner's goods as respondents'. Waterman Co. v.
Gordon, 72 F. 2d 272, 273; Hurn v. Oursler, 289 U. S. 238,
246.
Petitioner's infringement is established by the evidence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Nu-Enamel Corporation of Illinois filed its bill of
complaint in a District Court of the United States in Illinois to enjoin the Armstrong Paint and Varnish Works,
a corporation of the same State, from using in the sale
of paints, varnishes and similar goods the words "NuBeauty Enamel" or any name including the words "NuEnamel" or other colorable imitation of plaintiff's registered trade-mark Nu-Enamel or otherwise infringing it;
to require an accounting of profits, and to recover treble
damages. Pending the litigation, the plaintiff sold its
assets to the other respondent, Nu-Enamel Corporation of
Delaware, but continued its own corporate existence.
The purchaser was permitted to intervene.
The bill showed the registration by the plaintiff of NuEnamel under the Act of March 19, 1920, Trade-Mark
308,024, for mixed paints, varnishes, paint enamels, prepared .shellacs, stains, lacquers, liquid cream furniture
polishes and colors ground in oil. It set out that the name
"Nu-Enamel" through wide use by plaintiff had come to
mean "plaintiff and plaintiff's products only" and the
"word 'Nu-Enamel' is a mark by which the goods of the
plaintiff are distinguished from other goods of the same
class." There were further allegations that defendant had
adopted the name "Nu-Beauty Enamel" with full knowledge of prior and extensive use by plaintiff of "NuEnamel"; that as a result of defendant's use of the mark
"Nu-Beauty Enamel," merchants passed off defendant's
products for plaintiff's, and that the products of both
manufacturers were sold in interstate commerce. An exhibit showed that plaintiff used its mark with this slogan
printed above it: "The coat of enduring beauty."
Defendant admitted "that the name 'Nu-Enamel' has
come to mean and is understood to mean, throughout the
United States, including the State of Illinois and the City

ARMSTRONG CO. v. NU-ENAMEL CORP.
315

321

Opinion of the Court.

of Chicago, the plaintiff and plaintiff's products only, and
the word 'Nu-Enamel' is a mark by which the goods of
the plaintiff are distinguished from other goods of the
same class"; denied the validity, but not the fact or
extent of the coverage, of the registration; asserted "NuEnamel" was a descriptive and generic term and that it
had adopted "Nu-Beauty" in connection with enamel and
kindred products before it heard of the trade-mark or
trade name "Nu-Enamel." Defendant answered specifically that it marketed only enamels under the designation "Nu-Beauty Enamel" and that it did not market
paints and varnishes under this name. The jurisdiction
of the court over the subject matter was denied.
The District Court made the following material findings of fact:
"1. Plaintiff and defendant at the time of the filing of
the bill of complaint herein were and are now both citizens of the State of Illinois. The intervener, Nu-Enamel
Corporation, is a corporation of the State of Delaware.
"2. 'Nu' in 'Nu-Enamel', appearing on plaintiff's label,
is a phonetic spelling or misspelling of the English word
'new' and means 'new.'
"3. 'Enamel' is a common English word describing a
paint which flows out to a smooth coat when applied and
which usually dries with a glossy appearance, and has long
been known as such in the paint industry and to the public
in general.
"4. 'Nu-Enamel' used in connection with paint or
enamel sold by plaintiff means 'new enamel' and is a common and generic term descriptive of the product to which
it is applied and of its new or recent origin.
"5. 'Nu' was commonly used in the paint and other
industries in combination with other words as a misspelling
or phonetic spelling of 'new' to designate brands and kinds
of enamel, paint and other commodities before plaintiff
and its predecessors adopted the name 'Nu-Enamel.'"

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

It determined that "Nu-Enamel" was not a valid trademark under the Trade-Mark Acts or at common law and,
having so determined, refused jurisdiction of unfair
competition.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 1 That court
held the trade-mark non-descriptive, valid and infringed.
It was of the opinion that the mark had acquired a secondary meaning. It found that the petitioner's conduct
enabled merchants to palm off the Armstrong product for
"Nu-Enamel" and concluded that the District Court had
jurisdiction of the issue of unfair competition. We
granted certiorari on account of the importance in trademark law of the issues of the descriptive, character of the
mark and the effect of its acquired meaning under the
Trade-Mark Act of 1920.
As the petitioner concedes by answer that "Nu-Enamel"
has acquired the meaning of respondent and respondent's
products only and is a mark which distinguishes respondent's goods from others of the same class, no evidence or
finding is needed to establish that fact. It may be noted,
also, that the allegation of the use of "Nu-Beauty
Enamel" by Armstrong on products other than enamels,
fails of proof. Armstrong uses this mark on enamels only.
On other products, there is the mark "Nu-Beauty," followed by some descriptive word, such as paint, varnish
or brush.
Federal Trade-Mark Act of 1920. The registration of
"Nu-Enamel" does not create any substantive rights in
the registrant.2 Trade-marks registered under the 1920
'95 F. 2d 448.
'Kellogg Co. v. National Biscuit Co., ante, p. 117, note 3; Charles
Broadway Rouss, Inc. v. Winchester Co., 300 F. 706, 713, 714;
Sleight Metallic Ink Co. v. Marks, 52 F. 2d 664, on rights it is "as
though there had been no registration," p. 665; Neva-Wet Corp. v.
Never Wet Processing Corp., 277 N. Y. 163; 13 N. E. 2d 755, 759;
Slaymaker Lock Co. v. Reese, 24 F. Supp. 69, 72.

ARMSTRONG CO. v. NU-ENAMEL CORP.
315

323

Opinion of the Court.

act may be attacked collaterally. Kellogg Co. v. National
Biscuit Co., 71 F. 2d 662, 666.
The act forbids the unauthorized use of the registered
mark in foreign and interstate commerce and adopts the
procedural provisions of the Trade-Mark Act of 1905V
Through the inclusion of these procedural sections the
lower federal courts are given original and appellate jurisdiction of "all suits at law or in equity respecting trademarks registered in accordance with the provisions of this
Act, arising under the present Act" and this Court was
given jurisdiction for certiorari "in the same manner as
provided for patent cases."'' Section 19 of the 1905 act
vesting power to grant injunctions in trade-mark cases is
applicable also to proceedings under the 1920 act. By
§ 23 former remedies in law and equity are left available.
The significant distinction between the two acts is the
omission in the 1920 act of the provision of § 16 of the
earlier act making the registration of a trade-mark prima
facie evidence of ownership.
On its face the act shows it was enacted to enable
American and foreign users of trade-marks to register
them in accordance with the provisions of the convention for the protection of trade-marks and commercial
names, signed at Buenos Aires in 1910. In addition § 1,
paragraph (b), provides, without limitation to the export trade, for the registration of marks not registerable
under § 5 of the Trade-Mark Act of 1905, after one year's
use in interstate or foreign commerce. This enables the
(b) marks to be registered abroad.
'Trade-Mark Act of March 19, 1920, c. 104, § 6, 41 Stat. 535.
'Secs. 17 and 18, Fed. Trade-Mark Act of February 20, 1905, 33
Stat. 728-29; §§ 5 and 6, Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 827-28;
§ 240a of the Judicial Code confirms this jurisdiction. Street &
Smith v. Atlo, MIg. Co., 231 U. S. 348, 352. Cf. Forsyth v. Hammond,
166 U. S.506, 513.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

While the act of 1920 does not vest any new substantive rights, it does create remedies in the federal courts
for protecting the registrations and authorizes triple damages for infringement.' As a consequence of these remedial provisions, when a suit is begun for infringement,
bottomed upon registration under the 1920 act, the district courts of the United States have jurisdiction. Unless
plainly unsubstantial, the allegation of registration under
the act is sufficient to give jurisdiction of the merits.
In this case the trial court concluded that the .invAlidity
of the trade-mark divested it of jurisdiction over unfair
competition. This was erroneous.' Once properly obtained, jurisdiction of the one cause of action, the alleged infringement of the trade-mark, persists to deal
with all grounds supporting it, including unfair competi' 41 Stat. 534, § 4. "That any person who shall without the consent
of the owner thereof reproduce, counterfeit, copy, or colorably imitate
any trade-mark on the register provided by this Act, and shall affix
the same to merchandise of substantially the same descriptive properties as those set forth in the registration, or to labels, signs, prints,
packages, wrappers, or receptacles intended to be used upon or in
connection with the sale of merchandise of substantially the same
descriptive properties as those set forth in such registration, and shall
use, or shall have used, such reproduction, counterfeit, copy, or
colorable imitation in commerce among the several States, or with a
foreign nation, or with the Indian tribes, shall be liable to an action
for damages therefor at the suit of the owner thereof; and whenever
in any such action a verdict is rendered for the plaintiff the court
may enter judgment therein for any sum above the amount found by
the verdict as the actual damages, according to the circumstances of
the case, not excceding three times the amount of such verdict,
together with the costs."
'Although we determine later that "Nu-Enamel" is registerable
under the 1920 act, it seems appropriate to discuss jurisdiction of
unfair competition on a different assumption so that the conclusion
of the trial court, corrected but not discussed by the appellate court,
will not become a precedent on issues of jurisdiction in trade-mark
law. Cf. Hum v. Oursler, 289 U. S. 238, 240.

ARMSTRONG CO. v. NU-ENAMEL CORP.
315

325

Opinion of the Court.

tion with the marked article.' The cause of action is the
interference with the exclusive right to use the mark "NuEnamel." If it is a properly registered trade-mark, a
ground to support the cause of action is violation of the
Trade-Mark Act. If it is not a properly registered trademark, the ground is unfair competition at common law.
The facts supporting a suit for infringement and one for
unfair competition are substantially the same. They constitute and make plain the wrong complained of, the
violation of the right to exclusive use.
In the Oursler case there was a valid copyright which
was held not infringed. Here the trial court determined
the trade-mark was invalid. The Oursler case held that
where the causes of action are different, the determination that the federal cause fails calls for dismissal.' But
where there is only one cause of action we do not consider
that the holding of the invalidity furnishes any basis for
a distinction between this and the Oursler case. Registration of "Nu-Enamel" furnished a substantial ground
for federal jurisdiction. That jurisdiction should be continued to determine, on substantially the same facts, the
issue of unfair competition.'
Hum v. Oursler, 289 U. S. 238.
Hurn v. Oursler, 289 U. S. 238, 248.
0Two cases cited in the Oursler opinion deal with trade-marks:
Leschen Rope Co. v. Broderick Co., 201 U. S. 166, and Elgin Watch
Co. v. Illinois Watch Co., 179 U. S. 665. They are there treated
as out of line with the cases holding that facts supporting substantial federal and non-federal questions give jurisdiction to federal
courts. Both state categorically that without a lawfully registered
trade-mark a federal court loses jurisdiction when the jurisdiction
depends on the trade-mark act.
Where diversity of citizenship exists the issue does not arise.
Warner & Co. v. Lilly & Co., 265 U. S. 526. While the diversity is
not made plain in the opinion it appears in the record. No. 32, 1923
Term, Vol. 13, Transcripts of Record 1689.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

Registration of Descriptive Mark under 1920 TradeMark Act. Even though under the facts alleged and the
admission that respondent's mark has acquired a secondary meaning the federal courts have jurisdiction to
determine whether petitioner is chargeable with unfair
competition, it becomes necessary to determine whether
registration of "Nu-Enamel" is permissible or impermissible under the Act of 1920 in order that it may be known
whether § 4, the basis of the prayer in the bill for triple
damages, is applicable."0 Section 1 (b) of the 1920 act
permits registration of the marks used for one year in
interstate commerce which were not registerable under
the Act of 1905 "except those specified in paragraphs (a)
and (b) of section 5" of the Act of 1905. That section
is set out below." The point raised is whether the phrase
See Note 5, supra.
When the trial court concluded the trade-mark was not registerable
under the 1920 Act, it dismissed the bill which also sought damages
for unfair competition. When the Circuit Court of Appeals concluded the trade-mark was registerable as non-descriptive, it declared
that the issue of unfair competition was cognizable in the trial court.
It does not appear whether the reason for this holding was because
the mark was registerable or because it had acquired a secondary
meaning, through extensive use. The lower court does not consider
whether the bill alleges registration under the 1920 Act. If the mark
is not descriptive it is registerable under the 1905 Act. A mark
registerable under the 1905 Act is not registerable under the 1920
Act. 16 Trade Mark Reporter, 93, 530. The language of the 1920
Act permits registration only of marks communicated by the international bureau and those not registerable under the 1905 Act.
"No mark by which the goods of the owner of the mark may be
distinguished from other goods of the same class shall be refused
registration as a trade-mark on account of the nature of such mark
unless such mark"(a) Consists of or comprises immoral or scandalous matter.
"(b) Consists of or comprises the flag or coat of arms or other
insignia of the United States or any simulation thereof, or of any
State or municipality or of any foreign nation, or of any design or
picture that has been or may hereafter be adopted by any fraternal
"

ARMSTRONG CO. v. NU-ENAMEL CORP.
315

327

Opinion of the Court.

"except those specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 5" of the 1905 act is effective to bar not only marks,
contra bonos mores, under (a) and marks, infra dignitatem, under (b) but also the following provisos, particularly the one concerned with descriptive words or
devices.
society as its emblem, or of any name, distinguishing mark, character,
emblem, colors, flag, or banner adopted by any institution, organization, club, or society which was incorporated in any State in the
United States prior to the date of the adoption and use by the applicant: Provided, That said name, distinguishing mark, character,
emblem, colors, flag, or banner was adopted and publicly used by said
institution, organization, club, or society prior to the date of adoption
and use by the applicant: Provided, That trade-marks which are
identical with a registered or known trade-mark owned and in use
by another and appropriated to merchandise of the same descriptive
properties, or which so nearly resemble a registered or known trademark owned and in use by another and appropriated to merchandise
of the same descriptive properties as to be likely to cause confusion
or mistake in the mind of the public or to deceive purchasers shall
not be registered: Provided, That no mark which consists merely in
the name of an individual, firm, corporation, or association not written, printed, impressed, or woven in some particular or distinctive
manner, or in association with a portrait of the indivdual, or merely
in words or devices which are descriptive of the goods with which
they are used, or of the character or quality of such goods, or merely
a geographical name or term, shall be registered under the terms of
this subdivision of this chapter: Provided further, That no portrait
of a living individual may be registered as a trade-mark except by
the consent of such individual, evidenced by an instrument in writing,
nor may the portrait of any deceased President of the United States
be registered during the life of his widow, if any, except by the consent of the widow evidenced in such manner: And provided further,
That nothing herein shall prevent the registration of any mark used
by the applicant or his predecessors, or by those from whom title
to the mark is derived, in commerce with foreign nations or among
the several States or with Indian tribes, which was in actual and
exclusive use as a trade-mark of the applicant, or his predecessors
from whom he derived title for ten years next preceding February
20, 1905: Provided further, That nothing herein shall prevent the registration of a trade-mark otherwise registerable because of its beirig

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

It seems clear that the mark "Nu-Enamel" is descriptive of a type of paint long familiar to manufacturers,1 2
with the addition of the adjective new, phonetically
spelled or misspelled. Obviously this slight variation
from the orthographic normal is not unusual. Numerous
the name of the applicant or a portion thereof. And if any person
or corporation shall have so registered a mark upon the ground of
said use for ten years preceding February 20, 1905, as to certain
articles or classes of articles to which said mark shall have been
applied for said period, and shall have thereafter and subsequently
extended his business so as to include other articles not manufactured
by said applicant for ten years next preceding February 20, 1905,
nothing herein shall prevent the registration of said trade-mark in
the additional classes to which said new additional articles manufactured by said person or corporation shall apply, after said trademark has been used on said article in interstate or foreign commerce
or with the Indian tribes for at least one year, provided another
person or corporation has not adopted and used previously to its
adoption and use by the proposed registrant, and for more than -one
year such trade-mark or one so similar as to be likely to deceive in
such additional class or classes." U. S. C., Title 15, § 85.
" "Enamel or Varnish Paint.-These types of paints dry with a
brilliant glossy surface. They are made by grinding the selected pigment, or mixture of pigments, in a varnish medium, and their nature
and properties depend on the type of varnish used. A quick-drying
variety is made by using a cheap rosin varnish as the vehicle, it dries
with a high gloss surface in about 2-4 hours, but owing to the brittle
and non-durable nature of the varnish used it is only suitable for
interior use. High-class durable enamels, suitable for both inside and
outside use, are made by using mixtures of heat-treated linseed oil
(stand oil) and elastic copal varnishes as the vehicle. They are slowdrying, taking from 12-18 hours, and are very tough under the
severest climatic conditions.
"Flat Paint.-This type of paint is really a flat-drying enamel. It
is made in much the same way as the high class glossy enamels,
except that it contains less varnish and more turpentine than ordinary
enamel. Some varieties contain a proportion of wax dissolved in the
varnish so as to give a more perfect mat or flat finish. Owing to
their pleasing decorative effect they are used for interior decorations,
but are not suitable for outside use." 17 Encyclopedia Britannica
(14th ed.) 35.

ARMSTRONG CO. v. NU-ENAMEL CORP.
315

329

Opinion of the Court.

illustrations of such use by paint end varnish manufacturers are given by petitioner in its answer. The trademark is registered by the Nu-Enamel Corporation for a
variety of products from enamels through paint brushes
to glue, solder and tack rags. It is quite true that the
mark is not descriptive as applied to many of respondent's
products but the use by petitioner, the Armstrong Company, of which the Nu-Enamel Corporation complains is
the use of "Nu-Enamel" or "Nu-Beauty Enamel." This
use, Armstrong answers and the evidence supports the
assertion, is confined to the enamels. We must therefore
consider the case as though the only products of NuEnamel Corporation were enamels. As applied to them
it is descriptive.
That the mark is descriptive of paint enamels does not
bar it from registration as to them under the 1920 act.
This has been the construction of the Patent Office.1" To
'Wright Co. v. Sar-A-Lee Co., 328 Official Gazette 787, 788;
Postum Cereal Co. v. Cal. Fig Nut Co., 313 0. G. 454; Opinion of
Solicitor, Interior Department, July 13, 1920, 277 0. G. 181, 182:
"In my opinion the recent act of March 19, 1920, as applied to
register (b) therein provided should be construed as if it more
specifically read as follows:
"'All other marks not registerable under the act of February 20,
1905, as amended, except those specified as not registerablein paragraphs or schedules (a) and (b) of section 5 of that act, etc.'
"This is the plain meaning of the law, as it was undoubtedly the
intention to continue to deny registration to those marks prohibited
registration by paragraphs of schedules (a) and (b) of section 5 of
the act of February 20, 1905. In other words, my view is that
register (b) provided by the recent act is not intended for any trademark registerable under any part of the act of February 20, 1905,
nor for registration of any mark not registerable as specified in paragraphs or schedules (a) and (b) of section 5 of that act. The doubt
will be relieved and a rational construction of the law will be subserved
by considering the reference in the recent act to 'paragraphs (a)
and (b)' of section 5 of the amended act of February 20, 1905, as
meaning schedules a and b rather than paragraphs strictly and as
comprising the following matters specified as not registerable, viz:

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

construe (b) of the 1920 act to bar names, descriptive
marks and merely geographical terms would make the
subsection useless. The obvious purpose of its inclusion
was to widen the eligibility of marks. A dictum has expressed 14 a view contrary to that of the Patent Office.
This administrative interpretation, contemporary with
the legislation, and the legislative history have weight
"'(a) Consists of or comprises immoral or scandalous matter.
"'(b) Consists of or comprises the flag or coat-of-arms or other
insignia of the United States or any simulation thereof, or of any
State or municipality or of any foreign nation, or of any design or
picture that has been or may hereafter be adopted by any fraternal
society as its emblem, or of any name, distinguishing mark, character,
emblem, colors, flag or banner adopted by any institution, organization, club, or society which was incorporated in any State in the
United States prior to the date of the adoption and use by the applicant: Provided, That said name, distinguishing mark, character, emblem, colors, flag, or banner was adopted and publicly used by said
institution, organization, club, or society prior to the date of adoption
and use by the applicant.'
"This was the evident intention, as shown by the congressional
hearings on the recent act, and with such construction a field will
exist for the operation of the new law; otherwise none would remain."
Rule 19 of the Rules of the Patent Office Governing Registration of
Trade-marks, issued July 1, 1937, reads as follows:
"A trade-mark must have been actually used in commerce before
an application for its registration can be filed in the Patent Office.
"No trade-mark will be registered . . . under the act of February
20, 1905, which consists merely in the name of an individual, firm,
corporation, or association, not written, printed, impressed, or woven
in some particular or distinctive manner or in association with a portrait of the individual, or merely in words or devices which are descriptive of the goods with which they are used, or of the character
or quality of such goods, or merely a geographical name or term . . .
No trade-mark will be registered under section 1 (b), act of March
19, 1920, which is registrable under the act of February 20, 1905,
as amended, or which has not been in bona fide use as a trade-mark
for one year in international or interstate commerce or commerce
with Indian tribes."
"'In re Chas. R. Long, Jr., Co., 51 App. D. C. 399; 280 F. 975,

977.

ARMSTRONG CO. v. NU-ENAMEL CORP.
315

331

Opinion of the Court.

"when choice is nicely balanced." 1 We construe § 1 (b)
of the 1920 act to be applicable to the categories expressed in § 5 of the act of 1905 under (a) and (b) including the first'proviso but not to include the other
provisos of (b). This conclusion is fortified by the addi"Fox v. StandardOil Co., 294 U. S. 87, 96.
On January 21 and 22, 1920, the Committee on Patents of the
House of Representatives was considering H. R. 7157 of the 66th
Congress, 2nd Session, a bill to amend § 5 of the Trade-Mark Act of
1905. The Commissioner of Patents discussed with the Committee an
amendment applicable to H. R. 9023 of the 66th Congress entitled "A
bill to give effect to certain provisions of the convention for the
protection of trade-marks.'" The applicable language is as follows:
"Mr. Newton. Yes. The amendment we propose is this:
" 'All other marks not registerable under the act of February 20,
1905 (as amended), but which for not less than two years have been
bona fide used in interstate or foreign commerce, or commerce with
Indian tribes, by the proprietor thereof, upon or in connection with
any goods of such proprietor and ripon which the fee of $10 has been
paid and such formalities as. are prescribed by the Commissioner of
Patents have been complied with, may be registered.'
"Anything may be registered. That is an amendment to the bill
that was passed yesterday. That bill does not give prima facie
validity to the mark that is registered, the bill that passed yesterday,
and this amendment does not give it. That is the reason we put this
proposed amendment into the bill. But Mr. Merritt's bill wants to
give them prima facie evidence of ownership, so we put that under
the 1905 statute where it naturally belongs." Hearings on H. R. 7157
before the Committee on Patents, 66th Congress, 2d Session, p. 30.
Later in the hearing on the bill which became the act of March 19,
1920, this discussion was continued by Mr. Whitehead, Assistant Commissioner of Patents, who. discussed the Commissioner's suggested
language quoted above and said:
"One or two slight amendments ought, it seems to me, to be made
to the bill. The bill as it stands is broad enough to put any mark
on the register. Section 5 of the act of February 20, 1905, outlawsif I may use that expression-two classes of marks--one, scandalous
and immoral marks, and the other marks consisting of the flag or coat
of arms of the United States, etc., and it seems as if this Senate
amendment ought to be amended to exclude those marks specified

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

tion of the proviso to § 1 (b) of the 1920 act, relating
to identical trade-marks. The proviso in § 5 (b) of the
1905 act refusing registration to identical marks in much
the same language was construed in Thaddeus Davids
Co. v. Davids Mfg. Co., 233 U. S. 461, as not permitting
the registration of such marks when used for ten years
under the fourth, now fifth, proviso of that section. We
think that Congress in adopting the corresponding proviso in subsection (b) of the 1920 act, must be taken to
have adopted the accepted construction of the similar
proviso of the 1905 act. If the language of the 1920 act
had been intended to exclude from registration all the
classes excluded by the provisos of § 5 of the 1905 act,
it would have been unnecessary to include this proviso. "
This Court has had several occasions within the last
few years to construe statutes in which conflicts between
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of that section. Otherwise there can be
put on the register scandalous marks and the flag of the United States.
I think it must have been overlooked. I do not think Mr. Merritt or
Mr. Newton thought that they were including those two types of
marks. It seems as if that could be accomplished by inserting in
the amendment, after the words 'all other marks not registerable
under the act of February 20, 1905,' the words, 'except those specified
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 5 of that act,' or words to that
effect."

-

After discussion of other matters:
"The Chairman. If you will in your brief just make those suggestions, we will be glad to take them up with the conferees.
"Mr. Whitehead. I will be glad to do that. I think the only really
important one is to exclude those of paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 5. These others are minor matters." Hearings on H. R. 9023
before the Committee on Patents, 66th Congress, 2nd Session, Part 2,
pp. 33-35.
The precise language adopted came from the conference report.
Congressional Record, 66th Congress, 2nd Session, p. 4160.
"The variations between the two provisos have been treated in
practice as immaterial. 277 0. G. 181, 182. Cf. Thaddeus Davids
Co. v. DavidsMfg. Co., 233 U. S. 461, 467.

ARMSTRONG CO. v. NU-ENAMEL CORP.
315

333

Opinion of the Court.

reasonable intention and literal meaning occurred. We
have refused to nullify statutes, however hard or unexpected the particular effect, where unambiguous language
called for a logical and sensible result."' Any other course
would be properly condemned as judicial legislation.
However, to construe statutes so as to avoid results glaringly absurd, has long been a judicial function. 8 Where,
as here, the language is susceptible of a construction
which preserves the usefulness of the section, the judicial
duty rests upon this Court to give expression to the
intendment of the law.
Remedies. 9 Registration under the 1920 act conferred
no substantive rights in the registered mark but it does
permit suits in the federal courts to protect rights otherwise acquired in the marks. The 1905 act, § 1, authorizes
the "owner" to obtain registration of eligible trade-marks;
§ 2 requires the applicant to make oath that he "believes
himself . . . to be the owner of the trade-mark"; § 5 refers to the "owner of the mark"; § 16 then declares "that
the registration of a trade-mark under the provisions of
this act shall be prima facie evidence of ownership"; § 23
reserves all remedies at law or in equity which any party
aggrieved by the wrongful use of his trade-mark would
have had without the act of 1905.
The 1920 act omits the quoted portion of § 16 as to the
effect of registration as prima facie evidence of ownership.
Under § 1 the register includes all marks communicated
to the Commissioner of Patents by the international bureaus provided for by the Buenos Aires convention of 1910
ICaminetti v. United States, 242 U. S. 470, 485; Crooks v. Harrelson, 282 U. S. 55, 58-59; Taft v. Commissioner, 304 U. S. 351,
359.
"Sorrells v. United States, 287 U. S. 435, 446, et seq. and cases
cited; United States v. Ryan, 284 U. S. 167.
"Since neither party has relied upon state law, we do not consider
any effect it might have on our conclusions. Cf. Kellogg Co. v.
National Biscuit Co., ante, p. 111.

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

and all other marks not registerable under the TradeMark Act of 1905, with the exceptions discussed in the
preceding section of this opinion, in bona fide use by the
proprietor thereof for one year in commerce other than
intrastate. Section 4,20 which protects the trade-mark, is
substantially the same as § 16 of the 1905 act, except
for the omission of the prima facie presumption of ownership. It is the owner who has the rights of action under
this act, unaided by any presumption from registration.
The owner, on the other hand, is not limited in any way
by the act, as § 23 of the act of 1905 is made specifically
applicable. This section preserves the legal and equitable
remedies to an aggrieved owner. The Committee on Patents in the Senate was quite positive that the effect of
the act on domestic rights was nil."' The registrant acquires by the acceptance of his mark under the 1920 act
the right to proceed in the federal courts against infringers and to recover triple damages if he can establish
his ownership of. the trade-mark at common law.
"Nu-Enamel" is descriptive of the enamels in issue.
The use on the numerous other articles of respondent's
manufacture, in its advertising; on store window valances,
on electric and other displays, and as the name of many
stores and the sign of several thousand dealers, justify
petitioner's concession that the name means respondent
and respondent's products only and the word distinguishes
°See Note 5, supra.
"This legislation has no effect on the domestic rights of anyone.
It is simply.for the purpose of enabling manufacturers to register
their trade-marks in this country for the purpose of complying with
legislation in foreign countries, which necessitates registration in the
United States as a necessary preliminary for such foreign registration.
As the law now stands, it enables trade-mark pirates in foreign countries to register as trade-marks, the names and marks of the American
manufacturers, and thus levy blackmail upon them." Senate Report
No. 432, 66th Congress, 2nd Session, p. 2. Cf. Charles Broadway
Rouss, Inc. v. Winchester Co., 300 F. 706, 714.

ARMSTRONG CO. v. NU-ENAMEL CORP.
315

335

Opinion of the Court.

its goods from others of the same class. But a mark which
is descriptive is not a good trade-mark at common law.
It was said in Thaddeus David&Co. v. Davids Mfg.
Co. 8 that names registered under the last proviso of § 5
of the 1905 act became technical trade-marks upon valid
registration under that act. Assuming that descriptive
terms in this respect would be analogous to proper names,
there are clear distinctions between the acts. The 1920
act does not define "trade-mark" to include any mark
registered under its terms, as does § 29 of the 1905 act.
Remedies are afforded registrants under the 1920 act but
these remedies are for "owners," and actual and exclusive
use, short of a secondary meaning,2 4 does not qualify a
registrant under the 1920 act as an owner. That ownership must be established by proof.22 Unless this ownership
is established, no rights of action under the 1920 act for
infringement exist. Here we have a secondary meaning
to the descriptive term, "Nu-Enamel." This establishes,
entirely apart from any trade-mark act, the common law
right of the Nu-Enamel Corporation to be free from the
competitive use of these words as a trade-mark or trade
name.2 8 As was pointed out in the Davids case, in considering the ten-year clause of the 1905 act, this right of
freedom does not confer a monopoly on the use of the
words. It is a mere protection against their unfair use
as a trade-mark or trade name by a competitor seeking
" Warner & Co. v. Lilly & Co., 265 U. S. 526, 528; Standard Paint
Co. v. Trinidad Asphalt Mfg. Co., 220 U. S. 446, 453; Elgin Nat.
Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co., 179 U. S. 665, 673.
"233 U. S. 461, 466, 468, 469, 470.
-' Cf. Standard Paint Co. v. Trinidad Asphalt Mfg. Co., 220 U. S.
446, 461. The language in that case, denying to a descriptive term
the effect of a trade-mark, is inapplicable for the reason that the
descriptive term had not acquired a secondary meaning.
" Cf. Charles Broadway Rouss, Inc. v. Winchester Co., 300 F. 706,
713.
2' Thaddeus Davids Co. v. Davids MI g. Co., 233 U. S. 461, 470, 471.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

to palm off his products as those of the original user of
the trade name. This right to protection from such use
belongs to the user of a mark which has acquired a secondary meaning. He is, in this sense, the owner of the
mark. We agree with the conclusion of the Circuit Court
of Appeals that infringement is shown.
The rights of Nu-Enamel Corporation to be free of the
competitive use of "Nu-Enamel" may be vindicated, also,
through the challenge of unfair competition, as set out in
the bill. The remedy for unfair competition is that given
by the common law. The right arises not from the trademark acts but from the fact that "Nu-Enamel" has come
to indicate that the goods in connection with which it is
used are the goods manufactured by the respondent.
When a name is endowed with this quality, it becomes
a mark, entitled to protection. The essence of the wrong
from the violation of this right is the sale of the goods
of one manufacturer for those of another.2 7
The questions as to damages, profits, and the form of
the decree will be passed upon more appropriately by the
trial court. The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
reversing the decree of the District Court is affirmed and
this cause is remanded to the District Court with directions to proceed in conformity with the opinion of this
Court.
Affirmed.
SElgin Nat. Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co., 179 U. S. 665, 674.

