COLORADO BANK v. COMM'R.
19

Opinion of the Court.

Those cases go upon the theory that the taxing power
of a state is restricted to her confines and may not be
exercised in respect of subjects beyond them. Here, the
thing taxed was receipt of income within Virginia by a
citizen residing there. The mere fact that another state
lawfully taxed funds from which the payments were made
did not necessarily destroy Virginia's right to tax somethiig done within her borderS. After much discussion
the applicable doctrine was expounded and applied in
Lawrence v. State Tax Comm'n, 286 U. S. 276, and New
York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S. 308. The attempt
to draw a controlling distinction between them and the
present cause, we think, has not been successful.
The challenged judgment must be
Affirmed.

COLORADO NATIONAL BANK

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS,

v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 30. Argued October 21, 1938.--Decided November 7, 1938.
1. Whether a transfer was in contemplation of death held a question
of fact as to which the decision of the Board of Tax Appeals,
supported by -substantial evidence, was conclusive. P. 29.
There was evidence that the purpose of the transfer was to
enable the donor to speculate upon the stock market for the remainder of his life more actively than he had in the past without
fear that the part of his fortune transferred might be lost.
2. As to the meaning of the term "in contemplation of death," the
Court adheres to what was said in United States v. Wells, 283 U. S.
102. P. 30.
83, Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204, Baldwin
v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586, Beidler v South Carolina Tax Comm'n,
282 U. S. 1, First National Bank v. Maine, 284 U. S. 312, Senior v.
Braden, 295 U. S. 422.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

The mere purpose to make provision for children after a donor's
death is not enough conclusively to establish that action to that
end was "in contemplation of death." Broadly speaking, thoughtful men habitually act with regard to ultimate death, but something more than this is required in order to show that a conveyance comes within the ambit bf the statute, Rev. Act of 1926,
ยง 302 (c).
95 F. 2d 160, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 304 U. S. 556, to review a judgment up-

holding an estate tax assessment, and therein reversing a
contrary decision of the Board of Tax Appeals.
Mr. Morrison Shafroth, with whom Messrs. IV. WV.
Grant and Henry 11. Toll were on the brief, for petitioners.
M1r. Carlton Fox, with whom Solicitor General Jackson,
Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Mr. Sewall Key
were on the brief, for respondent.
By leave of Court, brief of anici curiae was filed by
Messrs. C. Alexander Capron, Charles Anqulo, and Philip
M. Payne, in support of petitioners.
MR. JUSTICE M\IcREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Edwin B. HIendrie of Denver, Colorado, January 26,
1925, executed a will wherein he gave his property, with
relatively small exceptions, to trustees to be held for the
benefit of his daughter, Gertrude Hendrie Grant, and her
children. January 7, 1927, when eighty years old and in
good health, he irrevocably conveyed in trust to the Colorado National Bank, securities of large value-perhaps
$800,000. The deed among other things provided that
the income should be accumulated during the donor's
life; after his death and during the life of his daughter
Gertrude so much thereof as she asked should be paid to

COLORADO BANK v. COMM'R.
23

Opinion of the Court.

her and the remainder added to the principal; upoi her
death the corpus should be distributed to her descendants, etc.
Hendrie died July 15, 1932. His 1925 will was duly probated and under it property worth some $900,000 passed.
The Commissioner ruled that the 1927 trust was set up
in contemplation of death within the meaning of
ยง 302 (c), Revenue Act of 1926, as amended,' treated the
property in the trustee's hands as part of the gross estate,
and assessed taxes thereon accordingly.
The Board of Tax Appeals considered the relevant facts
and held the conveyance of 1927 "was not made in contenplation of death within the meaning of the statute as
explained in United States v. Wells, 283 U. S. 102."
The Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the transfer
was in contemplation of death, and reversed the Board's
decision. We think this was error. The decision of the
Board should have been approved.
The court declared-"Each case must be determined by
its own facts and circumstances. . . . It is settled law
that a finding of fact made by the Board of Tax Appeals will not be disturbed on review if it is supported by
substantial evidence. But whether there is substantial
evidence to support a finding is a question of law ...
And a finding not thus supported will be set aside."
These statements are in accord with our holdings.
1 Revenue

Act of 1926, c. 27, 44 Stat. 9:

"Sec. 302. The value of the gross estate of the decedent shall be
determined by including the value at the time of his death of all
property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, wherever situated-

"(a) To the extent of the interest therein of the decedent at the
time of his death;
"(c) To the extent of any interest therein of which the decedent
has at any time made a transfer, by trust or otherwise, in contemplation of or intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or
after his death, . . ."

(U. S. C., Title 26, ยง 411,)

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S..

Also it said-"The test lies in the motive for the transfer. If the generating source of the motive is associated
with life, the transfer is not made in contemplation of
death. But if the generating- inducement is associated
with death, either immediate or distant, the transfer is
made in such contemplation. A gift is made in contemplation of death where the dominant motive of the donor
is to make proper provision for the object of his bounty
after the death of the donor."
Following a review of the evidence it said-"The dominant purpose was to make provision for his descendants
after his death, in the event his speculations proved
tragic. It was to place that substantial amount of property in an asylum of immunity from adverse consequences of speculation, in order to make certain that it
would be used for his daughter and her children after his
death. . .. The purpose was a commendable one, but
the generating motive for a transfer made in such circumstances is associated with death."
In the light of the views so stated the court concluded
there was no substantial evidence to establish that the
transfer was not made in contemplation of death. One
judge, dissenting, declared-"It seems clear from the uncontradicted testimony that Mr. Hendrie's gift to his
daughter and her children was not made in contemplation
of death but in order that he might speculate upon the
stock market for the remainder of his life more actively
than he had in the past without fear that the part of his
fortune thus given might be lost. He manifested no
other intent and purpose in that respect."
There was evidence which the Board thought adequate,
and which we deem substantial, to support its conclusion.
Dominant purpose was a question of fact for determination by the Board.
The court's opinion seems to rest upon an erroneous
interpretation of the term "in contemplation of death."

COLORADO BANK v. COMM'R.
23

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

The meaning of this was much discussed in United States
v. Wells, supra. We adhere to what was there said. The
mere purpose to make provision for children after a
donor's death is not enough conclusively to establish
that action to that end was "in contemplation of death."
Broadly speaking, thoughtful men habitually act with
regard to ultimate death, but something more than this
is required in order to show that a conveyance comes
within the ambit of the statute.
Here, the Board having before it all the circumstances,
including the provisions of the will, concluded that they
disclosed an effective motive not directly springing from
apprehension of death. And as pointed out by the dissenting judge there was substantial basis for that view.
Its action is in accord with principles accepted by us in
Shukert v. Allen, 273 U. S. 545, Reinecke v. Northern
Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339, May v. Heiner, 281 U. S. 238,
McCormick v. Burnet, 283 U. S. 784, Becker v. St. Louis
Union Trust Co., 296 U. S. 48.
The judgment of the Circuit Couft of Appeals must be
reversed. The decision of the Board of Tax Appeals is
approved.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE REED

concurs on the ground that the con-

clusion of the Board that the transfer was not made in
contemplation of death was justified. There was substantial evidence of a life motive and the Board did not
find an effective motive in contemplation of death.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting.

The purpose of Congress in providing that property
transferred to a trust should be included in the transferor's gross estate when transferred in contemplation of
death 1 was to prevent evasion of the progressively grad'Sec. 302 (c), Revenue Act, 1926, 44 Stat. 9.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

uated estate tax through the use of trust devices which
actually operated as substitutes for testamentary disposition of property.! The will made by Mr. Hendrie at
the age of seventy-eight in 1925 and the trust agreement
substituted for it at eighty (as to a large part of his property) two years later in 1927 were substantially identical
as to parties, recipients of his property, amounts, .terms
and conditions. Neither the will nor the trust agreement
permitted any, payments to the beneficiaries until the
death of Mr. Hendrie.
The stipulated evidence as to expressions by the donor
of his motive for making the trust agreement showed
that:
He "wanted to transfer about one third of his assets
in the interest of his daughter and her heirs so that whatever might happen to his own financial affairs in the
future, those persons would be provided for. He said he
desired to retain for himself his more speculative securities and to feel free to speculate with that property
during the rest of his life, but to put the other one-third

beyond his own reach and risk. He said he desired and
intended to 'play on the market' to a greater extent and
in a more speculative way for the remainder of his life."

(Italics supplied.)
At "one time he stated . . .that his daughter and his

grandchildren would be adequately provided for in the
event of his, the said Hendrie's death, through the medium of a trust which he had created, regardless of his
operations on the Stock Exchange."
In reaching the conclusion that the stipulated facts in
this case showed as a matter of law that the trust gift was
made in contemplation of the donor's death within the
meaning of the congressional act, the court below said
in part:
'Milliken v. United States, 283 U. S. 15; United States v. Wells,
283 U. S. 102, 116-17; cf. Tyler v. United 'states, 281 U. S. 417, 505.

COLORADO BANK v. COMM'R.
23

BLACK, J., dissenting.

"The trust was not designed to make provision for the
beneficiaries during his life. None of the property or the
increment thereto was to reach them until after his death.
Neither was it designed to enable him to engage in speculation. He could have done that unfettered and unrestrained without the establishment of the trust. But in
its absence the property transferred would have been subject to the hazards of speculation. It would have been
within reach of creditors if he lost all. The dominant
purpose was to make provision for his descendants after
his death, in the event his speculations proved tragic. It
was to place that substantial amount of property in an
asylum of immunity from adverse consequences of speculation, in order to make certain that it would be used for
his daughter and her children after his death. It was to
make assurance doubly sure that provision was made for
them, not during his life, but after his death." "
The Board of Tax Appeals did not pass upon conflicting evidence. And there is no indication that the Board
believed that any conflicting inferences could be drawn
from the stipulated facts. Stating that "the Commissioner relies upon the fact that the income was to be accumulated and added to corpus during the life of the
donor and, consequently, the beneficiaries were to receive
nothing until after the death of the decedent," the Board
did no more than say that they thought "the transfer was
not made in contemplation of death within the meaning
of the statute as explained in United States v. Wells, 283
U. S. 102," and that "Therefore, on this point, we hold
for the petitioners." That the Board reached its conclusion on this single principle is clearly indicated by its
statement that "Principles announced in the cases above
listed control this case which is not distinguishable from
one or more of those cases where, as here, income was to
'95 F. 2d 163.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

be accumulated until after the death of the donor."
(Italics supplied.)
The decision in United States v. Wells, supra, is not
controlling on the present facts. There the Court pointed
out that, in effect, the findings of the lower court showed
that the gift involved "'was the carrying out of a policy
long followed by decedent in dealing with his children
of making liberal gifts to them during his lifetime. He
had consistently followed that policy for nearly thirty
years and the three transfers in question were a continuation and final consummation of such policy. In the last
transfer such amounts were given to his children as would
even them up one with another, in the gifts and advancements made to them.
"'That this was the motive which actuated the decedent in making these transfers seems unquestioned.'"
Here, the donor had never followed any such policy.
His will indicated that he was motivated not by a desire
to give his children and grandchildren property while
he was yet living, but to provide for them after his death.
In the Wells case, supra, 117, this Court said that "the
motive which induces the transfer must be of the sort
which leads to testamentary disposition." That the
motive of the donor in this case was of the kind "which
leads to testamentary disposition" is conclusively shown
by the facts that the trust agreement was an actual substitute for a previous will; that the sole motive shown in
all of the evidence was to provide for the donor's children
and grandchildren after his death so he would be "free for
the rest of his life to speculate in whatever securities he
might wish" without subjecting the property intended for
his children and grandchildren to "the vicissitudes of his
speculations." '
' The statute alternatively taxes two types of trust transfers inter
vivos which may be substituted for wills. If a trust was intended

COLORADO BANK v. COMM'R.
23

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

Congress has provided that upon review of a judgment
of the Board of Tax Appeals the "courts shall have power
to affirm or, if the decision of the Board is not in accordance with law, to modify or to reverse the decision of the
Board, with or without remanding the case for a rehearing, as justice may require."' Although this statute indicates an intent on the part of Congress to make the
findings of fact of the Board conclusive, this Court holds
that such findings are not conclusive unless supported by
substantial evidence.' This Court has also said that the
ultimate finding by the Board of Tax Appeals is a "conclusion of law or at least a determination of a mixed
question of law and fact" which is "subject to judicial
review and, on such review, the court may substitute its
judgment for that of the board."' Under this rulewith which I am not in accord-but which governed the
Court of Appeals, I believe that Court correctly decided
that the Board had no substantial evidence to justify its
erroneous ultimate determination of the mixed question
of law and fact here. For that reason I think the judgment should be affirmed.
to take effect at death or if a trust was created in contemplation
of death, either contingency invokes the imposition of the tax. Holdings where the tax has been assessed on the theory that a trust
shifted such economic interests at a transferor's death-and not
when the trust was set up-that the transfer was intended to take
effect at death (Shukert v. Allen, 273 U. S. 545; Reinecke v. Northern
Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339; May v. Heiner, 281 U. S. 238; McCormick
v. Burnet, 283 U. S. 784; Becker v. St. Louis Union Trust Co., 296
U. S. 48) are not determinative of this case involving an alleged
motive in contemplation of death.
044 Stat. 110, 26 U. S. C., c. 5, ยง 641 (c).
0
Helvering v. Tex-Penn Co., 300 U. S. 481, 490; Helvering v.
Rankin, 295 U. S. 123, 131; Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589,
600.
'Helvering v. Tex-Penn Co., supra, at 491; Helvering v. Rankin,
supra.

