McDONALD v. THOMPSON.
Counsel for Parties.

McDONALD v. THOMPSON

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 55.

Argued November 8, 9, 1938.-Decided December 5, 1938.

1. Section 206 (a) of the federal Motor Carrier Act, 1935, declares
that no common carrier by motor vehicle subject to the provisions
of the Act may engage in interstate commerce unless there shall
have been issued by the Interstate Commerce Commission a certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing the operation. A proviso requires that the Commission issue a certificate
without further proof as to public convenience and necessity, where
the applicant was "in bona fide operation" as a common carrier
by motor vehicle on June 1, 1935, and since that time, over routes
for which application is made; and the applicant in such case is
authorized to continue operation pending the determination of the
application. Held that, one who had been operating as a common
carrier without the authority of the state commission-his application therefor having been denied prior to 1935 by an order subsequently upheld by the state court-had not been "in bona fide
operation" within the meaning of the proviso. P. 266.
2. As the Motor Carrier Act is remedial and to be construed liberally,
a proviso defining exemptions is to be read in harmony with the
purpose of the measure and held to extend only to carriers plainly
within its terms. P. 266.
95 F. 2d 937, affirmed.

to review a decree which reversed, with directions to dismiss the bill, a decree of injunction restraining enforcement against petitioner of the
Motor Truck Law of Texas.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 580,

Messrs. Lloyd E. Price and T. S. Christopherfor peti-

tioner.
Messrs. William McCraw, Attorney General of Texas,

and Albert G. Walker, Assistant Attorney General, for
respondents.

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

Petitioner in this suit claims "Grandfather Rights"
based upon his unlawful operation upon the highways of
the State of Texas. His "right-of-way" for his interstate
operations has never been secured from the constituted
authorities of the State, and all of his operations have
been as a trespasser upon the state highways, and unless
the state laws have been superseded the mere filing of
his application for certificate would confer no new right
upon him to continue his unlawful use of these Texas
highways. Town of Conway v. Atlantic Coast Line R.
Co., 20 F. 2d 250, 259.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Messrs. Daniel W. Knowlton and E. M. Reidy on behalf
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, in support of
petitioner; and by Messrs. John E. Benton and Clyde S.
Bailey on behalf of the National Association of Railroad
& Utilities Commissioners, in support of respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner brought this suit in the federal court for
the northern district of Texas against the members of
the Texas Railroad Commission and its enforcement officers to enjoin them from enforcing against him the state
Motor Truck Law.1 Respondents answered; there was
a trial; the court made findings of fact, stated its conclusions of law, and entered a decree permanently enjoining
respondents from interfering with petitioner's business
in interstate transportation. The circuit court of appeals
reversed and remanded with directions to dismiss the bill.
95 F. 2d 937. This Court granted a writ of certiorari.
Section 3 of the state law requires every carrier of
property by motor for hire over public highways of the
Acts Reg. Sess., 42d Leg., 1931, c. 277; Vernon's Tex. Ann. Civ.
St., Art. 911b.

McDONALD v. THOMPSON.
263

Opinion of the Court.

State to obtain from the Railroad Commission a certificate
of convenience and necessity. Section 4 makes it the duty
of the commission to regulate the transportation, to prescribe rules for safety of carriers' operations, and to supervise all matters affecting relationships between the
carriers and the public.
The federal Motor Carrier Act, 1935,2 ยง 206 (a), declares that no common carrier by motor vehicle subject
to its provisions shall engage in interstate commerce
unless there is in force with respect to such carrier a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by
the Interstate Commerce Commission authorizing the
operation. A proviso in that section declares that, if any
such carrier "was in bona fide operation as a common
carrier by motor vehicle on June 1, 1935," over routes for
which application is made and has so operated since
that time, the commission shall issue the certificate without requiring further proof that public convenience and
necessity will be served by the carrier's operation. Pending determination of the application, the applicant is
authorized to continue operations.
Since some time before the passage of the Act, petitioner has been continuously using Texas highways in
interstate transportation of property by motor vehicle
for hire. Claiming to have been in bona fide operation
as contemplated by the proviso, he made timely application to the Interstate Commerce Commission for a certificate authorizing him to continue to operate over the highways he has been using. The application is still pending,
and petitioner insists that, notwithstanding state law, he
is entitled to continue operations under the proviso. The

question first to be decided is whether his claim of bona
fide operation is well founded.
In May of 1934 he applied to the state commission for
a certificate authorizing operation as a common carrier in
2 Act of August 9, 1935, 49 Stat. 543, 551; 49 U. S. C., ยง 306 (a).

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

interstate commerce. July 14, 1934, the commission
denied the application on the ground that the proposed
operations would subject the highways named in it to
excessive burden and endanger and interfere with ordinary use by the public. Petitioner appealed to the district court of Travis county and obtained a decree enjoining the commission from interfering with his operations. The court of civil appeals, January 8, 1936, reversed and dissolved the injunction. 90 S. W. 2d 581.
Thus it appears that petitioner's operations have been
without authority. of the Texas commission and, unless
within the proviso of the federal Act, without authority
of federal law.
Exact definition of "bona fide operation" is not necessary. As the Act is remedial and to be construed liberally,
the proviso defining exemptions is to be read in harmony
with the purpose of the measure and held to extend only
to carriers plainly within its terms. Piedmont & Northern Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 286 U. S.
299, 311. To limit the meaning to mere physical operation would be to eliminate "bona fide." That would be
contrary to the rule that all words of a statute are to be
taken into account and given effect if that can be done
consistently with the plainly disclosed legislative intent.
Ginsberg & Sons v. Popkin, 285 U. S. 204, 208. Ex Parte
Public NationalBank, 278 U. S. 101, 104. There is nothing t& justify rejection of these qualifying words. The
expression, "in bona fide operation,'? suggests absence of
evasion, excludes the idea that mere ability to serve as a
common carrier is enough, includes actual rather than
potential or simulated service, and in context implies
recognition of the power of the State to withhold or condition the use of its highways in the business of transportation for hire. Plainly the proviso does not extend to
one operating as a common carrier on public highways of
a State in defiance of its laws.

M. E. BLATT CO. v. U. S.
263

Syllabus.

As petitioner is not protected in his operation as a common carrier by the proviso, we need not consider to what
extent, if at all, the federal Motor Carrier Act superseded
the state Motor Truck Law, or any other question presented by petitioner.

Affirmed.
M. E. BLATT CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 98. Argued November 15, 16, 1938.-Decided December 5, 1938.
1. Special findings of fact made by the Court of Claims are not
affected by any statement of fact, reasoning, or conclusion that
may be found in its opinion. P. 277.
2. Rent is a fixed sum, or property amounting to a fixed sum. It
does not include payments, uncertain as to amount and time, made
by the lessee for the cost of improvements. P. 277.
3. Improvements made by the lessee, even when required by the
lease, will not be deemed rent unless such intention is plainly disclosed. Id.
4. Improved real property was leased for use a8 a picture theater,
for ten years beginning upon completion of improvements made
and paid for partly by the lessor and partly by the lessee. The
lease provided that ipnprovements made by the lessee should become the property of the lessor, on expiration or earlier termination
of the leasehold. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue estimated
the depreciated values, at the end of ten years, of the lessee's improvements, omitting some which could then have no value, and
added one-tenth of the total estimate to the lessor's income for the
tax year next following the commencement of the lease. Held
erroneous.
(1) The question presented is whether, under this particular
lease, one-tenth of this "estimated depreciated value," at the end
of the term, was income of the lessor in the first year of the term.
There is nothing in the findings to suggest that cost of any improvement made by lessee was rent or an expenditure not properly
to be attributed to its capital or maintenance account as distinguished from operating expense.
They disclose no basis of value
on which to lay an income tax or the time of realization of taxable

