434

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Counsel for Parties.

305 U.S.

GWIN, WHITE & PRINCE, INC. v. HENNEFORD
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 75. Argued November 10, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.
A state tax measured by the gross receipts of the taxpayer from his
business of markeung fruit shipped from the State to the places
of sale in other States and foreign countries, held a burden on
interstate and foreign commerce prohibited by the commerce clause
of the Constitution. P. 436.
The business was that of a marketing agent for a federation of
fruit growers. The agent, with the aid of numerous representatives
without the State, sold the fruit to purchasers in other States and
in foreign countries, for prices fixed by the principal, collected
and accounted for the proceeds, and was paid at so much per box.
The tax, though nominally imposed upon the agent's activities
in Washington, is not apportioned to those activities, but is measured, like the compensation taxed, upon the entire interstate commerce service rendered, both within and without the State, and
burdens that commerce in direct proportion to its volume. If
Washington is free to exact such a tax, other States to which
the commerce extends may, with equal right, lay a tax similarly
measured for the privilege of conducting within their respective
territorial limits the activities there which contribute to the service.
193 Wash. 451; 75 P. 2d 1017, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming a judgment dismissing on the merits a bill to enjoin members of the State
Tax Commission of Washington from collecting a tax on
the -business activities" of the plaintiff-appellant.

Mr Frank S. Bayley, with whom Messrs. CarlE. Croson
and Ofell H. Johnson were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. R. G. Sharpe, Assistant Attorney General of Washiin;g.on, with whom Mr. G. W. Hamilton., Attorney Gencr Ii, vi-,s on the brief, for appellees.

GWIN, ETC., INC. v. HENNEFORD.
434

435

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This appeal raises the single question whether a Washington tax measured by the gross receipts of appellant
from its business of marketing fruit shipped from Washington to the places of sale in various states and in foreign
countries is a burden on interstate and foreign commerce
prohibited by the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
Appellant, a Washington corporation licensed to do
business there, brought this suit in the State Superior
Court to restrain appellees, comprising the State Tax
Commission, from collecting the "business activities" tax
laid by Chapter 180 of Washington Laws of 1935, amending Chapter 191 of Washington Laws of 1933, on the
ground that it infringes the commerce clause. By stipulation after demurrer to the bill of complaint the cause
was tried and decided on the merits, upon facts stated in
the complaint and certain others specified in the stipulation. Judgment of the trial court for appellees was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Washington, 193 Wash.
451; 75 P. 2d 1017, and the case comes here on appeal
under § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code as amended, 28
U. S. C. § 344.
Sections 4(e), 5(g), (m) of Tit. II, c. 180 of Washington Laws of 1935 lay "a tax for the act or privilege of
engaging in business activities" upon every person (including corporations) "engaging within this state in any
business activity," with exceptions not now material, at
the rate of one-half of 1% of the "gross income of the
business." As the record discloses, appellant has a place
of business in the state of Washington from which it
carries on its operations in marketing, in other states and
foreign countries, apples and pears grown in Washington
and Oregon. Its entire business is that of marketing agent

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

for fruit growers and growers' co6perative organizations
in those states. As such it makes sales and deliveries of
the fruit in other states and in foreign countries, collects
the sales prices and remits the proceeds to its principals
after deducting transportation charges, certain expense
allowances and its own compensation. *In the course of
the business the fruit is shipped from the states of originapproximately 25% from Oregon-to other states and
foreign countries, sometimes directly to the purchasers,
but more often it is consigned to appellant at extra-state
points from which it is diverted by appellant to purchasers who buy the fruit while in transit, or where it is stored
pending sale. Representatives of appellant at numerous
points without the state negotiate sales of the fruit on
behalf of appellant and on its approval execute written
contracts of sale, effect delivery of the shipments to purchasers, collect the purchase price and remit it to appellant in Washington, where it is accounted for to the
shippers. In conducting the business appellant sends to
its representatives without the state daily bulletins listing
the fruit, some of which is in transit interstate and some
of which has already been placed in storage without the
state, and it expends large amounts for communications
by telephone, telegraph and cable between itself in Washington and its representatives outside the state.
The entire Washington business is carried on by appellant under contract with an incorporated federation of
twelve state coiperative growers' organizations. By this
contract appellant is given exclusive authority to sell all
apples and pears coinhig into the possession and control
of the federation as agent for its members and to collect
the proceeds of sale. Appellant undertakes to sell these
products at prices fixed by the federation, to obtain their
widest possible distribution, to attend to all traffic matters pertaining to shipment and transportation of the
fruit, to effect delivery to purchasers and to collect and

GWIN, ETC., INC. v. HENNEFORD.
434

437

Opinion of the Court.

remit the sales prices. The stipulated compensation for
the entire service is at the rate of 8 cents a box -for
apples sold and 10 cents a box for pears. According to
the bill of complaint appellees assert that appellant is
subject to the tax upon its entire gross revenue from the
business, and they threaten to collect the tax and to impose penalties for its nonpayment. But on the trial it
was stipulated that "the state makes no claim" to the
tax upon appellant's Oregon business, and we treat the
decision and decree of the state court as concerned only
with the validity of the tax measured by the amount of
fruit shipped from Washington.
The Supreme Court of Washington, conceding that the
shipment of the fruit from the state of origin to points
outside, and its sale there, involve interstate commerce,
held nevertheless that appellant's activities in Washington in promoting the commerce were a local business,
subject to state taxation as is other business carried on
in the state, and it sustained the present levy, against
attack under the commerce clause, as a tax upon those
activities, citing Ficklen v. Shelby County Taxing District, 145 U. S. 1, and American Manufacturing Co. v.
St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459.
We need not stop to consider which, if any, of appellant's activities in carrying on its business are in themselves transportation of the fruit in interstate or foreign
commerce. For the entire service for which the compensation is paid is in aid of the shipment and sale of merchandise in that commerce. Such services are within the
protection of the commerce clause, Robbins V. Shelby
County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; Caldwell v. North
Carolina, 187 U. S. 622; Real Silk Mills v. Portland,268
U. S. 325; and the only question is whether the taxation
of appellant's gross receipts derived from them is such
an interference with interstate commerce as to bring the
tax within the constitutional prohibition..

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

While appellant is engaged in business within the state,

and the state courts have sustained the tax as laid on its
activities there, the interstate commerce service which it
renders and for which the taxed compensation is paid.is
not wholly performed within the state. A substantial
part of it is outside the state where sates are negotiated
and written contracts of sale are executed, and where
deliveries and collections are made. Both the compensation and the tax laid upon it are measured by the amount
of the commerce-the number of boxes of fruit transported from Washington to purchasers elsewhere; so that
the tax, though nominally imposed upon appellant's activities in Washington, by the very method of its measurement reaches the entire interstate commerce service
rendered both within and without the state and burdens
the commerce in direct proportion to its volume.
The constitutional effect of a tax upon gross receipts
derived from participation in interstate commerce and
measured by the amount or extent of the commerce itself has been so recently and fully considered by this
Court that it is unnecessary now to elaborate the applicable principles. Western Live Stock v. Bureau of
Revenue, 303 U. S. 250; Adams Manufacturing Co. v.
Storen, 304 U. S. 307; cf. Coverdale v. Arkansas-Louisiana
Pipe Line Co., 303 U. S. 604.
It has often been recognized that "even interstate
business must pay ith way" by bearing its share of local
tax burdens, Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Richmond,
249 U. S. 252, 259, and that in consequence not every
local tax laid upon gross receipts derived from participation in interstate commerce is forbidden. See Western
Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, supra, 254 et seq., and
cases cited. But it is enough for present purposes that
under the commerce clause, in the absence of Congressional action, state taxation, whatever its form, is precluded if it discriminates against interstate commerce or

GWIN, ETC., INC. v. HENNEFORD.
434

Opinion of the Court.

undertakes to lay a privilege tax measured by gross receipts derived from activities in such commerce which
extend beyond the territorial limits of the taxing state.
Such a tax, at least when not apportioned to the activities carried on within the state, see Maine v. Grand Trunk
Ry. Co., 142 U. S. 217; Wisconsin & M. Ry. Co. v. Powers,
191 U. S. 379; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246
U. S. 450; United States Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223
U. S. 335; cf. Ficklen v. Shelby County Taxing District,
supra; American Manufacturing Co. v. St. Louis, supra,
burdens the commerce in the same manner and to the
same extent as if the exaction were for the privilege of
engaging in interstate commerce and would, if sustained,
expose it to multiple tax burdens, each measured by the
entire amount of the commerce, to which local commerce
is not subject.
Here the tax, measured by the entire volume of the
interstate commerce in which appellant participates, is
not apportioned to its activities within the state. If
Washington is free to exact such a tax, other states to
which the commerce extends may, with equal right, lay
a tax similarly measured for the privilege of conducting within their respective territorial limits the activities
there which contribute to the service. The present tax,
though nominally local, thus in its practical operation discriminates against interstate commerce, since it imposes
upon it, merely because interstate commerce is being
done, the risk of a multiple burden to which local commerce is not exposed. Adams Manufacturing Co. v.
Storen, supra, 310, 311; cf. Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U. S.
230; Philadelphia& Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
122 U. S. 326; Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. Co. v. Ti.xas,
210 U. S. 217, 225, 227; Meyer v. Wells, Fargo & Co..
223 U. S. 298; Crew Levick Co. v. Pcnznsyvlva ;,t 245
U. S. 292; Fisher's Blend Station v. State Tax Corn.,; .
sion, 297 U. S. 650; see Western Live Stock v. Bureau oJ

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

Revenue, supra, 260. Such a multiplication of state
taxes, each measured by the volume of the commerce,
would restablish the barriers to interstate trade which
it was the object of the commerce clause to remove.
Unlawfulness of the burden depends upon its nature,
measured in terms of its capacity to obstruct interstate
commerce, and not on the contingency that some other
state may first have subjected the commerce to a like
burden.
Ficklen v. Shelby County Taxing District, supra, which
the Washington Supreme Court thought sustained its
decision, upheld a state license tax imposed upon the
privilege of doing a brokerage business within the state
and measured by the gross receipts of commissions from
sales of merchandise shipped into the state for delivery
after the sales were made. Although the tax, measured
by gross receipts, to some extent burdened the commerce,
it was held that the burden did not infringe the commerce clause. Since it was apportioned exactly to the
activities taxed, all of which were intrastate, the tax
was fairly measured by the value of the local privilege or
franchise. New York, L. E. & W. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 158 U. S. 431; American Manufacturing Co. v. St.
Louis, supra; Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286
U. S. 165; Coverdale v. Arkansas-Louisiana Pipe Line
Co., supra. Neither the tax in the Ficklen case nor that
upheld in American Manufacturing Co. v. St. Louis,
supra, was open to the objection directed here to the
present tax and sustained in Adams Manufacturing Co.
v. Storen, supra, 311, that the tax is measured by gross
receipts from activities in interstate commerce conducted
both within and without the taxing state and that the
exaction is of such a character that if lawful it might be
laid to the fullest extent by the states in which the merchandise is sold as well as by those from which it is
shipped. See Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue,
supra, 260.

GWIN, ETC., INC. v. HENNEFORD.
Opinion of

434

BUTLER, J.

For more than a century, since Brown v. Maryland, 12
Wheat. 419, 445, it has been recognized that under the
commerce clause, Congress not acting, some protection is
afforded to interstate commerce against state taxation of
the privilege of engaging in it. Webber v. Virginia, 103
U. S. 344; Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460; Robbins
v. Shelby County Taxing District, supra; Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289;
International Text Book Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; Fisher's Blend Station v. State Tax Commission, supra;
Adams Manufacturing Co. v. Storen, supra. For half a
century, following the decision in Philadelphia& Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326, it has not
been doubted that state taxation of local participation in
interstate commerce, measured by the entire volume of
the commerce, is likewise foreclosed. During that period
Congress has not seen fit to exercise its constitutional
power to alter or abolish the rules thus judicially established. Instead, it has left them undisturbed, doubtless
because it has appreciated the destructive consequences
to the commerce of the nation if their protection were
withdrawn. Meanwhile Congress has accommodated its
legislation, as have the states, to these rules as an established feature of our constitutional system. There has
been left to the states wide scope for taxation of those
engaged in interstate commerce, extending to the instruments of that commerce, to net income derived from it,
and to other forms of taxation not destructive of it. See
Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, supra, 254,
et seq., and cases cited.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTIcE BUTLER,

concurring.

and I concur in the result.
Appellant is engaged exclusively in interstate commerce,
a part of which is carried on in the State of Washington.
MR. JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

For the privilege of doing that business the state statute
purports to tax its gross earnings at the rate of one-half
of one per cent. The exaction is plainly repugnant to the
commerce clause. Philadelphia & Southern S. S. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326. Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry.
Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217. Meyer v. Wells, Fargo &
Co., 223 U. S. 298, 300. New Jersey Telephone Co. v.
Tax Board, 280 U. S. 338, 346. Fisher's Blend Station v.
Tax Comm'n, 297 U. S. 650, 655-656. Puget Sound Co. v.
Tax Comm'n, 302 U. S. 90, 94. See Matson Navigation
Co. v. State Board, 297 U. S.441, 444. Reversal appropriately may be based on citation of these decisions without more.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting.

"Equality is the theme that runs through all the sections of the statute"' of the State of Washington here
considered. The statute imposes a general, non-discriminatory tax-measured by gross receipts--upon all businesses operating in that State. The intended equality of
the statute will become unequality by the judgment of
this Court here, because appellant and all other businesses
in Washington that receive income for selling Washington
products in that and other States, are exempted from the
tax. Appellant is exempted from past, present and future
payments of this tax. Not so, however, as to past, present, or future payments by Washington businesses selling
only to citizens of that State. They must bear the entire
burden of the tax. Thus the judgment here, framed to
prevent conjectured future, possible-not present and
actual-discrimination against interstate commerce,
makes of this statute with equality as its theme, an instrument of discrimination against Washington intra-state
'Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., 300 U. S. 577, 583.

GWIN, ETC., INC. v. HENNEFORD.
434

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

businesses. Appellant, a Washington agent or broker
selling Washington products in that State and elsewhere,
can now do so freed from this business tax. Washington
agents and brokers selling the same products to Washington citizens (and all other local businesses) must pay.
Washington's intra-state commerce thus will "pay its
way" 2; interstate commerce need not.
In 1933, Washington's system of taxation failed to supply adequate revenue to support activities essential to the
welfare of its people. Mounting delinquencies due to
burdensome taxes on property led the state legislature
to conclude that property taxes had to be reduced. This
reduction was made. Then, forced to seek new sources
of revenue,3 the State turned-as did many other States
faced with similar needs 4 -to a general, non-discriminatory excise tax upon business carried on in Washington,
measured by gross receipts. This general and non-discriminatory tax enabled "the common schools of the state
to operate the full school term." ' While those
engaged in interstate businesses have enjoyed the property
tax reduction in common with all Washington businesses,
the exemption from taxation here granted appellant forces
intra-state businesses to bear the entire burden of the
Cf. Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Richmond, 249 U. S.252, 259.
'Fifth Biennial Report, Tax Commission of Washington; "The
Sales Tax in the American States," Haig & Shoup (1934), p. 309
et seq.
'At least eleven States-most of them. recently-have imposed
gross income or gross sales taxes upon the privilege of doing business within their respective borders. See, "T,.x Systems of the
World," 7th ed. (CCH), pp. 153 to 156. While these laws vary in
application, several may be generally characterized as similar to

the Washington tax. See, "State Law Index" No. 5, p. 673 (Legislative Reference Service, Library of Congress); Fifth Biennial Report, supra; dissent, Adams Manufacturing Co. v. Storen, 304 U. R
307, 317, footnote 4.
'Fifth Biennial Report, supra, p. 8.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BrACK, J., dissenting.

305 U: S.

excise that replaced the repealed property taxes.' Only
intra-state business is required to contribute under this
excise to the support of the state government that affords
protection to both interstate and local business.!
Appellant, a Washington corporation, serves-under a
contract made in Washington-as sales agent for Washington apple growers. Its agents sell these Washingtongrown apples in Washington and other States. The
Washington excise tax is measured by appellant's gross income-received in Washington-and earned solely 'by
selling apples grown in and shipped from that State.8
No other State in which appellant's agents perform
sales services has imposed a similar tax upon appellant
measured by any part of its gross receipts. Such an
eventuality-if it should occur-is given the title of
"multiple taxation." And such conjectured "multiple
taxation" would be-it is said-a violation of that Clause
of the Constitution which gives Congress power to regulate commerce among the States. Thus far, Congress
has not deemed it necessary to prohibit the States from
'Cf. Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450, 453, 454;
United States Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335, 345, 347.
' Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, 137.
'While about 25% of appellant's business relates to the sale of
Oregon-grown apples, the State of Washington made no contention
that it could under its statute impose a tax upon appellant's receipts
from, the sale of Oregon-grown apples. The judgment of the State
court from which appeal was taken expressly states: "the court ...
considered ... the stipulation between the parties that the state
makes no claim to the tax upon the Oregon business of . . . [appellant] even though it clears through ... [appellant's] Seattle
office," and was "of the opinion that the business of . . . [appellant],

originating in the State of Washington, is taxable." (Italics supplied.)
In affirming this judgment the Supreme Court of Washington pointed
out that appellant was denying "the state tax commission's claim
of a tax liability on the total commission appellant receives from
the growers for Washington-grown food sold and shipped to parts
within and without this state . . ."

(Italics supplied.)

GWIN, ETC., INC. v. HENNEFORD.
434

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

levying taxes measured by gross receipts from interstate
commerce. While there are strong logical grounds upon
which this Court has based its invalidation of state laws
actually imposing unjust, unfair, and discriminatory
burdens against interstate commerce as such,D the same
grounds do not support a judicial regulation designed to
protect commerce from validly enacted non-discriminatory state taxes which do not-but may sometimeprove burdensome. With reference to the possible invalidity of another phase of this same Washington tax
program by reason of conjectured future taxes of other
States, this Court has said: "0
"A state, for many purposes, is to be reckoned as a
self-contained unit, which may frame its own system
of burdens and exemptions without heeding systems elsewhere. If there are limits to that power, there is no
need to mark them now. It will be time enough to mark
them when a taxpayer paying in the state of origin is
compelled to pay again in the state of destination."
So here, if national regulation to prevent "multiple
taxation" is within the constitutional power of this Court,
it would seem to be time enough to consider it when appellant or some other taxpayer is actually subjected to
"multiple taxation."
Unless we presuppose that the conjectured tax on appellant's gross income by another State would be valid, appellant has not even shown a hypothetical possibility of
injury. Certainly, Washington's law, enjoying a strong
presumption of constitutionality, would not be invalidated because of apprehension that another State might
lay a tax on appellant's income which is invalid and unenforceable. Any other state's tax on appellant which
Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S.
446; Darnell & Son Co. v. Memphis, 208 U. S. 113; cf. Philadelphia
& Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326, 342, 344-5.
"Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., supra, at 5S7.

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

directly discriminates against interstate commerce, could
not (together with Whshington's tax) create a "multiple
burden." This is so, because such a discriminatory tax
law, standing alone, would be held to violate the Commerce Clause. 1 Every State has the right to utilize
gross receipts as the measure of taxes which it has the
power to impose.
Washington-it is admitted-had
the power to tax appellant save for the possibility of
"multiple taxation." Since "multiple taxation" can only
result if another State passes a valid, non-discriminatory
tax law, two non-discriminatory state laws when combined become invalid and discriminatory under the Commerce Clause, as a result of the judgment here. This is
the consequence of departing from the sound position
that state laws are not invalid under the Commerce
Clause unless they actually discriminate against interstate commerce or conflict with a regulation enacted by
Congress.
Appellant is here specifically exempted from Washington's non-discriminatory "tax for the act or privilege of
engaging in business activities" in Washington because
of conjectured similar taxation of appellant inr other
States. However, the principles announced in the first
three cases relied on by the majority" would constitute
authority for exempting appellant's agents from a tax
on the privilege of engaging in the business of selling and
delivering apples "in other States to which [appellant's]
commerce extends." These principles were there applied
by this Court to invalidate taxes on the privilege of negotiating interstate sales, levied by States in which the purchasers resided. In one of the cases (Caldwell v. North
" See Note 9, supra; cf. Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton, 262 U. S.
506, 516; Pacific Co. v. Johnson, 285 U. S. 480, 493.
"New York Rapid Transit Corp. v. New York, 303 U. S. 573, 582.
"Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622; Real Silk Mills v. Portland,
268 U. S. 325.

GWIN, ETC., INC. v. HENNEFORD.
434

447

BLACK, J., dissenting.

Carolina,decided in 1903), this Court observed (pp. 6323) "that efforts to control commerce of this kind, in the
interest of the States where the purchasers reside, have
been frequently made in the form of statutes and municipal ordinances, but .

.

. such efforts have been hereto-

fore rendered fruitless by the supervising action of this
court." (Italics supplied.) The reasoning of these three
cases, however, does not support the judgment here which
invalidates a privilege tax levied, not by the State where
the apples were purchased, but by the State where the
apples were grown, where the appellant does business, and
to which all proceeds from sales made by appellant are
remitted. This is especially true since the three earlier
decisions assumed that a privilege tax imposed by an interstate business's State of residence (such as this Washington tax on appellant) would be valid. In Robbins v.
Shelby County Taxing District, supra, at page 498, the
Court-in explaining that the levy by the State of purchase of a tax on the privilege of selling would discriminate
against out of state businesses-said: "it is presumable,
.. . [that] the merchants and manufacturers of other
states in the places where they reside" are taxed for their
licensed businesses there. In showing that "the tax . . .
[was] discriminative against the merchants and manufacturers of other states" the Court also stated that ".

.

. it

not only operates as a restriction upon interstate commerce, but . . . it is intended to have that effect as one

of its principal objects." Appellant's business is exempted
here from a privilege tax in its State of residence, and approval is given authorities exempting such business from
privilege taxes in other States where appellant's activities
are carried on. Thus, these three cases stand between appellant and conjectured "multiple taxation" in other
States where its agents sell apples. The exemption of
interstate business from the type of state taxation here
involved is now made complete.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

A business engaging in activities in two or more States
should bear its part of the tax burdens of each. If valid,
non-discriminatory taxes imposed in these States create
"multiple" burdens, such "burdens" result from the political subdivisions created by our form of government.
They are the price paid for governmental protection and
maintenance in all States where the taxpayer does business. A State's taxes are not discriminatory if the State
treats those engaged in interstate and intra-state business with equality and justice. If the combined valid and
non-discriminatory taxes of many States raise a problem,
only Congress has power .to consider that problem and to
regulate with respect to it. Neither a State, nor a State
with the approval of this Court, has the constitutional
power to enact rules to adjust and govern conflicting state
interests in interstate commerce.
Legislative inquiry might disclose to Congress that the
speculative danger of injury to interstate commerce is
more than offset by the certain injury to result from depriving States of a practical method of taxation. It might
appear to Congress that the adoption of a rule against
state taxes measured by interstate commerce gross receipts would deprive the States of a potent weapon useful
in preventing evasion of state taxes.
This Court's rule would permit Washington to tax appellant's net income. But determination and collection
of taxes on net incomes are often very difficult because
corporate profits and income may be isolated or hidden by
accounting methods, holding companies and intercorporate dealings. A substantial portion of the nation's commerce is carried on by corporations with far-flung business
activities in many States. Inter-corporate relations may
assume "their rather cumbersome and involved nature for
the purpose of evading [a State] . . .tax" on income
and to "remove income from the state though still creating

GWIN, ETC., INC. v. HENNEFORD.
434

449

BrAcK, J., dissenting.

it within the state." 14 Even "profits themselves are not
susceptible of ascertainment with certainty and precision
except as the result of inquiries too minute to be practicable." 15
Congress might conclude that the States should not be
prohibited from utilizing non-discriminatory gross receipts taxes for state revenues, because there are "justifications for the gross receipts tax. . . . it has greater
certitude and facility of administration than the net income tax, an important consideration to taxpayer and
tax gatherer alike. And the volume of transactions indicated on the taxpayer's books may bear a closer relation
to the cost of governmental supervision and protection
than the annual profit. and loss statement." 18
Only a comprehensive survey and investigation of the
entire national economy-which Congress alone has power
and facilities to make-can indicate the need for, as well
as justify, restricting the taxing power of a State so as to
provide against conjectured taxation by more than one
State on identical income. A broad and deliberate legislative investigation-which no Court can make-may indicate to Congress that a wise policy for the national
economy demands that each State in which an interstate
business operates be permitted to apply a non-discrimi' Palmolive Co. v. Conway, 43 F. 2d 226, 230, cert. den., 287 U. S.
601; see Magill "Allocation of Income by Corporate Contract,"
44 Harvard Law Review 935; "Interstate Allocation of Corporate
Income for Taxing Purposes" (note) XL Yale Law Review 1273;
Huston "Allocation of Corporate Net Income for Purposes of Taxation," XXVI Ill. Law Review 725; Breckenridge, "Tax Escape by
Manipulations of Holding Company," 9 No. Car. Law Review 189;
Berle and Means, "The Modern Corporation and Private Property"
(1934), p. 202 et seq.
Cardozo, J., dissenting, Stewart Dry Goods Co. v. Lewis, 294
U. S. 550, 576.
"New York Rapid Transit Corp. v. New York, supra, 582-3.
105537°-39-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

natory tax to the gross receipts of that business either because of its size and volume or partially to offset the tendency toward centralization of the nation's business."'
Congress may find that to shelter interstate commerce in
a tax exempt refuge-in the manner of the judgment here
-is to grant that commerce a privileged status over intrastate business, contrary to the national welfare.
It is indicated, however, that Washington might have
validly apportioned its fair share of appellant's gross income for taxation. To say that a single State can-subject to supervision and approval by this Court--enact
regulations apportioning its share of the taxable income
from interstate commerce, is to transfer the constitutional
power to regulate such commerce from Congress to the
States and federal courts to which the Constitution gives
no such power. The Constitution contemplates that Congress alone shall provide for necessary national uniformity
in rules governing foreign and interstate commerce. 8
Rules to further free trade among the States by apportionment or division of taxes on such commerce, are regulations. Both the necessity for such a rule, and the
determination and enactment of a regulation to put it into
effect, call for facilities and powers possessed neither by a
State nor by the courts. A state legislature attempting
to put upon interstate business its apportioned share of
"Cf. Brandeis, J., dissenting, Liggett Co. v. Lee, 288 U. S. 517,
574: "Businesses may become as harmful to the community by excessive size, as by monopoly or the commonly recognized restraints
of trade. If the State should conclude that bigness in retail merchandising as manifested in corporate chain stores menaces the public
welfare, it might prohibit the excessive size or extent of that business . . . It was said in United States v. U. S. Steel Corp., 251 U. S.
417, 451, that the Sherman Anti-Trust Act did not forbid large
aggregations; but the power of Congress to prohibit corporations of
a size deemed excessive from engaging in interstate commerce was
not questioned."
Welton v. Missouri, supra, 279, 280.

GWIN, ETC., INC. v. HENNEFORD.
434

451

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

the burden of taxation is "faced with the impossibility of
allocating specifically the profits earned by the processes
conducted within" the borders of the State.1" If an "apportionment" between States of taxes on interstate business is to be made, it cannot be accomplished without
national inquiry and national action.
While some formulas for. apportionment devised by
States have been approved by this Court,2" others have
been invalidated.21 A formula applied by Connecticut
was held valid, 22 but a similar formula was held invalid
when adopted in North Carolina.2
The litigation which
has followed in the wake of state attempts at apportionment has confirmed, in the opinion of many, the wisdom
of the Founders in denying to the States and courts, and
granting to the Congress, exclusive power over interstate
commerce. Departures from this principle have, as here,
left intra-state businesses-usually comparatively smallto bear the entire burden of taxes invalidated as to interstate businesses, while interstate businesses-usually
conducted on a large scale-have been exempted.
Should Washington attempt an apportionment, the fate
of its formula would be uncertain until this Court passes
upon its fairness. A state's inability to obtain necessary
data and information as a basis of a formula for apportionment between itself and the other forty-seven States,
indicates in advance that its apportionment might be
invalidated. When state statutes of apportionment come
" Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, 254 U. S. 113, 121.
Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, supra; Bass, Ratcliff
& Gretton v. Tax Comm'n, 266 U. S. 271; cf. National Leather Co. v.
Massachusetts,277 U. S. 413.
' Hans Rees' Sons v. North Carolina, 283 U. S. 123; cf. Wallace
v. Hines, 253 U. S. 66; Alpha Portland Cement Co. v. Massachusetts,
268 U. S. 203.
' Underwood case, supra.
2'Rees' case, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

here this Court is unable to make the broad national inquiry necessary to reach an informed conclusion on this
question of economic policy.
But Congress has both the facilities for acquiring the
necessary data, and the constitutional power to act
upon it. "The power over commerce . . . was one of
the primary objects for which the people of America
adopted their government, and must have been contemplated in forming it." 4 The "disastrous experiences
under the Confederation when the States vied in discriminatory measures against each other" 25 united the Constitutional Convention in the conviction that some
branch of the Federal Government should have exclusive power to regulate commerce among the States and
with foreign nations. Our Constitution adopted by that
Convention divided the powers of government between
three departments, Congress, the Executive and the
Judiciary. It allotted to Congress alone the "Power
. . . to regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, . . ." Congress is the only
department of our government-state or federal-vested
with authority to determine whether "multiple taxation"
is injurious to the national economy; whether national
regulations for division of taxes measured by interstate
commerce gross receipts should or should not be adopted;
and what regulations, if any, should protect interstate
commerce from "multiple taxation." It "is the function
of this court to interpret and apply the law already enGibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 190.
The Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 398. See also Houston,
E. & W. T. Ry. Co. v. United States, (The Shreveport Case),
234 U. S. 342, 350. "The power to regulate commerce among the
several States was vested in Congress in order to secure equality
and freedom in commercial intercourse against discriminating State
24

legislation. . .

."

Railroad Co. v. Richmond, 19 Wall. 584, 589.

also, County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 697.

See

GWIN, ETC., INC. v. HENNEFORD.
434

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

acted, but not under the guise of construction to provide
a more comprehensive scheme of regulation than Congress has decided upon. Nor, in the absence of Federal
action, may we deny effect to the laws of the State enacted within the field which it is entitled to occupy until
its authority is limited through the exertion by Congress
of its paramount constitutional power." "
Until 1936,7 this Court had never stricken down-as
violating the Commerce Clause-a uniform and non-discriminatory state privilege tax measured by gross receipts,
and constituting an integral element of a comprehensive
state tax program. In Philadelphia & Southern S. S.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326, decided half a century ago and relied upon to support the judgment here,
this Court did not determine that such a general business tax-applied to all businesses within a State-could
not be measured by interstate commerce gross receipts.
On the contrary, the Court pointed out that the invalidated tax was "a tax on transportation only" (p. 345),
and that even one engaged in transportation could "like
any other citizen,... be personally taxed for the amount

of his property or estate, without regard to the source
from which it was derived, whether from commerce, or
banking, or any other employment." That,. as the Court
made clear, was "an entirely different thing from laying
a special tax upon his receipts in a particular employment." (p. 342.) Since the PhiladelphiaS. S. Co. case,
this Court has sustained many state taxes measured by
receipts both from interstate and intra-state commerce. 8
It was not until the decisions in the cases of Crew Levick
Co. v. Pennsylvania,245 U. S. 292, 296, and United States
' The Minnesota Rate Cases, supra, 433.
"' Fisher's Blend Station v. Tax Comm'n, 297 U. S. 650, see Adams
Manufacturing Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307.
' See notes 17, 18 and 19, dissent, Adams Manufacturing Co. v.
Storen, supra, p. 329.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321, 329, decided 1917
and 1918, respectively, that this Court first tentatively
announced, by way of dicta, a rule condemning state taxes
based on gross receipts from interstate commerce. The
full-blown rule under which the federal courts strike
down generally applied non-discriminatory state taxes
measured by gross receipts from interstate commerce
ripened into its present expanded form only eight months
ago (Adams Manufacturing Co. v. Storen, May 16, 1938).
This recent judicial restriction-still less than a year
old-on the power of the States to levy general gross
receipts taxes, cannot be justified or validated by claiming prestige from advanced age.
Since the Constitution grants sole and exclusive power
to Congress to regulate commerce among the States, repeated assumption of this power by the courts-even
over a long period of years--could not make this assumption of power constitutional. April 25, 1938, this
Court overruled and renounced an unconstitutional assumption of power by the federal courts based on a doctrine extending back through an unbroken line of authority to 1842.2" In overruling, it was said: "We
merely declare that in applying the doctrine [declared
unconstitutional] this Court and the lower courts have
invaded rights which in our opinion are reserved by the
Constitution to the several States." (at page 80.) A
century old rule had produced "injustice and confusion"
and "the unconstitutionality of the course pursued . . .
[had become] clear . . ." (pp. 77, 78.) That decision
rested upon the sound principle that the rule of stare
decisis cannot confer powers upon the courts which the
inexorable command of the Constitution says they shall
not have. State obedience to an unconstitutional assumption of power by the judicial branch of government,
'Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64.

GWIN, ETC., INC. v. HENNEFORD.
434

BLACK, J., dissenting.

and inaction by the Congress, cannot amend the Constitution by creating and establishing a new "feature of
our constitutional system." No provision of the Constitution authorizes its amendment in this manner.
It is essential today, as at the time of the adoption
of the Constitution, that commerce among the States and
with foreign nations be left free from discriminatory and
retaliatory burdens imposed by the States. It is of equal
importance, however, that the judicial department of
our government scrupulously observe its constitutional
limitations and that Congress alone should adopt a broad
national policy of regulation-if otherwise valid state
laws combine to hamper the free flow of commerce.
Doubtless, much confusion would be avoided if the
courts would refrain from restricting the enforcement of
valid, non-discriminatory state tax laws. Any belief
that Congress has failed to take cognizance of the problems of conjectured "multiple taxation" or "apportionment" by exerting its exclusive power over interstate
commerce, is an inadequate reason for the judicial
branch of government-without constitutional powerto attempt to perform the duty constitutionally reposed
in Congress. I would return to the rule that-except
for state acts designed to impose discriminatory burdens
on interstate commerce because it is interstate-Congress
alone must "determine how far [interstate commerce]
. . . shall be free and untrammelled, how far it shall be
burdened by duties and imposts, and how far it shall be
prohibited." '0
For these and other reasons set out elsewhere "' I believe the judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington
should be affirmed.
Welton v. Missouri, supra, 280.

'See dissent, Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307, 316.

