MISSOURI EX REL. GAINES v. CANADA.

337

Syllabus.

MISSOURI EX REL. GAINES v. CANADA, REGISTRAR OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI,
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 57.

Argued November 9, 1938.-Decided December 12, 1938.

1. The State of Missouri provides separate schools and universities
for whites and negroes. At the state university, attended by whites,
there is a course in law; at the Lincoln University, attended by
negroes, there is as yet none, but it is the duty of the curators of
that institution to establish one there whenever in their opinion
this shall be necessary and practicable, and pending such development, they are authorized to arrange for legal education of Missouri negroes, and to pay the tuition charges therefor, at law
schools in adjacent States where negroes are accepted and where the
training is equal to that obtainable at the Missouri State University. Pursuant to the State's policy of separating the races in its
educational institutions, the curators of the state university refused
to admit a negro as a student in the law school there because of his
race; whereupon he sought a mandamus, in the state courts, which
was denied. Held:
(1) That inasmuch as the curators of the state university represented the State, in carrying out its policy, their action in denying
the negro admission to the law school was state action, within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 343.
(2) The action of the State in furnishing legal education within
the State to whites while not furnishing legal education within the
State to negroes, was a discrimination repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 344.
If a State furnishes higher education to white residents, it is
bound to furnish substantially equal advantages to negro residents,
though not necessarily in the same schools.
(3) The unconstitutional discrimination is not avoided by the
purpose of the State to establish a law school for negroes whenever necessary and practicable in the opinion of the curators of the
University provided for negroes. P. 346.
(4) Nor are the requirements of the equal protection clause
satisfied by the opportunities afforded by Missouri to its negro
citizens for legal education in other States. P. 348.
The basic consideration here is not as to what sort of opportunities other States provide, or whether they are as good as those
105537°-39--22

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Counsel for Parties.

305 U. S.

in Missouri, but as to what opportunities Missouri itself furnishes
to white students and denies to negroes solely upon the ground of
color. The admissibility of laws separating the races in the enjoyment of privileges afforded by the State rests wholly upon the
equality of the privileges which the laws give to the separated
groups within the State. By the operation of the laws of Missouri
a privilege has been created for white law students which is denied
to negroes by reason of their race. The white resident is afforded
legal education within the State; the negro resident having the
same qualifications is refused it there and must go outside the State
to obtain it. That is a denial of the equality of legal right to the
enjoyment of the privilege which the State has set up, and the
provision for the payment of tuition fees in another State does
not remove the discrimination. P. 348.
(5) The obligation of the State to give the protection of equal
laws can be performed only where its laws operate, that is, within
its own jurisdiction. It is there that the equality of legal right
must be maintained. That obligation is imposed by the Constitution upon the States severally as governmental entities-each responsible for its own laws establishing the rights and duties of
persons within its boiders. P. 350.
(6) The fact that there is but a limited demand in Missouri for
the legal education of negroes does not excuse the discrimination
in favor of whites. P. 350.
(7) Inasmuch as the discrimination may last indefinitely-so
long as the curators find it unnecessary and impracticable to provide facilities for the legal education of negroes within the State,
the alternative of attendance at law schools in other States being
provided meanwhile-it can not be excused as a temporary discrimination. P. 351.
2. The state court decided this case upon the merits of the federal
question, and not upon the propriety of remedy by mandamus.
P. 352.
342 Mo. 121; 113 S. W. 2d 783, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 580, to review a judgment affirming
denial of a writ of mandamus.
Messrs. Charles H. Houston and Sidney R. Redmond,
with whom Mr. Leon A. Ransom was on the brief, for
petitioner.

MISSOURI EX REL. GAINES v. CANADA.
337

339

Argument for Respondents.

Messrs. William S. Hogsett and Fred L. Williams, with
whom Mr. Fred L. English was on the brief, for respondents.
The Supreme Court of Missouri has held that the laws
of .Missouri do not entitle the petitioner to be admitted
as a student in the University of Missouri, and that those
laws provide for the separation of the white and negro
races for the purpose of higher education. The second
part of the decision, fully recognizing petitioner's constitutional right to equal facilities for legal education,
finds as a fact that the State has accorded him equal
facilities-which finding of fact, supported as it is by
strong and uncontradicted evidence, is binding upon this
Court. The absence of a substantial federal question is
manifest.
Petitioner refused to avail himself of the facilities for
a legal education provided by the State. If he had applied to the Lincoln University curators for a legal education, it is to be presumed that they would have given it
to him in accordance with their mandatory duty under
the Act. His refusal to avail himself of his legal rights
is fatal to his case.
The State of Missouri has not denied petitioner the
equal protection of the laws by excluding him from the
School of Law of the University of Missouri.
Separation of the white and negro races for purposes of
education does not infringe the rights of either race guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Social equality is not a legal question and can not be
settled by law or by the judgments of courts.
The facilities for legal education available to petitioner
under the Lincoln University Act (§§ 9616 to 9624, R. S.
Mo., 1929) are substantially equal to the facilities
afforded white students in the School of Law of the University of Missouri.

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Respondents.

305 U. S.

In separating the races, and in determining the particular facilities to be used by the two races, the State is
allowed a large measure of discretion; ard the courts will
not interfere with the exercise of that discretion as unconstitutional, except in case of a very clear and unmistakable disregard of rights secured by the Constitution of
the United States.
The Lincoln University board of curators are not
merely authorized, but are required, to reorganize the
institution so that it shall afford opportunity to negroes
equal to that accorded to white students; and, pending
the full development of Lincoln University, are required,
to arrange for the attendance of negro residents of the
State at the university of any adjacent State, to take any
course of study provided at the University of Missouri
but not at Lincoln University; and they are not merely
authorized, but are required, to pay the reasonable tuition
fees for such attendance (§ 9622, R. S. Mo., 1929). The
duty to do these things is mandatory and peremptory.
The responsibility and duty to caxry out this plan has
been placed by law-not upon these respondents, the
curators of the University of Missouri-but upon the
curators of Lincoln University.
If petitioner pursues his legal rights and makes application to the Lincoln University curators for an education
in the law, it will then become their mandatory duty
(a) to establish a school of law in Lincoln University and
to admit petitioner as a student therein; and (b) pending
that, and as a temporary matter, to arrange for the attendance of petitioner in one or another of the schools
of law already established in the Universities of Kansas,
Nebraska, Iowa or Illinois (all of which admit negroes),
and to pay his tuition fees while he is attending such
school.

MISSOURI EX REL. GAINES v. CANADA.
337

341

Argument for Respondents.

Substantial equality and not identity of school facilities is what is guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The fact that in order to avail himself of legal education in any one of the four law schools in adjacent states,
the petitioner (a grown man) would be put to the necessity of traveling farther from his home in St. Louis than
the distance from St. Louis to Columbia (where the University of Missouri is located), is a mere matter of inconvenience, which must necessarily arise as an incident
to any classification or any school system; and the court
below held that this furnishes no substantial ground of
complaint by petitioner. Petitioner's expense of travel
to any of these adjacent state universities would be no
greater than the traveling expense of students living in
various parts of Missouri, who attend the University of
Missouri at Columbia.
The question of the constitutionality of the provision
for out-of-state instruction is, strictly speaking, not presented for review, since petitioner never made any
application to Lincoln University curators for the establishment of a law course in that institution; and, therefore, it is impossible to know whether the curators of
Lincoln University, had he knocked at the door, would
have immediately established a law course there, rendering it unnecessary for him to go out-of-state for a legal
education.
Mandamus against respondents was not a proper remedy, because petitioner must exhaust his administrative
remedies before seeking extraordinary relief; and this he
failed to do. Petitioner is in no position to appeal to
the courts for any remedy, and certainly not for mandamus, to compel the board of curators of Lincoln University to provide him with the opportunity for legal

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

education which he says he desires, but which he has
never requested from the authorities charged with the
duty to provide it for him. A fortiori,he could not appeal
to the courts for mandamus to compel the board of
curators of the University of Missouri to provide him
with a legal education which he has not requested from
the authorities charged with the duty to provide it for
him.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Petitioner Lloyd Gaines, a negro, was refused admission
to the School of Law at the State University of Missouri. Asserting that this refusal constituted a denial
by the State of the equal protection of the laws in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution, petitioner brought this action for mandamus
to compel the curators of the University to admit him.
On final hearing, an alternative writ was quashed and a
peremptory writ was denied by the Circuit Court. The
Supreme Court of the State affirmed the judgment. 113
S. W. 2d 783. We granted certiorari, October 10, 1938.
Petitioner is a citizen of Missouri. In August, 1935, he
was graduated with the degree of Bachelor of Arts at
the Lincoln University, an institution maintained by the
State of Missouri for the higher education of negroes.
That University has no law school. Upon the filing of
his application for admission to the law school of the
University of Missouri, the registrar advised him to communicate with the president of Lincoln University and
the latter directed petitioner's attention to § 9622 of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri (1929), providing as
follows:
"Sec. 9622. May arrange for attendance at university
of any adjacent state-Tuition fees.-Pending the full
development of the Lincoln university, the board of

MISSOURI EX REL. GAINES v. CANADA.
337

343

Opinion of the Court.

curators shall have the authority to arrange for the attendance of negro residents of the state of Missouri at
the university of any adjacent state to take any course
or to study any subjects provided for at the state university of Missouri, and which are not taught at the
Lincoln university and to pay the reasonable tuition fees
for such attendance; provided that whenever the board
of curators deem it advisable they shall have the power
to open any necessary school or department. (Laws
1921, p. 86, § 7.)"
Petitioner was advised to apply to the State Superintendent of Schools for aid under that statute. It was
admitted on the trial that petitioner's "work and credits
at the Lincoln University would qualify him for admission to the School of Law of the University of Missouri
if he were found otherwise eligible." He was refused
admission upon the ground that it was "contrary to the
constitution, laws and public policy of the State to admit
a negro as a student in the University of Missouri."
It appears that there are schools of law in connection
with the state universities of four adjacent States, Kansas,
Nebraska, Iowa and Illinois, where nonresident negroes
are admitted.
The clear and definite conclusions of the state court
in construing the pertinent state legislation narrow the
issue. The action of the curators, who are representatives
of the State in the management of the state university
(R. S. Mo., § 9625), must be regarded as state action.1
The state constitution provides that separate free public
schools shall be established for the education of children
of African descent (Art. XI, § 3), and by statute separate
high school facilities are supplied for colored students
equal to those provided for white students (R. S. Mo.,
1Ex

parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 346, 347; Neal v. Delaware, 103

U. S. 370, 397; Carter v. Texas, 177 U. S. 442, 447; Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587, 589.

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

§§ 9346-9349). While there is no express constitutional
provision requiring that the white and negro races be separated for the purpose of higher education, the state court
on a comprehensive review of the state statutes held that
it was intended to separate the white and negro races for
that purpose also. Referring in particular to Lincoln
University, the court deemed it to be clear "that the Legislature intended to bring the Lincoln University up to
the standard of the University of Missouri, and give to
the whites and negroes an equal opportunity for higher
education-the whites at the University of Missouri, and
the negroes at Lincoln University." Further, the court
concluded that the provisions of § 9622 (above quoted)
to the effect that negro residents "may attend the university of any adjacent State with their tuition paid,
pending the full development of Lincoln University,"
made it evident "that the Legislature did not intend that
negroes and whites should attend the same university in
this State." In that view it necessarily followed that the
curators of the University of Missouri acted in accordance with the policy of the State in denying petitioner
admission to its School of Law upon the sole ground of
his race.
In answering petitioner's contention that this discrimination constituted a denial of his constitutional right, the
state court has fully recognized the obligation of the
State to provide negroes with advantages for higher education substantially equal to the advantages afforded to
white students. The State has sought to fulfill that obligation by furnishing equal facilities in separate schools, a
method the validity of which has been sustained by our
decisions. Plessy v. Ferguson,163 U. S. 537, 544; McCabe
v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 235 U. S. 151, 160; Gong
Lum v. Rice, 275 U. S. 78, 85, 86. Compare Cumming v.
Board of Education, 175 U. S. 528, 544, 545. Respondents' counsel have appropriately emphasized the special

MISSOURI EX REL. GAINES v. CANADA.
337

345

Opinion of the Court.

solicitude of the State for the higher education of negroes
as shown in the establishment of Lincoln University, a
state institution well conducted on a plane with the University of Missouri so far as the offered courses are concerned. It is said that Missouri is a pioneer in that field
and is the only State in the Union which has established
a separate university for negroes on the same basis as the
state university for white students. But, commendable
as is that action, the fact remains that instruction in law
for negroes is not now afforded by the State, either at
Lincoln University or elsewhere within the State, and that
the State excludes negroes from the advantages of the
law school it has established at the University of
Missouri.
It is manifest that this discrimination, if not relieved
by the provisions we shall presently discuss, would constitute a denial of equal protection. That was the conclusion of the Court of Appeals of Maryland in circumstances substantially similar in that aspect. University
of Maryland v. Murray, 169 Md. 478; 182 A. 590. It there
appeared that the State of Maryland had "undertaken
the function of education in the law" but had "omitted
students of one race from the only adequate provision
made for it, and omitted them solely because of their
color"; that if those students were to be offered "equal
treatment in the performance of the function, they must,
at present, be admitted to the one school provided." Id.,
p. 489. A provision for scholarships to enable negroes
to attend colleges outside the State, mainly for the purpose of professional studies, was found to be inadequate
(Id., pp. 485, 486) and the question, "whether with aid
in any amount it is sufficient to send the negroes outside
the State for legal education," the Court of Appeals found
it unnecessary to discuss. Accordingly, a writ of mandamus to admit the applicant was issued to the officers and

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

regents of the University of Maryland as the agents of
the State entrusted with the conduct of that institution.
The Supreme Court of Missouri in the instant case has
distinguished the decision in Maryland upon the
grounds-(1) that in Missouri, but not in Maryland, there
is "a legislative declaration of a purpose to establish a
law school for negroes at Lincoln University whenever
necessary or practical"; and (2) that, "pending the estabishment of such a school, adequate provision has been
made for the legal education of negro students in recognized schools outside of this State." 113 S. W. 2d, p.
791.
As to the first ground, it appears that the policy of
establishing a law school at Lincoln University has not
yet ripened into an actual establishment, and it cannot
be said that a mere declaration of purpose, still unfulfilled,
is enough. The provision for legal education at Lincoln
is at present entirely lacking. Respondents' counsel urge
that if, on the date when petitioner applied for admission
to the University of Missouri, he had instead applied to
the curators of Lincoln University it would have been
their duty to establish a law school; that this "agency of
the State," to which he should have applied, was "specifically charged with the mandatory duty to furnish him
what he seeks." We do not read the opinion of the Supreme Court as construing the state statute to impose
such a "mandatory duty" as the argument seems to assert.
The state court quoted the language of § 9618, R. S. Mo.
1929, set forth in the margin,' making it the mandatory
'Section 9618, R. S. Mo. 1929, is as follows:
"Sec. 9618. Board of curators authorized to reorganize.-The board
of curators of the Lincoln university shall be authorized and required
to reorganize said institution so that it shall afford to the negro people
of the state opportunity for training up to the standard furnished at
the state university of Missouri whenever necessary and practicable
in their opinion. To this end the board of curators shall be authorized

MISSOURI EX REL. GAINES v. CANADA.
337

347

Opinion of the Court.

duty of the board of curators to establish a law school in
Lincoln University "whenever necessary and practicable
in their opinion." This qualification of their duty, explicitly stated in the statute, manifestly leaves it to the
judgment of the curators to decide when it will be necessary and practicable to establish a law school, and the
state court so construed the statute. Emphasizing the
discretion of the curators, the court said:
"The statute was enacted in 1921. Since its enactment no negro, not even appellant, has applied to Lincoln
University for a law education. This fact demonstrates
the wisdom of the legislature in leaving it to the judgment of the board of curators to determine when it would
be necessary or practicable to establish a law school for
negroes at Lincoln University. Pending that time adequate provision is made for the legal education of negroes in the university of some adjacent State, as heretofore pointed out." 113 S.W. 2d p. 791.
The state court has not held that it would have been the
duty of the curators to establish a law school at Lincoln
University for the petitioner on his application. Their
duty, as the court defined it, would have been either to
supply a law school at Lincoln University as provided in
§ 9618 or to furnish him the opportunity to obtain his
legal training in another State as provided in § 9622.
Thus the law left the curators free to adopt the latter
course. The state court has not ruled or intimated that
their failure or refusal to establish a law school for a very
few students, still less for one student, would have been
an abuse of the discretion with which the curators were
entrusted. And, apparently, it was because of that discreto purchase necessary additional land, erect necessary additional buildings, to provide necessary additional equipment, and to locate, in
the county of Cole the respective units of the university where, in
their opinion, the various schools will most effectively promote the
purposes of this article. (Laws of 1921, p. 86, § 3.)"

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

tion, and of the postponement which its exercise in accordance with the terms of the statute would entail until
necessity and practicability appeared, that the state court
considered and upheld as adequate the provision for the
legal education of negroes, who were citizens of Missouri,
in the universities of adjacent States. We may put on
one side respondent's contention that there were funds
available at Lincoln University for the creation of a law
department and the suggestions with respect to the number of instructors who would be needed for that purpose
and the cost of supplying them. The president of Lincoln
University did not advert to the existence or prospective
use of funds for that purpose when he advised petitioner
to apply to the State Superintendent of Schools for aid
under § 9622. At best, the evidence to which argument
as to available funds is addressed admits of conflicting
inferences, and the decision of the state court did not hinge
on any such matter. In the light of its ruling we must
regard the question whether the provision for the legal
education in other States of negroes resident in Missouri
is sufficient to satisfy the constitutional requirement of
equal protection, as the pivot upon which this case
turns.
The state court stresses the advantages that are afforded by the law schools of the adjacent States,-Kansas,
Nebraska, Iowa and Illinois,-which admit non-resident
negroes. The court considered that these were schools of
high standing where one desiring to practice law in Missouri can get "as sound, comprehensive, valuable legal
education" as in the University of Missouri; that the
system of education in the former is the same as that
in the latter and is designed to give the students a basis
for the practice of law in any State where the AngloAmerican system of law obtains; that the law school of
the University of Missouri does not specialize in Missouri
law and that the course of study and the case books used

MISSOURI EX REL. GAINES v. CANADA.
337

349

Opinion of the Court.

in the five schools are substantially identical. Petitioner
insists that for one intending to practice in Missouri there
are special advantages in attending a law school there,
both in relation to the opportunities for the particular
study of Missouri law and for the observation of the local
courts,' and also in view of the prestige of the Missouri
law school among the citizens of the State, his prospective clients. Proceeding with its examination of relative
advantages, the state court found that the difference in
distances to be traveled afforded no substantial ground
of complaint and that there was an adequate appropriation to meet the full tuition fees which petitioner would
have to pay.
We think that these matters are beside the point. The
basic consideration is not as to what sort of opportunities
other States provide, or whether they are as good as those
in Missouri, but as to what opportunities Missouri itself
furnishes to white students and denies to negroes solely
upon the ground of color. The admissibility of laws
separating the races in the enjoyment of privileges afforded by the State rests wholly upon the equality of the
privileges which the laws give to the separated groups
within the State. The question here is not of a duty of
the State to supply legal training, or of the quality of the
training which it does supply, but of its duty when it
provides such training to furnish it to the residents of
the State upon the basis of an equality of right. By the
operation of the laws of Missouri a privilege has been
created for white law students which is denied to negroes
by reason of their race. The white resident is afforded
legal education within the State; the negro resident having the same qualifications is refused it there and must go
outside the State to obtain it. That is a denial of the
equality of legal right to the enjoyment of the privilege
'See University of Maryland v. Murray, 169 Md. 478, 486.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

which the State has set up, and the provision for the payment of tuition fees in another State does not remove the
discrimination.
The equal protection of the laws is "a pledge of the protection of equal laws." Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.
356, 369. Manifestly, the obligation of the State to give
the protection of equal laws can be performed only where
its laws operate, that is, within its own jurisdiction. It
is there that the equality of legal right must be maintained. That obligation is imposed by the Constitution
upon the States severally as governmental entities,each responsible for its own laws establishing the rights
and duties of persons within its borders. It is an obligation the burden of which cannot be cast by one State
upon another, and no State can be excused from performance by what another State may do or fail to do.
That separate responsibility of each State within its own
sphere is of the essence of statehood maintained under
our dual system. It seems to be implicit in respondents'
argument that if other States did not provide courses for
legal education, it. would nevertheless be the constitutional duty of Missouri when it supplied such courses
for white students to make equivalent provision for
negroes. But that plain duty would exist because it
rested upon the State independently of the action of
other States. We find it impossible to conclude that what
otherwise would be an unconstitutional discrimination,
with respect to the legal right to the enjoyment of opportunities within the State, can be justified by requiring
resort to opportunities elsewhere. That resort may mitigate the inconvenience of the discrimination but cannot
serve to validate it.
Nor can we regard the fact that there is but a limited
demand in Missouri for the legal education of negroes
as excusing the discrimination in favor of whites. We
had occasion to consider a cognate question in the case

MISSOURI EX REL. GAINES v. CANADA.
337

351

Opinion of the Court.

of McCabe v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., supra. There
the argument was advanced, in relation to the provision
by a carrier of sleeping cars, dining and chair cars, that
the limited demand by negroes justified the State in permitting the furnishing of such accommodations exclusively for white persons. We found that argument to be
without merit. It made, we said, the constitutional right
"depend upon the number of persons who may be discriminated against, whereas the essence of the constitutional right is that it is a personal one. Whether or not
particular facilities shall be provided may doubtless be
conditioned upon there being a reasonable demand therefor, but, if facilities are provided, substantial equality
of treatment of persons traveling under like conditions
cannot be refused. It is the individual who is entitled
to the equal protection of the laws, and if he is denied.
by a common carrier, acting in the matter under the
authority of. a state law, a facility or convenience in
the course of his journey which under substantially the
same circumstances is furnished to another traveler, he
may properly complain that his constitutional privilege
has been invaded." Id., pp. 161, 162.
Here, petitioner's right was a personal one. It was as an
individual that he was entitled to the equal protection of
the laws, and the State was bound to furnish him within
its borders facilities for legal education substantially equal
to those which the State there afforded for persons of the
white race, whether or not other negroes sought the same
opportunity.
It is urged, however, that the provision for tuition outside the State is a temporary one,-that it is intended to
operate merely pending the establishment of a law department for negroes at Lincoln University. While in
that sense the discrimination may be termed temporary,
it may nevertheless continue for an indefinite period by
reason of the discretion given to the curators of Lincoln

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

University and the alternative of arranging for tuition in
other States, as permitted by the state law as construed
by the state court, so long as the curators find it unnecessary and impracticable to provide facilities for the legal
instruction of negroes within the State. In that view, we
cannot regard the discrimination as excused by what is
called its temporary character.
We do not find that the decision of the state court turns
on any procedural question. The action was for mandamus, but it does not appear that the remedy would have
been deemed inappropriate if the asserted federal right
had been sustained. In that situation the remedy by
mandamus was found to be a proper one in University of
Marylandv. Murray,supra. In the instant case, the state
court did note that petitioner had not applied to the management of Lincoln University for legal training. But, as
we have said, the state court did not rule that it would have
been the duty of the curators to grant such an application,
but on the contrary took the view, as we understand it,
that the curators were entitled under the state law to refuse such an application and in its stead to provide for
petitioner's tuition in an adjacent State. That conclusion
presented the federal question as to the constitutional
adequacy of such a provision while equal opportunity for
legal training within the State was not furnished, and this
federal question the state court entertained and passed
upon. We must conclude that in so doing the court denied the federal right which petitioner set up and the
question as to the correctness of that decision is before
us. We are of the opinion that the ruling was error, and
that petitioner was entitled to be admitted to the law
school of the State University in the absence of other and
proper provision for his legal training within the State.
The judgment of the Supreme Court, of Missouri is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

MISSOURI EX REL. GAINES v. CANADA.
337

McREYNOLDS,

353

J., dissenting.

Separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS.

Considering the disclosures of the recotd, the Supreme
Court of Missouri arrived at a tenable conclusion and its
judgment should be affirmed. That court well understood
the grave difficulties of the situation and rightly refused
to upset the settled legislative policy of the State by
directing a mandamus.
In Cumming v. Richmond County Board of Education,
175 U. S. 528, 545, this Court through Mr. Justice Harlan
declared-"The education of the people in schools maintained by state taxation is a matter belonging to the
respective States, and any interference on the part of
Federal authority with the management of such schools
cannot be justified except in the case of a clear and unmistakable disregard of rights secured by the supreme law
of the land." Gong Lum v. Rice, 275 U. S. 78, 85-opinion by Mr. Chief Justice Taft-asserts: "The right
and power of the state to regulate the method of providing for the education of its youth at public expense is
clear."
For a long time Missouri has acted upon the view that
the best interest of her people demands separation of
whites and negroes in schools. Under the opinion just
announced, I presume she may abandon her law school
and thereby disadvantage her white citizens without improving petitioner's opportunities for legal instruction;
or she may break down the settled practice concerning
separate schools and thereby, as indicated by experience,
damnify both races. Whether by some other course it
may be possible for her to avoid condemnation is matter
for conjecture.
The State has offered to provide the negro petitioner
opportunity for study of the law-if perchance that is
the thing really desired-by paying his tuition at some
nearby school of good standing. This is far from unmistakable disregard of his rights and in the circum105537 °-39-----23

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.

354

Syllabus.

305 U. S.

stances is enough to satisfy any reasonable demand for
specialized training. It appears that never before has a
negro applied for admission to the Law School and none
has ever asked that Lincoln University provide legal
instruction.
The problem presented obviously is a difficult and highly practical one. A fair effort to solve it has been made
by offering adequate opportunity for study when-sought
in good faith. The State should not be unduly hampered
through theorization inadequately restrained by experience.
This proceeding commenced in April, 1936. Petitioner
then twenty-four years old asked mandamus to compel
his admission to the University in September, 1936, notwithstanding plain legislative inhibition. Mandamus is
not a writ of right but is granted only in the court's discretion upon consideration of all the circumstances.
Duncan Townsite Co. v. Lane, 245 U. S. 308, 311; United
States ex rel. Arant v. Lane, 249 U. S. 367, 371.
The Supreme Court of Missouri did not consider the
propriety of granting the writ under the theory of the law
now accepted here. That, of course, will be matter open
for its consideration upon return of the cause.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER concurs in

the above views.

EX PARTE CENTURY INDEMNITY CO.
No.

-,

Original.

Decided December 12, 1938.

1. Upon a rule to show cause why a writ of mandamus should not
issue requiring judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals to consider
certain assignments of error which that court had declined to consider upon a ground which this Court, upon review, adjudged insufficient, it is an answer that another and sufficient ground for
rejecting the assignments is revealed by the record. P. 355.

