364

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

305 U. S.

FORD MOTOR CO. v. NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 182 and 183.

Argued December 14, 1938.-Decided January
3, 1939.

1. The authority to modify or set aside its findings and order, conferred on the National Labor Relations Board by § 10 (d) of
the National Labor Relations Act, ends with the filing of the
transcript of its record in the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 368.
2. Upon the filing of such transcript in connection with the Board's
petition for enforcement of its order, and notice, the Circuit Court
of Appeals acquires jurisdiction under § 10 (e). Id.
3. Under § 10 (f) of the Act the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is of the same character and scope in a proceeding for
review brought by a person aggrieved by an order of the Board
as the jurisdiction which the court has in a proceeding instituted
by the Board for enforcement. P. 369.
4. Where the Board has petitioned for enforcement under § 10 (e)
and the jurisdiction of the court has attached, the respondent is
entitled to raise all pertinent questions and to obtain any affirmative relief that is appropriate without seeking independent review
under § 10 (f); and permission to the Board to withdraw its petition rests in the sound discretion of the court, to be exercised in
the light of the circumstances of the particular case. Id.
5. Where the Board sought enforcement of its order under § 10 (e),
and the party proceeded against petitioned for review under
§ 10 (f), seeking affirmative relief and setting up substantially
the same grounds in its answer to the Board's petition and in its
own petition, held:
(1) That the court had jurisdiction to retain the transcript
filed by the Board, while permitting withdrawal of the Board's
petition, and to order that the transcript be filed in the proceeding for review. In re National Labor Relations Board, 304 U. S.
486, distinguished. P. 370.
(2) On the petition for review, the Board could seek, not merely
a denial of that petition, but also enforcement of its order. P. 371.
(3) The court acquired exclusive jurisdiction to deal with the
order. P. 372.

FORD MOTOR CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
364

365

Opinion of the Court.

6. Upon a petition to review an order of the National Labor Relations Board, where it was contended that the order was invalid
for want of a full and fair hearing and because the Board had not
itself considered the evidence but had adopted as its own a decision prepared by subordinates, without affording the petitioner
any opportunity to be heard thereon,-the Circuit Court of Appeals properly granted the Board's motion to remand the cause
to the Board for the purpose of setting aside its findings and
order, issuing proposed findings, with permission to the. parties
to file exceptions and present argument, and thereafter making its
decision and order upon a reconsideration of the entire case.
P. 372.
This purpose, expressed in the Board's motion and specified in
the order of remand, qualifies that order and binds the Board.
It was not necessary for the court to consider other objections to
the Board's conduct of the proceeding, as the setting aside of the
findings and order would carry with it the opportunity for reconsideration and the making of a new record. Pp. 372-375.
99 F. 2d 1003, 1009, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 585, to review orders of the court

below, one granting a motion of the above-named Board

to withdraw a petition for enforcement under the National Labor Relations Act, the other remanding the cause
to the Board on the Board's motion.
Mr. Alfred McCormack, with whom Messrs. Frederick
H. Wood, Louis J. Columbo, and Thomas T. Cooke were
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Charles Fahy, with whom Solicitor General Jackson, and Messrs. CharlesA. Horsky and Robert B. Watts
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This case presents the question of the propriety of the
action of the Circuit Court of Appeals in remanding a
cause to the National Labor Relations Board forthe purpose of setting aside its findings and order, and issuing

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

proposed findings, and making its decision and order upon
reconsideration.
The National Labor Relations Board, on December 22,
1937, entered an order against petitioner directing it to
desist from described practices ald to offer reinstatement,
with back pay, to certain discharged employees.
On January 7, 1938, the Board filed its petition in No.
182 (called the Board's proceeding) in the Circuit Court
of Appeals, seeking the enforcement of its order, and at
the same time filed the transcript of the record.
On April 4, 1938, petitioner asked leave to adduce additional evidence. On April 11, 1938, petitioner filed its
answer to the Board's petition, alleging that the order was
invalid and asking that it be set aside upon the grounds,
among others, that the Board had failed to accord petitioner a full and fair hearing, and that the Board had not
itself considered the evidence but had adopted as its own
a decision prepared by its subordinates without affording
petitioner any opportunity to be heard thereon. It was
also alleged that the findings were not supported by the
evidence. Petitioner moved for a commission to take the
depositions of witnesses, and served interrogatories upon
the Board.
On May 2, 1938, after our decision in Morgan v. United
States (April 25, 1938), 304 U. S. 1, the Board filed a motion for leave to withdraw its petition for enforcement
and the transcript of record, without prejudice. The
Board stated that, should its motion be granted, it would
set aside its order, would issue proposed findings, with
permission to the parties to file exceptions and present
argument, and thereafter make its decision and order.
On May 5, 1938, the court granted the Board's motion.
On May 6, 1938, the Board served notice on petitioner of
its intention to vacate its findings and order of December
22, 1937, but later in view of petitioner's objection held
that action under advisement. On May 9, 1938, the or-

FORD MOTOR CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
364

367

Opinion of the Court.

der of May 5th was amended so far as it permitted the
withdrawal of the transcript of record and the court directed that the transcript remain on file. On June 2,
1938, the Board purported to withdraw its petition for
enforcement. On June 4, 1938, the petitioner moved to
vacate the order of May 5th. That motion. was denied
on June 10, 1938, with a stay of the withdrawal of the
Board's petition pending application here for writ of certiorari.
Meanwhile, on May 4, 1938, the petitioner filed with
the Circuit Court of Appeals in No. 183 (called the petitioner's proceeding) its petition asking the court to review and set aside the Board's order of December 22,
1937. On May 9, 1938, the court directed that the transcript of record filed in the Board's proceeding should be
deemed to have been filed in the petitioner's proceeding
to review as of the date of May 4th. On June 2, 1938,
the Board filed a motion to vacate that order of May 9th.
At the same time the Board moved that in the event of
a denial of that motion the case should be remanded to
the Board for further proceedings.
On June 10, 1938, the court entered its order denying
certain motions of the petitioner for leave to amend its
petition for review, denying the Board's motion to vacate
the order of May 9th, and granting the Board's motion
of June 2d"to remand this cause to the National Labor Relations
Board for the purpose of setting aside its findings and order of December 22, 1937, and issuing proposed findings,
and making its decision and order upon a reconsideration
of the entire case."
Because of the importance of the questions presented
in relation to the scope of the court's jurisdiction and its
appropriate exercise, certiorari was granted to review
the order of May 5th, granting the Board's motion to
withdraw its petition for enforcement and the order of

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

June 10th, remanding the cause as above stated. October
10, 1938.
First. The authority conferred upon the Board by
§ 10 (d) 1 of the National Labor Relations Act, to modify
or set aside its findings and order, ended with the filing
in court of -the transcript of record. Upon the filing of
the transcript in connection witT the Board's petition
for enforcement, and notice, the Circuit Court of Appeals
had jurisdiction of the proceeding as provided in § 10 (e)
of the Act, as follows:
"Upon such filing [of the transcript], the court shall cause
notice thereof to be served upon such person, and thereupon shall have jurisdiction of the proceeding and of the
question determined therein, and shall have power to
grant such temporary relief or restraining order as it
deems just and proper, and to make and enter upon the
pleadings, testimony, and proceedings set forth in such
transcript a decree enforcing, modifying, and enforcing as
so modified, or setting aside in whole or il part the order
of the Board. . . . The findings of the Board as to the
facts, if supported by evidence, shall be conclusive. If
either party shall apply to the court for leave to adduce
additional evidence and shall show to the satisfaction of
the court that such additional evidence is material and
that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to adduce such evidence in the hearing before the Board, its
member, agent, or agency, the court may order such additional evidence to be taken before the Board, its member, agent, or agency, and to be made a part of the transcript. The Board may modify its findings as to the
I Section 10 (d) provides:
"(d) Until a transcript of the record ina case shall have been filed
in a court, as hereinafter provided, the Board may at any time, upon
reasonable notice and in such manner as it shall deem proper, modify
or set aside, in whole or in part, any finding or order made or issued
by it." 49 Stat. 454.

FORD MOTOR CO. v. LABOR BOARD.

369

Opinion of the Court.

364

facts, or make new findings, by reason of additional evidence so taken and filed, and it shall file such modified
or new findings, which, if supported by evidence, shall be
conclusive, and shall file its recommendations, if any, for
the modification or setting aside of its original order.
The jurisdiction of the court shall be exclusive and its
judgment and decree shall be final, except that the same
shall be subject to review . . ." 49 Stat. 454, 455.
Under § 10 (f) the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is of the same character and scope in a proceeding for review brought by a person aggrieved by an order
of the Board as the jurisdiction which the court has in
a proceeding instituted by the Board for enforcement. 2
While § 10 (f) assures to any aggrieved person opportunity to contest the Board's order, it does not require
an unnecessary duplication of proceedings. The aim of
the Act is to attain simplicity and directness both in the
administrative procedure and on judicial review. Where
the Board has petitioned for enforcement under § 10 (e)
2 Section

10 (f) provides:
"(f) Any person aggrieved by a final order of the Board granting
or denying in whole or in part the relief sought may obtain a review
of such order in any circuit court of appeals of the United States in
the circuit wherein the unfair labor practice in question was alleged
to have been engaged in ... by filing in such court a written
petition praying that the order of the Board be modified or set aside.
A copy of such petition shall be forthwith served upon the Board,
and thereupon the aggrieved party shall file in the court a transcript
of the entire record in the proceeding, certified by the Board, including the pleading and testimony upon which the order complained
of was entered and the findings and order of the Board. Upon such
filing, the court shall proceed in the same manner as in the case of an
application by the Board under subsection (e), and shall have the
same exclusive jurisdiction to grant to the Board such temporary
relief or restraining order as it deems just and proper, and in like
manner to make and enter a decree enforcing, modifying, and
enforcing as so modified, or setting aside in whole or in part the order
of the Board; and the findings of the Board as to the facts, if supported by evidence, shall in like manner be conclusive." 49 Stat. 455.
105537-39-

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

and the jurisdiction of the court has attached, no separate
proceeding is needed on the part of the person thus
brought into the court. The breadth of the jurisdiction
conferred upon the court to set aside or modify in whole
or in part the Board's order, or to permit new evidence
to be taken, necessarily implies that the party proceeded
against is entitled to raise all pertinent questions and to
obtain any affirmative relief that is appropriate. Here,
petitioner in the Board's proceeding had sought affirmative relief and had taken steps to establish that right.
Considering the scope and purpose of the jurisdiction of
the court in a proceeding under § 10 (e), and the position
and rights of the person proceeded against, we are unable
to conclude that the Board has an absolute right to withdraw its petition at its pleasure. We think that permission to withdraw must rest in the sound discretion of the
court to be exercised in the light of the circumstances
of the particular case.'
While in the instant case there are two proceedings,
separately carried on the docket, they were essentially
one so far as any question as to the legality of the Board's
order was concerned. Petitioner's answer in the Board's
proceeding presented substantially the same objections
as those raised in petitioner's proceeding for review. The
present contentions of the parties are largely addressed
to procedural distinctions, but if we follow tLc course of
the two proceedings we find that there is really but one
ultimate question and that is with respect to the court's
"See Cooper v. Lewis, 2 Phillips, Ch. 177, 181; Bank v. Rose, 1
Rich Eq., 292, 294; Stevens v. The Railroads,4 F. 97, 105; Chicago
& Alton R. Co. v. Union Rolling Mill Co., 109 U. S. 702, 713-715;
City of Detroit v. Detroit City Ry. Co., 55 F. 569, 572, 573; Pullman's
Palace Car Co. v. Central TransportationCo., 171 U. S. 138, 146; Ex
parte Skinner & Eddy Corp., 265 U. S. 86, 93, 94; United Motors
Service v. Tropic-Aire, 57 F. 2d 479, 481, 482; Jones v. Securities &
Exchange Comm'n, 298 U. S. 1, 19, 20.

FORD MOTOR CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
364

371

Opinion of the Court.

final action in remanding the cause to the Board for
further proceedings.
Before the court on May 5th granted the Board's motion to withdraw its petition, the other proceeding had
been instituted by the filing of the petition for review on
May 4th. That proceeding was taken by petitioner as a
person aggrieved by the order of December 22, 1937, and
was doubtless prompted by the Board's motion to withdraw its own petition. As the transcript of the record of
the administrative proceeding had already been certified
and filed, it was within the court's control. The order of
May 5th was amended on May 9th so as to preclude the
withdrawal of the transcript, and on the same day the
court ordered that the transcript be deemed to be filed in
the petitioner's proceeding as of May 4th. We see no
reason to doubt the power of the court to retain the transcript or to amend its order of May 5th accordingly, and
certiorari has not been sought by the Board in relation
to the order of May 9th. Our decision in In re National
Labor Relations Board, 304 U. S. 486, is not apposite.
There the transcript had not been filed, the court had not
acquired jurisdiction of the subject matter, and the
Board still had the authority conferred upon it by § 10 (d).
In the circumstances of the present case we think it is
clear that the court was possessed of exclusive jurisdiction
of the administrative proceeding "and of the question determined therein," and thus of the power of "enforcing,
modifying, and enforcing as so modified, or setting aside
in whole or in part the order of the Board." § 10 (f). As
on the Board's petition the court could grant affirmative
relief to the person against whom the Board's order was
directed, so on the court's entertaining the petition of that
person for review the Board could seek not merely to have
the petition denied but to have its order enforced, regardless of any separate proceeding to that end.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

It thus appears that neither the order of May 5th,
granting the Board permission to withdraw its petition,
nor the attempt of the Board on May 6th to reassume control of the administrative proceeding, nor the Board's
withdrawal of its petition on June 2d, accomplished anything of substance, as the Board, in th presence of the
court's continued and exclusive jurisdictior, remained
without authority to deal with its order. And any question as to the propriety of the court's order of May 5th
became one of merely academic interest after the court by
its order of June 10th remanded the cause to the Board.
We turn to the consideration of that order.
Second. The cause was remanded to the Board for the
purpose "of setting aside its findings and order of December 22, 1937, and issuing proposed findings, and making its decision and order upon a reconsideration of the
entire case." The Board in its application for the remand stated that it would take that course. The specified
purpose qualified the court's order. It created a condition which the Board was bound to observe. If the
Board within a reasonable time failed to set aside its findings and order, we have no doubt that the court could
vacate its order of remand and proceed with its consideration of the petition to review. The propriety of the order
of remand must be considered in that aspect.
Third. If the court itself had set aside the findings and
order of the Board upon the ground, as asserted by petitioner, that the Board had not considered the evidence
and made its own findings, but had adopted as its own a
decision proposed by its subordinates without affording
petitioner any opportunity to be heard thereon, the court
could have remanded the cause for further proceedings
in conformity with its opinion. That ground being sufficient for setting aside the order, there is no principle of
procedure ip relation to the review either of judicial decrees or administrative orders which would require the
court to examine other grounds of attack.

FORD MOTOR CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
364

373

Opinion of the Court.

It is familiar appellate practice to remand causes for
further proceedings without deciding the merits, where
justice demands that course in order that some defect in
the record may be supplied.' Such a remand may be
made to permit further evidence to be taken or additional
findings to be rade upon essential points.5 So, when a
District Court has not made findings in accordance with
our controlling rule (Equity Rule 70%) it is our practice to set aside the decree and remand the cause for
further proceedings.6 The jurisdiction to review the orders of the Labor Relations Board is vested in a court
with equity powers, and while the court must act within
the bounds of the statute and without intruding upon the
administrative province, it may adjust its relief to the exigencies of the case in accordance with the equitable principles governing judicial action. The purpose of the judicial review is consonant with that of the administrative proceeding itself ,-to secure a just result with a minimum of technical requirements. The statute with respect to a judicial review of orders of the Labor Relations
Board follows closely the statutory provisions in relation
to the orders of the Federal Trade Commission, and as
to the latter it is well established that the court may
remand the cause to the Commission for further proceedings to the end that valid and essential findings may be
made. Federal Trade Comm'n v. Curtis Publishing Co.,
260 U. S. 568, 580, 583; International Shoe Co. v. Federal Trade ,Comm'n, 280 U. S. 291, 297; Federal Trade
Comm'n v. Royal Milling Co., 288 U. S. 212, 218; Procter
'Estho v. Lear, 7 Pet. 130; Levy v. Arredondo, 12 Pet. 218; Villa
v. Van Schaick, 299 U. S. 152, 155, 156.
'Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167, 179, 180;
United States v. Rio Grande Irrigation Co., 184 U. S. 416, 424;
Lincoln Gas & Electric Light Co. v. Lincoln, 223 U. S. 349, 361-365.
'Railroad Commission v. Maxcy, 281 U. S. 82; Interstate Circuit, Inc. v. United States, 304 U. S. 55.

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

& Gamble Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 11 F. 2d 47,
48, 49; Ohio Leather Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 45
F. 2d 39, 42.1 Similar action has been taken under the
National Labor Relations Act in Agwilines, Inc. v. National Labor Relations Board, 87 F. 2d 146, 155. See,
also, National Labor Relations Board v. Bell Oil & Gas
Co., 91 F. 2d 509, 515. The "remand" does not encroach
upon administrative functions. It means simply that
the case is returned to the administrative body in order
that it may take further action in accordance with the
applicable law. See Federal Radio Comm'n v. Nelson
Brothers Co., 289 U. S. 266, 278.
Such a remand does not dismiss or terminate the administrative proceeding. If findings are lacking which
may properly be made upon the evidence already received, the court does not require the evidence to be
reheard. Federal Trade Comm'n v. Curtis Publishing
Co., supra; International Shoe Co. v. Federal Trade
Comm'n, supra. If further evidence is necessary and
available to supply the basis for findings on material
points, that evidence may be taken. Federal Trade
Comr'n v. Royal Milling Co., supra; Procter & Gamble
Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, supra; Ohio Leather Co.
v. Federal Trade Comm'n, supra; Agwilines, Inc. v. National Labor Relations Board, supra. Whatever findings
or order may subsequently be made will be subject to
challenge if not adequately supported or the Board has
failed to act in accordance with the statutory requirements.
Fourth. The present controversy thus comes to the
narrow point that instead of setting aside the Board's
findings and order, the court has allowed the Board itself
'Compare Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n,
162 U. S. 197, 238, 239; Southern Railway Co. v. St. Louis Hay &
Grain Co., 214 U. S. 297, 302; Florida v. United States, 292 U. S.
1, 9; Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen v. National Mediation
Board, 66 App. D. C. 375; 88 F. 2d 757, 761.

FORD MOTOR CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
364

375

Opinion of the Court.

to set them aside. The contention on that ground is
without substance. In either event the findings and order are vacatec. Petitioner's objection to the order because of lack of due hearing results in the abandonment
of the findings and order and petitioner will thus be completely freed from any determination they contain or any
obligation they impose.
Petitioner says that the Board has not confessed error.
This is immaterial if the assailed findings and order are set
aside. Nor is it important that the court has not held
the findings and order to be void. It is elementary that
the court is not bound to determine questions which have
become academic.
There is nothing in the statute, or in the principles
governing judicial review of administrative action, which
precludes the court from giving an administrative body an
opportunity to meet objections to its order by correcting
irregularities in procedure, or supplying deficiencies in its
record, or making additional findings where these are necessary, or supplying findings validly made in the place of
those attacked as invalid. The application for remand in
this instance was not on frivolous grounds or for any purpose that might be considered dilatory or vexatious. Petitioner had raised a serious question as to the validity of
the findings and order. The Board properly recognized
the gravity of the contention and sought to meet it by
voluntarily doing what the court could have compelled.
That was in the interest of a prompt disposition, and
whatever delay has resulted is due to petitioner's resistance to that course.
Petitioner insists that it had other objections to the
Board's conduct of the proceeding. But it was not necessary for the court to consider them, as the setting aside
of the findings and order carried with it the opportunity
for reconsideration and the making of a new record.

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

305 U. S.

What findings or order would thus be made became a
matter of conjecture and in any event these and the manner of arriving at them would be subject to any justified
criticism.
As the substantial question is presented by the order of
June 10th, the writ of certiorari in No. "182 is dismissed.
The order of June 10th in No. 183 is affirmed.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS did not hear the argument and
took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.
PATTERSON v. STANOLIND OIL & GAS CO.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 113. Argued December 7, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.
1. The owner-lessor of the mineral rights in a tract of land on which
was a producing oil well was not deprived of property rights in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, nor were his contractual
rights impaired, by an order of the Oklahoma Corporation Commission, made after due hearing and pursuant to c. 59, Oklahoma
Session Laws, 1935, whereby part-of his land, with the well, was
included in the same 10-acre well-spacing and drilling unit with
land of other owner-lessors, and whereby he was obliged, under
§ 4 (c) of the statute, to share with them in one-eighth of the
production from the well, in proportion to their respective acreages
in such unit-it being assumed, as found by the Commission, that
there is a common source of supply, and that establishment of
the units will tend to effect proper drainage of the oil pool, result in uniform withdrawal and greatest ultimate recovery of oil,
conserve reservoir energy, and protect the relative rights of the
leaseholders and royalty-owners in the common source of supply.
P. 377.
2. Contention that regulatory provisions of c. 59, Okla. Sess. Laws,
1935, authorizing the State Corporation Commission to fix wellspacing and drilling units are void for indefiniteness---=held with-

out merit. P. 379.

