OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

305 U. S.

statutory and general law, which have not been clearly
and finally determined by the state's highest court, may
arise in the federal court. The state court need not thereafter, in other litigation, follow the federal court's
decision on such questions. However, cases for which
Congress has not authorized removal from a state court
can be appealed to the state's highest judicial tribunal,
thus giving each litigant a final determination of his
rights under state laws by the body vested with final
authority to interpret those laws. Rights and privileges
under the Federal Constitution and laws, which may be
involved in such litigation in a state court, can still be
protected by appeal to this Court.
The statutory privilege of removal should be protected.
But I do not believe that judicial construction should
expand the statutory privilege beyond limits intended
by the statute and properly recognized by this Court in
previous decisions. Particularly, I think it unwise to
indicate this step in a case in which decision and judgment do not require discussion of the question.
ALTON RAILROAD CO. v. ILLINOIS COMMERCE

COMMISSION

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 231. Argued December 15, 16, 1938.-Decided January 16, 1939.

1. A motion to dismiss or affirm will be overruled where, after argument, it appears that the question presented is not so clearly lacking
in merit that it may be put aside on mere citation of earlier
decisions. P. 550.
2. A railroad company, in Illinois, which has long operated, and maintained at its own cost, a switch track leading from its main line to
industrial plants, is not deprived of property without due process
by an order of the State requiring it to continue the up-keep,
where, though constructed at the expense of the industries, on
land in their ownership, the track crosses public thoroughfares

ALTON R. CO. v. ILLINOIS COMM'N.
548

549

Opinion of the Court.

and, under the law of the State, constitutes a part of the railroad
system which, with any extensions, may be used to serve other
shippers and the public at large. P. 553.
368 Ill. 584; 15 N. E. 2d 508, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment sustaining an order of the
commission requiring the railroad company to continue
maintenance and operation of a switch track. The case
went by appeal from the commission to a circuit court,
which also sustained the order.

Mr. Frank H. Towner, with whom Mr. Silas H. Strawn
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Harry R. Booth, Assistant Attorney General of
Illinois, with whom Messrs. John E. Cassidy, Attorney
General, and Homer D. Dines were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JusTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question is whether an order made by the commission, denying appellant's application for authority
to discontinue, and requiring it to continue, maintenance and operation of a switch track in Chicago used to
serve shippers, deprives it of its property in violation of
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Specifically, appellant maintains that by compelling it to
expend its funds for the upkeep of a track not constructed
or owned by it and upon land it does not own, the order
is repugnant to that provision of the Constitution. The
Illinois supreme court, affirming the circuit court of Cook
County, sustained the order as a valid exercise of state
power. 368 Ill. 584; 15 N. E. 2d 508.
Appellees, insisting that our decisions rule that question
in their favor, filed a motion to dismiss or affirm.* We
*Appellees rest their motion to dismiss or affirm on: Union Lime
Co. v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 233 U. S. 211.

Lake Erie

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1938,
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

postponed consideration of the motion to the argument of
the case on the merits. Now after hearing counsel it
appears that the question presented by the appeal is not
so clearly lacking in merit that upon mere citation of our
decisions it may be put aside as not requiring further
consideration. We therefore deny the motion. Milheim
v. Moffat Tunnel Dist., 262 U. S. 710,716,717. Hamilton
v. Regents, 293 U. S. 245, 258.
Through purchasers at judicial sale July 18, 1931, appellant acquired the properties of the Chicago & Alton
Railroad Company, a consolidated company formed in
1906 and in receivership from 1922 to the sale. It and
its predecessors, including the receiver, may for brevity
be referred to as the carrier.
The switch track in question extends from the carrier's
main line about 150 feet on the right-of-way, thence 2,681
feet, crossing public streets and alleys, to the boundary
of the plant of the Peoples Gas Light & Coke Company
upon land largely, if not wholly, owned by that company
and the other industries served by the track. The industries, commencing with the one nearest the main line,
are Commonwealth Edison Company, E. Heldmaier, Inc.,
Moulding-Brownell Corp., and the gas company. All
but the first depend upon the track for rail transportation. It has been extended for some distance into the
plant of the gas company. Five spurs, that appropriately may be called private sidings, extend from it and
serve within the plants of the industries. There is here
no question as to the part of the track within the gas
plant or of the spurs serving the industries. Construction was begun prior to 1884, and at least since 1887 the
stretch here in question has been used to serve the gas
& W. R. Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 249 U. S. 422. Chicago
& N. W. Ry. Co. v. Ochs, 249 U. S. 416. Western & Atlantic Railroad v. Public Service Comm'n, 267 U. S. 493, 496.

ALTON R. CO. v. ILLINOIS COMM'N.
548

551

Opinion of the Court.

company, and for more than 30 years other industries
between that company's plant and the main line. The
original cost of construction was borne by the gas company and possibly other industries. It does not appear
by whom the cost of maintenance prior to 1904 was paid.
Pursuant to ordinance passed November 2, 1903, a part
of the track was elevated at crossings of three streets
and two intervening alleys. November 1, 1904, the carrier made an agreement with the gas company and the
predecessor of the electric company pursuant to which
they paid the cost of elevation. The gas company agreed
to pay an annual fee of $300 imposed by the ordinance
for the privilege of maintaining the track across the
streets and alleys. The carrier agreed to maintain the
track. And, by an assignment reciting that the ordinance had been obtained for their benefit, the carrier
transferred it to the gas and electric companies. The
gas company paid the fees until the 1903 ordinance expired November 2, 1923. Then it and the electric company insisted that future exactions by the city as well
as maintenance should be borne by the carrier. The
latter refused to accept the additional burden. December 10, 1924, the city passed an ordinance authorizing
use of the streets for 20 years from expiration of the
1903 ordinance, increased the annual fee to $1,400, and
required a bond to insure compliance. The carrier accepted the terms of the ordinance, having an understanding with the gas. and electric companies that they would
pay the charges. Nevertheless, it paid $1,400 annually
from 1923 to 1932 and was reimbursed only to the extent
of $300 paid by the gas company for each of three years
in that period. As of November 2, 1932 the annual
fee was reduced to $700, and appellant paid it up to
November 2, 1936. The carrier bore the cost of maintaining the track from 1904 to March 26, 1936. On that

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

date, exercising as it asserts a right reserved by final decree in the receiverhip proceeding, it elected not to assume the contract. Nevertheless, it has continued to
use and maintain the track. Thus since 1903 the carrier, in addition to maintaining the track, has paid $15,190 to the city as compensation for its occupancy of the
public streets and alleys. Through error as it says, it
paid taxes on the track for some of the time.
Needed repairs and betterments of the track involved
will require expenditures amounting to about $4,000 a
year for three years; then annual cost of maintenance will
be about $1,000. It may be assumed that, in order to
continue operation, appellant will have to pay whatever
fees are charged by the city, and that, because the track
is on land not owned by it, its expenditures for additions
and betterments must, as it asserts, by accounting regulations be charged to operating expenses. The annual gross
revenue for transportation over the track amounts to
about $40,000.
Appellant does not suggest that operating expenses including the city charges, plus cost of replacements and
betterments, will exceed revenue derived from use of the
track or that operation of the track will not yield it a
reasonable profit; nor does it claim, as of constitutional
right, to be entitled to have any profit from use of the
switch 'track separately considered. Puget Sound Traction Co. v. Reynolds, 244 U. S. 574, 580. Fort Smith
Light & Traction Co. v. Bourland, 267 U. S. 330, 332.
Western & Atlantic Railroad v. Public Service Comm'n,
267 U. S. 493, 496-497. Admittedly, appellant is willing
to continue to use the track to serve the industries. Its
petition prays an order requiring them to pay cost of
maintenance and future city charges. It seeks authority
to discontinue service and to cancel applicable rates, but
only in case of failure of the industries to pay these op-

ALTON R. CO. v. ILLINOIS COMM'N.
548

553

Opinion of the Court.

erating expenses. It wants, not to give up the traffic, but
to shift a substantial financial burden that it has long been
bearing to the industries served.
The state supreme court held: As between the public
and the railroad, a switch track built for industrial purposes and across public thoroughfares becomes a part of
the main line of the system which it joins-and is subject
to governmental regulation in the public interest, even
though it was built by private funds and for the most part
on private property; appellant uses the switch track in
question for its own benefit to serve industries located on
it and may use it and extensions of it to serve other shippers and the public at large; the public has an interest
quite apart from that of the parties to the suit in the
maintenance of the track; the state public utility act,
ยง 50, is broad enough to impose upon a railroad duty to
maintain the property which it uses for its own benefit
as well as that to which it has title; the commission has
ample power to enforce that duty and the order does not
violate any provision of the state or federal constitutions.
We have held: The uses for which a track was desired
are not the less public because the motive which dictated
its location was to reach a private industry, or because
the proprietors of that industry contributed to the cost.
Hairston v. Danville & Western Ry. Co., 208 U. S. 598,
608. The State, consistently with the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment, may empower a-common
carrier by railroad to condemn a right-of-way for a spur
leading to a single industry to be operated under- obligations of public service open to all and devoted- to public
use. Union Lime Co. v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 233
U. S. 211, 222. It may compel a railroad to extend a
siding to an adjacent industry so as to provide additional
trackage for public use and, if necessary, to condemn a
right-of-way. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Ochs, 249

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

U. S. 416, 419. For similar exertions of state power, see
Lake Erie & W. R. Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 249
U. S. 422, 424 and Western & Atlantic Railroad v. Public
Service Commn'n, supra.
The decision of the state supreme court in this case
must here be held conclusively to establish that under
the constitution and laws of Illinois the order is valid.
The decisions of this Court above cited leave no doubt
as to the power of the State to require a common carrier by railroad to condemn rights-of-way for and to construct switch tracks like the one here involved. So far
as concerns decision of this case, it matters not whether
Illinois has exerted that power, for the track has been laid
and is being used by the carrier. The required mainteance and operation are not beyond the scope of the carrier's undertaking to serve the public. Union Lime Co.
v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., supra. Chicago & N. W.
Ry. Co. v. Ochs, supra.
Assuming that the questions whether the switch track
is open to public use and has become a part of the main
line are so related to the constitutional issue here preserted that the state court's determination of them is
not binding upon this Court, we are of opinion that, upon
the facts alleged in appellant's petition to the commission, the latter's unchallenged findings, and our decisions
in similar cases, it is clear that in point of fact and law
the switch track and any extensions of it that may be
made are open to use to serve the public and constitute
a part of the carrier's system.
Asserting that the duty to maintain a track such as that
in question normally results from ownership, appellant
earnestly insists that the order is shown to be unreasonable by the fact that rails and other materials purchased
and owned by it when put into the -track immediately
cease to belong to it and become the property of the gas

ALTON R. CO. v. ILLINOIS COMM'N.
548

555

Opinion of the Court.

company which, appellant says, retains right of ownership
in the track. But, in making that and similar arguments,
appellant ignores the decisions in this case of the commission, the state supreme court, and as well the ruling of
this Court just indicated, to the effect that the trkck in
question is one built for industrial purposes on and across
public thoroughfares; a track that has become a part of
the main line of the carrier's system and, though constructed without cost to it on lands owned by others, is
open to public use; a track which has long been and is
being used by the carrier for its own benefit and by it
may be used with extensions if any shall be made, to
serve the public at large.
Appellant does not suggest that as against the owners
of the land or those who paid for building the track, it
is a trespasser or without right to continue to maintain
and operate the track as required by the order. Nor does
it say that, by exertion of the power of eminent domain,
it may not. successfully resist demands of claimants or
owners for possession of any part of the land or of the
track not owned by it. See Mapes v. Vandalia Railroad
Co., 238 Ill. 142, 145; 87"N. E. 393; Black v. Chicago,B. &
Q. R. Co., 243 Ill. 534, 539; 90 N. E. 1075; Roberts v.
Northern PacificR. Co., 158 U. S. 1, 11; Northern Pacific
R. Co. v. Smith, 171 U. S. 260, 271.
If, as suggested, expenditures for needed betterments, as
well as those for maintenance, are chargeable to operating
expenses, all are returnable to the carrier, out of operating
revenue, as a part of the cost of maintenance and use.
And, if appellant acquires title to the land and track,
then additions and betterments made by it will constitute
a part of its investment in road and equipment owned and
used for its purposes as a common carrier and, by the
due process clauses of the state and federal constitutions,
safeguarded against confiscation.

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

It is clear that enforcement of the order will not take
appellant's property in violation of the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

BLACK

is of opinion that the motion to

dismiss should be granted.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

