534

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

PULLMAN COMPANY

ET AL.

305 U. S.

v. JENKINS

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 210. Argued December 13, 14, 1938.-Decided January 16, 1939.
1. Existence of a separable controversy for removal under 28 U. S. C.
§ 71 is determined according to the plaintiff's pleaaing at the time
of petition for removal. P. 537.
2. If, as to the non-resident defendant seeking removal, the controversy is separable within the purview of 28 U. S. C. § 71, the fact
that under the state practice it may be joined in the same suit
with another controversy as against other defendants, does not
preclude removal. P. 538.
3. Where, in the absence of clear proof of bad faith in the joinder,
concurrent acts of negligence on the part of the defendants sued as
joint tort-feasors are sufficiently alleged, a separable controversy is
not presented and the fact that the defendants might have been
sued separately affords no ground for removal. This rule is applied
where a non-resident employer and its resident employee, whose
negligence caused the injury, are sued jointly. P. 538.
4. A non-resident sleeping car company and its resident porter were
sued for negligence, committed by the action of the porter, in
permitting a drunken and disorderly man to board a sleeping car,
who, whilst being ejected, struck the plaintiff's husband, the train
conductor, causing his death. Held:
(1) That this controversy was separable from others in the same
complaint, viz. a claim against the assailant for the assault, and a
claim against the railway company and its gate tender for negligence in permitting the assailant to enter the station and go
through the gates, without showing his ticket, to board the train.
P. 539.
(2) The non-resident car company, being charged jointly with
its resident employee, could not remove the case to the federal
court. P. 540.
(3) The facts that the porter was sued by a fictitious name and
his residence not alleged in the complaint, did not justify removal.
Id.
It was incumbent upon the car company to show that it had a
separable controversy which was wholly between citizens of different
States. As in determining whether there was such a separable

PULLMAN CO. v. JENKINS.
534

Opinion of the Court.

controversy with respect to the car company its porter could not
be ignored, the car company was bound to show that he was a
non-resident in order to justify removal.
5. Where there is a non-separable controversy against a non-resident
and a resident defendant, the fact that the resident has not been
served with process does not justify removal by the non-resident.
P. 540.
6. It is always open to the non-resident defendant to show that the
resident defendant has not been joined in good faith and for that
reason should not be considered in determining the right to remove.
P. 541.
96 F. 2d 405, affirmed as to result.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 583, to review the reversal of a

judgment of the District Court, 17 F. Supp. 820, dismissing, upon the ground of settlement and release, an action

in tort, which had been removed from a state court.
Messrs. Robert Brennan and M. W. Reed, with whom
Messrs. Leo. E. Sievert, H. K. Lockwood and Lawrence
Livingston were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. L. H. Phillips, with whom Mr. Rex Hardy was
on the brief, for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The question is whether petitioner, the Pullman Company, was entitled to remove this cafise to the federal
court. The Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing the
District Court, ordered remand (96 F. 2d 405) and because of conflict in the ground of its ruling with decisions
of this Court, we granted certiorari.
Respondent, Mrs. Jenkins, and her son Robert W.
Jenkins, by Mrs. Jenkins as guardian ad litem, brought
this action on September 27, 1935, in the Superior Court
for Los Angeles County, California, to recover damages
for injuries causing the death of her husband. He was

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

employed by the Southern Pacific Company as conductor
of a train running from Los Angeles to San Francisco.
His injuries were due to a blow struck by A. J. Kash, who
was being removed from the train by police officers called
to assist the conductor in ejecting Kash because of his
disorderly conduct. The suit was brought against the
Southern Pacific Company, the Pullman Company, Kash,
Hatch, the Pullman conductor, John Doe One, described
as employed by the Pullman Company as porter, and
John Doe Two, described, as employed by the Southern
Pacific Company as gate tender at the passenger depot
at Los Angeles.
The complaint alleged two causes of action, one against
all the defendants, the other against Kash alone. The
plaintiffs and defendant Kash were stated to be residents
of California. The Southern Pacific Company was described as a Kentucky corporation and the Pullman Company as an Illinois corporation. The residences of the
defendants Hatch and John Doe One and John Doe Two
were not set forth.
On November 20, 1935, the Pullman Company, as a
citizen and resident of Illinois, insisting that the controversy as to it was a separable one, filed its petition for
removal to the federal court, with bond; and on November 25, 1935, the petition and bond were approved and
removal was ordered. On the day on which that order
was entered, an amended complaint was filed in the state
court which contained the allegation that the action was
bropught against the Southern Pacific Company under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act. 45 U. S. C. 51. On December 27, 1935, Mrs. Jenkins as administratrix of the
estate of the decedent was substituted as plaintiff. On
January 17, 1936, the defendant Hatch demurred to the
amended complaint upon the ground that it stated no
cause of action agaii.t him, and on January 29, 1936,
the demurrer was sustained.

PULLMAN CO. v. JENKINS.
534

Opinion of the Court.

On January 22, 1936, the plaintiffs moved to remand,
stating that Edward E. Meyers, the Pullman porter, sued
as John Doe One, had been served with process on January 14, 1936, and that he and the defendant Hatch
were residents and citizens of California, and that the
action as against them and the Pullman Company was
not a separable controversy. Pending this motion, on
February 8, 1936, the plaintiffs filed in the federal court
a second amended complaint identifying Meyers as the
Pullman porter and Fred M. Dolsen as John Doe Two,
described as the Southern Pacific gate tender. This
amended complaint repeated the allegation that the
Southern Pacific was sued under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act. On February 19, 1936, the court denied
the motion to remand.
On December 28, 1936, the action was dismissed as
against the Southern Pacific and Dolsen as the result of
a compromise. Supplemental answers were then filed
by the remaining defendants respectively claiming release by reason of the agreement with the Southern Pacific. The District Court sustained this defense and entered judgment dismissing the complaint.
On appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals, passing the
other questions, held that if it did not sufficiently appear
at the time of the petition for removal that the cause
was not separable, it did so appear when the second
amended complaint was filed and hence that the District Court erred in denying the motion to remand. 96
F. 2d p. 410. This ruling was placed upon an erroneous
ground. The second amended complaint should not
have been considered in determining the right to remove,
which in a case like the present one was to be determined
according to the plaintiffs' pleading at the time of the
petition for removal. Barney v. Latham, 103 U. S. 205,
213-216; Graves v. Corbin, 132 U. S. 571, 585; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Wangelin, 122 17. '; 599, 601;

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

Salem Trust Co. v. Manufacturers'FinanceCo., 264 U. S.
182, 189, 190; Saint Paul Mercury Indemnity Co. v. Red
Cab Co., 303 U. S. 283, 294, 295.
The question then is whether the original complaint set
forth a separable controversy between the plaintiffs and
the Pullman Company, that is, a controversy "which is
wholly between citizens of different States, and which can
be fully determined as between them." 28 U. S. C. 71.
If, as to the non-resident defendant seeking removal, the
controversy is separable within the purview of the statute
as construed, the fact that under the state practice it
may be joined in the same suit with another controversy
as against other defendants, does not preclude removal.
Barney v. Latham, supra; Nichols v. Chesapeake & Ohio
Ry. Co., 195 F. 913, 915, 916; Stewart v. Nebraska Tire &
Rubber Co., 39 F. 2d 309, 311; Des Moines Elevator Co. v.
Underwriters' Grain Assn., 63 F. 2d 103, 105; Culp v.
Baldwin, 87 F. 2d 679, 680-682.
This is so whether the action sounds in contract or in
tort. The question is determined by the plaintiff's pleading. Thus if defendants are charged with negligence, but
the charge against the non-resident defendant is based on
different and non-concurrent acts of negligence and a
cause of action which is joint in character is not alleged, a
separable controversy is presented. See Culp v. Baldwin,
supra. Where, in the absence of clear proof of bad faith
in the joinder, concurrent acts of negligence on the part of
the defendants sued as joint tort-feasors are sufficiently
alleged, a separable controversy is not presented and the
fact that the defendants might have been sued separately
affords no ground for removal. This rule is applied where
a non-resident employer and its resident employee, whose
negligence caused the injury, are sued jointly. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Dixon, 179 U. S. 131, 139; Alabama Great Southern Ry. Co. v. Thompson, 200 U. S.

PULLMAN CO. v. JENKINS.
534

539

Opinion of the Court:

206, 212, 213, 220; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Dowell,
229 U. S. 102, 111-113; Hay v. May Company, 271 U. S.
318, 321, 322; Watson v. Chevrolet Motor Co., 68 F. 2d
686, 689; Harrelson v. Missouri Pacific Transportation
Co., 87 F. 2d 176, 177.
In the instant case, the original complaint did not
charge any negligence or wrongful conduct in ejecting
Kash from the train. On the contrary, it was alleged
that he was intoxicated and was acting in an offensive,
threatening and quarrelsome manner in which he persisted despite remonstrance. There was clearly a separable controversy with respect to Kash. He was sued
for his unlawful assault upon the conductor.
The negligence charged against the Southern Pacific
Company and its gate tender was in the action of the latter in permitting Kash to enter the station and go
through the gates to board the train without displaying
his ticket and while drunk and disorderly. The negligence charged against the Pullman Company and its porter was alleged to consist in the action of the porter in
permitting Kash to board the Pullman sleeper. No facts
were alleged upon which liability of the Pullman Company and its employees could be predicated upon the
negligence of the Southern Pacific Company and its gate
tender. It was not shown that either the Pullman Company or the Southern Pacific Company was liable for
the acts of the other or that they joined in the commission
of any wrong. With respect to these companies in relation to each other, the cases above cited, so far as they
hold that a separable controversy is not presented when
master and servant are joined because of concurrent negligence, are not in point.
Nor was any negligence or wrongful act alleged on the
part of the Pullman conductor.
The question, however, remains as to the effect of the
joinder of the Pullman porter. If the porter had been

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

sued in his proper name, instead of John Doe, had been
described as a citizen of California, and had been served
with process prior to the petition for removal, there could
be no question that the Pullman Company would not
have been entitled to remove. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry.
Co. v. Dixon, supra; Alabama Great Southern Ry. Co. v.
Thompson, supra; Hay v. May Company, supra.
. We think that the fact that the Pullman porter was
sued by a fictitious name did not justify removal. His
relation to the Pullman Company and his negligence as
its servant were fully alleged. See Grosso v. Butte Electric Ry. Co., 217 F. 422. Nor does the fact that the residence of the porter was not set forth justify disregarding him. It was incumbent upon the Pullman Company
to show that it had a separable controversy which was
wholly between citizens of different States. As in determining whether there was such a separable controversy
with respect to the Pullman Company its porter could not
be ignored, the Company was bound to show that he was a
non-resident in order to justify removal.
At the time of the petition for removal the Pullman
porter had not yet been served with process. Where
there is a non-separable controversy with respect to several non-resident defendants, one of them may remove
the cause, although the other defendants have not been
served with process and have not appeared. Tremper
v. Schwabacher, 84 F. 413, 416; Bowles v. H. J. Heinz
Co., 188 F. 937; Hunt v. Pearce, 271 F. 498; 284 F. 321,
323, 324; Community Building Co. v. Maryland Casualty
Co., 8 F. 2d 678; Trower v. Stonebraker-Zea Co., 17 F.
Supp. 687, 690; Kelly v. Alabama-Quenelda Co., 34 F.
2d 790, 791. In such a case there is diversity of citizenship, and the reason for the rule is stated to be that
the defendant not served may never be served, or may
be served after the time has expired for the defendant
who has been served to apply for a removal, and unless

PULLMAN CO. v. JENKINS.
534

Opinion of the Court.

the latter can make an effective application alone, his
right to removal may be lost. Hunt v. Pearce, 284 F.
p. 324. But the rule is otherwise where a non-separable
controversy involves a resident defendant. In that case
the fact that the resident defendant has not been served
with process does not justify removal by the non-resident defendant. Patchin v. Hunter, 38 F. 51, 53; Armstrong v. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co., 192 F. 608, 615;
Hunt v. Pearce, 271 F. p. 502; Del Fungo Gierav. Rockland Light & Power Co., 46 F. 2d 552, 554; Hane v. MidContinent Petroleum Corp., 47 F. 2d 244, 246, 247. It
may be said that the non-resident defendant may be
prejudiced because his co-defendant may not be served.
On the other hand there is no diversity of citizenship,
and the controversy being a non-separable one, the nonresident defendant should not be permitted to seize an
opportunity to remove the cause before service upon the
resident co-defendant is effected. It is always open to
the non-resident defendant to show that the resident
defendant has not been joined in good faith and for that
reason should not be considered in determining the right
to remove. Wecker v. National Enameling Co., 204 U. S.
176, 185, 186; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Cockrell,
232 U. S. 146, 152; Wilson v. Republic Iron & Steel Co.,
257 U. S. 92, 97; Clancy v. Brown, 71 F. 2d 110, 112, 113.
In the instant case there was no charge that the joinder
was fraudulent. On the motion to remand it appeared
that the Pullman porter, identified as Meyers, was a
resident of California and had then been served with
process.
We conclude that the District Court erred in denying
the motion to remand and that the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals should be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration

and decision of this case.

[Over.]

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK, J., concurring.

305 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK, concurring.

I agree that it was incumbent upon the Pullman Company, seeking removal, to show that it was sued in a
controversy "wholly between citizens of different
States";' that the Company failed to meet this burden;
that plaintiff's joining the Pullman Company with a Pullman porter designated by a fictitious name did not relieve
the Company of its statutory burden; that consequently
the District Court erred in denying a motion to remand,
and that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
reversing the District Court's refusal to remand, should
be affirmed. To certain portions of the opinion, which
this affirmance does not require, I cannot agree.
First. The original complaint filed in the state court
indicated plaintiff's intention to rest its case against the
Southern Pacific Company upon the Federal Employers'
Liability Act, under which suits brought in state courts
are not removable to federal courts.' The pleadings did
not disclose that the suit was based on the federal Act
as clearly as good pleading requires, and the complaint
was doubtless subject to special demurrer because of its
generality. But the mere fact that a complaint based on
the federal Act is demurrable does not make it subject to
removal. In addition, both an amendment filed in the
state court before the order of removal (but after the petition for removal), and a second amendment filed after
removal, served to make the original complaint more precise and made clear the original purpose of claiming under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act without changing
the original cause of action. "It is true that the declaration was amended after the petition to remove .. ., but
the amendment if not unnecessary merely made the
original cause of action more precise. On the question of
1 c. 3, § 71, 28 U. S. C.
2

c. 2, § 51, § 56, 45 U. S. C.

PULLMAN CO. v. JENKINS.
534

BLACK, J., concurring.

removal we have not to consider more than whether there
was a real intention to get a joint judgment and whether
there was a colorable ground for it shown as the record
stood when the [petition for removal was ruled on] . ..
We are not to decide whether a flaw could be picked in the
declaration on special demurrer."''
Both from the original complaint and from its amendments it seems clear to me that plaintiff sought relief
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act and that the
ruling of the Court of Appeals on that ground was proper.
Second. The disposition of this case on the ground set
out in the opinion does not require the statement that "If,
as to the non-resident defendant seeking removal, the
controversy is separable within the purview of the statute
as construed, the fact that under the state practice it may
be joined in the same suit with another controversy as
against other defendants, does not preclude removal."
Nor do I agree that this is a correct construction of the
removal statute. The statement is rested on the case of
Barney v. Latham, 103 U. S. 205, and opinions from two
Circuit Courts of Appeals. 4 However, this Court later
refused to accept the Latham case as authority for the
proposition that the statutory right of removal "takes no
account of... what may be the rules of practice, whether
common law or statutory, of the State in which the action
may be pending"; instead, it held exactly the opposite.
Alabama Great Southern Ry. Co. v. Thompson, 200 U. S.
206, (see argument of counsel, page 209). And in Cincinnati, N. 0. & T. P. Ry. Co. v. Bohon, 200 U. S. 221, 225,
3 Chicago, R.

I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Schwyhart, 227 U. S. 184, 194.

4 Nichols v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. (CCA 6th, decided 1912),

195 F. 913; Stewart v. Nebraska Tire & Rubber Co. (CCA 8th,
decided 1930), 39 F. 2d 309; Des Moines Elevator & Grain Co. v.
Underwriters' Grain Assn. (CCA 8th, decided 1933), 63 F. 2d 103;
Culp v. Baldwin (CCA 8th, decided 1937), 87 F. 2d 679 (but see
679-80).

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., concurring.

534

226 (considered and decided with the Thompson case),
the Court stated:
"While the case did not show an attempt to remove,
the discussion of the subject by the Chief Justice strongly
intimates that if the action was properly joint in the
forum in which it was being prosecuted it could not be
removed as a separable controversy under the act of Congress. We have under consideration an action for tort
which by the constitution and laws of the State, as interpreted by the highest court in the State, gives a joint
remedy against master and servant to recover for negligent injuries. This court has repeatedly held that a
separable controversy must be shown upon the face of the
petition or declaration, and that the defendant has no
right to say that an action shall be several which the plaintiff elects to make joint. (See cases cited in Alabama
Great Southern Railway Co. v. Thompson, supra.) A
State has an unquestionable right by its constitution and
laws to regulate actions for negligence, and where it has
provided that the plaintiff in such cases may proceed
jointly or severally against those liable for the injury, and
the plaintiff in due course of law and in good faith has
filed a petition electing to sue for a joint recovery given
by the laws of the State, we know of nothing in the Federal removal statute which will convert such action into a
separable controversy for the purpose of removal, because
of the presence of a non-resident defendant therein
properly joined in the action under the constitution and
laws of the State wherein it is conducting its operations
and is duly served with process."
It was thus broadly held that there can be no other
or separable controversy, if a plaintiff properly elects
under state practice to sue defendants jointly. Even a
separate defense, which may defeat a joint recovery, can-

PULLMAN CO. v. JENKINS.
534

BLACK, J.,

545

concurring.

not create a separable controversy when the plaintiff has
a right to make his cause of action joint.'
In cases which have involved the right of removal
since the Latham case, this Court has repeatedly held that
the "joint liability of the defendants [one of whom is a
non-resident] under the declaration as amended is a matter of state law, and upon that we shall not attempt to
go behind the decision of the highest court of the State
before which the question could come."'
Only two Circuit Courts of Appeals have held that
causes of action properly joined under state practice may
nevertheless be separable for purposes of removal; other
Circuits have followed the decisions of this Court.! Cases
from the two Circuits are relied upon to support the
6 Pirie v. Tvedt, 115 U. S. 41; Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry.
Co., 169 U. S. 92, 97; Chicago, B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Willard, 220 U. S.
413.
' Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Schwyhart, supra, at 193 (decided
1913); Southern Ry. Co. v. Miller, 217 U. S. 209, 215, 216 (decided
1910); "The Supreme Court of the State decided that the petition
stated a cause of action against Drake and the railway company,
and whether it did, we said in Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry.
v. Schwyhart, 227 U. S. 184, was a matter of state law." Chicago,
R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Whiteaker, 239 U. S. 421, 424 (decided 1915);
Chicago & Alton R. Co. v. McWhirt, 243 U. S. 422 (decided 1917).
7 In Norwalk v. Air-way Electric Appliance Corp., 87 F. 2d 317,
319, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held that
"whether a separable controversy exists for the purpose of removal
is determined by state law," citing the Bohon case and the McWhirt
case, supra. To the same effect are, Johnson v. Noble, 64 F. 2d 396,
398, Padgett v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 54 F. 2d 576, 577, and
Centerville State Bank v. National Surety Co., 37 F. 2d 338 (CCA
10th) ; Gulf Refining Co. v. Morgan, 61 F. 2d 80, 81 (CCA 4th); see
Breymann v. Pennsylvania, 0. & D. R. Co., 38 F. 2d 209 (CCA 6th);
opinion of Hutcheson, Circuit Judge, in Lake v. Texas News Co.,
51 F. 2d 862, 863 (S. D. Texas); and Waco v. U. S. Fidelity & G.
Co., 76 F. 2d 470, 471 (CCA 5th).
105537*-39---35

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK, J., concurring.

305 U.

S.

language in the opinion of the Court to which I cannot
agree.8 However, the cases relied upon from one of
these two Circuits no longer appear to represent the rule
And the lone case in the other of
even in that Circuit
the two Circuits was contrary to and decided before the
most recent decisions of this Court on the subject."
Third. It is, of course, true that where governing state
law characterizes actionable negligence of a local and a
non-resident defendant as "concurrent negligence," there
can be no right of removal. However, this is but one application of the rule governing removals under which we
look to state law to determine the propriety of joining
two or more defendants in a single suit." The opinion
in the Thompson case, supra, was expressly designed to
resolve the "conflict in the authorities as to whether a
corporation, whose liability does not arise from an act
of concurrence or direction on its part, but solely as a result of the relation of master and servant, may be jointly
See note 4, supra.
oOther cases in the Eighth Circuit throw some degree of doubt on
the Stewart and Grain Co. cases, supra, and indicate a disposition
to determine whether liability of a defendant under allegations of a
complaint is joint or severable by reference to state law. See,
Harrelsonv. Missouri Pacific TransportationCo., 87 F. 2d 176, 178;
Huffman v. Baldwin, 82 F. 2d 5, 8; Watson v. Chevrolet Motor Co.,
68 F. 2d 686, 688, 689. After the decision of this Court in Erie R.
Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S.64, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit seemingly was of opinion (1938) that the question of
"joint liability and of the bearing thereof on the question of removability" must be determined by the law of the State. Ervin v. Texas
Co., 97 F. 2d 806, 809.
10 The Nichols case, supra, in the Sixth Circuit, was decided in
1912; the Schwyhart case, the Whiteaker case, and the McWhirt case,
in this Court, were decided in 1913, 1915, and 1917, respectively (see
note 6).
11See, Chesapeake & Ohio R. Co. v. Dixon, 179 U. S.131, 140;
Alabama Great Southern Ry. Co. v. Thompson, supra, 220; Chicago,
R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Dowell, 229 U. S.102, 112, 113.
B

PULLMAN CO. v. JENKINS.
534

BLAcK, J., concurring.

sued with the servant whose negligent conduct directly
caused the injury." (at pp. 213, 214). The question submitted for decision in that case was (pp. 212, 213): "May
a railroad corporation be jointly sued with two of its
servants... though ... not charged with any concurrent

act of negligence?" This Court gave an affirmative
answer.
The principle has been well stated by the Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit:
"Appellees contend that removal is prevented only
where a master and servant are charged with concurrent
negligence. The rule is settled otherwise. In Alabama
Great So. Ry. Co. v. Thompson, supra, and Cincinnati,
N. 0. & Texas Pac. Ry. v. Bohon, supra, the master was
alleged to be liable on the doctrine of respondeat superior. It is immaterial that the liability of the master
and that of the servant proceed on different grounds;
even more distinct were the bases of liability of the lessee
and lessor railroad companies in Chicago, B. & Q. Ry.
Co. v. Willard,.

..

[220 U. S. 413] where the lessor was

held on its obligation to the public of which it could
not be relieved by virtue of a lease .... Nothing in Hay
v. May Department Stores Co., 271 U. S.318, . . . sup-

ports the claim that the rule of nonremovability is limited to instances of concurrent negligence." 12
The Constitution authorizes Congress to fix the jurisdiction of federal District Courts. The constitutional division of powers between the States and the National
Government makes it necessary that the jurisdictional
policy declared by Congress be scrupulously observed.
This is especially so in view of the fact that after removal
of a cause from a state court by reason of diversity of
citizenship, the federal court must proceed under state
law and practice. Questions of state constitutional,
12Norwalk

v. Air-Way Electric Appliance Corp., supra, 319.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

305 U. S.

statutory and general law, which have not been clearly
and finally determined by the state's highest court, may
arise in the federal court. The state court need not thereafter, in other litigation, follow the federal court's
decision on such questions. However, cases for which
Congress has not authorized removal from a state court
can be appealed to the state's highest judicial tribunal,
thus giving each litigant a final determination of his
rights under state laws by the body vested with final
authority to interpret those laws. Rights and privileges
under the Federal Constitution and laws, which may be
involved in such litigation in a state court, can still be
protected by appeal to this Court.
The statutory privilege of removal should be protected.
But I do not believe that judicial construction should
expand the statutory privilege beyond limits intended
by the statute and properly recognized by this Court in
previous decisions. Particularly, I think it unwise to
indicate this step in a case in which decision and judgment do not require discussion of the question.
ALTON RAILROAD CO. v. ILLINOIS COMMERCE

COMMISSION

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 231. Argued December 15, 16, 1938.-Decided January 16, 1939.

1. A motion to dismiss or affirm will be overruled where, after argument, it appears that the question presented is not so clearly lacking
in merit that it may be put aside on mere citation of earlier
decisions. P. 550.
2. A railroad company, in Illinois, which has long operated, and maintained at its own cost, a switch track leading from its main line to
industrial plants, is not deprived of property without due process
by an order of the State requiring it to continue the up-keep,
where, though constructed at the expense of the industries, on
land in their ownership, the track crosses public thoroughfares

