POLK COMPANY v. GLOVER.
Syllabus.

POLK COMPANY ET AL. V. GLOVER, COUNTY
SOLICITOR, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 29. Argued October 20, 1938.-Decided November 7, 1938.
1. In deciding a motion to dismiss a bill upon the ground that it
fails to state a cause of action, the court is not at liberty to consider
affidavits or other evidence produced in support of an accompanying application for an interlocutory injunction, but must decide
upon the facts set up in the bill. P. 9.
The motion was accompanied also by answers; but plaintiffs
did not submit the case to be decided upon the merits upon the
bill, answers and affidavits.
2. Before deciding grave constitutional questions, the essential facts
upon which they depend should be determined after a hearing in
due course upon the issues raised by the pleadings. P. 9.
A Florida statute required that the labels upon containers of
canned citrus fruit or fruit juice name the State or country where
the contents were produced, and, if produced in Florida, that the
name "Florida" be in or embossed upon the substance of each container. Violation was made punishable as a crime and by confiscation. Canners of citrus products grown in Florida attacked the
statute upon the ground that its present enforcement would inflict
immediate and irreparable injury because of the cost of sorting,
classifying and overprinting large stocks of labels on hand; and
because the tinned containers on hand, of great value, could not
be embossed as required without impairing the protective coating
of tin, so that subsequent use would result in spoilage of contents
and much loss to the plaintiffs' business. It is held, without intimating any opinion on constitutional issues, that the facts alleged
in the bill were such as to entitle plaintiffs to an opportunity to
prove their case, and that the court below should not have undertaken to dispose of those issues in denial of that opportunity.
The allegations as to trade conditions and practices, and as to the
effect of the required embossing of cans, raised particular questions which could hardly be said to lie within the range of judicial
notice.
22 F. Supp. 575, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

APPEAL from a decree of a District Court of three
judges, denying an interlocutory injunction and dismissing the bill, in a suit to enjoin enforcement of a statute
relating to the labeling &c. of canned citrus products.

Messrs. H. Thomas Austern and John B. Sutton for
appellants.
Messrs. Win. C. Pierce and John L.. Graham, Assistant
Attorney General of Florida, with whom Messrs. George
Couper Gibbs, Attorney General, and E. Glenn Grimes
were on the brief, for appellees.
PER CURIAM.

Plaintiffs, engaged in the business of canning citrus
products grown in the State of Florida, challenged by this
suit the validity of Chapter 17,783 of the Acts of 1937
of that State upon the ground that the statute violated
the state constitution and also the commerce clause, and
the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, of the Federal Constitution. An interlocutory injunction was sought and a court of three
judges was convened.
Reciting that certain persons are engaged in importing
into Florida citrus fruit and citrus juice produced and
canned elsewhere, and in labeling the same in Florida
whence it is sold, with the result that dealers are deceived
and producers and canners in Florida are injured, the
statute provides that every label upon any container of
canned citrus fruit or juice shall show accurately the
name of the State or country in which the fruit or juice
was produced, and that every container used for such
fruit or juice produced in Florida "shall have stamped
into or embossed upon the tin, glass or other substance
of which such container is mhde" the word "Florida,"
and it is made unlawful for anyone to use any container

POLK COMPANY v. GLOVER.
5

Opinion of the Court.

bearing the name "Florida" for any canned citrus fruit
or juice produced elsewhere. The Florida Citrus Commission-is authorized to prescribe the method of marking
the labels and embossing the containers. Violation of
the Act is punishable by imprisonment or fine, or both,
and by confiscation of all goods misbranded.
The Act was approved June 10, 1937, and provided that
it should take effect immediately. On September 4, 1937,
the Commission resolved that "for the present" it felt that
"an educational and adjustment period" was necessary
before the labeling provisions were enforced. On October
4, 1937, the Commission adopted regulations prescribing
the method of stamping or embossing the cans.
The bill of complaint set forth facts relating to the
character of the trade, the process of canning and the
trade practices as to labeling. It alleged that plaintiffs
were without knowledge as to the authority of the Commission to postpone the enforcement of the labeling provisions of the Act and had no assurance from any enforcement. officer that failure to comply therewith would
not result in criminal prosecution or in the confiscation
of products packed; that the "classification, sorting and
overprinting of both packer and private brand labels
now on hand" would result in immediate increased cost
to each of the plaintiffs in an amount in excess of $3,000;
that as to the required embossing, the statute made no
provision for the use of the tin containers not so embossed
which the plaintiffs had on hand in a value in excess of
$33,000; that these containers would no longer be usable
in the packing of canned citrus products if the statute
were enforced; that the embossing of the tin plate of
the can would cause what is known as "hydrogen flippers"
due to action of the acid in the fruit upon the sheet steel
underlying -the tin plate through the weakening or penetration of the tin covering; that this would result in "un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

told spoilage, swelling of cans, unmarketability and loss
of products, loss of consumers' good will, and other damage," in an amount not presently calculable; and that the
requirement of embossing would cause each of the plaintiffs a loss in excess of $3,000 because of the refusal of
distributors to purchase and handle cans so embossed.
The effect of the Act upon plaintiffs' trade was described
in support of the claim that the enforcement of its provisions would inflict immediate and irreparable injury.
Defendants, including the Florida Citrus Commission
(which intervened) and other officials, filed answers .putting in issue the allegations as to the injurious operation
of the statute. They also moved to dismiss the bill of
complaint upon the ground that it failed to state a cause
of action. On the application for interlocutory injunction, the parties submitted affidavits setting forth facts
in support of their respective contentions. At the same
time the court heard the motions to dismiss. Injunction
was denied, the motions to dismiss were granted, and a
final decree was entered accordingly. 22 F. Supp. 575.
This is a direct appeal from the decree of dismissal. 28
U. S. C. 380.
The District Court made findings. After reciting the
statements in the preamble of the statute, the court
found that no sufficient facts had been shown by affidavits or otherwise to overcome the findings of fact so
made by the legislature; that the statute was enacted in
pursuance of the police power of the State and that all
citrus fruit canners in Florida were affected by its provisions, without exceptions; that plaintiffs had on hand
unembossed containers of a value in excess of $33,000
which would no longer be usable if the Act were enforced,
but that "such containers could be used for packing of
vegetables or commodities other than citrus products"
and that there was no showing "that they could not be
exchanged with the manufacturer for properly embossed

POLK COMPANY v. CLOVER.
5

Opinion of the Court.

cans at little or no extra expense"; that if the practices
and abuses as found by the legislature were not stopped
"the price which the producer of citrus fruit grown in
Florida receives for his product will be greatly reduced"
and he will "ultimately be forced out of business"; that
it did not sufficiently appear that the embossing of cans
would be injurious or harmful to the citrus contents;
that, "apart from the conflicting affidavits, numerous embossed cans were produced before the court, some of
which were used for canning citrus products and there
was no showing that the contents of such cans had been
injuriously affected by the embossing."
At the same time the court made an order restraining
the enforcement of the statute pending this appeal, upon
the plaintiffs giving a bond. That order recited that the
court was of the opinion "that the questions involved are
novel and of great importance" and further that the
plaintiffs "will suffer irreparable loss and damage during
said appeal" if the Florida statute is enforced and this
Court should reverse the decree.
We are of the opinion that the District Court erred in
dismissing the bill of complaint. Plaintiffs (lid not submit the case to be decided upon the merits upon the bill,
answers and affidavits. Defendants' motion to dismiss,
like the demurrer for which it is a substitute (Equity
Rule 29) was addressed to the sufficiency of the allegations of the bill. For the purpose of that motion, the
facts set forth in the bill stood admitted. For the purpose of that motion, the court was confined to the bill
and was not at liberty to consider the affidavits or the
other evidence produced upon the application for an interlocutory injunction. But the findings of the court
indicate that that evidence, in part at least, underlay the
final decree it entered.
We think that the facts alleged in the bill were sufficient to entitle the plaintiffs to an opportunity to prove

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

their case, if they could, and that the court should not
have undertaken to dispose of the constitutional issues
(as to which we intimate no opinion) in advance of that
opportunity. The allegations of the bill as to trade conditions and practices, and as to the effect of the required
embossing of cans, raise particular questions which can
hardly be said to lie within the range of judicial notice.
The salutary principle that the essential facts should be
determined before passing upon grave constitutional
questions is applicable. See Borden's Farm ProductsCo. v.
Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194, 211-213, and cases cited. And
that determination requires a hearing in due course upon
the issues raised by the pleadings.
The decree is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting.

A Florida law designed to prevent fraud, requires that
citrus products grown and canned in Florida carry the
label "Made in Florida," and that containers of these
products be embossed with the single word, "Florida."
The majority do not decide that this state law violates
the Federal Constitution. Nor do they decide that proof
of the allegations of petitioners' bill of complaint will
show that the Florida law violates the Constitution.
While petitioners are held entitled to produce evidence,
they are not held entitled to relief if they prove their
entire bill. If on remand petitioners prove every allegation in their complaint, still-after time and state funds
have been spent in taking evidence-either the District
Court or this Court may decide that the complaint did
not allege facts sufficient to invalidate the law. In the
meantime, the State of Florida is forced to litigate the
validity of its duly enacted law, with no decision on its

POLK COMPANY v. GLOVER.
5

BLcK, J., dissenting.

substantial defense that petitioners' bill is wholly defective because of "insufficiency of fact to constitute a valid
cause of action" 1 or "failure to state a claim upon which
relief can be granted." '
The important consequences of this remand raise far
more than mere questions of procedure. State laws are
continually subjected to constitutional attacks by those
who do not wish to obey them. Accordingly, it becomes
increasingly important to protect state governments from
needless expensive burdens and suspensions of their laws
incident to federal court injunctions issued on allegations
that show no right to relief. The operation of this Florida law has been suspended. Complaints seeking to invalidate and suspend the operation of state laws by
invoking the "vague contours" of due process' can irreparably injure state governments if we accept as a "salutary principle" the rule that all such complaints-though
failing to state a cause of action-raise "grave constitutional questions" which require that "the essential facts
shall be determined." Under this declared "salutary
principle" specially applying to bills attacking the constitutionality of legislative acts, such bills must be defended against even though they fail to state a cause of
action. This is contrary to the traditional general rule
that fatally defective bills are dismissed on motion (formerly demurrer) in order to prevent needless litigation,
delay and expense. 4 The application of this special prin'Rule 29, Rules of Practice fop-the Courts of Equity of the United
States,
effective February 1, 1913.
2
Rule 12 (b), "Federal Rules of Civil Procedure."
* Cf. Mr. Justice Holmes dissenting in Adkins v. Children'sHospital,

261 U. S. 525, 568.
'Story's Equity Pleadings (10th ed.) §§ 446, 447, 526. The ".
proper rule of pleading would seem to be, that, when the case stated
by the bill appears to be one in which a court of equity will refuse
its aid, the defendant should be permitted to resist it by demurrer.
. .. 'If the case of the plaintiff as stated in the bill will not entitle

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

ciple to bills attacking State legislation seriously undermines the historical presumption of the validity of state
acts.5 A refusal to determine whether or not the allegations of the bill are sufficient to strike down an Act until
evidence has been heard adds a special burden to the defense of state legislation, as though legislation were to be
presumed invalid. I do not believe this principle leads
to salutary results and I am of the opinion that we should
now determine whether the allegations of the bill, if
proven, would entitle petitioners to relief.
The bill alleges that the Florida statute violates the
Commerce Clause of the Constitution ' and the Due
him to a decree, the judgment of the court may be required on
demuri*r whether the defendant ought to be compelled to answer
the bill' . . ." This principle is calculated "to save the parties from

useless expense and trouble in bringing it [a suit] to issue. .. "
Maxwell v. Kennedy, 8 How. 210, 222, 223; cf. Southern Pacific Co.
v. Campbell, 189 F. 182, aff'd 230 U. S. 537; Missouri Pacific R.
Co. v. Norwood, 42 F. 2d 765, aff'd 283 U. S. 249; Pacific States Co.
v. White, 9 F. Supp. 341, aff'd 296 U. S. 176; Isbrandtsen-Moller
Co. v. United States, 14 F. Supp. 407, aff'd 300 U. S. 139.
'See Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 270.
rthe complaint contains much by way of argument, assertions
as to questions of law together with inferences and conclusions of
the pleader as to matters of fact. These are not deemed to be
admitted by motion to dismiss.... The state laws [regulating. train
crews and assailed as violative of the Federal Constitution] are
The burden is on the plaintiff by candid and

presumed valid. ...

direct allegations to set forth in its complaint facts sufficient plainly
to show the asserted invalidity." Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Norwood,
283 U. S. 249, 254, 255. "Every exertion of the police power, either
by the legislature or by an administrative body, is an exercise of
delegated power. . .

."

Where "the regulation is within the scope of

authority legally delegated, the presumption of the existence of facts
justifying its specific exercise attaches alike to statutes, to municipal
ordinances, and to orders of administrative bodies." Pacific States
Co. v. White, 296 U. S. 176, 185, 186.
'The asserted conflict with the Commerce Clause does not rest
upon proof of fact. It must be decided by a comparison of the
Florida law and the Federal Pure Food and Drug Act and regulations

POLK COMPANY v. GLOVER.
5

BLACK, J., dissenting.

Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The
court below held in the alternative that petitioners failed
to make "sufficient showing either by affidavit or by the
allegations of the bill to uphold the contention that the
Act deprives the plaintiffs of their property without due
process of law."
Evei, according to the presently prevailing interpreta.tion of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, I do not believe that the averments of petitioners'
bill can sustain invalidation of this duly enacted Florida
statute. The statute contains a legislative finding that
"certain persons, firms and corporations in the State of
Florida" had engaged "in the practice" of deceiving customers into the belief that non-Florida canned citrus products had been produced in Florida. The legislature further found that this practice operated to "the injury and
detriment of the producers and canners of citrus fruit
and citrus juices in the State of Florida; . . ." and con-

cluded that an effective method to prevent this fraudulent practice was to require the publication of the truth
upon labels and containers. Averments of petitioners'
bill, in their strongest light, go no further than to deny
this legislative finding. They say to require publication
of the truth in this manner on the cans and labels is
burdensome "and violates the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. They further charge here that
this finding of -the legislature is a "feigned" assumption
and that "the facts alleged [in petitioners' bill] not only
show the nonexistence of any basis for such assumption
but demonstrate that the law will cause serious injury to
thereunder. That question can-and should-be decided now on the
allegations of the bill. The court below found no conflict and I agree
with its findings. See, Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 533.
"We may not test in the balances of judicial review the weight
and sufficincy of the facts to sustain the conclusion of the legislative
body, nor may we set aside the ordinance because compliance with
it is burdensome." Standard Oil Co. v. Marysville, 279 U. S. 582, 586.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACA,

J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

the packer and marked curtailment df the sale of citrus
products grown and canned in Florida." Petitioners'
argument for reversal largely involves "this disputed
question as to the existence of facts concerning the basis
for ,the law, and . . the preamble statement of the
alleged evil which gave rise to its enactment. . ....

Because, it is said, the embossing and labeling requirements raise grave constitutional issues, the State of
Florida will be required to defend against two issues
raised by petitioners' bill. The State must answer the
charges: first, that-contrary to the legislative findingthere was no fraudulent practice under which the dealers
in canned citrus products were led to believe that they
were buying Florida products when in fact the canned
goods were produced outside that State; second, that
truthful labeling and embossing as required by the statute would financially injure citrus growers, producers,
canners and the people of Florida rather than benefit
them as found by the legislature.
In attacking the legislative finding that the Act would
bestow benefits on the State of Florida, petitioners allege
that the law would require petitioners to spend extra
money for labels; might cause them to 'lose some business; would afford the opportunity for spoiling and swelling of some cans on the theory that embossing without
spoiling is difficult and could weaken the tin of containers
thereby permitting acid to corrode the steel underneath
-the tin; that petitioners will suffer loss because they have
on their hands cans that have not been embossed; and
that Florida already has laws adequate to protect itself
from fraudulent sales.
With reference to a state law regulating containers
(for lard) this Court has already said:
"This may involve a change of packing by the company and the cost of that change, but this is a sacrifice
'Armour & Co. v. North Dakota, 240 U. S. 510, 516.

POLK COMPANY v. GLOVER.
5

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

the law can require to protect from the deception of the
old method."
The real issue raised by petitioners' bill is not the cost
incident to changing from the old method of labeling and
embossing, but whether the Florida legislature--convinced that fraud existed-had the constitutional right to
determine the policy which it believed would protect the
people of Florida from that fraud. The cause is now sent
back to a federal District Court to review the facts under-lying the policy enacted into law by the legislature.
Under our constitutional plan of government, the exclusive power of determining the wisdom of this policy
rested with the legislature of Florida subject to the veto
power of Florida's governor.' This Court has taken judicial notice of the fact that citrus fruits support one of
the great industries of the State of Florida, and held that
it "was competent for the legislature [of Florida] to find
that it was essential for-the success of that industry that
its reputation be preserved in other States wherein such
fruits find their most extensive market." 10 The legislators of Florida are peculiarly qualified to determine the
'"The power of a State to prescribe standard containers in order
to facilitate trading, to preserve the condition of the merchandise,
to protect buyers from deception, or to prevent unfair competition is
conceded. Such regulation of trade is a part of the inspection laws;
was among the earliest exertions of the police power in America; has
been persistent; and has been widely applied to merchandise commonly sold in containers.
"Different types of commodities require different types of containers; and as to each commodity there may be reasonable difference of opinion as to the type best adapted to the protection of the
public. Whether it was necessary in Oregon [Florida?] to provide
a standard container for raspberries and strawberries [citrus products?]; and, if so, whether that adopted should have been made mandatory, involve questions of fact and of policy, the determiia*tion of
which rests in the legislative branch of the state government."
Pacific States Co. v. White, 296 U. S. 176, 181, 182.
" Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52, 61.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

policies relating to one of their State's greatest industries. Legislatures, under our system, determine the
necessity for regulatory laws, considering both the evil
and the benefits that may result. Unless prohibited by
constitutional limitations, their decisions as to policy are
final. In weighing conflicting arguments on the wisdom
of legislation they are not confined within the narrow
boundaries of a particular controversy between litigants.
Their inquiries are not subject to the strict rules of evidence which have been found essential in proceedings
before courts. Legislators may personally survey the field
and obtain data and a broad perspective which the necessary limitations of court litigation make impossible.
The legislative'history of the Florida statute under review indicates that it was given the careful and cautious
consideration which regulation of one of the State's major industries deserved.1 ' Companion measures were offered in the Florida House and Senate on the same dayApril 28, 1937. In the House the measure was referred
to the Committee on Citrus Fruits. The existence of such
a standing committee is itself indicative of a legislative
procedure designed to give careful consideration to legislation concerning this important industry. May 4, 1937,
the House Committee voted to report the bill favorably,
sixteen ayes, no nays, six members absent. June 1, the
bill was made the special order of business and on June
2, the companion Senate bill previously passed by that
body by a vote of twenty-four to one was substituted for
measure and passed by a vote of seventy to
the House
12
nothing.
1

As to an "added reason for applying the presumption of validity"
where a statute bnf'bcc i carefully enacted, compare, Pacific States
Co. v. Whjtt, supra, p. 186.
' Journal of the Senate of Florida, Reg. Sess. 1937, 508; Journal
of the House of Florida, Reg. Sess. 1937, 837.

POLK COMPANY v. GLOVER.
5

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

In the face of this history, petitioners insist that this
statute duly passed by the legislature and signed by the
Governor of Florida violates the Due Process Clause as
an unreasonable, capricious, unjust, harsh and arbitrary
measure. Therefore, if petitioners are to obtain relief
on this theory it must be found that this statute was
"fixed or arrived at through an exercise of will, or by
caprice, without consideration or adjustment with reference to principles, circumstances or significance"; or that
it was "despotic, autocratic [or] high-handed"; or that it
is "irrational, senseless" or passed by those "not endowed
with reasoning ability; non-conformable to reason"; or
that it is capricious or freakish which "denotes an impulsive seemingly causeless change of mind, like that of
a child or a lunatic." 18
The cause is remanded for the court below to determine
whether the legislative requirement that cans and labels
be truthfully marked is arbitrary, unreasonable, capricious, unjust or harsh. This makes it necessary for thecourt to weigh and pass upon the relative judgment, poise
and reasoning ability of the one legislator who voted
against the law, as contrasted with the ninety-four legislators and the governor who favored it. I do not believe
that obedience to this carefully considered legislative enactment would violate any of petitioners' property rights
without due process of law or that--even under prevailing doctrine-the averments of the complaint indicate
that no known or supposed facts could sustain it.1" The
allegations of the complaint in this cause raise no more
than questions of policy for legislative determination,
which the Florida legislature has already considered and
which can be presented to other legislatures in the future.
" See, Webster's New International Dictionary, 2nd ed., 1939.
14Cf., Standard Oil Co. v. Marysville, 279 U. S. 582; Hebe Co. v.
Show, 248 U. S. 297, 304.
1055: 7o-39

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

This case offers an appropriate opportunity to return

to the wholesome principle stated by this Court in 1888,
in Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 686, in. the
following language:
"If all that can be said of this legislation is that it is
unwise, or unnecessarily oppressive to those manufacturing or selling wholesome oleomargarine, as an article
of food, their appeal must be to the legislature, or to the
ballot-box, not to the judiciary. The latter cannot interfere without usurping powers committed to another
department of government."
The majority opinion apparently does not decide that
Florida has no power to require that the origin of citrus
products canned in Florida shall be truthfully shown. 5
Petitioners' bill insists that Florida exercised its power so
unwisely as to violate rights of property without due
process, because, as alleged, canning frauds did not exist,
and could be prevented by a wiser statute, less expensive
,and burdensome to petitioners. Thus they challenge
the wisdom of the Florida legislation. On remand of
petitioners' bill which fails to show that the Florida law
is invalid, may the Court, on evidence outside the bill,
hold that the law violates due process because the court
is convinced that the legislature might have chosen a
"Recognized elements of inspection laws have always been quality
of the article, form, capacity, dimensions, and weight of package,
mode of putting up, and marking and branding of various kinds,.. ."
In "the exercise of ...

[legislative]

discretion, and of ...

[a

State's] power to prescribe the method in which its products shall
be fitted for exportation, it may direct that a certain product, while it
remains 'in the bosom of the country' and before it has become an
article 'of foreign commerce or of commerce between the States,' shall
be encased in such a package as appears best fitted to secure the
safety of the package and to identify its contents as the growth of
the State, and may direct that the weight of the package, and the
name of the owner of its contents, shall be plainly marked on the
package, . .

."

Turier v. Maryland, 107 U. S. 38, 55, 57.

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. VIRGINIA.
Syllabus.

5

wiser, less expensive and less burdensome regulation? If
a court in this case and under this bill has this power, the
final determination of the wisdom and choice of legislative policy has passed from legislatures--elected by and
I believe, in
responsible to the people-to the courts.'
the language of the Powell case, supra, that since all
that has been "said of this legislation is that it is unwise,
or unnecessarily oppressive to those" canning citrus products, that petitioners' "appeal must be to the legislature,
. . . not to the judiciary." I would affirm.
GUARANTY TRUST CO., EXECUTOR, v.
VIRGINIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.

No. 9.

Argued October 11, 12, 1938.-Decided November 7, 1938.

1. The question whether a state statute providing for taxation of
trust income to the trustees when distribution by them is discretionary, and to the beneficiary when it is not, would operate to
deny equal protection if income of a discretionary trust were to be
taxed under it first to the trustee and again to the beneficiary
while income from ordinary trusts was taxed only once, does not
arise in a case where there has been but one tax imposed under
the statute,-the tax on the beneficiary-and when there is no
ground to suppose that the statute will be so construed and applied
by the state authorities as to result in double taxation. P. 23.
2. Virginia and New York both have laws taxing trust income to
the trustee when distribution is discretionary, but to the beneficiary
when it is not. Held that taxation of a citizen and resident of
Virginia upon income received there from a trust established and
"With

reference to a state law regulating labels and containers for

condensed milk, this Court said, "If the character or effect of the
article as intended to be used 'be debatable, the legislature is entitled
to its own judgment, and that judgment is not to be superseded by
the verdict of a jury,' or, we may add, by the personal opinion of
judges, 'upon the issue which the legislature has decided.'" Hebe Co.
v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 303.

