OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

PRINCESS LIDA OF THURN AND TAXIS
THOMPSON ET AL., TRUSTEES.

305 U. S.
ET AL. V.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 118. Argued November 17, 18, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.
1. The jurisdiction of the Court of Common Pleas of the State of
Pennsylvania under a bill to compel specific performance of an
agreement inter partes creating a trust ceased when the court's
decree requiring such performance was complied with and satisfied. P. 461.
2. Two surviving trustees of a voluntary trust filed an account, for
themselves and for a deceased trustee, in a Court of Common Pleas
of Pennsylvania. Thereafter, two of the five cestuis que trustent
sued the surviving trustees and the administrator of the deceased
one, in a federal court in Pennsylvania, charging mismanagement
and praying for an accounting and restitution, for removal of the
defendant trustees, and that all trustees under the agreement be
required to give bond, and for general relief. One of the other
beneficiaries appeared in the Common Pleas proceeding and excepted to the trustees' account. Held:
(1) That under Pennsylvania statutes, the state court, upon the
filing of the account, gained jurisdiction over the trust quasi in rem.
Shelby v. Bacon, 10 How. 56, limited. P. 462.
(2) That the federal court was without jurisdiction in the suit
before it, involving as it did control of the trust res and administration, already within the exclusive jurisdiction of the state court,
and was without power to enjoin parties from prosecuting the
state proceeding. P. 465.
(3) That the state court properly enjoined parties from further proceeding in the federal court. P. 467.
3. Where the judgment sought is strictly in personam, both the
state court and the federal court, having concurrent jurisdiction,
may proceed with the litigation at least until judgment is obtained
in one of them which may be set up as res judicata in the other.
P. 466.
4. But if the two suits are in rem, or quasi in rem, so that the court,
or its officer, has possession or must have control of the property
which is the subject of the litigation in order to proceed with the
cause and grant the relief sought, the jurisdiction of the one court
must yield to that of the other. Id.

PRINCESS LIDA v. THOMPSON.
456

Opinion of the Court.

The principle applicable to both federal and state courts that
the court first assuijug jurisdiction over property may maintain
and exercise that jurisdiction to the exclusion of the other, is not
restricted to cases where property has been actually seized under
judicial process before a second suit is instituted, but applies as
well where suits are brought to marshal assets, administer trusts,
or liquidate estates, and in suits of a similar nature where, to
give effect to its jurisdiction, the court must control the property.
Id.
An action in the federal court to establish the validity or the
amount of a claim, in respect of a trust, constitutes no interference
with the state court's possession or control of a res. Id.
329 Pa. 497; 198 A. 58, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 582, to review a decree which af-

firmed an order of a Court of Common Pleas of Pennsylvania enjoining the petitioners here from prosecuting
a suit in a federal court.
Mr. Charles H. Tuttle, with whom Mr. Gerald J.
Craugh was on the brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. Dean D. Sturgis and W. Brown Higbee for
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents the question whether the exercise of
jurisdiction by a state court over the administration of a
trust deprives a federal court of jurisdiction of a later suit
involving the same subject matter.
December 6, 1906, Gerald P. Fitzgerald, a citizen of
Ireland, and his wife Lida, entered into an agreement with
each other and with Josiah V. Thompson, Charles E. Lenhart, and Fitzgerald, as trustees, which recited the
marriage of the two first named, that they had three sons,
and that, on December 5, 1906, Lida had obtained a
decree of divorce in Ireland. The agreement provided

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

for payments of alimony by Gerald to Lida pending an
absolute divorce (which was eventually granted), and for
payments thereafter by Gerald to the trustees for the
benefit of Lida and the children, to be made out of his
share of the profits of two partnerships of which he was
a member. From these profits Gerald was to pay the
trustees for Lida's benefit an annuity of $15,000 for the
first three years and $20,000 thereafter. He was further
to pay any difference between the amount of the annuity
and one-third of his share of the profits annually until a
fund should be established in the hands of the trustees
amounting to $300,000, in which Lida, the sons, and
Gerald were given interests, either of income or principal
or both. In the event of death, resignation, or disability
of a trustee, or a successor trustee, the vacancy was to be
filled by appointment by the two remaining trustees, or,
on their failure to appoint, by the Court of Common Pleas
of Fayette County, Pennsylvania, on the petition of a remaining trustee or of Lida.
Lida and the three sons are living. Gerald has assigned
his interest in the trust to the Second National Bank of
Uniontown, Pennsylvania.
Gerald performed the agreement until June, 1910, when
lie repudiated it. Thompson, one of the trustees, Lida
and her sons, brought suit in equity in the Common Pleas
Court of Fayette County, Pennsylvania, seeking performance of the agreement by Gerald and other relief. Gerald
answered praying a declaration that the agreement was
void. After a hearing the court entered a decree sustaining the agreement; ordering Gerald to account and to pay
what might be shown to be due; removing him as a trustee; fixing a lien upon his partnership interests; and restraining him from encumbering or conveying them until
the $300;000 fund contemplated by the agreement should
be accumulated in the hands of the trustees.

PRINCESS LIDA v. THOMPSON.
456

Opinion of the Court.

In March, 1915, the trustees then in office petitioned
for leave to amend the agreement and for modification of
the earlier decree to provide that Gerald should pay and
secure to the trustees the payment of sums sufficient to
create two funds, one of $400,000 for Lida's benefit and
the other of $300,000 principally for the sons' benefit.
The court approved the petition and modified its former
decree accordingly. May 25, 1925, the trustees then in
office acknowledged receipt of all the sums due under the
decree of the court as modified and directed that satisfaction of the decree be entered of record. This was done
June 3, 1925.
October 9, 1925, the three acting trustees filed an account in the Common Pleas Court, which, in the absence
of exceptions, was confirmed. July 7, 1930, a second and
partial account was filed in the same court by two surviving trustees on behalf of themselves and a dleceased
trustee.
On the next day Lida and her son John brought suit in
equity in the United States District Court for the Western
District of Pennsylvania against the two trustees and the
administrators of the deceased trustee, alleging mismanagement of the trust funds and praying that the trustees
be removed and all the defendants be made to account and
repay the losses of the estate. Thereafter the Court of
Common Pleas extended the time for filing exceptions to
the second account and, on February 16, 1931, exceptions
were filed by Gerald P. Fitzgerald, Jr. Meantime the
trustees moved to dismiss the bill in the federal court
for lack of indispensable parties and because the state
court had exclusive jurisdiction of the controversy. May
12, 1931, the federal court refused the motion to dismiss
and required the defendants to answer, declaring that it
would not decide the question of jurisdiction until after
answers had been filed. May 18, 1931, the defendants

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

answered setting up that the controversy was within the
exclusive jurisdiction of the state court. Nothing further was done in the federal suit until April 17, 1937, when
the plaintiffs amended their bill. May 5, 1937, the trustees answered the amendment. Meantime, on May 1,
1937, the trustees had presented a petition in the state
court for a rule upon the plaintiffs in the District Court,
the petitioners herein, to show cause why they should not
be restrained from prosecuting their suit in the federal
court. After an answer by Lida denying that the Common Pleas Court had control or possession of the trust
funds or that any controversy was therein pending when
suit was instituted in the federal court, the rule was made
absolute June 17, 1937. July 6, 1937, John Fitzgerald, one
of the petitioners, applied to the federal court for an injunction to restrain the defendants in the case there pending, the respondents herein, from further prosecution of
the proceedings in the state court. On the same day the
petitioners took an appeal from the order of the Common
Pleas Court to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. July
19, 1937, the trustees filed in the Common Pleas Court
a third and partial account of the trust to which exceptions were filed. Testimony was thereafter taken on the
exceptions to the second account. September 18, 1937,
the federal court temporarily enjoined the defendants
in that court, the respondents herein, from further prosecution of the proceedings in the state court to enjoin the
plaintiffs, the petitioners herein, from having the jurisdictional issue tried in the District Court, and set November 8, 1937, for a trial of that issue. Trial was accordingly
had.
March 21, 1938, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
affirmed the order of the Common Pleas Court enjoining
the petitioners from prosecuting their suit in the District
Court,' and, on the same day, the District Court rendered
Thompson v. FitzGerald,329 Pa. 497; 198 AtI. 58.

PRINCESS LIDA v. THOMPSON.
456

Opinion of the Court.

an opinion holding it had jurisdiction notwithstanding the
proceedings in the Common Pleas Court. The District
Judge entered no decree but stated that requests for findings of fact, conclusions of law, and a form of decree,
might be submitted, and that he would proceed thereafter
to try the merits of the cause.
We are thus confronted with a situation where each of
the courts claiming jurisdiction has restrained the parties
before it from proceeding in the other. In view of this
unusual state of affairs, of the importance of the question
involved, and of the claim that the action of the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania is in conflict with our decisions,
we granted the writ of certiorari.
First. The suit brought in Common Pleas Court in 1910
was for the specific performance of the agreement of
December 6, 1906. The decree in that suit declared the
agreement valid and commanded performance in accordance with its terms. As the agreement called for a continuing performance, and the decree was for enforcement
of that performance, the court retained jurisdiction to
render the granted relief effective. It exercised this retained jurisdiction in 1915, when, by consent of the parties,
it modified its decree to comport with amendments of the
agreement. But the court's jurisdiction under the bill
ceased when Fitzgerald had completely performed in accordance with the amended decree of 1915, as evidenced
by the trustees' acknowledgment filed of record in the
court on June 3, 1925, that the terms of the decree had
been satisfied. The trust was created by agreement inter
partes, one of whom repudiated and failed to perform it.
When performance had been obtained the equity proceeding was at an end; the trust resin the hands of the
trustees, who were the creatures of the agreement, then
had the same status as if the court had never been called
upon to act.
Second. Although the agreement provided that vacancies occurring by death, resignation, or incapacity of a

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

trustee should be filled by the remaining trustees, and that
application to the Court of Common Pleas to appoint a
new trustee should only be made in the event the trustees
in office could not agree on the appointment of a successor,
it appears that from time to time trustees presented their
resignations to that court and the court purported to accept them. And when the remaining trustees appointed
new trustees to fill vacancies they reported their action
to the court which sometimes purported to confirm and
ratify that action. The record does not disclose that the
first method provided in the agreement for filling vacancies ever was impracticable, or that there was occasion
for resort to the court. The petitioners contend that in
the circumstances, the court's approval wAs unnecessary
and did not amount to an assumption of jurisdiction. We
find it unnecessary to pass upon the contention.
Third. The important questions are whether the filing
of the trustees' account on July 7, 1930, gave the Common Pleas Court jurisdiction, and, if so, what was the
nature and extent of that jurisdiction. The Court of
Common Pleas is given "the jurisdiction and powers of
a court of chancery, so far as relates to: . . . The
control, removal and discharge of trustees, and the appointment of trustees, and the settlement of their accounts." 2 Respecting the character of the jurisdiction
conferred by a statutory grant so phrased the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania has said: "The scope of supervisory control of necessity includes any matter which
concerns the integrity of the trust res-its administration, its preservation and its disposition and any other
matter wherein its officers [trustees] are affected in the
discharge of their duties."
This jurisdiction is vested
2

Act of June 16, 1836, P. L. 784, § 13; 17 P. S. § 281.

8 Wilson

v. Board of Directors of City Trusts, 324 Pa. 545, 551;
188 A. 588, 592.

PRINCESS LIDA v. THOMPSON.
456

Opinion of the Court.

in the court of common pleas of the county in which
"any such trustee shall have resided at the commencement of the trust." ' Two of the original trustees named
in the agreement were residents of Fayette County.
Two methods are provided for invoking the jurisdiction
with respect to the administration of the trust. The
court may cite the trustee on the application of any person in interest "to exhibit an account of the management of the trust estate." ' The trustee may, on the
other hand, obtain an adjudication of his management of
the trust by filing his account in the office of the prothonotary of the court and, upon such filing, proceedings
are to be had in the sane manner as if he had filed the
account under compulsion.' The trustee is permitted
to have an adjudication of his stewardship in this manner every three years.7
It thus appears that whether an account be filed pursuant to citation or as the voluntary act of the trustee
the jurisdiction of the court attaches and may be exercised over all the matters which fall within its supervisory control of the administration of the estate. The
' Act of June 14, 1836, P. L. 628, § 15; 20 P. S. § 2741; § 16, 20
P. S. § 2872; § 23, 20 P. S. § 2767; Act of May 1, 1861, P. L. 680,

§ 1; 20 P. S. § 2871.
'Act of June 14, 1836, P. L. 628, § 19; 20 P. S. § 2833.
'Act of June 14, 1836, P. L. 628 § 14; 20 P. S. § 2925.
7 "All trustees of estates . . .may hereafter, triennially, from the
date of their appointment, file their accounts in the appropriate
courts, which shall be duly audited, and confirmed absolutely to that
date: .. .provided further, That due and actual notice shall have

been given, where the acount shall be filed by a trustee, to all persons
interested in the estate, under the terms and provisions of the trust;
... and that advertisement shall have been duly made of the
filing of said account; and that such persons, actually nntified, are
legally competent and qualified, either personally or by their guardians, to appear in court and object to said account if they so desire."
Act of May 3, 1909, P. L. 391,.§ 1; 20 P. S.§ 2853.
,

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

court has the power to fix the compensation of the trustee, 8 to require him to take over from the trust investments improperly made and to restore the amount expended for them to the trust estate, 9 to surcharge him
with losses incurred, to allow him his proper expenses,
to find against him a balance due the estate, and to make
the balance found due a lien upon his real estate." In
the case of a continuing trust such as that here in question, after adjudication, the corpus is reawarded to the
trustee for further administration in accordance with the
terms of the trust. In the case of an account filed at
the close of administration the court has power to decree distribution to the parties entitled. Under the
equity powers conferred upon it the court may enforce
its orders against a trustee by attachment for contempt."
The jurisdiction extends to a trust like the present created by deed or voluntary agreement."2 The audit and
confirmation of the account is to be had after advertisement and other forms of notice and is binding on all those
anywise interested in the estate who have had the required statutory notice of the audit. 8 The parties in in8

Act of June 14, 1836, P. L. 628, § 29; 20 P. S. 3271.
See the opinion below, 329 Pa. 512; 198 A. 58.
Act of April 30, 1855, P. L. 386, § 1; 20 P. S. § 2854.
"Chew's Appeal, 44 Pa. 247; Scott v. Jailer, 1 Grant 237; Morrison v. Blake (No. 1) 33 Pa. Super. Ct. 290, 297; Commonwealth v.
Heston, 292 Pa. 63, 68; 146 A. 533.
12 See Baskin's Appeal, 34 Pa. 272; Jones' Estate, 15 Pa. Dist. Rep.
30; In re Weiser Trust, 23 York 80; Ball's Estate, 220 Pa. 399; 69 A.
817.
13 The petitioners lay stress on an averment in the answer filed in
the Common Pleas Court to the trustees' petition for a rule to show
cause why the petitioners should not be restrained from prosecuting
their suit in the federal court. This is to the effect that the trustees'
accounts had been "filed without notice to the" petitioners. No
notice of the intention to file is required. Notice is to be given to the
parties in interest that the account has been filed and will be audited.
There is no averment that the beneficiaries of the trust did not receive
such notice.

PRINCESS LIDA v. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

456

terest are permitted by exception and objection to the
account to raise all pertinent questions respecting the
management of the trust, and to invoke the powers of
the court over the subjects above mentioned.1 4 The
audit will further disclose whether there be probable
ground for the removal of the trustee and the appointment of another in his place and if that be done the court
has jurisdiction to compel the removed trustee to transfer
the trust assets to his successor.
It is obvious that the filing of their account on July
7, 1930, subjected the respondents, as the trustees then
in office, to the exercise of the powers thus conferred upon
the Court of Common Pleas.
We turn to the suit instituted in the District Court to
ascertain what relief was there sought. In the bill as
originally filed sundry investments made by the trustees
were attacked and they were charged with mismanagement of the estate. The prayers were that they be cited
to file an account of the trust; that they be removed;
that all trustees under the agreement be required to give
bond for the faithful performance of their duties; and
for general relief. By the amended bill additional trust
investments were attacked. New prayers were substituted asking that the defendants be required to answer,
to restore to the trust funds the moneys lost by their
illegal and negligent conduct; that they be removed;
that all trustees be required to give bond; and for general relief.
The plaintiffs in the District Court were but two of
the five cestuis. One of the others has appeared in the
Common Pleas proceeding and excepted to the trustees'
accounts. Certain it is, therefore, that if both courts
were to proceed they would be required to cover the same
ground. This of itself is not conclusive of the question
14

Compare Moore's Appeal, 10 Pa. 435;

McLellan's Appeal

(No. 1), 76 Pa. 231; Commonwealth v. Trout, 76 Pa. 379.
10n5537

-

-:s

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

of the District Court's jurisdiction, for it is settled that
where the judgment sought is strictly in personam, both
the state court and the federal court, having concurrent
jurisdiction, may proceed with the litigation at least until
judgment is obtained in one of them which may be set
up as res judicata in the other." On' the other hand,
if the two suits are in rem, or quasi in rem, so that the
court, or its officer, has possession or must have control
of the property which is the subject of the litigation in
order to proceed with the cause and grant the relief
sought the jurisdiction of the one court must yield to
that of the other.'" We have said that the principle applicable to both federal and state courts that the court
first assuming jurisdiction over property may maintain
and exercise that jurisdiction to the exclusion of the other,
is not restricted to cases where property has been actually
seized under judicial process before a second suit is instituted, but applies as well where suits are brought to
marshal assets, administer trusts, or liquidate estates, and
in suits of a similar nature where, to give effect to its
jurisdiction, the court must control the property." The
doctrine is necessary to the harmonious cooperation of
federal and state tribunals. 8 While it has no application
to a case in a federal court based upon diversity of citizenship, wherein the plaintiff seeks merely an adjudication of his right or his interest as a basis of a claim
against a fund in the possession of a state court," this is
' Penn General Casualty Co. v. Pennsylvania, 294 U. S. 189, 195,
and cited cases.

1,Ibid.

17Farmers' Loan & T. Co. v. Lake Street E.R. Co., 177 U. S. 51,
61; Palmer v. Texas, 212 U. S. 118, 129; United States v. Bank of
New York & T. Co., 296 U. S. 463, 477.
18 United States v. Bank of New York & Trust Co., supra, 478,
and cases cited.
10 Commonwealth Trust Co. v. Bradford, 297 U. S. 613, 619, and
cases cited.

PRINCESS LIDA v. THOMPSON.
456

Opinion of the Court.

not such a case. No question is presented in the federal court as to the right of any person to participate in
the res or as to the quantum of his interest in it. The
contentions are solely as to administration and restoration
of corpus.
Petitioners insist that Shelby v. Bacon, 10 How. 56, is
conclusive that, under the law of Pennsylvania, the filing
of an account on July 7, 1930, did not constitute the institution of a suit by the trustees, did not confer exclusive
jurisdiction on the state court and did not bar the subsequent institution of a suit in the federal court for the
same relief. In this we think they are in error. What
was there said by this court to the effect that the filing of
an account in the state court did not constitute a suit
and did not confer jurisdiction on the state court, was not
necessary to the decision and is not in accord with the
law of Pennsylvania as declared by its own Suprene
Court."0 Assuming, however, that the state court had
jurisdiction, this court held merely that the plaintiff had
a right to establish his claim by suit in the Circuit Court
notwithstanding the state court's jurisdiction over the
trust. The court was careful to say that it was unnecessary to consider questions which might arise in the
exercise of the jurisdiction of the federal court. The
decision is in entire accord with many cases which hold
that an action in the federal court to establish the validity or the amount of a claim constitutes no interference
with a state court's possession or control of a res.
The Common Pleas Court could not effectively exercise
the jurisdiction vested in it, without a substantial measure of control of the trust funds. Its proceedings are,
as the court below held, quasi in rem, and the jurisdiction
acquired upon the filing of the trustees' account is exclusive. The District Court for the Western District of
20 Whitney's Appeal, 22 Pa. 500, 505.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

305 U. S.

Pennsylvania is without jurisdiction of the suit subsequently brought for the same relief, and the petitioners
were properly enjoined from further proceeding in that
court.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. OWENS ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 180. Argued December 9, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.
1. Under the Revenue Acts of 1932 and 1934, the basis for determining the amount of a loss sustained during the taxable year,
arising from damage by casualty to property not used in the
taxpayer's trade or business (as to which class of property no
annual deductions for depreciation are allowed), is not the cost
of the property but its value immediately before the casualty.
P. 471.
2. In computing under the Revenue Act of 1934 the amount of the
deduction for losses sustained during the taxable year from the
sale or other disposition of property, § 113 (b) (1) (B)-and the
corresponding provision of the 1932 Act-must be read as a
limitation upon the amount of the deduction so that it may not
exceed cost, and in the case of depreciable nonbusiness property
may not exceed the amount of the loss actually sustained in the
taxable year, mieasured by the then depreciated value of the
property. P. 471.
95 F. 2d 318, reversed.
97 F. 2d 431, affirmed.

post, pp. 582, 585, to review, in No. 180, the
affirmance, and in No. 318, the reversal, of decisions of
CERTIORARI,

the Board of Tax Appeals in favor of the taxpayers.
* Together with No. 318, Obici et al. v. Helvering, Commissioner

of Internal Revenue, on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.

