CALIFORNIA v. LATIMER.
251

Syllabus.

and the application of this to the facts there disclosed,
it seems plain enough that just before he entered the
garage the following officers properly could have stopped
petitioner's car, made search and put him under arrest.
So much was not seriously controverted at the argument.
Passage of the car into the open garage closely followed by the observing officer did not destroy this right.
No search was made of the garage. Examination of the
automobile accompanied an arrest, without objection and
upon admission of probable guilt. The officers did
nothing either unreasonable or oppressive. Agnello v.
United States, 269 U. S. 20, 30; Wisniewski v. United
States, 47 F. 2d 825, 826.
The challenged judgment is
Affirmed.

CALIFORNIA v. LATIMER
No. 13, Original.

ET AL.

Argued November 7, 1938.-Decided December 5,
1938.

A bill filed here by California against the members of the Railroad
Retirement Board and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, to
enjoin them from enforcing against the State Belt Railroad-a
railroad on the San Francisco water front, owned by the State, and
operated by it in interstate commerce-the provisions of the Railroad Retirement Acts of 19.35 and 1937 and of the Carriers Taxing
Act of 1937, held without equity.
1. An alleged threat of the Railroad Retirement Board to require the
State Belt Railroad to gather and keep records of its employees,
does not expose it to irreparable injury. P. 259.
(a) A general allegation without supporting detail or specification that compliance with regulations of the Board would subject
the State "to great expense" is not an adequate basis for relief on
the ground of irreparable injury. P. 260.
(b) Moreover, the Board is without power to enforce its regulations except by resort to legal proceedings, and therein the State
would have ample opportunity to challenge the enforcement of the
Acts. P. 260.

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Counsel for Parties.

305 U. S.

(c) The contention that the possible penalty, in case of a prosecution under § 13 of the Retirement Act of 1937, is so serious that
the opportunity to defend would not be an adequate remedy, is
examined and rejected. P. 261.
2. The threat of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to require
payment of the tax does not sufficiently show danger of irreparable
injury. P. 261.
(a) Payment, if not due, could be recovered. P. 261.
(b) Possible delay in recovery of payment-suit could not be
instituted until six months after claim for refund was made, if the
Commissioner failed earlier to act upon it-is not a special circumstance justifying resort to a suit for an injunction in order that the
question of liability may be promptly determined. P. 261.
(c) The contentions of the State that to raise the money with
which to pay the State's portion of the tax it would be necessary to
readjust the tariffs of the railroad, and that the deduction of the
employees' portion from the payroll would result in a multiplicity"
of suits by employees to fix their rights under the state retirement law, held not sufficiently supported in the bill. P. 262.
(d) Mere inconvenience to the State in raising the money to
pay the taxes does not entitle it to an injunction to test the
validity or applicability of the tax. P. 262.
Bill dismissed.

BILL of complaint filed by California, by leave of Court,
in a suit invoking the original jurisdiction of this Court,
against members of the Railroad Retirement Board and
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to enjoin enforcement of provisions of the Railroad Retirement Acts of
1935 and 1937 and the Carriers Taxing Act of 1937.
Mr. Lucas E. Kilkenny, Deputy Attorney General of
California, with whom Messrs. U. S. Webb, Attorney
General, H. H. Linney and James J. Arditto, Deputy
Attorneys General, were on the brief, for complainant.
Mr. Warner W. Gardner, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, Assistant
Attorney General Morris, and Messis. Sewall Key, John
J. Abt, Arnold Raum, and Lester P. Schoene were on the
brief, for defendants.

CALIFORNIA v. LATIMER.
Opinion of the Court.

255

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
California owns the railroad along the San Francisco
water front known as State Belt Railroad, and operates
it in interstate commerce. Sherman v. United States,
282 U. S. 25; United States v. California, 297 U. S. 175.
On leave granted, the State filed in this Court this bill
against the members of the Railroad Retirement Board
and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, individually
and in their official capacities, to enjoin them from enforcing against that railroad provisions of the Acts of
Congress known as the Railroad Retirement Acts of 1935
and 1937 1 and of the Carriers Taxing Act of 19372
The bill recites that California has a State Employees'
Retirement system sustained by a fund to which the State
and its employees contribute; and that all the persons
employed in the operation of State Belt Railroad are
members of that retirement system and are entitled to
pensions thereunder, unless they are members of a retirement system supported wholly, or in part, by funds
of the United States; that the three Acts of Congress
named have for their sole purpose the establishment of a
pension system of annuities and other benefits for employees of interstate railroads; and that the federal system is sustained by taxes imposed by the Carriers Taxing Act. The bill asserts, apparently, that as a matter of
statutory construction, the federal system is not applicable to the employees of State Belt Railroad; and apparently that if construed as applicable to them, the
legislation is unconstitutional. The bill charges that the
Railroad Retirement Board has threatened to require the
complainant to gather and keep records concerning the
'Act of August 29, 1935, c. 812, 49 Stat. 967, as amended June 24,
1937, c. 382, Part I, 50 Stat. 307, 45 U. S. C., § 228a-r (1937 Supp.).

2Act of June 29, 1937, c. 405, 50 Stat. 435, 45 U. S. C., §§ 261-73
(1937 Supp.).
105537 °-30-17

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

employees of the State Belt Railroad, which would subject it "to great expense"; and that the Board "will enforce against the complainant, its officers, agents, and
employees certain penalties if it refuses" to do so. The
bill charges, also, that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue has threatened to enforce taxes, under the Carriers
Taxing Act, and will subject it to heavy fines and penalties if it fails to pay the same. The relief prayed is
that the three Acts of Congress be declared inapplicable
to State Belt Railroad; that the members of the Railroad Retirement Board be enjoined, among other things,
from requiring the railroad to assemble and furnish the
information requested; and that the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue be enjoined from enforcing collection
of the taxes claimed.
The defendants moved to dismiss the bill, assigning
therefor nine grounds. We need consider only the objection that the bill is without equity.' For we are of opin"This objection was the basis of two of the reasons given in support
of the motion to dismiss. The other seven are: (1) The individual
citizenship of defendants can form no basis for the original jurisdiction of the Court. The defendants can and will act only as officials
of the United States; and as officials they are citizens of no state.
(2) The Collector of Internal Revenue for the First District of California and the employees of the State Belt Railroad have not been
joined as defendants. They are indispensable parties in whose absence
the Court should not proceed. (3) The cause is not maintainable in
this Court, since the Collector of Internal Revenue for the First District of California, a citizen of California, should be made a party, and
to join him would deprive the Court of original jurisdiction. (4) The
cause is not maintainable in this Court, since the employees of the
State Belt Railroad, citizens of California, should be made parties, and
to join any of them would deprive the Court of original jurisdiction.
(5) Maintenance of the suit is prohibited by Section 3224 of the Revised Statutes. (6) The United States is the real party in interest
and hence an indispensable party. (7) The issues presented by complainant have been clearly decided against it by previous decisions of
this Court, and a re-examination of those contentions would serve no
useful purpose.

CALIFORNIA v. LATIMER.
255

Opinion of the Court.

ion that there was adequate opportunity to test at law
the applicability and constitutionality of the Acts of Congress; and that no danger is shown of irreparable injury
if that course is pursued.
First. The alleged threat of the Railroad Retirement
Board to require State Belt Railroad to gather and keep
records of its employees does not expose it to irreparable
injury. The Railroad Retirement Act of 1937 provides:
"Sec. 8. Employers shall file with the Board, in such
manner and form and at such times as the Board by rules
and regulations may prescribe, returns under oath of
monthly compensation of employees, and, if the Board
shall so require, shall furnish employees with statements
of their monthly compensation as reported to the
Board ...
"Sec. 10 (b) 4 ....
The Board shall have power to require all employers and employees and any officer, board,
commission, or other agency of the United States to furnish such information and records as shall be necessary
for the administration of such Acts. The several district
courts of the United States and the District Court of the
United States for the District of Columbia shall have
jurisdiction upon suit by the Board to compel obedience
to any order of the Board issued pursuant to this section . . ."
"Sec. 13. Any officer or agent of an employer . . .who
shall willfully fail or refuse to make any report or furnish
any information required, in accordance with the provisions of section 10 (b) 4, by the Board . . . shall be punished by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by imprisonment not exceeding one year."
The only "threats" made against the complainant in
connection with these sections is a ruling by the Railroad Retirement Board that the State Belt Railroad is
subject to the Railroad Retirement Acts. No specific action in relation to that railroad appears to have been taken

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

by the Board.4 Regulations have been prescribed under
§§ 8 and 10 which are simple and of a type which
can be complied with largely by transcriptions from payrolls.' The bill alleges that compliance with the regulations would subject the State "to great expense." No supporting detail or specification is given. Such a general
statement is not an adequate basis for relief on the ground
of irreparable damages.' The trifling expense of temporarily complying with the regulation until the applicability of the Act shall have been judicially determined,
like the expense of the administrative hearings complained of in Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 303
U. S. 41, 50, 51, and Petroleum Exploration, Inc. v. Public Service Comm'n, 304 U. S. 209, 220, 221, is not sufficient to support the claim of irreparable injury indispensable to interposition by injunction. Compare Spielman Motor Sales Co. v. Dodge, 295 U. S. 89, 95, 96.
Moreover, the Board is without power to enforce its
regulations except by resort to legal proceedings, as provided in § 10 (b) 4; and in any suit which it may institute
to enforce the regulations "ample opportunity is afforded
to defend, on the ground that State Belt Railroad is not
subject to the Railroad Retirement Acts. It is contended
'Compare Dalton Adding Machine Co. v. State Corporation
Comm'n, 236 U. S. 699, 701; Continental Baking Co. v. Woodring,
286 U. S. 352, 367-68; State CorporationComm'n v. Wichita Gas Co.,
290 U. S. 561, 568-69.
'3 Federal Register, p. 22 et seq. (promulgated December 31, 1937),
3 Federal Register, p. 218 (promulgated January 17, 1938), in effect
at the time leave to file the bill of complaint was granted, May 16,
1938, later superseded by 3 Federal Register, pp. 1478, 1493 et seq.,
Part 50 (promulgated May 31, 1938).
'Compare Shelton v. Platt, 139 U. S. 591, 596; Cruickshank v.
Bidwell, 176 U. S. 73, 81; Indiana Mfg. Co. v. Koehne, 188 U. S. 681,
690; Boise Artesian Water Co. v. Boise City, 213 U. S. 276, 285.
' Compare Cavanaugh v. Looney, 248 U. S. 453; Fenner v. Boykin, 271 U. S. 240; Hurley v. Kincaid, 285 U. S. 95.

CALIFORNIA v. LATIMER.
255

Opinion of the Court.

that the possible penalty, in case of a prosecution under
§ 13, is so serious as to prevent the opportunity to defend
from being an adequate remedy. Compare Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S. 123, 165. No prosecution has been
instituted or threatened. And authority to institute such
a proceeding rests not with the Railroad Retirement
Board, but with the United States Attorney for the
Northern District of California, who is not made defendant in this suit.8 Furthermore, it may be doubted
whether a refusal to comply with the regulation would be
deemed willful, if based on an honest belief that the Act
is not applicable to a railroad operated by the State.
Compare United States v. Murdock, 290 U. S. 389, 394396.
Second. The alleged threat of the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue to require payment of the tax does not
show danger of irreparable injury. The only threat
alleged is the ruling that the Carriers Taxing Act is applicable to this railroad-a ruling made in answer to an
enquiry by the Attorney General of the State. The tax
for the year is $7,862.32 payable by the State Belt Railroad; and an equal amount payable by the employees to
be deducted by it from their compensation. Payment of
the tax would not expose the State to irreparable injury,"
since the amount paid with interest could be recovered if
not due. Payment followed by proceedings to recover the
amount would involve some delay, as an action at law
to recover the sum paid could not be instituted until six
months after making the claim for refund, if the Commissioner should fail to act earlier upon it."0 Such possible
delay, it is urged, is a special circumstance which justifies
resort to a suit for an injunction in order that the quesCompare Federal Trade Comm'n v. Claire Furnace Co., 274 U. S.
160, 173-74; Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, 620-22.
'Dows v. Chicago, 11 Wall. 108. See also cases in Note 6.
10 R. S. § 3226, as amended by § 1103, Revenue Act of 1932.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

tion of liability may be promptly determined. If the
delay incident to such proceedings justified refusal to pay
a tax, the federal rule that a suit in equity will not lie to
restrain collection on the sole ground that the tax is
illegal, 1 ' could have little application. For possible delay
of that character is the common incident of practically
every contest over the validity of a federal tax.
It is urged that in order to raise the money with which
to pay the State's portion of the tax, it would be necessary
to readjust the tariffs of State Belt Railroad; and that the
deduction of the employees' portion from the payroll
would result in a multiplicity of suits by employees to
recover the amounts and to re~stablish their rights and
privileges under the laws of the State. The meagre state-.
ments of the bill do not convince us that the apprehension
alleged is well founded. The State Employees Retirement Act also requires the State Belt Railroad to make
deductions from the salaries of its employees. The bill
does not show the precise relationship between the
amounts required to be deducted by the state and federal
acts, or even, if the amount of the federal deduction is
greater, that it is impossible for the State Belt Railroad
to work out with its employees a way of adjusting its
affairs during the period of uncertainty as to which act is
applicable. Mere inconvenience to the taxpayer in raising the money with which to pay taxes is not uncommon,
and is not a special circumstance which entitles one to
resort to a suit for an injunction in order to test the
validity or applicability of the tax. For aught that appears prompt payment of the tax and claim of refund
would have led to an early determination of the liability
here contested.
Bill dismissed.
See cases under Note 6.

