OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

305 U. S.

WELCH v. HENRY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 13.

Argued October 13, 1938.-Decided November 21, 1938.

1. Under the income tax law of Wisconsin in force in 1933 and since,
the amount of dividends received by a taxpayer from corporations
whose "principal business" is "attributable to Wisconsin," i. e.,
corporations which themselves have paid a Wisconsin income tax
upon 50% or more of their total net income, may be deducted
from gross income along with other deductions, in computing his
taxable net income. A taxpayer, in his return for the year 1933,
filed in M\arch, 1935, made these deductions, the aggregate of which
was such that he had no taxable income for that year. A year later,
1933
a statute was passed laying a tax on all dividends received ill
which, when received, were deductible from gross income. The
taxpayer was thus required to pay a tax of $545 on his dividend
income in 1933. Held consistent with equal protection and due
process under the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 142, 146.
2. The fact that the dividends were taxed at a different rate from
that applied to other income in 1933 and were given the benefit of
but a single deduction of $750, while recipients of other types of
income in that year were permitted to deduct specified items of
interest, taxes, business losses and donations, did not render the
dividend tax repugnant to the equal protection clause. P. 142.
The dividends constituted a class of untaxed income, received
from a specified category of corporations; and the legislature could
have concluded that a substantial part of this income had borne
no tax burden at its source in the earnings of the corporations,
since corporations were not required to pay a tax on that part of
their income allocable to business carried on or property located
without the State. The selection of such income for taxation at
rates and with deductions not shown to be unrelated to an equitable distribution of the tax burden is not a denial of the equal
protection commanded by the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 143.
3. The distribution of a tax burden by placing it in part on a special
class which, by reason of the taxing' policy of the State, has
escaped all taxation during the taxable period is not a denial of
equal protection; nor is the tax any more a denial of equal
protection because retroactive. P. 144.
4. So far as equal protection is concerned, the validity of retroactive
alteration of a tax scheme must be determined, as in the case of
any other tax, by ascertaining whether the thing taxed falls within

WELCH v. HENRY.
134

Statement of the Case.

a distinct class which may rationally be treated differently from
other classes. P. 145.
5. In the absence of facts tending to show that the taxing act is a
hostile or oppressive discrimination against the recipients of dividends who have hitherto escaped all taxation of them, it does not
deny equal protection. P. 146.
6. A tax is not necessarily in violation of the due process clause because retroactive. In each case it is necessary to consider the nature of the tax and the circumstances in which it is laid before it
can be said that its retroactive application is so harsh and oppressive as to transgress the constitutional li'itation. P. 146.
Cases distinguished in which this Court has held invalid the taxation of gifts made and completely vested before the enactment of
the taxing statute, decision there having been rested upon the
ground that the nature or amount of the tax could not reasonably
have been anticipated by the taxpayer at the time of the particular
voluntary act which the statute later made the taxable event.
Unlike the case of gifts which the donor might have refrained from
making had he anticipated the tax, it cannot be assumed that stockholders would refuse to receive dividends even if they knew that
the receipt would later be subjected to a new tax or to the increase
of an old one, and the objection to the present tax is addressed only
to the particular inconvenience of the taxpayer in being called upon,
after the customary- time for levy and payment of the tax has
passed, to bear a governmental burden of which it is said he had no
warning and which he did not anticipate.
7. Taxpaybrs can not justly assert surprise or complain of arbitrary
action in the retroactive apportionment of tax burdens to income
when this is done by the legislature at the first opportunity after
knowledge of the nature and amount of the income is available.
P. 149.
In the present case the returns of income received in 1933 were
filed and became available in March, 1934. The next succeeding
session of the legislature at which tax legislation could be considered
was in 1935, when the challenged statute was passed. P. 150.
226 Wis. 595; 277 N. W. 183, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment sustaining an income tax, the
amount of which the present appellant paid under protest and sued to recover. The trial court had at first overruled a demurrer to the complaint. The ruling was
reversed by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin on a first
appeal. The trial court then sustained a demurrer to an

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Appellant.

305 U. S.

amended complaint. Judgment of the Supreme Court
affirming this action is the subject of the present appeal
to this Court.
Mr. John M. Campbell for appellant.
There was no reasonable ground for classifying the recipients of dividends separately and subjecting them to a
separate and distinct tax.
If this so-called "evemption" from normal tax can be
made the basis of a classification at all, there should be
some relation between the amount of taxes exacted from
this class and the benefits which have accrued to them by
reason of having been allowed the deduction for purposes
of normal tax, particularly when the exemption is the
only basis for the classification.
The tax here involved is measured by nothing except
the amount of dividends received and bears not the
slightest relation to the net income of the taxpayer from
all sources, which is the subject of the normal tax, or to
the amount of tax he would have been required to pay
had dividends been included in the determination of his
income subject to normal tax. Whatever may be said
in favor of this classification for purposes of a tax measured by including dividends in taxable income during
1933, there is gross discrimination in subjecting that
class to a tax measured only by the amount of dividends
regardless of the effect of other transactions of the taxpayer upon his taxable income, or upon the amount of
normal tax which he would have been required to pay
had the dividends been included in his income subject
to such normal tax. This manifestly results in great discrepancies between the amount of dividend tax and the
normal tax upon a like amount of net income. The
appellant, who received dividends of $12,156.10, was called
upon for a tax of $556.84. Normal income tax and surtax upon that same amount of net income would have
been $468.42 less his exemption.

WELCH v. HENRY.
134

Argument for Appellant.

It is true, as was pointed out by the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin, that this is not necessarily a fair comparison,
because the taxpayer's dividends might come in on top of
other income and, if subjected to normal tax, result in a
higher tax than the tax actually imposed. Here, however, and in the case of many other taxpayers, the existence of business losses, the payment of taxes and interest,
and other deductions, give the taxpayer a net loss for
purposes of normal tax, no part of which is allowed to be
set off against the tax now imposed.
The true nature of the tax, as a property tax, or an
excise, makes it arbitrary and discriminatory because of
the graduated rates.
The tax is not one measured by a balancing of the
net results of all the taxpayer's business transactions for
the year. It is not a tax upon income, meaning thereby
the gain or profit to the taxpayer from all of his business transactions as that term is used, for instance, in
connection with federal income tax or the Wisconsin
normal income tax. It is not laid upon what remains
when "all expenses are paid and losses adjusted, and after
the recipient of the income is free to use it as he chooses."
Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165, 175; Redfield v. Fisher,
135 Ore. 180; Shaffer v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37, 51; New
York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S. 308, 313.
Even if it is true that the gross income from dividends
may be considered as net income, the fact remains that
when you measure the tax by receipts, whether gross or
net, from some particular source, you are taxing something other than the net income of the taxpayer from all
his activities during the taxable year. United States v.
Hudson, 299 U. S. 498, distinguished.
When the real nature and effect of the tax are considered, it is to all practical intents and purposes a property tax. There is only one measure of it, the amount
of dividends received by the taxpayer from stock. To

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Appellant.

305 U. S.

pick out this one source of receipts and levy a tax upon
them is to directly tax the property from which the
receipts are secured.
It is assumed that there may be a valid classification of
property for purposes of taxation, but the application to
the property in that class of varying rates results in an
indefensible discrimination. The taxpayer who owns a
thousand shares of stock and receives the dividends
thereon, by that fact alone is required to pay a greater
number of dollars per share owned than another .taxpayer
who owns but a hundred shares of that same stock.
&tewart Dry-Goods Co. v. Lewis, 294 U. S. 550.
The case for the constitutionality of this tax is not improved by considering it as an excise tax. It is a tax which
bears no relation to the ability of the taxpayer to pay or
to his net income from all sources. It is a tax upon the
receipts, whether gross or net, from a particular source.
Schuster v. Henry, 218 Wise. 506.
The retroactive effect of the tax 'enders it arbitrary and
discriminatory.
It purports to assess a tax based upon something that
happened in the second preceding year and goes much
farther in that regard than any such taxing measures that
have come to our attention. Distinguishing: Florida
Central R. Co. v. Reynolds, 183 U. S. 471; Hecht v.
Malley, 265 U. S. 144; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220
U. S. 107. It is simply a tax authorized and levied during 1935 upon dividends which under the long existing
policy of the State had not been subjected to tax at all at
the time they were received.
Its retrospective operation accentuates the discriminatory nature of the tax. Even if it were entirely proper to
classify recipients of dividends in a separate class and
subject them to a separate and distinct tax, it would not
follow that it would likewise be proper to constitute a

WELCH v. HENRY.
134

Argument for Appellant.

separate class composed of those who had received dividends in the past.
The present tax was imposed in 1935 upon dividends
received in 1933. During 1933, the taxpayer had no
intimation that he would be called upon for a tax out of
them. He filed his return in March of 1934 reporting the
receipt of these dividends and still no tax was demanded
from him on account thereof. The entire year 1934 went
by and still no tax was demanded. In the meantime his
ability to pay had been subjected to the results of whatever business transactions he had during 1934. In March
of 1935 the State changed its mind and taxed these 1933
dividends: "If income from dividends received in 1933
were properly subject to taxation why not those of 1932
or 1931? Why not go back to 1929 when dividends were
many and large, instead of 1933, when they were few and
small?" (Fowler, J., dissenting, 223 Wisc. 319, 332.)
Distinguishing: Milliken v. United States, 283 U. S. 15;
United States v. Hudson, 299 U. S. 498. Retroactivity
of the taxing statute to that extent and over that period
of time is in itself enough to violate the Federal Constitution. Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531, 542; Blodgett
v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142; Untermyer v. Anderson, 276
U. S.440; Helvering v. Helmholz, 296 U. S. 93; White v.
Poor, 296 U. S.98; Coolidge v. Long, 282 U. S. 582.
In setting up as a test, that the legislature can go
back "to the most recent year for which they have returns furnishing a basis upon which to estimate the total
return of the tax to the State," the court below has
substituted the convenience of the State for the rights of
the taxpayer as the standard to be complied with. The
returns referred to were apparently the returns for the
purpose of determining normal income tax which all
Wisconsin taxpayers are required to file on the 15th day
of March in each year. The returns covering income for

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Counsel for Appellees.

305 U. S.

1934 were due on March 15, 1935. Wisconsin Statutes,
§ 71.09 (4). Section 6 of Ch. 15 of the Laws of 1935
was approved on the 14th day of March, 1935, the day
before the returns covering income for 1934 were due.
It was published and- became effective March 27th,
twelve days after the returns were due. Under the rule
fixed by the court this tax, merely because of its retroactive features, would have been invalid had it been
passed the day after it was approved.
It is apparent that if you go back far enough with a
retroactive tax, you must come to a point where there is
so little relation between the income during the period
involved and the taxpayer's ability to pay, or any other
reasonable ground for demanding a tax, that the effect is
an arbitrary imposition which is beyond the legislature's
power. That point has been reached when the legislature
purports to impose a tax upon receipts for the second
preceding year, a period for which taxes have already been
levied and paid.
It is difficult to see how the tax is anything but a
property tax upon the receipts themselves. When the
dividends reached the taxpayer's hands by transactions
upon which the State was not then claiming any tax,
they became so much property in his possession and no
different from other dollars in the hands of other taxpayers that had come in some other manner. The singling out of this property in the hands of the appellant
for taxation when other dollars were not taxed is an
arbitrary discrimination.
Messrs. Leo E. Vaudreuil, Deputy Attorney General of
Wisconsin, and Harold H. Persons, Assistant Attorney
General, with whom Messrs. Orland S. Loomis, Attorney
General, and Joseph E. Messerschmidt, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief, for appellees.

WELCH v. HENRY.
134

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This appeal presents the question whether the Act of
the Wisconsin Legislature of March 27, 1935, which imposed a tax on corporate dividends received by appellant
in 1933 at rates different from those applicable in that
year to other types of income and without deductions
which were allowed in computing the tax on other income,
infringes the equal protection and due process clauses of
the Fourteenth Amendment.
The statute of Wisconsin in force in 1933 and since imposes a tax on net income at graduated rates. Wisconsin Stat. 1933, c. 71. Appellant, a resident of Wisconsin,
received in 1933 gross income of $13,3S3.26, of which
$12,156.10 was dividends received from corporations
whose "principal business" was "attributable to Wisconsin" within the meaning of the taxing statute. By § 71.04
(4), Wisconsin Stat. 1933,1 such dividends were deductible from gross income in computing net taxable income, together with other items, including taxes, interest
paid, business expenses, losses from the sale of securities,
and donations, aggregating, in the case of appellant, $11,161.97, so that he had no taxable net income for the
year 1933.
Petitioner's income tax return was due and filed March
15, 1934. A year later c. 15 of the Laws of Wisconsin for
1935, effective March 27, 1935, laid new taxes for the
years 1933 and 1934 upon various taxable subjects. See'Sec. 71.04(4) permits the deduction from gross income of divi.dends
received from corporations whose principal business is attributable to
Wisconsin; ". . . any corporation shall be considered as having its
principal business attributable to Wisconsin if fifty per ceilt or more
of the entire net income or loss of such corporation . . . (for the
year preceding the payment of such dividends) was used in computing
the average taxable income provided by chapter 71. . ....

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

tion 6, with which we are alone concerned, imposed a
graduated tax, with no deduction except the sum of $750,
on all dividends received in 1933 which, when received,
'*ere deductible from gross income under § 71.04(4). The
statute declared that the levy was an emergency tax to
provide revenue for relief purposes and directed that the
proceeds should be paid into the state treasury to be used
for "unemployment relief purposes." Appellant paid the
tax, amounting to $545.71. under protest, on May 13,
1935, and brought the present suit to compel its restitution as exacted in violation of the state constitution and
the equal protection and due process clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. From the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin sustaining the tax, 226 Wis. 595; 277
N. W. 183, the case comes here on appeal. § 237 of the
Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 344.
First. Appellant assails the statute as a denial of equal
protection because the dividends which it selected for
taxation as a special class were subjected ratably to a
tax burden different from that borne by other types of
income for the same year by reason of the fact that
the dividends were taxed at a different rate from that
applied to other income and were given the benefit of but
a single deduction of $750, while recipients of other types
of income in that year were permitted to deduct specified
items of interest, taxes, business losses and donations. It
is not contended that the receipt of dividends from corporations is not subject to tax, or that apart from the
retroactive application of the tax they could not be
included in gross income for the purpose of arriving at
net taxable income, but it is insisted that disparities in
the tax burdens which may result from the different rates
and deductions infringe the constitutional immunity.
Wisconsin income tax legislation has from the beginning treated dividends received from corporations deriv-

WELCH v. HENRY.
Opinion of the Court.

134

ing a substantial part of their income from business carried on within the State, on which the corporations have
paid a tax to the State, as a distinct class of income for
tax purposes. At first complete tax immunity was
granted to them. § 1, c. 658, Laws of Wisconsin, 1911.
Later the immunity was allowed ratably in the same proportion that the income of the corporation had been subjected to state income tax. § 1, c. 318, Laws of Wisconsin, 1923. And, finally, by amendment adopted in 1927 *-'
and in force in 1933 complete immunity of dividends from
income tax was allowed if 50'"( or more of the total net
income of the corporation paying them was included in
the computation of the Wisconsin tax on corporate
income.3
When in 1935 the State was confronted with the necessity of raising revenue to meet the demand for unemployment relief, and of distributing the cost among its taxpayers, the legislature found one class of untaxed income,
dividends received from a specified category of corporations. It also could have concluded that a substantial
part of this income had borne no tax burden at its source
in the earnings of the corporations, since, by § 71.02 (3)
(d), corporations are not required to pay a tax on that
part of their income allocable to business carried on or
property located without the State.
We think that the selection of such income for taxation
at rates and with deductions not shown to be unrelated to
an equitable distribution of the tax burden is not a denial
of the equal protection commanded by the Fourteenth
Amendmncnt. It cannot be doubted that the receipt of
dividends from a corporation is an event which may constitutionally be taxed either with or without deductions,
Lynch v. Hornby, 247 U. S.339; see Helvering v. Inde2

c. 539, § 4, Laws of Wisconsin of 1927.

'See Note 1, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

pendent Life Ins. Co., 292 U. S. 371, 381, even though the
corporate income which is their source has also been taxed.
See Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117 U. S. 129, 136; Klein v.
Board of Tax Supervisors, 282 U. S. 19, 23; C9lgate v.
Harvey, 296 U. S. 404, 420. The fact that the dividends
of corporations which have to some extent borne the
burden of state taxation constitute a distinct class for
purposes of tax exemption, Colgate v. Harvey, supra;
compare Travellers' Insurance Co. v. Connecticut, 185
U. S. 364, 367; Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730; Darnell
v. Indiana, 226 U. S. 390, 398, and that in consequence
such dividends have borne no tax burdeX, is equally a
basis for their selection for taxation. Watson v. State
Comptroller, 254 U. S. 122, 124, 125; Klein v. Board of
Tax Supervisors, supra. Any classification of taxation is
permissible which has reasonable relation to a legitimate
end of governmental action. Taxation is but the means
by which government distributes the burdens of its cost
among those who enjoy its benefits. And the distribution of a tax burden by placing it in part on a special class
which by reason of the taxing policy of the State has
escaped all tax during the taxable period is not a denial
of equal protection. See Watson v. Comptroller, supra,
125. Nor is the tax any more a denial of equal protection
because retroactive. If the 1933 dividends differed sufficiently from other classes of income to admit of the
taxation, in that year, of one without the other, lapse of
time did not remove that difference so as to compel
equality of treatment when the income was taxed at a
later date. Selection then of the dividends for the new
taxation can hardly be thought to be hostile or invidious
when the basis of selection is the fact that the taxed income is of the class which has borne no tax burden. The
equal protection clause does not preclude the legislature
from changing its mind in making an otherwise permissible choice of subjects of taxation. The very fact that

WELCH v. HENRY.
134

Opinion of the Court.

the dividends were relieved of tax, when the need for
revenue was less, is basis for the legislative judgment that
they should bear some of the added burden when the need
is greater.
Numerous retroactive revisions of the federal and Wisconsin revenue laws, presently to be discussed, have imposed taxes oh subjects previously untaxed and shifted
the burden of old taxes by changes in rates, exemptions
and deductions. It has never been thought that such
changes involve a denial of equal protection if the new
taxes could have been included in the earlier act when
adopted. If some retroactive alteration in the scheme of
a tax act is permissible, as is conceded, it seems plain that
validity, so far as equal protection is concerned, must
be determined, as in the case of any other tax, by ascertaining whether the thing taxed falls within a distinct
class which may rationally be treated differently from
other classes. If such changes are forbidden in the name
of equal protection, legislatures in laying new taxes would
be left powerless to rectify to any extent a previous distribution of tax burdens which experience had shown to
be inequitable, even though constitutional.
The bare fact that the present tax is imposed at different rates and with different deductions from those
applied to other types of income does not establish unconstitutionality. It is a commonplace that the equal
protection clause does not require a State to maintain
rigid rules of equal taxation, to resort to close distinctions,
or to maintain a precise scientific uniformity. Possible
differences in tax burdens, not shown to be substantial,
or which are based on discrimination not shown to be
arbitrary or capricious, do not fall within the constitutional prohibition.

Lawrence v. State Tax Comm'n, 286

U. S. 276, 284, 285, and cases cited.
Just what the differences are in the tax burdens cast
upon the two types of income by the divergence in rates
105537°-39-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

and deductions applied to them does not appear. The
burden placed ol dividends by the taxing act might have
been greater if they had been included in gross income
and taxed on the same basis as other income since, in
that case, the resulting increase in net income would be
taxed at the rates applicable to the" higher brackets.
When the challenged statute was enacted there were
available to the legislature the returns for the taxable
year showing the different classes of income, the application to them of the existing law, and the effect of existing
rates and deductions. There were also data to be derived
from the corporation tax returns showing what part of
the exempted dividends had their source in corporate
income which had been taxed to the corporation and
what part was attributable to corporate income not similarly taxed. The legislature was free to take into account
all these factors in prescribing rates and deductions to
be applied to the newly taxed dividends so as to arrive
at an equitable distribution of the added tax burden.
In the absence of any facts tending to show that the taxing act, in its purpose or effect, is a hostile or oppressive
discrimination against the recipients of dividends who
have been hitherto fortunate enough to escape all taxation we cannot say the taxing statute denies equal
pr'otection.
Second. The objection chiefly urged to the taxing statnt(, is ,,h1at it is a denial of due l)roccss of law because in
1935 it iniposel a tax on income received in 1933. But a
tax is not necessarily umconstitutional because retroactive. Millilwn v. Unit((d States, 283 U. S. 15, 21; and
ca-es citc'(l. Taxation is neitlier a penalty imposed oil
the taxpayer nor a liability which he assumes by contract. It is but a way of apportioning the cost of gove'nint alniong those who in som measure are privileged to enjoy its benefits and must bear its burdens.

WELCH v. HENRY.
134

Opinion of the Court.

Since no citizen enjoys immunity from that burden, its
retroactive imposition does not necessarily infringe due
process, and to challenge the present tax it is not enough
to point out that the taxable event, the receipt of income,
antedated the statute.
In the cases in which this Court has held invalid the
taxation of gifts made and completely vested before the
enactment of the taxing statute, decision was rested on
the ground that the nature or amount of the tax could
not reasonably have been anticipated by the taxpayer
at the time of the particular voluntary act which the
statute later made the taxable event. Nichols v. Coolidge,
274 U. S. 531, 542; Untermeyer v. Anderson, 276 U. S.
440, 445 (citing Blodgett v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142, 147);
Coolidge v. Long, 282 U. S. 582. Since, in each of these
cases, the donor might freely have chosen to give or not
to give, the taxation, after the choice was made, of a gift
which he might well have refrained from making had
he anticipated the tax, was thought to be so arbitrary
and oppressive as to be a denial of due process. But there
are other forms of taxation whose retroactive imposition
cannot be said to be similarly offensive, because their
incidence is not on the voluntary act of the taxpayer.
And even a retroactive gift tax has been held valid where
the donor was forewarned by the statute books of the
possibility of such a levy, Milliken v. United States,
supra. In each case it is necessary to consider the nature
of the tax and the circumstances in which it is laid before
it can be said that its retroactive application is so harsh
and oppressive as to transgress the constitutional
limitation.
Property taxes and benefit assessments of real estate,
retroactively applied, are not open to the objection successfully urged in the gift cases. See Wagner v. Baltimore, 239 U. S. 207; Seattle v. Kelleher, 195 U. S. 351;

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

compare Citizens National Bank v. Kentucky, 217 U. S.
443, 454; Billings v. United States, 232 U. S. 261, 282.
Similarly, a tax on the receipt of income is not comparable to a gift tax. We can not assume that stockholders
would refuse to receive corporate dividends even if they
knew that their receipt would later be subjected to a new
tax or to the increase of an old one. The objection to the
present tax is of a different character and is addressed
only to the particular inconvenience of the taxpayer in
being called upon, after the customary time for levy and
payment of the tax has passed, to bear a governmental
burden of which it is said he had no warning and which
he did not anticipate.
Assuming that a tax may attempt to reach events so
far in the past as to render that objection valid, we think
that no such case is presented here. For more than seventy-five years it has been the familiar legislative practice of Congress in the enactment of revenue laws to
tax retroactively income or profits received during the
year of the session in which the taxing statute is enacted, and in some instances during the year of the preceding session. See Untermeyer v. Anderson, supra, footnote 1. These statutes not only increased the tax burden
by laying new taxes and increasing the rates of old ones
or both, but they redistributed retroactively the tax burdens imposed by prei;xisting laws. This was notably the
case with the "Revenue Act of 1918," enacted February
24, 1919, 40 Stat. 1057, and made applicable to the calendar year 1918, which cut down exemptions and deductions, increased, in varying degrees, income, excess profits
and capital stock taxes, altered the basis of surtaxes, and
incrvased in progressive ratio the rates applicable to the
higher brackets. Similarly the special munition manufactirer's tax, iil)eCed on profits derived from sales of munitiotns, Act of September 8, 1916, c. 463, 39 Stat. 756, 780,
wvas applied to the twelve months ending December 31,

WELCH v. HENRY.
134

Opinion of the Court.

1916. Cf. Carbon Steel Co. v. Lewellyn, 251 U. S. 501;
United States v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 422, 435. The contention that the retroactive application of the Revenue
Acts is a denial of the due process guaranteed by the
Fifth Amendment has been uniformly rejected. Stockdale v. Insurance Companies, 20 Wall. 323, 331; Railroad
Co. v. Rose, 95 U. S. 78, 80; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co.,
220 U. S. 107; Billings v. United States, 232 U. S. 261,
282; Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 20;
Lynch v. Hornby, 247 U. S. 339, 343; LaBelle Iron Works
v. United States, 256 U. S. 377. The like practice of the
legislature of Wisconsin has been approved by its courts.'
The equitable distribution of the costs of government
through the medium of an income tax is a delicate and
difficult task. In its performance experience has shown
the importance of reasonable opportunity for the legislative body, in the revision of tax laws, to distribute increased costs of government among its taxpayers in the
light of present need for revenue and with knowledge of
the sources and amounts of the various classes of taxable
income during the taxable period preceding revision.
Without that opportunity accommodation of the legislative purpose to the need may be seriously obstructed
if not defeated. We cannot say that the due process
which the Constitution exacts denies that opportunity
to legislatures; that it withholds from them, more than
in the case of a prospective tax, authority to distribute
the increased tax burden in the light of experience and
in conformity with accepted notions of the requirements
of equal protection; or that in view of well established
4

Income Tax Cases (1912), 148 Wis. 456, 514; 134 N. W. 673;
135 N. W. 164; State ex rel. Globe Tubes Co. v. Lyons (1924), 183
Wis. 107, 124; 197 N. W. 578; Cliffs Chcmical Co. v. Wi.s, msin Tax
Comm'n (1927), 193 Wis. 295, 302; 214 N. W. 447; W, v. Tax
Comm'n (1932), 207 Wis. 557, 562; 242 N. W. 165; Van Dyke v.
Tax Comm'n (1935), 217 Wis. 528; 295 N. W. 700.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

legislative practice, both state and national, taxpayers
can justly assert surprise or complain of arbitrary action
in the retroactive apportionment of tax burdens to income at the first opportunity after knowledge of the
nature and amount of the income is available. And we
think that the "recent transactions" to which this Court
has declared a tax law may be retroactively applied,
Cooper v. United States, 280 U. S. 409, 411, must be
taken to include the receipt of income during the year
of the legislative session preceding that of its enactment.
The Joint Resolution of Congress of July 4, 1864, No.
77, 13 Stat. 417, imposed an additional tax on incomes
earned during the calendar year 1863, this tax being imposed after the taxes for the year had been paid. In
Stockdale v. Insurance Companies, supra, 331, Mr. Justice Miller said of it: "The right of Congress to have
imposed this tax by a new statute, although the measure
of it was governed by the income of the past year, cannot be doubted. . . . no one doubted the validity of
the tax or attempted to resist it." The Act of February
24, 1919, c. 18, Tit. 2, 40 Stat. 1057, 1058-1088, which
taxed incomes for the calendar year 1918, was applied
without question as to its constitutionality in United
States v. Robbins, 269 U. S.315, and in other cases.
In the present case the returns of income received in
1933 were filed and became available in March, 1934.
Wisconsin Stat. 1933, § 71.09 (4). The next succeeding
session of the legislature at which tax legislation could
be considered was in 1935, when the challenged statute
was passed. By § 11, Art. IV; § 4, Art. V, of the Wisconsin constitution, and § 13.02 Wisconsin Statutes, 1935,
regular sessions of the legislature are held in each oddnumbered year. Special sessions of the legislature may
be held cn call of the governor, at which no business can
be transacted "except as shall be necessary to accomplish

WELCH v. HENRY.
134

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

the special purposes for which it was convened." A
special session was called by the governor in 1934, but for
purposes unrelated to taxation. Proclamations of the
Governor of Wisconsin December 2, 28, 1933, January
18, 22, 30, 1934. Thus the legislature in 1935, at the first
opportunity after the tax year in which the income was
received, made its revision of the tax laws applicable to
1933 income, as did Congress in the Joint Resolution of
July 4, 1864, commented on in Stockdale v. Insurance
Companies, supra.
While the Supreme Court of Wisconsin thought that
the present tax might "approach or reach the limit of
permissible retroactivity," we cannot say that it exceeds it.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE

ROBERTS, dissenting.

The Constitution of Wisconsin, Article VIII, § 1, provides: "Taxes may also be imposed on incomes, privileges and occupations, which taxes may be graduated
and progressive, and reasonable exemptions may be provided." Pursuant to this grant, the State, since 1911,1
has had a statute levying a general income tax on corporations and individuals at a graduated rate. The system,
which is analogous to that with which we are familiar in
the federal field, has, like the latter, been amended from
time to time in detail. The law as it stood in 1933 is
found in the 1933 edition of the Wisconsin statutes as
chapter 71. The tax is imposed for annual periods. The
gross income of a given year includes rents, dividends,
wages, and salaries, profits from the transaction of business or sale of property and all other gains, profits, or
income derived from any source except such as are specifically exempted. In ascertaining taxable income each tax'Laws of Wisconsin 1911, e. 65,,

).9S.

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

payer is entitled to deduct from gross receipts wages,
salaries, and other expenses of conducting a business, occupation, or profession, depreciation, also cost of property
sold. In addition each is permitted to deduct certain
losses incurred within the year not compensated by insurance, interest paid on indebtedness, state and federal
taxes, contributions to the State or its subdivisions or to
charitable objects and amounts paid to an unemployment
reserve.! Pensions are exempted, and a specified amount
may be deducted from the tax, when ascertained, as a
personal exemption.' Dividends (with exceptions not
material) received from certain corporations filing income
tax returns under the law, and paying income tax to the
State, are deductible from gross income.' We were told at
the bar that this deduction had been authorized for many
years prior to 1933.
The appellant, a resident of Wisconsin, on or about
March 15, 1934, as by law required, made a return of his
income for 1933 showing his gross income and took deductions for interest paid, for losses on the sale of securities,
for business expenses, for charitable contributions, and
for dividends received from certain corporations, with the
result that no net taxable income remained. Without the
deduction of the dividends his net income would, have
been $2,221.39.
When the Wisconsin legislature met in its regular biennial session in January 1935 it was confronted by a
need for additional revenue to meet the State's obligations. Tb3 condition is referred to as an emergency because the need for additional funds grew out of the then
current relief load; but the emergency was no different
than if the State had found itself short of funds for the
§ 71.04.
§ 71.05.

'§ 71.04(4).

WELCH v. HENRY.
134

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

payment of official salaries. As the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin has said: "Expense for relief of the unemployed is on no different footing than any other governmental expense."'
And it goes without saying that an
emergency does not create power but is merely the occasion for the exercise of existing powers in conformity to
constitutional principles
What then did the legislature do to meet the demand
for public revenue? It adopted a statute effective March
27, 1935." By § 2 this Act laid an income tax additional to and separate from the general income tax at a
graduated rate on the income of all individuals, for the
year 1934, which was to be "assessed, collected, and paid
in the same manner, upon the same income and subject
to the same regulations," as provided "by law for the
assessment, collection and payment of the normal income
tax," with certain variations. One of the variations was
that no deduction was. to be allowed for those corporate
dividends which were deductible under subsection (4) of
§ 71.04 of the general law.
Section 3 imposed an additional tax on transfers of
property made up to July 1, 1937. Section 4 placed additional license fees for the year 1934 on telephone companies. Section 5 imposed an additional license fee for
1934 upon electric, gas and similar utility companies.
Section 6 imposed on the 1933 dividends, which had
been deductible under the general law, a graduated tax of
oiie per cent. on the first two thousand dollars of net
dividend income, three per cent. on the next $3,000, and
seven per cent. on all above $5,000. Net dividend income
is defined as gross dividend income less $750. The tax
' Scobie v. Tax Commission, 225 Wis. 529, 538; 275 N. W. 531.
'Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 425, 436;
Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 348.
'Laws of Wisconsin 1935, c. 15, p. 19.

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
RODmnTS,

J., di.senting.

305 U.S.

is to be assessed, collected and paid in the same manner
as the normal income tax for 1934. Under this section the
appellant was required to make return and pay on some
$12,000 of the dividends which he had been permitted
to deduct from gross income in calculating and paying
his income tax for 1933 and was assessed thereon $545.71,
which he paid under protest and brought this action to
recover.
The question is whether § 6 transgresses the prohibition
of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Supreme Court of
Wisconsin, although stating that "While the present tax
may approach or reach the limit of permissible retroactivity, it does not exceed it," sustained the statute as
against challenge under the equal protection and due
process clauses of the amendment." I think the statute
is violative of the guarantees of equal protection and due
process.
One must ignore the realities of the situation if he approaches a decision of the case in the light of the equal
*protection clause as if the statute under attack were prospective in operation; or, in the light of the due process
clause, as if the statute were a revision of an existing general income tax system theretofore in force. The illegal
discrimination and the arbitrary character of the Act condemn it under the equal protection clause not because it
selects a particular class of citizens for the imposition of
the tax but because, in so doing, it reaches back and
singles out for a new and wholly different sort of income
tax those few only to whom a specific deduction was allowed in the general computation of their taxable income
for the year 1933. It will not do to examine the classifiThe judges who he:rd the cause were cqually divided in opinion.
Four justices of the Supreme Court voted to sustain the Act. The
trial judge and three justices of the Supreme Court were of the opinion that it was unconstitutional.

WELCH v. HENRY.
134

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

cation as if it were the declaration of a new policy of
taxation to be operative in the future. No more will it do
to separate the retroactive feature of the law and consider it as if it were a mere amendment of a general
income tax system as such applicable to all income of all
taxpayers subject to the law as it stood at the date of the
amendment. The reason for allowing the deduction is
plain. As has been said in this' court: "The purpose of
the Legislature was solely to prevent double taxation by
the State of Wisconsin, of the income received br individuals in the form of dividends." I The same thing may
be said as to the reason for other allowable deductions,
as, for instance, of taxes paid. Reasons of fairness and
public policy moved the State to allow the permitted deductions from gross income.
It readily may be conceded that Wisconsin is, and always has been, free in the imposition of an income tax,
for good and sufficient reason, to treat the recipients of
dividends on a basis different from the recipients of other
sorts of income. The State also was free to revoke, alter,
and amend the provisions for deductions as its views of
fairness and policy might dictate. This case presents no
such situation. After the taxpayers had returned and
paid their tax under the existing system and according
to the long established public policy of the State, the State
sought additional revenues. Instead of levying an exaction upon the citizens generally or certain classes of citizens, the State went back and sought to tax a small class
of income tax payers by reason of the purely arbitrary
and adventitious fact that they had been allowed a particular deduction in a past year. It chose as the base of
the tax a part of the income of the taxpayer under the law
as previously in force. The previously granted deduction
was not withdrawn but, on the contrary, the income rep'Miller v. Milwaukee, 272 U. S. 713, 717.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
ROmBifTM, J1., dissenting.

305 U. S.

resented by that deduction was picked out from all others,
was classified by itself and taxed in a manner wholly unrelated to the income and the taxes of the recipient of
these dividends un(ler the general law under which he
had computed and paid his tax. If the State was at
liberty to do this it, was equally free to tax at a new rate
and upon a new scheme income of the taxpayers who in
1933 deducted losses sustained or those who deducted interest paid or taxes paid or charitable contributions made.
It was equally at liberty to form a taxable class of those
who were granted personal exemptions, to wrest out of
their setting, as part of the general income of a taxpayer,.
rents received, royalties received, or professional income
accrued in 1933 and to impose a special income tax on
one or all of those items. As the trial judge well said:
"In the equitable distribution of taxation persons receiving divi(lends in the year 1933 should not be classified less favorably than persons receiving other kinds of
income that year. For the purpose of taxation the income
was not materially different than the following kinds:
Salaries paid officers of private corporations; salaries paid
to public officials; interest; rents; profit and income of
all kinds received by individuals and corporations generally, unless some good reason appeared for some legislative exception.
"The statute is also discriminatory against the class of
persons receiving dividends in the year 1933 when coinpared with other classes of persons when such other classes
are assessed at all. It discriminates in being more drastic
in limiting deductions for losses, expenses and exemptions.
It is more drastic in the rapid increase of the graduated
rate. For some reason one class only was selected to bear
the entire burden of the emergency tax in question. This

class was subjected to an unusually inequitable burden."
Decisions sustaining the power of a State prospectively
to classify, to grant exemptions, or otherwise to inter-

WELCH v. HENRY.
134

ROBERTS, J., discnting.

relate the tax burdens of different classes of taxpayers are

of no aid and lend no support to the present statute. In
no case heretofore to which attention has been called
have the courts sustained a law which after the fact
reaches back two years and selects for a special form of
income taxation at a new rate a group of the taxpayers
who, in accordance with preexisting law, had paid that
share of the general income tax which the legislature had
adjudged to be its equal and proportionate share of the
burden of government. To attempt this was, in my
judgment, arbitrary and discriminatory classification.
From what has been said I think it apparent that the
retroactivity of the challenged statute taken alone is not
the element which condemns it any more than the attempted classification alone would condcmn it if the Act
were prospective in operation. The cases relied upon to
support the statute, viewed in its retroactive aspect, do
not meet the present case. In one of the cited cases,United States v. Hudson, 299 U. S. 498, 500,-earlier
decisions were thus summarized: "As respects income tax
statutes it long has been the practice of Congress to make

them retroactive for relatively short periods so as to include profits from transactions consummated while the
statute was in process of enactment, or within so much of
the calendar year as preceded the enactment; and repeated
decisions of this Court have recognized this practice and
sustained it. . .

."

That was a case which fell squarely

within this statement of the scope of permissible retroactivity. All enactments sustained that amended the tax
system of a prior year were continuations of that existing
system, and the taxpayers had knowledge, before the expiration of the year of receipt of the income by which the
tax was measured, that amendment of the system was

under consideration. To this class belongs the provision
of the Wisconsin Act of 1935 imposing an additional tax
on income received in 1934. This feature of the Act is

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

305 U. S.

not here under attack. A very different course was
adopted with respect to the income of 1933. For that
year the statute imposed a special income tax on a class
selected because the law in force when they paid their
taxes had permitted them to deduct certain items, and
ignored all others to whom similar deductions had been
granted. Thus the whole scheme of the general income
tax was unbalanced and a peculiar and specific burden laid
upon a selected few who had theretofore been relieved
of the unjust burden of double taxation. What was said
in Milliken v. United States, 283 U. S. 15, 21, is peculiarly
apposite to the facts here disclosed. There, referring to
earlier decisions, condemning, under the due process
clause, retroactive taxes, it was stated: "In both the point
was stressed, as the basis of decision, that the nature and
amount of the tax burden imposed could not have been
understood and foreseen by the taxpayer at the time of
the particular voluntary act which was made the occasion
of the tax." Here the nature and amount of this special
and peculiar tax could not have been understood and foreseen when the petitioner paid his 1933 income tax.
It is to be remembered that the Act in question is not
a curative statute for the collection of taxes assessed in a
prior year and uncollected 10 nor one intended to make
available taxes which, by reason of illegality in their imposition, were not paid in the year in which they were
assessed." The Act is not a remedial measure to confirm
or ratify a doubtful administrative interpretation of prior
legislation. 2 It does not lay an excise or a privilege
measured by the income of a prior year,"2 nor is it a statute to settle doubts as to whether an earlier taxing Act
had expired by limitation."
" Florida Central & P. R. Co. v. Reynolds, 183 U. S. 471.
" Citizens National Bank v. Kentucky, 217 U. S. 443.
Hecht v. Malley, 265 U. S. 144.
"Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107.
" Stockdale v. Insurance Companies, 20 Wall. 323.

WELCH v. HENRY.
134

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

It was suggested at the bar that the exaction is a property tax and bad as such because retroactively imposed.
The reply was that retroactive property taxes have been
upheld. The cases cited do not touch the validity of an
ad valorcm property tax retroactively imposed. Some of
them involved special assessments for benefits assessed
Another
after the completion of the improvement.'cited to the proposition dealt with an excise for the use,
for pleasure, of foreign built yachts either owned or chartered by the user for more than six months during the
taxable year. The exaction was held an excise on the
privilege of use and not a tax upon ownership, and, moreover, the tax was not retroactive in operation but was
assessed upon the taxpayer at a (late during which the
taxpayer's use of the yacht continued." Still another
dealt with a curative act passed to reach property illegally
assessed."' But whether viewed as a property or an income tax the exaction is bad. Most, if not all, the States
have long maintained the policy of exenipting places of
religious worship from annual tax levies. Will it be conten(ded that if the State were now to impose a tax on the
value of such exempt property for some past year, the
action would not be an arbitrary taking of property as
well as a hostile discrimination ?
If, as this court has repeatedly said, an income tax is
an equitable method of distributing the necessary burdens of government, certainly no such discrimination as
is evidenced by the challenged Act can properly fall

within the description. The Act evidences purposeful
and arbitrary discrimination and thus violates the guarantee of equal protection.
AIR. JUSTICE

kcREYNOLDS

and 1\R.

JUSTICE BUTLER

join in this opinion.
"Scattle v. Kelleher, 195 U. S. 351; Wagner v. Baltimore, 239 U. S.
207.
"Billing s v. United States, 2832 U. S. 261.
" Citizens National Banlk v. Kentucky, supra.

