OCTOBER TERM, 1947.

210

Syllabus.

334 U. S.

the Transportation Act, and although the survival of such
State law does not interfere with the national interest as
found by the agency selected by Congress for determining
that interest.
I would affirm the judgment.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE BURTON join in

this dissent.
WOODS, HOUSING EXPEDITER, v. HILLS.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE TENTH CIRCUIT. -

No. 437.

Argued

anuary 14, 1948.-Decided May 10, 1948.

Under § 205 of the Emergency Price Control Act, the Administrator
brought an- action based on an alleged overcharge of rent. The
issue, by stipulation of the parties, was the validity of the second
of two orders of the Rent Director reducing maximum rents on
property of the defendant. The District Court entered judgment
for the defendant in 1946. An appeal by the Administrator was
not submitted in the Circuit Court of Appeals until September 10,
1947, and the Emergency Price Control Act expired by its terms on
June 30, 1947. Held:
1. Section 204 (d) of the Emergency Price Control Act precluded the District Court in 1946 from determining the validity
of the individual rent order, even though the defense to the action
brought there was based on the alleged invalidity of the order,
since exclusive jurisdiction to pass on the validity of a regulation
or an order issued by the Administrator was vested in the Emergency Court of Appeals and in this Court upon review of judgments and orders of the Emergency Court. Pp. 211-214.
2. On remand, the District Court will not have jurisdiction to
determine the validity of the second rent order and should not be
directed by the Circuit Court of Appeals to pass on the validity
of the order. Pp. 211-212, 218.
3. Since responsibility for functions with respect to rent control
was transferred by Executive Order 9841 to the Housing Expediter
rather than to the Department of Commerce, the necessary effect
of the amendment of § 204 (e) of the Emergency Price Control Act

WOODS v. HILLS.
210

Opinion of the Court.

by the Supplemental Appropriation Act of July 30, 1947, was
to abrogate the statutory right the defendant in the present case
previously had to apply to the District Court for leave to file a
complaint in the Emergency Court of Appeals, wherefore the latter
court no longer has jurisdiction pursuant to § 204 (e) over any
complaint which defendant may desire to file with it to contest
the validity of the second rent order. Pp. 215-216.
4. Under § 1 (b) of the Emergency Price Control Act, the Emergency Court of Appeals still has jurisdiction to review rent orders
issued under the Price Control Act, through the protest and complaint procedure prescribed by §§ 203 (a) and 204 (a) as amended,
although a 1947 amendment expressly recognizes the right of the
United States or any officer thereof to dismiss any protest under
§ 203 on the ground of laches. Pp. 216-218.

Upon an appeal from a judgment of the District Court
for the defendant in an action by the Temporary Controls
Administrator (succeeded by the Housing Expediter)
under § 205 of the Emergency Price Control Act based on
an alleged overcharge of rent, the Circuit Court of Appeals certified questions to this Court which are here
answered, pp. 212-213,218.
John R. Benney argued the cause for the Administrator.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,Ed
Dupree and NathanSiegel.
By special leave of Court, George D. Rathbun, pro hac
vice, argued the cause and filed a brief for Hills.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON delivered the opinion of

the Court.
In this case, the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit
has certified questions of law concerning which it asks
instructions for the proper decision of the cause pending
in that court. Judicial Code, § 239; 28 U. S. C. § 346.
The certificate states that this is an action brought by
the Administrator for treble damages and for an injunc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

tion under § 205 of the Emergency Price Control Act1
and under the Rent Regulation for Housing.2 Hills, the
defendant below, remodeled apartments located in a Defense Rental Area, subject to the Rent Regulations, and
duly registered them. Thereafter, on December 17, 1943,
the maximum rents were reduced by the Area Rent
Director pursuant to § 5 (c) of the Regulation; and on
March 7, 1945, the Rent Director issued an order further
reducing the maximum rents.
On trial in the District Court without a jury, the parties
stipulated that the only issue was the validity of the
second order. The District Court entered judgment for
the defendant on October 29, 1946, holding that the burden was on the Administrator to establish the validity
of the second order and that he had failed to introduce
proof establishing its validity.
At the time the District Court entered its judgment,
exclusive jurisdiction to pass on the validity of a regulation
or order issued by the Administrator was vested in the
Emergency Court of Appeals and in this Court upon review of judgments and orders of the Emergency Court.
§ 204 (d), 50 U. S. C. A. App. § 924 (d). However, the
appeal by the Administrator from the judgment of the
District Court was not submitted in the Circuit Court
of Appeals until September 10, 1947, and the Emergency
Price Control Act expired by its terms on June 30, 1947.
§ 1 (b), 50 U. S. C. A. App. § 901 (b).
The questions certified are as follows:
"(1) On remand, will the District Court of the
United States for the District of Kansas, First Division, have jurisdiction to determine the validity of
2

As amended, 50 U. S. C. A. App. §§ 901, 925,
As amended, 8 Fed. Reg. 7322.

WOODS v. HILLS.
210

Opinion of the Court.

the second rent order and should we direct the District Court to pass on the validity of such rent
order?
"(2) If the first question is answered in the negative, does the Emergency Court of Appeals still have
jurisdiction to determine the validity of the second
rent order?
"(3) If the second question is answered in the
affirmative, and this court jemands the cause with
directions to enter judgment as prayed for agt;nst
Hills, may Hills, under Sec. 204 (e) of the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, as amended (50
U. S. C. A. App., Sec. 924 (e)), apply to the District
Court for leave to file in the Emergency Court of
Appeals a complaint against the Administrator, setting forth objections to the validity of the second
rent order, and, upon proper petition and showing,
obtain the relief provided for in Sec. 204 (e), and
should we so direct on remand?"
There can be no doubt that the exclusive jurisdiction conferred on the Emergency Court of Appeals by
§ 204 (d)' precluded the District Court in 1946 from de3,,... The Emergency Court of Appeals, and the Supreme Court
upon review of judgments and orders of the Emergency Court of
Appeals, shall have exclusive jurisdiction to determine the validity
of any regulation or order issued under section 2, of any price schedule
effective in accordance with the provisions of section 206, and of
any provision of any such regulation, order, or price schedule. Except as provided in this section, no court, Federal, State, or Territorial, shall have jurisdiction or power to consider the validity of
any such regulation, order, or price schedule, or to stay, restrain,
enjoin, or set aside, in whole or in part, any provisions of this Act
authorizing the issuance of such regulations or orders, or making
effective any such price schedule, or any provision of any such
regulation, order, or price schedule, or to restrain or enjoin the
enforcement of any such provision." 56 Stat. 33.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

termining the validity of the individual rent order even
though the defense to the action brought there was based
on the alleged invalidity of the order.
The Emergency Price Control Act was to terminate on
June 30, 1947. Section 1 (b), which fixed that date, expressly provides that "as to offenses committed, or rights
or liabilities incurred, prior to such termination date, the
provisions of this Act and such regulations, orders, price
schedules, and requirements shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purpose of sustaining any proper
suit, action, or prosecution with respect to any such right,
liability, or offense." 56 Stat 24. Since the offense
complained of in the case at bar occurred before the termination date, § 1 (b) would apply and the Emergency
Court of Appeals would still have exclusive jurisdiction
to pass on the validity of the second rent order, if additional prerequisites set forth in § 204 (e) (1) of the statute were satisfied.'
Jurisdiction of the Emergency Court of Appeals over
any complaint arises, pursuant to § 204 (e) (1), when the
court in which a civil or criminal enforcement proceeding
is pending has granted the defendant leave to file in the
Emergency Court of Appeals a complaint setting forth
objections to the validity of any provision which the
defendant is alleged to have violated, and the defendant
has duly filed such a complaint. Prior to a 1947 amendment, § 204 (e) (1) provided that "Within thirty days
after arraignment, or such additional time as the court
may allow for good cause shown, in any criminal proceed4 See Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S. 503, 510-511, 521 (1944);
Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S. 414 (1944).
5Cf. 150 East 47th Street Corp. v. Porter, 156 F. 2d 541 (E. C. A.,
1946). Moreover, the terms of a 1947 amendment, discussed infra,
pp. 215-217, clearly show congressional recognition that this exclusive
jurisdiction continued after the termination date.

WOODS v. HILLS.
210

Opinion of the Court.

ing, and within five days after judgment in any civil or
criminal proceeding, brought pursuant to section 205 of
this Act or section 37 of the Criminal Code, involving .alleged violation of any provision of any regulation or order
issued under section 2 or of any price schedule effective
in accordance with the provisions of section 206, the
defendant may apply to the court in which the proceeding
is pending for leave to file in the Emergency Court of
Appeals a complaint against the Administrator setting
forth objections to the validity of any provision which
the defendant is alleged to have violated or conspired to
violate. The court in which the proceeding is pending
shall grant such leave with respect to any objection which
it finds is made in good faith and with respect to which
it finds there is reasonable and substantial excuse for
the defendant's failure to present such objection in a
protest filed in accordance with section 203 (a).' Upon
the filing of a complaint pursuant to and within thirty
days from the granting of such leave, the Emergency
Court of Appeals shall have jurisdiction to enjoin or set
aside in whole or in part the provision of the regulation,
order, or price schedule complained of or-to dismiss the
complaint. . ... " 59 Stat. 308.
However, the Supplemental Appropriation Act, 1948,
approved July 30, 1947, amended § 204 (e) by striking
out the first sentence of the foregoing provision and
substituting the following: "Within sixty days after the
date of enactment of this amendment, or within sixty
days after arraignment in any criminal proceedings and
within sixty days after commencement of any civil pro6 Section 203 (a) provides inter alia for the filing of protests to
rent orders issued by the Administrator at any time after issuance.
The denial by the Administrator of such a protest is reviewable
by a complaint filed in the Emergency Court of Appeals pursuant
to § 204 (a).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

ceedings brought pursuant to section 205 of this Act or.
section 37 of the Criminal Code, involving alleged violation of any provision of any regulation or order issued
under section 2 or alleged violation of any price schedule
effective in accordance with the provisions of section 206
with respect to which responsibility was transferred to the
Department of Commerce by Executive Order 9841,' the
defendant may apply to the court in which the proceeding
is pending for leave to file in the Emergency Court of
Appeals a complaint against the Administrator setting
forth objections to the validity of any provision which
the defendant is alleged to have violated or conspired
to violate." 61 Stat. 619.
Since responsibility for functions with respect to rent
control was transferred by Executive Order 9841 to the
Housing Expediter rather than to the Department of
Commerce, the necessary effect of the foregoing amend-'
ment is to eliminate entirely the statutory right the
defendant in the present case previously had to apply
to the District Court for leave to file a complaint in
the Emergency Court of Appeals. As a corollary, the
latter court can no longer acquire jurisdiction pursuant
to § 204 (e) over any complaint which defendant may
desire to file with it to contest the validity of the second
rent order.
We may now consider what effect the 1947 amendment,
thus viewed, has upon the "exclusive jurisdiction" provision in § 204 (d), which was preserved by the saving
clause of § 1 (b). If elimination of the complaint procedure of § 204 (e) as a remedy for those seeking to challenge rent orders meant the elimination of all provision
for review by the Emergency Court of Appeals, it might
be argued that preservation of the ban imposed by
7 12 Fed. Ieg. 2645.

WOODS v. HILLS.
210

Opinion of the Court.

§ 204 (d) on district court adjudication of the validity
of rent orders would be a denial of due process to a defendant charged with a violation of an order.
However, the 1947 amendment left unimpaired the
provision in § 203 (a) for review of rent orders by filing
protests with the Administrator (i. e., the Housing Expediter, as transferee of the Administrator's rent control
functions). A denial of such a protest may be reviewed
in the Emergency Court of Appeals by filing a complaint
pursuant to § 204 (a). Prior to an amendment added
by the Stabilization Extension Act of 1944, protests could
be filed under § 203 (a) only within a period of sixty days
after the issuance of the regulation or order sought to be
challenged. Under the 1944 amendment, which is preserved unchanged for rent orders, this period was extended
so that protests can be filed "At any- time after the issuance" of the regulation or order, although the 1947
amendment expressly takes cognizance of the right of the
United States or any officer thereof to dismiss any protest
under § 203 on the ground of laches'
Thus, it appears that the Emergency Court of Appeals
may still be able to acquire jurisdiction to review rent
orders, issued under the Price Control Act, by means
of the protest and complaint procedure of §§ 203 (a) and
204 (a). Accordingly, the exclusive jurisdiction provision in § 204 (d) is not a meaningless anomaly so far as
review of rent control orders is concerned, and it remains
as substantial a barrier to review of the second rent order
by the District Court as it was held to be in Yakus v.
United States, 321 U. S. 414 (1944). There this Court
Nothing herein shall be construed as in any way affecting
the right of the United States or any officer thereof to dismiss any
protest under' section 203 of the Emergency Price Control Act of
1942, as amended, or defend against any complaint under section
204 (e) of such Act on the ground of laches." 61 Stat. 619.
8,,...

792588 0-48-19

OCTOBER, TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

ruled that defendants could not attack the validity of
price regulations in a prosecution in a District Court even
though the Emergency Price Control Act as then drawn
made no provision for review by the complaint procedure
later set up under § 204 (e) (and now abandoned so far as
rent orders are concerned),. The only judicial review
then available required as a preliminary the filing of a
protest to the Administrator under § 203 (a) within sixty
days after the promulgation of the order or regulation.
That statutory review procedure, whose constitutionality
was upheld in the Yakus case, is still preserved to defendants charged with violations of rent orders issued under
the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942.' If anything,
the judicial review still available to such defendants is
even broader than the procedure sustained in the Yakus
case, since the sixty-day limitation on the filing of protests no longer applies to rent orders.
In view of the foregoing, we answer question (1) in the
negative. In answer to question (2), the Emergency
Court of Appeals no longer has jurisdiction pursuant to
§ 204 (e) to determine the validity of the second rent
order.

9 Of course the District Court can withhold judgment so that it
may give effect to any determination by the Housing Expediter
or the Emergency Court of Appeals that might result from the
defendant's pursuit of this remedy.

