TRUPIANO v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

TRUPIANO

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 427.

Argued March 9, 1948.-Decided June 14,1948.

Federal agents who had known for at least three weeks that a building on a farm was being used for illicit distilling made a nighttime
raid thereon without a warrant of arrest or a search warrant.
They were led onto the farm and to the building by the owner,
who was an informer. Through an open door they saw one of
the petitioners engaged in illicit distilling. An agent entered, arrested him, and seized the contraband apparatus and material.
The other petitioners were arrested later. Charged with violations
of federal revenue laws,, they mved to suppress the evidence as
having been obtained in violation of the Fourth Amendment of
the Federal COnstitution. Held:
1. The arrest was lawful as an arrest of a person who was com.mitting a felony in the discernible. presence 'of a law-enforcement
officer at a place where the officer was lawfully present. Pp. 700705.
(a) The absence of a warrant of arrest, even though there
was sufficient time to obtain one, does not invalidate, an arrest
under these circumstances. P. 705.
2. The seizure of the contraband property was in violation cOf
the Fourth Amendment and not justified as incident..to the lawfu!
arrest. Pp. 705-710.
(a) In the circumsiances of this case; there was no excuse for
'failure to obtain a search warrant. Pp. 705-706, 708:
(b) The fact that the property actually seized was 'contraband,
which doubtless would have been described in a warrant'had one
issued, does not legalize the seizure. P. 707.
(c) The proximity of the contraband property to the arrested
person at the moment of his arrest was a fortuitous circumstance
inadequate to legalize the seizure. Pp. 707-708.
(d) The presence or absence of an arrestee at the exact time
and place of a foreseeable and anticipated seizure does not determine the validity of that seizure if it occurs without a warrant.
P. 708.
(e) The mere fact that there is a valid arrest does not ipso
facto legalize a search or seizure without a warrant. P. 708.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

(f) Harris v. United States, 331 U. S. 145, distinguished;
Taylor v. United States, 286 U. S. 1, followed. Pp. 708-709.
3. Petitioners were entitled to have the unlawfully seized property suppressed as evidence; but, since the property was contraband, they were not entitled to have it returned to them. P. 710.
163 F. 2d 828, reversed.

Petitioners, charged with violations of federal revenue
laws, moved to suppress certain evidence alleged to have
been illegally obtained. An order of the District Court
denying the motion, 70 F. Supp. 764, was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, 163 F. 2d 828. This Court
granted certiorari. 332 U. S. 841. Reversed, p. 710.
Frank G. Schlosser argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief was Anthony A. Calandra.
Solicitor General Perlman argued the cause for the
United States. With him on the brief were Assistant
Attorney General Quinn, Robert S. Erdahl and Beatrice
Rosenberg.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case adds another chapter to the body of law
growing out of the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. That Amendment provides:
"The right of the people to be secure in their persons,
houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches
and seizures, shall not be violated, and no warrants shall
issue, but upon probable cause, supported by oath or
affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be
searched, and the persons or things to be seized." In
other words, the Fourth Amendment is a recognition of
the fact that in this nation individual liberty depends
in large part upon freedom from unreasonable intrusion
by those in authority. It is the duty of this Court to
give effect to that freedom.

TRUPIANO v. UNITED STATES.
699

Opinion of the Court.

In January, 1946, the petitioners sought to lease part
of the Kell farm in Monmouth County, New Jersey, and
to erect a building thereon. Kell suspected that they
intended to build and operate an illegal still. He accordingly reported the matter to the appropriate federal authority, the Alcohol Tax Unit of the Bureau of Internal
Revenue. The federal agents told Kell to accept the
proposition, provided he did nothing to entice or encourage the petitioners into going ahead with their plans and
provided he kept the agents informed of all developments.
Nilsen, one of the agents, was assigned in February to
work on the farm in the disguise of a "dumb farm hand"
and to accept work at the still if petitioners should
offer it.
Toward the end of March, 1946, Kell agreed with petitioners to let them rent part of his farm for $300 a month.
Kell and Nilsen assisted petitioners in the erection of
the building, a roughly constructed barn about 200 yards
from the Kell farmhouse. Nilsen also assisted in the
erection of the still and the vats.
Operation of the still began about May 13, 1946. Nilsen thereafter worked as "mash man" at a salary of $100
a week, which he turned over to the Government. During this period he was in constant communication with
his fellow agents. By prearrangement, he would meet
one or more of the agents at various places within a few
miles of the Kell farm; at these meetings "the conversation would be about the still building I had assisted in
erecting or about the illicit distillery that I was working
at on the Kell farm." On May 20 he met with one of
his superior officers and gave him samples of alcohol,
several sugar bags, a yeast wrapper and an empty fivegallon can which had been taken from the still premises.
On May 26 Nilsen received a two-way portable radio
set from his superiors. He used this set to transmit frequent bulletins on the activities of the petitioners. On

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

the basis of radio intelligence supplied by Nilsen, a truckload of alcohol was seized on May 31 about an hour after
it had left the farm.
At about 9 p. m. in the evening of June 3, 1946, Nilsen
radioed his superior that the still operators were awaiting
the arrival of a load of sugar and that alcohol was to be
taken from the farm when the sugar truck arrived. Nilsen apparently knew then that a raid was scheduled for
thdt night, for he told Kell auring the evening that
"tonight is the night." He radioed at 11 p. m. that the
truck had been delayed but that petitioners Roett andAntoniole were at the still.
Three federal agents then drove to within three miles
of the farm, at which point they were met by Kell. The
remainder of the distance was traversed in Kell's automobile. They arrived at the farm at about 11:45 p. m.
The agents stated that the odor of fermenting mash and,
the sound of a gasoline motor were noticeable as the car
was driven onto the farm premises; the odor became
stronger and the noise louder as they alighted from the
car and approached the building containing the still.
Van De Car, one of the agents, went around one end of
the building. Looking through an open door into a dimly
lighted interior he could see a still- column, a boiler and
a gasoline pump in operation. He also saw Antoniole
bending down near the pump. He entered the building
and placed Antoniole under arrest. Thereupon he "seized
the illicit distillery."
After this arrest and seizure, Van De Car looked about
further and observed a large number of five-gallon cans
which he later found to contain alcohol and some vats
which contained fermenting mash. Another Agent,
Casey, testified that he could see several of these cans
through the open door before he entered; he- subsequently
counted the cans and found that there were 262 of them.
After he entered he saw the remainder of the' distillery

TRUPIANO v. UNITED STATES.
699

Opinion of the Court.

equipment, including four large mash vats. The third
agent, Gettel, proceeded to a small truck standing in the
yard and "searched it thoroughly for papers and things
of an evidentiary nature." It does not appear whether
he was successful in his search or whether he took anything from the truck.
A few minutes later Roett was arrested outside the
building. Petitioners Trupiano and Riccardelli apparently were arrested later that night by other agents, the
place and the circumstances not being revealed by the
record before us. In addition, three other persons were
arrested that .night because of their connections with the
illegal operations; one of them, who was unknown to
Nilsen, was arrested when he arrived at the farm with
a truck loaded with coke.
The agents engaged in this raid -without securing a
search warrant or warrants of arrest. It is undenied that
they had more than adequate opportunity to obtain such
warrants before the raid occurred, various federal judges
and commissioners being readily available.
All of the persons arrested were charged with various
violations of the Internal Revenue Code arising out of
their ownership and operation of the distillery. Prior to
the return of an indictment against them, the four petitioners filed in the District Court for the District of New
Jersey a motion alleging that the federal agents had illegally seized "a still, alcohol, mash and other equipment,"
and asking that "all such evidence" be excluded and suppressed at any trial and that "all of the aforesaid property"
be returned. The District Court denied the motion after
a hearing, holding that the seizure was reasonable and
hence constitutional. 70 F. Supp. 764. The Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed per curiam
the order of the District Court. 163 F. 2d 828.
Thus we have a case where contraband property was
seized by federal agents without a search warrant under

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

circumstances where such a warrant could easily have
been obtained. The Government, however, claims that
the failure to secure the warrant has no effect upon the
validity of the seizure. Reference is made to the well
established right of law enforcement officers to arrest
without a warrant for a felony committed in their presence, Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S. 132, 156-157,
a right said to be unaffected by the fact that there may
have been adequate time to procure a warrant of arrest.
Since one of the petitioners, Antoniole, was arrested while
engaged in operating an illegal still in the presence of
agents of the Alcohol Tax Unit, his arrest was valid under
this view even though it occurred without the benefit of
a warrant. And since this arrest was valid, the argument
is made that the seizure of the contraband open to view
at the time of the arrest was also lawful. Reliance is
here placed on the long line of cases recognizing that an
arresting officer may look around at the time of the arrest
and seize those fruits and evidences of crime or those
contraband articles which are in plain sight and in his
immediate and discernible presence. Weeks v. United
States, 232 U. S. 383, 392; Carrollv. United States, supra,
158; Agnello v. United States, 269 U. S. 20, 30; United
States v. Lee, 274 U. S. 559, 563; Marronv. United States,
275 U. S. 192, 198-199; Go-Bart Co. v. United States, 282
U. S. 344, 358; United States v. Lef kowitz, 285 U. S. 452,
465; Harris v. United States, 331 U. S. 145, 150-151.
We sustain the Government's contention that the arrest
of Antoniole was valid. The federal agents had more
than adequate cause, based upon the information supplied by Nilsen, to suspect that Antoniole was engaged
in felonious activities on the farm premises. Acting on
that suspicion, the agents went to the farm and entered
onto the premises with the consent of Kell, the owner.
There Antoniole was seen through an open doorway by
one of the agents to be operating an illegal still. an act

TRUPIANO v. UNITED STATES.
699

Opinion of the Court.

felonious in nature. His arrest was therefore valid on the
theory that he was committing a felony in the discernible
presence of an agent of the Alcohol Tax Unit, a peace
officer of the United States. The absence of a warrant of
arrest, even though there was sufficient time to obtain one,
does not destroy the validity of an arrest under these
circumstances. Warrants of arrest are designed to meet
the dangers of unlimited and unreasonable arrests of persons who are not at the moment committing any crime.
Those dangers, obviously, are not present where a felony
plainly occurs before the eyes of an officer of the law at a
place where he is lawfully present. Common sense then
dictates that an arrest in that situation is valid despite
the failure to obtain a warrant of arrest.
But we cannot agree that the seizure of the contraband
property was made in conformity with the requirements
of the Fourth Amendment. It is a cardinal rule that,
in seizing goods and articles, law enforcement agents must
secure and use search warrants wherever reasonably practicable. Carroll v. United States, supra, 156; Go-Bart
Co. v. United States, supra, 358; Taylor v. United States,
286 U. S. 1, 6; Johnson v. United States, 333 U. S. 10,
14-15. This rule rests upon the desirability of having
magistrates rather than police officers determine when
searches and seizures are permissible and what limitations
should be placed upon such activities. United States v.
Lefkowitz, supra, 464. In their understandable zeal to
ferret out crime and in the excitement of the capture of a
suspected person, officers are less likely to possess the
detachment and neutrality with which the constitutional
rights of the suspect must be viewed. To provide the
necessary securlty against unreasonable intrusions upon
the private lives of individuals, the framers of the Fourth
Amendment required adherence to judicial processes
wherever possible. And subsequent history has confirmed the wisdom of that requirement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

The facts of this case do not measure up to the foregoing standard. The agents of the Alcohol Tax Unit
knew every detail of the construction and operation of
the illegal distillery long before the raid was made. One
of them was assigned to work on the farm along with
the illicit operators, making it possible for him to secure
and report the minutest facts. In cooperation with the
farm owner, who served as an informer, this agent was
in a position to supply information which could easily
have formed the basis for a detailed and effective search
warrant. Concededly, there was an abundance of time
during which such a warrant could have been secured,
even on the night of the raid after the odor and noise
of the distillery confirmed their expectations. And the
property was not of a type that could have been dismantled and removed before the agents had time to secure a warrant; especially is this so since one of them was
on hand at all times to report and guard against such a
move. See United States v. Kaplan,89 F. 2d 869, 871.
What was said in Johnson v. United States, supra, 15,
is equally applicable here: "No reason is offered for not
obtaining a search warrant except the inconvenience to
the officers and some slight delay necessary to prepare
papers and present the evidence to a magistrate. These
are never very convincing reasons and, in these circumstances, certainly are not enough to by-pass the constitutional requirement. . . . If the officers in this case
were excused from the constitutional duty of presenting
their evidence to a magistrate, it is difficult to think of a
case in which it should be required."
And so when the agents of the Alcohol Tax Unit decided to dispense with a search warrant and to take matters into their own hands, they did precisely what the
Fourth Amendment was designed to outlaw. Uninhibited by any limitations that might have been contained
in a warrant, they descended upon the distillery in a mid-

TRUPIANO v. UNITED STATES.
699

Opinion of the Court.

night raid. Nothing circumscribed their activities on that
raid except their own good senses, which the authors of the
Amendment deemed insufficient to justify a search or
seizure except in exceptional circumstances not here present. The limitless possibilities afforded by the absence
of a warrant were epitomized by the one agent who
admitted searching "thoroughly" a small truck parked
in the farmyard for items of an evidentiary character.
The fact that they actually seized only contraband property, which would doubtless have been described in a
warrant had one been issued, does not detract from the
illegality of the seizure. See Amos v. United States, 255
U. S. 313; Byars v. United States, 273 U. S. 28; Taylor
v. United States, supra.
Moreover, the proximity of the contraband property to
the person of Antoniole at the moment of his arrest was a
fortuitous circumstance which was inadequate to legalize
the seizure. As we have seen, the existence of this property and the desirability of seizing it were known to the
agents long before the seizure and formed one of the
main purposes of the raid. Likewise, the arrest of Antoniole and the other petitioners in connection with the
illicit operations was a foreseeable event motivating the
raid. But the precise location of the petitioners at the
time of their arrest had no relation to the foreseeability
or necessity of the seizure. The practicability of obtaining a search warrant did not turn upon whether Antoniole
and the others were within the distillery building when
arrested or upon whether they were then engaged in operating the illicit equipment. Antoniole just happened to
be working amid the contraband surroundings at 11:45
p. m. on the night in, question, while the other three petitioners chanced to be some place else. But Antoniole
might well have been outside the building at that particular time. If that had been the case and he had been
arrested in the farmyard, the entire argument advanced

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

by the Government in support of the seizure without
warrant would collapse. We do not believe that the
applicability of the Fourth Amendment to the facts of
this case depends upon such a fortuitous factor as the
precise location of Antoniole at the time of the raid.
In other words, the presence or absence of an arrestee
at the exact time and place of a foreseeable and anticipated seizure does not determine the validity of that
seizure if it occurs without a warrant. Rather the test
is the apparent need for summary seizure, a test which
clearly is not satisfied by the facts before us.
A search or seizure without a warrant as an incident
to a lawful arrest has always been considered to be a
strictly limited right. It grows out of the inherent necessities of the situation at the time of the arrest. But there
must be something more in the way of necessity than
merely a lawful arrest. The mere fact that there is a valid
arrest does not ipso facto legalize a search or seizure without a warrant. Carroll v. United States, supra, 158.
Otherwise the exception swallows the general principle,
making a search warrant completely unnecessary wherever there is a lawful arrest. And so there must be
some other factor in the situation that would make
it unreasonable or impracticable to require the arresting officer to equip himself with a search warrant. In
the case before us, however, no reason whatever has been
shown why the arresting officers could not have armed
themselves during all the weeks of their surveillance of
the locus with a duly obtained search warrant-no reason,
that is, except indifference to the legal process for search
and seizure which the Constitution contemplated.
We do not take occasion here to reexamine the situation
involved in Harrisv. United States, supra. The instant
case relates only to the seizure of contraband the existence
and precise nature and location of which the law enforcement officers were aware long before making the lawful
arrest. That circumstance was wholly lacking in the

TRUPIANO v. UNITED STATES.
699

Opinion of the Court.

Harris case, which was concerned with the permissible
scope of a general search without a warrant as an incident
to a lawful arrest. Moreover, the Harris case dealt with
the seizure of Government property which could not have
been the subject of a prior search warrant, it having
been found unexpectedly during the course of a search.
In contrast, the contraband seized in this case could easily
have been specified in a prior search warrant. These
factual differences may or may not be of significance so far
as general principles are concerned. But the differences
are enough to justify confining ourselves to the precise
facts of this case, leaving it to another day to test the
Harrissituation by the rule that search warrants are to be
obtained and used wherever reasonably practicable.
What we have here is a set of facts governed by a
principle indistinguishable from that recognized and applied in Taylor v. United States, supra. The Court there
held that the seizure of illicit whiskey was unreasonable,
however well-grounded the suspicions of the federal
agents, where there was an abundant opportunity to
obtain a search warrant and to proceed in an orderly,
judicial way. True, the Taylor case did not involve a
seizure in connection with an arrest. And the officers
there made an unlawful entry onto the premises. But
those factors had no relation to the practicability of obtaining a search warrant before making the seizure. It
was the time element and the foreseeability of the need
for a search and seizure that made the warrant essential.
The Taylor case accordingly makes plain the illegality
of the seizure in the instant proceeding.
The Fourth Amendment was designed to protect both
the innocent and the guilty from unreasonable intrusions
upon their right of privacy while leaving adequate room
for the necessary processes of law enforcement. The
people ,of the United States insisted on writing the
Fourth Amendment into the Constitution because sad
experience had taught them that the right to search and

710

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
VINSON, C.

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

seize should not be left to the mere discretion of the
police, but should as - matter of principle be subjectedto
the requirement of previous judicial sanction wherever
possible. The effective operation of government, however, could hardly be embarrassed by the requirement that
arresting officers who have three weeks or more within
which to secure the authorization of judicial authority
for making search and seizure should secure such authority and not be left to their own discretion as to what is
to be searched and what is to be seized. Such a requirement partakes of the very essence of the orderly and
effective administration of the law.
It is a mistake to assume that a search warrant in
these circumstances would contribute nothing to the
preservation of the rights protected by the Fourth
Amendment. A search warrant must describe with particularity the place to be searched and the things to be
seized. Without such a warrant, however, officers are
free to determine for themselves the extent of their search
and the precise objects to be seized. This is no small
difference. It is a difference upon which depends much
of the potency of the right of privacy. And it is a difference that must be preserved even where contraband
articles are seized in connection with a valid arrest.
It follows that it was error to refuse petitioners' motion
to exclude and suppress the property which was improperly seized. But since this property was contraband, they
have no right to have it returned to them.
Reversed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON, with whom MR. JUSTICE
BLACK, MR. JUSTICE REED and MR. JUSTICE BURTON

concur, dissenting.
Federal officers, following a lawful arrest, seized contraband materials which were being employed in open
view in violation and defiance of the laws of the land.

TRUPIANO v. UNITED STATES.
699

VINSON, C. J., dissenting.

Today, the Court for the first time has branded such a
seizure illegal. Nothing in the explicit language of the
Fourth Amendment dictates that result. Nor is that
holding supported by any decision of this Court.
The material facts are not in dispute. -In January,
1946, certain of the petitioners approached one Kell offering to rent a portion of the latter's farm on which a
building was to be erected. His suspicions aroused, Kell
reported the matter to agents of the Alcohol Tax Unit
of the Bureau of Internal Revenue. He was advised that
the offer could be accepted provided that nothing was
done to entice petitioners into completion of their plans.
An agent, Nilsen, was assigned to the farm to act the
part of a farm hand in the employ of Kell.
Ultimately, an agreement was entered into whereby
Kell rented a portion of his farm to petitioners at $300
a month. Petitioners, with the assistance of Kell and
Nilsen, constructed a barn-like structure some two hundred yards from the farmhouse. A still and vats were
installed. After the still began operation, Nilsen acted
as a "mash man" receiving a salary of $100 a week from
petitioners. All sums received by Nilsen were turned
over to the Federal Government.
Throughout this period, Nilsen reported regularly to
his superiors. As a result of this information, federal
agents on May 31, 1946, seized a truckload of alcohol
about an hour after it had left the Kell farm.
The night of June 3, 1946, was chosen by the agents
to conduct their raid. Kell cooperated fully with the
officers and drove three of the agents to the farm in his
own car. As the car entered the farm premises, the odor
of fermenting mash and the sound of a gasoline motor
became apparent. When the agents alighted from the car
it was obvious that the sound and the odor were emanating from the building in which the still was located. One
of the agents approached the structure and through an

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
VINSON, C. J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

open door observed a still and a boiler. He also saw
the petitioner Antoniole bending over a gasoline pump.
The agent entered the building and placed Antoniole
under arrest on the theory that a crime was being committed in his presence. Subsequently, the agent seized
the still, mash vats containing fermenting mash, other
distillery equipment, and 262 five-gallon cans containing
illicit alcohol. Neither the arrest nor the seizure was
effected under the authority of a warrant. Later six
other persons were arrested, including three of the petitioners in this case.'
There can be no doub that the activities of petitioners
were in flagrant violationof the laws of the United States2
It is clear, also, that the materials seized consisted of
instrumentalities used by petitioners in their criminal
enterprise and contraband goods, possession of which is
a crime. The materials and objects falling into the control of the federal agents, therefore, were of the type
properly subject fo lawful seizure.
Further; it is obvious that entry of the federal agents
onto the farm premises was in no sense trespassory or
otherwise illegal. Amos v. United States, 255 U. S. 313
(1921); Byars v. United States, 273 U. S. 28 (1927).
1Subsequently, petitioners moved the District Court to order the
return of the property seized and to suppress its use as evidence.
70 F. Supp. 764 (1947). The motion was denied. The order was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals in a per curiam statement.
163 F. 2d 828 (1947).
2 See §§ 2803, 2810, 2812, 2814, 2831, 2833 of the Internal Revenue
Code.
3
Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, 623, 624 (1886); Weeks
v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, 392-393 (1914); Gouled v. United
States, 255 U. S. 298, 309 (1921); Carrollv. United States, 267 U. S.
132, 149-150 (1925); Agnello v. United States, 269 U. S. 20, 30
(1925); Marron v. United States, 275 U. S. 192, 199 (1927); United
States v. Lefkowitz, 285 U. S. 452, 465-466 (1932);.Harris v. United
States, 331 U. S. 145,154 (1947).

TRUPIANO v. UNITED STATES.
699

VINSON,

C. J., dissenting.

Kell, the owner of the farm, gave his active consent to
the entry. Indeed, he voluntarily drove three of the
agents to the premises in his own car.
Nor can there be doubt that the arrest of the petitioner
Antoniole while engaged in the commission of a felony in
the presence of the agent was a valid arrest. The majority of the Court explicitly concedes such to be the fact.
Under the English common law, a police officer had power
without a warrant to arrest persons committing a misdemeanor in the officer's presence and persons whom the
officer had reasonable cause to believe had committed
a felony. This rule, which had its origin in the ancient
formative period of the common law, was firmly established at the time of the adoption of the Fourth Amendment.4 Since that time it has received general application by state and federal courts.' Indeed, this Court has
heretofore given specific recognition to the rule. Carroll
v. UnitedStates, 267 U. S. 132, 156-157 (1925).'
Thus, even though agents charged with enforcement
of the laws of the United States made a lawful entry
onto the farm and despite the fact that a valid arrest
was made of a party who was in the act of committing
a felony, the Court now holds that the arresting officer
in the absence of a search warrant was powerless to make
a valid seizure of contraband materials located in plain
sight in the structure in which the arrest -took place.
And this despite the long line of decisions in this Court
recognizing as consistent with the restrictions of the
Fourth Amendment the power of law-enforcement officers
4

Samuel v. Payne, 1 Doug. K. B. 359 (1780); Wakely v. Hart,
6 Binn. 316 (1814). And see 2 Hale, Pleas of the Crown 85-97;
4 Blackstone, Commentaries 292-293; Wilgus, Arrest Without a Warrant, 22 Mich. L. Rev. 541, 673.
5 United States v. Daison, 288 F. 199 (1923); Rohan v. Sawin,
5 Cush. 281 (1850) ; Wade v. Chaliee, 8 R. . 224 (1865).
' Cf. Kurtz v. Moffitt, 115 U. S. 487, 498-499 (1855).
792588 0-48-50

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
VINSON, C. J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

to make reasonable searches and seizures as incidents to
lawful arrests.
In Agnello v. United.States, 269 U. S. 20,30 (1925), this
Court stated: "The right without a search warrant contemporaneously to search persons lawfully arrested while
committing crime and to search the place where the arrest
is made in order to find and seize things connected with
the crime . . . as well as weapons and other things to
effect an escape from custody, is not to be doubted ...
Such searches and seizures naturally and usually appertain to and attend such arrests."7 And see Weeks v.
United States, 232 U. S. 383, 392 (1914); Carrollv. United
States, supra at 158; United States v. Lee, 274 U. S. 559,
563 (1927); Marron v. United States, 275 U. S. 192, 198199 (1927); Go-Bart Importing Co. v. United States, 282
U. S. 344, 358 (1931); United States v. Lefkowitz, 285
U. S. 452, 465 (1932); Harris v. United States, 331 U. S.
145, 150-151,168,186 (1947).
The validity of a search and seizure as incident to
a lawful arrest has been based upon a recognition by
this Court that where law-enforcement agents have lawfully gained entrance into premises and haVe executed a
valid arrest of the occupant, the vital rights of privacy
protected by the Fourth Amendment are not denied by
seizure of contraband materials and instrumentalities of
crime in open view or such as may be brought to light
by a reasonable search. . Here there can be no objection
to the scope or intensity of the search. Cf. Marron v.
United States, supra; Go-Bart Importing Co. v. United
States, supra; United States v. Lefkowitz, supra; Harris
v. United States, supra. The seizure was not preceded
by an exploratory search. The objects seized were in
plain sight. To insist upon the use of a search warrant
in situations where the issuance of such a warrant can
contribute nothing to the preservation of the rights which
And see id. at 32, 33.

TRUPIANO v. UNITED STATES.
699

VINsON, C.

J., dissenting.

the Fourth Amendment was intended to protect, serves
only to open an avenue of escape for those guilty of crime
and to menace the effective operation of government
which is an essential precondition to the existence of all
civil liberties.
In reaching its result the Court relies'on Taylor v.
United States, 286 U. S. 1 (1932). There, federal agents
broke into a garage and seized a quantity of illicit liquor.
At the time of entry, "No one was within the place and
there was no reason to think otherwise." Id. at 5. The
agents acted without the authority of a search warrant,
nor, unlike the present case, was lawful entry into the
building made for the purpose of effecting a valid arrest.
Under these circumstances the Court ruled that the seizure was unlawful. But to apply that holding in a situation like the present, where law-enforcement officers have
entered a building to arrest a party openly engaged in
the commission of a felony, is to disregard the very basis
upon which the Taylor case was decided.
We are told, however, that although the petitioner
Antoniole was arrested while undeniably engaged in the
commission of a felony, his presence in the building in
which the contraband materials were located was a "fortuitous circumstance which was inadequate to legalize the
seizure." We should suppose that any arrest of a party
engaged in the commission of a felony is based in part
upon an element of chance. Criminals do not normally
choose to engage in felonious enterprises before an audience of police officials. We may well anticipate the perplexity of officers engaged in the practical business of law
enforcement when confronted with a rule which makes
the validity of a seizure of contraband materials as an
incident to a lawful arrest dependent upon subsequent
judicial judgment as to the "fortuitous" circumstances
relating to the presence of the party arrested on the premises in which the illegal goods are located.

716

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
VINSON, C.

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

Nor are we free to assume that the agents in this case
would have proceeded illegally to seize the materials in
the barn in the absence of the justification of a valid
arrest. A lawful seizure is not to be invalidated by speculations as to what the conduct of the agents might have
been had a different factual situation been presented.
The case of Johnson v. United States, 333 U. S. 10
(1948), does not support the result which the Court has
reached. For there the majority of the Court held that
the arrest in question was an invalid one. Obviously,
a search and seizure may not be held valid on the sole
ground that it was an incident to an invalid arrest. Such
is not the situation here.
In Carroll v. United States, supra at 149, -this Court
observed: "The Fourth Amendment is to be construed in
the light of what was deemed an unreasonable search and
seizure when it was adopted, and in a manner which will
conserve public interests as well as the interests and rights
of individual citizens." We believe that the result
reached today is not consistent with judicial authority
as it existed before the adoption of the Fourth Amendment nor as it has developed since that time. Nor do
we feel that the decision commends itself as adapted to
conserve vital public and individual interests. Heretofore it has been thought that where officers charged
with the responsibility of enforcement of the law have
lawfully entered premises and executed a valid arrest,
a reasonable accommodation of the interests of society
and the individual permits such officials to seize instrumentalities of the crime and contraband materials in open
view of the arresting officer. The Court would now condition this right of seizure after a valid arrest upon an
ex post facto judicial judgment of whether the arresting
officers might have obtained a search warrant. At best,
the operation of the rule which the Court today enunciates-for the first time may be expected to confound
confusion in a field already replete with complexities.

