OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

lation of commerce burdening it in the sense of materially
increasing the shipper's costs. Many valid regulations
of commerce do this. The regulation in question goes
farther. It is aimed in terms directly at interstate commerce alone, and thus would seem to be discriminatory in
intent and effect upon that commerce. Moreover, in my
opinion, it is of such a character that, if applied, for all
practical purposes it would block the commerce.
Since it was exactly that sort of state regulation the
commerce clause was designed to strike down, I agree
that this one cannot stand. The same considerations I
also think would be applicable to nullify the license fees
levied against nonresidents, since upon the record their
transportation of catches would seem to be exclusively
in interstate commerce, or practically so.

T'AKAHASHI v. FISH AND GAME COMMISSION
ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 533.

Argued April 21-22,1948.-Decided June 7, 1948.

1. A California statute barring issuance of commercial fishing licenses
to persons "ineligible to citizenship," which classification included
resident' alien Japanese and precluded such a one from earning his
living as a commercial fisherman in the ocean waters off the coast
of the State, held invalid under the Federal Constitution and laws.
Pp. 412-422.
2. For purposes of decision by this Court, it may be assumed that
the object of the statute was to conserve fish in the coastal waters
of the State, or to protect citizens of the State engaged in commercial fishing from the competition of Japanese aliens, or both.
P. 418.
3. That the United States regulates immigration and naturalization
in part on the basis of race and color classifications does not
authorize adoption by a State of such classifications to prevent
lawfully admitted aliens within its borders from earning a livelihood by means open to all other inhabitants. Pp. 418-420.

TAKAHASHI v. FISH COMM'N.
410

Counsel for Parties.

4. The Fourteenth Amendment and federal laws, 8 U. S. C. § 41,
embody a general policy that all persons lawfully in this country
shall abide "in any state" on an equality of legal privileges with
all citizens under non-discriminatory laws. Pp. 419-420.
5. Whatever may be the interest of the State or its citizens in the
fish in the 3-mile belt offshore, that interest does not justify the
State in excluding any or all aliens who are lawful residents of
the State from making a living by fishing in the ocean off its shores
while permitting all other persons to do so. Pp. 420-421.
6. Assuming their continued validity, cases sustaining state laws
barring land ownership by aliens ineligible to citizenship, which
rested on grounds peculiar to real property, can not be extended
to control the decision in this case. P. 422.
30 Cal. 2d 719, 185 P. 2d 805, reversed.

Petitioner brought an action in a state court for mandamus to compel issuance to him of a commercial fishing
license. A judgment granting the writ was reversed by
the State Supreme Court, 30 Cal. 2d 719, 185 P. 2d 805.
This Court granted certiorari. 333 U. S. 853. Reversed,
p. 422.
A. L. Wirin and Dean Acheson argued the cause for
petitioner. With them on the brief were Charles A.
Horsky and FredOkrand.
Ralph Winfield Scott, Deputy Attorney General of
California, argued the cause for respondents. With him
on the brief was Fred N. Howser, Attorney General.
Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed by
Attorney General Clark, Solicitor GeneralPerlman,Philip
Elman and James L. Morrisson for the United States;
Arthur Garfield Hays and Edward J. Ennis for the American Civil Liberties Union; William Maslow, William
Strong and Ambrose Doskow for the American Jewish
Congress; Phineas Indritz and Jacob W. Rosenthal for
the American Veterans Committee.; Edward J. Ennis for
the Home Missions Council of North America et al.;

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

Saburo Kido for the Japanese American Citizens League;
and Thurgood Marshall and Marian Wynn Perry for the
National Lawyers Guild et al.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The respondent, Torao Takahashi, born in Japan, came
to this country and became a resident of California in
1907. Federal laws, based on distinctions of "color and
race," Toyota v. United States, 268 U. S. 402, 411-412,
have permitted Japanese and certain other non-white
racial groups to enter and reside in the country, but
have made them ineligible for United States citizenship.' The question presented is whether California can,
consistently with the Federal Constitution and laws
passed pursuant to it, use this federally created racial
ineligibility for citizenship as a basis for barring Takahashi from earning his living as a commercial fisherman
in the ocean waters off the coast of California.
1 The comprehensive laws adopted by Congress regulating the
immigration and naturalization of aliens are included in Title 8 of
the U. S. Code; for codification of laws governing racial and color
prerequisites of aliens to citizenship see 8 U. S. C. § 703. An act
adopted by the first Congress in 1790 made "free white persons" only

eligible for citizenship. 1 Stat. 103. Later acts have extended
eligibility of aliens to citizenship to the following groups: in 1870,

"aliens of African nativity and . . . persons of African descent," 16

Stat. 254, 256; in 1940, "descendants of races indigenous to the
Western Hemisphere," 54 Stat. 1137, 1140; in 1943, "Chinese persons
or persons of Chinese descent," 57 Stat. 600, 601; and in 1946, Filipinos and "persons of races indigenous to India," 60 Stat. 416. While
it is not wholly clear what racial groups other than Japanese are now
ineligible to citizenship, it is clear that Japanese are among the few
groups still not eligible, see Oyama v. California,332 U. S.633, 635, n.
3, and that, according to the 1940 census, Japanese aliens constituted
the great majority of aliens living in the United States then ineligible
for citizenship. See concurring opinion of MR.JUSTICE MURPHY in
Oyama v. California,supra at 650, 665, 666, nn. 20 and 22.

TAKAHASHI v. FISH COMM'N.
410

Opinion of the Court.

Prior to 1943 California issued commercial fishing licenses to all qualified persons without regard to alienage
or ineligibility to citizenship. From 1915 to 1942 Takahashi, under annual commercial fishing licenses issued by
the State, fished in ocean waters off the California coast,
apparently both within and without the three-mile coastal
belt, and brought his fresh fish ashore for sale. In 1942,
while this country was at war with Japan, Takahashi
and other California residents of Japanese ancestry were
evacuated from the State under military orders. See
Korematsu v. United States, 323 U. S. 214. In 1943,
during the period of war and evacuation, an amendment to the California Fish and Game Code was adopted
prohibiting issuance of a license to any "alien Japanese." Cal. Stats. 1943, ch. 1100. In 1945, the state
code was again amended by striking the 1943 provision
for fear that it might be "declared unconstitutional"
because directed only "against alien Japanese"; 2 the new
amendment banned issuance of licenses to any "person ineligible to citizenship," which classification included Japanese. Cal. Stats. 1945, ch. 181.' Because of this state
2 Report
of the California Senate Fact-Finding Committee on
Japanese Resettlement, May 1, 1945, pp. 5-6.
3 As amended the code section now reads:
"Persons required to
procure license: To whom issuable. Every person who uses or operates or assists in using or operating any boat, net, trap, line, or other
appliance to take fish, mollusks or crustaceans for profit, or who
brings or causes fish, mollusks or crustaceans to be brought ashore at
any point in the State for the purpose of selling the same in a fresh
state, shall procure a commercial fishing license.
"A commercial fishing license may be issued to any person other
than a person ineligible to citizenship. A commercial fishing license
may be issued to a corporation only if said corporation is authorized
to do business in this State, if none of the officers or directors thereof
are persons ineligible to citizenship, and if less than the majority
of each class of stockholders thereof are persons ineligible to citizenship." Cal. Fish and Game Code § 990. In 1947 the code was

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

provision barring issuance of commercial fishing licenses
to persons ineligible for citizenship under federal law,
Takahashi, who met all other state requirements, was
denied a license by the California Fish and Game Commission upon his return to California in 1945.
Takahashi brought this action for mandamus in the
Superior Court of Los Angeles County, California, to
compel the Commission to issue a license to him. That
court granted the petition for mandamus. It held that
lawful alien inhabitants of California, despite their ineligibility to citizenship, were entitled to engage in the
vocation of commercial fishing on the high seas beyond
the three-mile belt on the same terms as other lawful
state inhabitants, and that the California code provision
denying them this right violated the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The State Sinpreme Court, three judges dissenting, reversed, holding
that California had a proprietary interest in fish in the
ocean waters within three miles of the shore, and that this
interest justified the State in barring all aliens in general
and aliens ineligible to citizenship in particular from
catching fish within or without the three-mile coastal belt
and bringing them to California for commercial purposes.
30 Cal. 2d 719, 185 P. 2d 805.' To review this question
amended to permit "any person, not a citizen of the United States,"
to obtain hunting and sport fishing licenses, both of which had been
denied to "alien Japanese" and to persons "ineligible to citizenship"
under the 1943 and 1945 amendments. Cal. Stats. 1947, c. 1329; Cal.
Fish and Game Code §§ 427, 428.
4 The Superior Court first ordered issuance of a commercial fishing
license authorizing Takahashi to bring ashore "catches of fish from
the waters of the high seas beyond the State's territorial jurisdiction."
After appeal to the State Supreme Court by the State Commission
the Superior Court amended its judgment so as to order a commercial
license authorizing Takahashi to bring in catches of fish taken from
the three-mile ocean belt adjacent to the California coast as well
as fromr. the high seas. The State Supreme Court held that the

TAKAHASHI v. FISH COMM'N.
410

Opinion of the Court.

of importance in the fields of federal-state relationships
and of constitutionally protected individual equality and
liberty, we granted certiorari.
We may well begin our consideration of the principles
to be applied in this case by a summary of this Court's
holding in Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, not deemed controlling by the majority of the California Supreme Court,
but regarded by the dissenters as requiring the invalidation of the California law. That case involved an attack
upon an Arizona law which required all Arizona employers
of more than five workers to hire not less than eighty (80)
per cent qualified electoks or native-born citizens of the
United States. Raich, an alien who worked as a cook
in a restaurant which had more than five employees, was
about to lose his job solely because of the state law's
coercive effect on the restaurant owner. This Court, in
upholding Raich's contention that the Arizona law was
invalid, declared that Raich, 'having been lawfully admitted into the country under federal law, had a federal
privilege to enter and abide in "any State in the Union"
and thereafter under the Fourteenth Amendment to
Superior Court was without jurisdiction to amend its judgment after
appeal and accordingly treated the amended judgment as void. California argues here that its State Fish and Game Commission is
authorized by statute to issue only one type of commercial fishing
license, namely, one permitting ocean fish to be brought ashore
whether caught within or without the three-mile belt, that the
Superior Court's first judgment ordering issuance of a license limited
to catches of high seas fish directed the Commission to do something
it was without authority to do, and that on this ground we should
affirm the state court's denial of the requested license. The State
Supreme Court did not, however, decide the case on that ground, but

ruled against petitioner on the ground that the challenged code
provision was valid under the Federal Constitution and that the

Commission's refusal to grant a license was required by its terms.
Since the state court of last resort relied solely upon federal grounds
for its decision, we may properly review its action here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

enjoy the equal protection of the laws of the state in
which he abided; that this privilege to enter in and abide
in any state carried with it the "right to work for a living
in the common occupations of the community," a denial
of which right would'make of the Amendment "a barren
form of words." In answer to a contention that Arizona's
restriction upon the employment of aliens was "reasonable" and therefore permissible, this Court declared:
"It must also be said that reasonable classification
implies action consistent with the legitimate interests of the State, and it will not be disputed that
these cannot be so broadly conceived as to bring them
into hostility to exclusive Federal power. The authority to control immigration-to admit or exclude
aliens--is vested solely in the Federal Government.
Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698, 713.
The assertion of an authority to deny to aliens the
opportunity of earning a livelihood when lawfully
admitted to the State would be tantamount to the
assertion of the righit to deny them entrance and
abode, for in ordinary cases they cannot live where
they cannot work. And, if such a policy were permissible, the practical result would be that those lawfully admitted to the country under the authority
of the acts of Congress, instead of enjoying in a substantial sense and in their full scope the privileges
conferred by the admission, would be segregated in
such of the States as chose to offer hospitality."
Truax v. Raich, supra at 42.
Had the Truax decision said nothing further than what
is quoted above, its reasoning, if followed, would seem to
require invalidation of this California code provision
barring aliens from the occupation of fishing as inconsistent with federal law, which is constitutionally declared to be "the supreme Law of the Land." However,

TAKAHASHI v. FISH COMM'N.
410

Opinion of the Court.

the Court. there went on to note that it had on occasion
sustained state legislation that did not apply alike to
citizens and non-citizens, the ground for the distinction
being that such laws were necessary to protect special
interests either of the state or of its citizens as such. The
Truax opinion pointed out that the Arizona law, aimed
as it was against employment of aliens in all vocations,
failed to show a "special public interest with respect to any
particular business . . . that could possibly be deemed to

support the enactment." The Court noted that it had
previously upheld various state laws which restricted the
privilege of planting oysters in the tidewater rivers of a
state to citizens of that state, and which denied to aliens
within a state the privilege of possessing a rifle and of
shooting game within that state;' it also referred to decisions recognizing a state's broad powers, in the absence
of overriding treaties, to restrict the devolution of real
property to non-aliens.
California now urges, and the State Supreme Court
held, that the California fishing provision here challenged
falls within the rationale of the "special public interest"
cases distinguished in the Truax opinion, and thus that
the state's ban upon commercial fishing by aliens ineligible
to citizenship is valid. The contention is this: California owns the fish within three miles of its coast as a
trustee for all California citizens as distinguished from its
non-citizen inhabitants; as such trustee-owner, it has
complete power to bar any or all aliens from fishing in the
three-mile belt as a means of conserving the supply of
fish; since migratory fish caught while swimming in the
three-mile belt are indistinguishable from those caught
while swimming in the adjacent high seas, the State, in
5 The opinion cited the following cases: McCready v. Virginia, 94
U. S. 391; Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138; Hauenstein v.
Lynham, 100 U. S. 483; and Blythe v. Hinckley, 180 U. S. 333.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

order to enforce its three-mile control, can also regulate
the catching and delivery to its coast of fish caught beyond
the three-mile belt under this Court's decision in Bayside
Fish Co. v. Gentry, 297 U. S. 422. Its law denying fishing licenses to aliens ineligible for citizenship, so the
state's contention goes, tends to reduce the number of
commercial fishermen and therefore is a proper fish conservation measure; in the exercise of its power to decide
what groups will be denied licenses, the State has a right,
if not a duty, to bar first of all aliens, who have no community interest in the fish owned by the State. Finally,
the legislature's denial of licenses to those aliens who are
"ineligible to citizenship" is defended as a reasonable
classification, on the ground that California has simply
followed the Federal Government's lead in adopting that
classification from the naturalization laws.
First. The state's contention that its law was passed
solely as a fish conservation measure is vigorously denied.
The petitioner argues that it was the outgrowth of racial
antagonism directed solely against the Japanese, and that
for this reason alone it cannot stand. See Korematsu v.
United States, supraat 216; Kotch v. Board of River Pilot
Comm'rs, 330 U. S. 552, 556; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118
U. S. 356; In re Ah Chong, 2 F. 733, 737. We find it unnecessary to resolve this controversy concerning the motives that prompted enactment of the legislation.
Accordingly, for purposes of our decision we may assume
that the code provision was passed to conserve fish in
the California coastal waters, or to protect California
citizens engaged in commercial fishing from competition
by Japanese aliens, or for both reasons.
Second. It does not follow, a. California seems to argue,
that because the United States regulates immigration and
naturalization in part on the basis of race and color classifications, a state can adopt one or more of the same
classifications to prevent lawfully admitted aliens within

TAKAHASHI v. FISH COMM'N.
410

Opinion of the Court.

its borders from earning a living in the same way that
other state inhabitants earn their living. The Federal
Government has broad constitutional powers in determining what aliens shall be admitted to the United States,
the period they may remain, regulation of their conduct
before naturalization, and the terms and conditions of
their naturalization. See Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S.
52, 66. Under the Constitution the states are granted
no such powers; they can neither add to nor take from
the conditions lawfully imposed by Congress upon admission, naturalization and residence of aliens in the United
States or the several states. State laws which impose
discriminatory burdens upon the entrance or residence of
aliens lawfully within the United States conflict with this
constitutionally derived federal power to regulate immigration, and have accordingly been held invalid.' Moreover, Congress, in the enactment of a comprehensive legislative plan for the nation-wide control and regulation of
immigration and naturalization, has broadly provided:
"All persons within the jurisdiction of the United
States shall have the same right in every State and
Territory to make and enforce contracts, to sue, be
parties, give evidence, and to the full and equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for the security of
persons and property as is enjoyed by white citizens,
and shall be subject to like punishment, pains, penalties, taxes, licenses, and exactions of every kind, and
to no other." 16 Stat. 140, 144, 8 U. S. C. § 41.
The protection of this section has been held to extend
to aliens as well as to citizens. 7 Consequently the section
6 Truax v. Raich, 8upra; Chy Lung v. Freeman, 92 U. S. 275, 280;
see Hines v. Davidowitz, supra at 65-68.
7 Yick Wo v. Hopkins, supra at 369; United States v. Wong Kim
Ark, 169 U. S. 649, 696; In re Tiburcio Parrott, 1 F. 481, 508-509;
Fraserv. McConway & Torley Co., 82 F. 257.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

and the Fourteenth Amendment on which it rests in
part protect "all persons" against state legislation bearing
unequally upon them either because of alienage or color.
See Hurd v. Hodge, 334 U. S. 24. The Fourteenth
Amendment and the laws adopted under its authority
thus embody a general policy that all persons lawfully
in this country shall abide "in any state" on an equality
of legal privileges with all citizens under non-discriminatory laws.
All of the foregoing emphasizes the tenuousness of the
state's claim that it has power to single out and ban its
lawful alien inhabitants, and particularly certain racial
and color groups within this class of inhabitants, from
following a vocation simply because Congress has put
some such groups in special classifications in exercise of
its broad and wholly distinguishable powers over immigration and naturalization. The state's law here cannot
be supported in the employment of this legislative authority because of policies adopted by Congress in the exercise
of its power to treat separately and differently with aliens
from countries composed of peoples of many diverse cultures, races, and colors. For these reasons the power of
a state to apply its laws exclusively to its alien inhabitants as a class is confined within narrow limits.
Third. We are unable to find that the "special public
interest" on which California relies provides support for
this state ban on Takahashi's commercial fishing. As
before pointed out, California's claim of "special public
interest" is that its citizens are the collective owners of fish
swimming in the three-mile belt. It is true that this
Court did long ago say that the citizens of a state collectively own "the tide-waters . . . and the fish in them, so
far as they are capable of ownership while running." McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 391, 394. Cf. United States
v. California, 332 U. S. 19, 38; Toomer v. Witsell, ante,
p. 385. The McCready case upheld a Virginia law

TAKAHASHI v. FISH COMM'N.
410

Opinion of the Court.

which prohibited citizens of other states from planting
oysters in a Virginia tidewater river. Though the McCready case has been often distinguished,, its rationale
has been relied on in other cases, including Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519. That decision, where only the
commerce clause was involved, sustained a state law
that, in order to restrict the use of game to the people of
the state, prohibited the out-of-state transportation of
game killed within the state. On the other hand, where
Louisiana laws declared that the state owned all shrimp
within the waters of the state, but permitted ultimate sale
and shipment of shrimp for consumption outside that
state's boundaries, Louisiana was denied power under the
commerce clause to require the local processing of shrimp
taken from Louisiana marshes as a prerequisite to outof-state transportation. Foster Packing Co. v. Haydel,
278 U. S. 1. In the absence of overriding federal treaties,
this Court sustained a state law barring aliens from hunting wild game in the interest of conserving game for citizens of the state against due process and equal protection
challenges. Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U., S. 138.
Later, however, the Federal Migratory Bird Treaty Act of
1918, 40 Stat. 755, was sustained as within federal power
despite the claim of Missouri of ownership of birds within
its boundaries based on prior statements as to state ownership of game and fish in the Geer case. Missouri v.
Holland, 252 U. S. 416. The Court was of opinion that
"To put the claim of the State upon title is to lean upon
a slender reed." P. 434. We think that same statement
is equally applicable here. To whatever extent the fish
in the three-mile belt off California may be "capable of
ownership" by California, we think that "ownership" is
inadequate to justify California in excluding any or all
aliens who are lawful residents of the State from making
a living by fishing in the ocean off its shores while permitting all others to do so.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

J., concurring.

334 U. S.

This leaves for consideration the argument that this law
should be upheld on authority of those cases which have
sustained state laws barring aliens ineligible to citizenship
from land ownership.' Assuming the continued validity
of those cases,' we think they could not in any event be
controlling here. They rested solely upon the power of
states to control the devolution and ownership of land
within their borders, a power long exercised and supported
on reasons peculiar to real property. They cannot be
extended to cover this case.
The judgment is reversed and remanded for proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Rever8ed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,
LEDGE agrees, concurring.

with whom MR.

JUSTICE RUT-

The opinion of the Court, in which I join, adequately
expresses my views as to all but one important aspect
of this case. That aspect relates to the fact that § 990
of the California Fish and Game Code, barring those
ineligible to citizenship from securing commercial fishing
licenses, is the direct outgrowth of antagonism toward
persons of Japanese ancestry. Even the most cursory
examination of the background of the statute demonstrates that it was designed solely to discriminate against
such persons in a manner inconsistent with the concept
of equal protection of the laws. Legislation of that type
is not entitled to wear the cloak of constitutionality.
The statute in question is but one more manifestation
of the anti-Japanese fever which has been evident in
California in varying degrees since the turn of the century.
8 Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197; Porterfield v. Webb, 263
U. S. 225; Webb v. O'Brien, 263 U. S. 313; Frick v. Webb, 263 U. S.
326.
9 See Oyama v. California,332 U. S. 633, 646, 649, 672.

TAKAHASHI v. FISH COMM'N.
410

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

See concurring opinion in Oyama v. California,332 U. S.
633, 650, and dissenting opinion in Korematsu v. United
States,. 323 U. S. 214, 233. That fever, of course, is
traceable to the refusal or the inability of certain groups
to adjust themselves economically and socially relative
to residents of Japanese ancestry. For some years prior
to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, these protagonists of intolerance had been leveling unfounded accusations and innuendoes against Japanese fishing crews
operating off the coast of California. These fishermen
numbered about a thousand and most of them had long
resided in that state. It was claimed that they were
engaged not only in fishing but in espionage and other
illicit activities on behalf of the Japanese Government.
As war with Japan approached and finally became a
reality, these charges were repeated with increasing vigor.
Yet full investigations by appropriate authorities failed
to reveal any competent supporting evidence; not even
one Japanese fisherman was arrested for alleged espionage. Such baseless accusations can only be viewed as
an integral part of the long campaign to undermine the
reputation of persons of Japanese background and to discourage their residence in California. See McWilliams,
Prejudice (1944), ch. VII.
More specifically, these accusations were used to secure
the passage of discriminatory fishing legislation. But
such legislation was not immediately forthcoming. The
continued presence in California of the Japanese fishermen without the occurrence of any untoward incidents
on their part served for a time as adequate and living
refutation of the propaganda. Then came the evacuation of all persons of Japanese ancestry from the West
Coast. See Korematsu v. United States, supra. Once
evacuation was achieved, an intensive campaign was begun to prevent the return to California of the evacuees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

J., concurring.

334 U. S.

All of the old charges, including the ones relating to the
fishermen, were refurbished and augmented. This time
the Japanese were absent and were unable to provide
effective opposition. The winds of racial animosity blew
unabated.
During the height of this racial storm in 1943, numerous
anti-Japanese bills were considered by the California legislators. Several amendments to the Alien Land Law
were enacted. And § 990 of the Fish and Game Code
was altered to provide that "A commercial fishing license
may be issued to any person other than an alien Japanese." No pretense was made that this alteration was
in the interests of conservation. It was made at a time
when all alien Japanese were excluded from California,
with no immediate return indicated; thus the banning
of fishing licenses for them could have no early effect
upon the conservation of fish. Moreover, the period
during which this amendment was passed was one in
which both federal and state authorities were doing their
utmost to encourage greater food production for wartime
purposes. The main desire at this time was to increase
rather than to decrease the catch of fish. Certainly the
contemporaneous bulletins and reports of the Bureau of
Marine Fisheries of California did not indicate the existence of any conservation problem due to an excess number
of fishermen. See Thirty-Eighth Biennial Report (July
1, 1944), pp. 33-36; Fish Bulletin No. 58, for the year
1940; Fish Bulletin No. 59, for the years 1941 and 1942.
These circumstances only confirm the obvious fact that
the 1943 amendment to § 990 was intended to discourage
the return to California of Japanese aliens. By taking
away their commercial fishing rights, the lives of those
aliens who plied the fisherman's trade would be made
more difficult and unremunerative. And the non-Japanese fishermen would thereby be free from the compe-

TAKAHASHI v. FISH COMM'N.
410

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

tition afforded by these aliens. The equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, however, does not
permit a state to discriminate against resident aliens in
such a fashion, whether the purpose be to give effect to
racial animosity or to protect the competitive interests
of other residents.
The 1945 amendment to § 990 which is now before us
stands in no better position than the 1943 amendment.
This later alteration eliminated the reference to "alien
Japanese" and substituted therefor "a person ineligible
to citzenship." Adoption of this change also occurred
during a period when anti-Japanese agitation in California had reached one of its periodic peaks. The announcement of the end of the Japanese exclusion orders,
plus this Court's decision in Ex parte Endo, 323 U. S. 283,
made the return to California of many of the evacuees
a reasonable certainty. The prejudices, the antagonisms
and the hatreds were once again aroused, punctuated this
time by numerous acts of violence against the returning
Japanese Americans. Another wave of anti-Japanese
proposals marked the 1945 legislative session. It was in
this setting that the amendment to § 990 was proposed
and enacted in 1945.
It is of interest and significance that the amendment in
question was proposed by a legislative committee devoted to Japanese resettlement problems, not by a committee concerned with the conservation of fish. The
Senate Fact-Finding Committee. on Japanese Resettlement issued a report on May 1, 1945. This report dealt
with such matters as the Alien Land Law, the Japanese
language schools, dual citizenship and the Tule Lake riot.
And under the heading "Japanese Fishing Boats" (pp.
5-6) appeared this explanation of the proposed amendment to § 990:
792588 0-48-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

J., concurring.

334 U. S.

"The committee gave little consideration to the
problems of the use of fishing vessels on our coast
owned and operated by Japanese, since this matter
seems to have previously been covered by legislation.
The committee, however, feels that there is danger
of the present statute being declared unconstitutional, on the grounds of discrimination, since it is
directed against alien Japanese. It is believed
that this legal question can probably be eliminated by an amendment which has been proposed to the bill which would make it apply to any
alien who is ineligible to citizenship. The committee has introduced Senate Bill 413 to make this
change in the statute."
Not a word was said in this report regarding the need
for the conservation of fish or the necessity of limiting
the number of fishermen. The obvious thought behind
the amendment was to attempt to legalize the discrimination against Japanese alien fishermen by dropping the
specific reference to them.
The proposed revision was adopted. The trial court
below correctly described the situation as follows: "As it
was commonly known to the legislators of 1945 that Japanese were the only aliens ineligible to citizenship who
engaged in commercial fishing in ocean waters bordering
on California, and as the Court must take judicial notice
of the same fact, it becomes manifest that in enacting the
'present version of Section 990, the Legislature intended
thereby to eliminate alien Japanese from those entitled to
a commercial fishing license by means of description rather
than by name. To all intents and purposes and in effect
the provision in the 1943 and 1945 amendments are the
same, the thin veil used to conceal a purpose being too
transparent. Under each and both, alien Japanese are
denied a right to a license to catch fish on the high seas for

TAKAHASHI v. FISH COMM'N.
410

REED,

J., dissenting.

profit, and to bring them to shore for the purpose of selling
the same in a fresh state . . .this discrimination constitutes an unequal exaction and a greater burden upon the
persons of the class named than that imposed upon others
in the same calling and under the same conditions, and
amounts to prohibition. This discrimination, patently
hostile, is not based upon a reasonable ground of classification and, to that extent, the section is in violation of
Section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States .....
We should not blink at the fact that § 990, as now
written, is a discriminatory piece of legislation having no
relation whatever to any constitutionally cognizable interest of California. It was drawn against a background of
racial and economic tension. It is directed in spirit
and in effect solely against aliens of Japanese birth. It
denies them commercial fishing rights not because they
threaten the success of any conservation program, not
because their fishing activities constitute a clear and present danger to the welfare of California or of the nation,
but only because they are of Japanese stock, a stock which
has had the misfortune to arouse antagonism among certain powerful interests. We need but unbutton the seemingly innocent words of § 990 to discover beneath them the
very negation of all the ideals of the equal protection
clause. No more is necessary to warrant a reversal of the
judgment below.
MR. JUSTICE REED,

dissenting.

The reasons which lead me to conclude that the judgment of the Supreme Court of California should be
affirmed may be briefly stated. As fishing rights have
been treated traditionally as a natural resource, in the
absence of federal regulation, California as a sovereign
state has power to regulate the taking and handling of

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

fish in the waters bordering its shores.1 It is, I think,
one of the natural resources of the state that may be
preserved from exploitation by aliens.2 The ground for
this power in the absence of any exercise of federal authority is California's authority over its fisheries.
The right to fish is analogous to the right to own land,
a privilege which a state may deny to aliens as to land
within its borders. Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197.'
It is closely akin to the right to hunt, a privilege from
which a state may bar aliens, if reasonably deemed advantageous to its citizens.' A state's power has even been
1Bayside Fish Flour Co. v. Gentry, 297 U. S. 422, 425.
The statute, see note 3 of the Court's opinion for the text, seems
obviously to cast no burden on commerce.
A Washington statute similar to the one now before us was considered in Lubetich v. Pollock, 6 F. 2d 237.
2 Even citizens of other states have been excluded by a state from
such opportunities. McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 391 (planting
oyster beds). Fishing licenses discriminating between residents and
non-residents are permissible. Haavik v. Alaska Packers Assn., 263
U. S. 510.
3The right of an alien to own land is controlled by the law of the
state in which the land is located. Such was the rule of the common
law. Collingwood v. Pace, 1 Vent. 413, 86 Eng. Rep. 262. That has
long been the law of nations, 2 Vattel, Law of Nations (1883) c. 8,
§ 114, and has been accepted in this country. Chirac v. Chirac, 2
Wheat. 259; Levy v. M'Cartee, 6 Pet. 102, 113; Hauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S. 483; Blythe v. Hinckley, 180 U. S. 333, 341. Whether
the philosophical basis of that power, or the power over fish and
game, is a theory of ownership or trusteeship for its citizens or residents or conservation of natural resources or protection of its land
or coasts is not material. The right to control the ownership of land
rests in sovereign governments and, in the United States, it rests
with the individual states in the absence of federal action by treaty
or otherwise.
4
Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138. In expressing the conclusion of the Court, Mr. Justice Holmes phrased the rule as follows,
pp, 145-46: "It is to be remembered that the subject of this whole
discussion is wild game, which the State may preserve for its own
citizens if it pleases."

TAKAHASHI v. FISH COMM'N.
410

REED,

J., dissenting.

held to extend to the exclusion of aliens from the operation of pool and billiard halls when a city deemed them
not as well qualified as citizens for the conduct of a business thought to have harmful tendencies. Clarke v.
Deckebach, 274 U. S. 392.1
The Federal Government has not pursued a policy of
equal treatment of aliens and citizens. Citizens have
rights superior to those of aliens in the ownership of
land and in exploiting natural resources.' Perhaps Congress as a matter of immigration policy may require that
states open every door of opportunity in America to all
resident aliens, but until Congress so determines as to
fisheries, I do not feel that the judicial arm of the Government should require the states to admit all aliens to
this privilege.
Certainly Truax .v.Raich, 239 U. S. 33, upon which
the majority opinion appears to rely in holding that the
California statute denies equal protection in attempting
to classify aliens by putting restrictions on their right
to land fish, is not an authority for such a decision. The
5In that case a

unanimous Court, speaking through Mr. Justice

Stone, said, p. 396:
"The objections to the constitutionality of the ordinance are not
persuasive. Although the Fourteenth Amendment has been held
to prohibit plainly irrational discrimination against aliens,...

it

does not follow that alien race and allegiance may not bear in some
instances such a relation to a legitimate object of legislation as to
be made the basis of a permitted classification."
8 The United States limits the rights of aliens as compared with
citizens in land ownership in its territories, 8 U. S. C. §§ 71-86;
in disposition of mineral lands, 30 U. S. C. § 181; of public lands,
43 U. S. C. § 161; in engaging in coastwise trade, 46 U. S. C. §§ 11,
13; in operating aircraft, 49 U. S. C. §§ 176 (c), 521.
It was deemed necessary to limit the benefits of the Emergency
Relief Appropriation Act of 1938 to aliens who had "filed a declaration of intention to become an American citizen

809,813.

....

"

52 Stat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED, J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

power of a state to discriminate against aliens on public
works and the exploitation of natural resources was recognized in that case.! And, at the very time that it was
under consideration, this Court also had before it Heim
v. McCall, 239 U. S. 175.8 In that case, Heim attacked
the constitutionality of a New York statute which provided that "In the construction of public works by the
State or a municipality, or by persons contracting with
the state or such municipality, only citizens of the United
States shall be employed; and in all cases where laborers
are employed on any such public works, preference shall
be given citizens of the State of New York." ' A unanimous court held that the statute, which was attacked
on the ground that it denied aliens their rights under
the privileges and immunities, due process, and equal
protection clauses of the Constitution, was a constitutional exercise of state power as applied to the construction of New York City subways by private contractors.1"
7239 U. S. 33, 39-40: "The discrimination defined by the act does

not pertain to the regulation or distribution of the public domain,
or of the common property or resources of the people of the State,
the enjoyment of which may be limited to its citizens as against
*both aliens and the citizens of other States. . . . The case now
presented is not within these decisions, or within those relating to the
devolution of real property . .. ; and it should be added that the
act is not limited to persons who are engaged on public work or
receive the benefit of public moneys. The discrimination here involved is imposed upon the conduct of ordinary private enterprise."
8 Truax v. Raich, supra, was argued October 15, 1915, and decided
November 1, 1915; Heim v. McCall, supra, was argued October 12,
1915, and decided November 29, 1915.
9239 U. S.175, 176-77.
10 The problem of natural resources was not directly discussed in
the opinion. But it is clear that the Court was not unaware of the
relation of its decision to the natural resources cases. See 239 U. S.
175, 194. The fact that this case was before the Court at the same
time as Truax v. "Raich, probably explains the careful reservation
of the natural resources and public works problems in that case.
See 239 U. S.33, 39-40.

PHYLE v. DUFFY.
Syllabus.

410

The Constitution that permits the bar of aliens from
public works surely must permit their bar from state
fishing rights. A state has power to exclude from enjoyment of its natural resources those who are unwilling or
unable to become citizens.
If aliens, as I think -they can, may be excluded by a
state from fishing privileges, I see no reason why the
classification established by California excluding only
aliens ineligible to citizenship is prohibited by the Constitution. Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 220.
Whatever we may think of the wisdom of California's
statute, we should intervene only when we conclude the
state statute passes constitutional limits.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON joins in this dissent.

PHYLE v. DUFFY, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 655.

Argued April 20-21, 1948.-Decided June 7,1948.

Petitioner was convicted of murder, sentenced to death, and imprisoned pending execution. In compliance with a California statute
forbidding the execution of an insane person and prescribing a
procedure for obtaining a judicial determination of a prisoner's
sanity (to be initiated by the warden if "there is good reason to
believe" that he has become insane), petitioner was adjudged
insane and taken to a state hospital. Thereafter, without notice
or hearing, the medical superintendent of the hospital certified
that petitioner's reason had been restored; and he was returned
to prison and a new date was set for his execution. He instituted
a habeas corpus proceeding in the State Supreme Court; but that
court denied relief. Held: Since the judgment denying habeas
corpus may rest on the adequate non-federal ground that petitioner
had pursued the wrong state remedy, it is not appropriate for
this Court at this time to pass on the federal constitutional questions presented. Pp. 432-444.
(a) It appears that there is a state remedy by mandamus available to petitioner under which he can invoke judicial action to

