OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

or intended under the statute, 18 U. S. C. § 709a,' or
under the terms of the sentence as imposed.
The District Court, after full hearing, dismissed the
writ of habeas corpus and remanded petitioner to custody
to serve his sentence. We think this was a corre Jisposition of the matter. The Circuit Court of Appeals'
decision to the contrary is error.
Judgment reversed.

BRIGGS, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. PENNSYLVANIA
RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 530.

Argued March 30, 1948.-Decided May 24, 1948.

1. In a civil suit in a federal district court, the jury rendered a
verdict for plaintiff; but the court dismissed the complaint for
lack of jurisdiction. The circuit court of appeals reversed and
directed that judgment be entered on the verdict for plaintiff;
but its mandate made no provision for interest. Held: In entering
judgment tinder the mandate, the district court may not add
interest from the date of the verdict to the date of judgment.
Pp. 305-307.
2. The rule that an inferior court has no power or authority to
deviate from a mandate issued by an appellate court interdicts
allowance of interest not provided for in the mandate. P. 306.
164 F. 2d 21, affirmed.

In a suit under the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
the jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff but the dis-

trict court dismissed the complaint for lack of jurisdiction.
The circuit court of appeals reversed, 153 F. 2d 841, and

directed that judgment be entered on the verdict. The
district court entered judgment for the amount of the
verdict plus interest from the date thereof to the date
I The Act of June 29, 1932, c. 310, § 1, 47 Stat. 381.

BRIGGS v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
304

Opinion of the Court.

of judgment. The circuit court of appeals modified the
judgment to exclude the interest. 164 F. 2d 21. This
Court granted certiorari. 333 U. S. 836. Affirmed, p. 307.
Sol Gelb submitted on brief for petitioner.
William J. O'Brien, Jr. argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Louis J. Carruthers,Hugh B.
Cox and Arthur R. Douglass.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case first presents the question whether a plaintiff
recovering under the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
45 U. S. C. § 51, is entitled to have interest on the verdict
for the interval between its return and the entry of judgment, where the Circuit Court of Appeals' mandate which
authorized the judgment contains no direction to add
interest and is never amended to do so.
The jury returned a verdict of $42,500. The District
Court then granted a motion, as to which decision had
been reserved during the trial, to dismiss the complaint
for lack of jurisdiction, and the judgment entered was
therefore one of dismissal. However, the Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed, 153 F. 2d 841, and directed that
judgment be entered on the verdict for plaintiff. When
the District Court entered judgment, it added to the
verdict interest from the date thereof to the date of judgment. The mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals had
made no provision for interest. No motion to recall and
amend the mandate had been made and the term at which
.it was handed down had expired. Motion to resettle so
as to exclude the interest was denied by the District Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals has modified the judgment
to exclude the interest in question and to conform to its
mandate, 164 F. 2d 21, and the case is here on certiorari,
333 U. S. 836.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

In its earliest days this Court consistently held that
an inferior court has no power or authority to deviate
from the mandate issued by an appellate court. Himely
v. Rose, 5 Cranch 313; The Santa Maria, 10 Wheat. 431;
Boyce's Executors v. Grundy, 9 Pet. 275; Ex parte Sibbald
v. United States, 12 Pet. 488. The rule of these cases has
been uniformly followed in later days; see, for example,
In -re Washington & Georgetown R. Co., 140 U. S. 91;
Ex parte Union Steamboat Company, 178 U. S. 317;
Kansas City Southern R. Co. v. Guardian Trust Co., 281
U. S. 1. Chief Justice Marshall applied the rule to interdict allowance of interest not provided for in the mandate,
Himely v. Rose, 5 Cranch 313; Mr. Justice Story explained and affirmed the doctrine, The Santa Maria, 10
Wheat. 431; Boyce's Executors v. Grundy, 9 Pet. 275.
We do not see how it can be questioned at this time. It
is clear that the interest was in excess of the terms of
the mandate and hence was wrongly included in the
District Court's judgment and rightly stricken out by
the Circuit Court of Appeals. The latter court's mandate
made no provision for such interest and the trial court
had no power to enter judgment for an amount different
than directed. If any enlargement of that amount were
possible, it could be done only by amendment of the
mandate. But no move to do this was made during the
term at which it went down. While power, to act on
its mandate after the term expires survives to protect
the integrity of the court's own processes, Hazel-Atlas
Glass Co. v. Hartford Co., 322 U. S. 238, it has not been
held to survive for the convenience of litigants. Fairmont Creamery Co. v. Minnesota,275 U. S. 70.
The plaintiff has at no time moved to amend the mandate which is the basis of the judgment. That it made
no provision for interest was apparent on its face. Plaintiff accepted its advantages and brings her case to this
Court, not on the proposition that amendment of the

BRIGGS v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
304

RUTLEDGE,

307

J., dissenting.

mandate has been improperly refused, but on the ground
that the mandate should be disregarded. Such a position
cannot be sustained. Hence the question whether interest might, on proper application, have been allowed, is not
reached.1 In re Washington & Georgetown R. Co., 140
U. S.91.2

Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK,
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY join,

dissenting.
We granted certiorari to resolve a conflict between the
decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals, 164 F. 2d 21,
and one rendered by the like court for the Fifth Circuit
in Louisiana& Arkansas R. Co. v. Pratt,142 F. 2d 847.
In each case the jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff, but the trial court nevertheless gave judgment for
the defendant as a matter of law;1 upon appeal that
Louisiana & Arkansas R. Co. v. Pratt, 142 F. 2d 847,
1Compare
with Briggs v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 164 F. 2d 21.
2 "We do not consider the question as to whether interest was
allowable by law, or rule, or statute, on the original judgment of
the special term, or whether it would have been proper for the special
term, in rendering the judgment, or otherwise, to have allowed interest
upon it, or whether it would have been proper for the general term
to do so; but we render our decision solely upon the point that, as
neither the special term nor the general term allowed interest on
the judgment, and as this court awarded no interest in its judgment
of affirmance, all that the general term could do, after the mandate
of this court went down, was to enter a judgment carrying out the
mandate according to its terms, and simply affirming the prior judgment of the general term, and directing execution of the judgment
" 140
of the special term . . . with costs, and without interest ....
U. S. 91 at 97.
'In this case the complaint was dismissed on the ground that the
plaintiff administratrix lacked capacity to bring the action; in the
Pratt case the trial court found the verdict inconsistent with answers
given to special interrogatories, and therefore gave judgment for the
defendant.

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDJE,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

judgment was reversed; and the cause was remanded with
directions to enter judgment on the verdict. In both
cases the appellate courts' mandates were silent concerning interest, but the trial courts included in the judgments
interest from the date of the verdict, not merely from
the time when judgment was entered following receipt
of the appellate courts' mandates.! In the Pratt case
this action of the trial court was sustained as conforming
to the mandate; in this case the trial court's like action
was reversed as being in excess of and, to that extent,
contrary to the mandate.
The two cases thus present squarely conflicting decisions on two questions: (1) whether the appellate court's
mandate includes the interest provided by 28 U. S. C.
§ 811,1 although the mandate makes no explicit mention
of interest; (2) whether, if so, the interest allowed by
the section properly runs from the date of the verdict 4
In the Pratt case the District Court allowed interest not only
from the date of the verdict but also from the date of judicial demand. This was modified on appeal to allow interest only from the
date of verdict. 142 F. 2d 847.
3 The section is as follows: "Interest shall be allowed on all judgments in civil causes, recovered in a district court, and may be levied
by the marshal under process of execution issued thereon, in all cases
where, by the law of the State in which such court is held, interest
may be levied under process of execution on judgments recovered
in the courts of such State; and it shall be calculated from the date
of the judgment, at such/rate as is allowed by law on judgments
recovered in the courts of such State." Rev. Stat. § 966, 28 U. S. C.
2

§811.
4 Although § 811 requires calculation of interest "from the date of
the judgment," the claim is that, in circumstances like these, the
words "the judgment" should be taken to specify not the time of
entering judgment aftcr appeal and issuance of mandate following
reversal, but the time when judgment properly would have been
entered but for the delay caused by the defendant's resistance to the
plaintiff's rightful claim as established on appeal. Cf. Fed. Rules
Civ. Proc., Rule 58. Petitioner fixes this time as the date of the

BRIGGS v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
304

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

or only from the time of entering judgment after receipt
of the appellate court's mandate. Both questions are
necessarily involved on petitioner's presentation and
should now be decided.
This Court, however, declines to answer the second
question, because it determines the first in respondent's
favor, accepting, erroneously I think, the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals in this phase of the case.' That
court construed its mandate as not including interest.
This was on the basis that the mandate was silent concerning interest, mentioning expressly only the principal
sum awarded by the verdict. In such a case the court
said, "the District Court is without power to enter judgment for a different sum."' Hence, it- was held, the
mandate was violated when interest was added to that
sum. 164 F. 2d at 23. And even upon the assumption
that the mandate might have been amended to include
interest by timely application for that purpose, this could
not be done after expiration of the term at which the
judgment was rendered, as petitioner sought to have
done." Ibid.
verdict. It is not necessary now to consider whether, if petitioner's
broad contention were accepted, the proper date would be that of
the verdict or that on which the trial court concluded its consideration
of the case and entered the original judgment for the defendant.
5 The Circuit Court of Appeals not only rested upon its construction of its mandate and the view that it could not be altered after
the term, but also decided the question concerning petitioner's right
to interest under § 811 adversely to his claim that it begins to run
prior to the date of the trial court's entry of judgment after remand.
To what extent this ruling influenced the decision as to the mandate's
effect is not clear.
6Citing In re Washington & Georgetown R. Co., 140 U. S. 91;
Thornton v. Carter, 109 F. 2d 316. See text infra at note 11.
7 In the Pratt case the term of court at which the original mandate
of the Circuit Court of Appeals had been handed down had similarly
expired.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

It is this treatment of the court's mandate, now accepted by this Court and forming the basis for its disposition of the case without reaching the question certiorari was granted to review, from which I dissent. It
confuses settled lines of distinction between different statutes and of decisions relating to them. I think these were
correctly drawn and ought to be maintained. If that
were done, we would be forced to reach and decide the
question now avoided concerning the effect of § 811.
Ordinarily it is for the court issuing a mandate to
determine its scope and effect, and other courts are bound
by its determination. But this is not always so. If it
were true, for example, that the silence of a mandate or
a judgment regarding interest invariably precluded its
recovery, the Court's decision and that of the Circuit
Court of Appeals would be correct. But an explicit
provision for interest is not always necessary to its inclusion, whether in a judgment or a mandate. In some
instances interest attaches as a matter of law, even though
the mandate or judgment is wholly silent regarding it.
In others explicit mention is necessary to its inclusion.
Blair v. Durham, 139 F. 2d 260, and authorities cited.
Where the claim for interest rests upon statute, whether
the one or the other effect results depends upon the terms
and effect of the particular statute on which the claim
is founded. Because not all statutes are alike in this
respect, the terms and intent of each must be examined,
when put in question, to ascertain whether the interest
allowed attaches to the judgment or the mandate by
operation of law or only upon explicit judicial direction.
Usually this is resolved by determining whether the interest. allowed is to be given in the court's discretion or as
a matter of right. Blair v. Durham,supra.
As the Blair opinion points out, ordinarily there is no
occasion to mention statutory interest expressly, since it

BRIGGS v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
304

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

attaches as a legal incident from the statute allowing it.'
On the other hand, it has often been declared that interest
is not allowed on judgments affirmed by this Court or
the Circuit Courts of Appeals unless so-ordered expressly.,
The Blair opinion, however, further notes that all the
cases so declaring are founded upon another statute than
the one involved here, namely, 28 U. S. C. § 878.10 And,
it may be added, the decisions relied upon by this Court
and by the Circuit Court of Appeals in this phase of
the case presently before us involved either § 878 or the
allowance of other relief not based on t 811."
It becomes important therefore to ascertain whether
the two statutes, §§ 811 and 878, are alike in their effects
as requiring or not requiring explicit mention of the
interest provided for in order for it to be included in a
8 Massachusetts Benefit Assn. v. Miles, 137 U. S. 689.

9 See the cases cited in note 10.
10 139 F. 2d 260, 261. The authorities cited were In re Washington
& Georgetown R. Co., 140 U. S. 91; Boyce's Executors v. Grundy,
9 Pet. 275; De Witt v. United States, 298 F. 182; Green v. Chicago,
S. & C. R. Co., 49 F. 907; Hagerman v. Moran, 75 F. 97.
n None of the cases on which this Court bases its decision involves
§ 811. They involve either § 878 (Boyce's Executors v. Grundy, 9
Pet. 275; In re Washington & Georgetown R. Co., 140 U. S. 91.'
which the majority emphasize by quotation); the allowance of
interest in the absence of statute as, e. g., where goods are illegally
seized and detained (Himely v. Rose, 5 Cranch 313; The Santa Maria,
10 Wheat. 431); or the granting of relief, other than interest, beyond
that decreed in the mandatV (Ex parte Sibbald v. United States, 12
Pet. 488; Ex parte The Unton Steamboat Company, 178 U. S. 317;
Kansas City So. R. Co. v. Guardian Trust Co., 281 U. S. 1).
Of the cases cited by the Circuit Court of Appeals, see note 6,
In re Washington & Georgetown R. Co., supra, is a § 878 case, and
Thornton v. Carter, 109 F. 2d 316, aoes not turn on § 811.
Thus, none of the authorities relied on governs the question presented here, viz., whether under § 811 the mandate of the reviewing
court excluded interest and was violated hy its addition.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLED;E,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

judgment or mandate. The two sections are very different in their terms. Section 878 authorizes the federal
appellate courts to award damages for delay,'" and in
terms makes the award discretionary with the reviewing
court. Schell v. Cochran, 107 U. S. 625. It is in connection with such awards, as has been stated, that the
repeated decisions now applied to petitioner's claim,
grounded solely on § 811, have held that interest is to
be deemed denied unless explicitly mentioned in the
mandate.'3
On the other hand, § 811 is very different. Nothing
in its terms permits an implication that the award of
interest is to be made as a matter of judicial discretion.
The language is mandatory.'4 The section's obviously
discriminating use of words, emphasized by comparison
with that of § 878, gives the interest it encompasses as
a matter of right. United States v. Verdier, 164 U. S. 213.
This is so whether that interest begins to run as of one
date or another. Whatever interest the section allows
attaches as an incident flowing from the statute and is
dependent in no way upon judicial discretion or upon
judicial inadvertence in failing to mention it. This was
the effect *of the decisions in the Pratt and Blair cases,
as well as United States v. Verdier, supra.
The Court's decision ignores these vital differences in
the statutes, their terms and effects. Consequently it
misapplies the decisions relating to § 878 and other situThe section is as follows: "Where, upon a writ of error, judgment is affirmed in the Supreme Court or a circuit court of appeals,
the court shall adjudge to the r spondents in error just damages for
his delay, and single or double costs, at its discretion." Rev. Stat.
§ 1010, 28 U. S. C. § 878.
13 See the authorities cited in note 10; see also note 11.
14 "Interest shall be allowed on all judgments in civil causes, re12

covered in a district court, and may be levied . . ."; "it shall be
,calculated . . . ." (Emphasis added.) See note 3.

BRIGGS v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
304

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

ations where the relief sought was discretionary, to this
claim arising only under § 811. The same thing happened in the Circuit Court of Appeals. However, the
two sections differ so greatly in their terms, as bearing
on whether the mandate's failure to mention interest
excluded it, that there can be no justification for confusing
or identifying them in this respect. The decisions construing § 878 are neither controlling nor pertinent to that
problem when it arises under § 811.
Petitioner's only claim is under the latter section. He
seeks as of right interest given by § 811 and attaching
to the judgnlent entered in his favor regardless of the
mandate's omission to mention interest. This claim in
my opinion is well grounded, to whatever extent § 811
allows interest. To that extent interest attaches and was
meant to attach by operation of law, and regardless of
the mandate's specificity, to the judgment rendered for
the plaintiff. The extent to which the section gives
interest is, of course, a distinct question, depending in
this case on whether the section contemplates that the
interest shall begin to run at one date or another.
Since the Court does not decide that question, I reserve
decision upon it. But I dissent from the refusal to decide
it now. The question is of considerable importance for
the proper and uniform administration of the statute; it
is not entirely without difficulty; " and the uncertainty
15 Cf. note 4. The matter is somewhat complicated by the anomaly
which would result from a decision that, while § 878 provides for

allowance of interest as damages for delay when a decision is affirmed,
neither that section nor § 811 explicitly provides any such indemnity
when a judgment for the defendant is reversed with directions to enter
judgment for the plaintiff; and by the considerations, obviously relevant on the face of § 811, see note 3, relative to securing uniformity
in the allowance of interest as between the federal courts and courts
of the state in which the federal court sits. Cf. Massachusetts Benefit Assn. v. Miles, 137 U. S.'689; cf. also Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304

U.S. 64.
79258 0--48-25

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

as well as the conflict of decision should be ended. There
is no good reason for permitting their indefinite continuance, to the perplexity of courts and counsel, and to
an assured if unpredictable amount of injustice to
litigants.
PATERNO v, LYONS, COMMISSIONER OF
CORRECTION.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 583. Argued April 28, 1948.-Decided June 1, 1948.
Indicted in a New York state court for receiving stolen property,
petitioner was permitted to plead guilty to attempted grand larceny second degree, a lesser offense not charged in the indictment.
He failed to avail himself, within the time prescribed, of state
law remedies for challenging the validity -of the conviction under
state law. Later he was convicted for another offense and sentenced as a second offender. Thereafter he attacked the validity
of the first conviction under state and federal law. Upon review
here of a judgment denying relief, held:
1. The decision of the highest court of the State that acceptance
of the plea of guilty to the lesser offense did not deprive petitioner
of his right under the state constitution to be prosecuted for an
infamous crime only upon a grand jury indictment was binding
here. Pp. 318-319.
2. The remedies provided by state law for challenging the validity of the conviction under state law (viz., motion to withdraw
plea of guilty, motion in arrest of judgment, or direct appeal)
Were adequate from the standpoint of the due process of law
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, at least in the absence
of any showing that petitioner was without opportunity effectively
to take advantage of such remedies. P. 319.
3. In view of the relationship of the two offenses under the state
-statutes, the indictment charging only receiving stolen property
afforded petitioner reasonable notice and information of the lesser
offense to which he pleaded guilty; and he was not in this respect
denied due process of law. Pp. 319-322.
297 N. Y. 617, 75 N. E. 2d 630, affirmed.

