UNITED STATES v. NAT. CITY LINES.

573

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. NATIONAL CITY LINES,
INC.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 544.

Argued April 28, 1948.-Decided June 7,1948.

1. Where a civil proceeding against a corporation under the antitrust
laws is brought in any federal judicial district of those wherein
such a suit is authorized to be brought by § 12 of the Clayton
Act, the federal district court is without power to decline to exercise its jurisdiction by applying the doctrine of forum non conveniens. Pp. 574-597.
2. The legislative history of § 12 of the.Clayton Act clearly establishes
that Congress intended to leave no room for judicial discretion
to apply the doctrine. of forum non conveniens to deprive the
plaintiff of the choice of forum given by the.section. Pp. 582-588.

3. It being clear that the purpose of Congress was to confer upofi
the plaintiff in civil antitrust proceedings against corporations the
right of choice among the specified venues, considerations of policy
which might otherwise justify the exercise of judicial discretion in
the matter become irrelevant. Pp. 588-589.
4. The fact that, pursuant to Rule 21 (b) of the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure, a criminal prosecution under the antitrust laws
against the same corporate defendants has been transferred to
another district from that in which the civil proceeding was brought,
does not justify dismissal of the civil proceeding by applying the
doctrine of forum non conveniens. Pp. 593-596.
5. When Congress has vested courts with jurisdiction to hear and
determine causes and has given complaining litigants the right
of choice among them, inconsistent with the exercise of discretionary
judicial power to defeat the choice made, the doctrine of forum
non conveniens can have no effect. Pp. 596-597.
6. Whether a statute has conferred upon a plaintiff a right of choice
of venue is to be decided, upon consideration of all the relevant
materials, by whether the legislative purpose and the effect of
the language used to achieve it were to vest the power of choice
in the plaintiff or to confer power upon the courts to qualify his
selection. P. 597.
7 F. R. D. 456, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

The United States brought a civil proceeding against
corporate defendants to enjoin alleged violations of the
antitrust laws. The District Court dismissed the complaint upon the ground of forum non conveniens. 7
F. R. D. 456. A direct appeal was taken to this Court
under the Expediting Act. Reversed, p. 597.
Charles H. Weston argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were George T. Washington, Acting Solicitor General (for this case), Assistant
Attorney General Sonnett, Robert G. Seaks and Philip
Elman.
C. Frank Reavis argued the cause for appellees. With
him on the brief were Martin D. Jacobs, Horace G. Hitchcock, Oscar A. Trippet, Henry M. Hogan, N. J. Rosiello,
H. D. Emery, Rayburn L. Foster, R. B. F. Hummer,
Hubert T. Morrow, Marshall P. Madison, Eugene M.
Prince, Francis R. Kirkham and Everett A. Mathews.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In United States v. Scophony Corp., 333 U. S. 795, we
recently considered the meaning and effect of § 12 of the
Clayton Act,1 providing for venue and service of process in civil antitrust proceedings against private corporations. This case brings before us another phase of the
section's effect in like proceedings. The principal ques1 "SEc.

12. That any suit, action, or proceeding under the antitrust

laws against a corporation may be brought not ohly in the judicial
district whereof it is an inhabitant, but also in any district wherein
it may be found or transacts business; and all probess in such cases
may be served in the district of which it is an inhabitant, or wherever
it may be found." 38 Stat. 736, 15 U. S. C. § 22.

UNITED STATES v. NAT. CITY LINES.
573

575

Opinion of the Court.

tion, and the only one we find it necessary to consider,
is whether the choice of forums given to the plaintiff by
§ 12 is subject to qualification by judicial application of
the doctrine of forum non conveniens.
The suit was brought by the United States against nine
corporations 2 for alleged violation of §§ 1 and 2 of the
Sherman Act. 26 Stat. 209, 15 U. S. C. §§ 1, 2. The
basic charge is that the appellees conspired to acquire
control of local transportation companies in numerous
cities located in widely different parts of the United
States,' and to restrain and monopolize interstate commerce in motorbusses, petroleum supplies, tires and tubes
sold to those companies, contrary to the Act's prohi2

These, with the states of their incorporation and their principal
places of business, are as follows:
Principalplace of
State of inbusiness
corporation
Corporation
Delaware
Chicago
National City Lines, Inc.
"t
American City Lines, Inc.
Oakland, Calif.
Pacific City Lines, Inc.
Standard Oil Co. of CaliSan Francisco
fornia
"
California
Federal Engineering Corp.
Biartlesville, Okla.
Delaware
Phillips Petroleum Co.
Detroit, Mich.
General Motors Corp.
Firestone Tire & Rubber
Ohio
Akron, Ohio
Co.
New York
Delaware
Mack Manufacturing Corp.
3Forty-four cities in sixteen states are included. The states are
as widely scattered as California, Florida, Maryland, Michigan,
Nebraska, Texas and Washington. The larger local transportation
systems include those of Baltimore, St. Louis, Salt Lake City, Los
Angeles and Oakland. The largest concentrations of smaller systems
are in Illinois, with eleven cities; California with nine (excluding
Los Angeles); and Michigan with four. The local operating companies were not named as parties defendant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

bition's.4 Injunctive and other relief of an equitable
5
nature was sought.
The appellees filed various motions, including the one
involved in this appeal. It sought dismissal of the complaint on the ground that the District Court for the
Southern District of California was not a convenient forum for the trial. This motion was supported by a showing not only of inconvenience to the defendants of trial in
the California district, but also that the District Court for
the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division (Chicago), would be the most convenient forum for them.
The showing was by affidavits, executed by officers,
attorneys and employees of the corporate defendants.'
4 The appellee companies fall into two groups. The largest, which
may be called the supplier group, includes the six last named in
note 2 above. Except Federal, they are engaged in producing and
distributing the commodities purchased by the local operating companies, the sale of which is charged to be monopolized and restrained.
Federal is a wholly owned subsidiary of Standard, engaged in managing investments for Standard.
The other group, including the first three companies listed in note 2,
is collectively called City Lines. National is a holding company
with operations directed from Chicago. American and Pacific are its
subsidiaries. The three own, control or have substantial interests
in the operating companies.
The complaint charges that the supplier appellees furnish capital
to City Lines for acquiring control of the local operating systems,
upon the understanding that City Lines cause all requirements of
the local systems in busses, petroleum products, tires and tubes to
be purchased from the supplier appellees and no other sellers.
5The prayer of the complaint sought complete divestiture of the
supplier appellees' financial interests irr
City Lines; partial divestiture
of City Lines' interests in local transportation companies; voiding
of existing contracts between the supplier appellees and City Lines;
and an injunction against purchases from those suppliers by City
Lines or their operating companies, except in accordance with a
competitive bidding plan to be included in the decree.
6In highly attenuated summary the showing was that the transactions creating the core of the charged conspiracy took place chiefly

UNITED STATES v. NAT. CITY LINES.

577

Opinion of the Court.

573

Counteraffidavits7 were filed in opposition on behalf of
the Government.
After oral argument, the District Court filed findings
of fact and conclusions of law together with a written
opinion, substantially accepting appellees' showing and
sustaining the motion. 7 F. R. D. 456. Accordingly it
entered judgment dismissing the complaint, but without
prejudice to the institution of a similar suit against the
named defendants "in a more appropriate and convenient
forum." This decision is brought to us for review on
direct appeal pursuant to the statutes applicable in such
8

cases.

It is not disputed that the District Court has jurisdiction in the basic sense of power to hear and determine
the cause or that it has venue within the provisions of
§ 12.' Nor can it be questioned that any of the defendants can be brought personally within that court's jurisdiction by service of process made in accordance with
in or near Chicago; appellees' chief witnesses and documentary evidence are located there; their transportation to Los Angeles and
extended presence there will cause great hardship; no defendant
"resides" or has its principal office or place of business in the California district (cf. note 2); and two trials in distant cities, see text
infra at note 41, will greatly magnify the hardship. See 7 F. R. D.
456, 465.
7 The Government stresses that three of the five supplier defendants transact business and are "found," ef. note i, in the California
district; the .volume of sales allegedly restrained is much greater
on the Pacific Coast than elsewhere; substantial portions of the evidence, oral and documentary, will be produced from California, etc.
Cf. 7 F. R. D. 456, 465.
s32 Stat. 823, 36 Stat. 1167, 15 U. S. C. §29; 43 Stat. 938, 28
U. S. C. § 345.
11It is conceded that three of the defendants, Standard, General
Motors, and Firestone, transact business within the Southern District
of California. The others apparently were served either' pursuant
to the concluding clause of § 12 or pursuant to § 5 of the Sherman
Act. See note 10 infra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

the provisions of either § 12, or those of § 5 of the Sherman
Act.1" The only question presented concerning the
court's power is whether, having jurisdiction and venue
of the cause and personal jurisdiction of the defendants,
the court also was authorized to decline to exercise its
jurisdiction upon finding, without abuse of discretion,
that the forum was not a convenient one within the scope
of the non-statutory doctrine commonly, though not too
accurately, labeled forum non conveniens.
It would serve no useful purpose to review in detail
the reasoning or the authorities upon which the District
Court ruled the doctrine applicable in such cases as this,
or therefore the further groundings upon which it proceeded in holding the forum inconvenient. For the view
has prevailed without qualification during the life of § 12,
thirty-four years, that the choice of venues expressly
given to the plaintiff is not to be qualified by any power
of a court having venue under any of the section's alternatives to decline to exercise the jurisdiction conferred.
None of the decisions on which the District Court relied
suggested, much less decided, that such a power exists.
This therefore is a case of first impression, seeking departure from long-established practice. Moreover, the analogies drawn from other types of cases in which the
doctrine has been applied " cannot survive in the face of
the section's explicit terms and the patent intent of Congress in enacting it.
10"SEc 5. Whenever it shall appear to the court before which any
proceeding under section four of this act may be pending, that the
ends of justice require that other parties should be brought before the
court, the court may cause them to be summoned, whether they reside
in the district in which the court is held or not;, and subpoenas to
that end may be served in any district by the marshal thereof," 26
Stat. 210, 15 U.,S. C. § 5. Section 4 of the Sherman Act (i. e., "this
act") refers specifically to civil actions brought by the Government.
Cf. Eastman Co. v. Southern Photo Co., 273 U. S. 359, 374.
11See note 46 infra.

UNITED STATES v. NAT. CITY LINES.

579

Opinion of the Court.

573

In the Scophony case we gave attention to the history
of § 12, which as there related is as pertinent to the question now presented as it was to the issues then under
consideration." Reference to the Scophony opinion, Part
I, 333 U. S. at 802-810, will avoid the necessity for repeating the history here in extenso. But its present applicability will be accentuated by recalling that we reaffirmed the ruling in Eastman Co. v. Southern Photo Co.,
273 U. S.359, namely, that § 12 of the Clayton Act had
enlarged the venue provision of § 7 of the Sherman Act,
with the intent and effect to give the plaintiff the right
to bring antitrust proceedings not only in the districts
where the corporate defendant "resides or is found," as § 7
had authorized, but also "in any district wherein it ...

transacts business."

13

In the Eastman case, as the Scophony opinion emphasized, the Court had rejected the argument that the addition of "or transacts business" was no more than a redundant reformulation of "is found"; instead it gave the
added words broader and less technical meaning than "is
found" had acquired under prior decisions.'
This was
done, as the Eastman opinion stated, because accepting
the contrary view would have rendered the addition meaningless and defeated the plain remedial purpose of § 12.
273 U. S. at 373. That section, the Court held, supplemented "the remedial provision of the Anti-Trust Act
for the redress of injuries resulting from illegal restraints
upon interstate trade, by relieving the injured person from
the necessity of resorting for the redress of wrongs com12 In the Scophony case we were concerned, not as here with any
question of discretion to decline the exercise of jurisdiction, but in
presently pertinent part with the tests of venue prescribed by the
section and whether, on the facts presented, those tests had been
met, so as to establish venue in the district of suit.

13See

note 1.

See United States v. Scophony Corp., 333 U. S. 795, Part I
at 802-810.
14

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

mitted by a non-resident corporation, to a district, however distant, in which it resides or may be 'found'-of ten
an insuperable obstacle-and enabling him to institute
the suit in a district,frequently,that of his own residence,
in which, the corporationin fact transacts business, and
bring it before the court by the service of process in a
district in which it resides or may be 'found."" (Em.phasis added.) 273 U. S. at 373-374.
The Scophony opinion reaffirmed this view: "Thus, by
substituting practical, business conceptions for the previous hair-splitting legal technicalities encrusted upon
the 'found'-'present'-'carrying-on-business' sequence, the
Court yielded to and made effective Congress' remedial
purpose. Thereby it relieved persons injured through
corporate violations of the antitrust laws from the 'often
insuperable obstacle' of resorting to distant forums for
redress of wrongs done in the places of their business or
residence. A foreign corporation no longer could come
to a district, perpetrate there the injuries outlawed, and
then by retreating or even without retreating to its headquarters defeat or delay the retribution due." 333 U. S.
at 808.
These conclusions concerning the section's intent and
effect are altogether inconsistent with any idea that the
defendant corporation can defeat the plaintiff's choice of
venue as given, by asking for and securing dismissal of the
suit, either on the ground that the venue selected within
the statutory limits is inconvenient for the defendant or
that another authorized venue is more convenient for it.
No such discretionary power had been exercised by any
court during the twenty years of the Sherman Act's application prior to the enactment of § 12, under the narrower
range of choice afforded by § 7. None had been suggested, and uniform practice had established that the
plaintiff's choice was conclusive, as was true later under
§ 12 until the deviation in this case.

UNITED STATES v. NAT. CItY LINES.
573

581

Opinion of the Court.

When therefore Congress came to face the problem of
maing the nation's antitrust policy more effective
through the Clayton Act's provisions, that body was not
confronted with any problem of abuse by plaintiffs in
selecting venue for antitrust suits; nor was it concerned
with any question of providing means by which the defendants in such suits might defeat the plaintiff's choice
to serve their own convenience. Congress' concern was
quite the opposite. It was to provide broader and more
effective relief, both substantively and procedurally, for
persons injured by violations of its antitrust policy.15
Insofar as convenience in bringing suit and conducting
trial was involved, the purpose was to make these less
inconvenient for plaintiffs or, as was said in the Eastman
opinion, to remove the "often insuperable obstacle"
thrown in their way by the existing venue restrictions.
To have broadened the choice of venue for the reasons
which brought about that action, only to have it narrowed again by application of the vague and discretionary
power'" comprehended by forum non conveniens, would
have been incongruous, to say the least. In making
1"The

Clayton Act hardly can be regarded as a statute for the
relief of corporate defendants in antitrust proceedings from either
procedural or substantive abuses. See Levy, The Clayton LawAn Imperfect Supplement to the Sherman Law, 3 Va. L. Rev. 411.
16 "Wisely, it has not been attempted to catalogue the circumstances which will justify or require either grant or denial of remedy.
The doctrine leaves much to the discretion of the court to which
plaintiff resorts, and experience has not shown a judicial tendency
to renounce one's own jurisdiction so strong as to result in many
abuses.
"If the combination and weight of factors requisite to given results
are difficult to forecast or state, those to be considered are not difficult
to name. An interest to be considered, and the one likely to be
most pressed, is the private interest of the litigant. .

.

. The court

will weigh relative advantages and obstacles to fair trial."
Oil Corp. v. Gilbert, 330 U. S. 501, 508.

Gullf

OCTOBER TERM, i947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

the change Congress did not authorize plaintiffs to institute civil antitrust suits in the newly specified districts,
merely in order to have them transferred back for trial
to one of the districts comprehended by § 7. It intended
trial to take place in the district specified by the statute
and selected by the plaintiff.'
This conclusion is supported as strongly by the history
of the legislative proceedings relating to the enactment of
§ 12 as by the foregoing judicial constructions. Section
7 of the Sherman Act had limited venue, as we, have
noted, to districts in which the defendant "resides or is
found." As originally introduced in the House, two sections of the Clayton Act, §§ 4 (then § 5) and 12 (then
§ 10)," perpetuated those provisions.
During discussion on the floor, however, various Representatives demanded broader choice of venue for plaintiffs. The demand related to both sections, and the discussion went
17 The Eastman opinion xeferred to the disadvantages suffered by
plaintiffs under § 7 of the Sherman Act who were injured where they
r sided or conducted their business, only to be forced tR seek out
th wrongdoing company in a distant forum to secure venue and
se ice of process, and therefore also to transport witnesses and
incur other disadvantages in trial. 273 U. S. 359, 373-374. Likewise the legislative discussions hereinafter cited uniformly treat
the problem as one involving both instituting the suit and trying
it. There is no hint that it was contemplated the two phases of
the litigation might be separated and conducted in different places.
See, e. g., notes 31 and 32 infra.
18 Section 12 began as § 10, became § 11 in the Senate, and finally
§ 12 in conference. Similarly, § 4 began as § 5, changed first to
§3, and finally to §4. Section 4 provides for recovery of treble
damages in private antitrust proceedings and its venue provisions
appl., in terms only to such suits. Section 12 applies to "any suit,
acti( i, or proceeding under the antitrust laws against a corporation."
This literally is broad enough to include the suits comprehended
by §4.
19 The original wording of the two sections in respect to venue
was slightly different but the substance was identical, both following
the preexisting provisions of § 7 of the Sherman Act.

UNITED STATES v. NAT. CITY LINES.
573

583

Opinion of the Court.

forward now with reference to one, now the other, now
both.
The basic aim of the advocates of change was to give
the plaintiff the right to bring suit and have it tried in the
district where the defendant had committed violations of
the Act and inflicted the forbidden injuries.' At first
they were not much concerned with the exact formulation
of the language to accomplish this, several formulas being
proposed ffom time to time.2 ' But they were convinced
that restricting the choice of venue to districts in which
the defendant "resides or is found" was not adequate to
assure that the suit could be brought where the cause of
action arose, and therefore insisted on change in order to
22
assure that result.
E. g., Representative Dickinson urged that the language "be
extended sufficiently to reach every contingency, so that these concerns
may be sued in that jurisdiction where they commit the wrong, where
the acts complained of may be committed, where the officers, agents,
or employees, acting for their master corporation, may be found
setting aside the law, and where the witnesses are easily obtainable . . . ." 51 Cong. Rec. 9190. Later he stated that he wanted
to "give the widest liberty of bringing suits where the damage is done
and where the action arose." 51 Cong. Rec. 9417.
Representative Sumners spoke to the same effect: "Mr. Chairman,
I believe this matter of venue is one of the most important connected
with the whole subject of antitrust legislation. . . . The philosophy
of legislation with regard to this subject should give the venue at
the place wherein the cause of action arises." Id. 9467. See also
id. 9414, 9415, 9608.
21 "Why not at the end of the section, after the word 'found,'
add other words, such as 'doing business, or violating the provisions
of this law, or wherever it may do business or where its agents, officers,
or employees may be found,' or other appropriate language. A dozen
suggestions may be made in the way of amendment." Id. 9190. See
also id. 9414-9417, 9466, 9607, 9663, 9682.
22 "Mr. SCOTT. What is the gentleman's understanding of the word
'found'; what is its import as used in this section?
"Mr. DICKINSON. I understand that there is some decision by some
court that I am not very familiar with that may possibly cover
20

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

The committee sponsoring the bill had no objection
to this purpose; indeed its members expressly approved
it.23 But at first they opposed any amendment, because
they thought the object fully achieved by the words "is
found." 24 Over this difference the discussion went forthe very thought suggested by my proposed amendment. I do not
believe that it meets the situation, and if there be any doubt about
it, in order that the Government may prosecute successfully and
institute suits and actions and have trials the language ought to be
clear and definite, and so plain that he who runs may read, so
that there can not be two constructions." Id. 9415.
"Mr. CULLOP. May I suggest . . . that every suit which has arisen
under the Sherman antitrust law has been brought at the home of
the corporation itself, or at its principal place of business, and
therefore there was no occasion to construe this language, 'is found,'
which is ambiguous and uncertain. If you are to construe 'is found,'
you will have to construe that as the place of the residence of the
corporation, because it is not migratory. You can not get service
upon some person traveling throughout the country and hold your
jurisdiction throughout that territory.
"Mr. CARLIN. Why should not the suit be brought in the habitat
of the corporation? We have been successful so far in that matter.
"Mr. CULLOP. In this case for the very best reason, I think. The
gentleman from Virginia [Mr. CARLIN] now has disclosed the purpose
of this language, and that is why I am combating it, and for the
best of reasons, I think. I do not want to make a resident of California come to Trenton, N. J., to biing a suit for violation of this
law, but I want him to sue at home in the jurisdiction where the
cause of action arose." Id. 9416. See also id. 9466-9467, 9607-9608,
9663-9664.
23
E. g., Representative Floyd stated that the provisions were designed "to give the Government the widest possible scope in getting
service in these cases, and the provision is right as it is written and
ought not to be changed." Id. 9416.
24
"Mr. FLOYD. . . The very broadest language that can be used
in a statute of this kind conferring jurisdiction is to give the jurisdiction where the corporation resides or is found." Id. 9415. And
"I think the provisions relating to service properly drafted as they
appear in the bill, and that the proposed amendment and others
suggested in the debate would narrow the scope of the provisions
as drawn." Id. 9417. And see id. 9608.

UNITED STATES v. NAT. CITY LINES. 585
Opinion of the Court.

573

ward, as well as over various formulations of the proposed
addition. Some were broader than was necessary to
achieve the primary aim.25 Indeed some were so broad
that committee members thought their inclusion would
jeopardize passage of the entire bill.'
To avoid this result and to satisfy those who insisted
on amendment, the committee yielded and proposed a
substitute amendment for one of those offered from the
floor relating to § 4. The committee substitute added the
words "or has an agent" after "is found" in the original
committee version. 51 Cong. Rec. 9466. This amendment passed the House and later the Senate unchanged.
Id. 9467. Section 4 thus became law in its present form,
for the limited class of cases covered by its terms. Cf.
note 18.Since however the amendment affected only § 4, the
problem concerning § 12 remained unresolved. Suggestions therefore were made at once for amending § 12 to
bring it into conformity with § 4. Id. 9467, 9607. Although other proposals were again put forward, id. 9607,
the conforming amendment was adopted by the House.
Ibid.
After the bill passed the House, it was' referred to the
Senate Committee on the Judiciary. That committee
reported it out with § 12 altered by the substitution
of "or transacts business" in place of "or has an agent,"
25See,

e. g., Representative Cullop's suggestion to confer jurisdiction

on state courts without a right of removal to the federal courts. Id.
9662-9664.
26 In opposing the suggestion to confer jurisdiction on the state
courts, Representative Floyd argued, inter alia, that "any friend of
this legislation, as I am sure the gentleman fron Indiana [Representative Cullop] is, ought not to aid those who are fighting this
legislation-the trusts and the combines of this country-by loading
it down with questionable amendments that will tend to defeat
it and destroy it in the end." Id. 9663.
792588 0-48-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

but leaving the latter clause in § 4 untouched.27 The
Senate committee reports and the debates in that body
throw little light upon the reasons underlying the committee's alteration of § 12 and its failure to alter § 4
so as to make them uniform, except for the general statement that § 12 as reported "concerns the venue or the
place where suits to enforce the antitrust laws against corporations may be brought and liberalizes the Sherman law
to some extent upon this subject." 28 The bill finally
passed the Senate with § 12 substantially as it was reported by the Committee on the Judiciary, 29 and went to
conference in that form. In conference the Senate version of § 12 prevailed over that of the House, and the bill
was so enacted."
The short outcome was that Congress expanded the
venue provisions of the Sherman Act, § 7, in two ways,
viz: (1) by adding to "resides or is found," in § 4 of the
Clayton Act, the words "or has an agent"; (2) in § 12
by adding "or transacts business." Thus strict uniformity in the two sections' venue provisions was not achieved.
But whatever their differences may be, each addition was
designed to aid plaintiffs by giving them a wider choice
of venues, and thereby to secure a more effective, because
more convenient, enforcement of antitrust prohibitions.
Moreover the discussions in Congress, particularly in
the House, disclose no other thought than that the choice
27 In place of the House amendment to § 12 of "or has an agent,"
the Senate committee substituted this language: "or transacts any
business; and all process in such cases may be served in the district
of which it is an inhabitant, or wherever it may be found." Sen. Rep.
No. 698, 63d Cong., 2d Sess. 73.
28151 Cong. Rec. 14214. See id. 14596, 15943, 16048-16052.
2
9 An amendment providing for stockholder suits against officers

of a corporation violating the antitrust laws was added by the Senate
but deleted in conference. See the references cited in note 28.
30 Sen. Doc. No. 583, 63d Cong., 2d Sess. 9. Sen. Doc. No. 584, 63d
Cong., 2d Sess. 18.

UNITED STATES v. NAT. CITY LINES.
573

587

Opinion of the Court.

of forums was given as a matter of right, not as one
limited by judicial discretion. There was, in fact, common agreement upon this among both the advocates and
the opponents of amendment.'
No one suggested that
the courts would have discretionary power to decline to
exercise the jurisdiction conferred. But since it was universally agreed that the choice of venue, to whatever
extent it might be conferred, was to be given as a matter
of right, several of the broader amendments were opposed
and defeated as going too far.32
Congress therefore was not indifferent to possibilities
of abuse involved in the various proposals for change.
Exactly the opposite was true. For the broader proposals were not rejected because they gave the plaintiff
31 See notes 25, 26.

The following are examples of the discussion

on the plaintiff's right to choose: "Mr.

DICKINSON ....

I do not

ask to strike out any language of the committee, but simply to add
to it, to make clear and definite and certain so that any person and
any corporation may be sued not only where it. has its residence
as a corporation or individual, but that it can be sued wherever it is
found doing business and the cause of action may arise.
"Mr. STEPHENS of Texas ....
I thoroughly agree . . . ." 51
Cong. Rec. 9414.
"I will say to my friend from Wisconsin [Mr. Stafford] that we
are liberalizing the procedure in the courts in order to give the
individual who is damaged the right to get his damages anywhereanywhere you can catch the offender, as is suggested by a friend
sitting near by." The quoted language is'that of Representative
Webb. 51 Cong. Rec. 16274. See id. 9467, 9607; also note 32.
32 Mr. SCOTT. I could not conceive that anything would deprive
the plaintiff of his right to choose the place of trial if he so desired,
either in.the district .where found or where the corporation resides."
Id. 9417.
"Mr. Scor ....
The amendment enlarges the present interpretation of the word 'found' as applied to the corporate jurisdiction,
and permits suit to be brought, with absolute discretion on the part
of the plaintiff, in any district in which the defendant may have an
agent, without defining the character of that agent." (Emphasis
added.) Id. 9467.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

the choice. They were rejected because the choice given
*was too wide, giving plaintiffs the power to bring suit
and force trial in districts far removed from the places
where the company was incorporated, had its headquarters, or carried on its business. In adopting § 12
Congress was not willing to give plaintiffs free rein to
haul defendants hither and yon at their caprice. 51
Cong. Rec. 9466, 9467. But neither was it willing to allow
defendants to hamper or defeat effective enforcement by
claiming immunity to suit in the districts where by a
course of conduct they had violated the Act with the
resulting outlawed consequences. In framing § 12 to include those districts at the plaintiffs' election, Congress
thus had in mind not only their convenience but also
the defendant company's inconvenience, and fixed the
limits within which each could claim advantage in venue
and beyond which neither could seek it. Moreover, in
§ 12, though not in § 4, the right of choice conferred was
given designedly to the Government as well as to private
suitors.33
In the face of this history we cannot say that room
was left for judicial discretion to apply the doctrine of
forum non conveniens so as to deprive the plaintiff of
the choice given by the section. That result, as other
courts have concluded, would be utterly inconsistent with
the purpose of Congress in conferring the broader range
of choice. Tivoli Realty v. Interstate Circuit, 167 F. 2d
155; Fergusonv. Ford Motor Co., 77 F. Supp. 425.
In this view of Congress' action, numerous considerations of policy urged by the appellees as. supporting the
discretionary power's existence and applicability become
irrelevant. Congress' mandate regarding venue and the
33 Representative Floyd remarked that the committee "language
was used to make this section conform to the existing law and enable
him [the Attorney General] to have greater liberty in bringing these
suits." Id. 9415., And see note 23 supra.

UNITED STATES v. NAT. CITY LINES.
573

589

Opinion of the Court.

exercise of jurisdiction is binding upon the federal courts.
Const. Art. III, § 2. Our general power to supervise the
administration of justice in the federal courts, cf. McNabb
v. United States, 318 U. S.332, does not extend to disregarding a validly enacted and applicable statute or
permitting departure from it, even in such matters as
venue.
It is true that the appellees made a strong showing of
inconvenience, albeit by interested persons, when that
matter is considered on their presentation alone. On the
other hand, the Government advanced strong reasons,
apart from the question of power, for not applying the
doctrine.' But in the view we take of § 12, we need not
consider whether the appellees' showing on the facts sufficiently outweighed that of the Government to justify
dismissal. 5
Two important policy considerations were advanced by
the Government, however, which not only bear strongly
upon that question but affect the question of power,
if Congress had not concluded it. The first is that permitting the application of forum non conveniens to antitrust cases inevitably would lengthen litigation already
overextended in the time required for its final disposition,
and thus would violate Congress' declared policy of expediting this type of litigation."6
s4See notes 6 and 7.
35It should be noted, however, that "the mere balance of convenience" in favor of defendants would be insufficient to justify application of the doctrine of forum non conveniens. This has been true
since the earliest Scottish and English cases applying the doctrine,
although the test has been variously formulated. For example, dismissal has been authorized if suit is "vexatious and oppressive and
an abuse of the process of the Court," or "only brought to annoy the
defendant." -See Braucher, The Inconvenient Federal Forum, 60
Harv. L. Rev. 908,909-911. Cf. also note 16 qupra.
36 Congress has provided that the trial of these actions may, upon,
request of the Attorney General, "be given precedence over others

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

The argument has merit to support the conclusion we
have reached upon the statute. Antitrust suits, even with
all the expedition afforded them, are notoriously though
often perhaps unavoidably long drawn out. The more
complex and important cases seldom require less than
three to five years to conclude," except possibly where
consent decrees are entered. Often the time necessary
or taken is much longer. To inject into this overlengthened procedure -what would amount to an additional
preliminary trial and review upon the convenience of the
forum could not but add approximately another year
or longer to the time essential for disposing of the cases,
indeed for reaching the merits. 8 Although some instances of inconvenience to defendants will arise from the
absence of discretionary power, that will be unavoidably
true in almost any event. And it may well be doubted
and in every way expedited, and be assigned for hearing at the earliest
practicable day . . . ." 32 Stat. 823, 15 U. S. C. § 28. The policy
of expediting final decision of these cases is further implemented by
authorizing direct appeals to this Court. 32 Stat. 823, 15 U. S. C.
§ 29.
31See, e. g., Schine Theatres v. United States, 334 U. S.110; United
States v. Griffith, 334 U. S. 100, which were instituted in 1939 and
have recently been remanded for further proceedings in the trial
courts. And the Eastman case, 273 U. S.359, though begun in 1915,
was not decided by this Court until 1927.
3 In this case, although the proceedings have advanced without
unwarranted delay at any one stage, more than a year has been
consumed solely on the issue of forum non conveniens. The complaint was filed on April 10, 1947. Motions to dismiss, supported by
affidavits to show inconvenience, were filed in August and September.
The trial court made findings and entered judgment of dismissal on
October 15 and allowed an appeal on December 3. The Government
filed its statement as to jurisdiction in this Court on January 20, 1948;
we noted probable jurisdiction on February 9, heard oral argument on
April 28, and today we resolve the issue. But for the intervention of
the motions, the consequent dismissal and appeal, the case with appropriate expedition might now be well on the way to final decision on the
merits.

UNITED STATES v. NAT. CITY LINES.
573

591

Opinion of the Court.

that the sum total of inconvenience and injustice resulting
will be as great as would follow, for both private plaintiffs and the public, from allowing the inescapable delay
incident to the exercise of such a discretionary power.
For once the power were found to exist, it is more than
likely that injection of the issue would become a common
incident of antitrust suits, and create the disadvantage
of delay for all concerned.
This consideration is reinforced by another, namely, the
difficulty of applying the doctrine in cases such as this, in
which the violations charged are nationwide or nearly so
in scope and effect, and the defendants are numerous
companies widely scattered in the location of their places
of incorporation, principal offices, and places of carrying
on business and participating in the scheme. In such
a case dismissal in one authorized district cannot reinstate or transfer the cause to another. Nor can the
court, within the limits of the doctrine, specify the district in which the case shall be reinstituted and tried.
It can only terminate the pending proceeding, as was
done here, without prejudice to commencement of a like
suit "in a more appropriate or convenient forum," with
whatever consequences may follow from having to begin
all over again.
Further, when that is done, the result well may be in
some instances to have the action commenced again, only
to precipitate the same issue and consequent delay in
the second forum. Conceivably this could occur from
forum to forum in succession, depending upon the number
of corporations named as defendants and the variety,
proximity, and degree of concentration of the locations
of their principal offices, places of business, and the relative advantages of other available forums for the variously situated defendants. Accordingly, in an unknown
number of such cases the practical result well might
be to establish a merry-go-round of litigation upon the

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

issue, which could be used to defer indefinitely consideration of the merits. The very possibility of such a
tactic would greatly hamper the institution as well as
the conclusion of antitrust proceedings. Indeed, for cases
of this complex type, the uncertainty concerning the outcome of an effort to apply the doctrine might go far
toward defeating the Act's effective application to the
most serious and widespread offenses and offenders.39
Further, even if it is taken that the appellees' activities
constituting the core of the violations charged were as
fully concentrated in or near the Illinois district as appellees claim, such a concentration might or might not
exist in other like proceedings. And in the latter event
the problem of selecting the appropriate forum well might
become a highly uncertain and difficult one.'
1 In this case these possibilities have been discounted, largely
upon the basis that the appellees had joined in stipulating that all
regarded the Illinois forum "as the proper forum for the above action" and that, in case of dismissal in the California district and filing
of a like suit in the Illinois district, the defendants would not move
for dismissal of the new suit on the ground of forum non conveniens.
The stipulation perhaps would be effective in this case to avoid the
complexities of repeated motions if suit were reinstituted in Chicago,
but not if the Government should select any of the other venues open
to it under § 12.
In any event, the stipulation is wholly irrelevant to any question of
the general effect of the doctrine's applicability upon antitrust proceedings. For once that were established, no defendant or group of
defendants in subsequent cases would be bound, or perhaps likely,
to execute such a stipulation.
40 As the Government points out, in practically all of the more
complex types of antitrust proceedings, the principal defendants
are corporations doing a multistate business, and the combination or conspiracy charged seldom has a defined locus. In such
situations, it is generally true that, whatever the forum chosen by
the plaintiff, it will be inconvenient for some of the defendants and
often for most of them. When there is such diffusion of possible
venue, that fact of course would be basis for declining to apply the

UNITED STATES v. NAT. CITY LINES.
573

593

.Opinion of the Court.

The appellees also strongly urge two other considerations which deserve mention. One is that a criminal
prosecution against the appellees (together with seven
individuals, officers of some of them), pending in the California district simultaneously with this cause and growing
out of substantially the same transactions, had been transferred to th6 Illinois district shortly before the District
Court entered its judgment of dismissal.4' The transfer
was ordered pursuant to Rule 21 (b) of the Federal Rules
of Criminal Procedure. 4' That action was taken after
doctrine of forum non conveniens, even if applicable. It is also
reason for declining to accept the view that the doctrine was intended
to be applicable.
Thus, in this case, all but two of the appellees were incorporated
and hence "reside" in Delaware. None are incorporated in Illinois,
and only two have their principal places of business or headquarters.
in Chicago. The invariable practice for fifty-four years, first under
§ 7, then under § 12, has been that suit may be maintained and trial
had at the plaintiff's election where the corporation "resides" or
where it "is found." But if this suit had been brought in Delaware
or at any of the principal places of business except Chicago, under
the application of forum non conveniens made here the trial could
not have proceeded in any of those other places. Cf. Tivoli Realty
v. Interstate Circuit, 167 F. 2d 155. The statute, § 12, does not
require trial to be had where the agreement in conspiracy takes place.
Locus of coming to agreement is not the gist of the offenses
proscribed.
41 The indictment was returned on April 9, 1947; on August 14,
•1947, defendants' motion to transfer the cause was granted. The
civil complaint was filed on April 10, 1947, and dismissed on October
15,1947.
42 Rule 21 (b) provides: "OFFENSE COMMITTED IN Two OR MORE
DISTRICTS OR DIVISIONS. The Court upon motion of the defendant
shall transfer the proceeding as to him to another district or division,
if it appears from the indictment or information or from a bill of
particulars that the offense was committed in more than one district
or division and if the court is satisfied that in the interest of justice
the proceeding should be transferred to another district or division
in which the commission of the offense is charged." Cf. note 43 and

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

the District Court had made findings of fact and conclusions of law founded upon and substantially adopting
the appellees' showing, which was practically identical
with their showing in this case. Consequently, as the
cases now stand, the criminal cause is to be tried in the
Illinois district while this civil suit founded upon practically the same transactions and affecting the same
corporate defendants is to be tried in the California
district.
Great emphasis is placed upon this as an impelling
reason for holding forum non conveniens applicable here,
and then sustaining the order of dismissal under that doctrine and the District Court's findings. But, for the
reasons above stated, we think the matter has been
concluded by the terms and intent of § 12. Moreover,
it is at least doubtful whether the Government had a
right to appeal from the order of transfer in the criminal
case."1 In any event, the validity of that order is not
before us. We therefore express no opinion upon either
of those questions. But the fact that we cannot do so
goes far to nullify the effect of appellee's argument of
hardship arising from the transfer. For that argument
comes down, in the peculiar circumstances, to one that
because the District Court on appellees' application has
text. In addition to thd questions there reserved, we express no
opinion on whether Rule 21 (b) applies to criminal antitrust prosecutions.
The Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure became effective March
21,. 1946. It would be stretching very far the idea of utilizing legislative history, if criminal- rules adopted twenty-two years after a
civil statute was enacted were given any significance upon the meaning or effect of the statute.
43
The precise point apparently has not arisen since the adoption
of Rule 21 (b), but there would seem to be no statutory basis for
appeal from an order of this type. See 18 U. S. C. § 682. See also
Seme v. United States, 158 F. 2d 231,232.

UNITED STATES v. NAT. CITY LINES.
573

595

Opinion of the Court.

transferred the criminal cause by a dubiously reviewable order, perforce of that action it should also dismiss
this civil cause and we should sustain the dismissal.
In practical effect the outcome of accepting such an argument as ground for sustaining both the power and the
dismissal would be to make Rule 21 (b) controlling in
civil as well as criminal cases involving the same transactions'and parties, thus overriding § 12, and at the same
time depriving the plaintiff in the civil cause of anything
more than perfunctory review of the District Court's order
of dismissal. 4
Hardly can it be taken that Rule 21 (b) was intended
so to override the provisions of § 12, to confer power
on the District Courts to do so, or to nullify the plaintiff's right of appeal from an order depriving it of the
statutory privilege of choosing the venue. Yet these
would be the practical results, if the consideration that the
court has ordered transfer of the criminal case is to be
controlling or highly influential, -as it undoubtedly would
be in most cases, in applying the -doctrine of forum non
conveniens in the civil cause. If matters of policy were
material, these possible consequences would add force to
the view that the doctrine is not applicable.
Moreover, if the transfer should result in hardship to
the appellees," insofar as the hardship arises from that
44 All that defendants would have to do, in any practical sense,
in order to secure dismissal, would be to convince the District Court
that transfer of the criminal cause should be made, and then demonstrate the self-evident fact that trial of the two causes in different
districts would be inconvenient.
4 In view of our decision in this civil case, there would be nothing
to prevent appellees from making a motion under Rule 21 (b) of
the Criminal ]Rules to have the criminal cause retransferred to the
Southern District of California, if 'in the changed outlook arising
from this decision that should be their pleasure.
The Government argues further that as a practical matter there

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

cause it is one which was avoidable by them and will
be incurred as a result of their own action in applying
for it. That they have voluntarily incurred it is no good
reason for depriving the plaintiff of its statutory right
of choice under the terms and policy of § 12 in the entirely
distinct civil suit.
Finally, both appellees and the District Court have
placed much emphasis upon this Court's recent decisions
applying the doctrine of forum non convenien8 and in
some instances extending the scope .of its application."
Whatever may be the scope of its previous application or
of its appropriate extension, the doctrine is not a principle
of universal applicability, as those decisions uniformly
recognize. At least one invariable, limiting principle may
be stated. It is that whenever Congress has vested courts
with jurisdictioA to hear and determine causes and has
is little likelihood that appellees will be forced to defend both actions.
For its distinctly footnote value we quote from its brief:
"When the Government believes that there hls been a violation
of the Sherman Act, it spmetimes seeks corrective relief by way of
a civil suit filed after, or simultaneously with, the return of a criminal
indictment, but when. companion proceedings are thus instituted it
is only rarely that both are ultimately brought to trial. If it is
held on the present appeal that dismissal of the civil complaint was
erroneous, the Government will not seek to bring the criminal and
the civil cases to trial simultaneously and, in any eventj it is highly
unlikely that it will be found necessary to bring both cases to trial.
"If the Government obtains a decree in a civil suit, the defendants
in a related criminal case usually file pleas of nolo contendere. If the
criminal case is tried first and verdicts of guilty are returned, there
is nothing left for trial in the civil case except the question of relief
(Local 167 v. United States, 291 U. S. 293, 298-299), and the parties
are customarily able to reach an agreement on this question and
dispose of the civil case by the entry of a consent decree."
46 Gulf Oil Corp. v. Gilbert, 330 U. S. 501; Koster v. Lumbermens
Mutual Co., 330 U. S. 518. See also Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.
v. Kepner, 314,U. S. 44; Miles v. Illinois Central R. Co.,, 315 U. S.
698; Williams v. Green Bay & W. R. Co., 326 U. S. 549.

UNITED STATES v. NAT. CITY LINES.
573

597

JACKSON, J., concurring.

invested -complaining litigants with a right of choice
among them which is inconsistent with the exercise by
those courts of discretionary power to defeat the choice
so made, the doctrine can have no effect. Baltimore &
0. R. Co. v. Kepner, 314 U. S. 44; Miles v. Illinois Ventral
R. Co., 315 U. S. 698. The question whether such a right
has been given is usually the crux of the problem. It is
one not to be answered by such indecisive inquiries a
whether the venue or jurisdictional statute is labeled a
"special" or a "general" one. Nor is it to be determined
merely by the court's view that applicability of the doctrine would serve the end of justice in the particular
case. It is rather to be decided, upon consideration of
all the relevant materials, by whether the legislative purpose and the effect of the language used to achieve it
were to vest the power of choice in the plaintiff or toconfer power upon the courts to qualify his selection.
This is a case in which the pertinent factors make clear
.that the courts were given no such power. Accordingly
the judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

concurring.

I agree with the conclusion of the Court but arrive
at it by a shorter and different route.
We have just had occasion to review and to decide,
by a divided Court, cases involving the doctrine of forum
non conveniens. Gulf Oil Corp. v. Gilbert, 330 U. S. 501;
Koster v. Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co., 330 U. S.
518. We there held that, in cases where the plaintiff
was in court in an ordinary civil suit only by reason of
the venue statutes that apply generally, the court could
exercise discretion in dismissing complaints to prevent
imposition on its jurisdiction if the circumstances of the
particular case showed an abuse of the option vested in

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACKSON',

J., concurring.

334 U. S.

plaintiff by the general venue statutes. But we also
pointed out that, where the choice of forum was authorized by a special venue statute, this discretion to dismiss
would not be implied. The distinctions there made between general and special Venue statutes may have been
overly simple from the viewpoint of the dialectician.
But as working tools of everyday craftsmen they do serve
to point out a difference that I think governs here.
Congress made some rather unusual provisions as to
venue in antitrust cases. Had it stopped there, it might
have been permissible for the courts to devise their own
limitations to prevent abuse of their process. But Congress did not stop there. Not only once but three times
it has enacted almost identical provisions which check
any abuse or oppression from compelling defendants to
defend in places remote from their habitat. 15 U. S. C.
§ 5 (1890), 15 U. S. C. § 10 (1894), 15 U. S. C. § 25
(1914).
The scheme of the statutes, as I see it, is that the Attorney General may lay the venue in any district where
he may properly serve one or more of his defendants.
He may go ahead with his action against them, whether
he is allowed to bring in others or not. Before he can
bring in other parties than those properly served in the
district, i. e., those "inhabitant," "transacting business,"
or "found" there, it must be made to appear to the court
that the ends of justice require that they be brought
before the court, in which case they may be summoned
from any district.
Congress has here provided a practice by which any
defendant, who has not subjected himself to suit in the
district, may obtain the same protections which the forum
non conveniens doctrine would afford.
In this case, the defendants, who might be entitled
to urge the doctrine, bave not resisted or contested the

UNITED STATES v. NAT. CITY LINES.
573

FRANKFURTER,

599

J., dissenting.

order bringing them into the suit. It was by so doing
that they could have shown that the ends of justice would
not be served by such action. Instead, they desire to
submit to being brought in and then Use their position
to throw the whole case out. This, I think, cannot be
done.
The special provision Congress has made, both to establish venue and to protect against its abuse, whether
the exact equivalent of forum non conveniens or not,
seems to me to preclude its application by the courts to
this class of cases.
For this reason I concur in the result.
MR.JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting.

This is an equity suit for violation of §§ 1 and 2 of theSherman Law brought in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of California. The same defendants were indicted in the same court for the same
transactions under the criminal provisions of the Sherman
Law. That court transferred the criminal proceedings
from the Southern District of California to the District
Court for the Northern District of Illinois because it
was "in the interest of justice" to order the transfer. In
doing so, the court below was obedient to Rule 21 (b)
of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, formulated
by this Court and having the force of law. 327 U. S.
823 et seq. With convincing particularity the District
I "The court upon motion of the defendant shall transfer the proceeding as to him to another district or division, if it appears from
the indictment or information or from a bill of particulars that the
offefise wag committed in more than one district or division and if
the court is satisfied that in the interest of justice the proceeding
should be transferred to another district or division in which the
commission of the offense is charged."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

Court set forth its reasons for making this transfer.!
After the transfer of the criminal case, the court granted
the motion now before us, dismissing the equity suit "in
the interest of justice, just as the same facts in the companion criminal prosecution required its transfer to
another district." 7 F. R. D. 456, 465.
Is it not incongruous that that which "the interest
of justice" demanded in the criminal prosecution is beyond the power of a court in a civil suit against the same
defendants on the same transactions? I
Of course Congress may leave no choice to a court
to entertain a suit even though it is vexatious and oppressive for the plaintiff to choose the particular district in
which he pursues his claim. But such limitation upon
the power of courts to administer justice ought not to
be lightly drawn from language merely conferring jurisdiction. The manner in which jurisdictional provisions
are appropriately to be read is illustrated by our decision
in Massachusetts v. Missouri, 308 U. S. 1, where this
Court recognized "considerations of convenience, efficiency and justice" even when a State invoked the Court's
original jurisdiction in what was concededly a justiciable
controversy. 308 U. S. at 19. I do not find in the
2 "I do not question the motive of the Government in instituting

the prosecution in this district.
"But I am satisfied that a trial here would impose unnecessary hardships on the defendants and entail unjustifiable expense which it is
the object of the new rules of criminal procedure, and especially of

the' rule under discussion, to avoid. Altogether the facts spell out
the vexatiousness and oppressiveness which -the Supreme Coirt has
warned us to eschew in matters of this character." 7 F. R. D. 393,

402-403.
$Cf. L. Hand, J., in United States v. Aluminum Co. of America,
148 F. 2d 416, 429: "In United States v. Hutcheson, 312 U. S.219,
61 S.Ct. 463, 85 L. Ed. 788, a later statute in pari materia was considered to throw a cross light upon the Anti-trust Acts, illuminating
enough even to'override an earlier ruling of the court."

UNITED STATES v. NAT. CITY LINES.
573

FRANKFURTER,

601

J., dissenting.

scheme of the anti-trust acts and of their relevant legislative history the duty to exercise jurisdiction so imperative as to preclude judicial discretion in refusing to entertain a suit where "the interest of justice" commands it.
Defendants in an anti-trust suit may no doubt attempt
to resort to delaying tactics by motions claiming unfairness of a particular forum. Neither must we be indifferent to the potentialities of unfairness in giving the Government a wholly free hand in selecting its forum so long
as technical requirements of venue are met. See, e. g.,
The Railway Shopmen's Strike Case (United States v.
Railway Employees), 283 F. 479. All parties to a litigation tend to become partisans, and confidence in the
fair administration of justice had better be rested on
exacting standards in the quality of the federal judiciary.
Federal judges ought to be of a cAibre to be able to
thwart obstructive tactics by defendants and not be denied
all power to check attempted unfairness by a too zealous
Government.
I find nothing in the anti-trust acts comparable to the
considerations which led this Court to conclude that the
provisions of the Federal Employers' Liability Act were
designed to give railroad employees a privileged position
in bringing suits under that Act. See, especially, concurring opinion in Mile. v. Illinois Cent. R. Co., 315 U. S.
698, 705.
I am of opinion that the District Court had power to
entertain the motion on the basis of which it entered the
judgment.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON

792588 0-48-43

joins this dissent.

