OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

Further evidence, were any needed, that Congress accepted as its own this interpretation of the language used
in § 602 (h) (2) is supplied by the significant distinction
maintained in this reenactment between the mode of payment originally provided by § 602 (h) (2) and the refund
life income plan, viewed in the light of the House Committee Report on the bill. It is hardly conceivable-and
if conceivable, hardly explicable-that Congress meant
one thing by the language it used in § 602 (h) (2) when
enacting the original measure in 1940, and another, quite
different thing, when it reenacted that language in 1946.
In the light of the foregoing considerations, the validity
of Regulation 3450 is sustained and the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. JOHN J. FELIN & CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 17.

Argued May 7, 1947.-Reargued November 18-19, 1947.Decided June 14, 1948.

When prices of pork products (but not live hogs) were fixed under
the Emergency Price Control Act, the Government ordered from
a packer a quantity of four particular pork products for .var
purposes. The packer refused delivery at ceiling prices and the
products were seized by the Government. Under a statutory procedure, an administrative agency awarded compensation at ceiling
prices; this was refused; and the packer was paid half the amount
due at ceiling prices on account. In a suit by the packer for "just
compensation" under the Fifth Amendment, the Court of Claims
found as a fact that the replacement cost of the seized products
at the time and place of the taking was substantially in excess
of the ceiling prices and awarded judgment for the difference
between the amount paid and what it found to be the replacement
value of such products. The packer failed to prove that it had
suffered any actual loss on the particular products seized. On
appeal to this Court, held: Judgment reversed with directions to
enter judgment for the unpaid balance of the value of the products

UNITED STATES v. FELIN & CO.
624

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

at ceiling prices, with interest on the total value at ceiling prices
from the date of the taking to the dat6 of the final administrative
award. Pp. 625-642.
107 Ct. Cl. 155, 67 F. Supp. 1017, reversed.

The Court of Claims awarded a pork packer judgment
for the difference between the amount paid (based on
0. P. A. ceiling prices) for certain pork products seized
by the Government and their replacement value. 107
Ct. Cl. 155, 67 F. Supp. 1017. This Court granted certiorari. 330 U. S. 814. Reversed with directions, p. 642.
Assistant Solicitor General Washington argued the
cause for the United States. With him on the brief were
Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, Paul A. Sweeney
and Harry I. Rand.
Arthur L. Winn, Jr. argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Wilbur La Roe, Jr. and Frederick E. Brown.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER announced the judgment
of the Court and delivered an opinion in which THE CHIEF
JUSTICE

and MR.

JUSTICE BURTON

concurred.

This is a claim for just compensation, based on the
Fifth Amendment, by a slaughterer whose meat products
the Government requisitioned for war purposes. The
Court of Claims awarded damages above the maximum
prices fixed by the Office of Price Administration for such
products and measured by what that court deemed the
replacement cost of the requisitioned property. 107 Ct.
Cl. 155, 67 F. Supp. 1017. The implications of this ruling reach far, and so we brought the case here. 330 U. S.
81.4.
While the immediate facts of this controversy are few
and undisputed, they can be understood only in connection with the recognized facts in the meat industry. Of
these we must take judicial notice inasmuch as we must

626

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

334 U. S.

translate the idiom of the industry into vernacular English. Also, of course, we must consider the facts in the
context of the rather intricate system of meat price
regulation by 0. P. A.
The respondent was engaged in the business of packing
pork products in Philadelphia. It bought hogs in Chicago, St. Louis, and Indianapolis and transported them to
Philadelphia where they were slaughtered and converted
into various pork cuts and products. It sold these products to retail dealers in Philadelphia, and it had also
supplied pork products to Government agencies.
On January 30, 1942, the President approved the
Emergency Price Control Act. 56 Stat. 23, 50 U. S. C.
App. (Supp. V, 1946) § 901. Accordingly, the Price Administrator, by a series of regulations, established maximum prices for dressed hogs and wholesale pork cuts.
Revised Maximum Price Regulation No. 148, issued on
October 22, 1942, governed the pork cuts here involved.
7 Fed. Reg. 8609, 8948, 9005; 8 Fed. Reg. 544.
To meet the food needs entailed by the war, the President under the authority of the Second War Powers Act,
56 Stat. 176, 50 U. S. C. (Supp. V, 1946) § 633, created
the Food Distribution Administration, with the Secretary
of Agriculture as its head. E. 0. 9280, 7 Fed. Reg. 10179.
This Administration was given authority to assign food
priorities, to "allocate" food to governmental agencies and
for pri.vate account, and to assist in carrying out the program of the Lend-Lease Act of March 11, 1941, 55 Stat.
31. To carry out the task thus delegated by the President, the Food Distribution Administration issued to each
packer operating under federal inspection a priority order
-calling for delivery of a proportionate part of the total
quantity needed at the particular time. ' A packer's
In 1943 there were 308. hog slaughterers whose establishments
operated under federal inspection. Livestock, Meats, and Wool
Market Statistics and Related Data 1945, compiled by the Livestock

UNITED STATES v. FELIN & CO.
624

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

quota was based on the ratio of meat produced in his
plant to the total production in all federally inspected
plants.
In conformity with this system, the respondent, on February 2, 1943, was requested to deliver 225,000 pounds of
lard and pork products to the Federal Surplus Commodity
Corporation for delivery under the Lend-Lease program.
The respondent was advised that this order was to be filled
in preference to any other order or contract of lower priority, and at the applicable 0. P. A. ceiling prices. Insisting that it could no longer afford to sell to the Government at ceiling prices, respondent refused to make
delivery.
On March 1, 1943, the Food Distribution Administration, exercising powers not questioned, issued an order.
requisitioning the lard and pork products in controversy 2
On March 3, 1943, thle property was duly seized in respondent's Philadelphia packing house. On March 24,
1943, respondent filed its claim with the Administration
for "just compensation" for taking this property. Its
total claim was $55,525, of which $16,250 was for lard and
$39,275 for pork cuts. On May 7, 1943, the Administration, by way of preliminary determination of the just
compensation for the requisitioned property, fixed the
value of the lard at $15,543.78 and the pork cuts at
$25,112.50. These amounts were based on the 0. P. A.
Branch, Production and Marketing Administration, United States
Department of Agriculture, p. 31. In 1942 there had been only 218
hog slaughtering establishments under federal inspection, and in 1944
there were 322. Ibid.
2 The requisitioned property consisted of the following:
40,000 pounds Cured Regular Hams, 14 to 18 lb. range
40,000 pounds Cured Clear Bellies, 10 to 14 lb. range
15,000 pounds Cured Picnics, 6 to 10 lb. range
30,000 pounds Salted Fatbacks, 8 to 12 lb. range
100,000 pounds Refined Pure Lard, 1 lb. prints (30 lbs. to carton)

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

334 U. S.

ceiling prices applicable to these products. On May 22,
1943, the preliminary award was made final. Respondent accepted in full payment the award as to the lard;
it refused to accept the determination as to the pork cuts
and, in accordance with the statutory procedure in the
case of rejection of such an award, was paid half of it. On
June 24, 1943, respondent instituted this action in the
Court of Claims to recover the additional amount which
when added to the $12,556.25, the half of the Government's valuation for those cuts, would constitute "just
compensation" for what the Government had taken.
The Court of Claims referred the proceeding to a commissioner, who took evidence and reported to the court.
Upon the basis of his report and the underlying evidence,
the Court of Claims found as a fact that the replacement cost of the requisitioned pork cuts at the time and
place of the taking was $30,293, and concluded, as a matter of law, that such replacement cost and not the maximum ceiling price was the proper measure of damages for
the taking. We heard argument at the last Term, and
after due consideration deemed it appropriate to order
.reargument at this Term.?
3 After the case was taken under advisement, following reargument,
a matter was brought to our attention which calls for consideration,
however summary. We were advised that on March 23, 1943, the
respondent filed with the 0. P. A. an "Application for Adjustment of

Maximum Prices for Commodities or Services under Government
Contracts or Subcontracts," pursuant to Procedural Regulation No. 6,
7 Fed. Reg. 5087, and Supplementary Order No. 9, 7 Fed. Reg. 5444.
(See 7 Fed. Reg. 5088 for the form of the application.) The purpose
of these regulations was to afford opportunity for relief to sellers who
had made, or proposed to make, "contracts or subcontracts" with the
Goyernment. This application had lain dormant from the date of
its filing until December 13, 1947, when we were advised by counsel
for the Government that it was now in the files of the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, which is third in the chain of title from the
0. P. A., through the Office of Temporary Controls, charged with the
administration of these two regulations. On December 15, 1947,

UNITED STATES v. FELIN & CO.
624

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

629

J.

At the outset it is important to make clear what it is
we are called upon to decide. The conventional criterion
counsel for the respondent advised the R. F. C. that it withdrew the
application insofar as it pertained to the requisitioned commodities
in controversy here.
While the Government does not suggest that the dormancy of this
application renders present proceedings, if not moot, premature, such
apparently is the intimation. If the regulations in fact authorized
-one who is not a "contractor or subcontractor" inthe ordinary meaning of those terms to obtain special administrative relief apart from
the statutory scheme relating to requisitioned property, technical
issues would have to be faced which we need not particularize. Counsel for the Government advise us that a counsel for the R. F. C. has
now interpreted the regulations not only (1) as applicable to requisitioned commodities, but (2) as authorizing retroactive price adjustments for requisition transactions completed before readjustment is
sought. Not unnaturally, the Government states that the applicability of this procedure for readjustment "to requisitioned commodities
may not be readily apparent from its terms." While normally we
accept the construction placed upon a regulation by those charged
with its administration, we must reject a construction that is not
only as unnatural as what is now proposed but comes to us post
litem motam five years after the application. It should also be
pointed out that the construction now placed upon the regulations
is not made by the- administration that promulgated it but by the
second successor agency for liquidating what is left of this administration. With due regard for the respect we owe to administrative
rulings in their normal setting, it would require such a remaking of
the regulations as reason and fair dealing here reject. The provisions for readjustment of contracts relate to a transaction in which
the seller and the purchasing agency of the Government were in
agreement as to the contract price. The price was paid, subject to
the approval of the application for adjustment. If so approved,
the seller retained the purchase price; if disapproved, the seller had
to make a refund. See Armour & Co. v. Brown,'137 F. 2d 233, 240.
In the case of a requisitioned commodity, certainly prior to the filing
of an application, no amount is agreed upon, and no provision for
refund has been made. In short, we reject this belated and novel
construction and are of the opinion that the pendency of this moribund application before the R. F. C., now withdrawn by the respondent, was no bar to this suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

334 U. S.

for determining what is "just compensation" for private
property-taken for public use is what it would bring in
the free, open market. E. g., Olson v. United States, 292
U. S. 246, 255; Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v. United States,
265 U. S. 106, 123; L. Vogelstein & Co. v. United States,
262 U. S. 337, 340. But there must be a market to make
the criterion available. Here there was a market in
which the respondent could have sold the pork cuts, but
it was not a free and open market; it was controlled in
its vital feature, selling price, by the 0. P. A. It is this
fact that creates the problem of the case, assuming that
the case is not dogmatically disposed of by holding that
inasmuch as the maximum price is the only price which
respondent could legally have got for its goods it is just
compensation. We are not passing on the abstract question whether a lawfully established maximum price is
the proper measure of "just compensation" whenever
property is taken for public use. We are adjudicating
only the precise issues that emerge from this case.
The Second War Powers Act, 1942, under which respondent's property was authorized to be taken, restricted
compensation for the taking to that which the Fifth
Amendment enjoins. 56 Stat. 176, 181. In enforcing
this constitutional requirement "the question is what has
the owner lost, not what has the taker gained." Boston
Chamber of Commerce v. Boston, 217 U. S. 189, 195;
McGovern v. New York, 229 U. S. 363. Respondent's
sole claim is for the pecuniary equivalent of the property
taken. This is not a situation where consequential damages, in any appropriate sense of the term, are urged as
a necessary part of just compensation. Respondent does
not claim such damages on the theory that, in order
to protect its good will, it had to supply its regular
customers and that this compelled replacement of the
requisitioned pork products by the purchase, slaughter,

UNITED STATES v. FELIN & CO.
624

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

and processing of live hogs.' Cf. United States v. General Motors Corp., 323 U. S. 373, 382; United States v.
Petty Motor Co., 327 U. S, 372, 377-78; United States
ex rel. T. V. A. v. Powelson, 319 U. S. 266, 281-82.
Respondent claims that replacement cost is the proper
measure of the value of the property when requisitioned.
This action was brought to recover 'damages which the
respondent would suffer, so it maintains, if it accepted
the Government's offer of the applicable ceiling prices
in satisfaction of "just compensation." The burden
therefore rests on the respondent to prove the damages
it would suffer by not receiving more than the ceiling
prices. Marion & Rye Valley R. Co. v. United States,
270 U. S.280,285.
The Court of Claims found that the principal item in
the cost of processing respondent's products was what it
had to pay for live hogs; that, inasmuch as live hogs were
not then covered by price regulation, the Chicago market
quotations governed price in the packing industry; that
the Chicago average live hog price was $15.59 during
March 1943;' and that, on the basis of* this price, the
4If the respondent had sold the pork products in controversy here
to its regular customers, it would have done so at the applicable ceiling
prices. If the Government had then requisitioned the property from
these customers, there would have been no question that the ceiling
prices would have been the measure of just compensation.

5This was obviously not the cost of the hogs from which the pork
products requisitioned by the order of March 1, 1943, were processed.
The relevant hogs were purchased in some previous month and at a
lower cost. The Chicago average was $15.35 in February and $14.78
in January, 1943, and $14.01 in December and $13:96 in November,
1942. Livestock, Meats, and Wool Market Statistics and Related
Data 1945, compiled by the Livestock Branch, Production and
Marketing Administration, United States Department'of Agriculture,
p. 54. Moreover, these were the average prices for average weights
of hogs. Ibid. T.e Government took specific pork products which

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

.J.

334 U. S.

replacement cost for the requisitioned property was
$30,293. We are of opinion that in reaching this conclusion the court below failed to take into account decisive
factors for the proper disposition of the action brought
by the respondent.
We are dealing with a claim for damages arising out
of a transaction pertaining to a particular industry, and
the transaction cannot be torn from the context of that
industry. It is practically a postulate of the slaughtering
industry that replacement cost does not afford a relevant
basis for determining the true value of the industry's
products. "Manufacturing operations in the meat packing industry do not consist of assembling raw materials
for the- purpose of obtaining one finished product, but
rather of separating or breaking down raw material,
(cattle, etc.) into many parts, one of which (dressed
carcass) is the major product, and the other parts of
which are further processed into numerous byproducts."
Kingan & Co. v. Bowles, 144 F. 2d 253, 254. In consequence, cost in the industry generally is like a fagot that
cannot be broken up into simple, isolated pieces. See
Greer, Packinghouse Accounting (Prepared by the Committee on Accounting of the Institute of American Meat
Packers), passim. "The accounting procedure in the hog
business is even more complicated than that of the cattle,
calf, or sheep business, because the operations involve
a greater breaking up of the dressed carcass and more
numerous processes extending over considerable periods
of time." Id. at 33-34. The problem is one of "joint
cost" in a business which "produces no, single major
product," id. at 213, with the result that no accountant
has thus far "been able to devise a method yielding
were processed from hogs of a definite weight for which the respondent paid specific prices in the Chicago, St. Louis, or Indianapolis
markets.

UNITED STATES v. FELIN & CO.
624

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

by-product or joint-cost figures which does not embody
a dominance of arbitrariness and guesswork." Hamilton,
Cost as a Standard for Price, 4 Law and Contemp. Prob.
321, 328; cf. Greenbaum, The Basis of Property Shall
Be the Cost of Such Property: How is Cost Defined?,
3 Tax L. Rev. 351, 356-59.
If, as suggested in argument, a hog were nothing but
an articulated pork chop, and the processing of edible
and inedible by-products were not characteristic of the
industry, the price of a live hog might well represent the
collective cost of the derivative pork cuts. The pork
chop, however, is but one of the many edible hog products.
According to an estimate about the time of the requisitioning of these pork cuts, there were more than 200 pork
items (exclusive of sausage products) in the market.
See Supplementary Statement of Considerations for Revised Regulation No. 148, Pike and Fischer, 3 OPA Food
Desk Book 46,151. "Most pork products," the Administrator found, "are consumed in a cured or processed
state. Fresh pork products, such as pork chops and fresh
ham, represent not over 20 per cent of the vast quantity
of pork which moves by rail. The remaining 80 per cent
reaches the consumer in a wide variety of processed forms,
including dried, dry cured, sweet pickled, smoked, cooked,
baked, and canned." Id. att 46,141. It deserves noting
that the requisitioned products in controversy included
cured regular hams, cured clear bellies, cured picnics, and
salted fatbacks.
The petitioner was also engaged in by-product processing,6 for the Government took from him 100,000 pounds
6 There are "numerous by-products," and the computation of the
values for "such by-products as casings, grease, fertilizer, and hog
hair, is rather complex." Greer, Packinghouse Accounting (Prepared
by the Committee on Accounting of the Institute of American Meat
Packers) (1929) at 213 and 219, respectively; see, generally, Clemen,
By-Products in the Packing Industry (1929); Moulton and Lewis,
792588 0-48-45

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

334 U. S.

of refined pure lard. For the value of the lard the respondent accepted the administrative award." Admittedly, part of the cost of the live hog must be charged to
by-products. However, any method of apportioning the
total cost to the by-products is highly speculative.8
Since so much speculative approximation and guesswork entered into the determination of cost, selling price,
and profit, the industry, naturally enough, was in almost
continuous controversy with the Price Administrator
about them. The respondent was party to these controversies. On July 17, 1942, it filed a protest against Maximum Price Regulation No. 148 which was consolidated
Meat through the Microscope (rev. ed. 1940); Readings on By-Products of the Meat Packing Industry, collected by the Institute of
Meat Packing, University of Chicago (1941); Rhoades, Merchandising Packinghouse Products, Institute of Meat Packing, University of
Chicago (1929); Tolman, Packing-House Industries (1922).
7 Since, as we hold, the value of the individual products can only be
determined by proportionate allocation from the over-all operations,
it seems to us that respondent's acceptance of the award as to the
lard was hardly consistent with its rejection of the award as to the
other pork products.
8 "On much of the material transferred [from one of the slaughterer's departmental accounts to another], such as blood, bones,
tankage, glue stock, etc., there is no ascertainable outside market,
and the packers must perforce place quite arbitrary valuations on
this material having no probable relation to either cost or market.
Again certain products are in the green stage when transferred, and
an outside market only obtains for the finished stage, with the result
that arbitrary deductions must be made from the finished market,
estimated to establish a nonexistent 'green' market. The certification of internal transfer prices presents, accordingly, an almost
interminable problem to any outside reviewing body." Report of the
Federal Trade Commission on the Meat-Packing Industry (1920),
Part V, 56. The industry's position as to the utilization of such cost
all6 cations and the Price Administrator's objections thereto" are quoted
fully and discussed in Armour & Co. v. Bowles, 148 F. 2d 529,
535-39.

UNITED STATES v. FELIN & CO.
624

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER, J.

with the protest of 115 other pork slaughterers against
this regulation. On the basis of calculations as to the
cut-out value or replacement cost of various pork cuts,
the slaughterers contended that the regulation did not
allow them sufficient operating margin over the cost of
live hogs. In rejecting the protest, on April 23, 1943,
the Administrator made this ruling: "The interdependence of all phases of the operations of packing establishments makes precise evaluation of the relationship between prices on dressed and processed meats and live hog
prices impossible except in terms of the over-all financial
position of the industry." In the 'Matter of Rapides
Packing Co., Pike and Fischer, 1 OPA Opinions and Decisions 243. The respondent, on March 8, 1943, had also
protested, again on the basis of the cost of live hogs,
against the revision of the regulation. This protest was
consolidated with those of 15 other pork slaughterers and,
substantially on the ground taken in the Rapides Packing
Co. case, this second protest was likewise rejected by the
Administrator. In the Matter of Greenwood Packing
Plant, Pike and Fischer, 1 OPA Opinions and Decisions
296, 299.
Review by the Emergency Court of Appeals was not
sought,' although the first denial of respondent's claim for
the replacement cost of pork cuts, based on live hog
prices, came shortly after the Government's requisitioning
of the products as to which he now makes the same contention. It is noteworthy that the pork price margins
were almost the only meat price margins which were not
challenged before the Emergency Court of Appeals in
9 It is also significant that none of the other 130 protestants sought
review in the Emergency Court of Appeals. Cf., e. g., Kingan & Co.
v. Bowles, 144 F. 2d 253, and Armour & Co. v. Bowles, 148 F. 2d 529,
for that court's views on replacement cost as a basis for the deter-

mination of value.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

334 U. S.

what has been called "the battle of the meat regulations."
See Hyman and Nathanson, JudicialReview of Price Control: The Battle of the Meat Regulations, 42 Ill. L. Rev.
584.
The considerations which underlay the Administrator's
meat price determinations are most pertinent to the solution of our immediate problem. The result of his analysis
was that the profit-and-loss data on a slaughterer's entire
operations were the only dependable figures from which
the fairness of meat prices could be deduced. The Administrator pointed out that the industry, on the basis
of its accounting figures, had historically lost money on
its meat sales. ° Since, however, by taking the by-product
sales into full account its operations as a whole were
highly profitable, these meat sale losses were "more in
the nature of bookkeeping losses which failed to take fully
into account the integrated nature of the industry."
These views were approvingly quoted by the Emergency
Court of Appeals in Armour & Co. v. Bowles, 148 F. 2d
529, 535.
In both of the consolidated proceedings to which the
respondent was a party, the Administrator explicitly requested to be furnished with the industry's profit-andloss data. In the earlier proceeding, no proof of loss was
filed by any of the protestants. In the Matter of Rapides
is a notable fact, that according to the present method of
departmental accounting, the packers are in the habit of showing
low profits or even positive losses in the carcass-meat departments,
while at thessame time exhibiting large profits in the by-products or
'specialty' departments, the chief reason for this somewhat extraordinary state of affairs being found in the valuations placed upon
transfers." Report of the Federal Trade Commission on the MeatPacking Industry (1920), Part V, 56. While a great deal of time
has passed since this 1920 report, the Price Administrator reached
the same conclusions in 1943, and the Emergency Court of Appeals
quoted the report more fully in 1945. See Armour & Co. v. Bowles,
148 F. 2d at 537.
10,"It

UNITED STATES v. FELIN & CO.
624

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER, J.

Packing Co., supra. In the second proceeding the Administrator made this finding:
"The three Protestants who submitted further evidence did not even thus sustain their claims of individual hardship. One of them showed a net profit of
$60,492.44 for the five months period ending March
27, 1942; another a net profit of $6,838.00 for the
three months period ending April 1, 1943, and the
third failed to submit a profit and loss statement
and balance sheet although specifically requested to
do so." In the Matter of Greenwood Packing Plant,
supra, at,297.
Not merely does the industry generally seem to have
prospered under price control," but so did the respond" See War Profits Study No. 14, Office .of Research, Financial
Analysis Branch, Office of Price Administration, Office of Temporary
Controls (1947) pp. 17, 45-47, 73-75. This is a study of the profits
of 520 food processors, but the foregoing references were to the
separate tabulations concerning the 79 meat packers included in the
study. The financial data was compiled from Moody's Industrials,
Standard & Poor's Corporation Records, and the. OPA Financial
Reports submitted by the packers. Id. at 19. Of the total 79 meat
packers, 54 are processing slaughterers, 10 non-processing slaughterers,
and 15 non-slaughterers. The comparison between the 1943 operations and the base period (1936-39 average) operations shows for
the 54 processing slaughterers: Net sales: 1943-$4,575,528,000 (after
renegotiation refunds)/base period-$2,382,211,000; Profits before
income taxes: 1943-$125,463,000 (after renegotiation refunds)/base
period-24,415,000; Profits after taxes: 1943-$50,402,000 (after
renegotiation refunds)/base period-19,255,000; Return on sales:
1943-2.7%/base period-1.0%; Return on net worth: 1943-19.5%/
base period-4.1%; Return on invested capital: 1943-16.5%/base
period-4.1%. Id. at 45, 47. For the 10 non-processing slaughterers,
the comparison shows: Net sales: 1943-$62,098,000/base period-$29,927,000; Profits before income taxes: 1943-$1,027,000/base
period-$184,000; Profits after taxes: 1943-$390,000/base period$147,000; Return on sales: 1943-1.7%/base period-.6%; Return
on net worth: 1943-28.0%/base period-6.3%; Return on invested
capital: '1943-25.5%/base period-5.9%. Ibid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

334 U. S.

ent 12 despfte the fact that throughout the period in controversy it continued to buy live hogs at prevailing prices
and to sell pork products derived from them at the authorized ceiling prices, even when this meant selling its pork
products below the price that the Court of Claims found
to be their replacement cost value."
Most pertinent, therefore, are the pronouncements of
the packing industry made before these matters became
embroiled in price-fixing litigation. "The cost of a
dressed hog carcass, or of a lot of dressed hog carcasses,
may be determined quite satisfactorily; but when a carcass is cut up into its various merchantable parts, all
record of cost is lost, as it is impossible to determine the
cost of any of these cuts." Greer, Packinghouse Accounting (Prepared by the Committee on Accounting of
12 Respondent's income account for the year ending December 31,
1943, shows:

"Net sales ............................ $14, 225,056
Cost of sales ..........................
Selling, etc., exp .......................
Operating profit .......................
Other income .........................
Total income ..........................
M isc. deductions .......................
Income taxes ..........................
Net income ...........................
Earn., pfd. share ......................
Earn., com. share ......................

12,950, 785
869, 770
404, 500
18, 717
423,217
13,229
176, 619
233,369
$40.21
17.97""

See Moody's Manual of Investments, American and Foreign, Industrial Securities, 1944, p. 647. The 1943 net income figure of $233,369
compared favorably with preceding years: 1942-$73,292; 1941$150,069; 1940-$148,164; and 1939-d$76,936.
13 The court below found that in order to protect its good will and
keep its organization intact, "Throughout the period mentioned [prior
to and after the March 1943 requisition], plaintiff [respondent]
continued to buy live hogs at prevailing prices and to sell pork products derived from them at the ceiling prices authorized by regulations
of the Office of Price Administration, even when the cost of live
hogs was greater than the wholesale prices of the products obtained
from them." 67 F. Supp. at 1022.

UNITED STATES v. FELIN & CO.
624

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

the Institute of American Meat Packers), p. 246, and
also pp. 43, 58, 61-62. Since the "results for the hog
business as a whole can be found only by adding the
profits or losses for all merchandising departments," id.
at 218, the only accurate formula for costs in hog slaughtering is a profit-and-loss statement for the entire operations. Id. at 43-44.
It is as old as the common law that an allegation purporting to be one of fact but contradicted by common
knowledge is not confessed by a demurrer. 4 Of course,
findings of fact are binding on this Court, but if this Court
had to treat as the starting point for the determination
of constitutional issues a spurious finding of "fact" contradicted by an adjudicated finding between the very
parties to the instant controversy, constitutional adjudication would become a verbal game.
There are facts and facts, even in Court of Claims' litigation. It is the function of the Court of Claims to make
findings. But when a judgment based on such findings
is here brought in question it is the function of this Court
to ascertain the meaning of the findings in order to determine their legal significance. The judgment of the court
below that "replacement cost" is the proper measure of
just compensation and the mode by which it reached the
amount of that cost are inescapably enmeshed in considerations that are clearly familiar issues of law and particularly of constitutional law. Where the conclusion is
a "composite of fact and law," Cedar Rapids Gas Light
14 "If one enters my close, and with an iron sledge and bar breaks
and displaces the stones on the land, being my chattels, and I request
him to desist, and he refuses, and threatens me if I shall approach
him; and upon this I, to prevent him from doing more damage to the

stones, not daring to approach him, throw some stones at him molliter
et. molli manu, and they fall upon him molliter, still this is not a good
justification, for the judges say that one cannot throw stones molliter,
although it were confessed by a demurrer .

. . ."

Cole v. Maunder,2

Roll. Abr..548 (K. B. 1635) (as translated from the Norman French
in Ames, Cases on Pleading (1875) 2).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

334 U. S.

Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 223 U. S. 655, 668, this Court may
certainly hold that as a matter of law the findings are
erroneous. See, e. g., Washington ex rel. Oregon R. & N.
Co. v. Fairchild, 224 U. S. 510, 528. Even when this
Court reviews State court judgments involving constitutional issues it "must review independently both the legal

issues and those factual matters with which they are commingled." See Oyama v. California, 332 U. S. 633, 636
(and the authorities therein cited). Similarly, findings
concurred in by two courts do not control the decision
here where "facts and their constitutional significance are
too closely connected" and "the standards and the ultimate conclusion involve questions of law inseparable
from the particular facts to which they are applied."
United States v. Appalachian Electric Power Co., 311
U. S. 377, 404. Even where the. parties to the litigation have stipulated as to the "facts," this Court will
disregard the stipulation, accepted and applied by the
courts below, if the stipulation obviously forecloses real
questions of law. See, e. g., Swift & Co. v. Hocking
Valley R. Co., 243 U. S. 281.
The prior proceedings between the same parties, as to
which we would be blind not to take judicial notice, as
well as the unquestioned facts pertaining to .the meat
industry are relevant to interpret the findings of the Court
of Claims. We have concluded that here "replacement
cost" is a spurious, i. e. non-legal, basis for determining
just compensation. It is as though the Court of Claims
had based its opinion on a balance sheet and we had to
interpret the balance sheet into actualities. And so we
hold that, as a matter of law, the co.urt below erred in
utilizing replacement cost as the basis for determining
ivhat constituted just compensation.
When due regard is given to the findings of the Court
of Claims, they fail to establish that the compensation
proffered by the Government for the requisitioned pork
cuts, based on the maximum ceiling prices, falls short of

UNITED STATES v. FELIN & CO.
624

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER. J.

"just compensation." We are therefore not called upon
to consider whether as a matter of constitutional law
prices fixed by the Government for the sale of commodities are the measure of "just compensation" for commodities seized by the Government. As the conflict of opinion
here indicates, that is a debatable issue which, since we
can, we must avoid adjudicating. See Spector Motor Co.
v. McLaughlin, 323 U. S.101,105.
The burden of proving its case was upon the respondent. The nature of this burden was to prove, in light of
the governing facts of the industry, that the administrative award for the taking of respondent's property was
less than just compensation, based as it was on prices
which the Administrator had established for those products and which had been left undisturbed by the process
devised by Congress for assuring the fairness of these
prices. By evidence merely of bookkeeping losses, respondent did not carry its burden of proving actual damage. Just compensation is a practical conception, a matter of- fact and not of fiction. Respondent introduced
no evidence, and the Court of Claims made no findings,
to establish a loss based on its total operations during
the period relevant to the slaughtering of the hogs from
which the requisitioned products were processed. 5 On
15The court below found that the $25,112.50 award was the equivalent of the ceiling price of the requisitioned property when sold at
wholesale in carload quantities at Philadelphia on March 3, 1943,
the date the Government took possession and title; that the respondent customarily sold its products at wholesale but in lots of less than
500 pounds each and that it made delivery to its customers by means
of 57 route trucks; that the ceiling price if the requisitioned property
had been sold in this customary manner would have been $26,362.50;
that the difference between the two ceiling price figures resulted
from the $1 per cwt. deduction. established by the price regulation
for sales in carload quantities; and that the "$1.00 differential was
intended to partially defray the expense incurred for delivery and
sale in less than carload quantities." 67 F. Supp. at 1022. Respondent did not challenge the reasonableness of the $1 differential in

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED,

J., concurring.

334 U. S.

the basis of such figures it would be necessary to determine by reasonable allocations the portion of the loss
properly attributable to the goods seized by the Government. In the proceedings below the respondent neither
alleged such a loss nor submitted proof in support of it.
Since it has not maintained its burden of proving that the
ceiling price award entails damages, the judgment of the
Court of Claims cannot stand.
The judgment is reversed with directions to the Court
of Claims to enter a judgment for the respondent in an
amount not exceeding $12,556.25, with interest on the
amount of $25,112.50 from March 8, 1948, the date of the
requisition, to May 22, 1943, the date of the final award
made by the Directot of the Food Distribution Administration.
MR. JUSTICE REED, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK and
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY join, concurring in the judgment.
I agree with the disposition of this case made by JUSTICE FRANKFURTER'S opinion. However, I cannot concur
in the reasoning by which that result is reached. That
opinion holds that the respondent is not entitled to recover
its petition filed with the court below. Respondent argues here,
however, that the effect of the differential is to reduce the return
it would have netted if it had been allowed to sell the requisitioned
products in small quantities. But, bearing in mind that this is a
suit for actual damages, the argument has a fatal weakness. If
the respondent had sold in smaller quantities at the higher ceiling
price and made delivery by truck, it would have incurred all of the
expenses that motivated the differential-invoicing, billing, handling,
and transportation.

None of these expenses was incurred when the

Government requisitioned the pork products. The "loss" in the
gross sales figures would have been counterbalanced, to some extent
at least, by the additional expenditures. Cf. Superior Packing Co. v.
Clark, 164 F. 2d 343, 347-48. All this bears on the guiding consideration that recovery in this action must be related to proof of
actual loss.

UNITED STATES v. FELIN & CO.
624

REED,

J., concurring.

as "just compensation" anything in addition to the ceiling
price unless it can "establish a loss based on its total operations during the period relevant to the slaughtering of
the hogs from which the requisitioned products were processed" and "determine by reasonable allocations the portion of the loss properly attributable to the goods seized
by the Government." Why a loss on total operations
must be established in order to show the loss on the hog
products requisitioned by the Government is not clear
to me. It is the market value of any product that is
the basis for "just compensation." If there is no real
market value, cost may be an element in the determination of value. Under the circumstances of this case, any
other value than the ceiling price is illusory. Consequently I believe that whenever perishable property is
taken for public use under controlled-market conditions,
the constitutionally established maximum price is the
only proper standard of "just compensation."
Five members of this Court express their agreement
that replacement cost, if relevant, has been properly found
by the Court of Claims. If replacement cost, determined
by any accounting system, is a factor, the evidence on
which the Court of Claims based its findings of that
cost is not before us, and therefore those findings cannot be properly regarded as unsatisfactory. Even if
we assume that the evidence offered did not properly allocate costs, the Government raised no such issue by its petition for certiorari or in its brief. The record does show a
finding of replacement cost based upon some evidence.
In the absence of that evidence from the record, it must be
assumed that it would support the findings. If we assume
that replacement cost is relevant, to say that a manufacturer who proves that cost by the results of his own system
of cost accounting may not retain his award because a
more accurate accounting system exists, though not offered in evidence, disregards the salutary rule that

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED, J.,

concurring.

334 U. S.

litigants in civil matters must be allowed to frame their
issues and prove their cases in trial courts as each desires. This principle includes the introduction of such
relevant evidence as each wishes to introduce. Often
proof of value or damages is difficult. Courts then reach
conclusions from the relevant evidence presented. Palmer v. Connecticut Railway & Lighting Co., 311 U. S.
544; Bigelow v. RKO Radio Pictures, 327 U. S. 251.
Findings are properly made on the basis of the relevant
evidence heard and are not subject to attack because
other available evidence might have been produced.
The suggestion of JUSTICE FRANKFURTER'S opinion as to

a better method for determining replacement cost is futile,
since it furnishes a rule, rejected by the majority of this
Court, for the Court of Claims to use in determining just
compensation. The approval of the method of determining replacement cost used by the Court of Claims by a
majority of this Court logically requires a decision on
whether or not the ceiling price represents "just compensation."
It may be assumed that the respondent cannot replace
the requisitioned hog products at the ceiling price. If
respondent was impelled to replace the requisitioned products in its stock, its reasons for so doing lay in the realm
of business judgment. There was no legal compulsion.
It acted to keep its line of goods complete, to serve its
customers and to preserve its good will. Any additional
cost to the respondent caused by replacing the products
was a consequential damage for which compensation is
not given in federal condemnation proceedings. United
States v. Petty Motor Co., 327 U. S. 372,.378. See United
States v. General Motors Corp., 323 U. S.373, 382.
It has been long established that in a free market the
market price is the proper criterion for determining "just
compensation." Olson v. United States, 292 U. S. 246,
255; Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v. United States, 265 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. FELIN & CO.
624

REED,

J., concurring.

106, 123. In Vogelstein & Co. v. United States, 262 U. S.
337, this Court held that the prevailing price in a controlled market was "just compensation." The Vogelstein
Company was a wholesaler of refined copper. Between
September 28, 1917, and February 1, 1918, the United
States requisitioned from the Company 12,542,857 pounds
of copper for which it paid 23.5¢ per pound. But this
price was notA the result of the interplay of supply and
demand on a free and open market; it was a price fixed
by an agreement made by the War Industries Board with
copper producers and approved by the President on September 21, 1917. Vogelstein Company, although not a
producer, had apparently cooperated with the producers
in the establishment and maintenance of the 23.5¢ price.
The Company argued that it was entitled to 26.8¢ per
pound-the average cost to it of the copper requisitioned
by the United States. This Court concluded that paying
the fixed 23.50 was correct. "The market price was paid.
The market value of the copper taken at the time it was
taken measures the owner's compensation." 262 U. S.
at 340. Consequently, the judgment of the Court of
Claims dismissing the company's petition was affirmed.
This acceptance of the fixed price as the market value
closely approaches the situation now presented.
It would be anomalous to hold that Congress can constitutionally require persons in the position of the respondent to sell their perishable property to the general
public at a fixed price or not to sell to anyone' and later
to hold that the Government must pay a higher price than
the general public where it requisitions the perishable
property because of a replacement cost, greater than the
fixed price. It is true that the United States by exercising
its power of requisitioning compelled the respondent to
1 See Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S. 414; Bowles v. Willingham,
321'U. S. 503.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED,

J., concurring.

334 U. S.

sell to it; but the compulsion to sell to the general public
at ceiling prices was hardly less severe. The choice was
between sales at the fixed price or, at the best, economic

hibernation and, at the worst, economic extinction. The
two situations are so parallel that the constitutionally
established maximum price may, under the circumstances
here, be properly taken as the measure of "just compensation." That lawfully fixed market price determines what
the perishable article can be sold for or its market value
in any real sense. It gives to the condemnee any profit
for increased value in his hands and takes nothing from
him that he could lawfully obtain since consequential
damages for loss of good will cannot be obtained. Such
maximum price is "just compensation." '
If the Government fixed prices with the predominant
purpose of acquiring property affected by its order, a
different situation would be presented. Here we have
price regulation of meat products on a national scale with
judicial review of those regulations. The Government
sought for itself no unique opportunity to purchase.
The respondent, as JUSTICE FRANKFURTER'S opinion
points out, filed several protests against the Maximum
Price Regulations controlling the ceiling prices of hog
products. These protests were rejected by the Administrator and review by the Emergency Court of Appeals was
not sought. It was during the course of these proceedings that evidence of the profit and loss of the industry
and of the replacement cost of pork products could properly be introduced. However, once the maximum price
had been set and had not been set aside by direct attack,
that price became the only relevant measure of just compensation. Whether normally admissible or not,' the replacement cost of perishable articles then subject to price
control, bought to maintain the good will of a business,
2 Cf.

Nortz v. United States, 294 U. S. 317, 328-29.

3 See Orgel, Valuation Under Eminent Domain (1936) 586.

UNITED STATES v. FELIN & CO.
624

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

cannot be an element in the determination of value to
fix just compensation. Therefore, evidence of replacement cost in condemnation proceedings such as that
before the Court today is irrelevant and should not be
admittecd.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, concurring.
Six members of the Court agree that the judgment of
the Court of Claims must be reversed, but are equally
divided in their groundings. Since I am in partial agreement with both groups, I state my own conclusions
independently.
It may be, as my brother REED and those who join
with him think, that the ceiling price in a wartime controlled market should furnish the measure of constitutional just compensation for property of a highly perishable nature taken. Perhaps also this view should be
qualified further, as by some limitation which would make
adjustments beyond that price permissible when the circumstances of the taking are such that they would entail
destruction of property values beyond those inherent
merely in the property which the Government receives
and uses.1
But I am also in agreement with my brother FRANKFURTER and those who concur with him that it is not
necessary to reach these important constitutional issues
in this case. For I think that, with reference to such
perishable commodities taken under circumstances like
these, the legal market or ceiling price furnishes at least
1 In some situations the Court has allowed compensation for the
destruction of property as being equivalent to "taking" it, cf., e g.,
United States v. Welch, 217 U. S. 333; Richards v. Washington Terminal Co., 233 U. S. 546; United States v. General Motors Corp.,
323 U. S. 373, 384; in others apparently what amounted in effect
to destruction has been regarded as infliction of consequential injuries
and thus as not compensable, cf. e. g., Bothwell v.United States, 254
U. S. 231; Mitchell v. United States, 267 U. S. 341.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

334 U. S.

presumptively the measure of just compensation, and that
this measure should apply unless and until the owner
sustains the burden of proving that he has sustained
some loss for which he is entitled to a greater award.
That burden, I also agree, the respondent has not
sustained in this case. The Court of Claims awarded
respondent its "replacement costs," in the view that
"when property is taken the owner must be put in as
good position pecuniarily as he was in before his property
was taken." 2 Payment of the ceiling price did not do
this, since as the court pointed out respondent "felt
obliged to furnish its customers a certain amount of products, although at a loss, in order to retain their good
will and . . . hold its organization together." '
For this
reason it became necessary for respondent to go into the
market and purchase live hogs and process them, paying
a higher price than it had paid for the hogs from which
the products taken had been processed. In this way respondent incurred a loss it would not have incurred had
those products not been taken.
On this basis, I agree with MR. JUSTIcE REED that the
loss is one for consequential damages. That is, it is one
to compensate for loss incurred to preserve unimpaired
.2107

Ct. Cl. 155, 165. For this grounding the court relied upon
citation of Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 299;
Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v. United States, 265 U. S. 106,, 125; United
States v. Miller, 317 U. S. 369, 374; Walker & Co. v. United States,
105 Ct. Cl. 553. The quoted statement, of course, taken abstractly,
is broad enough to permit the award of consequential damages, an
effect contrary to this Court's consistent rulings. See the authorities
cited in note 4.
a107 Ct. Cl. 155, 165. The record before us contains no proof
that replacing the requisitioned goods was'essential to prevent respondent from going out of business or that the loss of good will
entailed. by the taking, if not repaired by replacement, would have
prevented continued employment of respondent's employees or disrupted its organization.

UNITED STATES v. FELIN & CO.
624

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

respondent's good will,' not to compensate for any value
lawfully obtainable for the articles then or prospectively
within any reasonable future period, in view of the
property's perishable nature, from other sources.
But respondent asserts its claim to "replacement value"
on a different theoretical basis, i. e., not as compensation
for loss incurred in preserving good will, but as the proper
measure of the value of the property when requisitioned.
And if market price, here ceiling price, is not the measure
of compensation, it is said "replacement cost" furnishes
the best substitute or at any rate an appropriate element
for consideration.
The difference in the present circumstances would seem
to be highly verbal. For in any event the loss was actually incurred for the purpose of keeping respondent's customers satisfied and thus preserving its good will unimpaired; in other words, to prevent the accrual of injury
consequential to the taking.
It is true that in circumstances where there is no market value, "replacement cost" has been held appropriate
for consideration in reaching a judgment concerning the
value which is just compensation. But this seems to me
a different thing from allowing such proof, when the
loss it reflects has been incurred solely to prevent consequential injury, and there is a market value presumptively
valid to compensate for all losses incurred except that
loss. To allow that proof in these circumstances would
be in substance if not in forjm to permit an award for
elements of consequential damages entirely out of line
with the policy of this Court's prior decisions concerning
compensation for such injuries.'
4 See United States v. Petty Motor Co., 327 U. S. 372, 378, and
authorities cited; cf. United States v. General Motors Corp., 323 U. S.
373, 383.
5 See authorities cited in note 4.
792588 0--48-46

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

The considerations set forth by my brother FRANKrespecting the difficulties, indeed the near impossibility, of proving costs in this case would seem to support
this conclusion. Accordingly, I concur in the judgment
of the Court.
FURTER

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,
LAS joins, dissenting.

with whom MR. JUSTICE DOUG-

It would appear that this Court in this case is exceeding
the limitation placed by Congress on its review of Court
of Claims decisions. 28 U. S. C. § 288; 53 Stat. 752.
The Court does not decide, as Congress has authorized it
to do, that any finding of the Court of Claims is not supported by substantial evidence, or that the ultimate findings lack support in evidentiary findings, or that there has
been a failure to make findings on the material issues.
Instead, in effect it sets aside the judgment below on its
own interpretation of "recognized facts in the meat industry." Of these it takes judicial notice on the basis
of an assortment of publications which, whatever their
merits if called to the attention of the court below, should
not in this Court outweigh specific findings of fact by
the Court of Claims based on evidence before it.
Taking the facts as found by the Court of Claims, the
case is this: Claimant was a meat packer and among
its products were pork chops. The Government set a
maximum price at which pork chops could be sold. It
set no maximum price on the two principal factors in the
cost of pork chops, viz: live hogs and labor. The result
was that claimant's uncontrolled costs mounted until, on
what is found to be a fair allocation of costs between
chops and other products of the hog, it was costing more
to produce the pork chops than the price for which claimant was permitted to sell them. But there were certain
collateral benefits derived from supplying old patrons,
even at a loss, to avoid heavier losses from shutting down

UNITED STATES v. FELIN & CO.
624

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

the business and to keep customer good will for the hopedfor day of normal business.
However, the Government decided to buy claimant's
chops. It offered the maximum OPA price. As there
was no such compensating advantage to the packer in
selling its choice cuts to the Government at a loss, as in
keeping its business going with its general customers, it
refused the offer. The Government then seized its pork
chops and the company now claims the "just compensation" which the Constitution guarantees to those whose
private property is taken for public use. The Government contends, and the practical effect of the Court's
holding is, that the company can recover only the maximum price fixed for its products by the Office of Price
Administration, in spite of the finding that this is less
than it cost to produce or to replace them.
It is hard to see how just compensation can be the legal
equivalent of a controlled price, unless a controlled price
is also always required to equal just compensation. It
never has been held that in regulating a commodity
price the Government is bound to fix one that is adequately compensatory in the constitutional sense, so long
as the owner is free o keep his property or to put it on
the market as he chooses. If the Government were required to do so, the task of price regulation would be
considerably, if not disastrously, complicated and retarded. It seems quite indispensable to the Government
itself, for the long-range success of price controls, that
fixed prices for voluntary sales be not identified with
the just compensation due under the Constitution to one
who is compelled to part with his property.
The war did not repeal or suspend the Fifth Amendment. United States v. New River Collieries, 262 U. S.
341, 343; United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S.
81, 88. But it is obvious that the constitutional guaranty
of just compensation for private property taken for pub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

334 U. S.

lic use becomes meaningless if the Government may first,
under its "war powers," fix the market price and then make
its controlled figure the measure of compensation.
It must be remembered that market price, as such, is
not controlling. The Fifth Amendment's "exact limitation on the power of the government" ' is not market
price-it is just compensation. The former is relevant,
and -this Court has so considered it, only because, in a
free market, it is perhaps the best key to value at the
time of taking. Original cost and replacement cost yield
to it only because of that factor. But here, there is no
true market price ' to provide the usually accepted standard of value. The relevance of original cost and replacement cost, even in this situation, cannot seriously be
denied. In the absence of an over-riding free-market
1 Such a rule hardly squares with the doctrine laid down by this
Court more than fifty years ago that "the compensation must be
-a full and perfect equivalent for the property taken," Monongahela
Navigation Company v. United States, 148 U. S.312, 326, or later expressions that "the owner shall be put in as good position pecuniarily as he would have been if his property had not been taken," Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 299, 304; Olson v.
United States, 292 U. S. 246; United States v. Miller, 317 U. S. 369.
2,,... in this Fifth Amendment, there is stated the exact limitation on the power of the government to take private property for
public uses." , Monongahela Navigation Co, v. United States, 148
U. S. 312,325.
3The price approved as just compensation in Vogelstein & Co. v.
United States, 262 U. S.337, was fixed by agreement between the
Government and the producers, represented by a committee whose
membeis Vogelstein had nominated, and helped to elect, to represent
the industry. Thus that price is not comparable to the Governmentdictated price involved in this case. In the Vogelstein case, this
Court said: "Appellant's contention that there was no market price
other than that fixed by the fiat of the United States is without sup-

port. . .

."

262 U. S.339.

And, further, "The finding of the Court

of Claims is plain and cannot be read as referring to a mere fiat
price." 262 U. S. 340.

GREYHOUND LINES v. MEALEY.
624

Syllabus.

price, the courts must turn to the soundest standards
otherwise available.
We think the Court of Claims made no error of law
in thinking that the controlled market price for voluntary
sales was not the measure of just compensation for the
seized pork chops. Limiting our review to the Scope which
Congress has authorized, we find no error in its calculation of just compensation for the purposes of complying
with the constitutional requirements.

CENTRAL GREYHOUND LINES, INC: v. MEALEY
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 14.

Argued October 13, 1947.-Decided June 14,1948.

1. The validity of a state tax under the Federal Constitution was
challenged before the State Tax Commission of New York and
on review before the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court.
Notwithstanding a claim that the only question presented was one
of statutory construction, the Court of Appeals of New Yoik
expressly sustained the constitutionality of the tax and certified
in its remittitur that it had done so. On appeal to this Court,
held: The constitutional question is properly before this Court for
review. Pp. 654-655.
2. A common carrier by motor vehicle challenged the validity under
the Federal Constitution of a New York tax on its gross receipts
from transportation of passengers between two points in the State
but over a route 42.53% of which was in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Held: New York may constitutionally tax gross receipts
from the transportation apportioned as to the mileage within the
State; but the tax on gross receipts from that portion of the mileage
outside the State unduly burdens interstate commerce, in violation
of the commerce 'clause of the Constitution. Pp. 655-664.
296 N. Y. 18, 68 N. E. 2d 855, reversed.

The constitutionality of a tax levied by New York on
gross receipts of a common carrier from transportation

