PHYLE v. DUFFY.
Syllabus.

410

The Constitution that permits the bar of aliens from
public works surely must permit their bar from state
fishing rights. A state has power to exclude from enjoyment of its natural resources those who are unwilling or
unable to become citizens.
If aliens, as I think -they can, may be excluded by a
state from fishing privileges, I see no reason why the
classification established by California excluding only
aliens ineligible to citizenship is prohibited by the Constitution. Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 220.
Whatever we may think of the wisdom of California's
statute, we should intervene only when we conclude the
state statute passes constitutional limits.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON joins in this dissent.

PHYLE v. DUFFY, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 655.

Argued April 20-21, 1948.-Decided June 7,1948.

Petitioner was convicted of murder, sentenced to death, and imprisoned pending execution. In compliance with a California statute
forbidding the execution of an insane person and prescribing a
procedure for obtaining a judicial determination of a prisoner's
sanity (to be initiated by the warden if "there is good reason to
believe" that he has become insane), petitioner was adjudged
insane and taken to a state hospital. Thereafter, without notice
or hearing, the medical superintendent of the hospital certified
that petitioner's reason had been restored; and he was returned
to prison and a new date was set for his execution. He instituted
a habeas corpus proceeding in the State Supreme Court; but that
court denied relief. Held: Since the judgment denying habeas
corpus may rest on the adequate non-federal ground that petitioner
had pursued the wrong state remedy, it is not appropriate for
this Court at this time to pass on the federal constitutional questions presented. Pp. 432-444.
(a) It appears that there is a state remedy by mandamus available to petitioner under which he can invoke judicial action to

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
334 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

compel the warden to again initiate judicial proceedings to determine petitioner's sanity and that in such mandamus proceeding
the court will hear and consider evidence to determine whether there
is "reason to believe" that petitioner is insane. Pp. 440-442.
(b) Nobles v. Georgia, 168 U. S. 398, distinguished. Pp. 437-439.
(c) A declaration by the Attorney General of California that
petitioner has not availed himself of the appropriate state remedy
is entitled to great weight, in the absence of controlling state statutes and court decisions. P. 441.
(d) Although mandamus might not be available under California
law if there were another remedy, so far as here appears, and
in the light of the decision of the State Supreme Court, mandamus
to compel action by the warden is the only remedy available to
the petitioner. P. 442.
(e) This Court can not say at this time that the remedy by
mandamus available to petitioner under California law will be
less than a substantial equivalent of one whereby he could apply
directly to a court for a full hearing. Pp. 442-444.
30 Cal. 2d 838, 186 P. 2d 134, certiorari dismissed.

In a habeas corpus proceeding instituted by petitioner
in the Supreme Court of California, that court denied
relief. 30 Cal. 2d 838,186 P. 2d 134. This Court granted
certiorari. 333 U. S. 841. Certioraridismissed, p. 444.
Morris Lavine argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Clarence A. Linn, Deputy Attorney General of Cali-

fornia, argued the cause for respondent.

With him on the

brief was Fred N. Howser, Attorney General,

MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

The petitioner is under sentence of death for murder
in the first degree imposed by a California superior court
and affirmed by the State Supreme Court. 28 Cal. 2d
671, 171 P. 2d 428. The validity of that sentence is

PHYLE v. DUFFY.
431

Opinion of the Court.

not here challenged.' But § 1367 of the California Penal
Code provides that "A person cannot be tried, adjudged
to punishment, or punished for a public offense, while
he is insane." Thus if petitioner is insane, California
law prohibits his execution under the death sentence
which he received. The legal questions here presented
relate to the procedures adopted by California to determine whether petitioner is sane or insane as a matter
of fact.
It is petitioner's contention that, though having been
pronounced insane in a judicial proceeding after his conviction, and though he in fact is still insane, he is about
to be executed because a state doctor, acting under authority of state statutes, has delared him restored to
sanity. The doctor reached his determination without
notice or hearings, and without any opportunity on petitioner's part to obtain an original court hearing and
adjudication of his sanity, or even to obtain a court review
of the doctor's conclusion that he is sane. This procedure it is argued constitutes a denial to petitioner of
1The opinion of the State Supreme Court affirming petitioner's
sentence shows: Upon arraignment in the Superior Court counsel
was appointed for petitioner at his request. His pleas were "Not
guilty" and "Not guilty by reason of insanity." Later petitioner
informed his counsel that he wished to withdraw these pleas and enter
a plea of guilty. The trial judge then examined petitioner at length,
satisfied himself that the change of plea was voluntarily entered by
petitioner with full knowledge of his legal rights, and then accepted
it. Evidence was then taken by the court to determine the degree
of the murder and to fix the punishment. Two physicians appointed
by the court testified that in their judgment petitioner was sane.
Other witnesses testified to the facts of the crime. The murder was
committed by petitioner while he was in the act of perpetrating a
robbery. During the entire proceedings, so the State Supreme Court
found from the record, the appointed counsel participated and represented petitioner "with fidelity and proficiency." People v. Phyle,
28 Cal. 2d 671, 171 P. 2d 428.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U..S.

that due process of law guaranteed him by the Fourteenth
Amendment.
This contention was urged upon the California Supreme Court in habeas corpus proceedings there instituted. That court entertained and considered the petition, but, with two judges dissenting, denied relief, sustaining the validity of the power of the state's executive
agents to follow the prescribed statutory procedures. 30
Cal. 2d 838, 186 P. 2d 134. We granted certiorari because of the serious nature of the due process contentions
presented in the petition. 333 U. S.841. Here the California attorney general, while supporting the State Supreme Court's denial of habeas corpus, asserts that
California affords petitioner an adequate judicial remedy
by way of mandamus, a procedure which has not yet
been sought by petitioner.
The California procedure may perhaps be better understood by explaining the application of the controlling
California statutes to petitioner's case. While he was
in prison awaiting execution of the death sentence a
question arose concerning the petitioner's sanity at that
time. Section 3701 of the State Penal Code ' prescribes
that if "there is good reason to believe" that a defendant
under sentence of death "has become insane, the warden
must call such fact to the attention of the district attorney." It is the district attorney's "duty" immediately
"3701. Insanity of defendant, how determined. If, after his delivery to the warden for executidn, there is good reason to believe that
a defendant, under judgment of death, has become insane, the warden
must call such fact to the attention of the district attorney of the
county in which the prison is situated, whose duty it is to immediately file in the superior court of such county a petition, stating the
conviction and judgment, and the fact that the defendant is believed
to be insane, and asking that the question of his sanity be inquired
into. Thereupon the court must at once cause to be summoned and
impaneled, from the regular jury list of the county, a jury of twelve
2

persons to hear such inquiry."

PHYLE v. DUFFY.
431

435

Opinion of the Court.

to institute proceedings in an appropriate trial court to
determine the sanity of the defendant, and the court
"must at once" summon a jury of twelve to "hear such
inquiry." In petitioner's case this prescribed course was
followed, a judicial hearing was held as provided by
§ 3702,1 and petitioner was adjudged insane. In accordance with § 3703" the court then ordered that petitioner
"be taken to a state hospital for the insane and be there
kept in safe confinement until his "reason is restored."
It will be noted that the petitioner obtained a judicial
hearing as to sanity only because the warden instituted
proceedings after determining that there was "good reason to believe" that the petitioner was insane. Thus,
the opportunity for a person under sentence of death
to have a hearing before judge and jury on the question
of his sanity depends in the first, instance solely on the
warden.
After adjudication of insanity the petitioner was taken
to a stafe hospital for the insane in compliance with
the trial court's order of commitment. In accordance
with § 3704 ' the warden then suspended the death sen3 "3702. Duty of district attorney upon hearing. The district
attorney must attend the hearing, and may produce witnesses before
the jury, for which purpose he may issue process in the same manner
as for witnesses to attend before the grand jury, and disobedience
thereto may- be punished in like manner as disobedience to process
issued by the court."
4 "3703. Convict found insane. The verdict of the jury must be
entered upon the minutes, and thereupon the court must make and
cause to be entered an order reciting the fact of such inquiry and the
result thereof, and when it is found that the defendant is insane, the
order must direct that he be taken to a State hospital for the insane,
and there kept in safe confinement until his reason is restored."
5"3704. Convict found sane: Duties of warden. If it is found
that the defendant is sane, the warden must proceed to execute the
judgment as specified in the warrant; if it is found that the defendant
is insane, the warden must suspend the execution and transmit a

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

tence and delivered certified copies of the court's order
to the governor and to the medical superintendent of
the state hospital to which petitioner was sent. As § 3704
provides, the superintendent was directed that when petitioner "recovers his reason," the superintendent "must
certify that fact" to the governor, who is then required to
issue to the warden his warrant appointing a day for
the execution of the judgment. The warden then returns the defendant to the state prison pending the
execution of the judgment. This course was followed
with reference to the petitioner. Eighteen days after
his admission to the state hospital the medical superintendent certified to the governor that the petitioner
was then sane. He was returned to the custody of the
prison warden, and the governor set a new date for his
execution.
The medical superintendent's determination of petitioner's sanity was based on his own ex parte investigation, no notice or hearings having been afforded petitioner
or any person on his behalf. It is thus clear that the
California statutory scheme here challenged provides
neither an administrative nor a judicial hearing as a
prerequisite to a determination that a condemned defendant judicially adjudicated to be insane has been restored
to sanity; one man in an ex parte investigation decides
the question upon which hangs the defendant's life, in
the absence of a later request by the prison warden for
certified copy of the order mentioned in the last section to the Governor and deliver the defendant, together with a certified copy of
such order, to the medical superintendent of the hospital named in
such order. When the defendant recovers his reason, the superintendent of such hospital must certify that fact to the Governor,
who must thereupon issue to the warden his warrant appointing a
day for the execution of the judgment, and the warden shall thereupon return the defendant to the State prison pending the execution
of the judgment."

PHYLE v. DUFFY.
431

Opinion of the Court.

a judicial hearing on the ground that there is then "reason
to believe" the defendant has become insane.
The holding of the State Supreme Court in the habeas
corpus proceeding was:
"There is no authority . . . for the proposition that
defendant hlas a right to habeas corpus or other
judicial proceeding to determine the question of his
sanity after his release from the state hospital. In
fact, section 3700 of the Penal Code 6 expressly
prohibits such a proceeding. Once the superintendent certifies that defendant is sane, he is remanded
to the custody of the warden for execution and 'No
judge, court or other officer other than the Governor'
can then suspend the execution of the judgment,
'except the warden of the State Prison to whom he
is delivered. . . .'"
In re Phyle, 30 Cal. 2d at 842843, 186 P. 2d at 137.
For the statements in its opinion that the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment conferred no
right on a condemned defendant to any kind of judicial
adjudication or review on the question of sanity, the
State Supreme Court primarily relied on Nobles v.
Georgia, 168 U. S. 398. We do not think that either
the actual holding or what was said in the opinion in
that case would necessarily require a rejection of the contentions made here against the California procedures.
The Georgia law under scrutiny in the Nobles case
provided that the sanity of a person previously condemned to death should be determined by a tribunal
formed in the following manner: "The sheriff of the
6"3700. Governor may suspend.

No judge, court, or officer, other

than the governor, can suspend the execution of a judgment of death,
except the warden of the State prison to whom he is delivered for
execution, as provided in the six succeeding sections, unless an appeal
is taken.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

county, with the concurrence and assistance of the Ordinary thereof, [emphasis added] shall summon a jury of
twelve men to inquire into such insanity . . . ." If this
tribunal found insanity the sheriff was required to suspend execution of sentence and report his action to
the presiding judge. Restoration of sanity so as to
justify execution was to be determined by the presiding judge "by inquisition or otherwise." Thus "the only
question" in the Nobles case, as the Court there said,
was "whether . . .in order to constitute due process of
law" the question of insanity of a condemned defendant
must "be tried by a jury in a judicial proceeding surrounded by all the safeguards and requirements of a
common law jury trial, and even although by the state
law full and adequate administrative and quasi judicial
process is created for the purpose of investigating the
suggestion." P. 405. This agency for a hearing to inquire into the prisoner's sanity, composed as it was of
sheriff, county judge and jury, was referred to as an
"apt and special tribunal." There is provision in the
California statutes for a hearing before a judge and jury
when, but only when, the warden is of opinion that there
"is reason to believe" a defendant is insane.
The Nobles case does stand for the proposition that
a condemned defendant has no "absolute right" to a hearing on the question of his sanity on his mere "suggestion."
Such an absolute right, this Court thought, would make
the punishment of a defendant "depend solely upon his
fecundity in making suggestion after suggestion of insanity, to be followed by trial upon trial." P. 406. For this
reason, the Court in the Nobles opinion cited and quoted
from legal commentators and from judicial opinions which
emphasized, as the opinion in the Nobles case itself emphasized, the importance of leaving to the "discretion of a
judge" the most appropriate procedure for determining

PHYLE v. DUFFY.
431

Opinion of the Court.

the sanity of a defendant already sentenced to death. It
was in this connection that the Court made the statement
in the Nobles case upon which the California Supreme
Court particularly relied, that "the manner in which such
question should be determined was purely a matter of
legislative regulation."
Reading this statement in its, context and in relation
to the Georgia procedure, we do not understand that the
Court in the Nobles case passed upon the question here
urged: whether a state which bars the execution of insane
persons can submit to a single individual this question,
crucial to life, to be decided by that individual ex parte,
with or without notice and hearings as the individual may
choose, and without any judicial supervision, control or
review whatever. The Nobles case we do understand to
be an authority for the principle that a condemned defendant cannot automatically block execution by suggestions of insanity, and that a state tribunal, particularly
a judge, must be left free to exercise a reasonable discretion in determining whether the facts warrant a full inquiry and hearing upon the sanity of a person sentenced
to death."
What has been said previously indicates the gravity of
the questions here raised under the due process clause as
heretofore construed by this Court, both the contention
that execution of an insane man is offensive to the fundamental principles of liberty and justice which lie at
the base of all our civil and political institutions, Adamson v. California, 332 U. S. 46; Carter v. Illinois, 329
U. S. 173, and the different contention that life shall
not be taken by a state as the result of the unreviewable
ex parte determination of a crucial fact made by a single
executive officer. See Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S.
7

See cases collected in 49 A. L. R. 804, et 8eq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

276.8 It is not appropriate for us to pass on such constitutional questions in this habeas corpus case if, as the
California attorney general contends, there is a state remedy by mandamus available to petitioner under which he
can invoke judicial action to compel the warden to initiate
judicial proceedings, and in which mandamus proceedings
the court will hear and consider evidence to determine
whether there is "reason to believe" that the petitioner is
insane. New York ex rel. Whitman v. Wilson, Warden,
318 U. S. 688; Woods v. Nierstheimer,328 U. S. 211; Carter v. Illinois, 329 U. S. 173. See also Simon v. Craft, 182
U. S. 427, 437.
The State Supreme Court in denying habeas corpus said
that the state statutes made "no provision for a judicial
determination of the question of the sanity of a defendant
delivered to the warden of a state prison for. execution
except as set forth in" § 3701. That is the section which
requires a judicial inquiry with a court and jury only
when and if the warden certifies that "there is good reason
to believe" that a person sentenced to death has "become
insane." But it does not necessarily follow from the fact
that petitioner cannot obtain a full-fledged judicial hearing as to sanity on his own motion made directly to a state
court that he is without some other adequate state remedy.
And the state attorney general asserts here that the petiioner does have an "ample remedy, if the facts support
him, by application to the California courts for a writ of
mandamus" to compel the warden to institute proceedings
under § 3701.
8

See also Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 369-370; Regal Drug

Corp. v. Wardell, 260 U. S. 386, 392; Duncan v. Kahanamoku, 327
U. S. 304, 322; Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114, 123-124; Brown
v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172, 176; St. Joseph Stock Yards Co. v.
United States, 298 U. S. 38, 49-54, and concurring opinion, Brandeis,
J., at 76-78. Cf. United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253, 263; Simon
v. Craft, 182 U. S. 427, 436.

PHYLE v. DUFFY.
Opinion of the Court.

431

Thus we have an unequivocal declaration by the state
attorney general that petitioner has not attempted to take
advantage of an available state remedy. The attorney
general is the highest fhon-judicial legal officer of California, and is particularly charged with the duty of supervising administration of the criminal laws.' His statement on this question is entitled to great weight in the
absence of controlling state statutes and court decisions."
Nor is there anything in the State Supreme Court's opinion in this case that need be considered in conflict with the
attorney general's opinion. While that court held that
there was no statutory provision for petitioner to obtain a
sanity hearing except through action by the warden as
prescribed in § 3701, it did not hold or even consider
whether there was judicial power under state law to compel the warden to do his duty under, § 3701. It did declare, clearly and emphatically, that the statute imposed
a mandatory obligation on the warden to initiate judicial
proceedings if there was good'reason to believe a condemned defendant insane, an obligation that continued to
rest upon the warden even after certification of restoration
to sanity by the medical superintendent. The Supreme
Court also declared that this duty would continue up to
the very time of execution. Failure of the warden to perform this obligation, so the court said, would be a
"violation of . . . section 1367," which section prohibits
execution of an insane man. In view of this mandatory
obligation upon the warden to initiate proceedings if
"there is good reason to believe" a defendant sentenced to
death is insane, it would be somewhat anomalous, to say
the least, if California courts were wholly without power
to correct an executive agent's abuse of authority in a
9 California Government Code §§ 12510-12512, 12519, 1255012553.
'See Union Ins. Co. v. Hoge, 21 How. 35, 66; Fox v. Stawidard
Oil Co., 294 U. S. 87, 96; Driscoll v. Edison Co., 307 U. S. 104, 115.
792588 0-48-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

matter of such great significance as the execution of
insane persons.
The jurisdiction of California courts to issue mandamus
has its source in Art. VI, §§ 4, 4b, 5 of the state constitution. ;The writ can issue to any inferior tribunal or
person 'to compel an act which the law specifically enjoins. Code of Civil Procedure of California, § 1085. It
has been held that the writ may issue against the secretary of state, Hutchinson v. Brown, 122 Cal. 189, 54 P.
738, or even against the governor. Elliott v. Pardee,
Governor, 149 Cal. 516, 520, 86 P. 1087, 1089.
Petitioner contends, however, that mandamus would
not be available under California law if there is another
adequate remedy, see Kahn v. Smith, 23 Cal. 2d 12, 142
P. 2d 13, that here habeas corpus is available, and hence
mandamus is not. This contention is fully answered by
the State Supreme Court's opinion in this case, holding
that neither habeas corpus nor any other remedy is available to test sanity of a condemned defendant, except
that remedy under § 3701 which only the warden can
institute. Hence, so far as it here appears, mandamus
to compel action by the warden is the only available
remedy.
Petitioner contends *that this remedy is inadequate
because under California law no relief could be hoped
for in a mandamus proceeding without a showing that
the warden's non-action was arbitrary and capricious.
We cannot know, of course, just what precise standards
the State Supreme Court may hold must be met by
petitioner in order to obtain the judicial inquiry provided
in § 3701. We are persuaded by the attorney general's
statements and brief, and by the state constitution, state
statutes, and state decisions to which he referred, that
mandamus is probably available, and that in a mandamus
proceeding, some issues of fact concerning petitioner's
sanity can be drawn by the parties, resolved by the courts,

PHYLE v. DUFFY.
431

Opinion of the Court.

and provide support for relief. Different language has
been used in different opinions concerning the conditions
upon which the writ will issue in California. Although
it has been said that generally the writ will issue only
to correct an abuse of discretion, Bank of Italy v. Johnson,
200 Cal. 1, 31-33, 251 P. 784, 795-796 and cases cited,
it has also been pointed out that in some circumstances
writs can issue to compel action in a particular way.
Wood v. Strother, 76 Cal. 545, 549, 18 P. 766, 769; Landsborough v. Kelly, 1 Cal. 2d 739, 744, 37 P. 2d 93, 95.
In considering what the issues may be in a mandamus
proceeding, it must be borne in mind that the warden
is under a mandatory duty to initiate judicial proceedings,
not when a defendant is insane, but when "there is
good reason to believe" he is insane. We cannot say
at this time that California's remedy by mandamus will
be less than a substantial equivalent" of one which
authorized him to apply directly to a court for a full
hearing. For this Court held in Nobles v. Georgia,supra,
that in the absence of sufficient reasons for holding a
full hearing into the sanity of a defendant sentenced
to death, a state judge may deny such a hearing consistently with due process. As previously pointed out,
the decision in the Nobles case emphasized that due
process of law had never necessarily envisioned a full
court hearing every time the insanity of a condemned defendant was suggested. Applications for inquiries into
sanity made by a defendant sentenced to death, unsupported by facts, and buttressed by no good reasons for
believing that the defendant has lost his sanity, cannot,
with any appropriate regard for society and for the judicial
process, call for the delays in execution incident to full
judicial inquiry. And a court can just as satisfac1

See Edison Co. v. Labor Board, 305 U. S. 197, 234; Opp Cotton

Mills, Inc. v. Administrator,312 U. S. 126, 152-153.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

334 U. S.

torily determine by mandamus as by direct application
whether there are good reasons to have a full-fledged
judicial inquiry into a defendant's sanity.
In this situation we find no federal constitutional question presented which is ripe for decision here. So here,
as in Woods v. Nierstheimer, supra, being unable to say
that the judgment denying habeas corpus may not rest
on an adequate non-federal ground, the writ of certiorari is
Dismissed.
MR.

JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER,

whom

MR.

JUSTICE

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE join, concurring.
DOUGLAS,

Where life is at stake one cannot be too careful. I's
had better be dotted and t's crossed. And so I deem it
proper to state my understanding of the opinion of the
Court, on the basis of which I concur in it.
We granted certiorari to review a decision of the Supreme Court of California which dismissed habeas corpus
proceedings brought in that court. We did so on the
assumption that the case raised questions under the Fourteenth Amendment-more particularly, whether an unreviewable determination by the superintendent of a State
hospital, that one convicted of murder and found to have
become insane after conviction had been restored to sanity
and therefore was subject to execution, was consistent
with the due process which the Fourteenth Amendment
secures. The Court now finds that all that the California Supreme Court did was to hold that as a matter
of California procedure the petitioner's claim could not
be passed on by the direct remedy of habeas corpus, but
that there is available a special local remedy, labeled
mandamus, whereby the petitioner can judicially test his
present sanity. In short, the Court dismisses the writ of
certiorari because the decision of the court below rests on

PHYLE v. DUY
431

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

a purely State ground, in that there is a State remedy
available, which has not been pursued, by means of which
he can secure the rights he claims under the United States
Constitution.
Of course I recognize the weight to be attached to the
Attorney General's views regarding the law of California.
But the controlling voice on California law is that of
the Supreme Court of California. Whatever may be the
elegancies of procedure by which the matter is to be
determined, our decision declining to consider the grave
constitutional issues which we thought we had before
us, is contingent upon a determination by the Supreme
Court of California that the law of that State is
what our decision presupposes it to be, namely, that
California by a remedy which California chooses to call
mandamus enables the present petitioner to secure a
judicial determination of his present sanity. This means,
of course, not the very restricted scope of relief which is
normally associated with the traditional remedy of
mandamus. It presupposes that California affords petitioner the means of challenging in a substantial way the
ex parte finding of the Superintendent of the State Hospital for th; Insane and enables him to secure judicial
determination of the claims he has made in his petition for
habeas corpus which, so the Court now holds, is not the
proper way to proceed.
Upon this view I concur in the decision and opinion
of the Court.

