3 OCTOBER TERM, 1947.

302

Opinion of the Court.

334 U.S.

HUNTER, WARDEN, v.MARTIN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 643.

Argued April 22, 1948.-Decided May 24, 1948.

A state prisoner sentenced by a federal court to imprisonment for
ten years beginning "at the expiration of the sentence now being
served" in the state prison, who is paroled from the state prison
before expiration of the state sentence and surrendered by state
authorities to federal custody, must begin serving his federal sentence immediately and is not entitled to temporary freedom pending expiration of the full term of the state sentence. Pp. 302-304.

165 F. 2d 215, reversed.

In a habeas corpus proceeding, a district court discharged the writ and remanded a federal prisoner to
custody. The circuit court of appeals reversed without
opinion. 165 F. 2d 215. This Court granted certiorari.
333 U. S. 854. Reversed, p. 304.
. W. Marvin Smith argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,
Assistant Attorney General Quinn, Robert S. Erdahl and
PhilipR. Monahan.
James F. Reilly argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner is held prisoner in the United States Penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kansas. He pleaded guilty to
charges of forging and uttering United States Treasury
checks. He was sentenced to imprisonment for ten years
on each count, to run concurrently, and the judgment provided that sentence should "begin to run at the expiration
of the sentence now being served in the Missouri State'

HUNTER v. MARTIN.
302

Opinion of the Court.

Penitentiary." Petitioner was returned to the Missouri
authorities to resume the service of a state sentence of
three years for automobile theft. On May 13, 1947, before expiration of such period, he was paroled by the State
and delivered to the federal authorities, by whom he has
since been held. He contends that the federal sentence
does not begin until the full term of the State sentence
has expired and that, for the period of parole, he is entitled
to freedom. The issue as to whether such wording of a
federal sentence entitles the prisoner under such circumstances to temporary freedom is one on which Circuit
Courts of Appeals are in conflict. Compare United
States ex rel. Lombardo v. McDonnell, 153 F. 2d 919;
Johnston v. Wright, 137 F. 2d 914; Kirk v. Squier, 150 F.
2d 3: Martin v. Hunter, 165 F. 2d 215. We brought the
case here on certiorari, 333 U. S. 854, to resolve the
conflict.
We think it clear that the purpose of the clause deferring commencement of service of the federal sentence
was to prevent conflict between the State and Federal
Governments. The present federal imprisonment avoids
such conflict and achieves that purpose. Missouri authorities have released petitioner from their custody and
surrendered him for the apparent purpose of serving his
federal sentence and have reserved control over him as a
parolee only in event he is not kept in prison during the
period. of the federal sentence. For all practical purposes
contemplated by the judgment, the State sentence has
expired-at least insofar as it was an obstacle to service
of the federal sentence.
To hold otherwise would mean that a man already
finally adjudged guilty of a serious federal crime and
sentenced to ten years imprisonment would be left at
large and free of all restraint for an interlude between
release from the state prison and commencement of the
federal term. We do not think such a result is required

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

or intended under the statute, 18 U. S. C. ยง 709a,' or
under the terms of the sentence as imposed.
The District Court, after full hearing, dismissed the
writ of habeas corpus and remanded petitioner to custody
to serve his sentence. We think this was a corre Jisposition of the matter. The Circuit Court of Appeals'
decision to the contrary is error.
Judgment reversed.

BRIGGS, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. PENNSYLVANIA
RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 530.

Argued March 30, 1948.-Decided May 24, 1948.

1. In a civil suit in a federal district court, the jury rendered a
verdict for plaintiff; but the court dismissed the complaint for
lack of jurisdiction. The circuit court of appeals reversed and
directed that judgment be entered on the verdict for plaintiff;
but its mandate made no provision for interest. Held: In entering
judgment tinder the mandate, the district court may not add
interest from the date of the verdict to the date of judgment.
Pp. 305-307.
2. The rule that an inferior court has no power or authority to
deviate from a mandate issued by an appellate court interdicts
allowance of interest not provided for in the mandate. P. 306.
164 F. 2d 21, affirmed.

In a suit under the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
the jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff but the dis-

trict court dismissed the complaint for lack of jurisdiction.
The circuit court of appeals reversed, 153 F. 2d 841, and

directed that judgment be entered on the verdict. The
district court entered judgment for the amount of the
verdict plus interest from the date thereof to the date
I The Act of June 29, 1932, c. 310, ยง 1, 47 Stat. 381.

