OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

334 U. S.

COE v. COE.
CERTIORARI TO THE PROBATE COURT FOR WORCESTER COUNTY,
MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 37.

Argued October 14, 1947.-Decided June 7, 1948.

In a suit between residents of the state, a Massachusetts court granted
a wife separate support and denied her husband a divorce. The
husband went to Nevada and sued for divorce there as soon as he
had been there the six weeks required by Nevada law. The wife
appeared personaly and by counsel, filed a cross-complaint for
divorce, admitted the husband's Nevada residence, and participated
personally in the proceedings. After full opportunity to try the
jurisdictional issues, the Nevada court found that it had jurisdiction and granted the wife a divorce, which was valid and final under
Nevada law. The husband then married again and returned to
Massachusetts, whereupon his ex-wife petitioned the Massachusetts
court to adjudge him in contempt for failing to make payments for
her separate support under its earlier decree. She also moved that
the support decree be modified so as to award her a larger allowance. The husband defended on the ground of the Nevada divorce.
The Massachusetts court held the Nevada divorce void for want
of jurisdiction and increased the first wife's allowance for separate
support. Its opinion. contained no intimation that, under state
law, the decree for separate support would survive if the Nevada
divorce were valid. Held.: By subjecting the Nevada decree to
collateral attack, the Massachusetts court denied it full faith and
credit contrary to Art. IV, ยง 1 of the Constitution and the Act
of May 26, 1790, 28 U. S. C. ยง687. See Sherrer v. Sherrer, ante,
p. 343. Pp. 379-384.
320 Mass. 295, 69 N. E. 2d 793, reversed.

A Massachusetts probate court denied a divorce to a
resident of that state and granted separate support to his
wife. The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
affirmed. 313 Mass. 232, 46 N. E. 2d 1017. He went
to Nevada and sued for a divorce. His wife appeared
personally and filed a cross-complaint. The Nevada
court found that it had jurisdiction and granted the wife
a divorce. Upon the husband's return to Massachusetts,

COE v. COE.
378

Opinion of the Court.

the wife petitioned the probate court there to adjudge him
in contempt for failure to make payments for her support
under its earlier decree. She also moved for an increase
in her allowance under the support decree. Upon proof
of the Nevada divorce, the probate court dismissed the
petition. The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
reversed. 316 Mass. 423, 55 N. E. 2d 702. After hearings on the issue of domicile, the probate court held the
Nevada divorce void for want of jurisdiction and increased
the wife's allowance for support. The Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts affirmed. 320 Mass. 295, 69 N. E.
2d 793. This Court granted certiorari. 330 U. S. 814.
Reversed, p. 384.
Samuel Perman argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief was George H. Mason.
Frfzncis M. Shea argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Warner W. Gardner.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is the companion case to Sherrer v. Sherrer, ante,
p. 343. We granted certiorari to consider the contention
of petitioner that the courts of Massachusetts have failed
to accord full faith and credit to a decree of divorce
rendered by a court of the State of Nevada.
Petitioner, Martin V. B. Coe, and the respondent,
Katherine C. Coe, were married in New York in 1934,
and thereafter resided as husband and wife in Worcester,
Massachusetts.1 Discord developed between the parties,
and on January 13, 1942, respondent filed a petition for
separate support in the Probate Court for the County
of Worcester. Petitioner answered and filed a libel for
1

It appears that after October, 1940, petitioner maintained an

apartment in New York City. The Massachusetts courts found that
petitioner did not thereby lose his Massachusetts domicile.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U'S.

divorce. Following a hearing, the petition for separate
support was granted and the libel for divorce was dismissed.2 The decree of the Probate Court was affirmed
by the Supreme Judicial' Court of Massachusetts on
February 23, 1943.'
Petitioner left Worcester in May, 1942, and arrived
in Reno, Nevada, on June 10, accompanied by his secretary, one Dawn Allen, and her mother. On July 24,
1942, petitioner, through his attorney, instituted divorce
proceedings by filing a complaint in the First Judicial
District Court of the State of Nevada. The complaint
alleged that petitioner was a bona fide resident of the
State of Nevada and charged respondent with desertion
and extreme cruelty. Respondent received notice of the
proceedings while in Massachusetts. She arrived in
Nevada in August, 1942, and thereafter, through attorneys, filed an answer to petitioner's complaint together
with a cross-complaint for divorce alleging extreme cruelty
on the part of petitioner as grounds for her suit. Respondent's answer admitted as true the allegations of
petitioner's complaint relating to petitioner's Nevada
residence.
At the hearing in the divorce proceedings, petitioner
and respondent appeared personally. Both parties were
represented by counsel. Petitioner testified that he had
come to Nevada with the intention of making that State
By the terms of the decree of separate support entered on March
25, 1942, petitioner was ordered to pay to respondent the sum. of
$35 each week.
3313 Mass.232, 46 N. E.2d 1017 (1943).
4 The first
allegation of petitioner's complaint stated: "That plaintiff for more than six weeks last past afid immediately preceding the
filing of this complaint has been continuously and now is, a.bona fide
resident of, and during all of said period of time, has had and now
has his residence within-the State of Nevada, and has been physically,
corporally and actually present in said State during all of the aforesaid period of time."
2

COE v. COE.
378

Opinion of the Court.

his home and that such was his present intention. Respondent gave testimony with respect to specific acts of
cruelty, but raised no question in relation to petitioner's
domicile. On September 19, 1942, the Nevada court,
after finding that it had "jurisdiction of the plaintiff
and defendant and of the subject matter involved," '
entered a decree granting respondent a divorce as prayed
for in her cross-complaint.8 Neither party challenged the
decree by appeal to the Nevada Supreme Court.
Following the entry of the divorce decree, petitioner
and Dawn Allen were married in Nevada. Shortly thereafter, they returned to Worcester, Massachusetts, as husband and wife. In May or June, 1943, they left Massachusetts for Nevada where they remained until August
of that year.
On May 22, 1943, respondent filed a petition in the
Probate Court for the County of Worcester, praying that
petitioner be adjudged in contempt of court for failing
to abide by the terms of the decred for separate support
which had been entered by the Massachusetts court in
the previous year.' Subsequently, respondent also moved
that the decree for separate support be modified so as
5The Nevada courts recognize domicile of one of the parties as
a prerequisite to divoroe jurisdiction, Latterner v. Latterner, 51 Nev.
285, 274 P. 194 (1929). Power to decree divorces in appropriate
cases is conferred upon the District Courts by Nevada statute. Nev.
Comp. Laws, ยง 9460.
6 Incorporated into the decree was a written agreement whereby
petitioner was to pay respondent the sum of $7,500 plus $35 per
week so long as she should remain single. Pursuant to this agreement,
petitioner paid the sum of $7,500 at the time the decree was entered.
7 Appeals lie to the Nevada Supreme Court in divorce cases. See,
e. g., Af-iat v. Afiat, 61 Nev. 321, 117 P. 2d 83 (1941).
8 Apparently upon advice of counsel, petitioner had failed to pay
any of the weekly installments required undet the decree for separate
support or under the agreement incorporated into the divorce decree
after the date of the divorce decree.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

to award her a larger allowance. Petitioner in his answer
denied that the decree for separate support was still in
effect and set up the Nevada divorce decree as a bar to
respondent's action.
In the hearings which followed, petitioner introduced
in evidence an exemplified copy of the Nevada court
proceeding. The presiding judge refused to allow the introduction of evidence placing in issue petitioner's Nevada domicile and thereby the jurisdiction of the Nevada
court, .on the ground that permitting such collateral
attack was not consistent with the requirements of full
faith and credit. Petitioner's -motion to dismiss the action was, accordingly, allowed.
The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts reversed
on appeal, holding that the Probate Court had erred in
excluding the evidence placing in issue petitioner's Nevada domicile and the jurisdiction of the Nevada court.'
In conformity with that judgment, the Probate Court
held an extended hearing on those questions."0 The court
concluded that petitioner- went to Nevada to seek a
divorce; that neither petitioner nor respondent had a
bona fide residence in that State; that the Nevada court
did not have jurisdiction of either party; and that the
divorce was in violation of the provisions of the appli9 316 Mass. 423,55 N. E. 2d 702 (1944).
10 Petitioner testified that since his arrival in Nevada in June, 1942,
he had been domiciled in that State. He stated that he went to
Nevada to help his asthma and to take advantage of the liberal tax
laws and that he intended to reside in Nevada whether or not he
obtained a divorce. He testified further that following his marriage
with Ddwn Allen, he went to Worcester, Massachusetts, for the purpose of disposing of two houses which he owned. He subsequently
returned to Nevada in May, 1943. Petitioner stated that shortly
after his return to Nevada, he learned that respondent had instituted
contempt proceedings in the Massachusetts Probate Court and upon
advice of counsel went to Massachusetts in August, 1943, to defend
the action.

COE v. COE.
378

Opinion of the Court.

cable Massachusetts statute.1 The Probate Court dismissed petitioner's motion for revocation of the decree
for separate support and modified that decree so as to
award respondent a substantially larger allowance. On
appeal, the Supreme Judicial Court affirmed the order
of the Probate Court dismissing petitioner's motion to
revoke the decree for separate support, on the ground
that the evidence supported the conclusion that petitioner
was never domiciled in Nevada and that the Nevada
courts lacked jurisdiction to enter the decree of divorce.
The order of the Probate Court modifying the decree for
separate support was reversed, apparently for further
hearings on petitioner's financial condition." There is
no suggestion in the opinion of the Supreme Judicial
Court that petitioner, under state law, could be held to
the obligations imposed by the decree for separate support if it be conceded that the Nevada decree of divorce
3
is valid.1
It is clear that the decree of divorce in question is valid
and final in the State in which it was rendered and, under
the law of Nevada, may not be subjected to the' collateral
attack permitted in this case in the Massachusetts courts.'
Respondent does not urge the contrary.
11Mass. Gen. Laws (Ter. ed.), c. 208, ยง 39, provides: "A divorce
decreed in another jurisdiction according to the laws thereof by a
court having jurisdiction of the cause and of both the parties shall be
valid and effectual in this commonwealth; but if an inhabitant of
this commonwealth goes into another jurisdiction to obtain a divorce
for a cause occurring here while the parties resided here, or for a
cause which would not authorize a divorce by the laws of this commonwealth, a divorce so obtained shall be of no force or effect in
this comrronwealth."
12 320 Mass. 295, 69 N. E. 2d 793 (1946).
"3See Rosa v. Rosa, 296 Mass. 271, 5 N. E. 2d 417 (1936); Cohen
v. Cohen, 319 Mass. 31, 64 N. E. 2d 689 (1946). Cf. Estin v. Estin,
post, p. 541; Kreiger v. Kreiger, post, p. 555.
14 Confer v. District Court, 49 Nev. 18, 234 P. 688, 236 P. 1097
(1925). And see Chamblin v. Chamblin, 55 Nev. 146, 27 P. 2d 1061
(1934); Calvert v. Calvert, 61 Nev. 168, 122 P. 2d 426 (1942).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

334 U. S.

Nor has it been suggested that the proceedings before
the Nevada court were in any degree violative of the
requirements of procedural due processor that respondent
was denied a full opportunity to contest the issue of petitioner's Nevada domicile.
It is abundantly clear that respondent participated in
the Nevada divorce proceedings. She appeared personally and gave testimony at the hearing. Through her
attorneys she filed pleadings in answer to petitioner's complaint and successfully invoked the jurisdiction of the
Nevada court to obtain the decree of divorce which she
subsequently subjected to attack as invalid in the Massachusetts courts.
Thus, here, as in the Sherrer case, the decree of divorce
is one which was entered after proceedings in which there
was participation by both plaintiff and defendant and
in which both parties were given full opportunity to contest the jurisdictional issues. It is a decree not susceptible to collateral attack in the courts of the State
in which it was rendered. In the Sherrer case, we concluded that the requirements of full faith and credit
preclude the courts of a sister State from subjecting such
a decree to collateral attack by readjudicating the existence of jurisdictional facts. That principle is no less
applicable where, as here, the party initiating the collateral attack is the party in whose favor the decree was
entered. For reasons stated at length in the Sherrer case,
we hold that the Massachusetts courts erred in permitting
the Nevada divorce decree to be subjected to attack on
the ground that petitioner was not domiciled in Nevada
at the time the decree was entered.
Reversed.
[For dissenting opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

in by MURPHY, J., see ante, p. 356.]

J., concurred

