SUPREME COURT.

CADWALLADER WALLACE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. JOSIAH
C. PAIRxEf, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
Xurisdfction. This court has jurisdiction in an appeal fror. he supreinu court of
the state of Ohio, in a case where was drawn in question at the trial the construction of the act by which Virginia ceded the territory she claimed northwest of the river Ohio to the United States, and of the resolution of congres
accepting the deed of cession, and the acts of congress prolonging the time
for completing titles to lands within the Virginia military reservatiou; the deci.
sion of the supreme court of Ohio, having been against the title set up under
the acts of congress.
Construction of the acts of congress relative to the Virginia reservation of military lands in Ohio.

ERROR to the supreme court of the state of Ohio.
Josiah C. Parker, the defendant in error, filed a bill in the
court of common pleas of Brown county, in the state of Ohio,
praying for an iniunction; and that Cadwallader Wallace, the
defendant in error, should be compelled to release his legal
title to one thousand acres of land in the Virginia military district in the state of Ohio, which Josiah Parker, the grand
father of the complainant, had entered, on or about the 12th of
of January 1788, on part of a Virginia military warrant,
No. 1920; under which entry a survey was made, but which
survey, by the omission of the surveyor, was not returned
to the proper officer for record. The bill stated that the defendant, Cadwallader Wallace, had caused part of the tract to
be located, and had obtained a grant for the same; and upon
the said grant had prosecuted a writ of ejeetment against persons in possession of the land under the complainant.
The defendant held under a patent, dated April 13, 1824,
issued to him in consideration of military srrvices performed
by Thomas Parremore to the United States, a captain, for the
war, in the Virginia line on continental establishment, and in
pursuance of an act of the congress of the United States of the
10th day of August 1790, entitled "an act to enable the officers
and soldiers of the Virginia line on continental establishment to
obtain titles to certain lands lying northwest of the river Ohio,
between the Little Miami and Sciota." The survey on which

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Wallace v. Parker.'

the patent was founded, was dated the 17th day of December
1823. In an answer afterwards filed to an amended bill, he
says that the complainant has no equitable claim to the land,
because thie entry made by him is based upon a resolution warrant, which is not protected by the act of congress, and cannot
therefore be a foundation on which to base a valid entry.
The pleadings also exhibit other questions as to the nature
and validity of the surveys of the land. As no decision of the
court was given upon any of the questions presented by those
parts of the proceedings, they are omitted.
The petition of Josiah Parker, the grandfather and devisor
of the complainant, in 1783, to the legislature of Virginia for
an allowance of land, and the proceedings thereon, were as
follows:
To the Honourable, the General Assembly:
The request of Josiah Parker humbly representeth, that he
was, in October 1775, appointed by the assembly major of the
fifth regiment on continental establishment; that he was, in
August 1776, promoted to the rank of lieutenant-colonel, and
the April following had the honour of receiving a full colonel's
commission in the same regiment, which he retained until
August 1778, when he resigned it to general Washington, on
the banks of the North river, after the arrival of Compte
D'Estaing and the French alliance. That previous to all this,
he raised the first company of minutemen on the south side of
James river, and was on actual duty at the Great Bridge with
his company until his promotion in the continental line. That
since his resignation, he has, on every invasion, been employed against the enemy, and with active and disagreeable commands, with the rank still of colonel in the militia, which he
satisfied himself with, though inferior to the rank he held in
the army, as he felt the satisfaction of serving his country; and
during all this his services in the militia, he never received a
shilling of money of any sort from this state or the continent;
notwithstanding, by the act of assembly allowing a bounty of
lands to the officers and soldiers, he is precluded from any
bihare, because he did not serve three years in a continued line;
that, nevertheless, he is emboldened to request the assembly
will allow him a colonel's allowance of lands, because they
have resolved that generals Stephens and Lawson should receive
VOL. VI.-4 L

682

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallace v. Parker.]

theirs; and although each of these are general officers of the
militia, yet they were only colonels at the same time with
your petitioner, who remained longer in the continental army
than either of them.
In the'House of Delegates, Tuesday, the 18th of November
1783:
Mr Mann Page reported from the committee of propositions
and grievances, that the committee had, according to order,
had under their consideration the petition of Josiah Parler, to
them referred, and had agreed upon a report) and come to a
resolution thereupon, which he read in his place, and afterwards delivered in t the clerk's table, where the same was
again twice read and agreed to by the house, as followeth: It
appears to your com'mittee, that in October 1775, the said
Josiah Parker was appointed a major of the fifth regiment on
continental establishment, in which rank he acted until August
1776, when he was appointed lieutenant-colonel; and in April
1777, he received a full colonel's commission in the same
regiment, and acted in that rank until August 1778, when he
resigned. It also appears to your committee, that since that
resiggation of the said Josiah Parker, he hath, upon every invasion of this state by the enemy, been upon duty with the
militia, in the rank of colonel, with the command of the whole
militia on the south side of James river after the invasion by
General Philips, until the arrival of the Count de Grasse.
Resolved, that the petition of the said Josiah Parker, praying
that he may be allowed the bounty in lands by law given to a
colonel in the continental line, is reasonable.
Land Office, Military Warrant, No. 1920:
To the principal surveyor of the lands set apart for the officers and soldiers of the commonwealth of Virginia. This shall
be your warrant to survey and lay off, in one or more surveys,
for colonel Josiah Parker, his heiis or assigns/the quantity of
six thousand six hundred sixty-six and two-thirds acres of
land, due unto the said Josiah Parker, in consideration of his
services for three years as a colonel in the Virginia continental
line, agreeable to a certificate from the governor and council,
received into the land office.
Given under my hand and seal of the said office, this 21st
day of Nov. in the year 1783. JoHe HAiviE, R. L. Office.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Wallace v. Parker.]

The complainant also exhibited in evidence a patent for five
hundred and ten acres, issued to him by the United States, as
the devisee of Josiah Parker; which patent, bearing date the
Ist of February 1827, recited, that in consideration of military
services performed by Josiah Parker, for three years a colonel
to the United States in the Virginia line on continental establishment, and in pursuance of an act of congress of the United
States, passed on the 10th day of August in the year 1790,
entitled "Can act to enable the officers and soldiers of the Virginia line on continental establishment to qbtain titles to certain lands lying northwest of the river Ohio, between the
Little Miami and Sciota," and other acts of the said congress,
amendatory to the said act, there isgranted by the United
States unto Josiah C. Parker, devisee of the said-Josiah Parker,
a certain tract of land, containing five hundred and ten acres,
situate between the Little Miami and Sciota rivers, northwest
of the river Ohio, on the waters of Red Oak and Eagle creeks,
branches to the Ohio, being part of a military warrant No.
1920.

The court of common pleas of Brown county, on the 26th
of September 1826, ordered and decreed that the complainant's
injunction for the land aforesaid, and the costs of the suit at
law, be rendered perpetual; and that said defendant do, by
deed duly executed, within thirty days( release to the complainant the land. herein before described by metes and bounds;
and, in case of failure of said defendant to execute such release, that then and in that event this decree shall operate as
such release; and it is further ordered and decreed by the
court, that the defendant pay the complainant his costs by him
about his suit in this behalf expended, also his costs about his
defence in the action at law expended, within thirty days; and,
in case of failure, that said complainant have execution for said
costs, and the parties are hence dismissed. And thereupon
the defendant, by his counsel, gave notice that he would appeal from the decree aforesaid to the supreme court.
The supreme court of Ohio, at November term 1828, affirmed the decree of the court of common pleas; and the
defendant prosecuted a writ of error to this court.
The case was argued by Mr Creighton, for the plaintiff in
error; and by Mr Corwin, for the defendant

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallace v. Parker.]

For the plaintiff it was argued that this case was within the
cognizance of the court under the provisions of the twentyfifth section of the judiciary act of 1789. 7 Wheat. 1. The
warrant issued to Josiah Parker by mistake, and this is a matter
to be inquired into by the court. It is shown by the record that
both parties claim under the various acts of congress, relative
to the grants of lands to officers and soldiers of the Virginia
line. The right of the defendant in the state court of Ohio,
under that law, has been denied. Thus the construction of
the act of congress is involved in the case, and the court have
fill jurisdiction over it. By the facts disclosed' in the pleadings and in the exhibits, it is moh apparent that the supreme
court of Ohio, in deciding the case, were bound to review the
statutes of the United States in reference to the subject, and
to give a construction to them. The plaintiff in error contends that the court gave an erroneous construction to the act.
Cited Hickie v. Starke, 1 Peters, 98; Harris v. Denny, 3
Peters, 292; Fisher v. Cockrel, 5 Peters, 248.
As the warrant to Josiah Parker emanated from the state of
Virginia, and was issued by an officer of the state, and the
United States have assumed the execution of the laws of Virginia under which the same was granted, the courts of Ohio
must have had those laws before them and must have construed them:

The law of the United States, of August 10, 1790, gives
land on the Sciota river to satisfy those who are entitled to
land by the law of Virginia, under military warrants. The
plaintiff in error contends that the grant to the devisor of the
defendant in error was not authorized by the Virginia law.
Swann's Laws of Ohio; 70, 127.
It is denied that the title of the defendant in error is protected under the act of congress. In September 1783, congress passed the act proposing the cession of the lands north
and west of the Ohio river to the United States; and in October 1783, the legislature of Virginia acceded to the terms offered by that act.
In May 1779, the state of Virginia passed the first law relative to the grants of lands for military services. No quantity
mtas designated by that act. In October 1779, a law was passed
regulating the quantity each officer should have. Swann's

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Wallace v. Parker.]

Laws, 11. These were the only laws on the subjeot in force
at the time of the cession; and under these laws no one was
entitled to a warrant who had not served on the continental
establishment three years, or until the end of the war; or who
was the legal representative of one who was killed in battle or
had died in the service.
Under the act of congress of 1800, state line officers were
not entitled to land. And that act expired in three years. If
the defendant could avail himself of the provisions of that
act, he was bound to show a complianbe with its provisions
within the three years. The act of 1807 provides for another
class of officers.
After the cession 'made by Virginia to the United States,
she might provide as she thought proper for her meritorious
officers; but that provision could not be made out of the land
ccded, unless the officer had served- three years. And the
issuing of a patent under the act of 1807 is prohibited under
the act of 1807, unless the person app'ying for it was entitled
to a warrant under the laws of Virginia prior to the cession.
The warrant to Josiah Parker was issued u.,der a special resolution of the Virginia legislature, was for services of less than
three years on the continental establishment, and was authorized in November 1783, after the cession to the United
States.
Mr Corwin, contra, argued: 1. That this court had no
jurisdiction of the case on the pleadings and evidence.
2. That the warrant to Josiah Parker was good a'id valid,
it having issued prior to the transfer of the soil by Virginia to
the United States.
3. The warrant of Parker being in usual form) expressing
upon its face legal consideration, and having been issued upon
the order and judgment of the proper tribunal authorized to
hear and determine such cases, and no appeal or writ of error
being allowed from such decision; it cannot be questioned in a
collateral way, but must be taken as conclusive evidence of the
right of Parker to the warrant. Cited on this point, Ohio
Land Laws, 129, 132, 134, 135; Hughes's Ken. Rep. 46;
2 Bibb, 134; 1 Marshall, 149.
He denied that the construction of an act of congress was

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallace v, Parker.]

drawn into question in this case before the courts of Ohio, in
deciding on the rights of the parties.
The warrant of the 21st of November 1783 was before the
courts of Ohio; and it was not necessary for those courts to
look beyond the Virginia laws to decide upon the rights of the
complainant there.
But if the warrant to Josiah Parker was a resolution warrant,
it was good under the act of congress. The cession by Virginia was made in March 1784, and the warrant was issued on
the 21st of November 1783. The act of congress of 1807
covers all land engaged by the state of Virginia prior to the
cession, not prior to the preparatory legislation in reference to
the cession. All existing rights to lands under the legislature
of Virginia were to be satisfied out of the reserved lands.
This is clearly one of the cases included under the act of 1807.
That act relates in terng to resolution warrants, and does not
relate to warrants under the Virginia law of 1779.
A resolution is a law within the meaning of this act. No
officer entitled to a warrant under the Virginia law of 1779
took a resolution warrant: and the necessity for a warrant
arose from the fact that the officer in this case was not entitled
under the act of 1807. Cited, also, Act of Congress of 1803,
7 L. U. S. 171.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error to a decree -ironounced by the supreme court of the state of Ohio, sitting in and for the county
of Brown, in a case in which the defendant in error was plaintiff. The case must therefore be brought within the twentyfifth section of the judicial act, or this court cannot take jurisdiction of it.
The plaintiff in error alleges that the construction of an act
of congress was drawn in question on the trial, and that the
decision was against the title set up under the act; and also,
that the construction of a state raw was drawn in question, as
being contrary to ar act of congress, and the decisioh was in
favour of the party claiming under the state law.
Josiah Parker obtained a land warrant from the land office
of Virginia, for his services in the Virginia line, on continental

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Wallace v. Parker.]

establishment. The defendant in error having located the
warrant on lands in the military reserve, and received a patent
therefor, instituted a suit in chancery against the plaintiff in
error, who held the same land under a prior grant, and obtained a decree for a conveyance. This court cannot examine
the general merits of the decree. Our inquiries are in this
case limited to the question, wnether the record shows that
an act of congress has been misconstrued, to the injury of the
plaintiff in error, or the title of the defendant in error has been
sustained by a law of a state which is repugnant to a law of
the United States. Both questions depenAi on the construction
of the act by which Virginia ceded the territory she claimed
northwestof the riverOhio to the United States, of the resolution
accepting the deed of cession, and of the acts 6f congress prolonging the time for completing titles to lands within the Virginia military reservation.
The deed of cession was executed by the members of congress, then representing the state of Virginia, on the 1st of
March 1784; in virtue of a power conferred on them by the
act of cession, which act it recites. One of the conditions on
which the cession is made, is, 1 Laws U. S. p. 474, "that in
case the quantity of good lands on the southeast side of the
Ohio," "which have been reserved by law, for the Virginia
troops or continental establishment, should" "prove instrfcient for their legal bounties, the deficiency should be made
up to the said troops, in good lands to be laid off between the
rivers Sciota and Little Miamis, on the northwest side of
the river Ohio, in such proportions as have been engaged to
them by the laws of Virginia."
The deed was accepted by congress according to its terms.
The act of cession to which the deed refers was passed on the
20th of December 1783.
In his answer to an amended bill filed by the plaintiff
in the state court, the defendant iays "9that if the complainant's entry does contain that certainty and precision which
the law requires, in order to constitute a valid entry, yet
the complainant has no equitable claim to the lands in questioui, because, first, said entry is based upon a resolution
warrant, which is not protected by any act of congress, and
cannot, therefore, be a foundation on which to base a valid
'
entry."

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallace v. Parker.]

The warrant to which the answer refers is in the usual form,
and does not purport to have been issued in virtue of a resolution. But the warrant did in fact issue on a resolution which
appears in the proceedings in the cause.
It appears that Colonel Josiah Parker presented a petition
to the general assembly of Virginia, in which he stated himself to have served two years and ten months in the Virginia
line or continental establishment, after which he resigned his
commission as a colonel in the army. That since his resignation he had been called into service as colonel, commanding a
corps of militia, during every invasion of the state. He prays
that the assembly will grant him a colonel's allowance of lands.
This petition was referred to a committee, whose report stated
the facts, and concluded with the following resolution. "4Resolved, that the petition of the said Josiah Parker, praying
that he may be allowed the bounty in lands, by law given to
a colonel in the continental line, is reasonable. This resolution v'as approved by the senate, and was passed the 20th of
November 1783.
In March 1807, congress passed an act, extending the
time for locating Virginia military land warrants, which enacts
'that the officers and soldiers of the Virginia line or continental establishment, their heirs or assigns, entitled to bounty
lands within the tract reserved by Virginia, between the little
Miami and Sciota rivers, for satisfying the legal bounties to
her officers and soldiers upon continental establishment, shal
be allowed a further time," &c. This act was continued by
subsequent acts, so as to be in force when the survey was made
under which the complainant in the state court obtained his
decree. Does the act cover his case?
We think it extends to every case which comes within the
reservation made by Virginia in her act of cession. The
deficiency of good lands on the southeast of the river Ohio,
having been admitted by ccngress, the inquiry is, whether
the warrant granted to Josiah Parker is among those for
which the reserve on the northwestern side of that river was
made?
The resolution grants the land to Josiah Parker as a
colonel in the continental line. At the time it was passed,
Virginia possessed the territory in which it was located in

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Wallace v. Parker.]

absolute sovereignty. The deed of cession had not been
executed, nor had the act been passed by which that deed was
authorised. Congress, by accepting the cession, admitted the
right to make it, and that right has never since been drawn into
question.
The resolution then gave to Josiah Parker all the right it
purported to give. What was that? "The bounty in lands
by law given to a colonel in the continental line." By this
resolution Josiah Parker was placed by the state of Virginia
on precisely the same footing with a colonel who claimed under the act which had previously been passed. Had the cession never been made, no distinction could have been taken
between them. The officer by whom the warrant was issued,
perceived no distinction, and the warrant is expressed to be
"for his services for three years as a colonel in the Virginia
continental line." To discover what services the legislature
received as an equivalent for two months of this time, services
performed at the head of corps of militia, we must look at
the petition and the report of the committee.
But the legislature at that time possessed the same power to
bestow their bounty on an officer who had performed the services stated in Colonel Parker's petition, and in the, report of
the committee, as on one who had completed his three years
in the continental line. They possessed the same power to
bestow that bounty on an individual in the form of a resolution,
as on their officers, generally, in the. form of an act. The one
conferred the same rights as the other, and was equally obligatory on the state. Had the lands been retained by Virginia,
no distinction could have been made between these claims, and
it is impossible to perceive any reason why she should have
distinguished between them in the reservation contained in
her act of cession. 15o the words of the act set up this distinction?
They are "that in case the quantity of good land on the
southeast side of the Ohio, which have been allowed by law for
the Virginia troops upon continental establishment, should,"
"prove insufficient for their legal bounties, the deficiency
should be made up," &c.
It cannot be doubted that Colonel Parker's warrant might
have been located on the land "4reserved by law on the southVOL. VI.-4 Al

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallace v. Parker.]

east side of the Ohio, for the Virginia troops upon continental
establishment."
This reservation is made in general terms. It is not connected with the allotment of specific quantities for specific
services. Provisions were afterwards made for this subject,
and those provisions varied at different times. At one time,
service was required during the war; by another act three
years service entitled the officer to his bounty, and an increased
bounty was allowed for those who had served six years and
upwards. Officers who resigned after serving three years,
were entitled to the bounty by an act which was passed so
late as the year 1782. Particular resolutions were passed afterwards, in favour of officers who were deemed by the legislature to have performed services as meritorious as if they had
remained in the regular army for three years. All these warrants were equally entitled to be satisfied out of the land "reserved by law on the southeast side of the Ohio for the Virginia troops on continental etablishment." They were equally
"legal bounties," equally bounties " which had been engaged
to them by the laws of Virginia," before her cession of the
territory northwest of the Ohio; for a resolution receiving
the assent of both houses, is a law as operative as an act of
assembly.
If, then, under the laws of Ohio, we may consider the petition of Colonel Parker and the report of the committee as
part of the record inthis cause, the court of Ohio does not appear to us to have misconstrued the act of cession or any act
of congress.
The decree of the supreme court of the state of Ohio sitting
in and for the county of Brown is affirmed with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the supreme court of the state of Ohio, setting in
and for the county of Brown, and was argued by counsel; on
consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by
this Court, that the judgment and decree of the said suireme
court in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with
costs.

