JANUARY TERM 1832.

WILLIAM W. WATTS AND ARTHUR WATTS'S EXECUTORS, AND
WILLIAM IV. WATTS, ARTkUVR WATTS, JOSEPH SCOTT AND
ELIZABETH HIS WIrEs HEIRS AND LEGAL REPRESENTATIVES OP JOHN WATTS, DECEASED, APPELLANTS V. WILLIAM WADDLE AND ALEXANDER WADDLE'S ADMINISTRATORS, AND ALEXANDER WADDLE, AND WILLIAM, JOHN,
Lucy, EDWARD AND ARGUS WADDLE, INFANTS, BY BEN3TAMIN G. LEONARD THEIR NEXT FRIEND, CHILDREN AND
IEIRS Or JOHN WADDLE, DECEASED, AND WILLIAM LAMB.
decree of a specific performance of a contract to purchase a tract of land refused, in consequence of delay and a defect of title.
The aid of a court of chancery will be given to either party who claims specific
performance ofa contract; if it appear, that in good faith, and within the proper
time, he has performed the obligations which devolved upon him.
It Is not in the power of one state to prescribe ths mode by which real property
shall be conveyed in another. This principle is too clear to admit of doubt.
In the argument before this court a new ground of relief was assumed, which
had not been made in the circuit court. That if the court should not decree a
specific performance of the contract to purchase the land, yet as the purchaser
had been in the possession thereof, the complainants are entitled to a decree
for the rents and profits of the land while he was in possession. By the court:
there is no rule of court or principle of law which prevents the complainants
from assuming a ground in this court which was not suggested in the court
below; but such a course may be productive of much inconvenience and some
expense.
Although there is no specific prayer in the bil. to be paid the rents and profits,
yet the court think, that under the general prayer, this relief may be granted.
Under this prayer only relief may be given for which a basis is laid in the bill.
In this case the possession of the land by the defendants is alleged, and the
demand for rents and profits would result from this fact. There is no pretence
that this demand was taken into view in the action at law. As it consisted of
unliquidated damages, it was not a proper subject for an offset.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Ohio.
In the circuit court of Ohio, John Watts, a citizen of the
state of Kentucky, filed a bill in chancery against John Waddle and William Lamb, the appellees, to obtain a perpetual
injunction to stay proceedings by John Waddle on a judgment obtained in the circuit court against him, for damages
for the non-performance of a contract made by him with John
Lamb in November 1815, which contract had been assigned

SUPREME COURT.
[Watts et al. v. Waddle et al.]

by him to John Waddle; and also to compel Waddleor Lamb
to a specific execution of the contract. The contract was for
the sale of certain lots of ground in the town of Chillicothe to
William Lamb. for which John Watts agreed to give a good
and sufficient general warranty conveyance, by the 1st day of
February 1816, or as soon as a final decree should be rendered
in the circuit court of the United States, in a suit instituted to
compel Nathaniel Massie and others, to make a conveyance to
the cqmplainant of the legal title to the said lots, the elder
equitable title thereto being in the complainant. William
Lamb, or his assignee John Waddle, was in possession of the
premises at the time of the contract, and continued to hold the
same until and after the judgment for the damages.
Numerous and continuing obstacles, arising, as was alleged,
from other causes than the fault or laches of John Watts, interposed and prevented the conveyance of the premises by a
sufficient legal title until 1826.
In 1824 William Lamb assigned the contract between him
and John Wait to John Waddle, who thereupon instituted
the suit against John Watts, he having been found in Ohio;
and obtained a judgment for damages for the non-performance thereof, amounting to seven thousand seven hundred and
forty-five dollars and fifty cents.
In 1826 John Watts tendered to John Waddle, as the
assignee of John Lamb, a deed of conveyance of the lots, in
conformity, as was alleged, with the contract of 1815, which
was refused by him.
The circuit court of Ohio dismissed the bill of the complainants; and the executors and legal representatives of John Watts
thereupon prosecuted this appeal.
The facts of the case are stated more particularly in the
opinion 'of the court.
For the appellants, Mr Creighton and Mr Clay contended,
that the decree of the circuit court ought to be reversed on the
grounds:
1. That the said circuit court ought to have decreed a specific execution of the contract between Watts and Lamb; Watts
liaving throughout manifested a bona fide intention to fulfil his
covenant, and having, for that purpose, done all that was in-

JANUARY TERM 1832.

391

[Watts et al. V.Waddle et al.1

cumbent upon him to possess himself of. the legal title, which
he tendered, as soon as he acquired it, to Waddle; and neither
Lamb or Waddle, who have constantly remained in quiet possession of the property, having ever demanded a deed, or sustained any injury in consequencee of not receiving one.
2. But if the court below ought to have refused to compel
Waddle now to receive a title from Watts, it ought to have
made Lamb and Waddle liable for the rents and profits of the
estate, from the date of Watts's covenant to the termination of
the suit; inasmuch as they had recovered a judgment for principal and interest of the purchase money, and had peaceably*
enjoyed the possession and reaped the fruits of the property,
up to this time. And this allowance, for rents and profits,
ought to have been applied by the court in abatement of the
amount of the'judgment at law.
They cited 5 Peters, 264. 2 Peters's Condensed Reports,
247. 1 Wheat. 179, 196. 6 Wheat. 528. 6 Craneh, 148.
Mr Leonard, for the appellees, argued:
1. That according to the contract, the deed was to have
been delivered in L18, when the appellant obtained a final
decree in the circuit court in the suit against Massie and others;
and not being at that time able to make a legal and sufficient
title, the complainant could not, in 1826 or afterwards, call on
the appellees to accept of the title. The right of the appellees to
damages for the breach of the contract of 1815, could not be impaired by the subsequent ability of the appellant, if it existed,
to make the title. Cited, Sug. on Vendors, 249. 1 Harrison's
Chancery, tit. Decree, 424, 425, 426. 1 Mad. Chan. 430.
2. The rents and profits could not be set off in the action
for damages; nor should this court now give the appellant the
benefit of the claim to them, against the judgment of the circuit court. Cited, Coop. Equity, 13, 14, 9333; 2 Atk. 3, 141,
325. 12 Ves. 48. 17 Ves. 114, 118. 2 Ves. Sen. 225.
2 Peters, 612. 1 Wheat. 179. 7 Wheat. 535.
Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This suit was brought into this court by an appeal from the
decree of the circuit court for the district of Ohio. The bill -was
filed in that court by the complainant to compel the specific

SUPREME COURT.
[Watts et al. v. Waddle et al.]

execution of a contract, entered into with the defendant Lamb,
on the 1st day of November 185; by which the complainant
bound himself to convey certain out-lots and other land, adjacent to the town of Chillicothe, to the said Lamb, for the consideration of four thousand seven hundred and sixteen dollars
and sixty-six and. two-thirds cents. The conveyance was to
be made on the 1st day of February ensuing, or so soon as a
final decree should be rendered by the United States eirduit
court for the district of Ohio, in the suit then pending in said
court, wherein the said Watts was complainant and Nathaniel
Massie and others defendants.
That suit had been brought by Watts against Massie and
others, including the above defendant Lamb, to recover one
thousand acres of land, which included the land sold by the
above contract, to which Watts derived title from Ferdinand
O'Neal, who claimed under an entry made by virtue of a warrant which'had been granted to him for military services. To
recover this tract of land, Watts first brought a suit against
Massie in the federal court of Kentucky, charging him with
having fraudulently surveyed the lands of O'Nea*, so as to
throw it within the lines of a survey, in the name of Powell,
which was owned by Massie, or in which he had an interest.
In this suit Watts prevailed, and an appeal being taken to the
supreme court, the decree of the circuit court was affirmed.
To parry this decree into effect in the state of Ohio, suit was
instituted by Watts in the circuit court; and this was the suit
referred to in the contract between Watts and Lamb.
By the decree in Kentucky, which was affirmed by the
supreme court, ONeal's entry 509 wa§ made to embrace the
land specified in the contract; and the decree required Massie
to convey to Watts all the land covered by the survey of the
above dntry, although within entries No. 503 and 2462,
amounting to one thousand acres; and Watts was required to
convey one thousand acres, which Were within the calls of
entry 509. Neither of these conveyances has been executed.
A final decree was obtained in this suit in the circuit court
for Ohio, in favour of Watts, in January 1818. Neither Lamb
nor Massie took an appeal in this case to the supieme court;
but it was appealed by some of the defendants, who, it is stated,
had n6 interest in the land now in dispute. A final decree in

JANUARY TFRM 1832.
[Watts et al. v. Waddle et al.]

favour of Watts was entered in the supreme court in September 1822.
In the year 1818 it was ascertained that no patent had been
granted on O'Neal's warrant, and, consequently, that Massie
did not possess the legal title; but, on application, a patent
was issued to Watts on the 1st of March 1826. It appears,
however, that a patent had issued to the heirs of Powell; on an
entry 503, on the 4th of November 1818, which covered a
part of the land that Watts had sold to Lamb.
Finding that the legal estate was vested in Powell's heirs,
Watts commenced a suit against them in the circuit court of
Kentucky, and obtained a decree for the land contained in their
patent, which interfered with his title, in the fall of the year
1826.
Lamb having assigned the covenant to his co-defendent
Waddle, in January 1824, he commenced a suit against Watts
for the recovery of the consideration paid: and at July term
1826, obtained a judgment in the circuit court for seven thousand seven hundred and forty-five dollars and fifty cents, damages and costs.
On the 3d of July, before the judgment, Watts tendered to
Waddle a deed in fee simple for the land, in the contract
agreed to be conveyed, with the costs of the suit, which he
refqsed. A bill was then filed by Watts to enjoin the judgment and compel the defendants to accept of
'ed. The bill
contains also a prayer for general relief. By the decree of the
circuit court this bill was dismissed, from which the complainant appealed to this court. Watts having died since this
suit has been pending in this court, it is now prosecuted by
his heirs.
The complainants insist, that, under all the circumstances
of the case; they are entitled to a specific execution of the contract. Of this there can be no doubt,. if it shall appear, that
there has been a substantial compliance with the covenant on
the part of their ancestor. The aid of a court of chancry
will be given, to either party, who claims a specific execution
of a contract; if it appear that, in good faith and within the
*proper time, he has performed the obligations .which'devolved
on him.
It is insisted thdt the delay whichi occurred in making a
VoL. V.-2 Z

SUPREME COURT.
[Watts et al. v. Waddle et a].]

deed was unavoidable, and is in no manner attributable to
negligence or want of good faith in Watts. That it grew out
of facts which were alike unknown to him, and the defendant
Lamb, at the time the contract was made. That the defendant
Lamb and his assignee Waddle have had the unmolested possession of the land purchased, enjoying the rents and, profits
of it; and that no circumstance has been proved which goes to,
show that the defendants, or either of them, have suffered any
injury from the delay in making the deed.
Various facts are adverted to which go to prove vigilance
on the part of Watts, in prosecuting different suits and in
other respects, in order to obtain the legal title, that he
might make the corveyance. And that so soon as he was
enabled to do so, he lost no time in tendering the deed duly
executed, and also the costs which had accrued on the action
at law.
On the part of the defendants it is contended, that as the
contract was the result of a compromise, they are entitled to a
strict execution of it.
Under a purchase which Lamb had previously made of
Massie and others, he was in possession of the~land embraced
by the contract, at the time it was concluded. And he was,
no doubt, induced to enter into the contract with Watts, under
the impression that he had the equitable, and would soon possess himself of the legal title. The suit then pending had been
brought for that purpose, and as Lamb was one of the defendants, and had no title either legal or equitable, he was desirous
of obtaining a title from Watts.
If Lamb did not'enter into the possession under Watts, it
seems that he acknowledged Watts to possess the better title;
and by making the contract with him, was willing to hold the
possession under him.
It is not perceived, therefore, that there is any thing in the
circumstances under which this contract was made, which
would take it out of the rule of law generally applicable to
cases of contract for the purchase of real property. The contract, it is true, was the result of a compromise respecting a
legal -controversy; but It was entered into with a full knowledge on the part of Lamb, that Watts did not possess the legal
title, but expected to obtain it by a final decree in the ease
.referred to.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Watts et at. v. Waddle et a].]

A final decree was obtained in that case, in the circuit
court, in January 1818; and it is insisted, that it was the dpty
of Watts, at that time, to execute the conveyance; and that
not having done so, he is guilty of such negligence as to prevent the relief he now asks in equity.
In the contract there was a reference to the final decree of
the circuit qou'rt, but as the decision of that court was not final
in the case, and as an appeal was actually taken, by some of
the defendants, to the supreme court; it may reasonably be
inferred that this contingency was within the calculation of
both parties at the time of the contract. It must have been
known to them, that an appeal would vacate the decree of the
circuit court, and that after it was taken, any conveyance made
under such decree would be inoperative. .The final decree,
therefore, ki the circuit court, as referred to in the contract,
could only mean, in the event that the decree of that. court
should finally determine the matter of controversy. But if an
appeal should be taken from such decree, then the final decree
should'be made in the supreme court. There can be no difficulty
in coming to the conclusion that both parties referred to a final
decision of the case; and to such a decree as should vest the
legal title in Watts. And as such a decree was not obtained
until 1822, it is clear that until that time no negligence is imputable to Watts.
It would be" within the spirit of the contract to say, that
Watts was bound to use ordinary diligence in the prosecution
of the suit both in the circuit and supreme court. But there
is no charge of a want of diligence in this respect.
Until 1818 Watts, as well as the defendants, supposed that
the legal title was vested in Massie. There is no ground to
impute fraud or imposition to Watts in reference to this fact.
When he made the contract, and up to the time specified, there
can be no doubt that he believed it final decree against Massie
would give him the legal title. When he made the contract
with Lamb, had he known the fact.that Massie had not the
legal title, and concealed it, dquity could give him no relief.
The concealment would have been a fraud on Lamb, which
would have enabled him to annul the contract. But 'Watts
acted in gogd faith, and being mistaken, unless some injury
consequently resulted to Larub, or an unreasonable deliy fol-

SUPREME COURT.
[Watts et al. v. Waddle et at.]

lowed, equity would look with a favourable eye to the specific
execution of the contract.
Finding that the legal title was vested in Powell's heirs to
a part of the land embraced by the contract, Watts commenced
a suit in chancery against them in the circuit court of the
United States of Kentucky, and obtained a final decree for
the, land, In pursuance of this decree, a commissioner ap.
pointed by the court, under a statute of Kentucky, executed a
conveyance ;n the fall of 1826.
In July 1826, a few months after Watts obtained a patent
for the land. he tendered a deed to Waddle; and in November
1826, after the decree was obtained against Powell's heirs, it
is insisted a deed was again tendered, both of which were refused by the defendant Waddle.
The suit of Waddle, to recover back the consideration money,
was commenced in October 1824;-and prior to its commencement, Waddle offered to surrender the possession of the premises.
When this bill was filed by Watts, it appears, from the facts
in the case, that he did not possess the legal title. The conveyauce under the decree against Powell's heirs, had not, at that
time, been executed. But this deed being afterwards obtained,
Watts may be'cqnsidered as vested with all the title conveyed
by it; and also the title under the patent, which was granted
to him; and the question arises, under these facts, and other
circumstances in the case, whether the complainants are entitled to a specific execution of the contract.
It appears from certain depositions taken in the cause, in
the spring of 1829, that this property, since the purchase, has
depreciated in value one half; but the witnesses do not state
how much of that depreciation has taken place since 1822.
The defendants' counsel insist, that independent of the objection founded upon the lapse of time, there are several material defects in the title of Watts; and tlv the court cannot,
under such circumstances, compel the defehdants to receive it.
It is objected, that a suit is now pending in the general
court of Kentucky, by one Henry Banks, who claims the
warrant on which the entry was made, under which Watts
claims; and it is alleged, that the-deene- against Powell's heirs
did not give Watts a good title.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
Watts et al. v. Waddle et al.]

In October 1821, it appears Banks filed his bill against John
Watts and the unknown heirs of Ferdinand O'Neal, in which
be stated that O'Neal was entitled to land for services as a
captain, in the Virginia line or continental establishinent,
amounting to at least four thousand five hundred acres; and
that for a valuable consideration, he transferred his right to
one Thomas Washington; that Washington, in November
1790, authorised one Thomas Shields to make sale of said lands;
and that on the Ist of March 1791,'for a valuable consideration, he transferred the said lands to the complainant.
He further states, that after the above assignment to Washington, O'Neal fraudulently transferred a warrant for four
thousand acres of said land; and that a certain John Watts had
procured grants for a part of the said four thousand acres, under an assignment from Francis and Charles Scott, made on
the Ilth of October 1799. And it is alleged, that Watts had
full notice of the previous transfer by O'Neal, before the
grants were obtained. The bill contains a prayer for a conveyance of the land specified, and also for general relief.
The assignments set forth in the bill are proved by the exhibits in the case.
Process appears to have been served on Watts the 24th October 1821, and the cause was regularly continued until August
1826; when an order was made, that public notice be given
in a newspaper printed at Frankfort, to the unknown heirs of
O'Neal, under a special statute of Kentucky. And from this
time the cause seems to have been regularly continued, up to
January term 1829.
It is insisted, by the complainants' counsel, that the pendency of this suit cannot affect, injuriously, the title of Watts;
as the court of Kentucky has not jurisdiction of the subject
matter, so as to transfer the title to land in Ohio; and that from
the dilatory manner in which the suit has been prosecuted, it
is manifest that Banks can have no expectation of success.
The general court of Kentucky have jurisdiction of the controversy; and as process was served on the defendant Watts,
their powers are ample to enforce their decree, in personam,
or to direct the execution of a deed, should the land be decreed, by, a commissioner, as the statute of Kentucky authorises.

SUPREME COURT.
[Watts et al. v. Waddle et al.]

Banks has cerianly been dilatory in the prosecution of his
suit, but it is. by no means clear, that by his negligence, in
this respect, he has lost any of his original equity against
Watts. And this is the question now under consideration.
It is not the case of an innocent purchaser, for a valuable consideration, without notice; but, the inquiry is limited to the
rights of the litigant parties. If Banks has been negligent,
what vigilance has been shown by Watts, to terminate the
controversy.
It is said, there has been no rule for answer on Watts. The
record does not show, whether there has been a rule for answer;
and as such a rule, if entered, ought to appear, it may fairly be
presumed that no such order has been taken. But this did
not preclude Watts from taking an order, which would compel the complainant either to dismiss his bill, or bring it to a
hearing.
It would seem, therefore, if Banks has been negligent in
pursuit of his rights, Watts has shown no vigilance in the de-fence of his.
No part of the proceeding in the suit against Powell's heirs,
in the circuit court for Kentucky, is contained in the record,
except the decree. The persons named defendants, are John M.
Powell, Francis Powell, Robert Powell, Margaret P. Bledsoe,
formerly Margaret P. Powell, wife of Joseph Bledsoe, Nancy
J. Rickets, wife of Charles H. Rickets, formerly Nancy J.
Powell, Mary B. Jones, wife of William Jones, formerly Mary
B. Powell and William M. Powell and Susan W. Powell,
Carr, and Fanny his wife, heirs and representatives of Robert Powell deceased. By the decree, the de.
fendants were required to convey to the complainant, sib
hundred and eight acres of land particularly described in the
decree. And if the defendants or any of them failed to make
the conveyance, the court appointed John H. Hanna commissioner, under the statute of the state, to make the deed. It is
admitted, that the deed was duly executed by the commisqloner.
As the record of this case is not before the court, it does no
appear whether process was served on all the above defendants, nor whether they answered the bill. But in reference

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Watts et a]. v. Waddle et al.J

to the object for which this decree is introduced, the prepara.
tory.steps may be presumed to have been regularly taken.
Several objections are mad to this decree. It being entered
against femes covert, it is insisted that the interest of the husbands cannot be affected by it. This seems to be considered
as a matter of form by the complainants' counsel; and if it be
a matter of substance, it is contended that the full record would
show that all necessary and proper parties were made by the
bill. And it is denied, that the decree furnishes any evidence
that the husbands of the females named as having been married,
were living at the time of the decree.
The females are stated to be the daughters of Powell, and
the wives of the persons named. This must be considered as
conclusiverof the fact that their husbands were living. If they
had been dead, the females would not have been named as the
wives of certain persons. Under the .ircumstances, no presumption arises that the husbands are dead; nor can it be necessary for those who impeach the decree to show that they
are living.
As the husbands of the daughters of Powell, where issue has
been born, have a life estate in the premises in question, their
interests cannot be affected in a case where they are not parties.
That some or all of the persons referred to are possessed of
this interest, may fairly be presumed from the circumstances.
A decree, to be operative, mnust contain sufficient certainty in
itself. It canaot be aided by presumption.
It is clear, that the record at length could not obviate this
objection. The defendants are named, and there is no reference by which the decree could be made to operate on the
rights of the husbands. But if it were admitted that a full
record might obviate this objection, it is no'. incumbent on the
complainants to produce it. It- rests with them to make out
their case. To obtain the object of their bill, it is essential tp
show that a clear title was tendered to the defendant Waddle,
or at'least, that they are able to make him a good title. And
this they cannot show, unless there was a full divestiture of the
title from Powell's heirs.
It is also objected, that the widow of Robert Powell is still
living, and is entitled to her dower in the premises. She is

SUPREME COURT.
[Watts et al. v. Waddle et aLl

proved to have been living since the commencement of this
suit, and there is no evidence of her death; and one of the
witnesses states that she had an agent or assignee at Chillicothe
a few years since, claiming her right of dower.
But it is contended, that the widow of Powell eould not
recover dower in this land, as, at most, he could only be considered as holding the land in trust for Watts, In proof of
this, the decree against his heirs is referred to.
If such were the fact, under the law of Ohio the widow
would not be entitled to her dower; but the decree referred to
could not be considered as conclusive of the rights of the
widow. That decree may have been entered by collusion, or
under circumstances that would not bind the parties to it, if
the proper steps were taken to set it aside. It is presumed
that the widow, in setting up her right of dower, woulfl be
permitted to show the nature of the title under which her husband claimed. This claim, therefore, may not be so destitute
of all merit and legal propriety, as the counsel for the complainants seem to consider it.
But the most decisive objection to the decree against
Powell's heirs is, it is contended, that it does not vest the
legal title in Watts.
'A decree cannot operate beyond the state in which the jurisdiction is exercised. It is not in the power of one state to
prescribe the mode by which real property shall be conveyed
in another. This principle is too clear to admit of doubt; but
it is insisted, that the deed executed by the commissioner,
under the decree, by virtue of a statute of Kentucky, was a
legal conveyance in that state, and as such, by a statutory provision, is good in Ohio.
The words of the statute referred to are, "that all deeds,
mortgages and other instruments of writing for the conveyance
of lands, tenements and hereditaments, situate, lying and being
within this slate, which hereafter may be made and executed
and acknowledged or approved in any other state, territory or
country, agreeably to the laws of such state, territory or country, or agreeably to the laws of this state, such deed, mortgage
or other instrument of writing shall be valid in law."
The deed executed by the commissioner in this case, must
be considered as forming a part of the proceedings in the court

JANUARY TERM 1832.

401

'Watts et al. v. Waddle et al.]

of chancery. and no greater effect can be given to it, than if
the decree itself, by statute, was made to operate as a conveyance in Kentucky, as it does in Ohio.
The question then arises, whether, by a fair construction of
the above provision, it is in the power of a court of equity,
sitting in Kentucky, by force of its decree, to transfer real
estate in Ohio.
Can this.effect be given to such decree by this statute? It
is believed that no state in the union has subjected the real
property of its citizens to the exercise of such a power. Neither sound policy nor convenience can sustain this construction; and unless the language of the statute be imperative, no
court could sanction it.
The legislature of Ohio could never have intended by-this
provision, to place the real property of the citizens of that state
at the disposition of a foreign court. The language used'in
the act does not require such a construction. It refers to deeds
executed by individuals in any other state; and not to conveyances made by thie decree of a court of chancery. This is the
true import of the section, and it does not appear that the
courts of Ohio have given it a different construction. Thus
construed, it promotes the convenience of non-residents who
own lands in Ohio, and may desife to convey them; and in no
point of view can it operate injuriously to the interests of citizens of the state.
In this view it appears, that Watts did not acquire the legal
title from Powell's heirs under the deed of the commissioner;
and consequently' he was unable to convey the legal title to
Waddle.
The objections then to the deed tendered by Watts are,
that the husbands of the femes covert named in the decree,
were not made defendants, and that there.is no divestiture of
their right; that the right of dower remains in the widow of
Robert Powell; and that, at most, Watts derived only an
equitable estate under the decree against Powell's heirs.
These objections are deemed decisive by the court. Under
the deed tendered to Waddle, he could not defend himself
against an action of ejectment commenced by Powell's heirs
or by any other persons 'elaimiing under a legal conveyanbe
from them. A decree of a court in Ohio, having jurisdiction
VOL. VI.-.3 A

SUPREME COURT.
[Watts et al. v. Waddle et al-]

of the subject matter, is necessary to give a legal effect to the
decree in Kentucky. And even if this had been done, there
would still exist serious objections to the title.
The principle is too well settled to require any reference to
authority in support of it, that a vendor to entitle himself to a
specific execution of the contract must be able to make a clear
title. No court of chancery will force a doubtful title on the
vendee; and it is always necessary that the vendor should not
only show a proper degree of vigilance on his part, but that
in all things he had complied, or was able to comply, with the
contract when he seeks a specific execution of it.
Although in the present case a willingness has been shown
by Watts to convey to Waddle the land embraced in the contract, it is evidbnt that he cannot convey a good title. The
title is not only'shaded with doubt, but there are defects which
cannot be obviated, except by the action of a court of equity.
The contract which is the foundation of this suit, was entered
into by Lamb t6 get clear of a legal controversy; and ir his
assignee shall be compelled to accept a title radically defective,
he would be left in a worse condition than Lamb was in before the compromise. The consideration money has all been
paid, and the result to the assignee would be, should he be
compelled to receive the deed tendered, one or more law suits.
The court are therefore clear, that the complainants, for reasons.
stated, are not entitled to a specific execution of the contract.
A new ground of relief has been assumed in the argument
here, that was not, made in the circuit court; which is, that
although this court should be.of the opinion that a specific execution of the contract ought not to be decreed, still, the complainants are entitled to a decree for the rents and profits of
the land while it was in the possession of the defendants.
The defendants object to this relief, first, because the bill is
not so framed as to embrace it; and, secondly, because this
claim was adjusted in the action at law, or might have been
set up to lessen the demand of the plaintiff in that action.
There is no rule of court or principle of law, which prevents
the complainants from assuming a ground in this court, which
was not suggested in the court below; but such a course may
be productive of much inconvenience and of some expense.
Although there is no specific prayer in the bill to be paid the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Watts et al. v. Waddle-et al.]

rents and profits, yet the court think that, under the general
prayer, this relief may be granted. Under this prayer, any
relief may be given for which the basis is laid in the bill. In
this case the possession of the land by the defendants is alleged, and the demand for rents and profits would result from
this fict.
There is no pretence that this demand was taken into view
.in the action at law. As it consisted of upliquidated damages,
it, was not a proper subject for an offset; and it appears that
the judgment at law was rendered for the consideration motiey
and interest.
That part of the decree of the circuit court which refused a
specific execution of the contract, is affirmed; but in order to
afford relief for the rents and profits, the decree dismissing the
bill is opened, and the cause remanded for further proceedins.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Ohio, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof,
it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by this Court, that that
part of the decree of the said circuit court in this cause which
refused a specific execution of thie contract,'is affirmed; but in
order to afford relief for the rents and profits, it is further ordered and decreed by this Court, that the decree of the said
circuit court dismissing the bill is hereby opened, and that this
cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit
court for further proceedings to be had therein, according to
law and justice, and in conformity to the decree of this Court.
And it is further ordered, that each party pay his own costs
in this Court.

