JANUARY TERM 1832.

BANK OF THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFP IN ERROR V. JOHN
0. DuNx, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
It Is a well sttled principle, that no man who is a party to a negotiable instrument, shall be permitted byhis own testimony'to invalidate it. Having given
It the sanction of his name, and thereby added to the value of the instrument
by giving it currency, he shall not be permitted to testify that the note was
given for a gambling consideration, which would destroy its validity.
The case of Renner v. The Bank of Columbia, 9 Wheat. 587, cited and affirmed.
Parol evidence may be admitted to explain a written-agreement, where there is
a latent ambiguity; or a want of consideration may be shown in a simple contratt; or to defeat the plaintiff's action, the defendant may prove that the note
was algned to the plaintiff, in trust for the payee.
It is competent to prove by parol that a guarantor signed his name in blank on
the back of a promissory note, and authorised another to write a sufficient
guarantee over it.
in Pennsylvania there is no court of chancery, and it is known that the courts in
that state admit parol proof to affect written contracts, to a greater extent than
is sanctioned in the states where a chanceryjurisdiction is exercised.
The liability of parties to a bill of exchange or promissory note, has been fixed on
certain principles, which are essential to the credit and circulation of such
paper. These principles originated in the convenience of commercial transactions, and cannot now be departed from.
An agreement by the president and cashier of the Bank of the United States,tbat
the indorser of a promissory note shall not be liable on his indorsement, does
not bind the bank. It is not the duty of the cashier and president to make
such contracts; nor have they the power to bind the bank, except in the discharge of their ordina6y duties. All discounts are made under the authority of
the directors, and it is for them to fix any conditions which may be proper in
loaning money.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for the county
of Washington, in the district of Columbia.
In the circuit court, the Bank of the United States institpted
an action of assumpsit against John 0. Dunn, as indorser of a
promissory note drawn by John Scott, in the following words:
"4$1000-Sixtydays after date I promise to pay John 0.
Dunn or order one thousand dollars for value received, negotiable and payable at the United States Branch Bank in Washington.

JOHN SCOTT.

Indorsed J. 0. Dunn.-Overton Carr."
The signatures of the parties to the note were admitted,
and notice of a demand of payment of the same at the Bank,

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Dunn.1

and of the non-payment, were proved to have been regularly
made and given.
The defendant offered as -a witness Overton Carr, the indorser of said note, who testified that before he indorsed the
same, he had a conversation with John Scott, the maker, and
was informed by him, that certain bank stock had been pledged, or was to be pledged, by Roger C. Weightman, as security
for the ultimate payment of the said note, and that there would
be no risk in indorsing it. 'That the witness then went into
the room of the cashier of the plaintiffs' office of discount and
deposit at Washington, and found there the cashier, and Mr
Thomas Swann the president of the said office, to whom he
communicated the conversation with Mr Scott, and from whom
he understood, upon his inquiry, that the names of two indorsers, residing in Washington, were required upon the said
note, as a matter if orm, and that he would incur no responsibility (or no risk) by indorsing the said note. He did not
recollect the conver-ation in terms, but such was the impression he received from it. That he went immediately to the
defendant and persuaded him to indorse the note, by representing to him that he would incur no responsibility or no risk
in indorsing it, as the payment was secured by a pledge of
stock, and to whom he repeated the conversation with Mr
Scott and the president and cashier. That no other person
was present at the conversation, the terms of which he does
not recollect; but that the impression he received from his
conversation with the president and cashier, and with Scott,
and which impression he conveyed to the defendant, was that
the indorsers of the said note would not be looked to for payment of it, until the security pledged had been first resorted
to, but that the said indorsers would be liable, in case of any
deficiency of the said security, to suppy the same. That
neither this witness nor Mr Dunn was at the time able to pay
such a sum, angd that both indorsed the note as volunteers, and
without any consideration; but under the belief that they incurred no responsibility (or no risk) and were only to put their
names upon the instrument for form's sake.. To which evidence the plaintiffs, by their counsel, objected, but the court
permitted it to go to the jury.
The plaintiffs then offered as a witness, Richard Smith, the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Bank of the United States v. Dunn.]

cashier of their office of discount and deposit aforesaid, who
was summoned on the part of the defendant, and who testified
that he has no recollection of the conversation mentioned by
the said Carr; but that no stock was ever pledged for the. payment of the said note. That Roger C. Weightman had given
to the said office a guarantee, that he would pay the said note,
in case the parties to the same should fail to do so, after all
legal and proper measures had been taken to procure the payment of it by them. That he is certain that nothing was said
either by him or by Mr Thomas Swann in his presence, as to
the indorsers not being held liable for the payment of the said
ihote. That it was contrary to the practice of the said office,
to take indorsers on notes who were not to be held liable.
That the president and himself conjointly, nor either of them,
were authorised to give an3 such exemption to indorsers,
or to determine who should be taken as indorsers on notes.
ThaL this was the province of the board of directors alone;
unless when they appointed a committee of the board for that
purpose. That the guarantee aforesaid was given by the said
Weightman after the note had been made and indorsed.
Mr Smith, upon cross examination, having stated that he
was a stockholder in the bank, the court rejected his testimony,
and instructed the jury that it was not'evidence.
The plaintiffs' counsel then offered to swear Mr Swann, who
had been summ~ned as a witness on the part of the defendapt;
but the defendant's counsel objected to his competency for the
same reason, vwhich objection the court sustained, to which
the said plaintiffs, by their counsel, excepted; and also to the
admission of the testimony of Mr Carr, and the rejection of
Mr Smith's testimony.
The jury found a verdict for the defendant, and judgment
in his favour was entered thereon.
The plaintiffs prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued i y Mr Lear and Mr Sergeant- for the
plaintiffs in error; and by Mr Coxe for the defendant.
For the plaintiffs in error it wts stated, that the principal
question for the decision of-the court was, whether the testimony of Mr Overton Carr was legal, and should have been
admitted.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Dunn.]

The object for which that testimony was introduced, was to
vary the contract entered into by himself and his co-indorser,
and to show another contract of an entirely different character.
It is a general and an important rule, that evidence of this
description will not be admitted to vary or explain a contract
in writing. The propriety of the rule is deduced from the
obscurity and uncertainty which would be thrown over all
such contracts, from the frailty of memory, and the uncertainty
of understanding the parties. This rule is sustained by a
number of decisions. 2 Stra. 955. 2 Camp. 205. 3 Camp.
57. 4 Camp. 127, 217. Skinner, 454. 1 Gow, 74. 8
Taunt. 92. 1 Chitty's Rep. 661. 9 Wheat. 587. 7 Mass.
238. 3 Dall. 415-1 Peters's Condensed Rep. 193.
It is admitted that there are exceptions to thid rule: latent
ambiguity is an exception: so also, as to the consideration in a
deed, when the question was whether the receipt was conclu.
sive evidence of payment. The decisions of the courts of the
different states. of the union are divided. Maine, Maryland,
North Carolina on one side; Massachusetts, New York and
Pennsylvania on the other. The cases are collected in a note
to 3 Starkie on Evidence, (Am. Ed.) 1001, 1002,
If the deed recite a *particular consideration, and "other
good considerations," it may be shown what they were: but,
in general, consideration cannot be denied; nor a different
consideration be proved. That would invalidaLe the contract.
The question for the consideration of'the court is, whether this
parol evidence shall be admitted to prove a different contract.
The Pennsylvania authorities, upon which it it claimed to introduce such evidence, are to be considered as affected by the
absence of a court of chancery in that state. The law of Pennsylvania as to parol evidence is peculiar, and in the case of
Hurst v. Kirkbride, 1 Yeates, 139, the judges express their
dissatisfaction with it. Cited, Whart. Digest, 270, for thb
Pennsylvania cases.
The reason for the admission of such evidence, does not apply to contracts by the operation of law. 4 Wash. C. C. Rep.
480. 5 Serg. & Rawle, 353.
Mr Coxr,

for the defendant.

The object of the evidence

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Bank of the United States v. Dunn.]

of Mr Carr was not to render the note void at its inception;
in such a case the party to the note would not be a witness.
Parol evidence is admissible when it does not go to contradict
or vary the original contract. There is no written contract of
the indorsers of the note; the contract arises from the legal
implication of his being an indorser. What is the legal effect
of a bla~k indorsement? It is only an authority to fill it up
according to the agreement of the parties, and to the authority
so given.- All the cases agree, that as between the parties, a
total want of consideration, or a partial failure of consideration
may be shown. 1 Serg. & Rawle, 663. 4 Wash. C. C. Rep.
480.
Upon these principles the evidence was legal. This was
the case of security in trust for the benefit of the indorsers, and
parol evidence to show the trust was proper.
Mr Justice M'LAx delivered the opinion of the Court.
In the circuit court for the district of Columbia, from which
this cause is brought by writ of error, the plaintiffs commenced their action on the case, against the defendant, as indorser of a promissory note. The general issue was -pleaded,
and at the trial the plaintiffs read in evidence the following
note:
$1000-SixW days after date, I promise to pay John 0.
Dunn, or order, one thousand dollars, for value received, negotiable and payable at the United States Branch Bank in
Washington.
JOHN SCOTT.

On the back of which was indorsed,
J. 0. Dulm.
OVERTON CARa.

The signatures of the parties were admitted, and proof was
given of demand at the bank, and notice to the indorsers.
The defendant then offered as a witness Overton Carri an
indorser of said note, who testified, that before he indorsed
the same, he had a conversation with John Scott, the maker,
and was informed by him, that certain bank stock had been
pledged, or was *to be pledged, by Roger C. Weightman, as
security for the ultimate payment of the said note, and that
there would be no risk in indorsing it. That the witness then

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Dunn.]

went into the room of the cashier of the plaintiffs' office of discount and deposit at Washington, and found there the said
cashier, and Thomas Swann the president of the said office; to
whom he communicated the conversation with Air Scott, and
from vhom he understood, upon inquiry, that the names of two
irdorsers, residing in Washington were required upon the
said note, as a matter of form; and that he would incur no
responsibility (or no risk) by indorsing the said note. He
does not recollect the conversation in. terms, but such was the
impression he received from it.
That he -went immediately to the defendant, and persuaded
him to' indorse'the note, by representing to him, that bp
would incur no responsibility, or no risk, in indorsing it, as
the payment Was secured by a pledge of stock; and to whom
he repeated 'the conversation with Mr Scott, and said president and cashier. That no person was present at the conversation, the terms of which he does not recollect; but that the
impression he received from this conversation with the aforesaid president and cashier, and with the said Scott, and which
impression he conveyed to the defendant, was, that the indorsers of said note would not, be looked to for payment, until
the security pledged had been first resorted to; but, that the
said indorsers would be liable in case of any deficiency of the
said security to supply the same. That neither this witness,
nor Mr Dunn, was at the time able to pay such a sum, and
that both indorsed the note as volunteers and without any
consideration; but under the belief that they incurred no responsibility (or no risk), and were only to put their names to
the paper for form sake.
To which evidence the plaintiffs, by their counsel, objected,
but the court permitted it to go to the jury.
The plaintiffs examined as a witness Richard Smith, the
cashier, whose testimony was overruled: and then Thomas
Swann, the president of the bank, was offered as a witness and
rejected; it appearing that they were both stockholders in the
bank. To this decision of the court, a bill of exceptions was
taken by the plaintiffs; and exception was also taken to the
evidence of Overton Carr.
On this last exception, the plaintiffs rely for a reversal of

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Bank of the United States v. Dunn.]

the judgment of the circuit court. And, first, the question as
to the competency of this witness is raised.
He is not incompetent, merely from the fact of his name
being indorsedl on the bill. To exclude his testimony, on this
ground, he must have an interest in the result of the cause.
Such interest is not apparent in this case; and any objection
which can arise from his being a party to the bill, goes rather
to his credibility than his competency.
But it is a well settled principle, that no man who is a party
to a negotiable note, shall be permitted, by his own testimony,
to invalidate it. Having given it the sanction of his name,
and thereby added to the value of the instrument by giving
it currency, he shall not be permitted to testify, that the note
was given for a gambling consideration, or under any other
circumstances which would destroy its validity. This doetrine is clearly laid down in the case of Walton et al. assignees
of Sutton v. Shelley, reported'in 1 Term Rep. 29u, and is
still held to be law, although in 7 Term Rep. 56, it is decided,
that in an action for usury, the'borrower of the money is a
competent witness to prove the whole case.
Several authorities are cited by the plaibtiff's counsel to
show that parol evidence is not admissible to vary a written
agreement.
In the case of Hoare and others v. Graham and another,
3 Camp. 56, the court lay down the principle, that "in an action on a promissory note or bill of exchange, the defendant
cannot give in evidence a parol agreement entered into when
it was drawn, that it should be renewed and payment should
not be demanded when it became due.
This court, in the case of Renner v. The Bank of Columbia,
9 Wheat. 587, in answer to the argument that the admission
of proof of the custom or usage of the bank would go to alter
the written contract of the parties, say, "if this is the light in
which it is to be considered, there can be no doubt that it
ought to be laid entirely out of view: for there is no rule of
law better settled, or more salutary in its application to contracts, than that which precludes the admission of parol evidence, to contradict or substantially vary the legal import of
a written agreement."
Parol evidence may be admitted to explain a written agreeVOL. VI.--H

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Dqnp.]

merit where there is a latent ambiguity; or a want of consideration'may be shown in a simple contract; or, to defeat the
plaintiff's action, the defendant may prove that the note was
assigned to the plaintiffT, in trust, for the payer. 6 Mass. 432.
It is competent to prove by parol that a guarantor signed his
name in blank, on the back of a promissory note, and authorised another to write a sufficient guarantee- over it. 7 Mass.
233.

To show in what cases parol evidence may be received to
ekplain a written agreement, and where it is not admissible,
the following authorities have beeb referred to. 8 Taun. 92.
1 Chit. 661. Peakes Qasesi 40. Gilbert's Rep. 154.
On the part of the defendant'scounse' it is contended, that
between parties and privies-to an instrument not under seal,
a want of considerafion in whole or in part may be shown.
That the indorsement in question was made in blank; and that
it is competent for the defendant to prove under what circumstances it was made. That if an assurance were given at the
time of the indorsement, that the names of the defendant and
Carr were only required as a matter of form, and that a guarantee bad been given for the payment of the note, so as to save
the indorsers from responsibility; it maybe proved, under the
rule which permits the promissor to go into the consideration
of a note or bill between the original parties.
In support of this position authorities are read from 5 Serg.
& Rawle, 363, and 4 Wash. C. C. Rep. 480. In the latter
case, Mr Justice Washington says, "the reasons which forbid
the admission of parol evidence to alter or explain written
agreements and other instruments, do not apply to those contracts implied by operation of law, such as that which the law
implies in respect to the indorser of a note of hand. The evidence *ofthe agreement made between the plaintiffs and defendants, whereby the latter were to be discharged on the happening of a particular event, was therefore properly admitted."
The decision in 5 Serg. & Rawle, wason a question somewhat
analogous to the one under consideration, except in the present
case .there is no allegation, of fraud, and the decision in that
cyse was made to turn in part, at least, on that ground.
In Pennsylvania there is no court of chancery, and it is
known that the courts ii that state admit parol proof to affect

JANUARY TERM 1832.
'Bank of the United Sate v. Dan.]

written contracts, to a greater extdnt than is sanctioned in the
states where a chancery jurisdiction is exercised. The rule has
been differently settled In this court,
The note in question was first indorsed by the defendant, to
Carr, and by him negotiated with the bank. It was discounted
on the credit of the rames indorsed upon the.note. Tli othe
legal presumption that arises from the transaction and if the
first inderser were permitted to proVe that there Was a secret
understanding between himself erl his assignees'that he should
not be held responsible for the payment of the' fiete would it
not seriously affect the credit of this description of paper?
Might it not, in many cases, operate as a fratid upon subsequent
indorsers?
The liability of parties to a bill of exchange or promissory
note, has been fixed on certain principles, which are essential
to the credit and circulation of such paper. These principles
originated in the convenience of commercial transactions, and
cannot now be departed from.
The facts stated by the witness Carr are in direct contradiction to the obligations implied from the indorsement of the
defendant. By his indorsement, he promised to pay the note
at maturity, if the drawer should fail to pay it. The only condition on which this promise was made, was, that a demand
should be made of the drawer when the note should become
due, and a notice given to the defendant of its dishonour. But
the facts'stated by the .witness would tend to show that no such
promise was made. Does not this contradict the instrument;
and would not the precedent tend to shake, if not destroy, the
credit of commercial paper. On this ground alone the exception would be fatal; but the most decisive objection to the evidence is, that the agreement was not made with those persons
who have power to bind the bank in such cases. It is not the
duty of the cashier and president to make such contracts; nor
have they the power to bind the bank, except in the discharge
of their ordinary duties.
All discounts are made under the authority of the directors,
and it is for them to fix any conditions which may be proper
in loaning money. If, therefore, the evidence were clear of
other legal objections, it could not have the effect to release the
defendant from liability. The assurances relied on, if made,

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Dunn.]

were not made by persons authorised to make them. The
bank is not bound by them; nor would it be bound if the
assurances had been made in so specific and direct a manner
as to create a personal responsibility on the part of the cashier
and president.
Upon a full view of the case, the court are clearly of the
opinion, that the evidence of Carr should have been overruled
by the circuit court; or they should have instructed the jury
that the facts proved were not in law sufficient to release the
defendant from liability on his indorsement. The judgment
of the circuit court must therefore be reversed, and a venire
de novo awarded.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record irom the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel; on consideration-whereof it is ordered
and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed;
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby iemanded to the
said circuit court, with directions to award a venire facias de
novo.

