666

SUPREME COURT.

STEPHEN LINDSEY AND

OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V.

THE LESSEE OF THOMAS

B.

-MILLER, DEFENDANT

IN

ERROR.
Ejectment. The plaintiff claimed the land in controversy, which was situated
in the Virginia military district, in the state of Ohio, under a patent from the
United States, dated 1 December 1824, founded on an entry and survey executed in the same year. The defendants offered in evidence a patent, issued
by the state of Virginia inMarch 1789, to Richard C. Anderson, for the same
land, which was rejected by the court; and they gave in evidence, an entry and
survey of the land made in January 1783, recorded on the 7th of April in the
same year, and proved possession for upwards of thirty years. The warrant
under which the defendants' survey was made, stated that the services for
which it issued were performed in the Virginia state line; and not on the
continental establishment. On the lstof March 1786, Virginia conveyed to
the United States the territory north west of the river Ohio, with the reserva.
tion of such a portron of the territory, ceddd between the rivers Sciota and
Little Miami, as might be required to make up deficiencies of land on the
south side of the Ohio, called the Green River lands, reserved for the Virginia
troops on continental establishment. The holders of Virginia warrants had
no right to locate them in the reservation, until the good land on the south
side of the Ohio was exhausted, and it was deemed necessary that Virginia
should give notice to the general government, when the Green River lands
were exhausted; which would give a right to the holders of warrants to locate
them in the district north of the Ohio. Lands could be entered in this district
only by virtue of warrants issued by Virginia to persons who had served three
-years in the Virginia line on the continental establishment.
In May 1800, congress authodsed patents to issue on surveys made under Virginia warrants issued for services on the continental establishment. warrants
issued by Virginia for services in her state line, gave no right to the holder to
make an entry in the reserved district.
The land in the possession of the defendant was surveyed under a warrant whicr
did not authorise the entry of lands in the reserved district. The possession
of the same did not bat the plaintiff's action.
It is a well settled principle, that the statute of limitations does not run against a
state. If a contrary rle were recognised, it would only be necessary for intruders on the public lands to maintain Their possessions until the statute of
limitations shall run, and they then would become invested with the title
against the government, and all persons claiming under it.
The entry and survey of the defendant were-made before the deed of cesionat the time the location was made, the land in the reserved district was not
liable to be appropriated in satisfaction of warrants granted by the state of
Virginia for military services in the state line.
No act of congress was passed subsequent to the deed of cession, which enlarged
the tights of Virginia to the lands in the military contract beyond the terms of
the cession. Longer time has repeatedly been given for locations, but no new
rights have been created. It would seem, therefore, to follow that when the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Lindsey and others v. The Lessee of Millei.j
act of 1S07 was passed for the protection of surveys, congress could have de.
signed to protect such surveys only as had been made in good faith; they could
not have intended to sanction surveys made without the shadow of authority,
or, what is the same thing, under a void authority.
It is essential to the validity of an entry that it shall call for an object notorious
at the time, arid that the other calls sfiall have precision. A survey, unless
carried into grant, cannot aid a defective entry against one made subsequently.
The survey, to be good, must have been made in pursuance of the entry.
To cure detects in entries and surveys, was the design of the act of 1807. It
was inlended to sanction irregularities which had occurred without fiaud, in
the pursuit of a valid title. In the passage of this act, congress could have
had no reference but to such titles as were embraced in the deed of ce;sion.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for the dis-

trict of Ohio.
This was an ejectment in the circuit court of Ohio, instituted
by the defendants in error for the recovery of a tract of land
situated in the Virginia military district in the state of Ohio.
The title of the plaintiff's lessor was derived from a patent
issued by the United States, dated the 1st day of December
1824, for the premises in controversy; of which the defendants
were in possession.
On the trial, the defendants offered in evidence the copy of
a survey, bearing date the 5th of January 1788, recorded on
the 7th of April in the same year. The entry and survey,
which comprehended the land in dispute, were in the name
of Richard C. Anderson, and the latter purported to be made
for four hundred and fifty-four acres of land, part of a military
warrant, No. 2481, on the Ohio river, on the north-west side,
&C.
The, defendants then read in evdence the act of congress of
the Od of March 1807, authorizing patents for land located and
surveyed by certain Virginia revolution warrants, and the
.ict, amending the same, passed in March 1823. They also
offered in evidence the deposition of James Taylor, to prove
that the defendants had been in possession of the premises f6r
upwards of thirty years, which deposition was admitted by the
court.
The plaintiff then offered evidence to prove that the war-rant, on which the defendants' survey was predicated, was
issued by the state of Virginia on the 12th of February in the
year I 784,for erniees performed in the Virginiastate line,

SUPREME COURT.
[Lindsey and others v. The Lessee of Miller.]

and not in the continental establishment. The defendants objected to this evidence, but the court overruled the objection,
and permitted the same to go to the jury. The defendants,
by their counsel, then moved the court to instruct the jury
that, if they believed that the survey under which the defendants claim was founded on the warrant so admitted in evidence
by the court, it did not render the survey void; but that the
survey and possession, under the acts of congress referred to,
constituted a sufficient title to protect the defendants in their
possession. The court refused to give the instruction, and
directed the-jury, that, if they believed the survey of the defendants was founded on the warrant offered in evidence by
the plaintiff, then that the survey was void; and that the survey and entry, together with the possession of the defendants,
were no legal bar, under the acts of congress aforesaid, to the
plaintiff's right of recovery.- They further requested the
court to instruct the jury, that, if they believed the defendahits
had the uninterrupted possession of the premises for more than
twenty-one years since the commencement of the act of limitations in the state of Ohio, and before the commencement of
this suit, that then the defendants had a title by possession;
unless the plaintiffs canre within some one of the exceptions
of the statute. The court refused: to give such instructions.
They further requested the court to instruct the jury, that, if
they believed, the defendants were innocent purchasers without notice of the warrant offered in evidence by the plaintiff,
that the defendants were entitled to a verdict. The court refused to give such instructions.
To these proceedings of the court the defendants excepted;
and a verdict and judgment having been rendered for the
plaintiff, they prosecuted this writ oferror.
The case was argued by Mr Ewing and Mr Corwin, for
the plaintiffs in error; and by Mr Leonard and Mr Doddridge,
for the defendant.
The only question argued before the court was that which
had reference to the validity of the tile derived by the plaintiffs in error, the defendants below, under the entry and survey in the name of Richard C. Anderson. The counsel for
the plaintiffs in error abandoned the point made in the circuit

JANUARY TERM

1S32.

[Lindsey and others v. The Lessee of Miller.]

court, that they were entitled to the benefits of the statute of
limitations.
For the plaintiffs in error it was argued, that the plaintiffs'
title was protected by the act of congress of March 3, 1807.
That act was made to protect possessions against entries under
certain descriptions of warrants; to prevent an entry or location on tracts for which patents had issued, or surveys had been
made. It was admitted that there must have been a survey
by some person, acting in an official capacity. The party
claiming must show a colour of title; and that has been shown
by the entry and survey ifi this case. There is no distinction
under the law between surveys which were void and voidable.
These terms are of very indefinite import, and the Application
of the act cannot turn upon them.
The cases of Anderson's lessee v. Clarke, 1 Peters, 636,
and of Hoofuagle v. Anderson, 7 Wheat. 212, sustain the
principles claimed by the plaintiffs in error. When in 1807
congress passed the law, they must be presumed to have legislated on the then existing state of things. It was then well
known that there were lands held under claims drawn under
surveys made for services in the Virginia state line. It must
be presumed the act was intended to apply to those cases.
The equities of both classes of claimants were the same; both
were meritorious; and the powers of congress extended to
both. In 1825, congress passed a law in precise accordance
with the act of 1807, after the decision of the court in Hoofnagle v. Anderson, in 1 22, relating to Virginia state warrants.
There is nothing appearing on dhe face of the survey, under
which the plaintiffs in error held the land, showing that their
title below was derived under a warrant for services in the
state line: nor is it open to inquiry whether the surveyor was
legally authorized to make the survey.
The plaintiffs in error held asbona fide purchasers tinder Anderson's title: they are purchasers without notice.
The ca3e of Miller and others v. Kerr and others, 7 Wheat.,
1, and the dases cited for the defendant in error have no application to this case. The law of 1807 was not in the view of
the court in the dedision of these cases.
Th limitation upon claims intended to be brought within

SUPREME COURT.
[Lindsey an others v. The Lessee of Miller.]

the act of 1807, extends in terms to such a warrant as the
plaintiffs'. The meaning of the terms "patent" and "survey,"
is decided in the case of Hoofnagle v. Anderson; and in that
case, the survey was under a state line warrant.
Mr Leonard and Mr Doddridge, for the defendant in error,
contended that the act of congress upon which the plaintiffs
rely$ was intended to protect informal or imperfect entries or
surveys under continental warrants, and not such as were
absolutely void; such as surveys made under state line warrants.
The surveys made on the ground, were to be protected when
made under proper warrants.
This construction is established in the cases reported in
Hard. Reports, 348, 358, 359.
In Miller and others v. Kerr and others, 7 Wheat. 1, this
court decided, that as there was no reservation whatever of
these lands in favour of the bounties due to the state line, no
title could be acquired in virtue of such service. They add,
the same principle was asserted by the court in the case of
Polk's lessee v. Wendall; and we think it too clear to be controverted. The question upon which the court felt difficulty
in Miller's case, was the admission of evidence questionihg the
validity of the warrant, which expressly recited, that the land
was "due in'considerationof services for three years as a
lieutenant of the Virginia continentalline." They determined in favour of admitting this evidence, because they say,
"until the consummation of the title by grant, the person q
who acquire an equity, hol a right subject tot examination.
The validity of every document is then open to examination,
whatever the law may be after the emanation of a patent."
The force of this decision, as applicable to this case, is in no
respect impugned by the case of Hoofnagle v. Anderson,
susequently decided, and reported in 7 Wheat. 212. In this
latter case the party was protected by his patent, which was
issued before the making of his adversary's entry. In Miller's case, the party claiming under a warrant, in the state
lne, did not hold an operative patent. He held the elder
entry and survey. The other party, having the senior patent,
held the legal title. Consequently the party stood upon his
entry aud survey, which was open to examination. In this

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Lindsey and others v. The Lessee of Miller.]

case, the plaintiffs in error, having no legal grant, stand also
upon their entry and survey: and upon the doctrine of Miller's
case. these confer no title whatever.
In the Lessee of Anderson v. Clarke and Ellison, 1 Peters,
628, it was considered what description of survey protected
land from entry under the law of March 2, 1S07. The question presented in that case was, whether an entry and survey
upon a warrant previously satisfied, was protected. The general principle was not decided; the court being of opinion that
the particular circumstances and relations of the parties connected with the entries operated to protect them.
No doctrine is better settled than that a survey without an
entry is void; none, than that an entry without a warrant to
authorise it, is void. If the act of March 2, 1807, can be
made to protect this survey, it protects that which before the
passqge of the law, was absolutely void-as much so as an entry made without reference to any warrant. The object of the
law was to protect bona fide entries and surveys, made upon
warrants capable of appropriating the land, but defective in
sone of th6 requisitcs specified in the law. This was a prudent and parental object. But it ought never to be construed
as protecting that which originated in positive wrong, and unauthorised encroachment upon the rights of others.
Whatever might have been the original rights and equities
of the two classcs of claimants, and however true it may be,
as suggested by the chief justice, in Hoofnagle v. Anderson,
"that the rights of the state officers were not suffieiently re,,pected when the legislature omitted to insert them, as well as
their brethren, of the continental line, in the reservation for
military warrants;" it is certain that that omission limited and
concluded their rights. An entry specifying that it was made
upon a warrant in the state line, and a survey and patent containing the same specification, would be mere nullities; because
all were contrary to law, and unauthorised upon the face of
them. It is only where prima facie every thing is legal, that
the grant appropriates the land: until the grant issues to shut
up all hiTqiry into intermediate proceedings, the validity of
both entry and survey depends upon the warrant. If that
confer no authority, the entry ard survey originate no right.
Surely the act of March 2, 1807, was intended to protect

SUPREME COURT.
rLindsey and others v. The Lessee of Miller.]

existing rights, and not to be made the foundation of new
ones. Yet such must be its operation if it protect the survey
in question.

Cited also, Swann's Collection of Ohio Land Laws, 121; 5
Cranch, 234; 7 Wheat, 212; 9 Wheat. 480.
Mr Justice M'LAw delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error brought to reverse a judgment of the
circuit court, for the district of Ohio. The plaintiff in the
court below prosecuted an action of ejectment to recover possession of four lundred and fifty and a half acres of land, lying
in what is called the Virginia military district, and known by
entry numbered twelve thousand four hundred and ninety-five.
Stephen Lindsey and others were made defendants; and
were proved to be in possession of the lard in controversy
On the trial, the plaintiff exhibited a patent for the land,
bearing date the 1st December 1824, which was founded on
an entry and survey executed in the same year.
The defendants offered in evidence a patent issued by the
commonwealth of Virginia, in March 1789, to Richard C.
Anderson, for the same land, which was rejected by the court.
They then gave in evidence an entry and purvey of the land,
made in January 17S3, which were duly recorded on the 7th
of April in the same year; and proved possession for upwards
of thirty years.
The plaintiff then offered in evidence the warrant on which
the entry and survey of the defendants were made; accompanied by proof, that the military services for which said
warrant issued, were performed in the Virginia state line, and
not on the continental establishment. This fact was apparent
on the face of the warrant. To the admission of this evidence
the defendants objected.
The defendants then requested thz court to instruct the
jury, that the uninterrupfed possession for more than twentyone years, was a bar to the plaintiff's recovery. That thi."
possession, under the entry and survey before stated, ought to
protect them against the title of the plaintiff. The court
refused to give the instructions; on which ground, and because
the court admitted the evidence offered by the plaintif, which

JANUARY TERM 1S32.
[Lindsey and others v. The Lessee of Miller.]

was objected to by the defendants, a bill of exceptions was
taken; which presents to this court the above questions.
That the possession of the defendants does not bar the plaintiff's action, is a point too clear to admit of much controversy.
It is a well settled principle, that the statute of limitations
does not run against a state. If a contrary rule were sanctioned, it would only be necessary for intruders upon the
public lands, to maintain their possessions, until the statute of
limitations shall run; and then they would become invested
with the title against the government, and all persons claiming under it. In this way the public domain would soon be
appropriated by adventurers. Indeed it would be, utterly impracticable, by the use of any power within the reach of the
government, to prevent this result. It is only necessary,
therefore, to state the case, in order to show the wisdom and
propriety of the rule that the statute never operates against
the government.
The title under which the plaintiff in the ejectment claimed,
emanated from the government in 1824. Until this time,
there was no title adverse to the claim of the defendants.
There can, therefore, be no bar to the plaintiff's action.
To understand the objection to the validity of the defendants' title, under their entry, survey and patent, it will be
necessary to advert to the conditions on which the district of
country, within which the location was made, was ceded by
Virginia to the United States.
By her deed of cession, which was executed in behalf of the
commonwealth by her delegates in congress in 1784, Virginia conveyed to the United States the territory north west
of the river Ohio, with certaih reservations and condition.,
among which was the following: "cthat in case the quantity of
good land on the south east side of the Ohio, upon the waters
of the Cumberland river, and between the Green river and
Tennessee river, which have been reserved by law for the
Virginia troops on continental establishment, should, from the
North Carolina line bearing in further upon the Cumberland
lands than was expectcd, prove insufficient for their legal
bounties; the deficiency should be made up to the said troops
in good lands, to be laid off between the rivers Sciota and Little
Miami, on the north west side of the river Ohio; in such
VoL. VI.-4 K

SUPREME COURT.
tLindsey and others v. The Lessee of Millcr.]

proportions as have been engaged to them by the laws of
Virginia."
From this condition it is clear, that until the good land was
exhausted in the district of country named, the holders of
Virginia warrants had no right to locate them in the above
reservation. This is the cobstruction given by congress to the
deed of cession, as appears from a resolution adopted by them
on the subject. It was also deemed necesE:ry, that Virginia
should give notice to the general government, when the Green
river lands were exhausted, which would give a right to the
holders of warrants to locate them in the district north of
the Ohio.
Lands could be entered in this district only by virtue of
warrants issued by Virginia, to persons who had served three
years in the Virginia line, on the continental establishment.
In May 1800, by an act of congress, the proper officer was
authorised to "issue patents on surveys which have been, or
may be made within the territory'reserved by the state of
Virginia, north-west of the river Ohio, and being part of her
cession to congress, on warrants for military services issued
in pursuance of any resolution of the legislature of that state,
previous to the passing of that act, in fa;'oui of personls who
had served in the Virginia line on the continental establishment."
Several laws-were subseouently passed in relation to this
reservation, and to the rights of warrant holders; in all of
which, a reference is made to warrants issued for services performed on the continental establishment. This was in conformity to the deed of cession; and, although not necessary,
was deemed proper, i'n
giving time, to locate warrants in this
district, in order "to prevent the semblance of right from being
acquired by virtue of locations made on other warrants.
It was known that Virginia had issued other military warrants for services in her state line, which gave no right to the
holder to make an entry in the above district.
In the act of the 2d of MArehi 1807, to extend the time for
locating military warrants in the reserved district, and for
otler purposes, it is provided, " that no locations within the
above mentioned tract, shall, after the passing of that act, be
made on tracts of land for which patents had been previously

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Lindsey and others v. The Lessee of Miller.]

issued, or which had been previously surveyed; and any patent
obtained contrary to the provisions of that act, was declared to
be null and void."
As by the deed of cession the fee to this district passed to
the United States, the patents for lands entered and surveyed
within it, necessarily emanated from the general government.
It is therefore clear, that the circuit court did not err in rejecting, as evidence, the patent which was issued by Virginia
for this land several years subsequent to the deed of cession.
But the defendants below rely upon their survey, as being
protected by the act of 1807. This is the main point in the
case, and it becomes necessary fully to consider it.
The entry and survey of the defendants were made before
the deed of cession, but it is not contended, that, at the time
this location was made, the land within this district, under the
laws of Virginia, was liable to be appropriated in satisfaction
of warrants granted by the state for military services in the
state line. The fact, therefore, of this location having been
made, while the fee of this district remained in Virginia, cannot give it validity, as the entry was not mdde in pursuance of
the laws of Virginia.
By the act of 1807, any patenkt is declared to be void that
shall be issued on an entry of land which had been previously
patented or surveyed. This language is general, and literally
applies to all surveys which had been previously made, whether
made with or without authority. Could congress have designed by this act to protect surveys which had been made without
the semblance of authority. If an intruder, without a whrrant,
had marked boundaries in a survey, either large or small, would
it be protected under the act. When the object and scope of
the act are considered, and other laws which have been enacted on the same subject, and the deed of cession are referred to;
it would seem that much difficulty canfiot be felt in giving a
correct construction to this provision.
In making the cession, Virginia only reserved the right of
satisfying warrants issued for military services in the state line,
on the continental establishment. Warrants of no other description, therefore, could give any right to the holder, to any
land in this district. In all the acts subsequently passed, giving further time for the location of warrants in this reservation,

SUPREME COURT
[Lindsey and others v. The Lessee of Miller.]

there is a reference to the kind of warrants which may be
located. And in the act of 1807, the "1officers and soldiers of
the Virginia line on continental establishment, are named as
entitled to land in the district."
No act of congress passed subsequent to the deed of cession,
whic'h enlarged the rights of Virginia to this district, beyond
the terms of the cession. Longer time has repeatedly bten
given for locations, but no new rights have been created. It
would seem, therefore, to follow, that when the act of 1807
was passed for the protection of surveys, congress could have
designed to protect such surveys only as had been made in
good faith. They could not have intended to sanction surveys
made without the shadow of authority, or which is the same
thing, under a void authority.
It is known to all who are conversant with land titles in this
district, that the mode pursued in making entries and surveys
under the Virginia land law, gave rise to the most ruinous
litigations. The docket of this court contains abundant evidence of this fact. By the law of 1807, congress intended to
lessen litigation.
'It is essential to the validity of an entry, that it shall call
for an object notorious at the time, and that the other calls
shall have precision. A survey, unless carried into grant,
cannot aid a defective entry against one made subsequently.
The survey, to be good, must be made in pursuance to the
entry.
To cure defects in entries and surveys was the design of the
act of 1807. It was intended to sanction irregularities. wlhich
haa occurred without fraud, in the pursuit of a valid tile. In
the passage of this act, congress could have had no reference,
but to such titles as were embraced by the deed of ccssion.
The ease of Miller and others v. Kerr and others, reported
in 7 Wheaton, 1, is cited by the defendants' counsel. In this
case the register of the land office of Virginia, had, by mistake,
given a warrant for military services in the contitiental line,
on a certificate authorising a warrant for services in the state
line. An equity acquired under this warrant was set up
against a legal title sdbsequently obtained; but the court sustained the legal title. They conside'ed the gister a ministerial officer, and that his official acts, as such, might be in-

JANUARY TERM 18,2.
[Lindsey and others v. The Lessee of Miller.]

quired into. This entry was made subsequent to the deed of
cession, and the court seemed to think if this territory had not
been ceded, there would have been great force in the argument, that as the holder was entitled to the land for services
rendered, and as, by the mistake of the officer, he had been
prevented from locating the warrant in Kentuchy, and as no
provision existed by which his claim could be satisfied; if the
entry made should not be sustained, that under such, circumstances it should be held valid. The case was a hard one, but
the court were clear, that by virtue of the warrant thus issued
no right could be acquired in tfie Virginia reservation.
The case of Hoofnagle and others v. Anderson, 7 Wheat.
212, is strongly, relied on as a case, if not directly in point,
tlat has at least a strong bearing on the question under consideration. In that case the court decided, that a patent is a
title from its date, and conclusive against all those whose rights
did not commence previous to its emanation. The entry on
which th;s patent was founded was made in the Virginia reservation, by virtue of a warrant which was in fact issued for
services in the state line; but it was stated on its face to have
been issued for services on the continental establishment.
This case would have been similar to the one under consideration, if the patent had not been issued; but the decision
turned against the subsequent locator, on the ground that the
patent appropriated the land.
The court say, that the "principle is well settled, that a
patent is unassailable by any title commenced after its emanation." The case of Jackson v. Clark et a]. 1 Peters, 628, it
is contended, bears a close analogy to the one under examination. That was a case where the act of 1807 was decided to
protect a survey, although made on a warrant which had been
previously located and not withdrawn. But the court sustained the survey, on the ground that it was not a void act,
thPugh it might be irregular. That to the purchaser of the
survey, there was no notice of irregularity, much less of fraud.
The warrant was valid, and upon its face authorised the
entry. The entry had been regularly made on the books of
the surveyor, and the survey had been executed by a regular
officer; and the only objection to the validity of the proceedings was, that the warrant had been previously located. This

SUPREME COURT.
[Lindsey and others v. The Lessee of Miller.]

location, the court said, might be withdrawn, and that would
remove all objections to the subsequent proceedings. And
they intimate that the powers of a court of chancery were sufficient tohave compelled the original locator to withdraw the
first entry, or enjoin him from the use of it, so as to remove
the objections to the second entry. Under all the circumstances of the case, they consider that the second survey was
protected from subsequent entries by the act of 1807.
They say, "if it be conceded that this provision in the above
act was not intended for the protection of surveys which were
in themselves absolutely void, it must be admitted that it was
intended to protect those which were defective, and which
might be avoided for irregularity."
There can be no doubt that congress did intend to protect
surveys which had been irregularly made, and it is equally
clear that they did not design to sanction void surveys. A
survey is void, unless made under the authority of a warrant;
and it need not be stated again, that the warrant under which
the survey of the defendants in the circuit court was made, gave
no right to the holder to appropriate land north of the Ohio.
'Neither the entry nor the survey is a legal appropriation of
the land. The claimant is only vested with the equitable
estate, until his entry and survey have been carried into grant.
This court decided, in the case of Taylor-s Lessee v. !Myers,
7 Wheat. that the act of 1807 did not protect a survey from
which the entry had been withdrawn.
In the argument, it was insisted that the entry and survey
having been.made in the name of Richard C. Anderson, the
principal surveyor, were void under the laws of Virginia:
that by those laws he was prohibited from making an entry
in his own name.
As thete are other points in the cause on which the decision
may rest, it is unnecessary to investigate this one farther than
to observe, that, under other circumstances, it might be entitled
to serious consideration.
This is a case of great hardship on the part of the defendants below; and regret is felt that the principles of law which
are involved in the cause do not authorise a reversal of the
judgment" given by the circuit court.

JANUARY TERM 1832.

679

[Lindsey and others v. The Lessee of Miller.]

The judgment must be affirnmed with costs, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings.
Mr Justice BALDWIN dissented, and gave an'opinion in
writing; which was not delivered to the reporter.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Ohio, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof,
it is ordered and adjudged by this Court4 that the judgment of
the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed with costs, and that this cause be and the same is
hereby remanded to the said circuit court for further proceedings to be had therein according to law and justice, and in
conformity to the judgment of this court.

