SUPREME COURT.

NATHANIEL
IN

ERROR

Cox,

NATHANIEL AND JAMES DICK, PLAINTIFFS

V. THE

UNITED

STATES,

DEFENDANTS

IN

ERROR.
The United States instituted a suit in the district court of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana, according to the practice of that state,
upon a joint and several bond given by a navy agent and his sureties, and a
verdict and judgment were entered in favour of the plaintiffs against the three
defendants; which entry stated the sums for which the defendants were
jointly and severally liable to the United States, according to the judgment.
On the trial, one of the defendants took a separate defence; and he afterwards
prosecuted a writ of error to this court, without joining the other two defendants in the writ. The other defendants also issued a separate writ of error;
and the plaintiffs in error in each writ gave several appeal bonds. The court
overruled a motion to dismiss the cause: the ground of the motion being, that
but one writ of error could be sued out; and that all the defendants should have
united in the same.
The petition by which the suit on the bond was instituted, states the debt to be
fifteen thousand five hundred and fifty-five dollars, and eighteen cents. The
verdict of the jury was for twenty thousand dollars; and upon this a judgment
was entered up against the estate of two of the obligors in the bond,jointly
and severally for twenty thousand dollars, and a judgment against two of the
lega' representatives of one of the obligors for ten thousand dollars each.
"Upon no possible ground can this judgment be sustained."
The principles which have been established by the decisions of this court relative
to the admission of treasury transcripts in evidence, in suits by the United
States against public officers.
A bond was given by the navy'agent at New Orleans and his sureties to the
United States, conditioned that he should faithfully account for all public
moneys received by him, &c. The sureties to the bond having been sued on
the same, after his insolvency and' decease, claimed that the United States
were bound to divide their action, and take judgment against each surety for
his proportion of the sum due, according to the law of Louisiana; considering
it a contract made there, and to be governed in this respect by the law of that
state. Held, that the liability of the sureties must be governed by the rules
of the common law; the accountability of the principal being at the city ot
Washington, to the treasury of the United States; and the bond being joint ao
several, each is bound for the whole: and that the contribution between the
sureties is a matter with which the United States-have no concern,
The general rule of law is well settled, that the law of the place where the con.
tract'is made, and not where the action is brought, is to govern in enforcing
and expounding the contract; unless the parties have a view to its being executed elsewhere: in which case it is to be governed according to the law of the
place where it is to be executed.
Admitting the bond to have been Ognea at New Orleans, it is very clear that the
obligations imposed upon the parties thereby, looked for its execution to the
city of Washington. It is immaterial where the services as navy agent were

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.)
to be performed: his accountability for non-performance was to be at the seat
of government. He was bound to account, and the sureties undertook that
he should account for all public moneys received by him, with such officers of
the government of the United States as are duly authorised to settle and, adjust
his accounts. The bond is given with reference to the' laws of the United
States on that subject; and such accounting is required to be with the treasury
department at the seat of government; and the navy agent is bound by the
terms of the bond to pay over such sum as may be found due to the United
States on such settlement; and such paying over must be to the treasury department, or in such manner as shall be directed by the secretary. The bond
is therefore in every point of view in which it can be considered, a contract to
be executed at Washington; and the liability of the parties must be governed
by the rules of the common law.

ERROR to the district court of the United States, for the
eastern district of Louisiana.
On the 19th of October 1825, the district attorney of the
United States filed, in the district court of the United States
for the district of Louisiana, the following petition, and a copy
of a bond, on which the cause of action stated in the petition
was founded.
The petition of the United States, by their attorney, prosecuting within and for said district, respectfully states, that
Joseph H. Hawkins, late of New Orleans, navy agent of the
United States, now deceased, John Dick, late of New Orleans,
now deceased, and Nathaniel Cox, of the same place, on the
10th day of March in the year of our Lord 1821, were indebted to the United States in the sum of twenty thousand dollars, for the amount of their obligation in writing, sealed with
their seals, for the said sum, bearing date the said day and year,
and payable, jointly and severaljy, by them, their heirs, executors and administrators; as will appear by a certified copy
thereof hereunto annexed. To which said obligation a condition was annexed, wherein it was provided, that if the said
Joseph H. Hawkins should regularly account, when thereunto
required, for all public moneys that might be received by him,
from time to time, and for all public property committed to
his care, with such person, or persons, officer or officers of th6
general government of*the United.Slates as should be duly
authorised to settle and adjust his accounts; and should moreover pay over, as he might be directed, any sum or sums that
might be found due to the United States upon any such settlement or settlements; and should also faithfully discharge, in

SUPREME COURT.
[Cox and Dick Y. The United States.]

every respect, the trust reposed in him, then the said obligation should be void, else it should remain in force.
And th6 United States further state, that the said Joseph
H. Hawkins did not, in his lifetime, regularly account, as
aforesaid, for all-public moneys received by him, from time to
time, and for all public property committed to his care; and
did not pay over, as aforesaid, any sum or sums of money due
to the United States as aforesaid; and did not faithfully discharge, in every respect, the trust reposed in him, as aforesaid; but did, at his death, remain indebted to the United
States in a large balance of money, to wit, the sum of fifteen
thousand five hundred and fifty-three dollars eighteen cents,
for moneys, from time to time, since the date of the said obligation, received from the United States, as navy agent as aforesaid: by reason of all which, the condition of the said obligation hath become broken, and the said debt become due;
wherefore they pray process of summons against the legal representatives of the said Joseph H. Hawkins, deceased, and of
the said John Dick, deceased, and against the said Nathaniel
Cox; and after due proceedings had, that judgment may be
rendered against them for the said debt, with interest and costs.
J. W. SMrTH, Attorney U. S.
Copy of bond annexed to the petition.-Know all men by
these presents, that we, Joseph H. Hawkins, as principal, and
John Dick and Nathaniel Cox, as securities, are held and firmly
bound unto the United States of America, in the sum of twenty
thousand dollars, current money of the United States, to be
paid to the said United States, for which payment, well and
truly to be made and done, we bind ourselves, and each of us,
our and each of our heirs, executors, and administrators, in
the wholo and for the whole, jointly and severally, firmly by
these presents. Sealed with our seals, and dated this tenth
day of March, Anno Domini 1821.
The condition of the above obligation -is such, that if the
above bonded Joseph H. Hawkins shall regularly account,
when thereunto required, for all public moneys received by
him, from time to time, and for all public property committed
to his care, with-such person or persons, officer or officers, of
the government of the United States, as shall be duly authorised to settle and adjust his accounts, and shall, moreover, pay

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

over, as he may be directed, any sum or sums that may be
found due to the United States upon any such settlement or
settlements, and shall also faithfully discharge, in every respect, the trust reposed in him, then the above obligation to
be void and of no effect, otherwise to remain in full force and
virtue.
The bond was duly executed by the obligors, and then approved by the district attorney of the United States for 1he
Louisiana district. The copy was regularly certified from the
navy department.
Citations were issued from the office of the clerk of the
court on the 20th October 1827, &c. to "the legal representatives of J. H. Hawkins, deceased," "the legal representatives
of John Dick, deceased," "and to Nathaniel Cox;!' to appear
and answer, &c. The marshal returned non est inventus as
to the legal representatives of J. H. Hawkins," and "served
on the legal representatives of John Dick, deceased," and on
"Nathaniel Cox." The separate answer of Nathaniel Cox,
filed on the I1th of December 1825, stated, that he did sign
the bond stied upon as surety of the late J.H, Hawkins, navy
agent; but he denies that tl~e sum of $15,553 18 is due by the
sureties, as stated in the petition, but only $12,682 46; for this,
that since the decease of the said J. H. Hawkins, he has paid
on his account, and been allowed in credits at the treasury of
the United States, the sum of $7,317 54, deducting which from
the amount of said bond, $20,000, leaves the aforesaid sum of
twelve thousand six hundred and eighty-two dollars forty-six
cents.
And that, as between himself and his co-surety, he is entitled to a credit for this sum, $7,317 54, deducting which
from the amount of $10,000, or one half the penalty of said
bond, there will remain due by him the sum of $2,682 46,
and by his co-surety the remainder of the sum, viz. $10,000,
which apportionment he prayed may be made and allowed to
him as against his co-surety, with all other and further relief
whicl he may be entitled to.
On the 27th February 182S, on nmotion of the district attorney, and on giving the court to understand that Mrs Todd, a
surviving sister, and one of the heirs of John Dick, deceased,

resided out of the district, in the state of Virginia, the court

SUPREME COURT.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

ordtred that Levi Peirce, Esq., attorney of Nathaniel and
John Dick, two of the heirs of John Dick, deceased, be appointed curator, ad hoc, of Mrs Todd herein.
On the 3d March 1820, Nathaniel Cox filed a supplemental
answer, representing that the succession of his co-security,
John Dick, was solvent, and able to pay the debt claimed. He
demanded that the United States divide their action, reducing
their demand to the amount of the share and proportion due
by each surety.
On the 20th May 1828, Nathaniel and James Dick filed
their answer to the petition of the United States; that no amicable demand has been made according to law, and that they
are, therefore, not bound for any expenses of this suit; and
they further answer, that they are two of three heirs of J. Dick,
who have accepted the succession of said J. Dick, with benefit
of inventory; the third heir being Sarah Dick, wife of J. Todd,
of the state of Virginia, citizen: and that, therefore, they'are
in no event bound for more than two-thirds of any debt of said
J. Dick; that the debt now claimed, they deny is in any manner due by the estate of John Dick, but should the same be
proved, they say that they have not received more than four
thousand dollars of the estate of J. Dick, and are liable for no
more than two thousand dollars each, of which they pray
judgment and trial by jury; and that they may be dismissed
with, &a.
The court, on the 19th December 1829, on the plea of Nathaniel Cox for a division of the action, overruled the same.
The cause came on for trial before a jury on the 2d January
1830, when a "verdict for plaintiffs for twenty thousand dollars, being the amount of the bond," was rendered.
Bills of exceptions were tendered, and sealed by the court
on the trial; which stated, that "Nathaniel Cox offered to
prove, under the prayer of his answer, that his co-surety
should he decreed to contribute in payment, according to their
respective shares; that certain payments had been made in
diminution of the balance of said Hawkins, since his death,
and before the date of the transcript, produced in evidence by
the district attorney, by the said Cox; and for this purpose, offered in evidence a certain transcript from the treasury books,
duly certified; the introduction of said testimony was opposed

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

by the counsel for the heirs of John Dick, his co-surety; on
the ground that in this suit there could be no examination of
the rights of the sureties as between themselves; which objection being sustained by the court, the testimony was rejected."
And "that Nathaniel Cox also offered in evidence another
transcript from the books of the treasury, duly authenticated,
purporting to be a list of payments made and receipts taken,
and passed at tlie treasury of the United States, in the name of
said Joseph H. Hawkins, since the 30th September 1823, (it
having been previously shown that the said Hawkins died on
the first of October 1823) in support of the allegations in his
answer, that he had paid the su&a of $7,317 54, since the decease of said Hawkins, in his capacity of surety; the introduction of said testimony was opposed by the attorney of the
United States, on the ground that no credits could be allowed
but such as had been presented at the treasury, and refused;
which objection being sustained by the court, the evidence
was refused; and the same defendant having further offered
in evideice the account of said Joseph H. Hawkins, as navy
agent, with the Bank of the United States, in this city, during
the months of August and September, immediately preceding
his death, in support of his said plea, the attorney for the United
States objected to the introduction of the same, on the ground
that the same could not be evidence against the United States;
the court sustained, also, this objection, and overruled the testimony."
On the 11th January 1830, Nathaniel Dick and James Dick
filed a motion in arrest of judgment, stating that there was not
in the case the number of parties required by law, the other
heir not having filed any answer, or not being in court by
judgment by default; that the judgment cannot be against two
heirs for the whole amount due by John Dick, when it is on
record, by motion of the United States district attorney, that
there is another heir, to wit, Sarah Todd, the motion of the
said attorney being on the 27th February 1828, as extracted
from the 'record book: "on motion of the district attorney,
and on giving the court to understand that Mrs Todd, a surviving sister and one- of the heirs of John Dick, deceased, resident out of the district, to wit, in the state of Virginia, ordered, that Levi Peirce, Esq., attorney of Nathaniel Dick and
VOL. VI.-X

SUPREME COURT.
[COx and Dick v. The United States.]

James Dick, two of the heirs of John Dick, deceased, be ap,pointed curator, ad hoe, of the said Mrs Todd herein."
, The motion ia arrest of judgment was overruled by the
court; and on the 18th of January 1830, judgment was entered
in favour of the United States in the following terms:
"The United States v. Representatives of Hawkins et a].The court having maturely considered the motion in arrest of
judgment, now order that judgment be entered up, As of the
15th instant, against the estate of John Dick and Nathaniel
Cox, jointly and severally, for the sum of twenty thousand
dollars, with six per cent interest from the 2d day of January
1830, until paid, and costs of suit; and that judgment be entered up against Nathaniel Dick and James Dick for the sum
of ten thousand dollars each, with six per cent interest from,
2d January 1830, until paid, and the costs.
SAMMEL H. HARPEn, Judge U. S."
The defendants, on the 20th of January 1830, paid into
court the sum of twelve thousand six hundred and eighty-two
dollars forty-six cents, on account of the judgment.
Nathaniel Cox, on the 21st January 1830, issued a writ of
error to this court; and on the same day he filed an appeal
bond, conditioped to prosecute the same with effect. The
bond recited.that he had filed a petition, praying that a writ of
error may be all'wed to him from a certain, final judgment
rendered against him in the suit of the United States against
the heirs and representatives of Joseph H. Hawkins, the heirs
and representatives of John Dick, and Nathaniel Cox, in the
district court of the United States in and for the eastern district
of Louisiana.
The writ of error alleged that in the proceedings in the case
in the district court of Louisiana, "manifest error had intervened to the great damage of the said Nathaniel Cox."
Afterwards, on the 22d January 1S30, "Nathaniel Dick
and James" Dick, two of the heirs of John Dick .deceased,"
prayed a writ of error to this court which was awarded; and
an appeal bond was given by them on the 25th of January
1830, which recited that they "had. filed a petition, priying
that a writ of error may be allowed to them from a certain
final judgment'rendered against them in the suit wherein the
United States are plaintiffs;against the heirs and legal represen-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

tatives of Joseph H. Hawkins, the heirs and legal representatives of John Dick, and Nathaniel Cox, defendants, in the district court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana."
This writ of error stated that the court were informed that
in giving the judgment in the case' " manifest error had intervened" "cto the great damage of Nathaniel Dick and James
Dick, two of the heirs of said John Dick."
Separate citations were issued upon each writ of error.
Upon the first, the citation required the United States " to
show cause why the judgment rendered against Nathaniel Cox
should not be reversed." On the second, the' defendants in
error were required to show cause " why the judgment rendered against Nathaniel Dick and James Dick should not be
reversed."
The case, at an early day of the term, on the motion of Mr
Taney, attorney general of the United States, was dismissed;
no appearance having been entered for the plaintiffs. It was
afterwards reinstated, on motion of Mr Johnston, who appeared as the plaintiffs' counsel.
Afterwards, the attorney general of the United States moved
the court " to quash the writ of error in the cause, because all
the parties had not joined in the writ of error, the judgment
in the court below being joint and several; but had sued out
several writs of error."
Before proceeding to argue the motion, Mr Taney asked
the court, if his having, on a former day, appeared in the case
for the purpose of moving to dismiss the writs. of error, was
to be considered as a'general appearance. ,The court stated,
that they considered it a special appearance, for the purpose
of the motion only.
For the United States it was contended, that all the defendants should have united in the same writ of error. The judgment being joint and several, it must stand against all; unless
it should be reversed against all.
The defendant, Nathaniel Cox, made a separate application
for a writ of error, gave a separate bond, and issued a separate
citation, calling on the United States to sustain the validity of
the judgment of the district court against himself only. The

SUPREME COURT.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

other plaintiffs in error, Nathaniel and James Dick, also proceeded separately by writ of error, bond and citatiorr, and they
require the defendants in error "to show cause why the judgment against them shall not be reversed.))
Thus, therefore, the whole character of the case is changed,
when brought to this court. Here the proceedings are separate and distinct; the parties are different from those in the
joint proceedings below; they came here by different writs of
error; and call upon the United States to appear in this court
by different citations, and for separate purposes.
It is absolutely necessary in proceedings at the common law,
that all 'theparties to a judginent shall unite in the writ of error
to the superior court, unless, by regular process, they have been
severed. The writs of error by which the case is brought up
are not in the proper form. They state a separate judgment
to have been rendered in Louisiana, and the record shows a
joint and several judgment. Cited 9 Petersdorf's Ab. 10, note;
11 Wheaton, 414.
If the case can be brought up separately, one party may present it to this court at one time, and the other at another time.
The question is unlimportant in the final disposition of the
case, unless, if the writs of error are erroneous, the security
which is given in the court below will thereby be released;
and thus the United States be deprived of the benefit of the
appeal bond, the writs of error being a supersedeas.
Although the proceedings in the court of Louisiana are not
according to the common law while in that district, yet when
these proceedings 4re brougl, to this court, they must go on
according to the common law rule; and so the act of congress
considers the subject. Nor can the parties in such a case be
without remedy. If the usual forms of the common law in
cases of writs of error will not apply to such a case as this;
and the proceedings in the courts of Louisiana, being according to the civil law, require a different form of a writ of error
to meet the actual situation of the parties; this court has full
authority by law to -frame the proper and competent process.
For the plaintiffs in error, Mr Johnston of Louisiana stated,
that he felt no particular interest in this question, exrept as a
general rule of practice; inasmuch as the dismissal would not

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Cox nd Dick v. The United States.]

preclude the plaintiffs from bringing up the writ of error in
any form that might be prescribed, within the time allowed
by law. The law of congress does not prescribe the manner
of suing out a writ of error. It is therefore left to the rules
of 'practice, which the court may adopt, to facilitate the uniform regular administration of justice. No rule has been
established in this case.
The court in general refer to the laws and practice in England, not as law, but as a guide; as the evidence of what enlightened men have considered, in the country from which
we borrow our terms of law, as the best rules of practice.
It is true, by the laws of England, that all persons who may
be damnified by a judgment, may sue out a writ of error, even
those indirectly and remotely interested. It is true also as a
general rule, that all parties must join in a writ of error. But
if the parties do not or will not join, the court order a summons and severance; and that proceeding authorizes any party
to proceed in the writ. If the court therefore adopt the rule
that all must join, they' must also adopt the remedy of
ordering, in all proper cases, a severance of the parties; and this
makes the whole affair a mere matter of form.
It must be obvious, that in many cases all the parties will
not join in the appeal: sometimes they are satisfied with the
judgment; often they have no interest in reversing it. It will
sometimes occur that the judgment is favourable to one defendant, and unfavourable to the other: and in suits against several,
the chief question may be among the defdndants: and in the
case now pending the question was, whether a payment made
by one, should go to his credit or to the credit of all: and by
the laws of Louisiana, where the defendants may pray judgment against the plaintiff, a judgment may be rendered against
one defendant, while the other defendant may have judgment
against the plaintiff: in all these cases -the defendants have a
different and adverse interest, when there would be no motion
to appeal, and when even their own interest might be compromitted. The party interested in reversing the judgment only
will sue out a writ of error. The court cannot compel the
other party'to join, and justice could not be done if either party
could defeat the other of their legal rights. The aggrieved
party must be allowed to bring up the case, and if it is neces-

SUPREME COURT.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

sary to comply with obsolete forms, the court must decree a
severance.
But in this case all the parties are before the court. They
had separate grounds of defence, the court below allowed them
to sever in their answer: judgment was rendered against all in
solido; and separately, for the whole amount against two of the
defendants. They have both sued out a writ of error, so that
the only motion here should be to consolidate. The parties
have distinct grounds of error, and claim distinct remedies; but
the judgment may be reversed in whole or in part; it may be
good against one defendant, and erroneous as to the others.
The case of Williams v. Bank, in 11 Cranch, is not applicable, because Williams alone took up, the case; but even then,
I understand the court would have granted summons and
severance.
The reason assigned. for the English rule why an parties
must join, is, that a writ of error suspends execution; whibh is
not so here, where e:.ecution goes in all cases'against all those
who have not joined in the writ of error and given bond.
This must be a very important principle iri practice, and
ought to be settled. It is extraordinary that no such case has
heretofore occurred.
The object must be to have a reasonable ruie, a practicable
and convenient rule, that will facilitate the administration of
justice, that will advance the remedy by writ of error; and not
one calculated to defeat or obstruct the course of the laws'by
objections, merely technical, as to the forms of proceeding.
It will be found more convenient to adapt our proceedings
upon writ of error to the general practice of the state courts.
They pre more consonant to our system, a I better known to
the bench and the bar.
.The court overruled the motion to dismiss the writ of error.
The case afterwards came on for argument.
For the plaintiffs in error, the following errors in the proceedings and judgment were assigned.
1. The judgment is void, because no judgment could berendered against these parties under the general and indefinite
description "of the legal representatives of Joseph H. Hawkins and John Dick." The citation was not legal or valid,

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

and the return does not state on whom service was made, and
the truth of the return depends upon the marshal's knowledge
of the legal representatives.
It may be said this is cured by the appearance of the parties,
but J.and N. Dick deny that they are the only legal representatives, and the fact is admitted by the district attorney,
that they are not.
2. The judgment is erroneous, because the c6urt rejected
legal evidence, to wit: "a tianscript from the books of the
treasury, duly authenticated, purporting to be a list of payments made and receipts taken and passed at the treasury of
the United States," since the death of Hawkins, for seven
thousand three hundred and seventeen dollars fifty-four cents;
which deprived him of'.the means of showing that other.eredits, besides those stated in the transcript on which the suit
was brought, had subsequently gone to their credit, or that the
payments mad by Cox after the death of Hawkins ought to
have gone to t e credit of the bond, or to his half of it, or of
showing that the amount claimed in the petition was too large,
and thereby supporting his plea that he owed only twelve
thousand six hundred and eighty-two dollars forty-six cents,
and not fifteefi thousand five hundred and fifty-three dollars
eighteen cents.,
3. The judgment is erroneous because it is rendered for a
larger sum than is demanded in the petition.
4. Because it is rendered, first, in solido against the securities, and second, it is rendered against J.and N. Dick, each, for
ten thousand dollars, that is, after ajudgment against the parties
for the whole amount of the bond. There is also a judgment
against two only of the legal representatives of J.Dick for an
additional twenty thousand dollars: making in all forty thousand dollars, which is double the amount of the bond, and a
much larger sum than is claimed to be due.
5. Because the judgment is vague and void from uncertainty,
being rendered against "the estate of J Dick and Nathaniel
Cox, jointly and severally." Whereas the judgment ought
to have been against the persons, in their individual character,
who represent the estate of J.Dick.
G.Because the judgment, if rendered. against the legal representatives of John Dick, ought to have been against all the

184

SUPREME COURT.
LCoi and Dick v. The United States.7

heirs jointly, and *Mt against two of them, and not against
them separately, and then only for an amount inot exoeebna
the balance stated to be due to the government, and not exceeding the amount which they had received from the estate
of John Dick; and the judgment ought to have stated that the
money was to be levied of the property, real and personal, of
tbe estate of John Dick, in their hands to be administered.
7. The judgment is void, because no execution could issue
against the estate of John Dick, and none could be executed.
8. The judgment is erroneous, because while it appears by
the petition and transcript, that only fifteen thousand five hundred and fifty-five dollars eighteen cents were due by Hawkins, the defendants have paid twelve thousand six hundred
and eighty-two dollars forty-six cents, and there is still a judgment against them unsatisfied in solido for seven thousand
three hundred and seventeen dollars fifty-four cents, and moreover against 1. and N. Dick, for ten thousand dollars each, and
does not follow the verdict, which is also void on its face, being
for a larger sum than is demanded.
9. The judgment is erroneous, because there is judgment for
costs, notwithstanding the plea of the Dicka, which has not
been disproved, that no amicable demand was made for the
money; the practice of Louisiana requiring that such a demand
of a debt must be made before suit, or the plaintiff cannot
recover costs.
10. The motion in arrest of judgment ought'to have prevailed, because judgment ought not to have been rendered
against two of the heirs, for although securities are jointly and
severally bound, yet each and all of the heirs of either of the
secu'rities must contribute equally to the portion due by the
person they represent, according to the proportion they receive
from the state.
11. The court erred in refusing the evidence of Hawkins's
account as navy agent with the Bank of the United States.
The money at his credit as navy agent, in the bank, if any,
is the property of the United States, and ought to go to the
credit of his account with the government, and the evidence
ought to have been received for what it was worth.
The whole proceedings are extremely irre'gular and the
judgment erroneous, and ought to be reversed.

JANUARY TERM 1832
[Cox and Dick v. The United-States.]

Mr, Johnston read the errors .assigned, and commented on
each.
He would waive in the argument all 'the objections to the
form of proceeding, and bring the question to the principal
errors on which he hoped to reverse the judgment.
The suit was instituted upon a bond of twenty thousand
dollars against the securities cf Hawkins; by which they were
bound to pay for him only so much as he was indebted to the
government.
The petition states that Hawkins, at the time of his death,
was indebted fifteen thousand five hundred and fifty-three
dollars and eighteen cents, and consequently they were only
bound for that sum, and no more. Yet a verdict has been rendered for twenty thousand dollars, and judgment has been
entered for twenty thousand dollars against the parties, in
solido; which being a larger sum than was demanded, and for
a sum exceeding the balance stated by the treasury to be due,
is erroneous upon the face of the record.
But Mr Cox, one of the securities, pleaded, that since the
death of Hawkins, he had paid the sum of seven tnousand three
hundred and seventeen dollars and fifty-four cents, in vouchers
takten in the name of Hawkins, which had been admitted at
the treasury; and tendered the transcript from the department
in support of his plea. This the court refused-to'which a
bill of exceptions was. taken, which brings this point before
this court.
The district court erred in this, because any payment made
by either party, since the death of Hawkins, was clearly subsequent to the balance on which suit was brought, as stated in
the petition.
It wa§, besides, legal evidence, and necessary to nis plea.
The party did not tender vouchers as the court seemed to
suppose; but a transcript*fromthe treasury of vouchers admitted since the death of Hawkins.
The court erred in this, also, in refusing the transcript.
Cox pleaded that he was himself entitled to a credit for seven
thousand three hundred and seventeen dollars and fifty-fQur
cents; which he had paid as so much of his half of the bond;
and prayed an apportionment with the co-security, and that
each might contribute according to their respective shares.
VOL, VI.-Y

SUPREME COURT.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

He offered in evidence a certain transcript from the treasury
books, duly certified, of certain payments made by Cox in
diminution of the balance of Hawkins, since his death, and
before the date of the transcript offered by the district attorney.
Mr Johaston argued, that this was a bond executed in Louisiana, and was governed by the laws of the place. That although
the parties were bound in solido, it was only an eventual, not
a positive responsibility. The principal is first bound by every
legaland moral obligation, unless be is absent or insolvent, or
his affairm greatly involved; and the -securities have a right to
demand a discussion of his property; and they are liable only
when his property is exhausted. Then begins the responsi.
bility of the sureties; and they are answerable in the first
instance only for their proper proportion, unless in case of
absence or insolvency; each has a right to pay, as Cox did
here, the amount of his responsibility, and to remain bound
only for the balance on the failure of the co-security.
The transcript ought to have been received as evidence to
show a payment after the death of Hawkins; whether the
credit was to go to Cox or all the securities. The evidence
tendered was legal and proper, whatever legal consequenees
might follow.
The case was irregularly brought against the Dicks without
stating their nam.esj and in what way, whether as heirs, executors, or administrators, they were responsible. The Dicks were
only two of three heirs; and as- they had accepted the estate
""with the benefit of an inventory," they were liable only for
the amount they had received. Yet the judgment is rendered
against them in solido, as if they, the heirs, were jointiy bound
with Cox; and then judgment is rendered in addition against
both the Dicks fdr ten thousand dollars each.
Mr Johnston contended the suit is improperly brought; the
testimony was illegally rejected; the judgment is erroneous,
being for more than was demanded; more than was due; being
double, and not conformable to the verdict, and was itself
void on the face of the record.
Mr Taney, attorney-general, stated, that the suit was brought
on the bond of a navy agent, dated March 10, 1821, and taken

JANU~ARY TERM 1832.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

under the authority of acts of congress passed March 8, 1809,
sect. 3, 4, 4th vol. Laws U. S. 221; May 15, 1820, sect. 3,
6th vol. Laws U. S. 519.
Hecontended that the United States were not bound to divide their action, and reduce their demand against Cox.
1. The securities being bound in solido with the principal,
they are not, by the laws of Louisiana, entitled to a division
of the action. Civil Code of Louisiana, 615, 616, art. a014.
2. But if they were so entitled by the laws of Louisiana,
yet this bond is to be interpreted according to the rules of the
common law, and the obligations of the parties measured accordingly. Each security is bound for the whole by the very
terms of his contract; and by the well established coarse -of
judicial proceedings, as known to the common law, either security may be sued on an instrument of this description, and
judgment rendered for the whole.
Where the act of congress speaks-" of a bond with one or
more sufficient securities," it describes an instrument wefl
known to the common law; which creates certain obligations
on the one side, and gives certain rights and remedies on the
other; and this bond being joint and several, the whole
amount may be recovered from either. If the bond were joint
only, suit against one could not be sustained by the principles
of the common law without the other; but when you obtain
judgment, you might levy the whole against either.
The meaning of the defence in this case is that each surety
is liable only for the one hal: and that no more can be recovered from him,
The inconvenience and injusuce of such an interpretation is
evident. The law of congress intended the same contractand
the same obligation wherever the obligors resided. It meant
to require "ca bond and security," not only in the form known
to the common law, but in its substance ard effect also. We
must resort to the common law for the form of the contract
directed by the laws of congress. If we are to look to it for
the form, we must look to the same source for its substance
and obligatidns.
The court were right in rejecting the transcript from the
treasury as evidence for the purpose for which it was offered.
The transcript was not offered to prove that Hawkins was en-

SUPREME COURT.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

titled to these credits; the credits had been already allowed
to him at the treasury. The exception states that the -payments were made and receipts taken in his name. The evidence was offered to show that Cox was entitled to those credits.
This question arises under the fourth section of the .,t of
congress of-March 3, 1797, 2d vol. Laws U. S. 594, 595.
The words of the fourth section are general, and apply to all
suits against individuals. Sect. 1 speaks of "revenue officers and other persons accountable for public money." Sect. 2
-speaks of cases of "delinquency," where suits have been instituted. Spet. 3, of persons indebted to the United States
Sect. 4 embraces all suits against "indivias aforesaid.
duals." The fair construction of the second and third sections
would embrace suits against the sureties as well as the principal.
But tha fourth section seems to be carefully worded, so as to
embrace suits against sureties, as well as principals. United
States V. Giles and others, 9 Cranch, 236.
Upon the death of Hawkins, and before, and at the time of
his death, Cox was indebted to the United States in twenty
thousan41 dollars (the penalty of his bond), on account of the
delinquency of Hawkins. His offer was to prove certain payments at the treasury, to discharge himself from a part of this
debt. It was the claim of a credit to himself for the amoupt
of such payments. He could not be allowed them, unless they
had been first off~red and rejected by the proper accounting
officer.
To this it may be objected, that he could not prove them
disallowed, because they had been allowed. But it is answered, that they had not been allowed to him in discharge of his
debt, but to Hawkins in discharge of a larger debt. 'The allegation is, that they were credited to Hawkins by mistake,
when they ought to have been lcredited to him. It was his
duty, if he claimed the credlit, to have the error corrected at
the treasury. It would have been the common case of passing
to the credit of one man, by mistake,.what properly belonged
to another.
The reason for requiring this application is obvious. It is
the duty of the accounting officers to obtain information, and
to warn the district attorney of the grounds of the rejection.
It might have appeared that this money was paid out of the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

funds of Hawkins. The reason why it was credited to him,
and not to Cox, would have been stated if he had applied at
the treasury.
But there is even a stronger reason for requiring that Cox
should have claimed this credit at the treasury.
The credits allowed to Hawkins's account cannot be altered
by the accounting officer without the application of Hawkins's
representatives, and proof of the mistake. They remain there,
therefore, to his credit. Suppose his representatives are sued,
would they not be entitled to these cred~its? They would not be
bound by the verdict in Cox's case, for tfiey are not parties;
they are returned non est inventus. It is not only the requirement of law, therefore, but it is the dictate of justice, that Cox
should furnish the accounting officer with the .dvidence of
his claim to these credits; for otherwise, the United States
may in the first instance be compelled to allow them to Cox,
and afterwards to allow them again to Hawkins in the payment for the excess due beyond the penalty of the bond.As matters now stand, if Cox obtains the verdict, and Hawkins's representatives are sued, they have nothing to do but
demand a copy of the transcript, and they prove him entitled
to the credit The transcript is made to prove for both. If
it proves Cox's claim, because they were entered after Hawkins's death, it will prove Hawkins's claim to them, because they are made in his name.. They may have been justly
appended to Hlawkins's credit if paid out of his funds; and if
Cox is entitled to them, he ought to exhibit his proof to the
accounting offieer.
The refusal to admit the account with the bank in evidence,
is justified by the reasoning on the preceding point.
The account of Hawkins with the bank could be no evidence
against the United States. If he had no funds there, that fact
could be proved by the proper officer of the bank, but an account between him and the bank, could upon no principle be
evidence against a third party. But if his accounts were evidence against third parties, how could they be received to
prove that Cox paid at the treasury the items id question out
of his own funds?
The offer is not made in connexion with the offer of other
evidence to prove that Hawkins was insolvent, and left no

SUPREME COURT.
[Cox ad Dick v. The United $tates.]

property out of which his payment could have been made.
Nothing is offered but the transcript from the treasury and the
bank account; and standing by themselves, they cannot even
tend to prove that the payment was made by Cox, and could
not have been made out of Hawkins's funds. if he had not
money to his-credit as navy ageint, in the bank, this is by no
means evidence that he had not, property or funds elsewhere,
out of which this debt, or these items might have been paid.
As to the motion in the district court in arrest ofjudgment,
by James and Nathaniel Dick, Mr Taney 'argued that this
point divided itself into two branches.
1. That judgment must be arrested because the proper parties are not before the court. This proposition assumes that
there can be no judgment against any of the representatives of
Dick, unless all of them are.before the courL
To this it is answered: 1. The law and practice of Louisiana
does not require it. In the case of creditor, and principal and
securities debtors, creditor may include all in one suit, or he
may not. Civil Code, 616, 617, art. 3018, 3019, 3020.
It is the same principle in cases of succession or representation of heirs. The demand is separate for his proportion.
Civil Code, 327, art. 1376, 1377.
Moreover, upon a mere point of practice, the decision bf
the court will be presumed to be right; and it is incumbent on
the plaintiffs in error to show the law, or the decision, which
proves them to be wrong.
2. If by the practice of the Louisiana courts it was necessary
to make all the heirs parties, yet it would be otherwise in the
courts of the United States. The act of congress o May 26,
1824, 7th vol. Laws U. S. 315, *as not intendei to allow a
practice that would produce a discrepancy with an act of congress. The court could alter the practice by rule in any case;
and in ordinary cases, evidence of .the'rule making the alteration would be required. But where the practice of thi state
would produce a discrepancy with a law of congress, no rule
was necessary: it became the duty of the judge to reject the
practice. In other words, the act of 1824 excludes all such
practice and proceedings in the state courts as do not harmonise with the laws of congress.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

If, therefore, a practice in the state courts requiring all the
heirs of a deceased debtor to be made parties in a suit by the
creditor would be inconsistent with any rule of proceeding
established by the laws of congress, such practice was not introduced, and was not intended to be introduced by the act of
1824.
A practice which required all the heirs of a deceased debtor
to be made parties in a suit by the creditor, would be inconsistent with the laws of the United States; and if the state
practice required Mrs Todd to be made a defendant in this
case, it would occasion a discrepancy with the laws of the
United States.
This is not a proceeding ii rem, but a personal action against
the heirs of John Dick, to charge them by reason .6f the property they have inherited from him. Civil Code, 326, art.
1370.
Moreover, it is not suggested that Mrs Todd's share of the
succession, or any other property belonging to her was in the
eastern district of Louisiana.
But the situation of any property belonging to her would
not be material to this question. In the answer of Cox, she
is stated to be the wife of J.Todd, of the state of Virginia.
In the suggestion of the district attorney, she is stated to reside out of tIe district, to wit, in the state of Virginia; and
in the motion in arrest of judgment, the suggestion of the di§trict attorney is adopted, and made the foundation of the motion.
It is no where suggested that she was then within the district.
The act of congress of 1789, ch. 20, sect. 11, declares, "and
no civil suit shall be brought before either of the said courts,
against an inhabitant of the United States, by any original
process, in ahy other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the time of serving the
writ." Mrs Todd, therefore, could not be made a patty in
this suit. The court had no jurisdiction in a personal action
against her. And if in a suit against the other representatives
she is a necessary party, then the United States cannot sustain
a suit any where for this claim. They cannot sue Mrs Todd

SUPREME COURT.
[Cox-and Dick v. The United States.]

in Louisiana, and they cannot sue Nathaniel and James Dick
Craig v. Cummings, 1 Peters's C. C. Rep.
in Virginia.
41, note.
As to the objection, that the judgment cannot be for the
whole amount against two out of the three heirs, Mr Taney
argued:
The only defendants in the case were Cox and the two
Dicks. The verdict is a general one for plaintiffs for $20,000.
The judgment necessarily followed the verdict, and even
formed it. The court could not, on that verdict, have given
judgment against the Dicks for two-thirds of the sum due.
The jury found the whole sum due jointly from the defendants, and the judgment necessarily followed it, unless the verdict was set aside. The verdict was conclusive.
The defendants might have made the objection before verdict, and if the court overruled it, have taken an exception:
and then the opinion of the court could be resisted on the
writ of error. And if the court gave the direction, and the
jury disregarded it, the court could have granted a new trial.
The error complained of is in the verdict, and not in thejudganent. It is one of fapt, and not of law, and cannot be reviewed here on writ of error. Parsons v. Armor, 3 Peters,
425. Parsons v, Bedford, S Peters, 445, 449. Upon the authority of these cases, it seems clear, that as there is no
exception tb an opinion before the verdict, the verdict was conclusive, unless set aside on a motion for a new trial.
As to the objection-that the representatives of Hawkins and
of Dick are not named, it was considered that Hawkins's
representatives are not parties here, and were not parties below. They are not named, and have not appeared. The appearance of Nathaniel and James Dick, and their answer, waves
the omission to name them. They answer, and state who are
the representatives of John Dick. A party may voluntarily
appear without process against him.
It is said there was no amicable demand.
1. There is no necessity for aft amicable demand by the
United States. It was the duty of the debtors to settle and
pay; andif they did not, it was the duty of the 'officersto sue.
The practice of Louisiana cannot alter the law of congress.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

2. The amicable demand, if necessary, was a fact; and is
disposed of by the verdict.
The plaintiffs in error, Nathaniel and James Dick, state that
they have received but four thousand dollars of the succession
of John Dick. This also is disposed of by the verdict. There
is no opinion given by the court on this point, and no exception on the suljccL
The judgment is said to be erroneous, because of its form.
The form of the judgment depends on the practice in that
state. It is not a judgment in the first instance against Nar
thaniel and James Dick, but against the estate of John Dick;
and the latter part seems to be explanatory of the first. If
it stood on the first clause, Mrs Todd would be embraced in
it, as she had succeeded to a p3rt of the estate. The second
clause seems to have been introduced to show that the judgment was against the two defendants in courL
Tbe form is unlike a common law judgment, but 'in a
mere matter of form in a proceeding so-unlike those khown
to a court of common law, this court would require clear
authority to show it was erroneous before they reversed it.
It was evidently intended to follow the verdict and contract.
Mr Johnston, in reply, stated, that the ground of defence
taken by the learned attorney of the government, was one of
great interest to the state of Louisiana.
It is, that the bonds executed in that state by the inhabitants
of that state, to the government, are nbt governed by the laws
of that state; but by the common law.
To the admission of this principle, which must affet all
the relations of all the citizens of Louisiana to the government,
and entirely change the nature of their obligation and responsibility upon all bonds to the government, he felt it his duty to
protest.
The government required a bond; but they have no law
regulating the form and the extent of the obligation of the
bond. They have no common law of the United States, and
the court has no power to adopt any system. They have
therefore no law, of binding force upon the court. But in this
case, the court must apply the general rule, applicable to all
human affairs; that the contrabt shall be governed by the law
VoL. VI.-Z

SUPREME COURT.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

of the place, the only'law known to the parties. Then the
court have a guide, and the citizens a law.
No injury will resulf, as the laws of all the states conform
to the 6ommon law, except those of the state of Louisiana,
which are founded on the principles of the civil law. Why
should not the people of that state have the benefit of their
laws, unless some material injury will result? The laws are
quite as good for the enforcement of the contract, and the security of the government, and much more just and beneficent,
than the severe and inflexible rules of the common law.
This case beautifully illustrates the difference in principle
that runs through the two systems.
The one contains a set of rigid principles, that makes the
hard enforcement of the contract its main object. The other
is paternal, it aims at justice, but mild and mitigated justice.
The one seems made only for the creditor, and to be utterly
.regardless of the rights or feelings of the debtors; it confers
the power upon the creditor of forcing the payment, from any
and all the parties, without the slightest regard to the justice
of the case among the co-obligors.
The other looks to all the rights of all the parties; how the
claims of the creditor may be enforced without injurious .delay
and without a multiplicity of actions, and how the debtors
,shall respond according to the principles of moral obligation
existing between them.
By the common law the creditor demands his bond; he
claims judgment equally .against the principal, who has contracted the debt, and against the innocent securities *ho are to
be made responsible for him. He selects among them, and
chooses whom he will pursue, and whom he will sacrifice.
The law places all the parties equally in his grasp; he may, in
the wantonness of power, while he saves one from motives of
favour or caprice, select his victim, pursue him to judgment,
seize and sell and sacrifice his property; and then the ruined
man is turned over to his remedy against the other party by
a due course of law.
The bond was not made merely for the government or the
inexorable creditor; but it ontains legal as well as moral obligations, between the principal and the security,.and among
the secuities themselves.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

Although all the defendants are liable, they are not upon
moral and equitable principles equally bound to pay: the principal is first bound to pay by duty and honour; and there is
strict propriety, while judgment is taken against all, that his
property should be first discussed and exhausted, and when
that fails, recourse must be had to the securities; and here
takes place a law between them, by which each is bound to
pay equally his proportion of the common loss, and then if
either fail, the other is responsible to the creditor for him.
Here is a spirit of equity running through the whole of this
judicial transaction, which strikes the common sense of mankind. The other conforms to the severe and rigorous principles of that system which declares "fiat justicia, ruit coelum:"
that is, enforce the law, and administer justice for the creditor
according to its stern decrees, if you ruin every party who
invokes its protection. Justice is equally done to the creditor
in both cases, but how differently; in one case it works injustice and does irreparable injury,, and often brings ruin to the
parties.
It is not extraordinary, therefore, that we should claim the
benefit of our equal laws, whose spirit we~feel and whose principles we understand; and that we should deprecate the harsh
and rigorous rules of the common law.
By the civil law, the creditor obtains his judgment againstall the parties, which binds their property; but execution runs
against them in the order of responsibility and according to
the principles of justice, unless in case of absence, insolvency
or involvement.
The common law obliges one party to p.iy for the rest at the
discretion of the creditor at any sacrifice; and then gives Tise
to other suits, with great expense, delay, and loss among the
parties.
So, also, by the equitable principles of the civil law, either
party may pay in advance his proportion, or any part of it, and
he shall have credit upon any claim against him. Here Mr
Cox, knowing that in consequence of the insolvency of Hawkins he would be answerable for at least half of the bond, made
payments to the government, for which he was entitled to
credit as among the co-securities; but the court refused to allow
him to produce the transcript, either-to prove the payment for

SUPREME COURT.
[Cox and Dick v. The U~nited States.]

hirpself, or as a general credit for the benefit of all twe defendants.
If the absence of all law In the United States upon the subject, and the necessity of a rule, do not 9blige the court to
adopt the general law, to wit, the lex loci,-which appears so
much in harmony with our system, and they are free to adopt
any code; the civil law recommends itself by its superior
equity. But why ,should the court adopt the common law,
which congress have not dared to do, and which congress cannot do by a declaratory law. It is, in the case of bonds, harsh,
severe and unjust? If left without any law, what necessity is
there for the application of any legal principles but the common sense and legal discretion of the court?
The bond requires nfo form, but merely to express in simple
language the nature of the obligation. The signing and the delivery, which has given rise to so much contestation, is a question of fact to be ascertained by proof and-decided by a jury;
it is not a question of law, it depends upon eircumstandes and
adjudged eases, even in England. And as to the seal, of what
importance in this age is the wax or the impression; it is not
required by act of congress, it proves nothing, it may be the
seal of any other person, or of no person; and yet if the courts
adopt the common law, a bond, no matter how solemnly expressed, subscribed and delivered, is of no validity unless it
has the authority of the wax?
When the court come to the bond itself,, it expresses in clear
and intelligible language, that the parties have bound themselves to pay for the principal if he fails; and common justice
and common sense would require that each should pay his just
proportion. It does not seem that any particular law is necessary to enable the court to tender judgment in such a casemuch less the common law; and if there is no necessity, how
unjust to adopt a foreign law to govern contracts in Louisiana,
to create liabilities, unknown to the laws and the people, which
are not necessary for the security of the government!
All the other states have the benefit of their laws in such
cases: why should Louisiana present the singular anomaly of
a foreign law, introduced not by the legislative power but by
judicial construction?
The court have determined to adopt the judicial expobitiou

JANUARY TERM 1s39.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

of the laws of the states by the state tribunals, in order to introduce a general conformity and harmony between the two
systems. Why not extend the principle so as to obtain a perfect adaptation to the laws of the states, and a general uniformity?
There is, besides, an additional reason for adopting the laws
of the state, and that is, that although John Dick was bound
by the common law, in solido, yet his representatives are only
bound to contribute, according to the laws of Louisiana; that
is, that each should be responsible only for the sum he received
as heir, and not for the sum due by John Dick, or for the share
of any of his heirs. Here the obligation of the bond must
conform to the law of distribution of Louisiana.
MIr Johnston said, however important this principle might
be as a general rule to the people of the state, he did not consider it important to the decision of this case. He relied upon
the fact as stated,- that Hawkins owed at the time of his death
only fifteen thousand five hundred and fifty-three dollars and
eighteen cents; that the court refused a transcript from the
treasury, which is full e'idence, showing payments made since
his death; and that the judgment is contrary to the evidence
and the law.
So stands the case upon the record; but he had no objection
io assent to the statement made of the facts by the attorneygeneral.
When Hawkins died, lie was indebted to the government
twenty-two thousand eight hundred and seventy dollars and
seventy-two cents. He was insolvent, and the securities knew
they were responsible for twenty thousand dollars; and as both
were officers of lie government, and desired not to be sued,
Cux proceeded to pay seven thousard three hundred and seventeen dollars and fifty-four cents in claims upon the government, and took the vouchers in the name of Hawkins, but
dated subsequent to his death; he forwarded the vouchers to
the proper accounting officer to be credited to his part of the
bund; he did this in perfect good faith and confidence. The
officer handed the vouchers to a clerk, who placed them to
the credit of Hawkins's account instead of opening an account
with the securities, and placing this as so much paid by Cox.
Mr Dick, judge of the United States court, died soon after, before he had paid his proportion.

SUPREME COURT.
Mox and Dick v. The United States.]

This payment would have left twelve thousand six hundred
and eighty-two dollars and forty-six cents, instead of fifteen
thousand five hundred and fifty-three dollars and eighteen
cents; and since the judgnment, the heirsof Dick have paid ten
thousand dollars, and Cox has paid two thousand six hundred
and eighty-two dollars and forty-six cents, making in all
twenty thousand dollars, paid to the government on this bond
by the securities.
Now the government has a judgment against them jointly
for twenty thousand dollars, upon which they have since paid
twelve thousand six hundred and eighty-two dollars and fortysix cents, leaving them seven thousand three hundred and
,seventeen dollars and fifty-four cents in debt: and they have a
judgment against the Dicks separately for ten thousand dollars
each, while it has been fully and fairly paid; and while it appears by the record that only fifteen thousand five hundred
and fifty-three dollars and eighteen cents %ere demanded, and
that twelve thousand six htlndred and eighty-two dollars and
forty-six cents have been paid since the rendition of the judgment and the balance paid before the suit brought.
Mr Justice TnoursoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause comes up by writ of error from the district court
of Louisiana district. The suit was instituted according to the
practice of that court by petition, which states that Joseph H.
Hawkins, late of New Orleans, navy agent of the United
States, now deceased, John Dick, late of the same place, deceased, and Nathaniel Cox, of the same place, on the 10th day
of March 1821, by their bond, became jointly and severally
bound to the United States in the penalty of twenty thousand
dollars. . To which obligation a condition was annexed, by
which it was provided, that if the said Joseph H. Hawkins
shall regularly account, when thereunto required, for all
public moneys received by him from time to time, and for all
public property committed to his care, with such person or
persons, officer or officers of the government of the United
States, as shall be duly authorised to settle and adjust his accounts, and shall pay over, as he may be directed, any sum or
sums that may be found due to the United States upon any
sudh settlement, and shall faithfully discharge in every respect

JANUARY TERM 1832.
tCoz and Dick v. The United States.]

the trust reposed In him, then the obligation to be void, otherwise to remain in full force and virtue: and the petition further
states, that the said Hawkins did not account for all public
moneys received by him, and did not pay over the sums due
from him to the, United States; but at his death-remained
indebted to the United States in the sum of fifteen thousand five
hundred and fifty-three dollars and eighteen cents, for moneys
received by him from the United States since the date of the
said bond, as navy agent: by reason whereof, the condition of
the said bond had become broken, and the said debt become
due; and prayed process of summons against the legal representatives of Hawkins and Dick, deceased, and against Nathaniel Cox, and that judgment may be rendered against them
for the said debt with interest and cost. A copy of the bond,
duly authenticated, is annexed to the petition; and citations
were issued against the legal representatives of J. H. Hawkins, deceased, and of John Dick, deceased (without naming
or designating them in any other manner), and against NAthaniel Cox.
As to the representatives of Hawkins, the citation was returned not found; and as to the representatives of John Dick,
it was returned served, and the like return as to Cox.
Cox appeared and answered, denying that the sum of
fifteen thousand -five hundred and fifty-three dollars and eighteen cents is due from the sureties, as stated in the petition;
alleging that he has paid, since the decease of Hawkins,
seven thousand three hundred and seventeen dollars and fiftyfour cents, which had been allowed at the treasury of the
United States; leaving a balance only of eight thousand two
hundred and thirty-five dollars and sixty-four cents. And,
according to the course of practice in Louisiana, he represents
that the succession of his co-surety John Dick, is solvent; and
demands that the United States divide their action, by reducing their demand to the amount of the share and proportion due by each surety, which was overruled by tha court.
Nathaniel Dick and James Dick appear and answer, that
they are two -of three heirs of John Dick, and in no event
bound for more than two thirds of any debt of John Dick, and
deny that the debt is in any manner due by the estate of John
Dick: but should the same be proved, they say they have re-

SUPREME COURT.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

ceived no more than four thousand dollars of the estate of John
Dick, and are liable for no more than two thousand dollars
each, and pray judgment and trial by jury. The cause was
tried by a jury, and a general verdict for -twenty thousand
dollars found for the plaintiffs, being the amount of the penalty
in the bond. Upon which the court gave judgment against the
estate of Jchn Dick and Nathaniel Cox, jointly and severally,
for the sum of twenty thousand dollars, with six per cent interest from the 2d day of January 1830, until paid; and also
gave'judgment against Nathaniel Dick and James Dick, for
the sum of ten thousand dollars each, with interest, &c.
In the course of the trial, a bill of exceptions was taken to
the opinion of the court, in rejecting evidence offered on the
part of Cox in support of his answer, setting up the payment
of seven thousand three hundred and seventeen dollars and
fifty-four cents, made by him after the death of Hawkins.
It is deemed unnecessary to notice the numerous and palpable errors contained in this record: that which arises from the
entry of thejudgment'is insuperable. It is difficult to conceive, unless through mistake, how such a judgment could be
entered. The demand in the petition is only fifteen thousand five hundred and fifty-three dollars and, eighteen cents.
The verdict of the jury is twenty thousand dollars; and upon
this a judgment is entered up against the estate of John Dick
and Nathaniel Cox jointly and severally for twenty-thousand
dollars, and a judgment also against Nathaniel Dick and James
Dick, for ten thousand dollars each. Upon no possible grounds,
therefore, can this judgment be sustained.
'There are, however, one or two questions arising upon this
record. which have been supposed at the bar to have a more
general bearing, which it may be proper briefly to notice.
Upon the trial, the defendant N. Cox offered in evidence a
transcript from the books of the treasury, duly authenticated,
purporting to be a list of payments made, and receipts taken
and passed at the treasury of the United States, in the name of
Joseph H. Hawkins, since the 3d of September 1823; it having
been previously shown that Hawkins died on the 1st day of
October of that year. This evidence was offered in support of
the allegation in Cox's answer, that he had paid seven thor

JANUARY TERM 1&32.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

sand three hundred and seventeen dollars and fifty-four cents
since the decease of Hawkins in his capacity of surety. This
testimony was objected to by the attorney of the United States
on the ground that no credits could be allowed, but such as
had been presented at the treasury and refused. The objection was sustained by the court, and the evidence rejected.
This was supposed in the court below, to come within the
act of congress, 2d vol. Laws U. S. 595, which declares that in
suits between the United States and individuals, no claim for
a credit shall be admitted upon the trial (except under certain
-specified circumstances, not applicable to this case), but such as
shall appear to, have been presented to the accounting officers
of the treasury for their examination, and by them disallowed.
This transcript is not set out in the record, and we can only
judge of it from what is stated in the bill of exceptions; and
from this it does not appear to be a case coming at all within
the act of congress. It was not offered as evidence*of any new
claim for a credit which had not been prehented to the accounting officers of the treasury. All the credits claimed had
been given at the treasury; and the only purpose for which
it was offered, was to show that such credits were given after
the death of Hawkins; and although standing in his name,
the payments could not have been made by him; and to let in
evidence to show that they were in fact made by the surety.
There is no evidence in the cause showing the course of keep.
ing the accounts at the treasury in such cases. But it is believed that new accounts are never opened with the suretiea.
The accounting officers have no means of deciding whether the
money is paid .out of the funds of the sureties, or out of those
of the principal. That is a question entirely between the
sureties and .the representatives of the principal. If application had been made at the treasury, and the accounting officers
had transferred the payments, and given credit to Cox instead
of Hawkins, it would not have changed the state of the case as
between the United States and the parties in the bond; and as
between the sureties themselves, it would have decided nothing,
even if that was an inquiry that could have been gone into
upon this trial. But nothing done at the treasury, which did
not fall within the scope of the authority of the accounting
officers in settling accounts, could have been received in eviVOL. VL-2 A

SUPREME COURT.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

deuce. In the case of the United States v. Buford, 3 Peters,
29, it was held hy this court that an account stated at the
treasury department, which does not arise in the ordinary
mode of doing business in that department, can derive no additional validity from being certified under the act of congress.
Such statements at the treasury can only be regarded as establishing items for moneys disbursed, through the ordinary
channels, of the department, when the transactions are shown
by its books. If then the accounting officers of the treasury
could have done nothing more than had already been done
by giving credit on Hawkins's account for payments alleged
to have been made by Cox after his death, whence the
necessity of making any application to the treasury? It
would have been a nugatory act; and the law surely ought
not to be so construed as to rcquire of a party a mere idle
ceremony. The law was intended for real and substantial
purposes; that the United States should not be surprised by
claims for credits, which they might not be able to meet and
explain in the hurry of h trial. But as nonew credit was asked
in this case, it would have been useless to make any application to the treasury for the mere purpose of being refused.
The evidence offered of Hawkins's account, as navy agent,
with the branch bank at New Orleans was properly rejected.
It was not competent evidence in this cause in any point of
view, unless it was to show that there was a balance in favour
of Hawkins, which ought to go to the credit of his account
with the government. But for this purpose it was not admim'ble; it not having been presented to the accounting officers of the treasury for allowance. This was setting up a claim
for a new credit, and could not be received according to the
express provisions of the act of congress.
The proceedings in this cause, and the manner in which the
judgment is entered, have been considered at the bar as affording a proper occasion for the court to decide whether this contract, and the liability of the parties thereupon, are to be governed by the rules of the civil la,," which prevail in Louisiana,
or by the common law which prevails here.
It was contended on the part of 'the plaintiffs in error, that
the United States were bound to divide their action, and take
judgment againqt each surety onlly, for his proportion of the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.1

sum due, according fo the law of Louisiana; considering it a
contract made there, and to be governed in this re~peat by the
law of the state.
On the part of the United States it is claimed that the liability of the sureties must be governed by the rules of the common law; and the bond being joint and several, each is bound
for the whole; and that the contribution between the cosureties is a matter with which the United States have no
concern.

The general rule on this subject is well settled; that the law
of the place where the contract is made, and not where the
action is brought, is to govern in expounding and enforcing
the contract, unless the parties havew a view to its being executed elsewhere; in which case it is to be governed according
to thelaw of the place where it is to be executed. 2 Burr. 1077;
4 Term, 182; 7 Term, 242; 2 Johns. 241; 4 Johns. 285.
There is nothing appearing on the face of this bond indicating the place of its execution, nor is there any evidence in
the case showing that fact. In the absence of all proof on that
point, it being an official. bond taken in pursuance of an act of
congress, it might well be assumed as having been executed
at the seat of government. But it is most likely that in point
of fact, for the convenience of parties, the bond was executed
at New Orleans, particularly as the sufficiency of the sureties
is approved by the district attorney of Louisiana.
But admitting the bond to haye been signed at New Orleans, it is very clear that the obligations imposed upon the
parties thereby looked for its execution to the city of Waa
ington. It is immaterial where the services as navy agent
were to be performed by Hawkins. His accountability for
non-performance was to be at the seat of government. He
was bound to account, and the sureties undertook that he
should account for all public moneys received by him, with
such officers of the government of the United States as are
duly authorised to settle and adjust his accounts. The bond
is given with reference to the laws of the United States on
that subject. And such accounting is required to be with the
treasury department at the seat of government; and the navy
agent is bound by the very terms of the bond to pay over such
sum as may be found due to the United States on such settle-

SUPREME COURT.
[Cox and Dick v. The United States.]

merit; and such paying over must be to the treasury department, or in such manner as shall be directed by the secretary.
The bond is, therefore, in every point of view in which it can
be considered, a contract to be executed at the city of Wuhington; aiid the liability of the parties must be governed by
'the rules of the common law.
The judgment of the court below is reversed; and the cause
sent back with directions to issue a venire de novo.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the district court of the United States for the district of East Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. Oil consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judginent of the said district court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby reversed, and that this caue be, and
the same is hereby remanded to the said district court, with
directions to award a venire facias de novo.

