SUPREME COURT.

JOHN CONARD, MARSHAL OF THE EASTERN DISTRICT O1
PENNSYLVAN tA-THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR V. THE PACIFIC INSURANCE COIPANY OF NEW
X0Ru, DEFENDANTS.
The case of Conard v. The Atlantic Insurance Company, I Peters's Reports,
386, cited, and the principles decided in the same confirmed.
The bringing up with the record of the proceedings in the circuit court, the
charge of the court at large, is a practice which this court has often disapproved,
and deems incorrect.
The case of Harris v. Dennie, 3 Peters's Reports, 292, decided no more than
that no creditor of the importer could, by any attachment or process, take
goods imported into the United States upon their impoitation out of the possession of the United States, until the lien of the United States for the duties
accruing thereon was actually discharged, either by payment of the duties oi
by giving sedurity therefor, according to the requirements of the law on the
part of the importer.
There is no doubt that if the importer has the general right and property in the
goods, that right draws after it a constructive possession, and the master of the
ship is but a bailee, maintaining the possession for his benefit.
There is no pretence to say that the property of the importer in the goods is de.
vested by any possession subsequently taken by the United States, for (he
purpose of maintaining their lien for duties That possession is not adverse
to the title of the importer; and indeed it may be properly deemed not so much
an exclusive as a concurrent and mixed possession for the joint benefit of the
importer and of the United States. It leaves the importer's right to the imme,
diate possession perfect, the moment the lien for the duties is discharged.
And if he tenders the duties, or the proper secutity therefor, and the collector
refuses the delivery of the goods, it is a tortious conversion of the property
for which an action of trespass or trover will lie.
The case not being one which called for vindictive or exemplary damages, the
circuit court charged the jury that the plaintiffs were entitled to recover such
damages as they had proved themselves entitled to, on account of the actual
injury sustained by theseizure and detention of the goods. And in ascent iring what these damages were, the court-directed them that the plaititrs had a
right to recover the value of the goods (teas) at the time ofthe levy, with interest
from the expiration of the usual credit on extensive sales. This was in conformity to the decision of this court in the case of Conard v. Nicoll, 4 Peters's
Reports, 291.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States, for the
eastern district of Pennsylvania.
This was an action of trespass de honis asportatis, brought

by the Pacific Insuran.;e Company of New York, against John
Conard, marshal of the eastern district of Pennsylvania.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Conard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

The plaintiffs declared in the common form of trespass, ppecifying the goods and chattels seized and taken by the defendant, to wit: sundry packages of teas of the value, altogether,
of upwards of sixty thousand dollars, and laying the damages
at one hundred and twenty thousand dollars.
To this declaration the defendant pleaded the general issue:
and also pleaded specially, 1. That on the 1st of May 182e
the plaintiffs received forty thousand dollars, paid to him by
the defendant, in full satisfaction of the trespasses and wrongs
complained of. 2. That at the April sessions of the court
1826, the plaintiffs impleaded him in a plea of trespass to The
plaintiffs, damages forty thousand dollars, and on the 30th of
April 1828, by judgment of the court, recovered the same,
which is the same trespass complained of in this declaration,
which judgment remains in full force; and afterwards, on the
3bth of April 1828, the said sum of forty thousand dollars was
paid to him in satisfaction thereof. 3. That at April sessions
1826, the plaintiffs impleaded him in a certain plea of trespass
to his damage forty thousand dollars, being the identical trespaqs complained of in this suit, and on the 30th of April 1828
the said plaintiffs recovered in the said plea by the judgment of
the court against the defendant, with six cents damages, and
costs which they had sustained by the same trespasses, which
judgment remains in force; and that on the 30th day of April
1828, the sum of forty thousand dollars was paid in full satisfaction thereof. Upon the first plea issue was joined. To the
special pleas the plaintiffs replied that they did hot receive the
sum of forty thousand dollars,in full satisfaction of the trespasses
and damages complained of, and of the other wrongs in the
declaration mentioned; and tendered an issue thereon. To the
third and fourth pleas the plaintiffs replied that they ouglit not
to be barred from maintaining their action by any thing alleged
in the same, becatse on the 9th day of October 1826, a
certain bond was executed by the said plaintiffs, and by them
delivered to and accepted by the United States of America,
in the following words:
"Know all men by these presents, that we, the Pacific Insurance Company of New York, are held, and firmly bound
unto the United States of America, in the sum of sixty thou-

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

!sand dollars, lawful money of the United States of America,
.to be paid to the said, the United States of America, their cer:tain attorney, successors, or assigns, to which payment well
and truly to be made, and done, we do bind ourselves, and
our successors, firmly by these presents. Sealed with our
seal of incorporation, and dated this ninth day of October, in
the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six.
"Whereas the goods and merchandise described in an invoice, a copy whereof is annexed, imported from Canton in
the ship Addison, safely arrived at the port of Philadelphia,
.have been levied on by the marshal of the eastern district of
Pennsylvania, by virtue of an execution, on .a judgment in
favour of the United States, against Edward Thomson, of
Philadelphia, as the property of the said Edward Thomson;
'and, whereas, the Pacific Insurance Company of New York
claim to be the owners in law or equity of the said goods, and
actually hold the bill of lading and invoice thereof, under
which the said goods have been duly entered at the customhouse, and the duties thereon secured to be paid according to
law; and, whereas, it has been agreed by and between the
secretary of the treasury in behalf of the United Slates, and
the said Pacific Insurance Company, that a suit shall be instituted, by the said named company, against the said marshal,
in which the sole question to be tried and decided shall be,
whethei' the United States, or the said Pacific Insurance Company, are entitled to the said goods and the proceeds thereof;
and, whereas, it has been further agreed that the said goods
shall be delivered to the said Pacific Insurance Company, without prejudice to the rights of the United States under the said
execations or otherwise, and that they shall sell and dispose of
the sam6 in the best manner and for the best price they capi
obtain therefor, and for cash, or upon credit, as they may judge
expedient; and that the moneys arising from the sale thereof,
deducting the duties and all customary charges and commissions on such sales, shall be deposited by the said Pacific Insurance Company, as soon as received from and after the sale,
in the Bank of the United States, to the credit of the president
of the said bank, in trust, to be invested in the stocks of tle
United States, in the name of the said president, in trust, so to

JANUARY TERM 1832.

265

[Conaru v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

remain until it shall be judicially and finally decided to whom
the said goods, or the proceeds thereof, do of right, and according to law, belong; and, on the further trust, that whenever such decision shall be made the said president of the said
bank shall deliver the said moneys, or transfer the said stocks,
to the party in whose favour such decision shall be made.
And, whereas, in pursuance of the said agreement, the said
goods have this day been delivered to the said Pacific Insurance Company, for the purposes aforesaid, it being understood
and agreed that such delivery of the goods shall not prejudice
any existing right of the said company. Now, the condition
of this obligation is such, that if the said Pacific Insurance
Company shall comply with the said arrangements, and well
and truly sell and dispose of the said goods, and cause the moneys arising, from the sale thereof, after deducting therefrom
the duties, charges and commissions, as aforesaid, to be deposited in the Bank of the United States, to the credit of the
president of the said bank, in trust, according to the true intent
and meaning of the above recited agreement, and for the purposes therein set forth, this obligation to be void, but otherwise, to be and remain in full force and virtue."
Sealed and delivered by the Pacific Insurance Company of
New York.
Invoice of merchandise shipped by Rodney Fisher, attorney
for John R, Thomson, on board the American ship Addison,
A. Hedelius, master, bound for Philadelphia, for account and
risk of Edward Thomson, Esquire, a native citizen of zhe
United States of America, r6siding there, and consigned to
order.
The invoice amounted 4o twenty-nine thousand nine hundred
and eighty-one dollars and twenty-one cents, and was d&:ed
Canton, November 22, 1825, and signed Rodney Fisher,
attorney for John R. Thomson.
And that, heretofore, to wit, on the same day and year
aforesaid, at the distlict aforesaid, a certain other bond was
executed by the said plaintiffs, and by them delivered to, and
accepted by the United States of America, in the following
words:
This bond was in all respects sunilar to that last recited,
saving that it applied to an invoice of merchandise amounting
VOL. IV.-2 I

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

th thirty thousand one hundred and seven dollars eighty seven
cents, shipped in the same manner on board the ship Superior
from Canton on the 2d of December 1825.
The plaintiffs further alleged, that when the bond was executed the defendant agreed that a suit should be instituted
against him as marshal) aforesaid, in which the sole question
to be tried and decided should be, whether the United States
or the plaintiffs were entitled to the goods or the proceeds.
And do further say, that afterwards, to wit, at the April ses.
sions of this court, in the year one thousand eight hundred
and twenty-six, in conformity with the shid bond, and with
the said agreement, a suit was instituted by the said plaintiffs,
in their name as plaintiffs, against the said John Conard, marshal of the eastern district of Pennsylvania, for the trial and
decision of the said question only, and for no, other purpose
whatever, and in which suit the iole question tried and decided
was, whether the United States or the said plaintiffs were entitled to said goods, and the proceeds thereof. And further,
that-all thepleadings and proceedings in the 'aid suit were subject to the said agreement, and were governed .and controlled
thereby: and 'that, in fact and in truth, the said plaintiffs did
not, on the trial of the said suit, claim to recover, and did not
offer any evidence for the purpose of recovering any damages
whatevei froth the said John Cpnard, marshal; and that no
damages whatever were recovered in the said court, except six
cents. And further, that in the said suit it was judicially and
fifially decided, that the said goods and the pfocceds thereof did,
of right.'and.according to-law, belong to-the said plaintiffs, and
a verdict and judgment for nominal damages were rendered;
and the plaintiffs did nt.r'aceive or claim therein or thereby,
any other or further damages,.or any damages.whatever, for
the said trespass and other wrongs. And further that the suit
here mentioned, and the plea in the defendant's plea mentioned
and referred to, are the same plea or suit, and not other or different pleas or suits, than in the said plea mentioned.
Upon the first of these replications issue was joined. To
the otiers, that is, the replications to the third and fourth
pleas, thel'e was a general demurrer, and joinder in demurrer.
-Upon this demurrer, the court below gave judgment for fie
plaintiffs.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
EConard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

On the 22d day of May 1830, the issues came to trial.
The plaintiffs produced a variety of evidence, parol and
written, to establish their title to the property, before and at
the time of the trespass complained of, being substantially the
same as that exhibited by the plaintiffs in the case of the
Atlantic Insurance Company v. Conard.
They also give in evidence a writ of fieri facias, at the suit
of the Unitfd States, against Edward Thomson, under which
it appeared, by indorsement thereon, that the defendant (Conard) levied uponi the goods and merchandise in the declaration
specified on the 16th day of March 1826, on board the ship in
which they arrived.
And they offered "further to prove a demand of the collector, and refused by him, after the levy was made, to permit an
entry and deliver the goods. But the counsel for the defendant objected to such proof; and the objection was overruled by
the court, and the evidence given."
To this opinion of the court the defendant excepted.
The evidence being closed, the counsel for the defendant
asked the court to charge the jury:
1. That the United States had a lien upon the goods imported in the ships the Superior and the Addison, from Canton, in the month of March 1826,-for the duties accruing upon
that importatidn: and that the United States, as an effect of
their liens, had the possession of the said goods the moment
of their importation.
2. That the documents exhibited inevidence, prove that,
Edward Thomson was, in fact, the importer of the goods in
question, and that, under the act of congress of 1799, he must
be regarded, for the purposes of that act, as the original consignee and owner, although the property in the goods might
have been in the plaintiffs.
3. That Edward Thomson as the importer, and the original consignee aidozbner, were the only persons entitled by law
to enter the goods at the custom-house, or give bonds for the
duties, or to pak the duties: and -that any recognition by the
collector or other public officer, of any other person, as entitled to enter, is not authorised by the law of the United States,
and cannot be admitted to vary the rights of the parties.
4. That the United States having a lien upon, and a possess-

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard v. The Pacific Insuranee Company.]
ion of, the goods at the time of their importation, and Edward Thomson being, in contemplatiou of the act of congress, the only person by whom this entry could legally be
made, the possession of the United States was never divested by any act of the plaintiffs to which the United States did
not consent;
5. That possession of the goods being, at the time of the
levy made by the defendant, legally in the United States, and
neither actually nor constructively in the plaintiffs, the present action, founded as it must be upon a possession by the
plaintiffs either actual or constructive, cannot be maintained.
6. That according to the act of congress, and Edward
Thomson regarded as the original importer, owner and consignee, and he being largely indebted upon bonds to the United
States for duties then remaining unpaid, the lien of the United
States for the duties which accrued on that importation could,
not be divested, except upon the payment of the said duties in
cash.
7. That the agreement of the 9th of October 1826, connected with the facts given in evidence, amounts to a release
or waiver by the plaintiffs of all demand for damages arising
from the acts of the oficers of th3 United States in taking possession and detaining the goods in question.
8. That in an action of'trespass, such as the present, where
no circumstances of aggravation in the motives or conduct of
the defendant are allered or pretended, the value of the goods
taken, or the diminution of that value- by their detention, is
the only just and legal measure of damages.
9. That the claim for damages, on the score of professional
compensation, paid in this and other causes connected with
the transaction, is inadmissible, and that therefore the evidence respecting it should be wholly disregarded by the jury.
The charge to the jury was as follows:
In this case there are two questions for your consideration:
1. Whether the plaintiffs can sustain this action.
2. The amount of damages to which they are eniitled.
The facts of the case are few. On the 10th and 11th July
1825, the plaintiffs advanced sixty thousand dollars to Edward Thomson on his respondentia bonds. He shipped the
money for Canton, took bills of lading deliverable to his fac-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Conard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

tar John R. Thomson, and assigned them to the plaintiffs:
The money arrived safely; and was invested in the teas now
in controversy. The teas were shipped on board of the ships
Addison and Superior, which arrived in the Delaware on the
15th March 1826, when, with their cargoes, they were levied
on by the defendant by virtue of an execution at the suit of
the United States, against Edward Thomson. The teas in
question were landed and deposited in the public stores,
under the care of the custom house officer, where they
remained until the fall of 1826, when, by an agreement made
between the plaintiffs and the secretary of. the treasury, they
were delivered to them and sold under their direction for their
account.
Immediately on hearing of the levy, the plaintiffs, by their
agent, offered to the collector to secure the daties, and demanded the teas., They were refused. On this state of the
facts the counsel for the defendant contends that Edward Thomson remained the legal owner of the teas at the time of the
levy: that the plaintiffs did not beco-ie the owners or consignees thereof or the agents, of Thomson, so as to authorise
them to enter the teas at the custom house according to tlie
provisions of the thirty-sixth section of the revenue law, which
he contends could only be made by Thomson himself: that he
being indebted to the United States by bonds for duties unpaid,
was,. by the proviso of the sixty-second section of the law, prop
hibited from making an entry without the actual payment of
the duties accruing, for which the United States had a lien until
they were paid: and that therefore the plaintiffs, not having
offered to pay the duties on their demand of the teas from the
collector, had no right to the possession of the goods, and cannot maintain this action.
Were this a question open for consideration, I should have
no hesitation in saying that the whole transaction between
Thomson and the plaintiffs made them the legal owners and
consignees of the property purchased by the outward shipment, and that as such they had a right to enter the teas on
securing the duties, without being affected by the delinquency
of Thomson at the custom house, as much so as if the shipment had been made in their own name and on their own
account.

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

But it has not been left for me to declare the law in this
case. It has been definitively settled by the supreme court in
the case of the Atlantic Insurance Company against Conard,
decided at January term 1828, and the case of Francis H.
Nicoll against- Conard, at the last term. The first of these
cases was an action of trespass brought to try the right of
property in the plaintiffs to teas shipped in the Addison and
Superior under circumstances in all respects agreeing with this
case. The court decided that they were the owners and entitled to the proceeds of what had been.sold under the agreement: the court declaring the plaintiffs to be the owners and
consignees by the agreement between them and Thomson, and the consequent acts. The second was a similar
action brought for the same purpose as well as the recovery of damages for levying on certain goods and a quantity
of teas shipped and in all respects circumstanced like the present. The cause was tried before Judge Washington in this
place, and resulted in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiffs,
not only for the proceeds of the property which had been sold,
but a large amount in damages. It was removed by writ of
error to the supreme court, and the judgment affirmed. The
judge who delivered their opinion did not think proper to add
to or alter any thing in the very able and excellent charge delivered to the jury by his lamented predecessor. The affirmance was itthese words: that charge embraced every point
material to the decision of this case, and, connected with the
opinion of the. court in the former case, leaves for you and the
court no other duty than acquiescence in the well established
principles which control the cause before you.
The right of property in the teas which are the subject of
this action has already been settled by the judgment of this
court in a former action between the same parties, and is conelusive on that point in this.
But the defendant's counsel contends that in the case of
Harris v. Denny, decided at the last term of the supreme court,
a principle has been settled which will prevent the plaintiffs'
recovering. The case 'was this: James D'Wolf, Jun. was
indebted to the United States on duty bonds unpaid: goods
consigned to him ar-rived in the port of Boston, which were at.
tached by his creditbrs in Massachusetts by a writ in the hands

JANUARY TERM 1832.
fConard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

of Denny the sheriff. The marshal attached the same goods
by process from the district court, at the suit of the United
States. At the time of the attachment by Denny, the plaintiffs
offered to secure the duties, and demanded possession, which
the collector refused. On an action by the sheriff against the
marshal, the court decided that he could not sustain it, because
the plaintiffs in the attachment were neither owners, consignees,
nor agents, that D'Wolf continued the owner, and being delinquent on former bonds had no right to enter the goods till payment of the duties, and that the plaintiffs, claiming only as
creditors, bad no right to the possession on, the mere offer to
secure them. This case has no bearing on the right of an
owner or consignee to enter goods on offering to secure duties
accruing. It was there declared that the United States had r a
lien on the goods for the amount due by D'Wolf on other importations. It only decided that a mere creditor could acquire no right to the possession of goods so imported consigned to D'Wolf, until the duties were actually paid.
The authority of the two cases referred to,. does not seem to
me to be at all shaken by that of Harris v. Denny, and I am
therefore clearly of opinion that the plaintiffs have well established their right to maintain the present action (or the recovery
of damages for the seizure of the goods in question.
It is next alleged that by the agreement of the 9th of October, and the acts accompanying it, the defendant is released
from all claims for damages. The decision of this and the
supreme court in the case of Nicoll v. Conard, settles the reverse, and declares that damages may be recovered, notwithstanding this agreement. In this case, the defendant pleaded
this agreement as a bar to this action:-the court overruled the
plea and rendered judgment for the plaintiffs, so that this ques.
tion has already been settled, as a matter of law, and is not
open for your consideration as one of fact.
The counsel for the defendant next contends, that the rule
of damages in this case is furnished by the balance due on the
respondentia bonds, after deducting the amount of the sales.
This ground is assumed by considering the plaintiffs as mere
mortgagees of the teas, an idea wholly inadmissible, after the
two solemn decisions of the supreme court, each adjudgingthe
legal right of property to be in the respective plaintiffs, as owt-

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

ers; and one of them awarding damages without any reference
to the amount due on the respondentia bonds,
These decisions are binding authcrity on this court, which
must be governed by them to their full extent. We are not at
liberty to say that the plaintiffs, in those actions were legal
owners, only to the extent of the debt due them by Edward
Thomson. The entire property in the teas was vesh d in
them, and this court has passed the same judgment as tb those
now in controversy. This action of trespass would assume a
singular aspect, if the plaintiffs could not recover damages to
the amount of their property which has been taken from them
by the defendant Edward Thomson, who had no legal property
in these teas. Whether the plaintiffs can in any event be considered as trustees for him, his creditors, or assigns, is not nlaterial to inquire in this action. On this question of damages,
we cannot settle accounts between trustees and cestui que
trusts (if there can be such, as to this property), who are no
parties to this suit. It is enough for the plaintiffs to exhibit
record evidence of their being the acknowledged legal owners.
It necessarily results, from such ownership, that they are legally entitled to all the damages arising from its seizure and
detention. The right to damages must be commensurate with
the right of property. To adopt any other rule would introduce endless confusion and mischief. The plaintiffs then are
before you as the legal owners of the teas, and with no legal
impediment in the way of their recovery.
The next question for your consideration, is the amount of
damages which the plaintiffs are entitled to recover, as the legal
owners of the teas.
The rule which ought to govern juries, in assessing damages
for injuries to personal property, depends much on the circumstances of the case; When a trespass is committed in a
wanton, rude, and aggravated manner, indicating-malice or a
desire to injure, a jury ought to be liberal in compensating the
party injured, in all he has lost irl property, in expenses for
the operation of his rights, in feeling or reputation: and even
this may be exceeded by setting a public example to prevent
a repetition of the act. In such cases there is no certain fixed
standard; for a jury may properly take into view, not only
what is due to the party complaining, but to the public, by

JANUARY TERM 1832.

273

[Conard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

inflicting what are called in law speculative, exemplary, or
vindictive damages. But, when an individual, acting in pursuance of what he conceives a just claim to property, proceeds
by legal process to gnforce it, and causes a levy to be made on
what is claimed by another, without abusing or perverting its
true object, there is and ought to be a very different rule, if,
after a due course of legal investigation, his case is not well
founded. This is what must necessarily happen in all judicial
proceedings, fairly and properly conducted, which are instituted to try contested rights to property. If the plaintiff, in
an action of trespass, succeed, he is entitled to legal satisfaction for the injury sustained by the taking and detention, in
cases not attended with the circumstances of aggravation before mentioned. The general rule of damage, is. the value of
the property taken, with interest from the time of the taking
down to the trial. This is generally considered as the extent
of the damages sustained, and this is deemed legal compensation, which refers solely to the injury done to the property
taken, and not to any collateral or consequential damages, resulting to the owner by the trespass. These are taken into
consideration, only in a case more or less aggravated; But
where the party, taking the property of another by legal process, acts in the fair pursuit of his supposed legal right, the
only reparation he is bound to make to the party who turns
out ultimately to be injured, is to place him, as to the property, in the same situation in which he was before the legal
The costs of the action are the
trespass was committed.
only penalty imposed by the law, which limits and regulates
the items and amount. In the present case, the defendant
acted under the orders of the government, in execution of his
duties as a public officer: he made the levy, but committed no
act beyond the strictest line of his duty, which placed him in
a situation where he had no discretion. The result has been
unfortunate for him: he has taken the property of the plaintiffs for the debt of Edward Thomson, and must make them
compensation for the injury they have sustained thereby, but
no further.
It has long siace been well settled, that a jury ought in nc
case to find exemplary damages against a public officer, acting
i. obedience to orders from the government, without any cirVOL. VI.-2 K

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

cumstances of aggravation, if he violates the law in making a
seizure of property. In the case of Nicoll against the present
defendant, Judge Washington instructed the jury that they
might give the plaintiff such damages as ho had proved himself
to be justly entitled to, on account of any actual injury he had
proved to their satisfaction he had stistained, by the seizure
and detention of the property levied on, but that they ought
not to give vindictive, imaginary, or speculative damages.
The affirmance of his charge makes it the guide for us, in this
case. Our true inquiry chen must be, what damages have the
plaintiffs so proved themselves to be entitled to?
There can be no doubt that they have a right to the value
of the teas at the time of the levy, with interest from the expiration of the usual credit on extensive sales. You may ascertain the value from the sales made at New York or this place
in the spring of 1826. If, in your opinion, they afford evidence of their real value, or if you are satisfied from the evidence you have heard that the seizure and storing of these teas
had the effect of depressing the prices, you may make such
additions to the prices at which sales were actually made, as
would make them equal to what they would have been, had
they come to the possession of the plaintiffs at the time of the
levy. But you may perhaps think that, under all the circumstances of this case, it would not be proper to affix a valuation
beyond the sales of other teas of a quality similar to those in
controversy, and that they afford a fair value of what the pliintiffs would have received had they remained at their disp9sal,
which will afford a correct mode of ascertaining their actual
value. This, however, is a matter exclusively for your consideration. You will judge of their value from all the evidence.
Thus far the case is attended withno difficulty. But it is
not so easy*to decide on the other items for which the plaintfffs claim an.allowance in. damages.
In marine trespasses the supreme court have, at different
times, laid down the following as the rule of damages, in cases
unaccompanied with aggravation.
In 2 Cranch, 124-156, the actual prime cost of the cargo,
interest, insurance, and expenses necessarily sustained by
bringing the vessel into the United States.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Conard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

In 3 Dallas, 334, the full value of the property injured or
destroyed: counsel fees rejected as an item of damage.
In 2 Wheaton, 335, the prime cost of the cargo, all charges,
insurance, and interest.
In 3 Wheaton, 560, the prime cost, or value of the property at the time of loss, or the diminution of its value by the
injury, and interest.
In 1 Gallison, 315, the prime cost and interest.
In 9 Wheaton, 376, 377, the case of the Apollo: where the
vessel and cargo are lost and destroyed, their actual value, with
interest from the trespass. The same rule also as to the partial injury-when property' has been restored, demurrage for
the vessel, and interest, where it has been: sold, the gross
amount of sales, and interest, with an addition of ten per cent,
where the sale was under disadvantageous circumstances, or
the property had not arrived at its place of destination.
In 3 Wheaton, 559, a loss by deterioration of the cargo, not
occasioned by the improper conduct of the captain, is not
allowed. Probable or possible profits on the voyage, either
on the ship or cargo, have in every instance been rejected. 9
Wheaton, 376, 377, 383.
In none of these cases do the court recognise an allowance
for such claims as are now set up by the plaintiff; but they all
seem to concur in adopting a rule which excludes them. No
good reason seems to be presented for a distinction between
the compensation due to a party injured by a marine trespass,
and one committed on land; neither do the judges, in delivering the opinion of the court, refer to such distinction as one
existing. In the case of the Apollo, Judge Story observes,
"Csuch, it is believed, have been the rules generally adopted
in practice, in cases which did not call for vindictive or aggravated damages." And it may be truly said, if these rules
do not furnish a complete indemnification, in all cases, they
have so much certainty in their application, and such a tendency to suppress expensive litigation, that they are entitled to
some commendation on principles of public policy, 9 Wheat.
379; and, in almost all cases, will give a fair and just recompense, 3 Wheaton, 561.
In 3 Wheaton, 558, the court, in assigning their reasons for

SUPREME COURT.
(Conard v. Tb Pacific Insurance Company.]

giving other damages in the case then before them, remark,
that it was one of gross and wanton outrage, without any just
excuse, and that, under such circumstances, the honour of the
country, and the duty of the court, equally require that a just
compensation should be made to the unoffending neutral for
all the injuries and losses actually sustained by him. The
respondents, in that case, were the owners of a privateer who
were, by policy, held responsible for the conduct of the officers
and men employed by them, but not to the extent of vindictive damages. This seems to afford a practical definition of
injuries and loshes actually sustained, and the class of cases
where compensation is allowed for them, which seems to be
midway between those attended with no aggravation, and
those which justify vindictive damages.
If the present were a case of marin6 trespass, I think there
is no doubt that the damages could not exceed the value of the
teas, and interest, if they had not been restored, or, as the
resalt has been a restoration, the injury done by the seizure,
which would be the loss in the sales, in the fall in the market,
and interest for the detention: for there exist none of the mattern of aggravation which have induced courts of admiralty to
go further.
It is in their sound discretion to allow or refuse counsel fees,
according to the nature of the case, either as damages, or a part
of the costs, as in the case of the Apollo; but, by a late case,
they were allowed as costs in a, case where it was adjudged by
the supreme court that no damages could be claimed. They
form an item of costs in such courts, but not in courts of comhon law. It would be legislation, by the common law courts,
to order them to be taxed as costs. The expenses of prosecuting claims of this description 'do not come within the principles established by the courts ip causes of admiralty jurisdiction, but seem to be considered as extra damages, beyond
the value and interest, where there is aggravation, but not
otherwise.
I think it a safe rule in common law actions of trespass, and
can perceive no sound reason for holding a marshal to a harder
rule of damage than a naval or revenue officer, or the owner
of a privateer. The same principle ought to govern all alike;

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Conard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

or, if any discrimination prevails, it should be in favour of the
defendant who could use no discretion, but was bound to do
the act which has exposed him to this action.
The case of Woodham v. Gelston, seems to me to be based
on this rule, and the damages recovered in that case were only
such as related to .the property. The marshal fees were for
seizing and keeping possession of the vessel. On the restoration to the plaintiff, he paid them: they were a charge on the
property, in the nature of storage or bailment. In sanctioning
this item, the court seem to put it on the ground of its being a
charge on the defendant, and having been paid.by plaintiff, he
was entitled to recover it back: but they say, if it had been a
mere voluntary payment, a deduction would have been proper.
The other items were for wharfage and ship-keeping, which
were disallowed because they were after the restoration.
These were all the claims for expenses presented in that case,
and they all attached to the property taken: none rel ted to
personal expenses in prosecuting the suit.
In declaring that voluntary payments shall be deducted, the
court settled the principle as to the right to charge for the
rmarshal's fees. They held the jury to strict' rules: for they
struck out an item of compound interest allowed by the verdict.
On the principle of this case of Woodham v. Gelston, the
charges of the auction sales are allowable, because such sale
had become necessary, and the expenses thereof became a
charge on the teas. Also fire insurance, which is a substitute
for bailment, and the premium paid in pl -ce of storage.
No case at common law has been cited, which conflicts with
this rule to any extent, except one under the patent law, in
which the learned judge of the first circuit has adjudged counsel fees in prosecuting a suit for an infringement of a patentright, to be a part of the "actual damage" sustained by the
plaintiff. Without questioning the correctness of this decision,
it is sufficient to observe, that it may have been founded on the
words of the act of congress, or reasons growing out of it. It
is not declared to be a rule applicable to ordinary actions of
trespass by the principles of the common law. Had it been so
declared, the high authority of that court would have induced
me to doubt the correctness of my opinion. But it does not

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

seem to me to establish the principle which must govern the
present case, and leaves me free to follow the settled course of
decisions, in making the value of the property and interest for
its detention, the only test of damages in cases like the present.
There is the same reason for making the expenses of prosecuting and conducting a suit for the enforcement of a contract,
as for the recovery of damages for a trespass divested of every
feature of aggravation, the legal compensation for the detention
of a debt, is the amount due, interest and costs. Courts and
juries can make no allowance for expenses incurred by withholding money justly due, however groundless or unjust the
pretext for refusing payment may be. The rule of damages is
-fixed and invariable. There can be no legal distinction between the mere detention of property, and the price at which
it was sold. If Conard had purchased these teas, and refused
to pay the price, the plaintiffs' right of recovery becomes
limited to that and interest. By the levy, he becomes liable
for their value or markE L price. The expenses of the plaintiffs, in pursuing their i ght to damages due by contract, or
those due by tort, would seem to come under the same principle of justice and law. It might be a good principle to allow
them in both cases; but I find none such established, so as to
have become a rule which can be laid down to you as the existing law of the action of trespass. It is all important, that in
matters of this kind, the principle which governs them should
he fixed and uniform. If we once begin to diverge from the
old line, it will be difficult to draw and define a new one with
accuracy. It -may be thought a hardship that the plaintiffs
shall not be allowed their actual disbursements in recovering
this property; but the hardship is equally great in a suit for
money lent, or to recover possession of land: they are deemed
in law losses without injury, for which no legal remedy is
afforded.
I am therefore -of opinion, that you cannot, in assessing
damages in this case, allow any of the items claimed by the
plaintiffs for disbursements; they being consequent losses only,
and not tj&e actual or direct injury to their property which
they have sustained by its seizure and detention, for which
alone they are entitled to recover damages in this case, it not
-being attended with any circumstances of aggravation on the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
ECohard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

part of the defendant. Had there been any such, a very different ruleywould have been applied, by reimbursing the plaintiffs to the full extent of all their expenses and consequential
losses.
You will then carefully weigh all the evidence in the cause,
and ascertain the true value of the teas at the time of the levy,
or when they could have come into market, by the rules of
the custom house, if there had been no claim asserted to them
by the United States, other than for the duties, with interest,
-deducting therefrom the net amount of sales; after payment of
duties and charges of sales, the balance will be the amount to
which the plaintiffs will be entitled. You will consider Mr
Conard as the only defendant. The government is no party
to this suit, nor is there any evidence which justifies us in
saying that they agreed to indemnify him: that must depend
exclusively on the discretion of congress, who are bound by no
pledge given by executive officers. You will have no reference, in making up your verdict, to the course which may, in
any event, be taken then, on an application by Mr Conard for
relief. You will awird to the plaintiffs such sum as you may
think them entitled to receive from the defendant, according
to the rules of law, without taking into view the supposed
hardship on him. The plaintiffs' recovery is not to be one
dollar less than their legal right, though it might ruin the defendant; nor one dollar more, though you might think the
public treasury would be opened for his relief."
To this charge the counsel for the defendant excepted, and
the judge sealed a bill of exceptions set but at large in the
transcript of the record.
A verdict was given for the plaintiffs, and the damages found
were forty-two thousand five hundred and ninety-one dollars
fifty-eight cents. Judgment was rendered accordingly.
The defendant prosecuted a writ of error to this court.
The case was submitted to the court by Mr Taney, attorney
general for the United States; and by Mr Ogden and Mr Ser-.
gant for the defendants.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case, upon all the leading points, presents the same
facts~zand .circumstances which were before this court in the

SUPREME COURT.
EConard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

cases of Conard v. The Atlantic Insurance Company, 1 Peters's
Sup. Rep. 386, and Conard v. Nicoll, 4 Peters's Sup. Rep.
291. Those cases underwent the most deliberate consideration
of the court, and we are entirely satisfied with the doctrines
maintained in them. The present case has been submitted
without argument, and contains, at large, the charge of the
learned judge who presided at the trial; a practice which this
court has often disapproved, and deems incorrect, and for the
continuation of which, nothing but the peculiar circumstances
of the present class of cases could furnish any just apology.
The only pqints to which it is now necessary to dvert, are
those which are not embraced in the former cases, reported in
the first and fourth volumes of Peterss Reports.
At the trial the plaintiffs offered to prove a demand of the
collector, and a refusal by him after the levy was made to
permit an entry and delivery of the goods at the custom house;
but the counsel for the defendant objected to such proof, and
the objection was overruled by the court, and the evidence
given. And wi are of opinion that this evidence was properly
admitted. *Theground of this objection must have been that
the plaintiffs were not the legal owners and consignees of the
goods, and so were not entitled to make an entry of them at
the custom house, and to have a delivery of them after such
entry. But to this the proper answer is given by the learned
judge in his charge, in conformity to the prior decisions of
this court. The plaintiffs were both owners and consignees.
The consignment of the homeward cargo was to order; and the
plaintiffs, in virtue of the assignment, and the indorsement
and possession of the bills of lading and the other transactions
stated in the case, became consignees as well as owners of the
homeward cargo; and as such were already entitled to enter
.the same, and to have delivery thereof upon giving bonds in
conformity with the provisions of the duty collection act of
1799, ch. 128. The thirty-sixth and sixty-second sections of
that act clearly confer the right; and the proviso of the sixtysecond section in nowise restrains it in cases like the present.
Another point, which appears to have been pressed by the
counsel for the defendant at the trial, is that the United States
had a lien upon, and a possession of the goods constituting the
homeward cargo, at the time of -their importation for the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Conard v. The Pacific Insurance Company.]

amount of duties accruing thereon, and that the plaintiffs, not
having an actual 'or constructive possession, could not maintain
the present action and Harris v. Dennie, 3 Peters's Sup.
Rep. 292, was relied on in support of this objection to the recovery: but that case has no hearing on the point. It decided
no more, than that no creditor could, by any attachment or
process, take the goods upon their importation out of the possession of the United States, until the lien of.the.United States
for the duties accruing thereon was actually discharged, either
by payment of the duties, or by giving security therefor, according to the requirements of law on the lpart of the importer.
There is no doubt that if the importer has the general right
and property in the goods, that right draws after it a constructive possession, and the master of the ship is but a bailee,
maintaining that possession for his benefit. And there is no
pretence to say that the property of tile importer in the goods
is divested by any possession subsequently taken by the United
States after the arrival of the goods, for the purpose of maintaining their lien for duties. That possession is not adverse
to the tMe of the importer; and indeed it may be properly
deemed not so much an exclusive as a concurrent and mixed
possession, for the joint benefit of the importer and of the
United States. It leaves the importer's right to the immediate
possession perfect, the moment the lien for the duties is discharged; and if he tenders the duties, or the proper security
therefor, and the collector or other officer refuses the delive.-y
of the goods, it is a tortious conversion of the property, for
which an action of trespass or trover will lie. But this case
does not even present that peculiarity; for the, seizure of the
goods was not under any authority t6 take possession in order
to secure the duties, but it was made by the defendant, as mar"
shal, to satisfy an execution against Edward Thomson, who
had at the time no property or interest in the goods. The
act was, therefore, the common case of an unlawful seizure
and levy of one man's property to satisfy an execution against
another man; and in such a case, trespass is clearly a fit and
appropriate remedy.
Another point was, that the agreement of the 9th of October
1826 stated in the ease, connected with the facts in evidence,
amounted to a release or waiver by the plaintiffs, of all demand
VOL. VL--2 L

SUPREME COURT.
[Conard v. The Pacific Inaurance Compauy.]

for damages arising from the acts of the officers of the United
States in taking possession of and detaining the goods in question. Upon this point it is unnecessary to say more than that
the agreement itself repels any such notion of a release or
waiver; and it was expressly overruled in Conard v. Nicoll,
4 Peters's Rep. 292.
Another point was as t6 the rule of damages; and here the
learned judge ig his charge seems to have laid down the very
ruld contended for by the defendant's counsel. The case not
being one which called for vindictive or exemplary damages,
he charged the jury (in conformity to the decision in Conard
v. Nicoll), that the plaintiffs were entitled to recover such
damages only, as they had proved themselves entitled to on
account of the actual injury sustained by the seizure and detention of the goods: and in ascertaining what those damages
were, he directed them that the plaintiffs had a right to recover
the value of the goods (teas) at the time of the levy, with interest from the expiration of the usual credit on extensive sales.
And, in the close of the charge, he farther directed them to deduct therefrom the net amount of the sales of the eas (they
had been sold under the arrangements stipulated in the agreement of the 9th of October 1826), after payment of duties and
charges of sale, and that the balance would be the amount to
which the plaintiff wodld be entitled. In what manner the
jury actually applied these directions in forming their verdict
.does not appear; and there is no reason to suppose that they
have'not been applied as favourably as the circumstances of
the case justified.
Upon the whole, upon a careful review of the charge, and
of the points upon which the counsel of the defendant requested the direction of the court to the jury, we can perceive no
error in point of law applicable to the present case, which calls
for the interposition of the corrective power of this court.
'The judgment of the circuit court is therefore affirmed, together with interest upon the amount, at.the rate of six per
centum as additional damages and costs.

