THE DECISIONS
OF

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

JANUARY TERM 1832.

GERRET SCHIMMELPENNICE AND ADRIAN TOE LAER, TRADING UNDER THE FIRm OF R. AND J. R. VAN STAPHORST
V. JOSIAH AND PHILIP TURNER.
The declaration contained two counts. The first, setting out the cause of action,
stated "for that whereas the said defendants and co-partners, trading under
the firm of Josiah Turner and Company in the lifetime of said William, on the
1st day of March 1821, were indebted to the plaintiffs, and being so indebted, &c." The second count was upon an insimul computassent, and began,
"and also whereas the said defendants afterwards, to wit on the day and year
aforesaid, accounted with the said plaintiffi of and concerning divers other
sums of moneydue and owing from the said defendants," &c. The defendants,
to maintain the issue on their parts, gave in evidence to the jury, that William
Turner, the person mentioned in the declaration, died on the 6th of January
1819, that he was formerly a partner with Josiah and Philip Turner the defendants under the firm of Josiah Turner and Company; but that the partnership
was dissolved in October 1817, and that the defendants formed a co-partnership
in 1820. The defendants prayed the court to instruct the jury that there is a
variance between the contract declared on, and the contract given in evidence;
William Turner being dead. By the court: the only allegation in the second
count in the declaration, from which it is argued that the contract declared
upon was one including William Turner with Joseph and Philip, is, "that the
said defendants accounted with the plaintiffs." But this does not warrant the
conclusion drawn from it. The defendants were Josiah and Philip Turner;

VOL. VI.-A

SUPREME COURT.
[Schimmelpennick v. Turner.]
William Turner was not a defendant, and the terms, the said defendato, could
not include him. There was no variance between the contract declared upon
in the second count, and the contract proved upon the trial, with respqct to the
parties thereto.

THIS case came before the court on a certificate of division
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Maryland.
In the circuit court, the plaintiffs, on the 29th of April 1825,
sued out a writ of capias ad respondendum, in an action of assumpsit against "Josiah Turner, and Philip Turner, surviving
partners of William Turner, citizens of Maryland, merchants."
The declaration in the case contained two counts: the first
count charged the defendant for work, labour and services, for
goods sold and delivered, and for money lent, paid and advanced in the following terms:
- Josiah Turner, and Philip Turner, surviving partners of
William Turner, citizens of Maryland, merchants, were attached to arswer the plaintiffs, "of a plea of trespass on the case,
&c. and thereupon the said plaintiffs, by J. Glenn their attorney, complain: for that whereas the said defendants, merchants
and co-partners, trading under the firm of Josiah Turner and
Company, in the life time of the said William," on the 1st
day of March 1822, were indebted to the plaintiffs, &c.
The second count was on an alleged simul computassent;
charging that "the said defendants, afterwards, to wit on the
day and year aforesaid, accounted with the said plaintiffs of and
concerning divers other sums of money, before that time due
and owing from the said defendants to the said plaintiffs, and
then being in arrears and unpaid, &c."
The defendants pleaded nor -assumpsit; and before the
case came on for trial depositions of witnesses were taken in
New York and in Holland, under commissions issued for the
purpose; which showed that the ground of action was for advances made by the agent of the plaintiffs in September and
October 1819, and in January 1820, on shipments of tobacco,
the property of Josiah Turner and Philip Turner, consigned
tO the plaintiffs and by them sold for the account of the defendants. From these transactions a balance was by the accounts current of the plaintiffs claimed to be due to them; and
the accounts current of the plaintiffs were by the testimony in
the case shown to have been furnished to the defendants by

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Schimmelpennick v. Turner.]

the agent of the plaintiffs at different periods, and particularly
in Jine 1822. No acknowledgement or admission of the correctness of the account was given in evidence.
The defendants, to maintain the issue on their part, gave in
evidence to the jury, that William Turner, the person mentioned in the declaration, died on the 6th day of January 1819;
that the said William was formerly a partner with the said
Josiah and Philip, under the firm of Josiah Turner and Company, but that the said copartnership was dissolved in October
1817; and that a new copartnership was formed between the
said Josiah and Philip in 1820, under the firm of Josiah Turner and Company.
Whereupon the defendants, by their counsel, prayed the
opinion of the court and their direction to the jury, that the
plaintiffs are not entitled to recover, because the defendants
are sued as surviving partners of William Turner; whereas the
proof is, that William Turner had departed. this life some
months before the first transaction took place bet% -en the
plaintiffs and defendants, and therefore could not constitute
one of the firm of the defendants at any time during the transactions in question; and that therefore there is a variance between the contract declared on, and the contract given in evidence; upon which prayer the opinions of the judges were
opposed, and the same, on motion of the plaintiffs, by their
counsel, was certified to the Supreme Court, agreeably to the
act of congress.
The case was argued by Mr Stewart for the plaintiffs, and
by Mr N. Williams for the defendants.
For the plaintiffs it was contended, that the description of
the defendants in the writ did not control the further proceedings, so as to make them erroneous if they did not conform to
that description. 2Black. Rep. 1 Bos. and Pdll. 383. 3 Day's
Rep. 472. The declaration properly recites the writ, but this
does not make the writ a part of the declaration. The declaration shows the ground of claim, and can alone be considered
as exhibiting it. 1 Chitty, 289. 2 W. Black. 848. , 11 F ist,
62, 65. 1 W. Black. 250.
This declaration in this case fully sustains the claim of the
plaintiffs, if the words "surviving partners" are rejected; and
they should be as surplusage. This being done, it states no

SUPREME COURT.
[Schimine]pennick v. Turner.]

cause of action against William Turner, but against Josiah Turner and Philip Turner.
But if the words '"surviving partners" dannot be struck out,
the objection of erroneous description does not apply to the
last count inthe declaration, as there they are not found. That
count refers to the defendants in the suit, and those defendants
were not William Turner, Josiah Turner, and Philip Turner,
but the two latter only. I Harris and Gill's Rep. 234.
A plaintiff may recover in the same action against a defendant an individual debt, as also a debt due by him as a surviving partner. 5 Burr. 263. 5 T. R. 493. 1 Barn. and Ald.
29, 224. 2 Chitty's Plead. 436.
As to the alleged variance between the writ and the declaration, cited 2 Wheat. 45; 1 Harr. and Gill. 384. If the defendants assert a variance between the second count and the writ,
that should have been made the subject of exception before
plea. 12 Johns. 344.
The evidence on the record shows that the parties had accounted together. The accounts of the plaintiffs were delivered to the' defendants, and no evidence that objections were
made to them, until after three years, was offered. If the evidence upon this point was slight, yet it should not have been
taken from the jury by the court: it was with the jury only
to determine on its sufficiency.
Mr Williams, for the defendants, argued, that although an
action against a surviving partner, charging him as an individual, upon a partnership debt, can be sustained, yet there is
no case where, in a suit on an individual contract, the defendant can be charged as a surviving partner; each partner being
liable individually for' the debts of the partnership: but partners are not liable for individual debts.
The rule of law is, that contracts must be set forth in the
declaration truly; and the slightest variance in substance will
be fatal. Archb. Plead. and Ev. 122. 1 Durn. and East, 240.
2 Stark. Rep. 60. (3 S. and L. 244.) 1 Chitty's Plead. 304.
Another- rule of pleading is, that if the declaration contains
too many defendants, or two few plaintiffs, it is a fatal defect.
1 Chitty's Plead. 31. Arch. Plead. and Evid. 78. 1 East,
52. Peters's C. C. R. 26, 27. Arch. Prac. 54.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Sehimmelpennick v. Turner.]

The declaration in this case comes fully within both these
rule.
No evidence in the cause applied to transactions occurring before the death of William Turner; and all the dealing
between the plaintiffs and Josiah and Philip Turner was subsequent to his decease.
The statement in the first count, by which the defendants
are charged as surviving partners, cannot be changed by considering the words "surviving partners" as surplusage. The
contract alleged, is a contract with the firm Qf "Josiah Turner
and Company" in the lifetime of William Turner; and thus
more. parties are asserted to have made the assumpsit than
those who are proved by the evidence to have been erngaged
in it.
The second count refers to the first; the plaintiffs count
against the defendants, as "the said defendants'." If the word
"9said" refers to the writ or the first count, it has the same
effect, and.alleges a contract made by Josiah and Philip Turner as surviving partners. Cited, 1 Chitty's Plead. 233.
Doug. 667. 1 Mason, 66. 1 Camp. 466.
Nor can the declaration be sustained, as if the defendants
had been individually described. Cited, Arch. Plead. ,and
Ev. 122. 1 Chitty's Plead. 31. 6 D. and E. 363. 2 John.
Rep. 213. 1 Peters's Rep. 317. 12 John. 349. 2 Williams's
Saund. Rep. 121. 4 Barn. and Ald. 374. Arch. Prac. 60.
2 Stark. 356. 1 S. and L. 208. 5 Cowen, 58.
Mr Justice THomPso N delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes up from the circuit court-for the district of
Maryland, upon a division of opinion in that court upon a
point stated on the record in the following manner, viz.
And thereupon the defendants, to maintain the issue on their
part, gave in evidence to the jury, that William Turner, the
person mentioned in the declaration in this cause died on the
6th of January 1819. That the said William was formerly a
partner with the said Josiah and Philip, under the firm of Josiah Turner and Company, but that the said copartnership was
dissolved in October 1817, and that a new copartnership was
formed between the said Josiah and Philip in 1820, under the
firm of Josiah Turner and Company.
Whereupon, the defendants by their counsel prayed the

SUPREME COURT.
[Schimmelpennick v. Turner.]

opinion of the court, and their direction to the jury, that the
plaintiffs are not entitled to recover, because the defendants
are sued as surviving partners of William Turner, whereas the
proof is, that William Turner had departed this life some
months before the first transaction took place between the
plaintiffs and defendants, and therefore could not constitute
one of the firm of the defendants at any time during the transaction in question, and that therefore there is a variance between the contract declared on, and the contract given in
evidence. Upon which prayer the opinions of the judges
were opposed.
The declaration contains two counts. The first, setting out
the cause of action, states as follows: for that whereas the
said defendants, merchants and copartners, trading under the
firm of Josiah Turner & Co., in the lifetime of said William,
on the 1st day of March in the year 1821, were indebted to
the plaintiffs, &c., and being so indebted, the defendants undertook and promised to pa , &c. The second count is upon
an insimul computassent, and begins: whereas also the said
defendants afterwards, to wit, on the day and year aforesaid,
accounted-with the said plaintiffs, of and concerning divers
other sums of money, due and owing from the said defendants,
and then in arrear and unpaid, and being so found in arrear,
the defendants promised to pay, &e.
Whatever objection may arise under the first count in the
declaration, with respect to a variance between the contract,
or cause of action, and the evidence to maintain it, that objection does not exist as to the second count. It is to be borne
in mind that it forms no part of the question upon which the
opinion of the judges was opposed, whether the evidence was
admissible under the count upon an inslimul computassent.
The point of objection was, that the cause of action as stated
in the declaration arose against the defendants and William
Turner, and the evidence only showed a cause of action against
the two defendants unconnected with William Turner, and
which arose since his decease.
The only allegation in the second count in the declaration,
from which it is argued that the contract declared upon was
one including William Turner with Josiah and Philip, is, that
the said defendants accounted with the plaintiffs, &c. But

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Schimmelpennick v. Turner.]

this does notwarrant the conclusion drawn from it. The defendants were Josiah and Philip Turner. William Turner
was not a defendant, and the reference by the terms the said
defendants could not include him. It does not even describe
the defendants as survivors, or allege that they accounted, as
such, or in the lifetime of William Turner. But the whold
cause of action as set out in this count arose against Josiah and
Philip, entirely unconnected with William. The evidence,
therefore, showing that William Turner died before the first
transaction took place between the defendants and plaintiffs,
did not show any variance between the contract declared upon
in this count, and the contract proved. The one declared
upon in the second count was between the plaintiffs, and the
defendants Josiah and Philip Turner, and the evidence did not
show a contract varying from it.
We are accordingly of opinion that there was no variance
between the contract declared upon in the second count, and
the contract proved upon the trial, with respect to the parties
thereto.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Maryland, and on the point and question on which the
judges of the said circuit court were opposed in opinion, and
which point was certifiedto this Court for its opinion in pursuance of the act of congress in such case made and provided,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is the
opinion of this Court that there was no variance between the
contract declared upon in the second count, and the contract
proved upon the trial, with respect.to the parties thereto;
whereupon it is ordered and adjudged by this Court that it be
certified to the said circuit court as the opinion of this Court,
that there was no variance between the contract declared upon
in the second count, and the contract proved upon the trial,
with respect to the parties thereto.

