JANUARY TERM 1832.

JAMES HUGHES, PLAINTIPF IN ERROR V. THE TRUSTEES OF
THE TOWN op CLARKSVILLE, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

Construction of the act of the legislatttre of Virginia, entitled "an act for the
locating and surveying the one hundred and fifty thousand acres of land
granted by a resolution of the assembly, to George Rogers Clark, and the
officers and soldiers who a~sisted in the reduction of the British post in the
Illinni'," passed on the 18th of October 1790, of the act of 1783 entitled "an
act for surveying and apportioning the lands granted to the Illinois regiment,
and establishing a town within the grant," and also of the act entitled "an
act to amend an act entitled an act for iurveying and apportioning the lands
granted to Ihe Illinois regiment, and establishing a town within the grant,"
passed in 1790.
Construction of the act of the legislature of Virginia, passed in December 1783,
adding the territory north-west of the river Ohio to the United States; and of
the deed ofcerion of the same territory, executed on the Ist of March 1784.
That a lessee will not be allowed to deny the title of his. lessor, is admitted; but
itis not admitted that a contract executed forthe purpose of conveying and acquiring an estate in fee, but wanting that legal formality which is required to

pass the title, may be con-v-_ced into an agreement contemplated by neither
party; and by thiq conversion, estop thd purchaser, while it leaves the seller
free to disregard the express stipulation.

THIS case was brought before the court by a writ of error
to the district court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
The case was argued by Mr Coxe and Mr Bibb, for the
plaintiff in error, and by Mr Howk for the defendants.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of ejectment originally brought by Joseph
Bartholomew and others, trustees of the town of Clarksville, in
the circuit court for the county of ,Clark in the state of Indiana, and removed on the petition of the original defendant
into the court of the United States for that district.
The parties agreed on a case in the following words:
"John Doe ex dem. Josepj Bartholomew, &c. Trustees of
the Town of Clarksville v. James Hughes.
The lessors of the plaintiff derive their title to the lands in
Vor. VI.-2 W

SUPREME COURT.
[Hughes v. The Trustees of Clarksville.]

the declaration mentioned, from the state of Virginia, by
virtue of an act of the general assembly of said state of Virginia, passed in the year 1783, and entitled " an act for surveying and apportioning the lands granted to the Illinois regiment, and establishing a town within the said grant;" and also
of another act of the general assembly of the state of Virginia,
passed in the year 1790, entitled " an act to amend an act entitled an act for. surveying and apportioning the lands granted
to the Illinois regiment, and establishing a town within the
said grant;" which said acts are in the words and figures following, to wit:
"An act for the locating and surveying the one hundred and
fifty thousand acres of land granted by a resolution of assembly,
to Col. George Rogers Clark, and the officers and soldiers who
assisted in the reduction of the British post in the Illinois. Be
it enacted by the general assembly, that William Fleming, John
Edwards, John Campbell, Walker .Daniel, gentlemen, and
George Rogers Clark, John Montgomery, Abraham Chaplain,
John Bailey, Robert Todd, and William Clark, officers in the
Illinois regiment, shall be, and they are hereby constituted a
board of commissioners, and that they, or a major part of them,
shall settle and 'determine the claims to land under the said
resolution. That the respective claimants shall give in their
claims to the said commissioners, on or before the 1st day of
April 1784, and, if approved and allowed, shall pay down to
the commissioners, one dollar for every hundred acres of land,
such claim, to enable them to survey and apportion the said
lands. The said commissioners shall appoint a principal surveyor, who shall have power to appoint his deputies, to be
approved by the said commissioner3, and to contract with him
for his fees. That from and after the 1st day of April 1784,
the said commissioners, or a major part of them, shall proceed
with the surveyor, to lay off the said hundred and fifty thousand
acres of land oh the north-west side of the Ohio river, the
length of which shall not exceed double the breadth; and after
laying out one thousand acres, at the most convenient place
therein for a town, shall proceed to lay out and survey the
residue, and divide the same by fair and equal lots among the
claimants; but no lot or survey shall exceed five hundred
acres. rhat the said commissioners, in their apportionments

JANUARY TERM 1832
[Hughes v. The Trustees of Clarkville.

of the said land, shall govern themselves by the allowances
made by law to the officers and soldiers in the continenil army.
That the said commissioners shall, as soon as may be, after
the said one hundred and forty-nine thousand acres shall be
surveyed, cause a plat thereof, certified on oath, to be returned
to the register's office, and thereupon a patent shall issue to
the said commissioners, or the survivors of them, who shall
hold the same in trust for the respective claimants: and they,
or a major part of them, shall thereafter, upon application,-execute good and sufficient deeds for conveying the several portions of land to the said officers and soldiers.
"And be it further enacted, that a plat of the said one thousand acres of land laid off for a town, shall be returned by the
surveyor to the court of the county of Jefferson, to be by the
clerk thereof recorded, and thereupon the same shall be, and
is hereby, vested in William Fleming, John Edwards, Walker
Daniel, John Campbell, George Rogers Clark, John Montgomery, Abraham Chaplain, John Bailey, Robert Todd, and
William Clark, gentlemen, trustees, to be by them, or any five.
of-them, laid off into lots of half an acre each, with convenient
streets and public lots, which shall be, and the same is hereby,
established a town by the name of Clarksville. That, after
the said land shall be laid off into lots and streets, the said
trustees, or any five of them, shall proceed to sell the same, or
so many as they shall judge expedient, at public auction, for
the best price that can be had, the time and place of sale being
previously advertised two months, at the court houses of the
adjacent'counties; the purchasers, respectively, to hold their
said lots subjectt o the condition of building on each a dwelling house twenty feet by eighteen, at least, with a brick or
stone chimney, to be finished within three years from the day
of sale; and the said trustees or any five of them, are hereby
empowered to convey the said lots to the purchasers thereof,
in fee simple, subject to the condition aforesaid, and, the
money arising from such sale, shall be applied by the said trustees in such manner as they shall judge most beneficial for the
inhabitants of said town. That the si4 truste6s, or the major part of them, shall have power, from time to time, to settle
and determine all disputes concerning the bounds of said lots,
and to settle such roles and orders for the regular building there

SUPREME COURT.
[Hughes v. The Truslees of ClaL-Sville.]

on as to them shall seem best and most convenient; and in case
of death, removal out of the county, or other legal disability
of any of the said trustees,, the remaining trustees shall supply
such vacancies by electing others, from time to time, who shall
be vested with the same powers as thosa particularly nominated in this act. The purchasers of the said lots, so soon as they
shall have saved the same according to their respective deeds of
conveyance, shall have and enjoy all the rights, privileges, and
immunities, which the freeholders ,and inhabitants of other
towns, in this state, not incorporated, hold and enjoy. If the
purchaser of any lot shall fail to build thereon within the time
before limited, the said trustees, or a major part of them, may
thereupon enter into such lot, and may either sell the sam6
again, and apply the money towards repairing the streets or
in any other way for the benefit of the said town, or appropriate
such lot to the public use of the inhabitants of the said town."
"An act to amend an act, entitled ' an act for surveying and
apportioning the lands granted to-the Illinois regiment, and
establishing a town within the said grant,' passed the 10th of
December 1790. Be it enacted by the general assembly, that
so much of the act entitled ' an act for surveying and apportioning the lands granted to the Illinois regiment, and establishing a town within the said grant' as requires that one
thousand acres of land for a town shall be laid off into half acre
lots, and each to be improved by building, subject to the condition of building on each a dwelling house twenty feet by
eighteen at least, with a brick chimney, to be finished within
three years from the day of sale, is hereby repealed.
"The trustees of the said town are hereby directed to convey to those who have already purchased a lot or lots in said
town, titles in fee simple, although the said lots may not have
been improved agreeably to the requisitions of the said recited
act.
"And be it further enacted, that the said trustees, or any
five of them, are authorised and required to sell at public auction the residue of the said one thousand acres of land, for the
best price that can be had for the same at twelve months' credit,
in lots not exceeding twenty acres, nor less than half an acre,
taking from the purchasers bond, with approved security, for
the payment thereof, and when received, to be applied to the

JANUARY. TERM 1832.
[Hughes v. The Tmustee3 of Clarksville.)

benefit of the said town; notice of the time and place of such
sale being previously advertised two months successively in
the Kentucky Gazette.
"A nd be it further enacted, that the said trustees shall convey
to the said purchasers titles in fee; and that the said lots shall
not be liable to forfeiture on account of any failure in improving the same, but that the titles thereof shall be absolute and
uticonditional, aiy thing in the said recited act to the contrary
notwithstanding."
In pursuance of the act first above recited, the board of commissioners t.ereby constituted, appointed William Clark principal surveyor, and proceeded to lay off the'one hundred and
fifty thousand acres of land, and laid off for a town the said
one thousand acres of land, a plat of which was, by the said
surveyor, returned to the court of the county of Jefferson, to
be by the clerk thereof recorded, which survey and return is
in the words and figures following, to wit, and of which survey the annexed map is substantially a copy, upon which the
lanfd in controversy is correctly represented between the letters X and Y, and between two dotted lines upon the margin
of the. river.(a)
"Surveyed one thousand acres of land on the northwest side
of the Ohio river for the town of Clarksville, agreeably to an
act of the assembly, entitled ' an act for the surveying, and
apportioning the lands granted to the Illinois regiment, and
establishing a town within the said grant.' Beginning on the
bank of the Ohio river, at a small 'white thorn, white oak and
hickory, a little below the mouth of Silver creek; running
thence north, crossing Silver creek twice, one hundred and
seventy poles, to a sweet gum, beech, and sugar, tree; thence
east, crossing said creek again, three hundred and twenty-six
poles, to three beeches; thence south 400 east, eighty-six poles,
to a beech -and sugar tree; thence one hundred and seventysix poles to a large sweet gum, sugar tree, and dogwood, on
the bank of Mill creek; thence south, crossing said creek, one
hundred and eighty poles, to a sugar and two ash trees; thence
east, one hundred and fifty-eight poles, to three beeches; thence
south, crossing Pond creek, two hundred and eighty poles, to
ka) The plat is omitted.

SUPREME COURT.
[Hughes v. The Trustees of Clarksville.]

the Ohio, at two white ashes and two hickory trees; thence
down the Ohio river, with its meanders, to the beginning.
W. CLARK, P. Surveyor."
The said trustees, named in the above recited act, entered
upon the said one thousand acres of land, and had the same
laid off into streets and lots, and sold a part of the same; and
and as vacancies occurred by death, removal out of the county
or otherwise, tile remaining trustees supplied such vacancies
by electing others, from time to time: so that on the 1st day
of July 1827, the said lessors of the said plaintiff, to wit,
Joseph Bartholomew, John Prather, Willis W. Goodwin,
Andrew Fite, John Weathers, William D. Beach, Charles
Euller, Orlando Raymond, Isaac Howk, and Peter Bottorff;
were tile trustees of Clarksville, by being duly elected, from
time to time, under the provisions of the above recited act.
At a meeting"of the board of trustees of the town of Clarksvilje, on the 18th of March 1803, the following resolution was
adopted by the board, and entered on the book of their proceedings, to wit: "the trustees, taking into consideration the
great advantage that would result to the trustees of the town
of Clarksville and the public in general, by opening a canal
round the falls of the Ohio, on the application of George
Rogers Clark, it is resolved by the board, that the rights, privileges and advantages of tie ground between the front lots on
the Ohio, and the Ohio from the upper line of the town of
Clarksville, adjoining Isaac Bowman's lot, No. 1, in the Illinois grant, to the mouth of Mill creek, be exclusively granted
to William Clark, his heirs and assigns, to be appropriated to
the use of opening a canal through any part of said slip of land,
on which to erect mills, wharfs, store houses, or any kind of
water works that riay be of public utility, or for the erection
of gites, locks, &c., for the passage of boats, vessels, &c., re.serving, however, between the south and eastwardly line of
said front lots and the canal, the distance of hirty feet; for
which privilege, the said William Clark, his'hirs and assigns,
are to pay the trustees or their successors one per cent on the
production of all water works that may be erected on said
'canal, and five per cent on the toll of all kind of craft that may
pass through the said canal. Provided, however, that the said
William-Clark, his heirs and assigns, do complete the said

JANUARY TERM 1832.
EHughes v. The Trustees of Clarksville.]

canal for the erection of'water works, within seven years from
this day.
At a meeting of the trustees of the town of Clarksville, on
the 5th day of December 1807, the following order and resolution was adopted by said trustees, and also entered on their
book of proceedings, to wit: " a memorial from William
Clark, praying that the trustees will prolong the time for his
complying with the conditions of a grant' made to him by a
fornier board of trustees on the 18th day of March 1803, of a
.lip of ground from the upperpart of the town to the mouth of
Mill run, was read. On motion, it was resolved, that a further time of three years be allowed for complying with-the
conditiQn of said grant, on condition that the said William
Clark, his heirs, &c, shall relinquish, under the former graht,
the distange of thirty feet, reserved for a street between the
front lots and any canal that may be opened, making a space of
sixty feet the whole distance between such canal and said front
lots, and that the former grant shall not extend further than to
the lower basin, and that the said William Clark, his heirs,
&c., shall bind himself, his heirs, &c., to build and keep up
good and sufficient bridges across said canal at the intersection
of every cross street, and to erect, within the period mentioned, to wit, by the 18th of March 1813, a mill or mills, to be
of public utility, or open a canal agreeably to the conditi6ns
of the former grant,. and to reserve to the trustees the stone in
the river not necessary for the uses of effecting and continuing
the improvements therein contemplated."
On the 21st November 1810, an act Qf the general assembly
of the territory of Indiana was passed in the words and figures
following, to wit: ." an act for the relief of Daniel Fetter, James
Hughes and Solomon Fuller.
",
Whereas it hcs been represented to the general assembly
of this territory, by sundry petitions and other documents, that
by the act of the state of Virginia incorporating'the town of
Clarksville in this territory, the trustees thereof were authorised to dispose of the land upon which said town was laid off
in half acre lots, at public auction or otherwise, as they might
think proper, and whereas the said trustees, by their orders
and resQlutions, did dispose of a certain part of said town to
general William Clark, in fee conditional, who transferred the

SUPREME COURT.
[Hughes v. The Trustees of Clarksville.]

same to the aforesaid Fetter, Hughes and Fuller, and whereas
it seems to have been the intention of the legislature of Virginia to subject the lots and land whereon the said town of
Clarksville was laid off, to the control and disposition of the
trustees of the said town, who, for the benefit of the proprietors
therein, and for the interest of the public at large, did dispose
en masse, in the manner aforesaid, of a number of lots, and it
appearing by the memorial of the said Fetter, Hughes and
Fuller, that the intention is to erect, for the public utility and
convenience, mills and other water works on the said ground:
"SE.c. 1. Therefore, be it enacted by the legislative council
and house of representatives, and it is hereby enacted by the
authority of the same, that the said Daniel Fetter, James
Hughes, and Solomon Fuller, their heirs and assigns, be, and
they are hereby considered, and shall be taken, deemed and
holden, as the legal and equitable proprietors of the lots and
land contained in the orders and resolutions of the said board
of trustees, and the deed of transfer thereof from the said William Clark, subject nevertheless to the terms and conditions
upon which the same was grant~l by the said board of trustees to the said William Clark." Passed November2L, 1810.
The said William Clark, prior to the passage of the act last
above recited, had transferred his interest in and to the said
slips of land, mentioned in said resolutions of the said trustees
of Clarksville., to the said Fetter, Hughes and Fuller, and
some of the persons composing the board of trustecs of Clarksville at that time, individually sigiled the petition of said Fetter, Hughes and FullEr, to the said general assembly, for tht
passage of the above recited act.
Fetter, Hughes and Fuller entered upon the said slip of
land, under the aforesaid orders and resolutions of said trustees,
and erected thereon, on the margin of the Ohio river, a saw
mlill, with a pair of mill stones for grinding, in the fall of the
year 1810, which mill was shortly after swept away by the
floods. That in the year 1812, they erected and put into operation a grist mill, of public utility, on the same slip of land,
and on the margin of the Ohio river, which remains unto' this
day; that to furnish a head of water for said mill, they cut
through! a-ridge of rock in the bed of said river, lying between
a channel of said river next the shore and an outer channel,

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Hughes v. The Trustees of Clarksville ] -

by which the water from the outer.channel was 'brought into
the channel next the shore; and that they expended in making
said improvements from twelve to twenty thousand dollars.
At a meeting of the board of trustees of the town of Clarksville, on the 17th day of December 1816, the- following resolution was adopted, and entered on the book of said trustees,
to wit: "on motion of Willis W. Goodwin, resolved, that the
clerk of this board be directed to call on Messrs Fetter and
Hughes, assignees of William Clark, and inform them that it
is the request of this board that they do make out and exhibit,
at our next meeting, an accurate statement of all the productions of the water works, mills, canals, &c., erectedon the
slip of ground granted them by the trustees of Clirksville,
since their commencement to the present date, and that
the same be supported by affidavit." At a meeting of the
said board of trustees on the 18th day of August 1817, the
following entry and order were macti by said trustees, on the
book of their proceedings, to wit: " Messrs Fetter and Hughes
produeda to this board a statement of th~e quantity of flour
manufactured at their mills, on the slip of ground gf-nted to
them by the trustees of the town of Clarksville, from the commencement to the 1st day of. January 1817, showing the net
prc -9eds thereon, by which it appears they are indebted to the
trustees the sum of sixty-nirne dollars ten and a half cents, and
it was ordered that they pay the same to the clerk of this
board."
Shortly after thd making of the order last above recited, the
said Fetter and Hughes paid to the clerk of the' said board of
trustees the sum of sixty-nine dollars ten and a half cents, in
pursuance of said order. The said Fuller duly tfansferred his
interest in said slip of land and appurtenances to said Fetter
and Hughes, an~ said Fetter transferred his interest in the same
to said Hughes, defendant herein, who, at the time of the commencement of this suit, was.in possession of said slip of land
and appurtenances; the said slip of land is a part of the one
thousand acres laid off for a town, as above stated, and ddlineated on the map aforesaid, and is the land in the. plaintiff's
declaration mentioned; and the said trustees of the town of
Clarksville, on the 1st day of Septexmber 1826, duly notified the said defendant
to quit the possession 6f said slip of
"Tor-VI.- o X

SUPREME COURT.
[Hughes v. The Trusiees of Clarksville.]

land and appurtenances, on or before the 18th day of March
then next, and defendant refused, and still refuses to quit
possession thereof. Itis agreed, that the parties and the court
shall not be precluded by this statement of facts from inferring
the existence of such other facts as may reasonably and properly be deduced from those stated."
The district court rendered judgment in favour of the plaintiffs in the ejectrent; and that judgment is now before this
court on a writ of error.
Questions both new and intricate have arisen in this cause;
and the doubts we have entertaine4 respecting some of them
were not easily removed.
The plaintiffs in error deny that the act of 1783, from which
-the trustees derive their title, could 'pass any legal estate to
them in the lands which are the subject of it.
The act appoints commissioners who are to proceed with
the surveyor, from and after the 1st day of April 1784, to lay
off the said one hundred and fifty thousand acres of land on
the north'west side of the 01io river; and after layivg out one
thousand acres at the most convenient place therein for a town,
shall proceed to lay out and survey the residue, and to divide
the same by fair and equal lots among the claimants. A plat
of the survey of the one hundred and forty-nine thousand cres
thus to be divided is, when completed, to be returned to the
register's office; "and thereupon a patent shall issue to the
said commissioners, or the survivor or survivors of them, who
shall hold the- same in ,trustfor the respective claimants."
They are directed to execute deeds, &e.
This act empowers the commissioners to receive the claims
of the several officers and soldiers of the Illinois regiment, and
to cause the survey to be made; bet no legal estate passes to
them until the patent shall be issued on the survey. The date
of the'patent does not appear, but- the survey on which it was
to be issued could not be made until after the 1st of April
1784; and consequently the patent must have been issued on
a subsequent day.
The law further enacts, that a plat of the said one thousand
acres directed to be laid off for a town, shall be returned by the
surveyor to the court of the county of Jefferson, to be by the
clerk thereof recorded, and thereupQn the same shall be and is

JANUARY TERM 1S32.
[Hughes v. The Trustees of Clarksville.]

hereby vested in William Fleming, &c. trustees, to be by them
or any five of them laid off into lots, &c.
The time wken this plat was returned isnot stated, but it
must have been after the Ist of April 1784.
Previous to that day, in December 1783, Virginia passed an
act ceding the territory she claimed north-west of the river
Ohio to the United States; and the deed of cession was executed on the 1st of March 1784. This deed contains the following among other reservations: "that a quantity not exceeding one hundred and fifty thousand acres of land promised by
this state shall be allowed and granted to the then colonel, now
general George Rogers Clark, and to the officers and soldiers
of his regiment who marched with him when the posts of Kaskaskia and St Vincent were reduced, and to the officers and
soldiers that have been since incorporated into the said regiment, to be laid off in one tract, the length of which not to
exceed double the breadth, in such place on the north-west
side of the Ohio as a majority of the officers shall choose; and
to be afterwards divided among the said officers and soldiers
in due proportions, acpording to the laws of Virginia."
The plaintiff in error contends, that as the state of Virginia
had conveyed all her territory north-west of the river Ohio to
the United States, before any legal title was vested in the commissioners or trustees appointed by the aci of 1783, the title
at law was vested in the United States, and could pass only
from them. That the reservation in favour of Clark's regiment, is not an exception of so much land from the deed of
cession; but a stipulation that congress shall comply with the
promise made by Virginia to that regiment. Consequently
that the plaintiffs in ejectment had no legal title.
Had the court been required to expound these laws immediately after the deed of cession was executed, it is probable
that the construction made by the plaintiff in error would have
been adopted. But the opposite construction has prevailed,
and all the titles in that reserve depend upon it. It is too late
to controvert it.
The title of the plaintiffs in ejectment has been contested on
Other ground, which is more tenable.
The act directs the plat for the town to be returned to the
office of Jefferson to be recorded, and declares that "thereupon

SUPREME COURT.
[Hughes v. The Trustees of Clarksville.]

the same shall be and is hereby vested in William Fleming,
&c. trustees, to be by them or any five of them, laid off into
lots of half an acre each, with convenient sireets and public
lots, which shall be and the same is hereby established a town
by the name of Clarksville." The act proceeds to prescribe
the duties and the powers of the trustees. They are to sell
the lots in the manner and on the conditions required by the
law; to convey them to the purchasers; to determine all disputes concerning their bounds; and to settle rules and orders
for regular builaing thereon. This enumeration of duties and
powers is concluded with the following provision: " and in case
of death, removal out of the country, or other legal disability of
any of the said trustees, the remaining trustees shall supply such
vacancies by electing others from time to time, who shall be
vested with the same powers as those particularly nominated
by this act." It is also enacted that "if the purchaser of any
lot shall fail to build thereon within the time before limited,
the said trustees, or a major part of them, may thereupon enter
into such lot, and may either sell the same again," " or appropriate suc.a lot to the public use of the inhabitants of the said
town."
The legal title is undoubtedly vested in William Fleming
and the other persons who are named as trustees of the town.
The possession of this legal estate, however, woula not have
enabled them to perform the various acts which were necessary
to the accomplishment of the object of the legislature. The
thousand acres intended as a town, is to. be laid out by these
persons in their character of commissioners;"and after the plat
thereof shall be recorded, it is vested in them by name, after
which the law prescribes their duties and powers. These are
expressly enumerated. They do not grow out of the estate,
but are conferred by the words of the act. Had the title been
vested in other persons, the same powers might have been
conferred on, and exercised by the trustees of the town. No
one of their powers depends on their possessing the legal
title. They might lay off the town in lots and streets, sell and
convey the lots, determine their boundaries, and settle rules
at~d orders for the regular building thereon, although the mere
title should reside in others. The legal title is not identified
with these powers, or connected with them by the words of

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Hughes v. The Trustees,of Clarksvllle.]

the law. The grantees are made trustees, but they receive
the grant as individuals; and the mere legal estate must descend
according to the law of descents, unless otherwise directed by
the particular statute.
No one of the persons in whom the land is vested by the
act, nor any person claiming title under any one of them, is a
party to this ejectment. The inquiry then is, has the legal
title, which was vested in William Fleming and others, been
divested by the act, and transferred to the defendants in error?
This must be determined by the act itself. The words are,
"in case of death, &c. of any of the trustees, the remaining trustees shall supply such vacancies by electing others from time to.
time, who shall be vested (not with the same estate, but) with
the same powers as those particularly nominated in" this act."'
If the estate be not indispensable to the existence or exercise
of the powers, and we think it is not; if the powers do not
grow out of the estate, but are conferred by special words in
the act, no necessity is perceived for supplying words which
are not used in the act, and implying a transfer of the estate
which the legislature.las not made. It is unquestionable, that
no inconvenience would result from such a construction; and
we may conjecture that had it occurred to the legislature that
the transfer of the estate to the new trustees might be useful,
it would have been directed; but we cannot do that which the
law has not done: we cannot take a trust estate from William
Fleming and others, and vest it in their successors as trustees,
when the law does not make the transfer.
It is probable that the legislature contemplated the immediate execution of the powers conferred by the act, which
would transfer the legal estate to the purchasers. They do not
appear to have contemplated the permanent residence of the
legal estate in the body of the trustees, for the purposes of the
act. If the trustees were to do any thing in virtue of the
estate, and not of their special powers, we might expect it to
be a re-entry for breach of the condition contained in the deeds
they made. Yet, after providing for their continuance, eien
this power is expressly given to them. The legislature appears
to have lost sight of the legal estate, and to have relied entirely
on the powers given to the trustees and their successors for the
acclomplishment of their object. The powers are given to the

SUPREME COURT.
[Hughes v. The Trustees of Claiksvilc.J

trustees and their successors; the estate is not given to their
successors. We do not think the grant of the powers draws
after it the estate. If any use is to be made of the estate
which cannot be effected by the employment of the powers, it
still remains, we think, in the original grantees or their heirs.
If any part of the one hundred and forty-nine thousand acres
has not been conveyed, the title to such part remains in the
same persons. The inconvenience of resorting to the holders
of the legal title is the same in both cases.
The court has not come to this conclusion without considerable doubt an difficulty: but, pursuing the words of the
statute, and finding in them no transfer of the estate, we must
consider it as remaining where it was placed by the legislature.
The trustees contend that the defendants below were estopped from denying their title, by the agreement of the 18th of
March 1803. The legal effect of that agreement, they say,
was to create a tenancy from year to year; and consequently
to establish the relation of landlord and tenant between the
trustees and those who claim under it.
That a lessee will not be allowed to deny, the title of his
lessor, is admitted; but it is not admitted that a contract executed for the purpose of conveying and acquiring an estate in fee,
but wanting those legal formalities which are required to pass
the title, may be converted into an agreement contemplated by
neither party; and by this conversion estop the purchaser, while
it leaves the seller free to disregard his express stipulations.
The resolutions entered into by the board of trustees on the.
18th of March 1803, constitute a contract which was intended
by all parties to invest William Clark with a permanent estate. The trustees resolve "that the rights, privileges and advantages of the ground" described in the resolution, "be
exclusively granted to William Clark, his heirs and assigns, to
be appropriated to the use of opening a canal through any part
of the said slip of land, on which to erect mills, wharfs, store
houses, or any kind of water works that may be of public
utility, or for the erection of gates, locks, &c. for the passage
of boats, vessels, &c." For this privilege, the trustees reserved
"one per cent on the production of all water works that may
be erected on the said canal, and five per cent on the toll of
all kind of craft that may pass through said canal." To this

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Hughes v. The Trustees of Clarksville.]

grant was annexed this provision. "Provided, however, that
the said William Clark, his heirs and assigns, do complete the
said capal for the erection of water works within seven years
from this day." This time was afterwards extended to. ten
years.
The assignees of William Clark took possession of the ,premises under this agreement, and sold to others, who have
expended from one to two thousand dollars on the work; and
have erected a saw mill, which has been carried away; and a
grist mill, which is now in operation, and of great public
utility.
It is impossible to doubt the intention of the parties to this
contract. The grant for which the trustees stipulate is to
•William Clark, his heirs and assigns. A tenancy.from year
to year, is directly repugnant to this stipulation. The money
to be expended on the great works in contemplation, is entirely
inconsistent with any other than a permanent estate. The
views of the parties are entirely defeated; the contract is
annulled by treating it as one which the trustees might deter-,
mine at their will, or at the end of aAy year. Had the contract been clothed with legal form by the execution of a deed,
such deed would have conveyed an estate to William Clarke,
his heirs and assigns. The reservation of the per centage on
the building and canal, as the consideration of the grant, instead of a sum in gross; could not affect the permanence of the
estate. The trustees could not have maintained an ejectment
after the execution of such deed, unless some one of the conditions contained in it, on which a right to re-enter was reserved,
should be broken; which breach it would be incumbent on the
rlaintiffs in ejectment to show. Had these resolutions then
amounted to a deed, or had the trustees placed the purchaser,
in point of law, in the situation in which both parties intended
by the contract to place him, this ejeetment could not have
been maintained, on any other principle than the breach o
some condition in the deed which authorised a re-entry.
But a legal title has not been made, and those who claim
under the contract cannot defend their possession by it in this
action. The trustees themselves deny its validity for this
purpose, and assert a title in opposition to it. While they
would turn the purchaser out of possession, because this con-

SUPREME COURT.
[Hughes v. The Trustees of Clarks'le.]

tract has no legal operation in this action, they would give it a
legal obligation on the defendant in the ejectment, which is to
restrain him from making a defence which would protect his
equitable rights under it. The contract binds him, but leaves
-them at perfect liberty. The moral policy of the law cannot
permit this., It is forbidden by the clearest principles of justice. The case of Blight's Lessee v. Rochester, 7 Wash. 534,
asserts this doctrine in a case nearly resembling this. The
plaintiff claimed under John Dunlap, whose title was not valid,
but he insisted that the defendant must trace his title up to
Dunlap, and therefore could not contest it. The court said,
"if he claims under a sale frnm Dunlap, the plaintiffs themselves assert a title against this contract. Unless they show
that it was conditional, and that the condition is broken, they
cannot, in the very act of disregarding it themselves, insist
that it binds the defendant, in good faith, to acknowledge a
title which hasno real existence."
Upon the authority of this case, and upon the sound principles of morality and justice which belong to the law, we do
not think that the plaintiffs, while asserting a title against their
contract, can be permitted to insist that the same contract binds
the defendant to admit their title.
This opihion, is founded on the idea that the action is brought
to obtain possession against the contract, not for any failure to
perform its conditions. The trustees themselves do not place
their right to re-enter and hold the premises on that ground.
The case doesnot state a re-entry for conditions broken; nordoes
it show expressly that any condition has been broken. If it
be admitted, that William Clark or his assignees would in
this caie-be bound to acknowledge the title of the trustees,
provided the trustees, on their part, acknowledge the obligation of their resolutions on themselves; it becomes necessary
to inquire whether ihe oconditions contained in those resolutions have been broken. What are those conditions?
The resolutions are not drawn -with such distinctness as to
make the object of the parties clearly intelligiblei or to show
the extent of the engagements into which Clark entered, so as
not to be misunderstood. '
They are introduced by a preamble stating the "advantages
that-would result" "by opening a canal round the falls of the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Hughes v. The Trustees of Clarksville.]

Ohio."
They then proceed to say, con the application of
George Rogers Clark, it is resolved by the board, that the
rights, privileges and advantages of the ground between the
front lots on the Ohio, and the Ohio from the upper line of
the town of Clarksville," &c. "to the mouth of Mill Creek,
be exclusively granted to William Clark, his heirs and assigns,
to be appropriated to the use of opening a canal through any
part of said slip of land, on which to erect mills, wharfs, store
houses, or any kind of water works that may be of public
utility, or for the erection of gates, locks, &c. for the passage
of boats, vessels, &c.
The preamble undoubtedly indicates that the trustees contemplated "cthe advantage which would result from a canal
round the falls," but whether they meant to bind Clark to
make the whole of that canal, is to. be determined by the, resolutions declaring the purposes of the grant to him.
The canal which Clark was to make, was, it is presumed to be
made through the ground ceded to him by the trustees. This
extends to the mouth of Mill Creek. The case does not state
whether Mill Creek empties into the Ohio below the falls. If
it does not, this fact would go far in the' construction of the
resolutions. If it does, the fact, or something equivalent,
should be shown in the case.
- The resolutions add that the rights, &e.exclusively granted,
"are to be appropriated to the use of opening a canal through
any part of the said slip of land, on which to erect mills,
wharfs, store houses, or any kind of water works that may be
of public utility."
This canal is "to pass through any part of the said slip of
land;" but is not required to pass through the whole of it, and
io empty into the river at the mouth of Mill creek. Its expressed purpose is to erect mills, wharfs, &c., but the erection
of all of them is not required, nor is the grantee himself required to erect any of them. The canal is to be adapted to
the purpose, and if it be so adapted, the requisition of the resolution is complied with. An alternative application of the
canal is allowed. The resolution proceeds to say, "4or for the
erection of gates, locks, &c., for the passage of boats, vessels,
&c. These two members of the resolutions are not connected
by the copulative 'and," but by the disjunctive "or."
VOL. VI.-2 Y

SUPREME COURT.
[Hughes v. The Trustees of Clakkeville.]

The resolution does not require that the canal should be fitted
for both purposes, but is satisfied if it be fitted for either.
The limitation df time is "9provided, however, that the said
William Clark, his heirs and assigns, do complete the said
canal, for the erection of water works, within sEven years
from this day." Clark and his assignees are within the requirement of the proviso, if they complete the" canal for the
erection of water works within seven years; though no works
of any description should be erected.
At a meeting of the trustees, held in December 1807, this
subject was again taken up. A farther time of three years was
allowed, on condition, among other things, that the former
grant shall not extend farther than to the lower basin, and that
the said William Clark shall bind himself, his heirs, &c. "'to
build and keep up good and sufficient bridges across said canal,
at the intersection of every cross street, and to erect witlin
the period mentioned, to wit by the 18th of March 1813, a
mill or mills io be of public utility, or open a canal agreeably
to the conditions of the former grant, &c."
,The alternative is given to Clark and his assigns, either to
build a mill or mills to be of public utility, or open the canal.
The case states that the mill was erected, which remains to
this day. It also states, that in December 1816, the trustees
called on the assignees of William Clark for a statement of the
production of the water works, which account was rendered,
and the money appearing to be due. on it was paid. We are
not informed that there was any subsequent failure in the payment of the money which became due under the contract.
'We are not, therefore, at liberty to suppose that the conditions
of the contract have been broken on the part of Clark's assignees.
The trustees, then, to sustain this ejectment, must consider
themseltes as absolved from the contract. Acting upon this
principle, they cannot set it up against the plaintiffs in error.
They cannot be permitted, while denying its obligation on
themselves, to enforce it on others. Both are free, or both
are bound. We are of opinion that the plaintiffs in error
were at liberty in this case to controvert the title set up by the
trustees in the court below.
The assignees of Clark have relied upon an act of the territorial legislature of Indiana, passed in November 1810, sulj

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Hughes v. The Trustees of Clarksville.]

plying the want of a conveyance; and declaring the assignees
of the said Clark to be "the legal and equitable proprietors of
the lots and IUnd contained in the orders and resolutions of the
said board of trustees," "subject, nevertheless, to the terms
and conditions upon which the same was granted."
We do not mean to deny the right of the legislature to modify
the future exercise of the powers possessed by the trustees of
the town of Clarksville; provided they do not inpair vested
rights: but we are not prepared to decide this case on an act
which changes the character and operation of a contract after
it has been made.
This case has been decided in the state court of Indiana, and
is reported in 1 Blatchford, 422. This court has considered
that decision with the respect to which it is justly ent'led.
In that case the court did not examine and decide on the legal
title of the trustees, becausd legal effect was given to the contract so far as to defeat the action. The relation of landlord
and tenant, therefore, was preserved between the parties, and
bound both. That relation defeated the plaintiff's action,
though it estopped the defendants from controverting his title.
Notwithstanding the plain meaning of the ontract made by
the resolutions of March 1803, to grant a permanent estate;
yet that contract, though incapable of passing an eftate at law
to the extent intended, was capable of passing at law an estate
from year to year, and in that action might be so construed.
The necessary effect of this construction was the admission of
the title of the lessor: but in this action no legal effect whatever is given to the contract, and it cannot therefore estop the
defendant from contesting the title asserted in hostility to it.
We do not consider the case as depending on'local law.
We are of opinion that the plaintiff below did not show title
to the possession of the premises claimied in the declaration;
and that there is error in the judgment of the court for the
district of Indiana in his favour.
That judgment is reversed, and judgment entered for the
defendant.
Mr Justice BALDwIri dissented.

388

SUPREME COURT.
[Hughes v. The Trustees of Clarksville.]

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the district court of the United States for the district of Indiana, and was argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof, it is the opinion of this Court, that the plaintiff below
did not show title to the possession of the premises claimed in
the declaration, and that there is error in the judgment of the
court for the district of Indiana in his favour; whereupon it is
ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the
said district court in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded
to the said district court, with directions to that court to enter
judgment for the defenda t below.

