SUPREME COURT.

JAMms GREENLEAP'S LEssEr, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR Y. JAMES
BIRTH, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
Ejectment. A deed of indenture, duly executed, acknowledged and recorded,
was given in ev;dence by the defendant in an ejectment, which purported to
convey certain lots of ground in the city of Washington, specifying the number
of the lots, referring to the title under which they were held by the grantor.
The deed contained the following exception: "except as hereinafter excepted, all those hereinafter mentioned and described lots, squar6s, lands and tenements, situate in the city of' Washington, in the disIrict of Columbia, which
the said J G. and the said R. M. and J. N. were jointly interested in, each
one equal undivided third part, on the day of the date of the indenture, the
10th July 1796." Aipong the lots described in the conveyance, were lots
supposed to be 239, described as those which J. G. the grantor contrazted for
with Uriah Forrest and Benjamin Stoddert, by an agreement dated 15th July,
1794. The lot sued for was one of those included in a conveyance made by Forrest and Stoddertto J. G., on the 24th September 1794. The exception in the
deed states the lots which it purports to apply to as "a square, number 506,"
another "square lying next to, and south of the said number 506, and all the
otherground lyingxiext to, and south ofthesquare last aforesaid,,the said square
containing, &C." which are to remain the separate property of the grantors,
and also excepting all such squares, lots, lands and tenements, as were conveyed or agreed to be conveyed by the parties to the indenture, prior to the
lOtW'July 1795. Held, that this exception is valid3 and that the burthen or
proof to show that the lot for which the ejectment is brought is within the exception, is not upon the plaintiff in the action. That in many cases the burthen of proof is on the party within whose peculiar knowledge and means of
information the fact lies, is admitted. But this rule is far from being universal,
and has many 'qualifications upon its application.
In the case before the court, the defendant has shown, prima facie, a good title
to recover. The defendant sets up no title in himself, but seeks to maintain
lbis possession as a mere intruder, by setting up a title in third persons, with
.whom he has no privity. In such a case it is incumbent upon the party setting
up the defence, to establish the existeqce of such an outstanding title, beyond
all controversy, It is not sufficient fok him to show that there may possibly
be such a title. If he leaves it in doubt, that is enough for the plaintiff. He
has a right to stand upon his prima facie good title; and he Is not bound to furnish any evidence to assist the defence. It is not incumbent on him negatively to establish the non-existence of such an outstanding title; it is the duty
of the defendant to make its existence certain.
Deeds for lands in the district of Columbia, executed by an insolvent debtor,
under the insolvent laws of the state of Pennsylvania, and under and in conformity with the insolvent laws of the state of Maryland, not having been
enrolled in the general court where the lands lie; -are, in a legal sense, mere
nullities, and incapable of passing thb lands described in them.

ERROR to the circuit court of the county of Alexandria, in
the district of Columbia.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Greenteas Lessee v. Birth.]

This was an ejectment instituted in May 1818, by theplaintiff in error, in the circuit court of the county of Washington,
for the recovery of a lot of ground in the city of Washington,
number 17, square 75. The case was subsequently removed
to the county of Alexandria, where the same was tried, and
a verdict and judgment rendered for the defendant. Theplaintiff prosecuted this writ of error.
The plaintiff in error, James Greenleaf, held in fee simple,
under a patent from the state of Maryland to William Langworth, and a deed from Uriah Forrestand Benjamin Stoddert, °
a large number of lots and squares of ground in the-city of
Washington. Afterwards, on the 13th of May 1796, he conveyed by deed of indenture to Robert Morris and John Nicholson, in fee simple, certain of the said lots, whioh are particularly described in the said instrument. The indenture
purports to convey the said lots, "except as is hereinafter ex-.
cepted ;" and the exception, in a subsequent part of the same, is
in the following words: " excepting, nevertheless, out of the
lots, squares, lands and tenements above mentioned, all that
square marked and distinguished in the plot of the city of
Washington, by the number 506, and that other gquare lying
next to and south of the said number 506, and all that other
square lying next to and south of the square last aforesaid, the
said three squares containing in the whole about the quantity
of one hundred and sixty-nine thousand and seveity-six and
three quarters square feet, be the same more or less; which it
is agreed by all the parties to these presents shall be and remain
the sole and separate property of the said James Greenlear; his
heirs and assigns; and excepting also all such squares, lots,
lands or tenements, as were either conveyed or sold, or agreed
to be conveyed, either by all or either them, the.said James
Greenleaf, Robert Morris and John Nicholson, or any of their
agents and attorneys, to any person or persons whatsoever, at
any tine prior to the 10th (lay of July 1795."
This deed Was recorded in the city of Washington according to the provisions of the laws of Maryland.
James Greenleaf having, on the 10th of March 1798, applied

to the supreme court of the state of Pennsylvania, for the
benefit of the insolvent laws of that state, was discharged as 'm

SUPREME COURT.
[Greenlears Lessee v. Birth.]

insolvent debtor by that court, on the 31st day of March
1798.
At the time of this discharge, he executed a conveyance of
all his estate, real, personal and mixed, to Robert Smith, Mordecai Lewis and James Yard, their heirs and assigns, for the
benefit of his -ereditors, agreeably to the provisions of the insolvent laws of the state of Pennsylvania.
Subsequently, in March 1800, on the application of the
creditors of Mr Greenleaf, Thomas M. Willing and Joseph S.
Lewis were substituted as the assignees of the insolvent; and,
they also refusing to act, the court, on the 12th day of March
1804, appointed John Miller, Junior, sole assignee of the estate and effects of Mr Greenleaf and Robert Smith and James
Yard, who survived Mordecai Lewis, on the 16th March 1804,
conveyed to John Miller, Junior, all the estate and effects of
the insolvent, which had been vested in them by the deed executed by him at the time of his discharge.
On the 9th of February 1799, James Greenleaf applied by
petition to the chancellor of the state of Maryland for the benefit
of the insolvent law of that state, passed in 1798; and he was
discharged on the 30th of August in the same year. As a part of
the proceedings in the case, the petitioner executed a deed conveying to a trustee named by the chancellor, all his property,
real and personal; and all the requirements of the laws of
Maryland were complied with.
Annexed to the schedule of the property of the petitioner for
the benefit of the insolvent laws of Maryland, is a statement
that all the property mentioned therein had been transferred
by the petitioner to assignees appointed under the insolvent
laws of Pennsylvania.
On the trial of the cause in the circuit court, the plaintiff
tendered two bills of exceptions.
The first bill of exceptions was as follows:
On the trial of this suit, to maintain the issue on his part
joined on the first count in his declaration, the plaintiff, gave
in evidence to the jury, a patent from the proprietors of the
state of Maryland, to William Langworth, dated 5th July
1686, in these words (stating the same), and proved that
the tenement, wooden messuage, and improvements in the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
iGreenlears Lessee v. Birth.]
plaintiff's declaration mentioned, were comprehended within
the bounds of the said patent, and the legal title to the said
tenement, wooden messuage, and improvements, was deduced
from the said patentee to plaintiff by divers mesne conveyances, and by the deed of the 20th September 1794, from Forrest
and Stoddert to J. Greenleaf, mentioned in the deed of 13th
May 1796; whereupon the defendant, to show a title out of the
plaintiff, gave in evidence to the jury, a deed from the said
James Greenleaf to Robert Morris and John Nicholson, dated
13th May 1796 (stating the same), admitted to have been executed by the said James Greenleaf, and offered no other evidence. Whereupon the plaintiff's counsel prayed'the court
to instruct the jury, that the said deed, unaccompanied by any
other evidence, did not show such an outstanding title as was
sufficient to bar the plaintiffs recovering in this suit; which instruction the court refused to give; to which refusal the plaintiff excepted, and prayed the court to sign and seal this, his bill
of exceptions, which is accordingly done this 5th day of December 1829.
The second bill of exceptions stated that:, on the trial of this
suit, to sustain the issue on his part joined, the plaintiff gave
in evidence to the jury, a patent from the proprietor of the
state of Maryland (stating the same), and the legal title under
the said patent is admitted by the defendant to have been vested
in the plaintiff by the said patent, and by divers mesne conveyances, on the 30th day of August 1799. Whereupon, to
prove a title out of the said Jdmes'Greenleaf, the defendant
offered in evidence to the jury, the proceedings in the case of
the said James Greenleaf, an insolvent, before the chancellor
of Maryland, setting out the said proceedings, and an act of
the state of Maryland of 1798, ch. 64. To the admission of
which proceedings of insolvency, the plaintiff by his counsel
excepted, but the court overruled the said exception, and permitted the said proceedings to be read in evidence to the jury;
and thereupon, on the prayer of the counsel for the defendant,
the court instructed the jury that the said act of assembly, and
proceedings in insolvency did show a legal title out of the
plaintiff, and did preclude a recovery in this suit on the first
count in the plaintiff's declaration.
The plaintiff's counsel thereupon gave in evide ce to thejury
VOL. VI.2
0

SUPREME COURT.
[Greenleaf's Lessee v. Birth.]

the proceedings in the case bf. he insolvency of the said James
Greenlcaf, in the commonwealth of Pennsylv'ania, in these words
(stating the same), and the conveyances therein mentioned, not
recorded in the state of Maryland, and prayed the court to
instruct the jury, that Under the operation of the said proceeding.i in Maryland and Pennsylvdnia, the legal title to the
prdmises in the declaration mentioned, notwithstanding the said
conveyances, was not divested from the said, James Greenieaf
by any thing by the defendants so as aforesaid shown; which
instruction the court refused to give. To the admission of the
procetuings as aforesaid before the chancellor of Maryland,
and-to the instruction of the court given on the prayer of the
defendant, as to the effect thereof, and of the said act of assembly, and to their refusal to instruct tht jury as prayed by the
plaintiff's counsel, the plaintiff, by his counsel, excepted, and
prayed that this, his bill of exceptions, may be sealed and enrolled, which was done accordingly.
The case was argued by Mr Coxe and Mr Jones, for the
plaintiff in error; and by Mr Swan and Mr Key for the defendant.
For the plaintiff, it was contended,. upon the first bill of exceptions, that a defendant in ejectment cannot protect himself
under an outstanding title, with which he is in no manner connected. But if 6uch a title could avail the-defendant in this
ease, he was bound to show that it, was a valid and s*bsisting
title, and covered the property in question. It was for him
to show that the lot held by him was not within the exception
in the deed of the 13th of May 1796, from .the plaintiff in
error to Morriq and Nicholson. Cited 5 Peters, 457. The
exception in thL deed is not void upon its face. If the exception were void, the whole deed would be void. It is sufficiently certain. If the description is such as to pass an estate,
it is sufficient as a'reservation. The exception does not apply
td the estate, but to a description of the land conveyed by the
deed. There is enouglj in the convEyance, and in the exception, to enable any onelevascertain what was granted, and 'what
was withheld.
As to the second bill of exceptions, it was said, that it was,
admitted that the title to the premises in eontroyersy was. in

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Greenleaf's Lesee v. Birth.]
August 1799, in the plaintiff in error. How had that title
been divested? By the laws of Maryland all conveyances of
land must be recorded in the county where the land is situated:
-without being recorded they do not pass any estate. These
provisions of the law apply to the proceedings under the
insolvent laws of' Pennsylvania, and to those before the chancellor of Maryland.
The Maryland deed has rot been recorded as provided by
the act of assembly; which requires that the same shall be en. olled withiii six months in order to make it operative. The
insolvent law in its spirit, if not in its terms, requires enrolment. The deed must be acknowledged. This is the act of
the insolvent. The recording is an act to be performed by
the assignee; and the act relative to the recording of deeds
considers this as an ordinary conveyance. It does not require
it to be recorded in the court of chancery. - It is, not a part of
the proceedings in that court. It is not executed4 under the
inspection of the chancellor; 'he is only to have a certificate of
its execution from the assignee.
The premises were not conveyed by the assignment executed under the insolvent laws of Pennsylvania. The description of the property was too general to pass the estate. After
that assignment, Mr Greenleaf had only a resulting trust in the
lots in Washington. If that assignment was not recorded in
the county of Washington, as it was not; he had the legal title,
subject to a claim of the assignees to a conveyance: and this
interest would not pass under the assignment in Maryland.
But he still held a niere naked legal estate, subject to the
equity, of his assignees and creditors.
It cannot be set up by the defendant, that the title to the
remises :- in the a~signee in Pennsylvania. That title, if it
ever existed, is barred by the statute of limitations.
But the plaintiff does not set up his title against any of his
trustees or "issignees. It is only against a mere intruder.and
stranger.
Mr Key and Mr'Swann, contra.
The questions in the case are, 1. Whetner the premises in
controversy are within the exceptions in the deed to Morris

SUPREME COURT.
[Greenleaf's Les."& v. Birth.)

and Nicholson. 2. Whether the interest of the plaintiff in
error, passed under the :Maryland insolvent law.
The decision of the first question turns on the point, who
must prove the lot not in the exception. It is admitted that
the defendant must show an outstanding title; but he is released from a part of the difficulty in.establishing such a title
here, as the exception is altogether void from its uncertainty;
it is a fraudulent trap, intended to operate secretly on the property conveyed by the deed.
Upon the law of exceptions, cited Shep. Touch. 77; 5 Coke,
12; 4 Com. Dig. tit. Fait, E. 8; 7" Co. Lit. 47, a; 3 Johns.
Rqp. 370; 8 Johns. Rep. 394; 3 Wheat. 224; Bul. N. P. 110.

As to the second bill of exceptions, the counsel for the defendant contended, that the refusal of the circuit court to
instruct the jury, that the proceedings under the insolvent
laws of Pennsylvania and Maryland did not divest the title of
Mr Greenleaf, was correct.
By the act of assembly of Maryland of 1798, chapter 64,
sections 5, 15, all the proceedings under the law are to be reIt is contended by the plaintiff that the title did
corded.
not pass under the assignment, because the deed Io Mr Cranch
was not recorded in the county where the property is situated.
But the recording in the court of chancery is all that is neces.
sary. The general act relative to recording of deeds does not
apply to such cases. The deed was a part of the chancery
proceedings; and the provision in the insolvent law relative to
the registering of the proceedings, is, so far as they would be
affected by the recording law, a repeal of the same. Cited 2
Har. and John. 574; 2 Har. and M'Henry,'46.
As to a mere intruder showing title out of the plaintiff, the
distinction seems tb be this-he cannot show -n outstanding
title in a third person; but he may show that the plaintiff has
himself parted with the title. Cited 3 Wheat. 225, 228; 9
Wheat. 516; 2 Har.'and John. 112; 5 Burr. 2484; 4 T. R.
682; 6 Mass. Rep. 239.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of the district of
Columbia. The original action was an ejeetment, brought in
May 181"8, by the plaintiff in eri'or, against the defendant in

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Greenleaf's Lessee v. Birth.J

error, for a certain lot of ground, number 17, square 75, in the
city of Washington, and was founded upon demises. Upon
the trial (which was at December term 1829), a verdict was
found for the defendant, upon which he had judgment. Two
bills of exceptibns were taken at the trial on behalf of the
plaintiff; and the questions for the consideration of this court
grow out of the matter of those exceptions.
The first bill of exceptions states, that at the trial a title to
the premises in controversy was deduced from the state of
Maryland, by mesne conveyances to James Greenleaf, the
lessor of the plaintiff, in September 1794. Whereupon the
defendant, to show a title out of the plaintiff, gave in evidence
to the jury a deed from Greenleaf to Robert Morris and John
Nichulson, dated the 13th of May 1796, the due execution of
which was admitted, and offered no othei evidence. Where"
upon the jlaintiff's counsel prayed the court to instruct the
jury, that the said deed, unaccompanied by any other evidence,
did not show such an outstanding title as was sufficient to bar
the plaintiff's recovery in the suit; which instruction the court
refused to give; to which refusal the plaintiff's counsel excepted. And the question before this court is, whether this
exception is well founded.
The deed of Gieehleaf to Morris and Nicholson 'purports to
grant to them in fee as tenants in common, "'except as is hereinafter excepted, all those hereinafter mentioned and 4escribed
lots, squares, lands and tenements situate in the city of Washington, in the District of Columbia, wherein the said James
Greenleaf, and the said Robert Morris and John Nicholson
were jointly interested, in each one equal undivided third part,
on the (lay pf the date of the above -named' articles of agreement" (the 10th of July 1796), &c. &.c It then proceeds to
specify three squares and lots contracted for by Greenleaf, with
the commissioners of the city of Washington; and three thousand lots contracted for by Greenleaf, as agent of Morris, with
the same commissioners; dnd about two huntired and twenty
lots, contracted for by" Greenleaf with Danier Carroll; and
abbut four hundred and twenty-eight and a half lots contracted
for by GreL"nleaf With Notley Young: and then proceeds,
"and also all those lots situate in the said city of Washington,
supposel to be about two hundred and thirty-nine and one

SUPREME COURT.
[Greenleaf's Lessee v. Birth.]

quarter in number, for which the said James Greenleaf contracted with Uriah Forrest and Benjamin Stoddert by an agreement in writing, bearing date, &c. (15th of July 1794). The
lot sued for was one of these lots, and was included in a conveyance made by Forrest and Stoddeit to Greenleaf on the 24th
of September 1794. Several other parcels of lots are then specified; and then comes the following exception: "excepting,
neverthi'less, out of the lots, squares, lands, and tenements above
mentioned, all that square marked and distinguished in the plan
of the said city of Washington by the number 506, and that other
square tying next to and south of the said number 506, and all
that other square lying next to and south of the square last aforesaid, the said square containing, &c. &c., which it is agreed, &a.
shall be and remain the sole and separate property of the said
James Greenleaf, and his heirs and assigns. And excepting also
all such squares, lots, lands, or tenements as were either conveyed or sold, or agreed to be conveyed either by all or either
of them, the saiJ James Greenleaf, Robert Morris, or John
Nicholson, or any of their agents or attorneys, to any person
or persons whatsoever, at any time prior to the said l0th day
of July, A.D: 1795.
It is observable that the granting part of the deed begins
by excepting from its operation all the lots, squares, lands and
tenements which are within the exceptions. The words are,
"cdoth grant, &c. except as is hereinafter excepted, all those
hereinafter mentioned and described lots, squires, lands and
tenements," &c. In order,,therefore, to ascertamn what isgrmted, we must first ascertain what is included ni the exception;
for whatever is within th exception, is excluded from the
grant; according to the maxim laid down in Co. Litt. -t a,
si quis rem dat et partem retinet, illa pars quam retinet semper cum eo est, et semper fuit.
.It has been argued that the second clause in the exception is
utterly void for uncertainty, because it excepts "such squares,
lots; &e. -as were either conveyed or sold, or agreed to be
conveyed," without stating to whom sold or conveyed, or.
agreed to be conveyed, or giving any other description which
would reduce them to certainty. And it has been intimated
that it is also void for repugnancy) because it is an exception
of a part which had been previously granted; and Co. Litt.

JANUARY TERM 1832.

311

[Greenleaf's Lessee v. Birth.]

47 a, has been relied on in support of this objection; where it
is laid down that an exception of a thing certain,iout of a thing
particular and certain, will be void; as, if a man leaves twenty
acres, excepting one acre, the exception is void. Com. Dig.
Fait, E. 7. But without stopping to inquire in what sense,
and to what extent the rule thus laid down is law, it is sufficient
to say that there is no such repugnancy here; for the exception is not out of the thing previously granted, but is incorporated into the very substance of the granting clause.
Ai to the other exception, we do not think it is void for uncertainty. It refers to things by which it may be made certain; and
id certum est, quod certum reddi potest. No one ivill, doubt
that the exception of squares and lots actually sold and conveyed, would be sufficiently certain; for tfiey may be made certain by reference to the debds of conveyance. And as all
contracts for the sale and conveyance of lands must be in writing, there seems, the same certainty in reference to the lots
contracted to be conveyed by the parties or their agents.
It has been suggested, that the generality of the exception
might open a door to frauds and. impositions upon third persons,
by enabling the parties to bring forward spurious or concealed
contracts at a future time. But to this objection it is a sufficient answer, that the present ip not a case of a bona fide purchaser or grantee, whose title may be affected by any such
fraud or concealment. The defendant, Birth, is a merm otranger
to the title, and for aught that appears, is a mere inthder. It
does not lie in his mouth to contend thatan exception, solemnly
stipulated for by the p.urties, shall not be binding between
them. They were content to take the conveyance upon these
terms. There was certainly enough in the exception to satisfy
them; and it would be a fraud in the grantees to attempt to
avail themselves of the generaf and loose expressions of the
exception, to avoid the titles of parties claiming title under
Greenleaf by prior deeds or contracts of lots within the reservation. Even if the exceptiorn were void at law, a court of
equity would relieve them against the claims of lIorris and
Nicholson, set up to their prejudice. It is not improbable
that many such titles in this city are now held under the faith
of this exception; and a declaration, at the instance of a mere

SUPREME COURT.
[Greenleaf's Lessee v. Birth.)

intruder, that it was utterly void, might work the most serious
mischiefs. We 'ee no substantial ground to support it.
But if it were otherwise; stili the other exception of the
square number 506, and the other two squares next south of
it, are sufficiently certain. This court cannot judicially know
that one of the squares next south of square number 506 is not
square number 75; and there is nothing in the record that
negatives it, for the defendant offered no evidence except the
naked deed.
But it is sai'd that if the exception is not void, still the burthen
of proof is upon the plaintiff to establish that the lot in controversy is within the exception; because it is peculiarly within
the privity and knowledge of the plaintiff's lessor what lots
were conveyed and sold, and contracted to be conveyed, and
the defendant has no means of knowledge. That in many
cases the burthen of proof is on the party within whose peculiar knowledge and means of information the fact lies, is admitted. But the rule is far from being universal, and has
many qualifications upon its application. In the present case
the plaintiff has shown, prima facie, a good title to recover.
The defendant sets up no title in himself, but seeks to maintain
his possession as a mere intruder, by setting up a title in third
persons, with whom he has no privity. In such a case it is
incumbent upon the. party setting up the defence, to establish
the existence of such an outstanding title beyond controversy.
It is not sufficient for him to show that there may possibly be
such a title. If he leaves it in doubt, that is enough for the
plaintiff. He has a right to stand upon his prima lacie good
title, and je is not bound to furnish any evidence to assist the
defence. It is not incumbent on him, negatively, to establish
the non-existence of such an outstanding title; it is the duty
ofthe defendant to make its existence certain.
-Besides, this is the case of an outstanding tle set up under
a deed executed in 1796, under which, in respect to the act in
controversy, the grantees are rwt shown either to have had, or
to have claimed any possession or right of possession. The
present ejectment was brought in 1818, twenty-two years after
the execution of that deed; and the trial had in 1829, more
than thirty-three years after its execution. Under such cir-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Greenleaf's Lessee v. Birth.]

cumstances, a very strong pr'esumption certainly arises that
the lot was included within the exception; for it would be difficult in any other manner to' account for such total absence of
claim, or p qsession, by the grantees. An outstanding title
could hardly be deemed a good subsisting title by common
presumption, under such circumstances; whereas, if the lot was
within the exception, the non-claim would be natural and fully
accounted for. We are therefore of opinion that the circuit
court erred, in refusing the instruction prayed for by the plaintiff in the first bill 'ofexceptions.
The second bill of exceptions, after statinj that the defendant
admitted that the legal title to the lot in question, under the
patent from the state of Maryland, was vested in the plaintiff by
the patent, and by divers mesne conveyances- on the 30th day
of August 1 799, proceeds to state, that, thereupon, to prove a
title out of James Greenleaf, the defendant offered in evidence
to the jury, the proceedings in the.case of James Greenleaf, an
insolvent before the chancellor of Maryland, and the act of
Maryland of 1798, ch. 64; to the admission of which proceedings the plaintiff objected; but the court overruled the objection
and admitted the evidence; and thereupon, on the prayer of the
defendant, the court instructed the jury, that the said act of
1798, and the proceedings of insolvency, did show a legal title
out of the plaintiff, and did preclude a recovery in this suit on
the first count in the plaintiff's declaration; that is to say, upon
the demise of Greenleaf.
The plaintiff's counsel thereupon gave in evidence the proceedings in the case of the insolvency of Greenleaf, in the
commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and the conv'eyances therein
mentioned, not recorded in the state of Maryland; and
prayed the court to instruct the jury, the -under the operation
of the said proceedings in Maryland and Pennsylvania, the
legal title to the premises in the declaration, notwithstanding
said conveyances, was not divested from Greenleaf, by any
thing by the defendant so shown; which instruction the court
refused to give: to which refusal, and instruction, and admission of evidente the plaintiff excepted.
By the laws of Maryland, (with certain exceptions not necessary to be mentioned) no conveyance is sufficient to pass
any estate of' inheritance or freehold in lands, or any estate
VOL VL.-2 P

SUPREME COURT.
[Greenleaf's Lessee v. Birth.]

above seven years, except the deed or conveyance be in writing, and acknowledged in the general court, or before a judge
thereof, or in the county court, or before two justices of the
county where the lands lie, &c. &c., and be enrolled in the
records of the county, or of the general court, within six months
after the date thereof; see act of 1715, ch. 47; act of 1767, ch.
14; act of 1783, ch. 9; act of 1794, ch. 57; act of 1798, ch.
103. Neither the deed of assignment of Greenleaf to the
trustee under the Maryland insolvency, nor the deed of assignment of Greenleaf to the trustees, under the Pennsylvania
insolvency, have 'ever been enrolled in the general court, or in
the county vhere the land in controversy lies. Unless, then,
some exception can be found which exempts these assignments
from the general law, the omission to enrol them renders
them, in a legal sense, mere nullities, and incapable of passing
any title to the land in controversy. There is no pretence of
any exception in relation to the assignment under the Pennsylvania proceeding; and therefore that did not divest the title
of Greenleaf. But in regard to the Maryland proceedings, it
is said that there is, under the act of 1798, ch. 64, respecting
insolvents, a constructive exception. That act provides, section fifthi that upon the petitioning debtor's (and Greenleaf
was in that predicament) executing and acknowledging a deed
to the trustee to be appointed, as the act requires, conveying
all his properfy, real, personal, and mixed, &c.and the trustee's
certifying the sarife, it shall be lawful for the chancellor to order
that the said debtor shall be discharged from all debts, &c.
Greenleaf was accordingly discharged, having in this respect
complied with the terms of the act. The fifteenth section of
the act provides "that all proceedings under this act shall be
recorded by the register, who shall be entitled to the same fees
as are fixed by law for services in other cases, &c. &c."1 Now
the argument is, that this clause operates, pro tanto, a repeal of
the general laws, ih relation to the enrolment of conveyances,
so far as respects assignments by debtors under the act. But
we think this is not the fair construction of the act. There is
nothing in the act which requires the assignment to be recorded4 nor does it necessarily constitute a part of the proceedings
before the chancellor. On the contrary, the fifth section contemplates, that it shall be executed and acknowledged by the
debtor in the usual manner, and the trustee is to certify the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
fGreanlaf's Lessee v. Birth.]

same to the chancellor. If the deed is to be acknowledged in
the usual manner, then it is to be enrolled in the usual manner,
for no provision is made for its enrolment elsewhere; and the
only judicial notice which the chancellor has of it, as connected
with the proceedings before him, is by the certificate" of the
trustee. Nor i there any policy disclosed on the face of the
act of 1798, which could justify the court in presuming, that
the legislature intended, in respect to deeds of insolvent debtors,
that the ordinary securities of enrolment should be dispensed
with. We think, then, that there was error in the circuit
court in admitting the proceedings under the Maryland insolvency; and also in instructing the jury that these proceedings
showed a legal title out of the plaintiff, and precluded a recovery in the suit.
For the same reasons, there was error in the refusal of the
circuit court to instruct the jury according to the prayer of the
plaintiff's counsel; that under the operation of the said proceedings in Pennsylvania and in Maryland, the legal title to
the premises was not divested from Greenleaf by any thing
shown by the defendant.
The judgment of the circuit court is therefore reversed, and
the cause is to be remanded to the circuit court, with directions to award a venire facias de novo.
Mr Chief Justice MARSI.ALL dissented from so much of the
foregoing opinion as requires the defendant to show that the lot
in the declaration mentioned, is not within that part of the exception contained in the deed from Greenleaf to Morris and
Nicholson, which excepts therefrom "all such squares, lots,
lands or tenements as were either conveyed, or sold, or agreed
to be conveyed, either by all or either of them, the said James
Greenleaf, Robert Morris and John Nicholson, or any of their
agents or attorneys, to any person or persons whatever, at any
time prior to the said 10th day of July 1795:" because he understood it to impose on the defendant the necessity of proving
a negative; and because the fact on which the exception depends, is within the knowledge of the plaintiff and not of the
defendant.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the re-

SUPREME COURT.
[Greenlezs Lessee v. Birth.]

cord from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Columbia, holden in and, for the county of Alexandria, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the
opinion of this Court, that there was error in the circuit court
in refusing to instruct the jury that the deed from Greenleaf
%orris and -Nieholson, in the first bill of exceptions mento M
tioned, unaccompanied by any other evidence, did not show
such an outstanding title as was sufficient to bar the plaintiff's
reeovery in this suit, as in the same bill of exceptions mentioned.
And it is further the opinidn of this court that there was error
in the €ircuit court in admitting the proceeding in the case of
the said James Greenleaf, an insolvent, before the chancellor
of Maryland, in the second bill of exceptions mentioned; and
also in instructing the jury that the act of assembly of Maryland of 1798, oh. 64, and proceedings of insolyency aforesaid,
did show a legal title out of the plaintiff, and did preclude a
recovery in this suit, on the first count in the plaintiff's declaration; and also in refusing to instruct the jury, that under
the operation of the proceedings in Maryland and Pennsylvani , in the same bill of exceptions mentioned, the legal title to
the premises in the declaration mentioned, notwithstanding
said conveyance, was not divested from the said James Greenleaf, by any thing by the defendant so as aforesaid shown, as
in the same bill of exceptions is mentioned. It is therefore
considered and adjudged by the court, that for the errors aforesaid, the judgmefit of thb said circuit court be, and the same is
hereby reversed, and the cause be remanded to the circuit court,
with directions to award a venire facias de novo.

