JANUARY TERM 1832.

DAVID

Ross,

PLAINTIFF IN

ERROR V. CHARLES

M'LUNG,

DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

Construction of the act of the legislature of North Carolina, concerning the registration ofdeeds, passed in 1715.

The questions which grow out of the language of this act, so far as they have
been settled by judicial decisions, cannot be disturbed by this court. Whatever might have been their opinion in this case had it remained open for consideration, the peace of society, and the security of titles require that the court
shvuld conform to the construction which has been made in the courts of the
state; if it can discover vWbat that construction is.
In the probate of deeds, the court has aspecial limited jurisdiction; and the record
should state facts which show its jurisdiction in the particular case. If this
rule he disrcgarded, every deed admitted to record, on whatever evidence,
must be considered as regularly admitted.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for the district of East Tennessee.
This was an action of ejectment instituted in the circuit
court by ihe plaintiff in error, for the recovery of five thousand
acres of land, situate in the district of East Tennessee.
On the trial of the cause, the plaintiff excepted to the opinion of the court in rejecting certain evidence offered by him
in support of his title from the original grantor, Stockley Donelson, holding under a patent from the state of North CarolinA. The 'dourt refused to admit the deed of conveyance to
the plaintiff, on the ground that'the same was not registered
according to the provisions of the law.
The bill of exceptions, containing the matters offered in evidence and rejected by the court, is stated in the opinion of
the court.
The case was argued by Mr Polk, for the plaintiff in
error; and by Mr White, for the defendant..
For the plaintiff it was contended, that the circuit cburt
erred:
1. In not permitting the deed of conveyance from Stockley
Donelson and John Hackett to David Ross, the lessor of the
plaintiff, to be read to the jury, on the certificates of probate
and registration indorsed on said deed.

SUPREME COURT.
[Ross v. M,'Lung.]

2. In not permitting parol testimony to be given to the
jury, to prove that said deed of conveyance had been duly
proven in the court of pleas, &c. for Hawkins county, according to the provisions of the law of that state.
3. In not permitting said deed to be read in evidence, without either certificate of probate or parol evidence of its having
been duly proven; as it had been on record in the register's
office for more than thirty years.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was an ejectment brought by the plaintiff in error in
the court of the United States for the seventh circuit and district of East Tennessee.
At the trial the plaintiff gave in evidence a patent from the
state of North Carolina to Stockley Donelson, which covered
the, lad in controversy. He then offered a deed of conveyance from the said Stockley Donelson ana John Hackett to
David Ross, the lessor of te plaintiff, for five thousand acres,
being the same land contained in the aforesaid grant, which
deed of conveyance is dated the 9th day of September 1793,
and is witnessed by Walter King, Thomas N. Clark, and
Meriwetber Smith; and of which deed of conveyance a copy
was annexed, and made apart of the bill of exceptions; and on
the back of said deed is the folloving indorsement of probate
and registration, viz.
December sessions, 1793. This deed was proven in open
court, and ordered to be, recorded. RICHARD MITCHELL,
Clerk.
This conveyance is registardd 27th December 1793, in liber
G, page 127, in the register's office of Hawkins county.
THOMAs:JA.CxsoW, C. R.
State Qf Tennessee. At a court of pleas and quarter sessions
began and held for the county of Hawkins, at the court-house
in Rogersville, on the second Monday of December 1793.
Present, Thomas Henderson, Isaac Lane, James Berry, and
Thomas Amey, Esquires. A deed of conveyance from Stockley Donelson and John Hackett to David Ross, proved in open
court by M. Smith that he saw Donelson sign for himself, and
signed as attorney for Haget, and ozered to be registered.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Ross v. M'Lung.]

State of Tennessee. I, Stockley D. Mitchell, clerk of the
court of pleas and quarter sessions of Hawkins county, in the
state aforesaid, do certify the foregoing to be a true copy from
the records of my office. Given under my hand, at office in
Rogersville, this 16th day of October, A.D. 1828. STOCKLEV
D. MITCHELL, Clerk of the Court of Pleas, &c. for Hawkins
county, Tennessee.
To the reading of which deed of conveyance on the prohates and registration aforesaid, the defendant objected, and
the court sustained the objection, and would not permit said
deed to be read. Plaintiff then offered to prove by Meriwether
Smith, who was one of the subscribing witnesses to said deed,
that he proved the execution of said deed in the court of pleas
and quarter sessions for Hawkins county, at December sessions
of said court, in the year 1793; and plaintiff also offered to
prove by Mitchell, whose name was subscribed to tlTe probate
on the back of said deed, that he, Richard Mitchell, was the
clerk of the court of pleas and quarter sessions for Hawkins
county in the year 1793; and that the'foregoing deed was the
one proved by Meriwether Smith, the subscribing witness
thereto, at December term of said court, in the year 1793; but
the court would not permit said proof to be given in support
of the probate of said deed.
Plaintiff offered to prove further, that said deed and grat
covered the land sued for, and that Anne Hackett, the defendant, was in possession at the time of the institution of this
suit; but said proof was rejected by the court. The jury
found a verdict for defendant, and lessor of the plaintiff moved
for a new trial, and produced and read the affidavit o? Thomas
Hopkins, trustee, annexed, marked C; but the court refused a
new trial.
Note.-While the cause was before the jury, plaintiff offered
to read a grant from the state of North Carolina to Stockley
Donelson and John Hackett, for five thousand acres of land,
dated the 22d day of February 1795; which last mentioned
grant also covered the land in dispute; which grant the court
considered as read to the jury.
The jury found a verdict for the defendant, the judgment
on which is brought before this court by a writ of error.

SUPREME COURT.
[Rom v. M'Lung.]

The plaintiff contends that the instructions given by the
court are erroneous, and that the deed from Donelson and
Hackett to Ross ought to have been admitted.
In the year 1715, the state of North Carolina passed an act
concerning the registration of deeds, the fifth section of which
is, in these words, "no conveyance or bill of sale for lands
other than mortgages, in what manner soever drawn, shall be
good and available in law, unless the same shall be acknowledged by the vendor, or proved by one or more evidences on
oath, either before the chief justice or in the court of the precinct where the land lieth, and registered by the public register of the precinct where the land lieth, within twelve months
after the date of the said deed; and that all deeds so drawn
and executed shall be valid and pass estates in land or right to
other estate, without livery of seisin, attornment or other ceremony in the law whatsoever."
Under this act two requisites are essential to the validity of
a deed:-probate; and registration in the precinct or county
in which the land lies. The proof which shall be sufficient to
establish these requisites, is not prescribed by the act with
such precision as to exclude difference of opinion respecting
it. But the questions which grow out of the language of the
act, so far as they have been settled by judicial decisions, cannot be disturbed by this court. Whatever might have been
our opinion on the case, had it remained open for consideration,
the peace of society and the security of titles require that we
should conform to the construction which has been made in the
courts of the state, if we can discern what that construction is.
The plaintiff contends that the deed ought to have been admitted on the certificates of probate and registration indorsed
on it. First, the certificate of probate. It is in these words,
"December session, 1783. This deed was proven in open
court and ordered to be recorded."
The act'requires that the deed should be acknowledged by
the vendor, or proved by one or more witnesses in the court
of the county in which the land lieth.
It appears to be universally understood that the proof ought
to be made by a subscribing witness to the deed; and certainly
an instiument to which there are subscribing witnesses ough.

JANUARY TERM 1832.

287

[Ross v. M'Lung.]

to be proved by some one of them, if any one be living. The
fact, too, to which the witness testifies ought to be stated on the
record, that a judgment may be formed on its sufficiency.
The order of the court that it should be recorded does not, the
defendant contends, cure this defect. The court proceeds ex
parte, in a summary manner, and the correctness- of its proceedings ought to appear on the record. Its judgment is not
presumed to be right as when acting in a regular course.
In Knox v. Bowman's Lessee, decided in the supreme court
of Tennessee, at Knoxville, on exceptions taken in the inferior
court, a question arose on the probate of a.deed indorsed thus,
"State of Tennessee, Washington county. At a court held
for the county of Washington on the first Monday of November 11S9, the within deed of conveyance from Bradley Gamble to Michael Massingile was proved in court by the oath Of
Starns. Given under my hand at office 27th of No.
vember 1819. JA~n;s SEvIER, Clerk."
This deed was admitted. On considering the exception
tAken to its admission, the court observed, "cthe clerk should
have given a copy from the minute-book verbatim, and not a
history of what had taken place; because the court, and not
he, must judge of the conclusions which are proper to be made
from the naked fact appearing on the record book. Had an
exact copy been given, the court should have presumed, after
such a lapse of time, at least until the contrary were shown,
that Starns was a subscribing witness." The court added;
"where enough is stated by the clerk to show that a witness
was sworn, or that the deed was acknowledged by the bargainor, however informally or unscientifically the clerk may
have expressed the fact, the legality of the probate or acknowledgement should-be enforced, and such old probate should be
presumed to have been made in the proper county until the
contrary appear."
The general principles laid down by the court in the last
sentence, show that every reasonable presumption will be made
to support an ancient probate where the entry has been informal or uhscientific; but the decision on the particular point
seems applicable to the very case before the court. The
clerk certifies that the deed was proved by the oath of Starns.
This is undertaking to know what in point of law is proof,

SUPREME COURT.
[Ross v. M'Lung.]

and to eertify his conclusion instead of stating the fact which
the witness did prove, so as to enable the court to draw the
inference of law from it. So in ihis case; instead of stating
the fact to which the witness testified, the clerk certifies that
the deed was proved. This, according to the decision in the
case cited, is, a legal inference which -the court alone could
draw from the fact as certified.
In the same case a deed was offered from Gales to the lessor
of the plaintiff, indorsed thus. "February session 1802. This
deed was legally admitted to record." The court allowed this
deed also to be given in evidence, and an exception was taken
to its admission. In commenting on this opinion the supreme
court observed, "it is not said in what county, nor upon what
ground, whether because proved by witnesses, or acknowledged by the bargainor, or for some other cause."
Both these exceptions were sustained, and the judgment of
the inferior court was reversed. The ground of reversal appears to be, that the certificate of probate stated the legal inference, without stating the fact from which that inference was
drawn. In the one case it was stated that the deed was proved
in court by the oath of Starns; in the other that it was legally
admitted to record. If legally admitted; it could not be material to inquire whether it was admitted on the acknowledgement of the vendor, or the proof of witnesses. The error,
therefore, must be, that the conel'4sion to which the court came
is indorsed on the deed, and not the fact which led to that conclusion. In the probate of deeds, the court has a special limited
jurisdiction; and the record should state facts which show its
jurisdicti r in the particular case. If this rule be disregarded,
every deed admitted to record, on whatever evidence, must
be considered as regularly admitted.
The counsel for the plaintiff has endeavoured to .cure this
defect in the indorsement on the deed, by a distinct entry made
in Hawkins county courtlat the same session of December 1793.
That entry is in these words. " At a court of pleas and quarter
sessions began and held for the county of Hawkins, at the court
house in Rogersville, on the second Monday of December 1793.
Present, Thomas Henderson, Isaac Lane, James Berry
and Thomas Amey, Esquires. A deed of conveyance from
Stockley Donelson and John Hackett, toDavid Ross, proved

JANUARY TERM 1s32.
[Ross v. M'Luog.]

in open court by Mr Smith, that he savw'Donelson sign for
himself, and signed as attorney for Haget, and ordered to be
registered."
"State of Tennessee. I, Stockley D. Mitchell 7 clerk of the
court of pleas and quarter sessions of Hawkins .county, in the
state aforesaid, do certify the foregoing to be a true copy from
the records of my office. Given under my hand at office it
Rogersville, this 16th day of October A.D. 1828. STOCKLEY
D. MITCHLLL, Clerk of the Court of Pleas, &c. for Hawkins
county, Tennessee.
The difficulty of applying this certificate to the deed offered
in evidence, is insurmountable. The deed offered in evidence
purports to have been executed by Stockley Donelson and John
Hackett, each for himself, and not by attorney. The probate
indorsed on the deed, represents it to have been so executed.
The entry certified by Stockley D. Mitchell in 1828, shows
tne probate of a deed executed by Stockley Donelson foT himself, and as attorney in fact for John Hackett. They cannot
be presumed to be the same. Stockley Donelson and John
Hackett may have conveyed more than one tract of land to
David Ross: and it is not at all improbable that Meriwether
Smith may have witnessed both deeds.
An attempt has been made to reconcile this incompatibility,
by parol testimony.. Richard Mitchell, who was clerk of the
court for Hawkins county in the year 1793, was offered as
a witness, to prove that the deed now offered in evidence was
the one proved by Meriwether Smith, the subscribing witness
thereto, at December term 1793, but the court would not permit this proof to be given in support of the deed; and to this
opinion, alsoi an exceptio- was taken.
This is an attempt by pardl testimony to vary a record. It is
an attempt to prove by the officer of the court, that his official
certificate of probate, indorsed on the deed, did not conform
to the true state of the proof. This is in such direct opposition to the settled rules of evidence, as to render it unnecessary
to remark the danger of trusting to memory in such a case after
a lapse of thirty-five years.
There are other objections to the admission of this certificate which would require very serious consideration, if it were
necessary to decide them, It is questioned whether the order
VOL.

I.-2 M

SUPREME COURT.
[Ross v. M'Lung.]

made on the second Monday of December 1793, even if it
related to the deed under which the plaintiff claims, could be
given in evidence, as it was not indorsed on the deed or registered with it. The plaintiff's counsel has cited several acts
of assembly, which are supposed to eettle this point in his fayour. It was fully considered in the case of Minick's Lessee
.v. Hodges, Brown and others, decided in the supreme cour,
of Tennessee, in July 1831. A decision on it is unnecessary,
because the court is satisfied that the order must relate to a
different deed.
We are of bpihion that there is no error in the opinions
given by the circuit court. The judgment is affirined, with
costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of East Tennessee, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is adjudged and ordered that the judgment of
the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

