SUPREME COURT.

JosBPH GRANT AND OTHERS V. E. AND

H.

RAYMOND.

Action for damages for an infringement of a patent rignt, granted to the plaintiff
in 1825. The patent recited that aformer patent had been issued in 1821, to tire
same person, for the same improvement, ,,which had been cancelled, owing
to the defective specification on which the same was granted." The exclusive
privilege given by the patent on which the suit was brought, is to continue fourteen years from the day on which the original was issued. On the trial, the defendants objected that the secretary of state had no power, by law, to accept a
surrender of, and to cancel the first letters patent; or to inquire into, and decide
upon the causes for so doing; or to grart the second patent for the same invention with an amended specification, for the unexpired poc:tion of the term of fourteen years which had been granted by the first patent. The circuit court of the
southern district of New York decided, in conformity with its former decisions,
that such surrender might be made when the defect arose from inadvertence or
mistake, and without any fraud or misconduct on the part of the patentee: and
that the secretary of state had authority to accept such surrender, arid cancel
the record of the patent; and to issue a new patent for the unexpired part of the
fourteen years granted under the first patent. By the court: It will not be pretended that this question is free from difficulty. But the executive departments, it is understood, have acted on the construction adopted by the circuit
court, and have considered it as settled. We would not willingly disregard
the settled practice, in a case where we are not satisfied it is contrary to law;
'and where we are satisfied it is tequired by justice and good faith.
To promote the progress of useful arts, is the interest and policy of every enlightened government. It entered into the views of the framers of our constitution, and the power "topromote the progress of science and useful arts by
securing, forlimited times, to authors and inventors, the exclusive right to their
respective writings and discoveries," is amongthose expressly given to congress.
It is the reward stipulated for advantages derived by the public for the exertions of individuals; and is intended as a stimulus to those exertions. The laws
which are passed to give effect to this purpose ought to be construed in the
gpikit in which they have been made, and to execute the contract fairly on the
part of the United States, where the full benefit, has been received; if this can
be dohe without transcending the intentions of the statuites, or countenancing
acts which are fraudulent, or may prove mischievotis.
If a mistake should be committed in the department of state, no one would say
it ought not be corrected. All would admit, that a new patent, correcting the
error, and which would secure to the patentee the benqfits which the law intended to secure, ought to be issued; and yet the law does not, in terms, authorise a new patent, even in such a case. Its emanation is not founded on
the words of the law, but it is indispensably necessary to the faithful execution
of the solemn promise made by the United States. Why should not the same
step be taken, for the same purpose, if the mistake has been innocently committed by the inventor himself?
The great object and intention of the act is to secure to the public the advantages to be derived from the discoveries of individuals; and the means it employs are the compensation made to those individuals for the time and labour

JANUARY TERM 1832.

219

[Grant and others v. Raymond.]
devoted to those discoveries, by the exclusive right to make up and sell the
things discovered for a limited time. That which gives complete effect to this
object and intention, by employing the same means for the correction of inadvertent error which are directed in the first instance, cannot be a departure
from the spirit and character of the act.
Quare, What would be the effect of a second patent, issued after an innocent
mist ke in the specification, on those who, skilled in the act for which It was
granted, perceiving the variance between the specifications and the machine,
had constructed, sold and used the machine. This question is not before the
court, and is not involved in the opinion given In the case. The defence, when
true in fact, may be sufficient in law, notwithstanding the validity of the new
patent.
The defendant in the circuit couit, in his plea, assigned the particular defect
supposed to exist In the specification, and then proceeded to answer in the very
words of the act, " that it does not contain a written description of the plaintiff's invention and improvement, and manner of using it, in such full, clear, and
exact terms, as to distinguish tile same from all other things before known, so
as to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the same. The plea
alleged in the words of the act, that the prerequisites to issuing a patent had
not been complied with. The plaintiffs denied the facts alleged in the plea,
and on this issue was joined. At the trial, the counsel for the defendants,
after the evidence was closed, asked the court to instruct the jury, that if they
should be of opinion that the defendants had maintained and proved the facts
alleged In their plea, they must find for the defendants. The court refused
this instruction, and instructed the jury that the patent would not be void on
this ground, unless such defective or imperfect specification or description arose
from design, or for the purpose of deceiving the public. By the court: The Instruction was erroneous, and the judgment of the circuit court ought to be reversed.
This instruction was material if the verdict ought to have been for the defendants;
provided the allegations of the plea were sustained, and if such verdict would
have supported &judgment in their favour; although the defect in the specification might not have arisen from design, and for the purpose of deceiving the
public. That such is the law, the court is entirely satisfied. The third section of the act requires, as preliminary to a patent, a correct specification and
description of the thing discovered. This Is necessary in order to give the
public, after the privilege shall expire, the advantage for which the privilege
Is allowed, and is the foundation of the power to issue a patent. The necessary consequences of the ministerial character in which the secretary acts, is,
that the performance of the prerequisites to a patent must be examinable in
any suit brought upon it. If the case was of the first impression, the court
would come to this conclusion; but it is understood to be settled.
Courts did not, perhaps, at first, distinguish clearly between a defence which
would authorise a verdict and judgment in favour of a defendant in an action
for the violalion of a patent, leaving the plaintiff free to use his patent, and to
bring other suits for its infringement; and ono which, if successful, would require the court to enter a judgment not only for the defendant in the particular case, but one which declares the patent to be void. This distinction is now
well settled.
If the party is content with defending himself, he may either plead specially, or
plead the general issue and give the notice required by the sixth section, of any

SUPREME COURT
[Grant and others v. Raymond.]
special matter he means to use at the trial. If he shows that the patentee has
failed in any of those prerequisites on which the authority to issue the patent
is made to depend, his defence is complete. He is entitled to the verdict of
the jury, and the judgment of the court. But if, not content with detending
himself, he seeks to annul the patent, he must proceed in precise conformity
with the sixth section. If he depends on evidence "tending to prove that the
speeification filed by the plaintiff does not contain the whole truth relative to
his discovery, or that it contains more than is necessary to produce the desired
effect;" Itinay avail him so far as respects himself, but will not justify a judgment declaring the patent void; unless "such concealment or addition shall
fully appear to have been made for the purpose of deceiving the public;" which
purpose must be found by the jury, to justify a judgment of vacatur.
The defendant is permitted -to proceed according to the sixth section, but
is not prohibited from proceeding in the usual manner, so far as respects his de.
fence; except that special matter may not be given in evidence on the general
issue, unaccompanied by the' notice which the sixth section requires. The
sixth section is not understood to control the third. The evidence of fraudulent intent is required only in the particular case, and for the particular purpose
stated in the sixth section.

THIS case came before the court, in the first instance, on a
certificate of division in opinion in the circuit court of the
United States for the southern district of New York.
On inspecting the record, it appeared that on the trial of the
ca tse in the circuit court, the counsel for the defendants had
excepted to the decisions of the coert on various matters which
had been presented for the consideration of the court and that a
bill of exceptions had been sealed by the court on their motion.
The record proceeded to state, that the cause afterwards
came on for -argument on a motion for a new trial, when the
opinions of the two judges of the circuit court were opposed
upon question&, presented for the decision of the court, excevted to on the trial, as stated in the bill of exceptions: "that
upon the questions thus occurring before the court, the opinions of the said two judges were opposed; and upon request
of the counsel for the plaintiffs, the points upon which the disagreement happened, were stated under the direction of the
judges, and certified under the gea'l of the court to the Supreme
Court."
Mr Webster stated, that a question, preliminary to the argunwnt of the case, was presented for the decision of the court.
It was, whether the court would entertain the case as it came
up from the circuit court on a division in that court on a mo-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Grarnt nd others v. Riymand.]

tion for a new trial. This court had exercised their right to
decide in cases where the opinions of the judges of the circuit
court on questions of law had been opposed, when a motion
for a new trial was before the court.
Mr Justice Story. In the cases referred to, the division
of the court took place on the trial of the cause before the jury,
as well as on the motion for a new trial.
lr Chief Justice Af arslhall suggested that the case might
be brought on if the parties would agree that it-should stand as
if a judgment had been given by the circuit court on the exceptions. The case, he said, could not be heard on a difference in opinion of the judges of the court, on a.motion for anew trial.
The counsel for the plaintiffs and defendants having agreed
that the case should stand as suggested by the chief justice, and
an agreement in writing to that effect having been filed, the
court made the following order.
It is now here by the court considered and ordered, that
this cause shall now be beard and decided, as on a writ of error
brought after verdict and judgment in the circuit court, on the
exceptions which were taken in that court; that the cause shall
now proceed, as if judgment had been actually entered in the
circuit court for the plaintiffs there, and that the certificate in
the case shall be taken, regarded and treated as a writ of error,
sued out by the defendants below, on the judgment of the ciicuit court, and that the question shall be, as in other cases,
whether the said judgment ought to be reversed or affirmed:
but that this court will reserve its opinion and judgment in
this cause till the defendants in the court below shall have
sued out a writ of error in this cause to the said circuit court,
and filed a return thereto, with a bill of exceptions in this
cause, in the usual form, signed by the court below, in this
court
The case came on for argument, after the defendants had
sued out a writ of error on a judgment entered in the circuit

SUPREME COURT.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.]

court for the plaintiffs, in conformity with the suggestion and
order of this court, The case was as follows:
The action was brought to recover damages for an alleged
infringement of a patent right, and came on for trial in the
circuit court in November 1828, when a verdict was rendered
for the plaintiffs for three thousand two hundred and sixty-six
dollars sixty-six cents.
The plaintiffs gave in evidence a patent from the United
States, in the following terms, the same being the patent declred upon:
"Whereas Joseph Grant, a citizen of the United States,
hath alleged that he hath invented a new and useful improvement in the mode of manufacturing hat bodies by the combination of motions, viz. the rotatory and revolving motion,
with the vibrating or transverse motion, which forms the two
hat bodies by machinery, and crosses the wool from one extremity of the hat bodies to the other at one operation, called
Grant's improved winding machine for setting up hat bodieshis former patent for the same invention, dated the lth day
of August 1821, ha-Ving been cancelled, owing to the defective
specification on which the same was granted-which improvemernt he states had not been known OF used b fore his applicalion-hath made oath that he does verily believe that he is the
true inveator or discoverer of the said improvement; hath paid
into the treasury of the United States the sum of thirty dollars,
delivered a receipt for the same, and presented a petition to the
secretary of state, signifying a desire of obtaining an exclusive
property in the said improvement, and praying that a patent
may be granted for that purpose.
"These are, therefore, to grant, according to law,, to the said
Joseph Grant, his heirs, administrators or assigns, for the term
of fourteen years, from the I1th day of Au gust 1ib2, the full
and exclusive right and liberty of making,,constructing, using,
and vending to others to 'be used, the said improvement, a
description wheroof is given in the words of the said Joseph
Grant himself infhe schedule hereunto annexed, and is made
a part of these presents.
f"In testimony whereof, I have caused these letters to be made
patent, and the seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed.
Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, this 28th

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.]

day of April, in the year of our Lord 1825, and of the-independence of the United States of America the forty-ninth.

[L. s.]

J. Q. ADAms.

By the President H. CLAY, Secretary of State.
City of Washington, to wit:-I do hereby "certify, that the
foregoing letters patent were delivered to me on the 28th day
of April in the year of our Lord 1825, to be examined; that
I have examined the same, and find them conformable to law,
and I do hereby return the sime to the secretary of state within fifteen days from the date aforesaid, to wit, on this28th day
of April, in the year aforesaid.
WILLIAM WMT,

Attorney General of the U. S.
The schedule referred to in these letters patentr :ird making
part of the same, contained a description, in the words of the
said, Joseph Grant himself, of his improvement in the mode of
manufacturing hat bodies by the combination of motions, viz.
the rotary or revolving motion, with the vibrating or transverse motion, which forms the two hat bodies by machinery,
and crosses the wool from one 'extremity of the hat bodies to
the other at one operation, called Grant's improved winding
machine for setting up hat bodies; his former patent for the
same invention, dated on the I1th day of August, A.D. 1821,
having been cancelled, owing to the defective specification on
which the same was granted.
The schedule, which contained a full description of the invention, and of the mode of using it, was also given in evidence.
The counsel for the plaintiffs also produced and read in evidence a certificate of the secretary of state, duly authenticated
under his hand and official seal, and certain papers thereto annexed, in the words and figures following:
To all to whom theselpresents shall come, greeting:
I certify that the annexed is a true copy of the record of
cancellation of a patent granted to Joseph Grant on the 11th of
August 1821, and cancelled on the 28th of April, A. D. 1825;
also, that the annexed is a true copy of the petition praying
for the cancellation, and the issuing of another patent for the
same invention.
In testimony whereof, I, Henry Clay, secrqtary of state of
the United States, have hereunto subscribed my rmme, and

SUPREME COURT.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.]

caused the seal of the department of state to be aflized. Done
at the city of Washington, this 19th day of Mmy A.D 1828,
and of the independence of the United States of America, the
fifty-second.
H. CLAY.
[1L. s.]
broken,
seal
the
office,
patent
the
to
returned
This patent was
specification
defective
the
to
owing
cancelled,
stands
and now
on which it was issued, and another patent granted (with a
corrected specification), on the g8th day of April 1825, bearing
date with the first, and for the-same invention.
The petition of Joseph Grant, of Providence, in the county
of Providence, and state of Rhode Island, hatter,, a citizen of
the United States of America, respectfully represents, that
your petitioner has invented a new and useful improvement in
the mode of manufacturing hat bodies by the combination of
motions, viz. the rotatory or revolving motion with the vibrating or traverse motion, which forms the two hat bodies by
nachinery, and crosses the wool frowi one extremity of the hat
jodies to the other at one operation, called "Grant's improved
winding machine for setting up hat bodies," according to the
specification, explanations, and drawings, herewith presented;
which the subscriber prays may be taken as a part of his petition-an improvement not used or known before his application, the advantages of which your petitioner is desirous of
securing to himself and his legal representatives.
Your petitioner would further state, that he has, heretofore,
viz. on the I1th day of August, A.D. 1821, obtained letters
patent from the president of the United States for his said improvement, but, 6wing to a defective specification on which
the same were grantdd, he prays that the said patent may be
cancelld, and a new and correct one grafited, embracing the
same improvements, so far as thie same are set forth in the accompanying specification, drawing, and explanations. Your
petitioner therefore prays that letters patent of the United
States may be issued, granting to your petitioner, hisheirs,
administrators, or assigns, the full and exclusivefight of making,
constructing, using, and vending to others to be tused, his'said
improvement, according to the specification and drawings
hereto annexed, agreeably to the act of congress in such case
made and provided; your petitioner having paid thirty dollars

JANUARY TERM 1S32.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.]

into the treasury of the ljnited States, and complied with
othr provimons of the said act. As in duty bound, will ever
pray.

JosE PH GRANT.

To the Hon. Henry Clay, Secretary of State of the United
States of America.
Providence, d pril 20, 1825.
As the assignee of David Curtis, who Was the assignee of
Joseph Grant, of one moiety of the original patent, I 'unite in
the prayer of the above petitioner, that the original patent may
be cancelled, and a new one granted to the said Joseph Grant,
as above set forth.
SOLonox TowNEND.
To the Ion. Henry Clay, Secretary of State of the United
States of America.
Providence,.1pril 20, 1925.
The counsel for the defendant objected that the secretary of
state had no power, by law, to accept a surrender of and to
cancel said letters patent, cr to inquire into or decide upon the
causes for so doing, or to grant said second putent for the same
invention, with an amended specification, for the unexpended
portion of the term of fourteen years, which had been granted
by the first patent.
The court decided that such surrender might be made, when
the defect in the specification arose from inadvertence or mistake, and without any fraud or misconduct on the part of the
patentee; and that the secretery of state had authority to accept
such surrender, and cancel the record of the patent, and to
issue a new patent for the unexpired part of the fourteen years
granted under the old patent in manner aforesaid. To which
decision the counsel for the defendant excepted.
The fourth plea, filed on the part of the defendant, after reciting the specification annexed to the patent of the plaintiffs,
averred as follows: "and the defendants aver that said specification does not correctly or accurately describe the improvement claimed.by the said Joseph Grant as his invention; but
said specification, and the drawings thereto annexed, are altogether defective in this, among other things, namely: in said
specification no proportions, sizes, or distances, are given, and
the bigness or size of none of the principal parts of said machine is given in said specifications or drawings, but the same
is wholly omitted; and, in other particulars, said specification
VOL: VI.-2 D

SUPREME COURT.
[Grant and o;hers v. Raymond.]

and drawings. are allogether defective. And the defendants
aver that said specification, annexed to and making part of said
letters patent, with the drawings thereto annexed, do not contain a written description of hi6,.the said Joseph Grant's invention and improvement aforesaid, and manner of using it, in
such full, clear, and exact terms as to distinguish the same
irom all other things before known, and so as to enable any
person skilled in the art of which said machine or improvement is A branch, or with which it is most nearly connected,
to make and use the same; and that, for the cause aforesaid,
said letters patent are void. All which the defendants- are
ready to verify; wherefore they pray judgment if the said

Joseph Grant and Solomon Townsend ought to have or maintain their aforesaid action against them, and for their cnqt, "
To which plea the following replication was filed:

And as to the said plea of the said Eliakim Raymond and
Henry Raymond, by them fourthly above pleaded, the, said
Joseph Grant and Solomon Townsend say, that, by reason of
any thing in the said lasL mefitioned plea alleged, they ought
not to be barred from having and maintaining their aforesaid
action thereof against them, the said Eliakim Raymond and
Henry Raymond, because they say that the specification mentioned in the said last mentioned plea does correctly and accurately describe the improvement claimed by the said Joseph
Grant, as his invention; and because they'say fnrther,,that
neither the said specification, nor the drawings thereto annexed, are defective in any of the particulars in th.at behalf
alleged in the said last mentioned plea; and this they, the said
Joseph Grant and Solomon Townsend, pray may be inquired
of by the country; and the said Eliakiim Raymond and Henry
Raymond do the like, &e.
The counsel for the defendants on the said trial introduced
sundry witnesses to prove the allegations traversed in the said
fourth plea, and insisted that they had proved the same, and
that the said specification of-the said Joseph Grant did not describe the improvement which he claimed to have invented, in
such full, clear, and exact terms as to distinguish the same from
all other things before known, nor so as to enable a person
skilled in the art or science of which it is a branch, or with
which it is most nearly connected, to make and use the same;

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.]

&ad-they requested the court to charge the. jury, that if they
found thae'the defendants had maintained and proved their
averments in that respect, that they must find the same for the
defendants; -which instructions" fhe court refused to give, but
instructed the jury that th6 patent would not b3 yoid on thi
ground, unless such defective or imperfect specificatiorvor de,
scription arose from design, ard for the purpose af deceiving
the public; to which opinion the counsel for the defendants
also excepted.
The case was argued by Mr Webster, for the defendan'ts in
the circuit court, now beford the court as plaintiffs in orror;
and by Mr Ogden, for the defendants, plaintiffs in the circuit
courL
Mr Websterstated, that the first question for the decision of
the court, was whether the secretary of state can accept th6
surrender of a patent, cancel it, and grant a new one for the
unexpired term for which a patent had been granted,on a suggestion that the specification is defective through inadVertence
or mistake?
It cannot but be doubted whether such cancellation can be
made any where, so as to take out a new patent.
The whole system of patents rests on statute provision.
There is no common law power, or prerogative right, in the
president to issue a patent. In this particular, our law is different from the English. Ours is a stattite grant; theirs is an
emanation out of a statute prohibition. With us, the fountain is
statute; with them,prerogative. Our statute makes no provision for any surrender, and the issuing of a new patent thereon.
Indeed, it seems impossible to reconcile such a proceeding to
the requisitions of the act.
How can the patentee allege, or assign for his second patent, that his improvement had not been known before that
application. That is a statute requisition; here, in the case
before the court, it had been in use three years. The party
must claim, and in this case does claim, under his second patent, as a new and substantive patent; not under his first, with
an amended specification.
, On surrender or cancellation of the patent, the party comes
for a new patent, for the same invention. Now, in all such-

SUPREME COURT.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.]

cases, it must be that the thing has been used or known before
that application. In this very case, it does not appear tat nis
petition contained the statute requisites; it refers it to hisformer application.
But however this may be, the secretary of state has no
authority to make a record of cancellation, and to issue a
new patent. The secretary of state is a merely ministerial
officer. All the laws relating to granting patents regard him as
merely ministerial. His department is denominated an executive department. He has no where any particle of judicial
power. On the subject of patents, as well as all others, he
acts wholly ministerially.
By the first patent law, April 10, 1790, the secretaries of
state, war, and attorney-general, were invested with authority
to grant or refuse patents. But this was repealed by the existing law of February 21, 1793. The power of granting or
withholding patents, was b§ this act taken away from every
body. The secretary was to give the patent out, on certain
requisitions being complied with, without exercising any judgment, or making any inquiry; and the patent was to avail the
grantee what it might, according to the truth of the representations of the patentee. It is matter of right, and matter of
course, to issue the patent; if the re~luisites of the law be
complied with. The secretary has nothing to do but make
out the patent.
He is applied to as keeper of the seal. And if a dispute
arises between inventors, the secretary cannot decide it; he
is to appoint umpires. Sect. 9. He is not trusted to decide
even whether theform of the letters patent be conformable to
law; that belongs to the attorney-general.
The general power of the secretary is commented on in
Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 159, 160. He is to record
diplomatic transactions; but le cannot alter or cancel those
records. He records treaties and acts of congress; but those,
of course, he cannot alter.
The secretary has no power to record in his office any
transaction, not his own, except so far as authorised by statute.
In regard to patents, the statute declares what shall be recorded.
1. The patent itself. 2. The assignment of it, if requested.

JANUARY TERM 1832
[Grant and o,hcrs v. Raymond.]

These are all. The secretary has nothing more to do. As to
cancelling a patent, he isfunctus officio.
The breaking the seal, or other cancellation *bythe patentee
of his patent, is just as effectual if done any where else as if
done at the state department. It is not a transaction which
the law has prescribed for recording any where. He can
neither authorise this cancellation; nor forbid it; nor make it
matter of official record.
The vacating and cancelling the reeord -of a patent is in its
nature a judicial act. The act of 1793 treats it as such, and
provides two modes of such vacation. Cited the 6th and 10th
sections of the act.
The common law, also, provides a mode. The court cannot add a niew section to the act.
In England, the repealing of patents is always regarded as
a judicial act. Godson on Patents, 200.
The limitations, under which the cotfrt below'thought the
secretary could vacate one patent and issue another, show
that the power he is expected to exercise is judicial. The
defect must arise from inadvertence or mistake, without fraud
or misconduct. The .power of the secretary to act, then, depends upon his having adjudged the case to be one of mistake,
and not a case of fraud. This is judicial power. How can
the secretary make this judicial investigation.
1. He has no parties before him, and no power to bring
persons before him. When done in court, this is done in the
presence of litigant parties. 2. He cannot summon witnesscs before him, and if they should come voluntarily, he Cannot adminiAer an oath to them. Such oaths would be extrajudicial and nugatory. He cannot require the party's own oath.
Now, whether te want of a proper specification be the effect
of accident or of fraud, is a question of fact; and it is to be decided by the secretary, without parties, oaths or witnesses.
Bezides, the surrender is to be accepted only when the specilicatiun is defective. Is not that very question a question
of fact, or a mixed question of law and fact? Certainly it is,
It is for the jury: even a court cannot d'eternine it without
a jury.
By act of April 20th, 1818, the secretary of state appoints a
superintcdent. Does he delegate to him his judicial power?

SUPREME COURT.
[Grant and othero v. Raymond.]

There is but one way of answering this view of the subject.
It must be contended, that in every case, on the mere suggestion of the patentee, a new patent is to be issued for the residue of the term, with an amended specification: leaving it to
be decided, w'hen suit should be brought, whether the defect
was inadvertent or fraudulent.
This would change the whole patent system. Its effects
would be monstrous. Patentees would try their claims under
one specification; they might fail; and they would call it inadvertence, and try another experiment.
A man builds an expensive factory, puts in costly machinery, not patented, not described in any specification; he
expends much money; by and by, he is sued for violating a
patent, and he finds that, since he built, an old patent has
come out with a new specification. A hearing, of which he
knew nothing, has been had before the secretary, and a new
patent has issued, and he is called on to stop his factory.
Now this supposed case is the very case before the eourt,
The defendants erected their works in 1823, 1S24. They
knew of the plaintiff's patent of August 11, 1821, but it did
not describe any machinery uged by them. But in 1825 he
surrendered his first patent, took out another, with a specification describingtheir machinery, and sued them. Under the
direction of the court he has recovered a verdict forthree thousand two hundred and sixty-six dollars; and is entitled, of
course, to have this trebled, and the defendants are ruined.
Is this legal? A bill in equity is pending also, to stop the
defendants' factory.
Now, what reason is there for saying that defendants shall
suffer these.losses, even by the mistake or inadvertence of the
patentee, The invention hail become public, and if not protected by the first patent, it was gone forever. A bad patent
is no patent. 1 Barn. & Aid. 386. It may be well for congress to give the courts or judges power to vacatd patents on
patentee's own motion; but then congress would provide lim.tations and securities for innocent persons. On the doctrine
of this case there are no securities.
What are- the consequences of such a principle? A man
finds out there are other m.chines made like his, which he

JANUARY TERM 1832.

231

[Grant and otbers v. Raymond.]
would like to stop; he sets up inadveRtence, gets a new patent,
and stops them. If he swears it, who can den.4t it? It is of
younger dale, and he swears he meant to describe it. Thi would furnish irresistible temptation to perjury.
There is a deeper objection. A man makes an invention;
he gets a patent, but his specification does not describe it, but
describes something else. In the meantime, the public use,
not what he has patented, but what he has hot. Now, how
is the public to be deprived of the use of this? It is denied that they can be prevented this use. The decision of
this court in Pennock v. Dialogue, proves this cannot be.
The invention was used and known before it was patented.
A patent, not describing an invention, is void as to that invention, and does not protect it. The invention, by a single
month's use, unprotected by a patent, becomes public property
and can never be resumed.
Whether the patent be void through fraud or inadvertence,
if it does riot describe the invention, then the invention is not
protected, but hds become public property. Pennock v. Dialogue so decides.
In England a scire facias to repeal a patent is a criminal
proceeding, and does riot allow costs. 7 Term Rep. 367; Godson, 201.
This case was tried in New York before Pennock v. Dialogue was decided in this court.
The only case applicable to the one now before the court is
Morris v. 'Huntington, 1 Paine, 348. That was decided, in
1824. Its doctrine was materially changed by Pennock and
Dialogue. After all, that case only decides, that a patent, while
another is in existence, is void. The judge then goes on to
say, it may be surrendered.
It seems admitted that the new patent ought notto reach back
so as to affect those who had already used the invention. But
how can this distincfion be made? . Cited to this point, Brooke
v. Clarke, 1-B. and A. 396, note.
The great and conclusive objection is this; the new patent
is granted on the new application, and the ihvention had been
public four years. This is fully settied in he case of Pennock
v. Dialogue.
The second point is presented on the defendants' fourth plea.

SUPREME COURT.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.]

The court instructed the jury that the patent would not be void,
unless the defective or imperfect specification arose from design, or the purpose of deceiving the public.
This point presents two questions.
1. Whether the patent would be void or not, for the reawns
stated; the direction of the court was not pertinent to the issue.
The parties were at issue on a question bf fact; witnesses
were examined, and counsel had summed up; but the court
told the jury the issue was immaterial,and under this question the jury found a verdict for plaintiff.
It can require no argument to prove that this is an illegal
direction. 2 Day's Reports, 519; 1 Starkie, 388; 9 Cranch,
339, 355.
2. If the question had legally arisen, the law was wrongly
stated.
It is insisted, that the plea was a good bar. If the specification was defective, as set forth in the plea, the plaintiff could
not recover, whether that defect arose from accident or design.
The very words of the third section of the statute require
this. There are certain conditions precedent to be complied
with, before an inventor can obtain a patent. This is one
of them. The language of this section is emphatic andi
absolute; it could not be stronger. Courts may just as well
dispene with the oath.
Suppose he omit to deliver any written specification whatever; can he afterwards say that omission was owing to inadvertence? Yet a defective, or bad specification,is no specification. The same law that requires a written specification,
requires a full and accurate one. A defective one is no
better than none at all. Suppose he omit to sign the specification, can that be cured?
-A party is to describe his invention so as to answer two purposes:
1. To distinguish it from all other things before known.
2. To enable any person skilled in the art to make and use it.
If he fail in either of these, he fails in a condition precedent.
This is all very clear, and there would be no doubt about it
but for the sixth section. That section has been supposed to
raise the doubt.
This section as has been observed by most judges, is inart-

JANUARY TERM 1832.

233

(Grant and others v. Raymond.]

fully drawn. It speaks of the right of a defendant to give this
act in evidence, in an actionfounded on the act itself. It
is not grammatical. It seems borrowed from the law of 1791.
The first important remark is, that the preceding sections
have described the whole extent of the patentee's right. This
section has for its object, the giving of immunities and protection to those who may be sued by patentees. Therefore, its
object was not to enlarge the right of patentees. Second, most
of its provisions are only affirmative, and the right existed before. The action being case, all the mterial defences are
competent. Third, it gives some matters as a defence not
mentioned in the first act, such as license or abfildonment to
the public. Fourth, it does not repeat the same objections
to specification.
It allows the defendant to prove three things as fatal defects
in his specification. 1. That it does not contain the whole
truth relative to the discovery, with intent to deceive the public.
This provision may stand with the first section. 2. That it
contains more than is necessary to produce the described effect;
with intent to deceive the public. This may stand with the
third section. 3. That the thing had been used, or described
in a public work. This may also stand.
Now, the fraudulent intent is applied only to the two first.
In these cases congress may say that fraud shall be proved;
because , even with"these defects, it may be a patent, and a very
useful patent.
It tray be a valid patent, though the patentee take it but for
part of his invention; yet if he fraudulently deceive the public
by keeping part back, it shall be void. So it may be a good
and valuable patent, though it contain more than is necessary
to produe the described effect. But if it be not so described
as to be distinguished from other things before known, orso that
skilful persons can use it, it is no patent, or of no use at all.
These last objections go to its very existence; and are therefore made prerequisites. They are absolute conditions precedent.
But the main consideration yet is, that this sixth section has
an object of its own. It looks, not so much to the defence in
its suits, as to the judicialvacation of the patent. It does
not look mainly to the defence of the suits, because it leaves
VOL. VI.-2 E

SUPREME COURT.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.]

out several known grounds of defence. 1. License. 2. Abandonment to the public. 3. That the patent is broader than the
invention. 4. That the machine is not well described. All
these are defences, and yet not mentioned here.
The object of the sixth section is like that of the tenth, to
repealfor fraudproved. All this may stand, without contradicting the third section, or doing violence to its language.
Indeed, Pennock and Dialogue, 2 Peters, 1, has apparently
decided this. The sixth section speaks of inventions known
before the patentee's discovery. This does not contradict the
third section-", known before application." The court has
settled this, and it decides this case.
The plaintiff relied below on the following cases. Park v.
Little and Wood, 3 Washingtdn, 196, in April 1813; Gray et
al. v. James, 1 Peters's C. C. Rep. 401, 1817.
But it does not appear in this case whether the defendant
was or was nbt proceeding with a view to vacate the patent.
Most probably he was; for at that time such was the practice.
This is rendered still more probable by a decision looking the
other way in 1820, by the sL[me judge. Kneass v. Schuylkill
Bank; 4 Wash. C. C. Rep. 13. This case is clearly for the
plaintiffs in error.
Thp case of Whittemore v. Cutter, 1 Gallison, 419, decided
in May 1813, was probably a case to vacate; at any rate the
judges doubted, and would have divided if the case had turned
on this point. The case of Lowell v. Lewis, 1 Mason, 183,
in 1817, was probably a similar case; page 189 cited patticularly.
How can the court dispense with the express words of the
third section. Here they are put into the form of a specialplea;
can they be disregarded? Suppose there be but one witness;
though this is merely a fdrmal requisite, can the court dispense with it?
Besides, why should the statute require a specification,
unless it was to be full and accurate? For what purpose
should an insufficient speciflcation be enjoined? The court
may as well say there shall be none. The statute says as imperatively what -the specification shall contain, as that there
shall be a specification at all. If an imperfect ur defective
'specification does not render a patent void, what harm does
it do to it? Let this question be answered.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Grant and others v. Raymond ]

Now, the patentee says his specification in 1821 was defective, not through fraud, but defective. But why was not
that patent good, or this? If defective thrcigh fraud he ctuld
not get another. It must be presumed to be defective throughl
inadvertence. If so, what need of a new one?
Compare the two rules of law decided in this case together.
1. The judge held, that party might surrender his patent
and take a new one, when the specification in the first was defective through mistake, and without fraud. 2. The court
ruled, that though a specification be altogether defective, yet
the patent is not void, unless such defect arise from design.
How can these things stand together? If the last proposition
be true, all inquiry about the first is idle; unless the question
be, whether a man having one good patent may surrender it
and take out another good one for the same thing.
It is now matter of settled law, that if a patent be broader
than the invention it is void; and it is never inquired whether
this arise from design or accident. In nine times out of ten
it arises from inadvertence. Now, on what principle is this ?
Notbecause the plaintiff's invention has not been invaded. It
may have been exactly copied. It is because he has not
rightly described what he claimed, and therefore his patent
protects him in nothing.
So if a patent be for an improvement of an old machine, it
must state the improvement accurately, and distinguish between what is old and what new.
Finally, the English statute has always been construed the
other way.
Our sixth section is a substitute for the English scire facias.
Cited Davis's Patent Cases, 413; Godson, 124; Holroyd, 100,
note.
Cited also Dodson's Patents, 56; 1 Term Rep. 605; 1 Wash.
C. C. Rep. 71; 3 Wash. C. C. Rep. 198; 1 Mason, 189, 190;
4 Id. 9, 10; 3 Wheat. 518; 2 Hen. Black. 478; 1 Ves. and
Beames, 67; 8 Term Rep. 101; 2 Car. and Paine, 558, 565;
11 East, 107; 14 Ves. 131.
Mr Ogden, for.the defendants in error.
The first question is, whether the secretary of state of the
United States has a power by law to accept of the surrender of

SUPREME COURT.
[Grant nd others v. Raymond.]

and to cancel a patent which had once been issued, and to
grant a second patent for the same invention, with an amended
specification for the unexpired portion of the term of fourteen
years which had been granted by the first patent?
Upon this question there is not known a single case where
the point has been expressly decided in the United States. The
patent law is silent upon the subject; and the question must
then be decided upon general principles.
A patent for a useful machine is a grant of the exclusive
privilege of making and using the machine for a limited time.
Now it would seem that a grantee may surrender his grant.
A man who has a privilege may surrenderthat privilege. If
a man cancels his patent upon record, it amounts to a surrender of it.
The difficulty in the question, if there be any, must be in
the other branch of it. Has the secretary of state the power
after the surrender of one patent to grant a new one for the
same invention, with an amended specification for the unexpired portion of the term of fourteen years which had been
granted by the first patent? Why should he not? When the
first patent is cancelled, the invention is unprotected. If a
useful one, why should not the inventor have the benefit of iL?
He certainly never intended to abandon the benefit of it to
the public. His first patent is evidence of that.
A specification requires to be drawn with great accuracy.
Mechanics, by whom machines are usually invented, it cannot
be supposed are capable of drawing a proper specification.
Can it be supposed that the law ever -intended to punish their
ignorance in drawing a very special legal paper by a forfeiture of all the advantages of their invention?
It is apprehended that the issuing a new patent in England,
where there has been no sufficient ipeeification to comply
with the condition of the first patent, is pretty much a matter
of course.
In the case Ex parte Beck, 1 Bro. Cb. Rep. 575, the lord
chancellor says, "that perhaps upon the petitioner's applying
for a new patent, the officers might, under these circumstances,
be~induced to remit their fees; but that he could give no relief upon the present petition."
Here the lord chancellor
speaks of the issuing of a new patent as a matter of course.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Gkant and others v. Raymond.]

In our patent law, the inventor must file his specification before he can procure his patent. In England, the patent contains upon its face a condition that if the patentee shall not
make and file a specification within a limited time a(fter the
date of the patent, then the patent, and all the liberties and
advantages under it, shall cease and be void.
One of the eases cited by the plaintiff in error shows that
the specification is not filed within the time mentioned in the
patent; although the patent is void, a new one may be taken
out by the inventor for the same invention.
This case, in principle, seems to support the proposition for
which the defendant in error contends; that if a firstpatent isvoid
for want of a specification, or for want of a sufficient specificStion, a new one may be issued for the same invention to the
sameinventor. In the case of Morris v. Huntington, 1 Paine's
Rep. of Cases in the Second Circuit, 355, )Ir Justice Thompson
says, "I see no insuperable objection to enterin g a vacatur
of the patent of record in the department of state, if taken
out inadvertently, or.by mistake. All the proceedings in that
department on the subject of patents are ex parte,except in
the case of interfering applications. The department acts rather
ministerially than judicially, and upon the representation of
the applicant, without entering into an examination of the
question of right; and there seems to be no good reason why
on a like exparle application, the patent may not be surrendered and cancelled of record, if no misconduct be imputable
Cited also page 356.
to the patentee in taking it out."
So far then ;s this question has ever arisen in any of our
courts, the right to surrender an old patent and procure a new
one has been recognized. Cited also Barrett et al. v. Hall, 1
Mason, 4755 as to the second point.
The second point is settled by the express terms of the patent law, and by the adjudications which have taken place
under it.
1. By the express terms of the patent law.
The sixth section of the patent act declares, "that the defendant shall be permitted to plead the general issue, and give
this act and any special matter in evidence, of which notice in
writing must have been given, &c. thirty days before the trial;
tending to prove that the specification filed by the plaintiff

SUPREME COURT.
rGrmwtnd others v. Rkymond.]

does not contain theawhole truth relative to ihe discovery, or
that it contains more than is necessary to produce the described
effect, which concealment or addition shall fully appear to have
been madefor the purpose of deceifing the public, 8c. 4.c.
So, therefore, if the specification does not contain 'the whole
truth relative to the discovery, or if it contains more than is
necessary to produca the described effect, the patent shall not,
for these causes, or either of them, be evidence unless "the
concealment or addition shall fully appear to have been 'made
for the purpose of deceiving the public."
2. By the adjudications which have taken place under the
law.
The first case in which the question came up, was the case
of Whitney v. Carter, in the circuit court of G~orgia. That
case is cited in Mr Fessenden's Essay on the Law of Patents,
123.
His honour, Judge Johnson, in charging the jury in that
case, said, "he considered the defendants' second objection
equally unsupported, and referred to the sixth section of the
patent law, by which it is required that the concealment alleged
(in order to defeat the patentee's recovery) must appear to
have been made for the purpose of deceiving the public.
That Mr Whitney could have no motive for such conceal.,
ment," &c. &c.
In the case of Gray and Osgood v. James et al. 1 Peters's C.
C. Rep. 394, this question came up before the circuit court in
Judge Washington says, "but if the jury
Pennsylvania.
-should be of opinion that the specification is materially defective, the objection will not be sufficient to invalidate the plaintif's patent, unless they should also be satisfied that the concealment of the circumstances not described, was intended to
deceive the public."
In the case of Whittemore v. Cutter, 1 Gallis. 429, Mr Justice
Story says, "any defect or concealment in a specification to
avoid a patent, must arise from an intention to deceive the
public." In the case of Lowell v. Lewis, 1 Mass. 189, the
same learned judge makes a similar declaration.
Mr Chief Justice
Court.

MARSUALL

delivered the opinion of the

JANUARY TERM 1'832.

239

[Grant aud others v. Raymond.1

This action wag brotight by Grant and Townsend against
E. and H. Raymond, to recover damages for an infringement
of their right under a patent granted to the plaintiff Joseph
Grant, in April 1825. It recited that a former patent had
been issued in August 1821, to the same person for the same
improvement, "which had been cancelled, owing to the defective specification on which the same was granted." The exclusive privilege given by the patent on which the suit is
brought, is to continue fourteen years from the day on which
the original was issued.
One of the pleas filed by the defendants, contained the following averment: "and the defendants aver that said specification does not correctly or accurately describe the improvement claimed by the said Joseph Grant as his invention, but
said specification, and the drawings thereto annexed, are altogerher defective in this, among other things, namely: in said
specification no proportion, sizes or distances are given, and
the bigness or size of n6ne of the principal parts of said machine is givn in said specifications or drawings, but the same
is wholly omitted; and in other particulars, said specificatioihs
and drawings are wholly defective: and the defendants aver
that said specification annexed to and making part of said letters patent, with the drawings thereto annexed, do not contain
a written description of his the said Joseph Grant's invention
and improvement aforesaid, and manner of using it, in such
full, clear and exact terms, as to distinguish the same from all
other things before known, and so as to enable any person
skilled in the art of which said machine or improvement is a
branch, or with which it is most nearly connected, to make
and use the same; and that for the cause aforesaid, said letters
patent are void."
The plaintiffs reply that they ought not to be barred, ", because they say that the specification mentioned in the said last
mentioned plea, does correctly and accurately describe the
improvement claimed by the said Joscph Grant as his invention; and because they say furtlier, that neither the said specification, nor the drawings thereto annexed, are defective in
any of the particulars in that behalf alleged in the said last
mentioned plea, and this they pray may be inquired of by the
country." On this replication issue was joined.

SUPREME COURT.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.]

At the trial the counsel for the defendants objected that the
secretary of state had no power by law to accept a surrender
of, and to cancel the said letters patent, or to inquire into or
to decide upon the causes for so doing, or to grant said second
patent for the same invention with an amended specification,
for the unexpired portion of the term of fourteen years which
had been granted by the first patent.
The court decided that such surrender might be. made when
the defect arose from inadvertence or mistake, and without
any fraud or misconduct on the part of the patentee; and that
the secretary of state had authority to accept such surrender,
and cancel the record of the patent, and to issue a new patent
for the unexpired part of the fourteen years granted under the
old patent, in manner aforesaid. To which decision the counsel for the defendants excepted.
After adducing the testimony on which they relied to support their plea herein before stated, the counsel for the defendants moved the court to instruct the jury that if they found
that the defendants had maintained and proved their averments
in that respect, that they must find the same for the defendants; which instructions the court refused to give, hut instructed the jury that the patent would not be void on this ground,
unless such defective or imperfect specification or description
arose from design, and for the purpose of deceiving the public;
to which opinion the counsel for the defendants also excepted.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs, and assessed their
damages to three thousand two hundred and sixty-six dollars
sixty-six cents: the judgment on-which is brought before this
court by a writ of error.
The first question in the cause respects the power of the
secretary of state to receive a surrender of a patent, cancel the
record thereof, and issue a new patent for the unexpired part
of the fourteen years for which the original had been granted.
The court was of opinion that this might be done "when the
defect in the specification arobe from inadvertence or mistake,
and without any fraud or misconduct on the part of the patentee."
The right of the patentee to surrender his patent has not
been denied, but the plaintiffs in error insist that no power
exists to grant a new patent for the unexpired term. The

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.1

words of the act, they say, do not confer this power. It cannot
be exercised with its necessary guards by the department of
state; and inconvenience of no inconsiderable magnitude might
result -to the public from its exercise. The secretary of state
is, in the act of making out patents, a mere ministerial officer,
and can exercise no power which is not expressly given.
It is undoubtedly true, that the secretary of state may be
considered, in issuing patents, as a ministerial officer. If the
prerequisites of the law be complied with, he can exercise no,
judgment on the question whether the patent shall be issued.
It is equally true that the act of congress contains no words
which expressly authorise the secretary to issue a'eorrected
patent, if the original, from some mistake or inadvertence ir
the patentee, should be found incompetent to secure the reward which the law intended to confer on him for his invention. The force of this objection, and of the argument founded
on it is felt. If the new patent can be sustained, it must be on
the general spirit and object of the law, not on its letter.
To promote the progress of useful arts, is the interest and
policy of every enlightened government. It entered into the
views of the framers of our constitution, and the power "tto
promote the progress of science, and useful arts, by securing
for limited times to authors and inventors, the exclusive right
to their respective writings and discoveries," is among those
expressly given to congress. 'This subject was among the first
which followed the organization of our government. It was
taken up by, the first congress at its second session, and an act
was passed authorising a patent to be issued to the inventor of
anyuseful art, &c. on his petition, "granting to such petitioner,
his heirs, administrators or assigns, for any term not exceeding
fourteen years, the sole and exclusive right and liberty of
making, using, and vending to others to be used, the said invention or discovery." The law farther declares that the
patent "shall be good and available to the grantee or giantees
by force of this act, to all and every intent and purpose herein
contained." The emendatory act of 1793 contains the same
language, and it cannot be doubted that the settled purpose of
the United States has ever been, and continues to be, to confer on the authors of useful inventions an exclusive right in
their inventions for the time mentioned in their patent. It is
VOL. VI.-2 F

SUPREME COURT.
[Grant and others v. Rsymund.]

the reward stipulated for the advantages derived by the public
for the exertions of the individual, and is intended as a stimulus to those exertions. The laws whi6h are passed to give
effect to this purpose ought, we think, to be construed in the
spirit in which they have been made; and to execute the contract fairly on the part of the United States, where the full
benefit has been actually received: if this can be done without
transcending the intention of the statute, or countenancing acts
which are fraudulent or may prove mischievous. The public
yields nothing which it has not agreed to yield; it receives all
which it has contracted to receive. The full benefit of the
discovery, after its enjoyment by the discoverer for fourteen
years, is preserved; and for his exclusive enjoyment of it during that time the public faith is pledged. That sense of justice and of right which all feel, pleads strongly against depriving the inventor of the compensation thus solemnly promised, bdcausc he has committed an inadvertent or innocent
mistake.
. If the mistake should be committed in the department of
state, no one would say that it ought not-to be corrected. All
would admit that a new patent, correcting the error, and which
would secure to the patentee the benefits which the law intended to secure, ought to be issued. And yet the act does
not in terms authorise a new patent, even in this case. Its
emanation is not founded on the words of the law, but is indi~pensably necessary to the faithful execution of the solemn
promise made by the United States. Why should not the
same step be taken for the same purpose, if the mistake has
been innocently committed by the inventor himself?
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error have shown very
clearly that the question of inadvertence or mistake is a judicial question, which cannot be decided by the secretary of
state. Neither can he decide those judicial questions on which
the validity of the first patent depends. Yet he issues it without inquiring into them. Why may he not, in like manner,
issue the second patent also ? The correct performance of all
those preliminaries on which the validity of the original depei-ds, are always examinable in the court in which a suit for
its violation shall be brought. Why may not those points on
which the validity of the amended patent depends, be examihed

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.]

before the same tribunal? In the case under consideration
those questions were not supposed by the circuit court to have
been decided in the departmergt of state, but were expressly
sulmitted to the jury. The rightfulness of issuing the new
patent is declared to depend on the fact, that "the defect in
the specification arose from inadvertence or mistake, and with:
out any fraud or misconduct on the part of the patentee."
The jury were of course to inquire into the fact. The condition on which the right to issue the patent depended, could be
stated to them for no other purpose.
It has been said that this permission to issue a new patent
on a reformed specification, when the first was defective
through the mistake of the patentee, would change the whole
character of the act of congress.
We are not convinced of this. The great object and intention of the act is to secure to the public the advantages to be
derived from the discoveries of individuals, and the means it
employs are the compensation made to those individuals for
the time and labour devoted to these discoveries, by the exclusive right to ipake, use and sell, the things discovered for a
limited time. That which gives complete e'ffect to this object
and intention, by employing the same means for the correction of inadvertent error which are directed in the first instance, cannot, we think, be a departure from the spirit and
character of the act.
An objection much relied on is, that after the invention has
been brought into general use, those skilled in the art or science
with which it is connected, perceiving the variance between
the specification and the machine, and availing themselves of
it, may have constructed, sold and used' the machine without'
infringing the legal rights of the patentee, or incurring the
penalties of the law. The new patdnt would retro-act on them,
and expose them to penalties to which they were not liable
when the act was committed.
This objection is mofe formidable in appearance than in
reality. It is not probable that the defect in the specification
can be so apparent as to be perceived by any but those who
examine it for the purpose of pirating the invention. They
are not entitled to much favour. But the answer to the objection is, that this defence is not made in this'ease; and the

SUPREME COURT.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.]

opinion of the circuit court does not go so far as to say that
such a defence would not be successful. That question is not
before the court; and is not involved in the opinion we are
considering. The defence when true in fact may be sufficient
in law, notwithstanding the validity of the new patent.
It has been also argued that the new patent must issue on
the new specification, and on the application which accompa.
nies it. Consequently, it will not be true that the machine
was "not known or used before the application."
But the new patent, and the proceedings on which it issues,
have relation to the original transaction. The time of the
privilege still iuns from the date of the original patent. The
application may be considered as appended to the original application; and, if the new patent is valid, the law must be considered as satisfied if the machine was not known or used
before that application.
It has been urged that the public was put into possession of
the machine by the open sale and use of it under the defective
specification, and- cannot be deprived of it by the grant of a
new patent. The machine is no longer the subject of a patent.
This would be perfectly true, if the second patent could be
considered as independent of the first. But it is in no respect
so considered'. The communication of the discovery to the
public has been made in pursuance of law, with the intent to
exercise a privilege which is the consideration paid by the
public for the future use of the machine. If, by an innocent
mistake, the instrument introduced to secure this privilege
fails in its object, the public ought not to avail itself of this
mistake, and to appropriate the discovery without paying the
stipulated consideration. The attempt would be disreputable
in an individual, and a court of equity might interpose to restrain him.
It will not be pretended that this question is free from difficulty. But the executive departments, it is understood, have
acted on the construction adopted by the circuit court, and
have considered it as settled. We would not willingly disregard this settled practice in a case where we are not satisfied
itis contrary to law, and where we are satisfied that it is reqtired by justice and good faith.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.]

We will now proceed to the second exception.
The plea assigns the particular defect supposed to exist in
the specification, and then proceeds to aver, in the very words
of the act, that it "does not contain a written description of
his th said Joseph Grant's invention and improvement aforesaid, and manner of using it, in such full, clear, and exact
terms as to distinguish the same from all' other things before
known, and so as to enable any person skilled in the art, &c.
to make and use the same," &c.
The plea alleges, in the words of the act, that the pre-requisites to the issuing a patent had not been complied with.
If the matter alleged in this plea constituted no bar to the
action, the plaintiffs might have demanded, and have submitted
the question of law to the court. But they have chosen to
deny the facts alleged in the plea, and to aver in their replication "that neither the specification nor the drawings thereto
annexed, are defective in any of the particulars in that behalf
alleged." Issue was joined upon this replication, and it is
that issue which the jury were sworn to try.
At the trial the counsel for the defendants, after the evidence was closed, asked the court, in substance, to instruct the
jury that ifthey shoild be of opinion that the defendants had
maintained and proved the facts alleged in their plea, they
must find for the defendants. The court refused this instruction. Ought it to have been refused? If in the opinion of
the jury the defendants have proved and maintained every
fact alleged in the plea on which the issue they are sworn to
try is joined, ought not the jury to find that issue for the defendants? Is not this required by their oaths? The conclusion, "4and that for the cause aforesaid, said letters patent are
void," is an inference of law from the facts previously alleged;
not the allegation of a distinct fact to be submitted to the jury.
The court proceeded to instruct the jury "4that the patent
would not be void on this ground, unless such defective or imperfect specification or description arose from design or for
the purpose of deceiving the public."
Now this " design," this "purpose of deceiving the public," constituted no part of the issue. The defendants had not
alleged it, and could not be'supposed to come prepared to prove
it. A verdict for them would not imply it. The instruction is

SUPREME COURT.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.]

understood to direct a verdict which finds in fact that thedescription or specification is not defective; and this verdict against
the evidence is to be found because that defect "arose not from
design, or for the purpose of deceiving the public."
SBut we must inquire whether the instruction, independent
of its departure from the issue, be consistent with law. It is
"cthat the patent would not be void unless," &c.
The fifth section of the act gives the party aggrieved an
action for the infringement of his patent right. The sixth
provides "Ithat the defendant in such action shall be permitted
to plead the general issue, and give this act in evidence, and to
give in evidence any special matter, of which notice in writing
may have been given to the plaintiff or his attorney thirty days
before trial, tending to prove that the specification filed by
the plaintiff does not contain the whole truth relative to his
discovery, or that it contains more than is necessary to produce the described eff.ct; which concealment or addition shall
fully appear to have been made for the purpose of deceiving
the public; or that the thing thus secured," &c. "in either of
which cases judgment shall be rendered for the defendant with
costs, and the patent shall be declared void."
Courts did not, perhaps, at first distinguish clearly between
a defence which would authorise a verdict and judgment in
favour of the defendant in the particular action, leaving the
plaintiff free to use his patent, and to bring other suits for its
infringement; and one which, if successful, would require the
court to enter a judgment not only for the defendant in the
particular case, but one which declares the patent to be void.
This distinction is now well settled.
If the party is content with defending himself, he may
either plead specially; or plead the general issue, and give the
notice required by the sixth section of any special matter he
means to use at the trial. If he shows that the patentee has
failed in any of those pre-requisites on which the authority to
issue the patent is made to depend, his defence is complete.
He is entitled to the verdict of the jury and the judgment of
the court. But if, not content with defending himself, he
seeks to annul the patent, he must proceed in precise conforinity to- the sixth section. If he depends on evidence
"tending to prove that the specification filed by the plaintiff

JANUARY TERM 1832.
lGrant and others v. Raymond.]

does not contain the whole truth relative to his discovery, or
that it contains more than is necessary to produce the described
effect," it may avail him so far as respects himself, but will
not justify a judgment declaring the patent void, unless such
"concealment or addition shall fully appear to have been made
for the purpose of deceiving the public;" which iurpose must
be found by the jury to justify'a judgment-of vacatur by the
court. The defendant is permitted to proceed according to the
sixth section, -but is not prohibited from proceeding in the usual
manner, so far as respects his defence; except that special matter may not be given in evidence on the general issue unaccompanied by the notice which the sixth section- requires.
The sixth section is not understood to control the third. The
evidence of fraudulent intent is required only in the particular case, and for the particular purpose stated in the sixth
section.
This instruction was material if the verdict ought to have
been for the defendants, provided the allegations of the plea
were sustained, and if such verdict wouli have supported a
judgment in their favour;.although the defect in the specification might not have arisen from design, and for the purpose of
deceiving the public. That such is the law we are entirely
satisfied. The third section requires, as preliminary, to a patent, a correct specification and description of the thing discovered. This is necessary in order to give the public, after
the privilege shall expire, the advantage for which the privilege is allowed, and is the foundation of the power to issue the
patent. The necessary consequence of the ministerial character in which the secretary acts, is that the performance of the
pre-requisites to a patent must be examinable in any suit
brought upon it. If the case was of the first impression, we
should come to this conclusion; but it is understood to be
settled.
The act of parliament concerning monopolies contains an
exception on which the grants of patents for inventions have
issued in that country. The construction of so much of that
exception as connects the specification with the patent, and
makes the validity of the latter dependent on the correctness
of the former, is applicable, we think, to proceedings under
the third section of the American act. The English books

SUPREME COURT.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.)

are full of cases in which it has been held that a defective specification is a good bar when pleaded to, or a sufficient defence
when given in evidence on the general issue, on an action
brought for the infringement of a patent right. They are very
well summed up in Godson's Law of Patents, title Specification:
and also in the chapter respecting the infringement of patents:
also in Holroyd on Patents, where he treats of the specification, its form and requisites. It is deemed unnecessary to go
through the cases, because there is no contrariety in them, and
because the question is supposed to be substantially settled in this
country. Pennock and Sellers v. Dialogue, 1 Peters, 1, was
not, it is true, a case of defect in the specification or description
required by the third section, but one in which the applicant
did not bring himself within the provision of the first section,
which requires that before a patent shall issue the petitioner
shall allege that he has invented a new and useful art, machine,
&c. "not known or used before the application."
This pre-requisite of the first setion, so far as a failure in
it may affect the validity of the patent, is not distinguishable
from a failure of the pre-requisites of the third section.
On the trial evidence was given to show that the patentee
had permitted his ihvention to be used before he took out his
patent. The court declared its opinion to the jury, that if an
inventor makes his discovery public, he abandons the inchoate
right to the exclusive use of the invention. "It is possible,"
added the court, "that the inventor may not have intended to
"But it is
give the benefit of his discovery to the public."
not a question of intention," "but of legal inference, resulting
from the conduct of the inventor, and affecting the interests of
the public. It is for the jury to say whether the evidence
brings this case within the principle which has been stated. If
it does, the court is of opinion that the plaintiff is not entitled
to a verdict."
The jury found a verdict for .the defendants, an exception
was taken to the opinion, and the judgment was affirmed by
this court.
'This case affirms the principle that a failure on the pdrt of
the patentee, in those pre-requisites of the act which authorise
a patent, is a bar to a recovery in an action for its infringement; and that the validity of this defence does not depend on

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Grant and others v. Raymond.]

the invention of the inventor, but is a legal inference upon his
conduct.
Upon these authorities and this reasoning we are of opinion
that the instruction was erroneous, and that the judgment
ought to'be reversed and the cause remanded. One of the
judges composing the majority thinks, that the direction would
have been erroneous on a plea properly framed upon the third
section of the act, and averrirg the facts of a defective specification, and a non-compliance with other requisitions of that
section, for that such a plea would be a good bar and defence
to the action: but, in his view, the plea relies upon the facts
as avoiding the patent entirely, and avers it to be void. He
thinks, however, that the replication puts the facts, and not
the point whether void or not, in issue; and that the direction
of the court was erroneous, since it was equivalent to a declaration, that if all the facts were proved, the issue ought not to
be found for the defendants, unless the imperfection of the
specification arose from a-fraudulent design.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to issue a venire facias de novo.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the southern
district of New York, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court that the said
circuit court -erred in instructing the jury "9that the patent
would not be void on this grodnd, unless such defective or imperfect specification or description arose from design, and for
the purpose of deceiving the public." Whereupon it is ordered and adjpdged by this Court, that the judgment of the
said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
reversed, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to award a
venire facias de novo.
VOL. VI.-2 G

