JANUARY TERM 1832.

rHE UNITED STATES

v.

THE STATE BANK OF NORTH

CARO-

LINA.

The right of priority of payment of debts due to the government, is a prerogative
of the crown of England, wel krown to the common law. Itis founded, not
so much upon any personal advantage to the sovereign, as. upon motives of
public policy to secure an adequate revenue to sustain the public burthens, and
discharge the public debts.
The claim of the United States to priority does not stand upon any sovereign prerogative, but is exclusively founded on the act,,al provisions of our own statutes.
The same policy which govwrned in the case of the royal prerogative may be
clearly traced in the'r statutes; and as that policy has mainly a reference to the
public good, there is no reason for giving to them a strait and narrow interpretation. Like all other statutes of this nature, they ought to receive a fair and
reasonable interpretation, according to the just import of their terms.
The priority of payment out of the estates of insolvents in favour of the United
States, was, under the statutes of the United States, first applied to bonds for
the payment ofduties, and to persons engaged in commerce.
The term "due" as applied to debts, is sometimes used to express the mere state
of indebtment, and then it is equivalent to "1owed" or "owing."
And it is
sometimes used to express the fact that the debt has become payable.
The priority of the United States extendsas well to debts bybonds forduties which
are payable after tthe insolvency or decease of the obligor, as to those actually
payable or due at the period thereof.
In the strictest sense, .the bond for duties is debitum in presenti; although looking to the condition, it may be properly said to be solvendum in futuro. It is
in this sense that the legislature is to be understood in the use of the words
"debt due to the United States." Wherever the common law would hold a
debt to be debitumn in presenti, solvendumn in futuro, the statutes giving the
United States priority embrace it, just as much at if it were presently payable.

THIS case came before the court on a certificate of division
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
North Carolina.
The facts of the case upon which the question submitted to
this court arose, were as follows: Willian H. Lippett, a merchant of Wilmington, North Carolina, was, on the 14th of
October 1528, indebted to the United States and to sundry
persons, and among others to the State Bank of North Carolina; and on that day he made a-general assignment of all his
property to Talcott Burr, in trust to pay his creditors. The
assignment directed that the sum of sixteen thousand six hun-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. The State Bank of North Carolina.]

dred and twelve dollars and forty-seven cents should be paid
to particular creditors, and that the residue of the property
assigned, should be appropriated to the payment of bonds for
duties.to the United States. At the time of the assignment,
Mr Lippett had given bonds to the United States for duties on
merchandize -mounting to seven thousand four hundred and
eighty-six dollars and eighty-six cents; of which bonds, but
one only, amounting to four hundred and nineteen dollars and
ninety-seven cents, was due and unpaid when the assignment
was executed.
In the cause in the circuit. court, the question arose,
"twhether the priority to which the United States are entitled
in case of a general assignment made by the debtor of his
estate for the payment of debts, compreheads a bond for the
payment of duties executed anterior to the date of the assignment, but payable afterwards." Upon this question the judges
differed in opinion; and, on motion of the attorney of the
United States, the point of law on which the disagreement
arose, was stated under the direction of the said judges, and
certified under the seal of the court to the Supreme Court of
the United States, to be finally decided:
The case was argued by Mr Taney, attorney-general of the
United States, for the plaintiffs; and by Mr Peters for the defendants.
Mr Taney stated: that the single question which was presented by the case for the consideration of this court, was,
whether the priority of the United States attaches to bonds
given to the United States for duties which are not due; but
which had been given to the United States before the insolvency of the obligor.
The law of the sovereign, to be first paid, existed at the
common law; it was an acknowledged prerogative of the
crown, and the laws of the United States have done no more
than adopt this known and established principle. If, therefore, the language of the acts of congress is doubtful, we may
safely appeal to the common law, not as authority on this
point, bfit for its sanction of the principle upon which this interpretation of our own statutes is claimed for the United
States.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. The State Bank of North Carolina.]

The principle upon which the debts to which the p1aintiffs
are entitled are considered as due at the time of the execution
of the bond, is familiar to the court. The obligatory part of
a bond acknowledges a present debt, and it is by the condition
only that its period of payment is postponed. In the distribution of assets in England, a preference is given to debts due by
sealed instruments, although not payable at the time of the
distribution. Toller's Exec. 275.
The consti uction of the law of the United States now claimed, has been that of universal practice since it was enacted.
From 1797 down to the present period, it'has been applied in
favour of the United States to bonds not due, as well as to
others to become due; and the estates of insolvents and intestates have been adjusted and settled on this princille in every
section of the union. This received construction will induce
the court to hesitate before it will adopt another; as it would
open those long established settlements, and would be productive of great difficulty and confusion.
The principle contended' for by the government, was recognized in the case of Thellusson v. Smith, 2 Wheat. 396, and in
Conard v. The Atlantic Insurance Company, 1 Peters, 386.
The point arose in the first case, although it was not discussed.
The act of congress of March 3, 1797, 1 Story's Laws U. S.
465, gives the priority to the United States, where persons
are indebted to the United States by bond or otherwise. This
is a provision for all debts due by public debtors; and it operates upon all cases, unless some exception in favour of particular persons shall be found in subsequent laws, which is not
the ease.
The act of March 2d, 1799, by the sixty-fifth section, declares the priority shall apply to bonds for duties; and it is
upon the language of that section that the doubt which has
arisen in this case has been founded. The provision is, that
where bonds for duties are not satisfied on the day they become due. suits shall be brought; and where the estate in the
hands of executors, administrators or assignees shall be insufficient to pay all the debts due, theUnited States shall be first
paid.
There is nothing in the provisions of this section which interferes with those of the law of 1797. Both are in force, and

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. The State Bank of North Carolina.]

both operate on the case of a debtor by duty bonds. All duties are in fact due when- the goods are imported upon which
they accrue, and the indulgence which is given for their payment, does not take away the essential feature in them. Even
then, upon this section alone, the right of the United States
rests in safety; but if the words of the section are equivocal,
as the act of 1797 is not repealed, and is not inconsistent with
it, the priorityvill be protected by that act. The fifth section
of that act applies to the cases of all persons "indebted to the
It has been so held in the case of the United
United States."
States v. Fisher. 2 Cranch, 358, 394; and the title of the act,
as was. decided in that case, does not limit its provisions to receivers of public money only. In construing a statute, the
court always looks to laws in par materia.
There is a stronger reason for the application of the rights of
the United States to a priority of payment, in the cases of
debts due to them by merchants, as the business of commerce
is more precarious than any other. A large portion of the revenue of the nation is derived from its commerce, and it is
essential that this revenue should be secured and certain. It
was a part of the early legislation of the United States to introduce this provision, for the protection of the revenue; and
hence it is found in the forty-fifth section of the act of August
4, 1790.

Mr Peters, for the defendant, contended, that from the first
organization of the revenue system by the government of the
United States, down to the period of the last legislation on the
subject of duty bonds, they had been treated differently from
other debts due to the United States. While it was admitted
that, by the act of 1797, all persons, other than those who
were liable to pay bonds given for duties on merchandize,
were subject to the provisions of that law, and the priority of
the United States attached equally to debts which were payable, or not, at the time of insolvency; such was not the law
in reference to duty bonds. There was a good and satisfactory
reason for this distinct and different course, as to the debts
The government is
due by those engaged in commerce.
deeply interested in the preservation of mercantile credit, and
the existence of an incumbrance, the extent and operation of

JANUARY TERM 1832.
EUnited States v. The State Bank of North Carolina.]

which could not be ascertained, if it attached to all the busines§ of a merchant; and which might sweep away in favour
of one preferred creditor all his means; it was seen would
take largely from the confidence which was esse.ntial to the
success of all operations in trade. Where bonds for duties
have become due, and are unpaid, the amount of such debts
could be known, but until then, they could not be ascertained.
The question here submitted to the court has never been ju
dicially decided: and whatever may have been the practical
construction heretofore given to the law, this Court will decide the case upon a careful examination of the provisions
of the statutes, and upon those provisions only. The preference given to the United States is stricti juris; and has no
foundation in prerogative. It exists by statutory provisions
only; if it exists at all.
The forty-fifth section of the act of 1790 declares, that
"any bond for the payment of duties not satisfied on the day
it becomes due, shall be sued;" and it enacts, that in cases
"cwhere any estate is in the hands of the assignees and shall
be insufficient to pay all the debts due, the debt due to the
United States on any such bond shall be first satisfied."
In this section, and there is no other in the act of 1790 upon
the matter; bonds not satisfied on the day they become due
are to be put in suit, and any such bonds are to be first paid.
No others are within the terms of the law.
The sixty-fifth section of the act of 1799 adopts the same
language. Bonds, not satisfied on the day they become due,
are to be sued out, and the preference is given to the debts
"due to the United States on any such bond or bonds." It
is claimed that the legislation of congress upon such bonds is
full; and no aid is to be obtained from the act of 1797 in the
interpretation of it. There is no room for the application of
acts in par materia; nor are the subjects of the laws the same.
The system is complete as applicable to commercial debtors by
the acts of 1790 and 1799. The rights of the United States
in other eases rest on the act of 1797.
In Hunter v. The United States, 5 Peters, 173, lMlr Justice
M'Lean, who delivered the opinion of the court, intimates a
doubt whether, where a judgment has been obtained by the
Uiled States against assignees after an assignment, there might
VOL. VI.-E

SUPREME COURT.
ftUnited States v. The State Bank of North Carolina.]

not have been some ground to question the right of priority
claimed by the United States in such a case.
The priority of the United States has been held to exist in
the cases only which come within the statutes, on their strictest
construction. Any one who has given bonds to the government may pay the debts due by him to others; although
his ability to discharge the debt due to the United States may
be destroyed thereby. Unless a general assignment shall be
made, there has been no "4insolvency" within the purposes of
the statute. Bona fide securities, given to creditors by one in
insolvent circumstances, are not affected by the claim ta priority. The United States v. Hooe, 3"Cranch, 73; Thellusson
v. Smith, 2 Wheat. 396; Conrad v. The Atlantic Insurance
Company,. 1 Peters, 387; The United States v. Howland, 4
Wheat. 108.
The principle derived frcm these decisions is, that the right
of the United States to payment of its debts, does not attach
to the property of the debtor from the commencement of the
obligation to pay, and infect it, so that it is not entirely disposable by him. The " insolvency," which deprives the debtor
of this right, must be a legal insolvency. The evidence of
this is bankruptcy, or a general assignment.
What shall be considered as debts due may be well ascertained by a reference to English authorities upon the law of
set off. Cited, Ex parte Prescott, 1 Atk. 229; Rose v. Hart,
8 Taunt. Rep. 503; 2 Brod. & Bingh. 89; 5 Barn. & Alderson, 86.
1Ir Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
J.his cage comes before the court upon a certificate of division of.opinion of the judges of the circuit court for the district of North Carolina.
The suit is an information by the United States in the nature of a bill in equity, seeking to recover against the defendant, and Talcott Burr, as the assignee of William H. Lippett,
the amount of custom house bonds owing by Lippett to the
United States; Lippett having become insolvent, and having
made a voluntary assignment of all his property to Burr, for
the benefit of his creditors, by which he has given a preference
of payment to certain creditors, who are made defendants,

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States-v. The State Bank of North Carolina.]

and, among others, to the State Bank of North Carolina, before payment to the United States. The Bank of North Carolina appeared and pled a demurrer to the information; and,
upon the argument of that demurrer, it occurred as a question,
whether the priority to which the United States are entitled,
in case of a general assignment made by the debtor of his
estate for the payment of debts, comprehends a bond for the
payment of duties executed anterior to the date of the assignment, but payable afterwards. 'Upon this question the judges
were divided in opinion; and it now stands for the decision of
this Court.
The right of priority of payment of debts due to the government is a prerogative of the crown well known to the common law. It is founded not so much upon any personal advantage to the sovereign, as upon motives of public policy, in
order to secure an adequate revenue to sustain the public butthens and discharge the public debts. The claim of the United
States, however, does not stand upon any sovereign prerogative, but is exclusively founded upon the actual provisions of
their own statutes. The same policy, wlich governed in the
case of the royal prerogative, may be clearly traced in these
statutes; and as that policy has. mainly a reference to the public good, there is no reason for giving to them a strict and
narrow interpretation. Like all other statutes of this nature,
they ought to receive a fair and reasonable interpretation, according to the just import of their terms.
The first enactment on this subject will be found in the
duty collection act of 4th of August 1790, chapter 62, section 45, which provides, that "where any bond for the payment of duties shall not be satisfied on the day it became due,
the collector shall forthwith cause a prosecution to be commenced for the recovery of the money thereon by action or
suit at law in the proper codseIAaving cognizance thereof.
And, in all cases of insolve.nm- 'or where the estate in the
hands of the executors or administrators shall be insufficient to
pay all the debts due from the deceased, the debt due to the
United States on any such bond shall be first satisfied." So
that, in point of fact, the priority was first applied to bonds
for the payment of duties, and to persons engaged in commerce; which disposes of that part of the argument of the de-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. The State Bank of North Carolina.]

fendant which has been founded upon a supposed policy of
the government to favour merchant importers in preference
to any other class of their debtors.
Then came the act of 3d of March 1791, chapter 75, which
extended the right of priority of the United States to other
classes of debtors, and gave a definition of the term insolvency,
in its application to the purposes of the act. It provides,
"cthat, where any revenue or other officer, or other person
hereafter becoming indebted to the United States, by bond or
otherwise, shall become insolvent, or where the estate of any
deceased debtor in the hands of executors or administrators
shall be insufficient to pay all the debts lue from the deceased,
the debt due to the United States shall be first satisfied; and
the priority hereby established shall be deemed to extend as
well to cases in which a debtor, not having sufficient property
to pay all his debts, shall make a voluntary assignment thereof,
or in which the estate of an absconding, concealed, or absent
debtor shall be attached by process of law, as to cases in which
an act of legal bankruptcy shall be committed." This act is
still in force; and unless its application to the present case is
intercepted by the act of 1799, chapter 128, its terms would
seem sufficiently broad to embrace it. The language is, where
any person " becoming indebted to the United States by bond
or otherwise" (which clearly includes a debtor upon a custom
house bond) ", shall become insolvent," (which is the predicament of Lippett) ", the debt due to the United States shall
first be paid." What debt is here referred to? A debt which
is then actually payable to the United States ? Or a debt then
arising to the United States, whether then payable, or payable
only in futuro ? We think the latter is the true construction
of the term of the act. The whole difficulty arises from the
different senses in which the term "due" is used. It is sometimes used to express the mere state of indebtment, and then
is an equivalent to owed, or owing. And it is sometimes used
to express the fact that the debt has become payable.
Thus, in the latter sense, a bill or note is often said to be
due, when the time for payment of it h~s arrived. In the
former sense, a debt is often said to be due from a person,
when he is the party owing it, or primarily bound to pay,
whether the time of payment has or has not arrived. ThiFs

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. The State Bank of North Carolina.]

very clause of the act furnishes an apt illustration of this latter
use' of the term. Itdeclares that the priority of the United
States shall attach "4where the estate of any deceased debtor,
in the hands of executors or administrators, shall be insufficient
to pay all the debts due from the deceased." Here the word
"due" is plainly used as synonymous with owing. In the
settlement of the estates of deceased persons, no distinction is
ever taken between debts which are payable before or after
their decease. The assets are equally bound for the payment
of all debts. The insufficiency spoken of in the act, is an insufficiency not to pay a particular class of debts, but to pay all
debts of every nature. Now, if the term "due," in reference
to the debts of deceased persons, means owing, and includes all
debts, whether payable in presenti or not; it is difficult to
perceive how a different meaning can be given to it, in regard
to the debt of the United States, considering the connexion
in which it stands in the sequel of the same sentence. "Where
the estate, &c. shall be insufficient to pay all the debts due from
the deceased, the debt due-to the United States shall be first
satisfied." The obvious meaning is, that in case of a deficiency
of assets, the debt owing to the United States shall be paid
before the debts owing to the other creditors.
The only real doubt in the present case, arises from the
phraseology of the sixty-fifth section of the act of the 2d of
March 1799, chapter 128; which provides, that "where any
bond for the payment of duties shall not be satisfied on the
day it may become due, the collector shall forthwith, and
without delay, cause a prosecution to be commenced for the
recovery of the money thereon, in the proper court having
cognizance thereof. And in all cases of insolvency, or where
any estate in the hands of executors, administrators or assignees,
shall be insufficient to pay all the debts due from the deceased,
the debt or debts due to the United States on any such bond
or bonds, shall be first satisfied." The argument is, that the
words "any such bond or bonds" refer to the bonds mention.
ed in the introductory part of the sentence, that is, to bonds
for duties which have become payable, and are not paid. But
we think, that this construction is not necessary or unavoidable. The words "such bond or bonds" are fully satisfied by
referring them as matter of description to bonds for the pay-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. The State Bank of North Carolina.]

ment of duties, whether then payable or not. The description
is of a particular class of bonds, viz. for the payment of duties,
and not of the accidental circumstance of their time of payment.
No reason can be perceived, why, in cases of a deficiency
of assets of deceased persons, the legislature should make a
distinction between bonds which should be payable at the time
of their decease, and bonds which should become payable
afterwards. The same public policy which would secure a priority of payment to the United States in one case, applies with
equal force to the other; and an omission to provide for such
priority in regard to bonds payable in futuro, would amount
to an abandonment of all claims, except for a pro rata dividend.
In cases of general assignments by debtors, there would be a
still stronger reason against making a distinction between
bonds then payable and bonds payable in futuro; for the debtor
might, at his option, Five any preferences to other creditors,
and postpone the debts of the United States of the latter description, and even exclude them altogether. In the case before the court, the assignment expressly postpones the claims
of the United States in favour of mere private creditors. It
would be difficult to assign any sufficient motive for the legislature to allow the public debtors to avail themselves of such
an injurious option. If, then, no reason can be perceived for
such a distinction, grounded upon public policy; the language
ought to be very clear, which should induce the court to adopt
it. There should be no other rational means of interpreting
the terms, so as to give them their full and natural meaning.
This, we think, is not the predicament of the present language.
Every word may have a fair construction, without introducing
any such restrictive construction. There is this additional
consideration which deserves notice, that, in our view, the act
of 1797, chapter 74, clearly embraces all debts of the United
States, whether payable at the decease of the party or afterwards. There is no reason to presume that the legislature intended to grant any peculiar favour to merchant importers; for
otherwise the priority of the United States would have been
withdrawn from all bonds for duties, and not (as the argument
supposes) from a particular class of such bonds. And as there
is no repeal of the act of 1797, chapter 74, except such as may

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. The State Bank of North Carolina.]

arise by implication from the terms of the sixty-fifth section
of the act of 1799, chapter 128; if these terms cover only cases
of bonds actually become due, they leave the act of 1797 in
full force with regard to all other bonds.
But if this reasoning were less satisfactory to our minds
than it is, there is another ground upon which we should
arrive at the same conclusion. The act of 1799, chapter 128,
in. the sixty-second section, prescribes the form of bonds for the
payment of duties. It is the common form of a bond with a
penalty upon a condition underwritten. The obligatory part
admits a present existing debt due to the United States, which
the party holds himself firmly bound to pay to the United
States. The condition, in a legal sense, constitutes no part of
the obligation, but is merely a condition, by a compliance with
which the party may discharge himself from the debt admitted
to be due by the obligatory clause. And accordingly it is
well known, that in declarations on bonds with a condition, no
notice need be taken of the existence of the condition. If the
debtor would avail himself of it, he must pray oyer of it, and
plead it by way of discharge. In the strictest sense, then,
the bond is a debitum in presenti, though looking to the condition it .may be properly said to be solvendum in futuro:
and we think that it is in the sense of this maxim, that the
legislature is to be understood in the use of the words, " debt
Wherever the common law
due to the United States."
in presenti, solvendum in
debitum
to
be
a
debt
hold
would
as much as if it were preit
just
embraces
statute
faturo, the
sently payable.
It is not unimportant to state, that the construction which
we have given to the terms of the act, is that which is understood to have been practically acted upon by the government,
as well as by individuals, ever since its enactment. Many
estates, as well of deceased persons, as of persons insolvent
who have made general assignments, have been settled upon
the footing of its correctness. A practice so long and so
general, would, of itself, furnish strong grounds for a liberal
construction; and could not now be disturbed without introducing a train of serious mischiefs. We think the practice
was founded in the true exposition of the terms and intent of

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. The State Bank of North Carolina.]

the act: but if it were susceptible of some doubt, so long an
acquiescence in it would justify us in yielding to it as a safe
and reasonable exposition.
This opinion will be certified to the circuit court of the
North Carolina district.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the 'ecord from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of North Carolina, and on the point and question on which the
judges of the said circuit court were opposed in opinion, and
which was certified to this Court for its opinion, agreeably to
the act of congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered and
adjudged by the Court, that it be certified to the circuit court
of the United States for the district of North Carolina, upon
the question upon which the judges of that court were divided,
and which has been certified to this court; that this court is of
opinion that the priority to which the United States are entitled in case of a general assignment made by a debtor of his
estate for the payment of debts, comprehends a bond for the
payment of duties, executed anterior to the date of the assignment, but' payable afterwards.

