SUPREME COURT.

UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. GEORGE M'DANIEL,
I DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

The declaration was for a balance of accounts of nine hundred and eighty-eight
dollars and ninety-four cents, and the ad damnum was laid at two thousand
dollars. The bill of exceptions showed that the United States claimed interest
on the balances due them. Under those circumstances it is no objection to
the-jurisdiction, that the, bill of exceptions was taken by the counsel for the
United States to a refusal of the court fo grant an nstruction asked by the
United States, which was applicable to certain items of credit only claimed by
the defendantLs, which would reduce the debt below the sum of one thousand
dollars. 'the court cannot judicially know what influence that refusal had
upon tle verdict.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for the
county of Washington in the District of Columbia.
A motion was made by Mr Coxe, for the defendant, to dismiss this suit for want of jurisdiction; 'the sum in controversy
at the trial being less than one thousand dollars, and it appearing from the bill of exceptions, that the only items in controversy'on which the instruction excepted to, was given by the
circuit court, were less than that sum.
Mr Taney, attorney general, contra.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
court, overruling the Motion. The declaration is for a balance
of accounts of nine hundred and eighty-eight dollars and ninetyfour cents; and the ad damnum is laid at two thousand dollars.
The bill of exceptions shows, that the United States claimed
interest on the balance due to them. There is a general verdict for the defendant. Under these circumstances, it is no
objection to the jurisdiction that the bill of exceptions was
taken by the counsel for the United States to a refusal of the
circuit court to grant an instruction asked by the United
States, which was applicable to certain items of credit only,
claimed by the defendant, which would reduce the debt below
the sum of one thousand dollars. The court cannot judicially
know what influence that refusal had upon the'verdict.
The motion was overruled.

