JANUARY TERM 1832.

THE UNITED STAT S V. JAMES PAUL.
The third section of the act of congress, entitled "an act more effectually to
provide for the punishment of certain crimes against the United States, and
for other purposes," passed March 3, 1825, is to be limited to the laws of the
several states In force at the time of its enactment.

THIS case came before the court on a certificate of division of
opinion of the judges of the circuit court of the United States
for the southern district of New York.
The defendant, James Paul, was indicted at October term
1830 of the circuit court. The indictment found by the grand
jury was as follows:
Southern District of New York, ss.
The jurors for the United States of America within and for
the circuit and district aforesaid, on their oaths present, that
James Paul, late of West Point, on the loth day of September in the year of our Lord 1830, about the hour often in the
night of the same day, with force and arms, at West Point, in
the county of Orange, within the state of New York, under
the sole jurisdiction of the United States of America, and
within the jurisdiction of this court, (the store of John H.
Lane, in which said store goods and merchandise, the property
of the said John H. Lane, was kept for use and sale) there
situate, feloniously and burglariously did break 'and enter,
with intent the goods and merchandise of the said John H.
Lane in the said store then and there being found, then and
there feloniously and burglariously to steal, take, and carry
away, against the peace of the people of the United States and
their dignity.
To which indictment the prisoner pleaded not guilty, and
by his counsel moved that the said indictment be quashed
upon the following grounds:
That the third section of the act of congress,. entitled " art
act moie effectually to provide for the punishment of certain
crimes against the United States, and for other purposes,"
passed March 3,18o5-Laws U. S. vol. 7, p. 393-is to be
limited to the"laws of the several tates in force at the time of
i[,

l.t' nl ellt,

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Paul.]

By the revised statutes of the state of New York, passed in
1829-vol. 2 Rev. Stat. p. 669, part 4, ch. 1, title 3, art. 2,
sec. 17-a burglary in the third degree is enacted a breaking
and entering, in the day or night, any shop, store, &c., in
which any goods, &c. are kept for use, sale, or deposit, with
intent to steal therein, or commit any felony; and by the 21st
of the same act, this offence is punishable by imprisonment in
the state prison for a term not exceeding five years.
T
the said question thus occurring before the said court,
the opinions of the said two judges were divided, and upon
request of counsel, the point upon which the said division of
opinion occurred was stated in manner aforesaid, under the
direction of the'said judges, and certified under the seal of the
said court, to the Supreme Court of the "UnitedStates, at their
next session, to be held at the city of Washington on the second Monday of January, A.D. 1831.
The prisoner was arrested on a charge of breaking, with an
intention to steal, into a store situated at West Point, in the
state of New York, and within the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States. The store was not in any way
identified with a dwelling: and the offence therefore was not a
burglaryat common law, nor by the laws of New York as existing in 1825; but was created a burglary in the third degree
by the Revised Statutes of New York going into opgration
in 1829.
The case was stibmitted to the court without argument, by
Mr Taney, attorney-general of the United States; and by Mr
Washington Quincy Morton, for the defendant.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL stated it to be the opinion of
the court, that the third section of the act of congress, entitled
" in act more effectually to provide for the punishment of certain crimes against the United States, and for other purposes,"
passed March 3, 1825, is to be limited to the laws of the several states in force at the time of its enactment. This,was
ordered to be certified to the circuit court for the sotithern
district of New York.

