JANUARY TERM 1832.

HENRY MILLER'S HEIRS AND DEVISEES, COMPLAINANTS AND
APPrELLANTS V. JACOB AN IsAAc M'WzTYiE, APPELLEES.
A bill was filed in 1808 for the purpose of obtaining the legaL title to certain lands
in Kentucky, and afterwards new-parties were madedefendants in an amended
bill filed in 1815. Until these parties had so become defendants, and parties
to the bill, the suit cannot be considered as commenced against them. The
statute of limitations will avail the new defendants at the period whenthe
amtudtd bill waq filed; and theyare not to be affected by the proceeding during
he time they were strangers to it.
WiLrei the statute of limitations is pleaded at law or in equity, and the plaintiff
desires it [,r'n himself within its savings, it would be nroper for him in his
replication, or by an amurndmt-t of his bill, to set forth the facts specially.
The adverse pogsession was taken in this case in the spring of 1788 or 1789. In
the spring of 1796 the ancestor of the complainants died, and his heirs brought
suit against the present defendants in 1815. Some of the complainants were
not of full age in 1804. Unless the disability be shown to exist, so as to protect the right of the complainants, the effect of the statute on that ground cannot be avoided.
If an entry be made under a grant, and there is no adverse possession, the entry
will be limited only by the grant, unless the contrary appear.
At least twenty-six years elapsed after the adverse possession was taken by tha
defendants, before suit was brought against them by the complainants, and
nineteen years from the decease of their ancestor. The statute of limitations
of Virginia was made the statute of Kentucky by adoption in 1792: if the adverse possession which had been held for several years commenced at that
time, or when the constitution formed by Kentucky was sanctioned by congress, it would give a possession of about twenty-two years; eighteen or nine*
teen of which were subsequent to the decease of the complainants' ancestor.
Upon these facts the statute of limitations of Kentucky is a bar to a claim of
the land by the complainants.
The courts in Kentucky and elsewhere, by analogy, apply the statute of limitations in chancery, to bar an equitable right, whenlat law it would have operated
against a grant. This principle has been well established and generally sanctioned in courts of equity.
At laswlhe statute operates where the conflicting titles are adverse in their origin;
andno reason is perceived against giving the statute the same effect in equity.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Kentucky.
The facts and pleadings of the case are fully stated in the
opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr Doddridge and Mr Denny for the
appellants, and by Mr Wickliffe and Mr Daniel for the appellees.

62

SUPREME COURT
[Msiller v. M'Intyre.]

Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause was appealed from the decree of the eircuit court
of the United States for the district of Kentucky. The original
bill was filed.in May 1808,in which the complainants statedlhat
on the 10th of Dpcerlber 1782, their ancestor, Henry Miller,
made gn entry of one thousand six hundred and eighty-seven
acres of land, which was surveyed the 9th of April 1804,
und patented the 19th pf July 1820. That the defendants
were in-possession of the land under said claims; and the bill
prayed that they might be compelled to disclbse their titles,
and surrender the possession of the premises.
In June 1815, the complainants amended their bill, and,
among other things, stated, that on the 19th of May 1780,
Nicholas M'Intyre entered a thousand acres of land on the
waters of the Licking, &c., and having caused the same to be
surveyed, contrary to location, obtained a patent elder in date
than the complainants. That this land was devised by Nicholas lD'Intyre to his sons Isaac and Jacob; and that Isaac conveyed to John M'Intyre, who is made a defendant. Jacob
M'Intyre, and several others, are also made defendants. In
1816, Jacob M'Intyre filed his answer, in which he admits
the entry of his ancestor as stated by the complainants, and
sets forth an amendment of the said entry, made on the 14th
of December 1782. By this amendment, it seems, the entry
was made to interfere with complainants' entry.
An amended answer was filed by Jacob M'Intyre in May
1822, in which he claims the benefit of the statute of limitations
from an occupancy of the land more than twenty years before
suit was brought. Isaac M'Intyre seems never to have been
served with process, or made a defendant ta the amended bill.
This was deemed unnecessary; it is presumed, from the fact
stated in the bill, that he had conveyed h;.interest to John
M'Intyre.
In his answer, filed in December 1821, Ubn M'Intyre
states, that the legal title to no part of the thouand acres is
vested in him; but that he holds a bond, executed by Nicholas M'Intyre, for a moiety of the said tract; and that a deed
for the same had been executed to him by Isaac MlIntyre,
but that it had never been recorded. He alleges, that an adverse possession of more than twenty years, by himself ana
those claiming under him, is a bar to the plaintiffs' right.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Miller v. M'Intvre.]

The cause was twice appealed to the supreme court from
the decrees of the circuit court; and on the second appeal, the
decree dismissing the bill was i-eversed, on the ground, that,
under the land law, the survey-of the complainants was made
in due time, and that the patent was legally issued. And the
cause was remanded to the circuit court for further proceedings; and leave was given to the parties to take testimony.
2 Wheat. 316; 11 Wheat. 441. Additional testimony was
taken, chiefly with the view of proving the possession of the
defendants under the M'Intyre patent.
As the complainants' title was sustained by the decree of
this court in 1826, the defendants do not attempt to impeach
it, but rely exclusively on their possession.
In April 1792, Kentucky adopted a constitution, and she'
was admitted into the union as an independent state the ensuing session of congress.
By the first section of the schedule, which was adopted with
the constitution, it is provided, "that all rights, actions, prosecutions, claims and contracts, as well of individuals as of
bodies corporate, shall continue as if the said government had
not been established."
The statute of limitations which was passed by the legislature of Kentucky on the 17th of December 1796, was 4 literal
copy of the Virginia statute; which was in force before the
entries now in controversy were made. This statute therefore
operated upon the rights of the parties, while the district of
Kentucky formed a part of the state of Virginia, and afterwards by the adoption of the convention. It was not repealed
by the statute of 1796, but re-enacted in all its parts.
In the second sectioh of this statute, it is provided, " that
all writs, &c. upon any title heretulbre accrued, or which may
hereafter fall or accrue, shall be sued out within twenty years
next after such title or cause of action accrued, and not afterwards; and that no person or persons who now hath, or have, or
may hereafter have, any right or title of entry, into any lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, shall make any entry, but within
twenty years next after such right or title accrued; and such
person shall be barred from any entry afterwards." "Provided,
nevertheless, that if any person or persons, entitled to such writ
or writs, or to such right or title of entry as aforesaid, shall be

SUPREME COURT.
[Miller v. M'Intyre.)

under age, &c. or not within the commonwealth at the time
such right or title accrued or coming to theih; every such
person and his or her heirs shall and may, notwithstanding the
said twenty years are or shall be expired, bring or maintain
his action, dr make his entry, within ten years next after such
disabilities removed or death of the person so disabled, and
not afterwards."
By Josiah M'Dowell, David Jamison, James Sonce, Michael
Hornback, and other witnesses, it is satisfactorily proved, that
possess',on was taken of the land in controversy under the
M'Intyre grant, by. the defendants, or persons claiming under
them, in the spring of the year 1788 or 1789. The weight of
testimony is in favour of the former period. It is also made
to appbar, that the possession was adverse to the complainants'
title, and co-extensive .with the limits of the patent. If an
entry be made, under a grant, and there is no adverse possession, the entry will be limited only by the grant, unless the
contrary appear.
Various reasons are assigned against the operation of the
statute in this case.
It is insisted, that the amended bill, filed in 1815, by which
the defendants were made parties to the bill, has relation to the
commencement of the suit in 1808; and consequently, that the
statute cannot bar, as its limitation had not then run.
,Until the defendants were made parties to the bill, the suit
cannot be considered as having been commenced against them.
It would be a novel and unjust principle to make the defendants responsible for a proceeding of which they had no notice;
and where a final decree in the case could not have prejudiced
their rights.
Where the statute is pleaded at law or in equity, and the
plaintiff desires to bring himself within its savings, it would be
proper for him in his replication, or by an amendment of his
bill, to -set forth the facts specially. This has not been done
in the present case; biut as there are other grounds on which
the decision may rest, this objection will not be further noticed.
The adverse possession was taken in this case in the spring
of 1788 or 1189. In the spring of 1,796 the ancestor of the
complainants died, and his heirs brought suit against the pre-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Miller v. M3 Tntyre.)

sent defendants in June 1815. From some of the depositions
it appears that a part of the complainants were not of full age
in April 1804; but how soon afterwards this disability ceased,
is not proved. Unless the disability be shown to .exist, so as
to protect the rights of the complainants, the effect of the statute,
on that ground, cannot.be avoided.
At least twenty-six years elapsed after the adverse possession was taken by the defendants, before suit was brought
against them by the complainants; and nineteen years from
the decease of their ancestor.
As the statute of Virginia was made the statute of Kentucky,
by adoption in 1792, if the adverse possession, which had
been held for several years, commenced at that time, or when
the constitution formed by Kentucky was sanctioned by congress, it would give a possession of about twenty-two years:
eighteen or nineteen of which were subsequent to the decease
of the complainants' ancestor.
Under this state of facts, it is clear that the statute constitutes
a bar, unless it shall be shown not to operate against the complainants' title.
I As the limitation of the statute, both as to the twenty years'
adverse possession, and the ten years subsequent to the decease
of the complainants' ancestor, had run since 1793, before suit
was commenced, it is unnecessary to inquire what effect the
Virginia statute had upon the rights of the parties before it
was adopted by Kentucky.
It is earnestly contended that the statute does not run against.
an equitable title, and consequently, that it cannot operate as a
bar in this case; as the legal title was not vested in the complainants until the emanation of their patent in 1820.
On this ground the counsel seem chiefly to rely, and several
authorities are referred to in support of it.
In 4 Bibb, 372, the court say, it is a general rule ihat a court
of equity will not relieve against a possession with right, after
the lapse of twenty years; but they do not determine whether
this rule.applies where the conflicting titles are adverse in
their origin. 2 Mar. 570; 1 Mar. 5a, 506; 3 Mar. 146, are
cited to show that the statute does not run,- except against a
grant. This is undoubtedly the case at law, but a different
rule has been established in equity. Tile courts in Kentucky
VoiL. VI.-I

SUPREME COURT.
[Miller v. M'Intyre.]

and elsewhere, by analogy, apply the statute in chancery to
bar an equitable right; where at law it would have operated
against a grant.
This principle has been so well established, and so generally
sanctioned by courts of equity, that it can hardly be necessary
to enter into an investigation of it.
At first the rule was controverted, and afterwards frequently
evaded, on the ground of implied trusts; but the, modern decisions have uniformly sustained the principle. This doctrine
is ably discussed in the case of the Marquis of Cholmondely
v. Lord Clinton, reported in 2 Jacob and Walker. In that
case it is said, that "9at all times, courts of equity have, upon
general principles of their own, even where there was no statutable bar, refused relief to stale demands; where the party
has slept upon his rights, and acquiesced for a great length of
time."
At law, the statute operates where the conflicting titles are
adverse in their origin; and no reason is perceived against
giving the same effect to the statute in equity.
In the case of Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 168, the
chief justice, in giving the opinion of the court, says, "from
the earliest ages courts of equity have refused their aid to those
who have neglected, for an unreasonable length of time, to
assert their claims; especially where the legal estate has been
transferred to purchasers without notice." That "although
the statutes of limitations do not, either in England or in these
states, extend to suits in chancery, yet.the courts in both countries have acknowledged their obligations.-" In referring to
the case of Cholmondely v. Clinton, he says, "it was considered and treated by the court as a case of the highest importance; and the opinion was unequivocally expressed, that, both
on principle and authority, the laches and non-claim of the
rightful owner of an equitable estate for a period of twenty
years (stpposing it the case of one who must within that period have made his claim in a court of law, had it been a legal
estate), under no disability, and where there has been no fraud,
will constitute a bar to equitable relief, by analogy to the statute of limitations, if, during all that period, the possession has
been held under a claim unequivocally adverse." -This case
was appealea to the house of lords, where the lord chancellor

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Miller v. M'Intyre.]

considered that twenty years constituted a bar; the possession
being adverse. And Lord Redesdale declared that "they had
always considered the provision in the stdtute of James," which
is similar to the Kentucky statute under consideration, and
"which applied to rights and titles of entry, in which the period of limitation was twenty years, as that by which they
were bound; and it was that upon which they had constantly
acted."
In the conclusion of the opinion, the chief justice says, "cin
all cases, where an adverse possession has continued for twenty
years, it constitutes, in the opinion of this court4 a complete
bar in equity."
From the above authorities, it appears the rule is well settled, both in England and in this country, that effectwill be
given to the statute of limitation, in equity, the same as itlaw.
And as in this case there could be no doubt, if the complainants' ancestor had held by grant at the time the adverse possession was taken, that the statute would have barred the right of
entry; the same effect must be given to it in equity.
The decree of the circuit court, dismissing the bill, is affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof it is ordered, adjudged and decteed by this court, that
the decree of the said circuit court in this cause, dismissing the
bill of the compla'nants, be, and the same is hereby affirmed,
with costs.

