JANUARY TERM 1832.

TilE

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS V. DON FERNANDO DE LA
MAZA ARREDONDO AND OTHERS, APPELLEES.

The grant of the king of Spain to F. A,.Arredondo and son, for land at Alachua
in Florida, gafe a valid title to these claimants under the grant, according to
the stipulations of the treaty between the United States and Spain of 1819,
tire laws of nations, of the United States, and of Spain.
Con.tiuction of the treaty with Spdin of 1819, relative to grants of"lands in the
territory of Florida; and of tire several acts of congress, passed for the adjustment of private claims to land within that territory.

THIS was an appeal from the superior court of the eastert
district of Florida.
On the 11th day of November 1828, Fernando de la Maza
Arredondo and son, and others, their grantees, filed their petition in the superior court of the eastern district of Florida,
against the United States, under the provision of the sixth section of an act of congress passed May 23, 1828, entitled "an
act supplementary to the several acts providing for the settlement and confirmation of private land claims in Florida."
The petition stated, that the petitioners claimed title to an
undivided parcel of land, coiitaining two hundred and eightynine thousand six hundred and forty-five acres, situated in the
county of Alachua, in the eastern district of Florida, about
thirty-six miles west of the river St Johns, and about fifty-two
miles west of the city of St Augustine; which land extends
four leagues to the east point of the compass in a rectilinear
figure, taking as the centre thereof.a place called Alachua,
formerly inhabited by a tribe of Seminole Indians, but subsequently abandoned by them: that the said tract of land was
granted by the Spanish government, with all the formalities
and solemnities used by it in such cases, to the petitioners,
on the 22d day of December 1817, the said grant having been
executed at Havana, in the island of Cuba, by Don Alexander
Ramirez, intendant of the army, superintendent general, and
subdelegate of the royal exchequer of the island of Cuba, and
the two Floridas, &c. &c. by and with the advice and approbation of the surveyor general of the two Floridas, and of the
minister fiscal, the king of Spain's attorney general. A trans-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

lation of the grant and other proceedings was annexed to the
petition as'follows:
Don Alexander Ramirez, intendant of the army, and subdelegate superintendent general of the royal domain of the
island of Cuba and the two Floridas, president of the tribunal
of accounts and of the hoard of tithes, superintendent of the
department of the crusades, judge particular of vessels putting
in port by stress of weather, and protector of the royal lottery, superior chief and inspector of the royal factory of
segars, &c.
Whereas Don Fernando de la Maza Arredondo and Son,
merchants of this city, have presented a memorial to this intendancy general and subdelegate, of the 12th of'November
last, in which they pretend to obtain, as a gratuitous grant, a
lot of land in East Florida, where they have been established,
and where still remains the greater part of their family, and a
i reat deal of their property, offering to form an establishment
in the territory known under the name of Alachua, as it is
adapted to the growing of cattle and the culture of provisions;
sId establishment to be composed of two hundred families,
which they are to convey at their own costs, proposing other
advantages which will result, not only in favour of the other
inhabitants already established, and residents of the city of St
Augustine, but also in favour of the Creek and Seminole Indians living on the borders of that country, provided they obtain in absolute property the said grant limited to four leagues
of land to every point of the compass, fixing as the central
point thereof the indicated tract of Alachua. And the said
memorial having passed by my decree of the 12th instant, to
the captain of infantry, Don Vincente Sebastian 'Pintado, surveyor general of the two Floridas, for his information, which
he gave on the 15th of the same month, with all the necessary
information and solid reasons which de .onstrate and make
known the convenience and utility of providing for the increase of population in said province, witnout expense to the
royal treasury, and of accepting the offers of the interested
parties, on account of the importance of the undertaking, and
of the considerable disbursements which they will have to
make to carry the same into effect. In consequence thereof,
by a decree of the same day, the subject was communicated to

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

the auditor fiscal of the royal domain, who, in his representations of the 17th, founded on the sovereign disposition concerning the increase of population in those possessions of his
majesty, supported the pretensions of Maza Arredondo and
Son, gave his consent in order that the land which they solicit
be granted to them in the terms they propose. Wherefore,
on the day of yesterday, I provided the act which follows:
Seen. In virtue of the royal order of the 3d of September, in
this year, by which, in appointing me superintendent of the
two Floridas, his majesty commands me, in express terms, to
provide for the increase of population in those provinces by
every means which my prudence and zeal may dictate, with
the concurrence of his lordship the fiscal, and with the report
of the surveyor general of the said province, the tract called
Alachua, in East Florida, is declared to belong to the royal
domain. In consequence whereof, and in attention of the notorious integrity and fidelity, to the known capital and other
good qualities of Don Fernando de la Maza Arredondo and
Son, I grant to them the part which they solicit of the said
tract belonging to the royal domain, in conformity to the
sovereign dispositions on this matter, and with the precise
condition to which they obligate themselves to establish thereon
two hundred families, which ought to be Spanish, with all the
requisites which are provided for, and others which will be
provided by this superintendency, in virtue of the said royal
order; the said establishment to begin to be carried into effect
in the term of three years, at farthest, without which this
grant will be null and void; said grant is also understood to be
made without prejudice to a third pat'ty, and especially to the
Indians, natives of that land, who may have returned, or may
pretend to return, to make there their plantations. Let this
expedient pass to the surveyor general above mentioned, in
order that he may make the corresponding plot, in conformity
to his information, and the. granted extent of four leagues to
every wind in a rectilineal figure, with all possible perspicuity,
to avoid future doubts and litigations; which being done, let
the title in form be executed, with the same plot annexed
thereto, a copy of which will remain in the expedient, with
the provision that the said three years allowed to commence
the establishment of families are to run and be counted from

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and othersq

this date; and that, on the first families being prepared and
disposed, the grantees will give notice of it, together with a
list of the individuals, and mention made of the places of which
they are natives, of their occupation, in order that the orders
and instructions which the government and the superintendency of the royal domain in East Florida may see fit to give,
be issued, and in order that an account of the whole be given
in proper time to his majesty.
The figurative plan formed by the surveyor general aforesaid being presented, with the explanation which, in continuation, he gave of the survey and demarcation, it results that the
tract of land is sitpated in East Florida, fifty-two miles, more
or less, distant west from the city of St Augustine, and about
thirty-six miles west of the western margin of the river St
John's; bounded on every side by vacant lands, the place
known by the name of Alachua being towards the centre,
which place was formerly inhabited by a tribe of the Seminole
nation, which abandotied it; and according to the dimensions
and form which were given to the tract in said plot, and the
report annexed to it, it is specified that, as the leagues used in
that province are equal to three English miles, containing each
one thousand seven hundred and sixty yards or eighty chains
of Gunter, the space granted contains two hundred and eightynine thousand six hundred and forty-five English acres, and
five-sevenths of an acre, equal to three hundred and forty-two
thousand two hundred and fifty arpents, and one-seventh of an
arpent, a measure used in West Florida, and counting for an
English acre one hundred and sixty perches and sixteen and a
half feet, London measure, to a lineal perch as used in the
time of the British dominion, and tolerated since by our government. "Wherefore, in the exercise of the faculties which
have been conferred upon me by the king our lord, whom may
God preserve, and in his royal name, I do grant, gratuitously,
to the said Don Fernando de la Maza Arreaondo and Son, the
number of acres of land as above stated, under the limits,
courses, and distances, pointed out in the figurative plot, a
copy of which will be annexed to this title, in order that they
may possess the same as their own property, and enjoy it as
the exclusive owners thereof, and in the terms exposed in my
decree inserted in it.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

In testimony whereof, I have ordered the execution of this
title, signed before me, and sealed with the royal seal used in
my office, and countersigned by the commissary of war, Don
Pedro Carambot, his majesty's secretary of this intendancy and
of the subdelegate superintendency general. Given in the
Havana, on the 22d of December 1817.
[L. s.]
ALEXANDRO RAMIREZ.
PETER CARAMIBOT.

An account of the preceding title has been taken and registered in the book prepared for that purpose in the secretary's
office under my charge. Havana, date as above.
CARAMBOT.

This grant was alleged to have been authorised by a royal
order of .he king of Spain, and other proceedings, of which
the following translation was annexed to the petition.
Don Juan Nepomuceno de Arrocha, honorary comptroller
of the army, and secretary of the intendancy of the public
finance of this island, and that of Puerto Rico.
I do hereby certify, that, in compliance with the decree of
the 7th of this month, of the superintendent Don Francisco
Javier Ambari, made at the petition of Don Fernando de ]a
Maza Arredondo, of the 4th instant, and filed in the secretaryIs office under my charge, exists the royal order of the following tenor.
His majesty, understanding by the letters of your lordship
of the 14th and 18th of August, and 21st of October, of the
year last past, No. 18, 28, and 107, of the resolution concluded
with the captain general of that island, to regulate all that appertains to the branch of the royal finance, and to attend to
the protection and advancement of the two Floridas; and having conformed himself with the advice given by the supreme
council of the Indies, in their deliberations held on the lth of
kugust last, his majesty has been pleased to approve, for the
present, all which has been. done with respect to the repulations of said branch, as also the supplies administered by the
board of royal finance for the payment of the regiment of Louisiana, and other indispensable expenditures for the fortifications and defence of the cities of St Augustine and Pensacola,
authorising your lordship, in case of necessity, to aid or sup-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

ply them. His majesty, likewise, has determined, for the
present, the superintendency of the two Floridas in favour of
your lordship, as superintendent of the island of Cuba: and,
lastly, his majesty has been pleased to command to inform
your lordship, as I now do, that you facilitate the increase of
the population of those provinces, by all means which your
prudence and zeal can dictate, informing, as soon as possible,
the motives for the absence of Don Juan Miguel de Losadas
and Don Manuel Gonzalez Almirez, from their offices.
All which I communicate to your lordship by royal order,
and for your intelligence and compliance thereof God preserve your lordship many years.
GARAY.

Madrid, 3d September 1817.
To the Intendant of Havana.
Havana, 10th October 1823.
JUAN NEPoMrucEN o DE ARROCHA.

From Senor Don Jose Fuertes, intendant pro tem., advising
his having delivered the command to Senor Don Alex'o Ramirez, chosen by his majesty.
Habano, 3d July 1816.
The king, our master, having been pleased to confer on
Senor Don Alexander Ramirez, by a royal commission of the
5th of October of the year last past, the pests of intendant of
the army, superintendent general subdelegate of the royal
domain, which I have provisionally exercised by royal order,
he has this day taken possession of them, and I advise your
excellen~y of it for your information, and due effects to the
service of his majesty. MIay God preserve your excellency
many years.
Jos DE FUERTES.
His excellency subdelegate of the royal domain.
St dugustine, Florida.
The petition proceeded to state: that as an inducement to
tle Spanish government to make the said grant to F. M.
Arredondo and Son, they had offered and stipulated to establish on the same two hundred families, in the event of the said
land being granted to them in full dominion and absolute property; which offer was accepted by the Spanish government,
it requiring that the families should be Spanish. The grant

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

was made in absolute property, subject only to the condition
that the grantees should begin their establishment in three
years from the date of the grant. That though the settlement
of the lands was begun in the months of September or November 1820, yet F. M. Arredondo, who was at Havana, ignorant
of the fact, and knowing that previous to that time the settlement had been prevented by the disturbed state of East Florida,
obtained from Don Ramirez a prolongation of the time of
settlement for one year, by a decree dated 2d December 1820.
The petition avers a performance of the conditions of the grant,
.And that certain Spanish families and subjects were settled on
the lands before and after the prolongation of the time for the
same, and of the time allowed by the eighth article of the treaty
between Spain and the United States, of the 22d February
1819, and that the settlements continue, there being on the
lands a number of Spanish families and citizens of the United
States, cultivating and improving the same.
The petition avers that from the situation of that part of
Florida in which the lands are situated, from the beginning of
1818 until July 1821, they were entitled to that part of the
provision of the eighth article of the treaty, which grants and
secures to the owners of lanads in the territories an extension
of time for the performance of grants. During a considerable
period of time after the grant, the war between the United
States and the Indians prevented the full accomplishment of
the purposes of the petitioners for the settlement of the land;
and the danger from the Indians, which would attend any settlement of land at Alachua, continued until the government of
the United States took efficient means to protect the country,
by posting troops in the same. The petitioners claimed, that
by this state o things, and from these causes, they were exempt
from the fullperformance of the condition of, the grant, as to
the settlement of the land.
The petitiorn proceeds to state, that the cession of East
Florida to the United States has rendered it wholly impracticable for the grantees to introduce and settle two hundred
Spanish families on the land, the emigration of the same being
prohibited by the laws of Spain. And the petitioners insist:
that the original grantees have thus been prevented performing the conditions of the grant; that the original grantees
VOL. VI.-4 N

698

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

and their assigns are thereby discharged of all obligation to
settle families on the lands included in the grant: and that the
United States have failed to ratify the grant, as they were bound
to do under the treaty with Spain, in consequence of which the
grantees could not proceed safely to settle and improve the
land.
The petition alleges that the claims of the petitioners have
been submitted to the examination of the board of commiss.
ioners, under the act of congress of 3d March 1828, entitled
"an act amending and supplementary to the act for ascertaining claims and titles to lands in the territory of Florida, and
to provide for the survey and dispbsal of the public lands in
Florida:" and the proceedings of the board of commissioners
on the same, are annexed to the petition-that the lands claimed
by the petition are within the territory of Florida ceded to the
United States by the treaty with Spain, of 22d February 1819;
that these claims have not been decided and finally settled
under the provisions of -the.act of congress of 23d May 182S,
entitled "an act supplementary to the several acts providing
for the settlement and confirmation of .private land claims in
Florida;" that the respective claims of the petitioners contain
a greater quantity of land than the commissioners were by the
acts of congress authorised to confirm; and that the said claims
of the petitioners for the said lands, have not been reported.
by the commissioners appointed under any of the aforesaid
acts, or any other, or by the register and receiver, acting as
such, under the several acts of the congress of the United
States in that case made and provided, as antedated or forged.
The petition prays that the titl*e of the petitioners to the
land claimed by them may he inquired into by the court,
according to the provisions of the act of congress, &c.
To this petition an answer and supplemental answer Were
filed by the attorney of the United States for the district of
East Florida, at May term 1829, and subsequently.
The answer requires that the petitioners shall' make due
proof that the tract of land claimed by the petitioners was
granted by the Spanish government to Fernando de la Maza
Arredondo and Son, with all the formalities and solemnities
iused in such cases; and that the petitioners held by regular and
legal conveyances under the said grant; and that the court

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

would require of the said petitioners due proof, according to
law and the usages of courts of equity, of the making and execution of the said grant, deeds and conveyances, and of the
matters and things therein contained, and in the said bill
thereof alleged and set forth.
The answer avers that if the grant was executed, as alleged
in the petition, that then Don Alexander Ramirez the intendant, &c. exceeded the powers conferred on him by the crown
of Spain; and that no power had been conferred upon the
iqtendant to make grants of land in Florida -of the magni-'
tiide and description of the one claimed and described in the
petition; and if such. grant was made by the intendant, it was
made contrary to, and in violation of, the laws, ordinances,
and royal regulations of the government of Spain, providing
for the granting'of land in its provinces, and was never approved by the king of Spain; without whose approval it was
wholly null and void. And that if it was so made by the
Spanish government to the said Fernando. de Ia Maza Arredondo and Son, at the time and in manner and form as the
petitioners have alleged, it was made upon the precise obligation, and express condition of their binding themselves to
establish there, to wit, on the said tract of land, two hundred
Spanish families, with all the requisites which were pointed
out to them, and the others which were to be pointed out to
them, by the superintendency, .&c. to wit, on their beginning
their establishment on the said tract of land within three years,
at most, from the date of said grant, without which the said
grant was to be considered null and void: which condition
the said Fernando de ]a AMaza Arredondo and Son accepted,
and engaged to perform. That the said Fernando de ]a Maza
Arredondo and Son did not commence their said establishment
on the said tract of land within the said three years; and they
have not established on the land two hundred Spanish families,
according to their engagement, but have wholly failed so to
do: and farther, that the said condition and obligation have not
been complied with and fulfilled, either by.the said Fernando
de ]a Maza Arredondo and Son, or by any other person or
persons in their behalf, nor by the said petitioners; so far from
it, that the said Fernando de Ia Maza Arredondo and Son,
after the time when the said grant-is supposed to have been

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others I

made as aforesaid, and without having in any manner complied
with the condition thereof, removed their family from the
province of East Florida to the island of Cuba, then and still
one of the dependencies of the crown of Spain; to wit, after
the cession and transfer of the said province to the said United
States, and did then totally abandon the said tract of land.
And that if the said grant was made as is alleged, and upon
the condition mentioned, the performance of the said condition
was a matter of special trust and confidence reposed by the
said Spanish government in the said Fernando de la Maza
Arredondo and Son, which could not have been delegated by
them to aDy other person or persons; and that the sale and
conveyance of said tract of land, or of parts thereof, to the
said petitioners, by the said Fernando de la Maza Arredondo
and Son, in manner and form as is in said bill alleged, without
having first performed the said condition, was a violation of
the special trust and confidence so reposed in theft as aforesaid, and rendered the said grant (if any such was ever made),
by the laws then in force in East Florida, entirely null and
void.
The answer denies that Fernando de Ia Maza Arredondo
and Son were prevented from a compliance with and performance of the condition of the suppoqed grant, by any such
causes, as are in the bill of complaint, by the said petitioners,
alleged and set forth, or that such difficulties at any time existed in relation to the making of the settlement as is charged
in the petitioh; and avers that it would have been perfectly
practicable, with due and reasonable exertion, to have proceeded with the establishment and location of the two hundred
families on the said tract of land, at any time after the period
when the grant is alleged to have been made; and that no circumstances have at any time since that period existed, which
could hrve entitled Fernando de la Maza Arredondo and Son,
or the petitioners, to the benefit of the eighth article of the treaty
in the bill of complaint mentioned; and that, if any of the parties ever were thus entitled, they each and all of them wholly
failed to comply with said condition during the extension of
time given by said treaty; and, farther, that, if any such grant
of further time was given by the intendant, &c. to the said
Fernando de la Maza Arredondo and Son, for the performance

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo av.d others.1

of the said obligation, as is mentioned in the said petition, such
grant was rendered null and void by the latter clause of the said
eighth article of the aforementioned treaty: and that if it had not
been thus rendered null and void, the said Fernando de ]a Maza
Arredondo and Son, and all persons claiming any interest in
the said lan'd through them, entirely failed to avail themselves
of the benefit intended to have been conferred thereby. The
answer denies that the said petitioners are, by the circumstances by them thereunto alleged, stated, and set forth, or by
any other circumstances whatever, absolved from the performance and fulfilment of the said condition and obligation;
or that fhey, or either of them, are entitled to hold the said
tract of land, or any part thereof, discharged from the said
condition or obligation: and farther avers, that, if the said
grant was made to Fernando de ]a Alaza Arredondo and Son
in manner and form as is stated in the petition (which is
not admitted), it was expressly made, and understood to be,
without prejudice to a third person, and especially without
prejudice to the native Indians of that soil, who might then
have returned, or who might wish to return, to establish themselves there again; and, that after the time when the grant is
alleged to have been made as aforesaid, such of the native
Indians of that soil as were then absent, or some of them, did
return, and, together with others of them, who were already
there, wished to and did establish themselves upon the said
tract of lanld.
And the answer avers that the right and title to the said
tract of land was, previous to, and at the time when the grarit
i6 alleged by the petitioners to have been made, vested in
the Florida tribes of Indians, who, previously had, and then
did claim title thereto, and occupy the same in their customary mianner, as their circumstances required; and that the
native Indians formed a part of the Florida tribes: and, farther, that the claim, title, and occupancy of the aforesaid
Indians, constituted the only real obstacle (if any existed) to
the location and settlement of the two hundred Spanish families on the said tract of land; and that the claim, title, and
occupancy of the Indians was a matter of public notoriety,
and could not have been unknown to Fernando de Ia Maza
Arredondo and Son, at the time when the grant is alleged to

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

have been made as aforesaid. And the answer farther says,
that the said claim and title of the said Indians to the said tract
of land was not extinguished until the 18th day of September
in the year of our Lord 1823.
The answer submits that by the laws, ordinances, and royal
regulations of the government of Spain, which were in force
in the province of East Florida at the time when the said grant
is alleged to have been made, it was provided that the diszibution of land.s should be made with equity, and without any,
distinction or preference of persons, or injury to the Indians;
and that it was therein and thereby especially provided and
commanded, that the lands which might be granted to Spanishsubjects should be without prejudice to the Indians, and that
those granted to the injury of the Indians should be restored to
their rightful owners.
The answer further avers, that Fernando de ]a Maza Arredondo and son were, at the time when thie grant is alleged to
have been made as aforesaid, and still are, Spaniards, and
subjects of the government of Spain, and that the grant of the
tract of land (if any such was ever made, as is in said petition
stated) to Vernando de la Maza Arredondo and son was made
to the prejudice and injury of the Florida tribes of Indians.
The answer proceeds to state that the United States claim title
to the said tract of land by virtue of the second article of the
treaty "of amity, settlement and limits, between the United
States and his catholic majesty, which was made, concluded and
signed, between their pleiipotentiaries, at the city of Washington, on the twenty-second day of February, in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and riqneteen, and which was
accepted, ratified and confirmed by the president of the same
United States, by and with the advice and consent of the
senate thereof, on the twenty-second day of February in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-one,
by which his catholic majesty cedod to the said United States,
in full property and sovereignty, all the territories which then
belonged to him, situated to the eastward of the Mississippi,
known by the name of EaSt and West Florida, in which
East Florida the said tract of landis silvate; and, also, by virtue
of the treat, first above mentioned, which was accepted, ratified and confirmed by the president aforesaid, by and with the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

advice and consent of the senate aforesaid, on the second day
of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-four.
The supplemental answer avers that if any such grant of
further time was given by Don Alexander Ramirez, intendant, &c., as aforesaid, to Fernando de la Maza Arredondo
and son, to perform the conditions of the said supposed grant,
the grant of further time was equivalent to a new grant for
the said lands, and that it was made contrary to, and in violation of, the laws, ordinances and royal regulations, and
without any power or authority on the part of the sa id Don
Alexander Ramirez, intendant, &c., as aforesaid, to make
it; and that, if the said Don Alexander Ramirez, intendant,
&c., as aforesaid, had been invested by the said Spanish government with competent power and authority to make grants
of land in Florida of the magnitude and description of the
one claimed and described by the petitioners aforesaid, in
their said petition or bill of complaint, the said grant of farther time aforesaid was made since the 24th day of January
1818, as appears by the showing of the-petitioners themselves,
and was and is rendered wholly null and void by the provisions
of the latter clause of the eighth article of the treaty. And,
that, if any such grant of the said lands was made as aforesaid,
the said Fernando de la Maza Arredondo and- son wrongfully
representcd to the said Alexander Ramirez, intendant, &c., as
aforesaid, in order to obtain it, that the said lands had been
abandoned by the said Indians and were vacant. And that it
was in consequence of the said false, fraudulent and wrongful
representations of the said Fernando de ]a Maza Arredondo
and son, that he, the said Don Alexander Ramirez, intendant,
&c., as aforesaid, declared the said lands to be crown lands,
and granted them to the said Fernando de ]a Maza Arredondo
and son; whereas, in truth, and in fact, the said lands were
not vacant, nor abandoned by the said Indians, but that on the
contrary, the said Indians had constantly been, and still were,
possessed of the said lands, at the date of the said supposed
grant, and that they had continually occupied the same, and
had never left the said lands, unless they were driven.off by a
superior and lawless force, and then only temporarily: and,
therefore, if the said grant was made, as is alleged in the said pe-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

tition or bill of complitnt, and'the said Don Alexander Ramirez, -intendant, &c., as aforesaid, had been and v'as invested,
by the Spanish government aforesaid, with competent power
and authority to make the same, it was fraudulently and surreptitiously obtained, by imposing on the said Don Alexander
Ramirez, intendant, &c., as aforesaid, a false representation of
facts; and, as it might have been cancelled by the king of
Spain on that ground, so it might now be cancelled by the
sovereign authority of the United States: and that court of
equity cannot, consistently with the principles w~iich govern
that tribunal, lend its aid togive effect to a grant obtained by
fraud and misrepresentation. And the answer prays that the
petitioners may be required to show and prove, on the hearing
of the cause, the specific power gM authority which had been
conferred (if any such power had been conferred) bythe Spanish government, upon the said Don Alexander Ramirez, intendant, &c., as aforesaid, at the time when the said, supposed
grant is alleged to have been made as aforesaid, to make grants
of land in East Florida, and, particularly, that they may be
required to show and prove the specific power under which
he claimed to act in making the said supposed grant of lands,
and also the said grant of further time for the performance of
the aforesaid conditions; if, indeed, any such grants were ever
made by him, which is not admitted,
To the answer and the supplemental answer of the United
States, the petitioners put in a general replication: and the
case was regularly proceeded in to a hearing.
On the 1st of November 1830 a decree was given in favour
of the petitioners; from which decree the United States appealed to this court.
The evidence adduced in the court below, on the part of
the petitioners, consisted of the proceedings and the testimony
given before the commissioners of the United States, upon the
claim presented for their consideration according to the provisions of the act of congress; and of additional documehtary
and oral evidence. Testimony was also given on the part of
the United $tates to sustain the allegations in the answer,
and applicable to the several matters therein contained. The
particulars of the matters so exhibited in evidence are noi inserted in the report; as the opinion of the court, and the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

dissenting opinion of Mr Justice Thompson, fully state the
facts of the case, which were considered as established by this
evidence.
The case was argued by Mr Call and Mr Wirt, with whom
also was Mr Taney, attdrney-general, for the United States:
and by Mr White and Mr Berrien, with whom also was Mr
Webster, for the appellees.
The counsel for the United States contended, that the decree
of the superior court of the eastern district of Florida should be
reversed, and-the petition dismissed, on the following grounds:
1. TFe petitioner has not shown, what he was bound to
show affirmatively, the authority of Alexander Ramirez to
make the grant which the decree of the court has confirmed.
2. The intendant of the Island of Cuba was not authorized
to make the grant in question; and it was made in violation of
the laws and ordinances and royal regulations of the government of Spain.
3. The land in controversy was, at the time of the grant,
within the Indian boundary established by the government of
Great Britain during its occupancy of the Floridas, and subsequently acknowledged by the government of Spain; and was
therefore not subject to be disposed of by the subordinate officers of the crown.
4. Conceding, for the sake of argument, that the intendant
had the power to make the grant, the sovereign power alone
could dispense with the conditions annexed to it; and no such
power has been delegated to the judiciary.
5. The grantees failed to perform that condition of the
grant which required them to commence the establishment of
the two hundred Spanish families on the land, within three
years from the date of the grant.
6. The grantees have not complied with the conditions of
the grant which required them to settle two hundred Spanish
Ihrmilies on the land.
7. The prolongation of time for the performance of the conditions of the grant, was given by the.aid intendant after the
ratification of the treaty, by the king of Spairl, which ceded
Florida to the United States; and is consequently void for the
want of authority.
VOL. VI.-4 C

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

8.- The treaty and laws referred to in the decree, as the
grounds of confirmation of the grant, do not justify it.
For the appellees, the following points were insisted upon:
1. By the terms of the treaty, all grants made by his catholie majesty, or his lawful authorities, are to remain valid.
The only questions for the consideration of this court, are:
1st. The genuineness of the grant. 2d. The lawfulness of
the authority by which it was issued.
2. The decree, on which this grant is founded, is a judicial
act, which cannot be drawn into question in the tribunals of
the United States.
3. A genuine grant issued by a lawful authority of his catholic majesty, can only be impeached on the ground of fraud
in obtaining it.
4. This grant was within the scope of the powers expressly
given to the Spanish officer making it, by the laws of the
Indies.
5. It was specifically authorized by the royal order of the
3d Sept. 1817.
'6. There was no existing Indian title to these lands, at the
date of the grant, which could have rendered it invalid.
7. The condition annexed to the grant has been performed.
8. It has been discharged by the act of the party imposing it.
Mr Justice BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the judge of the superior court for the eastern district of the territory of Florida.
After the acquisition of Florida by the United States, in
virtue of the treaty with Spain, of the 22d of February 1-819,
various acts of congress were passed for the adjustment of private claims to land within the ceded territory. The tribunals
appointed to decide on them, were ndt authorised to settle any
which exceeded a league square; on those exceeding that qiiantity, they were directed to report especially their opinion for
the future action of congress. The lands embraced in the
larger claims, were defined by surveys and plats returned;
they werb reserved from sale, and remained unsettled until
some resolution should be adopted for a final adjudication on
their validity, which was done by the passage of the law of

JANUARY TERM 1832.
LUnited States v. Arredondo and others.]

the 23d May 1828, pamph. 62. By the sixth section it was
provided, "that all claims to land within the territory of
Florida, embraced by the treaty, which shall not be finally
decided and settled under the previous provisions of the same
law, containing a greater quantity of land than the commissioners were authorised to decide, and above the amount confirmed by the act, and which have not been reported as antedated or forged, shall be received and adjudicated by the judge
of the superior court of the district within which the land lies,
upon the petition of the claimant, according to the forms, rules,
regulations, conditions, restrictions and limitations prescribed
to the district judge, and claimarts in Missouri, by the act of
the 26th May 1824."
By a proviso, all claims annulled by
the treaty, and all claims not presented to the commissioners,
&c. according to the acts of congress, were excluded. (a)
(a) By a reference to the thirteenth and fourteenth lines in the sixth section
el'
this law, as printed in the pamphlet editiot, in page 62, it reads, "according
to the forms, ri.s, &c. pre'cribed by the district judge and claimants in the state
of MAssouri, &c. by act of congress," &c. To have taken this expression literally, would have confined the superior court of Florida to the rules pr'escribed
by thejudge of the ditrictcourt of .tissouri, and claimants; by acts of congress of 1824. That act authorised the judge to prescribe no rules, and it was
absurd to suppose it meant that the claimants themselves should prescribe them.
The court, therelore, coul not but consider the evident meining of the law to
be "rules," &c. prescribed by the law itself, and was so btated in the opinion,
which was delivered one day sooner than had been expected, and there was no
time for revision. Satisfied that there was an error in the printing, I examined
the original roll in the department of state, yesterday, and found the mistake; the
word by had been inserted in the printed law, instead of to, as it was in the original roll: so that the law reads," the rules, &c. prescribed to the district judge
and claimants by the act of congress." The important bearing of this word on
the power of the court and the rules of its decision, has made the insertion of This
note necessary, and as it may be useful in courts at a distance from the seat of
government to have a correct copy of this
section of the law, the following paper
is diiected to be appended; 20th March 1832. Per Otr Justice Baldwin.
I certfily that
the olblowing is a true copy of the sixth section of an act ot con.
gre's, approved the 23d of May 1828, entitled "an act supplementary to the several acts providing for thre settlement and confirmation of private land claims in
Florida;" viz.
See. 6.And be it further enacted, that all
claims to land within the territory
of Florida, embraced by the treaty between Spair an the United States, of the
22d of February 1819, which Alrall not be decided and finally
settled under the
loregoing proviions o this act, containing a geator quartity of land than the
commissioners were authorised to decide, and above the amoint confirmed by
this act, and which have not been reported as antedated or lorged, by said corn.
rriraioneis, or regiter and teceive actrn a,;
such, shall be received and adjtud-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

The seventh section provided for an appeal by the claimants, and the ninth, by the United States to this court: the
adjudication of the judge of the superior court having been
rendered against the United States, the case comes before us
by an appeal by them.
The law of 1824, which is thus referred to, and forms a
part of that of 1828, furnishes the rules by which this court
must be guided in assuming and exercising jurisdiction to hear
and determine the claim in controversy. This law was passed
to enable claimants to lands within the limits of Missouri and
Arkansas, to institute proceedings to try the validity of their
claims to land prior to the consummation of the cession of the
territory acquired by the United States by the Louisiana treaty;
and enacted, that any person, or their legal representative.
claiming lands by virtue of any French or Spanish grant, concession, warrant, or order of survey, legally made, granted or
issued, before the date of the 10th March 1804, by the proper
authorities, to any persons resident in the province at the date
thereof, which was protected and secured by the treaty, and
which might have been perfected into a complete title, under
and in conformity to the laws, usages and customs of the government under which the same originated, had not the sovereignty been transferred to the United States, may present his
petition to the district court, setting forth the nature of his
claim, the date of the grant, and quantity and boundary, by
whom issued, and whether the claim had been submitted to
any tribunal, and reported on by them, and how,'; praying that
cated by the judge of the superior court of the district within which the land lies,
upon the petition of the claimant, according to the forms, rules, regulations, conditioni, restrictions, and limitations prescribed to the district judge and claimants
in the state of Missouri, by act of congress, approved May zoul, 1824, entitled
I an act enabling the claimants to land within the limits of the state of Missoui
and territory of Arkansas, to institute proceedings to try the vlhdity of their
claims:'

Provided, that nothing in this section shall be construed to authorise

said judges to take cognizance of any claim, annulled by the said treaty or the
decree ratifying the same by the king of Spain; nor any claim not presented to
the commissioners or register and receiver, inconformity to the several atts of

congress providing for the settlement of private land claims in Floida."
Faithfully compared with the roll'in this office.
Witness my hand, at the department of state, in the city of Washirgton, tl14
20th day of March 1832.
(Signed)

DANIEL

BRENT,

C C

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

the validity of their title and claim may be inquired into and
be decided by the court. The court is authorised and required
to hold and exercise jurisdiction of every petition presented in
conformity with the provisions aforesaid, and to bear and determine the same on the petition, in case no answer be filed
after due notice; or on the petition and the answer of any person interested in preventing any claim from being established,
in conformity with the principles ofjustice, and accordingto
the laws and ordinances of the government under which the
claim originated. (3 Story's Laws U. S. 1959, 1960, see. 1.)

A reference to the petition presented by the claimants in
this tase, shows that it contains a full statement of all the matters required by the first section of the Missouri law, excepting the condition of residence, which is not required by the
act of 1828.

Record, I to 22.

It presents a claim for land

in Florida, embraced by the treaty, not finally settled; containing the requisite quantity of land, not reported.on as antedated or forged, not annulled by the treaty, presented to and'
acted on by the commissioners according to law. The superior
couct of Florida then had jurisdiction of the petition to hear
and determine the same, according to the principles of justice
and the laws and ordinances of Spain; and the case is now
regularly before us on an appeal from their decree.
The power to hear and determine a cause is jurisdiction; it
is "coramjudice," whenever a case is presented which brings
this power into action; if the petitioner states such a case in
his petition that on a demurrer the court would render judgment in his favour, it is an undoubted case of jurisdiction,
whether on an answer denying and putting in issue the allegations of the petition, the petitioner makes out his ease, is the
exercise of jurisdictionconferred by the filing of a petition
containing all the requisites and in the manner prescribed by
law.
The proceedings on the petition are to be conducted according to the rules of equity, except that the answer on behalf of
the United States need not be verified on oath.-'ec. 2.
This court has often decided that by these rules are meant
the well settled and established usages and principles of the
court of chancery, as adopted and'recognized in their decisions,
which have been acted on here, under the provisions of the

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and otbers.]

constitution and the acts of congress. In conformity with the
prihciples of justice and the rules of equity, then, the court is
directed to decide all questions arising in the cause, and by a
final decree, to settle and determine the question of the validity
of the title, according to the law of nations, the stipulations
of any treaty andproceedings under the same, the several
acts of congress in relation theretb, and the laws and ordinances of the governmentfrom which it is alleged to be derived, and all other questions which may properly arise
between the claimants and the United States, which decree
shall, in all cases, refer to the treaty, law or ordinance under
which it is confirmed or decreed against. As these are made
the basis of our decision, and this is the first final adjudication
on those laws, we think it necessary to declare the sense in
which we think they were intended by congress, as well as their
plain legal import, agreeably to the rules of construction
adopted by this court, or those which form the principle of the
common law. It is not necessary to define what was meant
by referring to the Lw of nations.
The numerous cases which have been adjudged by this, and
in the circuit courts, make it wholly unnecessary to refer to
the sources from which it has been extracted. By the stipulations of a treaty are to be understood its language and apparent intention manifested in the instrument, 'with a reference
to the contracting parties, the subject matter, and persons on
whom it is to operate. The laws under which we now adjudicateon the rights embraced in the treaty, and its instructions,
authorise and direct us to do it judicially, and give its judicial
meaning and interpretation as a contract on the principles of
justice and the rules of equity. When the construction of this
treaty was under the consideration of the court in the case of
Foster and Elam v. Nelson, 2 Pet. 254, 99, it was under very
different circumstances. The plaintiff claimed a title the
land in controversy under a Spanish grant prior to the treaty,
which he alleged was confirmed by the eighth article; he
stoodsimply on hisright,without any act of congressauthorising the suit, or conferringon the court any extraordinary
powers. The first question which was decisive of the plaintiff's pretensions was whether the lands in contest were within the boundaries of Louisiana, as ceded in 1803, or within

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

Florida, as ceded in 1819. The boundary between the two
territories had been for many years the subject of controversy
and negotiation between the American and Spanish governments, the one claiming that Louisiana extended eastward of
the Mississippi to the Perdido; the other that it did not extend
on that side of the river beyond the island of Orleans, alleged
'to be separated'from West Florida by the Iberville. To have
decided in favour of the plaintiff would have been adopting the
Spanish construction of the Louisiana treaty in opposition
to the pretensions and course of this government, which
had taken possession of and exercised the powers of government over the territory between the Mississippi and the Perdido.
This court did not deem the settlement of boundaries a judicial but a political question-that it was notits duty to lead,
but to follow the action of the other departments of the government; that when individual rights depended on national
boundaries, "the judiciary is not that department of the government to which the assertion of its interests against foreign
powers is confided, and its duty commonly is to decide upon
individual rights according to those principles which the political departments of the nation have established."
"If the
course of the nation has been a plain one, its courts would
hesitate to pronounce it erroneous." "We think, then, however individual judges might construe the treaty of St Ildefonso, it is the province of the court to conform its decisions
to the will of the legislature, if that will has been clearly expressed." 2 Peters, 307.
As to the other question depending on the stipulations of the
eighth article, the court declared: 2nd the legislaturemust
execute the contractbefore it can become a rule for the court.
2 Peters, 314. But this case assumes a very different aspect.
The only question depending is whether the claimants or the
United States are the owners of the land in question. By
consenting to be sued, and submitting the decision to judicial
action, they have considered it as a purely judicial question,which we are now bound to decide as between man and man,
on the same subject matter and by the rules which congress
themselves have prescribed, of which the stipulationsof any
treaty and the proceedings under the same, form one of four

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

distinct ones. We must therefore be distinctly understood as
not in the least impairing, but affirming the principle of Foster v. Nelson. As the law giving jurisdiction to hear and determine this case not only authorises but requires us to decide
it according to the law of nations and the stipulations of the
treaty, we shall consider, " that it has been very truly urged
by the counsel of the defendant in error, that it is the usage
of all the civilized nations of the world, when territory is
ceded, to stipulate for the property of tits inhabitants. An
article to secure this object, so deservedly held sacred, in the
view of policy, as well as of justice and humanity, is always
required and is never refused." Henderson v. Poindexter,
12 Wheat. 535. When such an article is contained in a treaty
of cession, and its meaning submitted to our consideration, we
shall follow up and effectuate the intention of congress, by
deeming the subject matter to be, whether the land in controversy was the property of the claimants before the treaty, and
if so, that its protection is as much guarantied by the laws of
a republic as ;the ordinances of a monarchy. In so doing, we
adopt and act upon another principle, contained in the opinion
of this court ;in the same case, in alluding to the treaty of boundary between the United States and Spain, concluded on the
27th October, 1795. "Had Spain considered herself as ceding
territory, she could, not have neglected a stipulation which
every sentiment of justice and national honour would have
demanded, and which the United States could, not have refused." Henderson v. Poindexter, 12 Wheat. 535. Spain
was not regardless of those sentiments. She did not neglect;
the United States did not refuse the stipulation in this treaty
which did cede territory. In the same spirit of justice and
national honour the national legislature has required its highest
judicial tribunal to finally decree on the effect of this stipulation on theirs and the rights of the claimants "according to
the law of nations" which is "the usage of all civilized
nations." Such is the authority conferred on this court, and
by the rules prescribed by the laws, which are our commission, we feel, in its language, "both authorised and required,"
"with full power and authority to hear and determine all
questions arising in this cause relative to the title of the claimants) the extent, locality and boundaries of the said claim) or

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

other matters connected therewith, fit and proper to be heard
atid determined, and by a final decree, to settle and determine
the same according to the law of nations," 2d sec. act of 1824.
Congress have laid this down as the first rule of our decision
in the spirit of justice and national hondur which pervades this
law; the court will concider it as neither the last or least of
its duties to embody it in such their final decree, if in their
judgment the case before it calls for its application.
Our next rule of decision is-and proceedings under the
treaty. By these are to be understood the acts and proceedings of the government, or others under its authority, subsequent to the treaty, in taking possession of the ceded territory,
in organizing the local government, its acts within the authority of the organic law, the promises madL, the pledges
given by either the general or local government. Also the
proceedings of commissioners and other officers or tribunals
appointed by congress to decide, and report on these claims so
far as they have adopted and settled any rules and principles
of decision within their powers, as guides to their judgment.
These, in our opinion, are the "proceedings under the same,"
referred to, and intended by, the law, according to which we
may decide, and are made a rule, a precedent for us.
The next guide is, "the several acts of congress in relation
thereto," clearly referring to the clause immediately preceding: ",the stipulation of any treaty and proceedings under
By "the several qcts of congress in relation
the same."
thereto," must be taken as refcrring to all the laws on the subject matter of either, necessarily embracing lands, property
and rights depending on the stipulations and proceedings so
made and had. Thus the course of the legislature points to
that of the judiciary, it must be in the same path.
Where congress have, by confirming the reports of commissioners or other tribunals, sanctioned the rules and principles on which they were founded, -it is a legislative affirmance
of the construction put by these tribunals on the laws conferring the authority and prescribing the rules by which it should
be exercised; or which is to all intents and purposes of the
same effect in law. It is a legislative ratification of an act
done without previous authority, and this subsequent recogniVOL. VI.-4 P

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

tion and adoption is of the same force as if done by pre-existing
power and relates back to the act done.
The next rule laid down for our direction is, "and the laws
and ordinances of the government from which it is alleged to
be derived." The laws of an absolute monarchy are not its
legislative acts-they are the will and pleasure of the monarch
expressed in various ways-if expressed in any, it is a law;
there is no other law making, law repealing power-call it by
whatever name-a royal order-an ordinance-a cedula-a decree of council-or an act of an authorised officer-if made or
promulgated by the king, by his consent or authority, it becomes
as to the persons or subject matter to which it relates, a law of
the kingdom. It is emphatically so in Spain and all its dominions. Such, too, is the law of a Spanish province conquered by England. The instructions of the king to his
governors are the, supreme law of the conquered colony;
magna charta, still less the common law, does not extend its
principles to it-King v. Picton, 30 St. Tr. 8vo ed. 866. A
royal order, emanating from the king, is a supreme law, superseding and repealing all other preceding ones inconsistent with
it. The laws of the Indies, have not their force as such by
any legislative authority vested in the council; their authority is by the express or implied expression of the royal
will and pleasure; they must necessarily yield to an order, prescribing a new rule, conferring new powers abrogating or
modifying previous ones.
The principle that the acts of a king are in subordination
to the laws of the country, applies only where there is any
law of higher obligation than his will; the rule contended for
may prevail in a British, certainly not in a Spanish province.
There is another source of law in all governments, usage, custom, which is always presumed to have been adopted with the
consent of those who may be affected by it. In England, and
in the states of this union which have no written constitution,
it is the supreme law; always deemed to have had its origin in
an act of a state legislature of competent power to make it
valid and binding, or an act of parliament; which, representing all the inhabitants of the kingdom, acts with the consent
of all, exercises the power of all, and its acts become binding
by the authority of all; 2 Co. Inst. 58-Wills, 116. So it is

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]
considered in the states and by this court; 3 Pall. 400; 2 Peters.
656, 657.
A general custom is a general law, and forms the law of a
contract on the subject matter; though at variance with its
terms, it enters into and controls its stipulations .s an act of
parliament or state legislature; 2 Mod. 238; W. Black. 1225;
Doug. 207; 2 D. and E. 263-264; 1 H. Bi. 7, 8; 2 Binney,
486, 487; 5 Binney, 287; 2 S. and R. 17; 8 Wh. 591, 592;
9 Wh. 584, 591; and the cases there cited from 4 Mass.
252; 9 .Mass. 155; 3 Day, 346; 1 Caines, 43; 18 Johns.
230; 5 Cr. 492; 6 D. and E. 320; Day, 511; 5 Cr. 33.
The court not only may, but are bound to notice and respect general customs and usage as the law of the land,
equally with the written law, and, when clearly proved, they
will control the general law; this necessarily follows from its
presumed origin,-an act ofparliament or a legislative &ct.
Such would be our duty under the second section of the act of
1824, though its usages and customs were not expressly named
as a part of the laws or ordinances of Spain. The first section
of that act, giving the right to claimants of land under titles
derived from Spain, to institute this proceeding for the purpose of ascertaining their validity and jurisdiction to the court
to hear and determine all claims to land which were protected
and secured by the treaty, and which might have been perfected into a legal title under and in conformity to the laws,
uisages, and customs of Spain; makes a claim founded on them
one of the cases expressly provided for. We eannot impute
to congress the intention to not only authorize this court, but
to require it to take jurisdiction of such a case, and to hear and
determine such a claim according to the principles of justice;
by such a solemn mockery of it as would be evinced by excluding from our consideration usages and customs, which
are the law of every government, for no other reason than that
in referring to the laws and ordinances in the second section,
congress had not enumerated all the kinds of laws and ordinances by which we should decide whether the claim would
be valid if the province had remained under the dominion of
Spain. We might as well exclude a royal order because it
was not called a law. We should act on the same principle,
if the words of the second section were less explicit, and ac-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

cording to the rule established in Henderson v. Poindexter.
See 12 Wh. 530, 540.
We are also required to finally decide "all other questions
properly arising between the claimants and the United States."
There is but one which has arisen in this case which does
not refer to the laws of nations, the treaty and proceedings
under it, the acts of congress, or the laws of Spai,-that is, the
question of fraud in making the grant which is the faundation
of the plaintiff's title; which, as well as all others, we must, by
the terms of the law, decide "in conformity with the principles of justice." We know of no. surer guides to the principles of justice, than the rules of the common law, administered under a special law, which directs, (section second)
"that every petition which shall be presented under the
provisions of this act, shall be conducted according to the
rules of a court of equity," and it does not become this
tribunal to acknowledge that the decisions of any other are to
be deemed better evidence of those rules or the principles of
justice.
In Conard versus Nicoll, a great and lamented judge thus
defined fraud: "The first inquiry is, what is fraud? From
a view of all that has been said by learned judges and jurists
upon this subject, it may be safely laid down, that to constitute
actual fraud between two or more persons to the prejudice of a
third, contrivance and design to injure such third person by
depriving him of some right, or otherwise impairing it, must
be shown."

He laid down three rules, which were incontrovertible:"1. That actual fraud is not to be presumed, but ought to
be proved by ,he party who alleges it.
"2. If the motive and design of an act may be traced to an
honest and legitimate source equally as to a corrupt one, the
former ought to be preferred. This is but a corollary to the
preceding principle.
"3. If 1he person against whom fraud is alleged, should be
proved to have been guilty of it in any number of instances,
still if the particular act sought to be avoided be not shown to
be tainted with fraud, it cannot be affected by these other frauds,
unless in some way or other it be connected with or form a part
of them."
This court unanimously adopted these principles as the max-

JANUARY TERM 18.32.
[United States Y. Arredondo and others.]

ims of the common law; 4 Peters, 295, 296, 297, 310; and will
be governed by them in this case in their opinion on the question of fraud.
The next subject for our consideration is, the evidence on
which we are to decide. The third section of the act is as follows: "That the evidence which has been received by the
different tribunals which have been constituted and appointed
by law to receive such evidence, and to report the same to the
secretary of the treasury, or to the commissioners of the general land office, upon all claims presented to them, respectively, shall be received and admitted in evidence for oragainst the
United States, in all trials under this act, when the person testifying is dead or beyond the reach of the court's process, together with such other testimony as it may be in the power of
the petitioner, the person or persons interested in the defence
made against establishing any claim, or the United States' attorney to produce; and which shall be admissibleaccording to
the rieles of evidcnce and the principles of law."
These provisions of the act of 1S24 are applicable to this case;
they have not been altered by the act of 1828, and by the zighth
section axe expressly extended to the Florida claims. They
are liberal-worthy of the government which has adopted and
made them the rules by which to test therights of private claimants to portions of the land embraced in the ceded territory.
From a careful examination of the whole legislation of congress
on the subject of the Louisiana and Florida treaties, we cannot
ritertain a doubt that it has from their beginning been inten(led that the titles to the lands claimed should be settled by the
sanme rules of construction, law and evidence, in.all their newly
acquired territory. That they have adopted as the basis of all
their acts, the principle that the law of the province in which
the land is situated is the law which gives efficacy to the grant,
and by which it is to be tested, whether it was properlyat the
time the treaties took effect.
The United States seem never to have claimed any part of
what could be shown by legal evidence and local law to have
beeun severed from the royal domain before their right attached. In giving jurisdiction to the district court of Missouri to
decideon these claims, the only case expressly excepted is that of
Jacques Glamorgan (in section 1-1,3 Story L. U. S. 1964); and
in the corresponding law, as to Florida; those annulled by the

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

treaty, and those not presented in time, according to the acts
of congress (section 6, pamphlet 62).
The United States have by three cessions acquired territory,
within which there have been many private claims to land under
Spanish titles. The first in point of time was by the compact
with Georgia, in 1802, by the terms of which it was stipulated
-cc That all persons who, on the 27th October 1795, were actual settlers within the territory thus ceded, shall be confirmed
in all their grants, legally and fully executed prior to that day,
by the former British government of West Florida, or by the
government of Spain." (1 Laws, 489.)
The stipulations of the treaties by which they acquired Louisiana and Florida, contained provisions of a similar nature as to
claims to land under Spain before the cession.
The whole legislation of Congress, from 1803 to 1828, in relation to the three classes of cases, so far as respected Spanish
titles, is of an uniform character on cases of a corresponding
description. The rules vary according to the kind of title set
up; distinctions have been made in all the laws between perfect
or complete grants, fully executed, or inchoate incomplete
ones, ,where a right had been in its inception, under or by
colour of local law or authority, but required some act of the
government to be done to complete it. Both classes have been
submitted to the special tribunals appointed to settle, to report
finally or specially upon them, and the claimants have, under
certain circumstances, been permitted to assert their rights in
court by various'laws, similar in their general character, but
varying in detail to meet the cases provided for.
They are too numerous to be noticed in detail-some will
be referred to hereafter; but it is sufficient for the present to
observe, that from the whole scope and spirit of the laws on
the subject of Spanish titles, the intention of congress is most
clearly manifested, that.the tribunals authorised to examine
and decide on their validity, whether special or judicial, should
be governed by the same rules of law and evidence in, their
adjudication on claims of the same given character. The
second and third sections of the Missouri act of 1824, the first,
sixth, and eighth of the Florida act of 1828, can admit of no
other construction. It was within the discretion of the legislature to select the cases to be submitted to either tribunal;

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

they have directed that no claims should be decided on by a
special tribunal which is for a quantity greater than one league
square; they had reserved to themselves the disposition of those
for a larger amount, and finally have devolved on this court
their final decision. These are good reasons for the jurisdiction being conferred-but the selection of this tribunal for a
final and conclusive adjudication on the large claims, affords
neither an indication of the intention of congress, pr furnishes
us any reason; that in the exercise of that jurisdiction, wt
should consider that "the principles of-justice," the rules of a
court of equity, "the law of nations," of treaties ":of congress, " or of "Spain," the rules of evidence, or the "principles of law," can be at all affected by the magnitude of the
claim under consideration. The laws which- confer the authority and point to the guides for its exercise, make no such
discrimination, and every "principle of justice" forbids it.
By the laws of congress on this subject, however, we must be
distinctly understood as not comprehending those which have
been passed on special cases or classes of cases, over which
they had delegated to no tribunal power to decide, but which
were disposed of according to circumstances of which they
chose to be the exclusive judge. There is another duty imposed on the court by the second section of the act of 1824,
after making a final decree; ." which decree shall, in all cases,
refer to the treaty, law, or ordihance, under which it is confifined or decreed against;" so that we may make a final decree
to settle and determine the validity of the title according to
either the law of nations, "the stipulations of any treaty, law, or
ordinance" referred to; and if, by either the one or more rules of
decision thus prescribed, we shall be of opinion that the title
of the claimants was such as might have been perfected into
comFlete title under and in conformity to the laws of Spain, if
the sovereignty of the country had not been transferred to the
United States, in the words of the Missouri law of 1824; or
which were valid under the Spanish government, or by the
laws of nations, and which were not rejected by the treaty
ceding the-territory of East and West Florida to the United
States, in the words of the Florida laws of 1822-and 1823, 3
Story, 1870, 1907, referred to and adopted in that of 1828,
we can decree finally on the title. These laws being in ,'part

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

materia," and referred to in the one giving us jurisdiction,
must be taken as one law, "reddendo singula singulis."
The counsel of the United States have considered the merits
of this case as resting mainly, if not wholly, on the eighth
article of the treaty; but the law compels us to take a view of
it much less limited. That article names only grants; and if
we decide alone on it, we must decree against the claim, unless we think the title good under it; though if it was for a
quantity not exceeding a league square, any other tribunal
would confirm it. This would be making a distinction so
unworthy a just legislature, that we shall not impute to them
the intention of directing it to be the rule of our action. We
shall certainly not adopt it unless it is clearly imposed by the
authority of a law expressed in terms admitting of no doubt.
The fourth section of the Florida act of 1S22, 3 Story, 1870,
er.acts that every person claiming title to lands under any
patent, grant, concession, or order of survey, dated previous
to 24th January 1818, which were valid under the Spanish
government, or the laws of nations, and which were not rejected by the treaty, shall file his, her, or their claim, &c.
"And said commissioners.shall proceed to examine, and determine on the validity of said patents, grants, concessions and
orders of survey agreeably to the laws and ordinaices heretofore existing of the governments making the grants respectively, having due regard in all Spanish claims, to the conditions
and stipulations contained in the eighth article of the treaty
of 22d of February" 1819. The intention of this provision
cannot be misunderstood; due regard must be had to this article, it must be considered, weighed, and deliberated upon in
connexion with the other matters which form the rule of decision. A decree may be founded upon the stipulations of* the
treaty'and proceedings under it-or it may be independent of
them, according to the laws of nations, congress, or Spain;
each of which is of as high obligation as the treaty and on
either of which alone we may found our decree. Though the
term "law of nations" is not carried into the second clause of
the fourth section of the act of 1822, yet we consider it a rule
of decision for the reasons before stated, and on the authority
of Henderson v. Poindexter-the manifest object of the law
in directing those claims to be filed, which are valid by the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and other.j

law of nations, is, that they shall be adjudicated on accordingly
by the authorized tribunal.-To impute to congress the intention of directing them to be filed, described, and recorded; and
forever barred if not so recorded, and of ordering the tribunal
to examine and decide on their validity, and in the same sentence withhold from the same tribunal the power of doing it,
by the principles of the same law on which they were founded
and by which they were made valid, would be utterly inconsistent with every rule of law. The sixth section of the act of
1828, is still more comprehensive, it provides that all claims
to land, within the territory of Florida, embraced by the treaty
of 1819, which shall not be decided and finally settled under
the foregoing provisions of this act, containing a greater quantity of land, &c. and which have not been reported on as antedated or forged by the commissioners, not annulled by the
treaty and reported on by the commissioners, shall be received
and adjudicated by the judge of the superior court of the district (see pamphlet, 62). This includes all claims-the former
laws included only those specially designated-this embraced
all not before decided, and not finally settled, with only two
exceptions-one as to quantity, the other as to date and forgery.
Whether then the present claim is by patent, grant, concession, warrant, or order of survey, or any other act which might
have been perfected into a complete title, by laws, usages, and
customs of Spain, is immaterial as to our power io hear and
determine. The fifth section of the Missouri act (3 Story,
1962), and the twelfth section of the Florida act (pamphlet, 63),
finally bars at law and in equity all claims to lands, tenements,
and hereditaments within theie purview, which ar6 not brought
by petition before the court. They are of course not cognizable by them.
We now proceed to consider the validity of the present
claim.-The claimant offered and gave in evidence an original
grant, from Don Alexandre Ramirez, styling himself, :gin-'
tendant of the army, subdelegate superintendent general of the
royal domain of the island of Cuba, and the two Floridas,"
&c. &c. It purported to convey the land in controversy to
Arredondo and Son, to have been made in' the exercise of the
faculties which had been conferred on Ramirez by the king;
it was made in the royal name for the number of acres of land,
VOL. VI.-4 Q

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

under the limits, courses, and distances pointed out in the figurative plot. In order that they may possess the same as their
own property, and enjoy it as the exclusive owners thereof;
and in the terms mentioned in the decree therein recitedwith an absolute dominion over and full property in it. The
grant purports to be made on great deliberation and in solemn
form; as a sentence in the official dapacities which were assumed, "upon examination and in virtue of the royal order of
3d of September of the present year, in which his majesty
having appointed me superintendent of the two Floridas, desires me in the strongest terms to procure the settlement of
these provinces by every means which my zeal and prudence
can suggest." "In conformity with the fiscal (the attorneygeneral) and the report made by the surveyor general, I declare as crown property the territory of Alachua" (the lands
in question). The grant then followed, "signed with my
hand, sealed with the royal arms, as used in my secretary's
office, and countersigned by the commissary at war, Don Pedro
Cerambat, secretary for his majesty in this intendency," and
"cregistered in the book for that purpose in the office under
the secretary's charge."
No objection appears to have been
made to the admission of this paper in evidence; its genuineness seems not to have been contested-no attempt was male
to impeach it as antedated or forged, and its due execution in
all the forms known to the local government was unquestioned.
It was therefore before the court below, and is so here, at least,
prima facie evidence of a grant of the land it describes to the
claimants, the rules of evidence and the principles of law give
it this effect and so it must be considered. Here an important
question arises--whether the several acts of congress relating to
Spanish grants do not give this grant and all others which are
complete and perfect in their forms "legally and fully executed," a greater and more conclusive effect as evidence of a
grant by proper authority.
It is but a reasonable presumption that congress in legislating on the subject of Spanish grants in the three territories
which they have acquired since 1802, and in devising and
providing efficient means for the ascertaining and finally settling all claims of title-under them by persons asserting that
the lands they claimed had been severed from the public

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and otherm.]

domain before the cessions of the territory to the United States.
That when they have by a series of laws from 1803, to 1828
authorized special and subordinate tribunals to decide on claims
to the extent of a league square, inferiqr courts to decide on
all claims to any amount, and finally, if no appeal is taken; and
this court to pronounce a final decree on appeal, which may
separate millions of acres from the common fund. They would
have made what was deemed adequate provision to guard the
public from spurious grants, by prescribing for the various
tribunals authorized to decide on "claims such rules of evideuce applicable to those grants as would secure the interest
of the nation from fraud and imposition."
Yet, in their whole
legislation on the subject (which has all been examined), there
has not been found a solitary law which directs; that the authority on which a grant has been made under the Spanish
government should be filed by a claimant-recorded by a public officer, or submitted to any tribunal appointed to adjudicate
its validity and the title it imparted-congress has been content that the rights of the United States, should be surrendered
and confirmed by patent, to the claimant, under a grant purporting to have emanated -under all the official forms and sanctions of the local government. This is deemed evidence of
their hving been issued by lawful, proper, and legitimate
authority-when unimpeached by proof to the contrary.
In providing for carrying into effect the stipulations of the
compact of cession with Georgia, the fifth section of the act of
1803 provides. That all persons claiming land Ipursdant
thereto should before the 1st March 1804, deliver to the register of the land office, in the proper district, a notice containing
a statement of the nature and extent of his claim and a plot
thereof; also, for the purpose of being recorded; every grant,
order of survey, deed of conveyance, or other written evidence of his claim-in default whereof all his right, so far as
depended on the cession, or the law was declared void-forever barred-and the grant inadmissible in any court in the
United States against any grant from them. (2 Story, 894,895.)
By the sixth section, it was providel, that When it should be
made to appear to the commissioners that the claimant was
entitled to a tract of land under the cession in virtue pf a
Spanish or British grant legally andfully executed, they

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

were directed to give hinm a certificate which amounted to a
relinquishment of the claim of the United States for ever,
when recorded. The fact which gave to the recorded certificate of the commissioners the effect of a patent, was the existence of a grant; the legality and fullness of its execution only
was required to be made to appear. No inquiry was directed
to be made as to the authority by which it was done; the
United States were too just to exait from the grantees of land
under an absolute colonial government what no court requires
from one who holds lands under the granit of the United States
or of a state fully executed: or if inchoate never compels a
claimant to produce the authority of the officer who issues or
executes a warrant or order of survey; it is always presumed
to-be done regularly till the contrary appears, or such reasons
are offered for doubting its authenticity, as are sufficient in law
to rebut the legal presumption. By the first section of the
supplementary act of 1804, claimants by complete British or
Spanish grants are required to record no evidence of their
claim except the originalgrant or patent with the warrant
or order of survey and the plat-the other papers were to be
deposited with the register of the land office, in order to be
laid before the commissioners for their consideration. (Act of
March 27, 1804,2 Story, 952.)
As no law required the exhibition of the authority under
which a grant warrant, or order of survey was made; as it
formed a part of the evidence of title to be recorded, deposited,
or acted on by the commissioners, they were not authorized to
call for it before making their decision.
The grant legally and fitlly executed was competent evidence of the matters set forth in it, and as none other was
necessary it was in effect conclusive. But congress thought
it proper to authorise the commissioners not to confine their
examination to the mere execution of the alleged grant. By
the third section of the same law it is provided as follows.
"Or whenever either of the. said boards shall not besat'sfied
that such grant, warrant or order of survey, did issue at the
time it bears date, the said commissioners shall not be bound
to considersuch grant, warrant, or order of survey as conclusive evidence of the title, but may requiresuch other proof
of its validity; as they may think proper."-Nothing can more

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

clearly manifest the undvstanding of congress that such grant,
&c was conclusive evidence of title, and that the commissioners were not under the existing laws, at liberty to require from
the claimants any other proof, than their conferring on them
by express words the power of doing so. "Expressio unius
est exclusio alterius," is an universal maxim in the construction
of statutes.
In the law of the succeeding session, passed for ascertaining
and adjusting the titles and claims to land within the territory
of Orleans and district of Louisiana, it was directed that the evidence of claims to land should be recorded-but there was this
proviso in the fourth section: "That where lands are claimed
by virtue of a complete French or Spanish grant as aforesaid,
it shall not be necousary for the claimant to have any other
evidence of his claim recorded, than the originalg'antor
patent; together with the warrant or order of survey, and the
plot." Other provisions follow similar to those in the preceding law relating to claims included in the articles of agreement, with Georgia. (2 Story, 967,968.) By the fifth section
the commissioners are directed to "decide in a summary manner, according to justice and equity, on all claims filed with the
register and recorder, in conformity with the provisions of this
act, and on all complete F~rench or Spanish grants, the evidence of which, though not thusfiled, may befound of record
on the public records of such grants, which decision shall be
laid before congress in the manner hereinafter directed, and
be subject to their determination thereon." The commissionera shall not be bound to consider such grant, warrant, or
order, of survey as conclusive evidence of title, when they
were not satisfied that it issued at the time it bears date, but that
the same is antedated or otherwise fraudulent,they may then
require such other proof of its validity as they may think proper. By proof of validity must be understood of its genuineness
and authenticity, and that it is not fraudulent; so as to satisfy
themselves as to those doubts which authorized them to require further proof than the grant itself, of its legal, full and
fair execution; not of the authority of the officer who made it
-no law gives power to exact proof of that. This act of
congress proves, that by considering the recordedgrantas conclagive evidence of title, (which cannot be without power in

SUPREME COURT.
LUnited States v. Arredondo and others.]

the grantor) unless it is antedated or otherwise fraudulent, the
authority of the officer making it was presupposed.
The act of 1822, for ascertaining claims and titles to land
in the territory of Florida (3 Story, 1870)-directs all persons
claiming title to lands under any patent, grant, concession or
order of survey, to file before the commissioners their claim,
"setting forth its situation and boundaries, if to be ascertained,
with their deraignment of title, where they are not the
grantees or original claimants," which shall be recorded, &e.
section 4. This dispenses with the filing the warrant or order
of survey, the survey or plot required by the laws relating 'to
both the Georgia and Louisiana claims, as they need not set
forth or file their deraignment of title, where they claim by a
grant, patent, &e. to themselves. The direction of the law
can apply only to such grant or patent, &c.; this being filed and
recorded; the fifth section enacts, "that the commissioners
shall have power to innuire into the validity and justice of the
claims filed with them, and if satisfied that said claims be correct and valid, shall give confirmation to them, which shall
operate as a release of any interest which the United States
may have." The second section of the act of 1823, supplementary to the last, dispenses with the necessity of producing
in evidence, before the commissioners, the deraignment of
title from the original grantee or patentee; but the commissioners shall confirm every claim in favour of actual settlers at the
time of the cession, &c. when the quantity "claimed does not
exceed three thousand five hundred acres." (3-Story, 1907.)
By the act of 1824, for extending the time limited for the
settlement of private land claims in the territory of Florida,
"the claimants shall not be required to produce in evidence
a deraignment of title from the original grantee or patentee,
but the exhibition of the originaltitle papers, agreeably to
the fourth section of the act of 1822, with the deed or devise to
the -claimant, and the office abstracts of the intermediate conveyances for the last ten years preceding the surrender of
Florida to the United States; and.when they cannot be produced, their absence being accounted for satisfactorily, shall
be sufficient evidence of the right of the claimant or claimants to the land so claimed, as against the United States."
-(3Story, 1935, section 2.)

JANUARY TERM 1892.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

It is thus clearly evidenced, by the acts, the words, and
intentions of the legislature, that in considering these claims
by the special tribunals, the authority of the officer making the
grant, oi other evidence of claim to lands, formed no item in
the title it conferred; that the United States never made that a
point in issue between them and the claimants to be even considered, much less adjudicated. They have submitted to the
principle which prevails as to all public grants of land, or acts
of public officers, in issuing warrants, orders of survey, permission to cultivate or improve, as evidence of inceptive and
nascent titles, which is; that the public acts of public officers
purporting to be exercised in an official capacity and by public
authority, shall not be presumed to be an usurped, but a legitimate authority, previously given or subsequently ratified,
which is equivalent. If it was not a legal presumption that
public and responsible 'officers claiming and exercising the
right of disposing of the public domain, did it by the order
and consent of the government, in whose name the acts were
done, the confusion and uncertainty of 'titles and possessions
would be infinite, uven in this country; especially in the states
whose tenures to land depend on every description of inceptive, vague and inchoate equities, rising in the grade of evidence, by iarious intermediate acts, to a full and legal confirmation, by patent, under the great seal.
To apply the principle contended for to the various papers
which are sent from the general 'or the local land offices, as
instructions to officers under their direction; or evidence of
incomplete title to land, by requiring any other evidence of
the authority, by which it was done than the signature of the
officer, the genuineness of the paper, proved by witnesses or
authenticated by an official seal, would be not only of dangerous tendency, but an entire novelty in our jurisprudence, as
"a rule of equity or evidence," or "principle of law or justice." The judicial history of the landed controversies, under
the land laws of Virginia and North Carolina, as construed and
acted on within those states, and in those where the lands
ceded by these states to the United States lie, and Pennsylva-,
nia, whose land tenures are very similar in substance, in all
which the origin of titles is in very general, vague, inceptive
equity; will show the universal adoption of the iule, that the

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and otbers.]

acts of public officers in disposing of public lands, by colour
or claim of public authority, are evidence thereof until the
contrary appears by the showing of those who oppose the title
set up under it and deny the power by which it is professed to
begranted. Without the recognition of this principle, there
would be no safety in title papers, and no security for the
enjoyment of property under them. It is true that a grant
made without authority is void under all governments--9 Cr.
99, 5 Wh. 303,-but in all the question is on whom the law
throws the burthen of proof, of its existence, or non-existence.
A grant is void, unless the grantor has the power to make itbut it is not void because the grantee does not prove or produee it. The law supplies this proof by legal presumption,
arising from the full, legal, and complete execution of the official grant, under all the solemnities known or proved to exist
or to be required by the law of the country where it is made
and the land is situated.
A patent under the seal of the United States or a state is
conclusive proof of the act of granting by its authority; its
exemplification is a record of absolute verity. Patterson v.
Winn,'5 Peters, 241.
The grants of colonial governors, before the revolution,
have always been, and yet are, taken as plenary evidence of
the grant itself, as well as authority to dispose of the public
lands. Its actual exercise, without any evidenceof disavowal,
revocation, or denial by the king, and his consequent acquiescence and presumed ratification, are sufficient proof in the
absence of any to the contrary (subsequent to the grant) of the
royal assent to the exercise of his prerogative by his local
governors. This or no other court can require proof that there
exists in every government a power to dispose of its property;
in the absence ofany elsewhere, we are bound to presume and
consider, that it exists in the officers or tribunal who exercises
it, by making grants, and that it is fully evidenced, by occupation, enjoyment, and transfers of property, had and made under
them, without disturbance by any superior power, and respected by all co-ordinate and inferior officers and tribunals
throughout the state, colony or province where it lies.
A public grant, or one made in the name and assumed authority of the sovereign power of the country, has never been

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Aredando and others.]

considered as a special verdict; capable of being aided by no
inference of the existence of other facts than those expressly
found or apparent by necessary implication, an objection to its
admission in evidence on a trial at law, or a hearing in equity,
is in the nature of a demurrer to evidence on the ground of its
not conducing to prove the matter in issue.
If admitted, the court, jury, or chancellor, must receive it as
evidence both of the facts it recites and declares, leading to and
tne foundation of the grant, and all other facts legally inferable
by either from what is so apparent on its face. Taking, then,
as a settled principle, that a public grant is to be taken as
evidence that it issued by lawful authority, we proceed to
examine the legal effect of a Spanish grant in adjudicating on
their validity, by the principles of justice in a court; and by
the rules of equity, evidence, and law, directed by the act of
1824, which forms a part of the law under which their validity
is :submitted to our judicial consideration.
The validity and legality of an act done by a governor of
a conquered proviice, depends on the jurisdiction over the
.ubject matter delegated to Lim by his instruction from the
king, and the local laws and usages of the colony, when they
have been adopted as the rules for its government. If any
jurisdiction is given, and not limited, all acts done in its exereise are legal and valid; if there is a discretion conferred, its
abuse is a matter between the governor and his government,
&c.; King v. Picton, late governor of Trinidad, 30 St. Tr.
869-871.
It is an universal principle, that, where power or jurisdiction is delegated to any public officer or tribunal over a subject
matter, and its exercise is confided to his or their discretion;
the acts so done are binding and valid as to the subject matter;
and individual rights will not be disturbed collaterally for any
thing done in the exercise of that discretion within the authority ond power conferred.- The only questions which can
arise between an individual claiming a right under the acts
lone, and the public, or any person denying its validity, are,
nower i. the olcer, and /raud irt the party. All other
questions are sattled by the decision made or the act done by
the tribunal or officer; whether executive, (1 Cr. 170-171)legislatve, (I Wh. 123; 2 Peters, 112; 4 Peters, 563)-judiVOL. VI.-4 R

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

cial, (I1Mass. 227; 11 S. & R. 429; adopted in 2 Peters, 167,
168), or, special, 20 J. R. 739, 740; 2 Dow. P. Cas. 521, &c.
unless an appeal is provided for, or other revision, by some appellate or supervisory tribunal, is prescribed by law.
The principles of these cases are too important not to be
referred to, and though time does not admit of their extraction and embodying in our opinion, we have no hesitation in
declaring that they meet with our entire concurrence, so far as
applicable to this case. But there are other cases which have
been decided by this court, which have, in our opinion, so
direct a bearing on the effect and validity of the grant in question, as to deserve a close examination; they will be considered
in their order.
In Polk's lessee against Wendell, various objections were
made to the validity of a grant from the state of North Carolina, as not having issued under the auihority of law. The
court laid down this. general principle: "But there are cases
in which a grant is absolutely void; as when the state has no
title to the thing granted, or where the officer had no authority
to issue the grant," (9 Cr. 99; repeated in the same case, 5 Wh.
303). In a succeeding part of their opinion, they observe, in
allusion to the law of the state-" This act limits the amount
for which an entry may be made, but the same person is not
in this act forbidden to make different entries, and entries
were transferable. No prohibition appears in the act which
should prevent the assignee of several entries, or the person who
has made several entries, from uniting them in one survey and
patent." (9Cr. 85). "The laws for the sale of public landsprovide many guards to secure the regularity of grants, to protect
the incipient rights of individuals, and also to protect the state
from imposition. Officers are appointed to superintend the
business, and rules are framed prescribing their duty. These
rules are in general directory, and where all the proceedings are
completed, by a patent issued by the authority of the state, a
compliance with these rules is pre-supposed. That every prerequisite has been performed, is an inference properly deducible, and which every man has a right to draw from the existence of the grant itself. It would therefore be extremely
unwarrantable for any court to avoid a grant for any irregularities in the conduct of those who are appointed by the govern-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others ]

ment to supervise the progressive course of a title from its
commencement to its confirmation in apatent;" 9 Cr. 99. In a
review of their opinion, it is laid down, "9As to what validity
shall be given to the grants emanating from North Carolina,
the decision places it upon the statutes of North Carolina; and
although an opinion is expressed, that North Carolina could
make no new grants after the cession, to congress, who could
entertain a doubt upon the-question? The right referred to
here, was to perfect incipient grants; but what restraint is
imjosed on her discretion, or what doubt suggested of her
good faith in executing that power? It will be perceived,
that as to irregularities committed by the officers of government, prior to the grant, the court does not express a doubt
but that the government and not the individual must bear the
consequences resulting from them." 5 Wh. 304. They refer
to the rule as to the patents laid down in the former case, 'and
add: "But in admitting that the grant shall support the presumption that every prerequisite existed, it necesssarily admits
that a warrant shall be evidence of the existence of an entry:
nor is it by any means conclusive to the contrary, that the entry
does not appear upon the abstracts of entries in Washington
county, recorded in the secretary's office; on the contrary, if the
warrants issued are signed by the entry taker, it is conclusive
that the locations were received by him; and if he omitted to
enter them, his.neglect ought not to prejudice the rights of him
5 Wh. 304, 305.
in whose favour the warrants were issued."
This is a very important principle applying to all imperfect
grants, concessions, warrants, and orders of survey. That the
production of either is legal evidence, from which the legal
presumption arises, that all preceding acts necessary to give it
legal validity, havehbeen done before it issued.
Another equally so was established in that.case: "There was
one point made in the argument of this case, which, from its
generad importance, deserves our serious attention, and which
may I[ave entered into the views of the circuit court in making
their decision. It was, whether admitting this grant to be
void, innocent purchasers, without notice, holding under it,
should be affected by its nullity. On general principles it is
incontestable, that a grantee can convey no more than lip possesses. Hence, those who come in under the holder of a void

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

grant, can acquire nothing; but it is cleat that the courts of
Tennessee have held otherwise. Yet the North Carolina act
of 1777, certainly declares grants attained by fraud, to be absolutely void: and the same result must follow, where the state
has relinquished its power to grant, or no law exists to support
the validity of the grant. But it seems that the courts of Tennessee have adopted this distinction, that grants in such cases shall
be deemed void only as against the state, and not then until
adjudged so by some process of law. If this be the settled law
of Tennessee, we are satisfied that it should rest on the authority of adjudication." 5 Wh. 309. This evidences the respect paid
by this court to local common law, which is but custom and
usage, although opposed to general principles which are incontestable. "1Hence this court has never hesitated to conform to
settled doctrines of the state on landed property, when they
are fixed and can be satisfactorily ascertained; nor would it
ever be led to deviate from them in any case that bore the
semblance of imphrtial justice." 5Wh. 302. Thesame principle
applies to those -f a territory, and to Florida, by the act of
1824. In Hoofnagle against Anderson, a patent had issued for
lands in the Virginia military district, in Ohio, on a continental warrant, issued by the register of the land office, without
authority by law or a certificate of the governor, for state services. The question on which the title depended was, whether
the illegality of the warrant could be inquired into after the
grant by a patent; on which the opinion of the court was given
in these words: "But this reference to the certificate of the
executive, alipears on the face of every warrant, and contains
no other information than is given by law; the. law requires
this certificate as the authority of the register. It is considered
as a formal part of the warrant These warrants are by law
transferable. They areproved by the signatureof the officer
and seal of office. The signature and seal are considered as
full proof of the rights expressed in the paper;-no inquiry is
ever made into the evidence received by the public officer. If
the purchaser of such a paper takes it subject to the risk of its
having-issued erroneously, there ought to be some termina ion
to this risk. We think it ought to terminate when the warrant
is completely merged in a patent, and the title consummated
without having encountered an adversary claim." 7 Wh.
217, 218.

JANUARY TERM 1m32.
[United States v. Arrclondo and others.]

A reference to the decisions of this court on titles in Florida,
will show how they have been heretofore considered: " It is
true, that the act of the 3d of March 1803, although making
no express provision in favour of British or Spanish grants,
unaccompanied with possession, does seem to proceed upon
the implication that they are valid, recognising the principle
that a change of policy produces no change in individual
property, yet it imputes to them only a modified validity;"
(referring to the necessity of their being recorded, and the
consequence of not doing it.) Harcourt against Gallard, 12
Wheat. 528. Had that claim been so recorded, and come
before the court under a law and circumstances similar to this,
there could have been no doubt of what its opinion would
then have been. In the next case, after reciting tlre first section of the act of 1803, the court say: "This section places
those persons who had obtained a warrant or order of survey,
before 27th October 1795, on equal ground with those whose
titles were completed." After reciting the residue of that act
and the preceding one of 1804, they express a very strong
opinion that a British or Spanish grant was cognizable before
the commissioners appointed under those laws, though held by
persons not residents of the country. That the commissioners
might have decided in favour of its validity, and that such decisior would have been conclusive. Henderson v. Poindexter,
12 Wheat. 536 to 543. The claim in that case was for fifteen
hundred acres; but the title was not recorded or the claim laid
before the commissioners, and it was not of course embraced
in the provisions of any act of congress authorizing any court
to decide on the title. We conclude this review of the acts of
congress and the decisions of this court, with repeating their
words in Rutherford v. Green: "Whatever the legislative
power may be, its acts ought never to be so construed as to
subvert the rights of property, unless its intention to do so
shall be expressed in such terms as to admit of no doubt, and
to show a clear design to effect the object. No general terms
intended for property, to which they may be fairly applicable
and not particularly applied by the legislature, no silent implied and constructive repeals ought ever to be understood
as to divest a vested right." 2 Wheat. 'J03. The course of
the argument, the situation of the country in which the land

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

is situated, and the numerous titles depending on the principles
which have been so fully discussed, has induced us to meet
them fully and explicitly-they will narrow the scope of argument in future cases.
The claimants in this case did not rest their title merely on
the grant. It appeared in evidence, by authentic documents,
that, in 1816, a controversy arose between the captain general
and the intendant of the Island of Cuba, as to the superintendency of the royal domain of the Floridas, which being referred
to the king, he, by a royal order of the 3d September 1817,
conferred it on the intendant, Ramirez, "commanding him
therein to facilitate the increase of the population of those provinces by all the means which his zeal and prudence could
dictate." This is the order recited in the grant, and the authority under which it was made; with the general superintendency of the domain of the provinces, the local authorities
acting under his direction and supervision, and acting under the
command contained in the order; we can have no hesitatioh
in saying that the grant in question was within the authority
thus conferred. This 'order was a supreme law, superseding
all others so far as it -extended; its object was to increase the
settlement and population of the whole province, which could
only be done by corresponding grants of land adequate in extent to their desired effect. The power to do it was ample,
and the means confided to the discretion of the officer, which
was not limited. We cannot say that in ;xecuting this grant,
he hag acted without authority. Our opinion, therefore, is
that both on the general principles of law and the acts of congress, the grant is perfect and valid, and even if a special
authority was requisite, that tt is conferred by the royal order
referred to. The bearing of the law of nations on such a title,
and property thus acquired, while the province was in the
possession and undisputed dominion of Spain, is manifest according to its principles, recognized and affirmed by this
court-12- Wheat. 535, before cited at large-no article of
the treaty professes to abrogate these rights, and all -the laws
of congress treat them as still subsisting, and they are now
referred to our final .decree by a special law. This relieves
the court from the difficulty in which they found themselves
in giving a construction to the treaty in the case of Foster and

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.)

Elam v. Nelson. A treaty is in its nature a contract beIt does not
tween "two nations, not a legislative act.
generally effect of itself the object to be accomplished, especially
so fir as it, object is infra territorial, but is carried into effect
by the sovereign powers of the parties to the inst ument;
when either of the parties engages to perform a particular act,
the treaty addresses itself to the political not the judicialdepartment, and the legislature must execute the contract
before it can become a rule for the court."-2 Peters, 314.
But the court are, in this case, authorised to consider and construe the treaty, not as a contract between t6vo nations, the
stipulations of which must be executed by an act of congress
before it can become a rule for our decision, not as the basis
and only foundation of the title of the claimants; but as a rule
to which we must bare a due regard, in deciding whether
the claimants have made out a title to the lands in controversy,
-a rule by which we are neither directed by the law or
bound to make our decree upon, any more than on the laws
of nations, of congress, or of Spain. The act of 1824 and 1828
authorise and require us to decide on the pending title on all
the evidence and laws before us. Congress have disclaimed
its decision as a political question for the legislative department to decide, and enjoined it on us one as purely judicial.
Taking, then, the treaty as a legislative act, an item of evidence, or a rule of decision, relied on by one or both parties
to this suit, we consider the second article as ceding to the
UTnited States only what of the territories belonged to Spainthat no lnd which had been severed from the royal domain
by antecedent grants, which were valid by the laws of Spain,
and created any right of property to the thing granted in
the grantees; passed to the United States-such lands were
not liable to subsequent appropriation by a subsequent grant.
Considering the treaty as a legislative act, and applying to it the
same rulcs, ", the proposition is believed to be perfectly correct, that the act of 17S3, of N. C. which opened the land
office, must be construed as offering for 'sale those lands only
which were then liable to appropriation, not those which had
before been individually appropriated,"-2- Wheat. 203. So
must the treaty be construed-and if a question arises what
lands were ceded, the answer is found in the second article-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

"vacant lands," not those which, in the language of this
court, had been individually appropriated, and were not the
subjects of a hostile and adversary grant. The renunciation
in the third article, by both parties, was only of their respective rights, claims and pretensions to the territory renounced:
neither government had any rights to renounce over the lands
to which a title had been conveyed to their citizens or subjects
respectively. The United States do not come into court
claiming this cession and renunciation as vesting them with
the whole territory in full dominion, in their sovereign capacity, with liberty to confirm previous appropriations of parts
of it or not, at their pleasure; but require us to finally decide
between them and the claimants as grantees from the same
grantor; which grant carries the title to the land. Thus deciding between the parties on these articles of the treaty, and in
conformity to the laws, rules, and principles before established,
we should be of opinion that the land embraced in the grant
was no longer a part of the royal domain at the date of the
treaty, but private property-land not vacant, but appropriated
by a prior valid deed. The eighth article was evidently
intended for the benefit of those who held grants and were
considered as proprietors of land in Florida-to give it a construction which would narrow and limit rights thus intended
to be secured would deprive them of the benefit of the fair
construction of the second and third articles of the treaty and
leave them in a worse situation than if the eighth had been
omitted altogether. To adopt one so severe and unjust would
require words and an evident intent clearly expressed-making
it imperative on our judgment to divest rights already vested.
The original treaty has been examined in the department of
state-it is executed as an original, and headed " original" in
both languages-it cannot have escaped our attention that it
relates to the territory ceded, the boundaries between those of
the two governments, the mutual renunciations, and the rights
of the inhabitants of the ceded territories. There is an obvious reason for its being in Spanish as well as in English-the
king had a direct interest, so far as affected his own dominions
adjoining the United States, and a laudable desire to protect
the inhabitants of the ceded provinces in all their rights and
property. His honour was concerned most deeply in not do-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Uited States v. Arredondo and others.]

ing an act which should deprive his subjects of what he had
granted to them; by making a cession of the territory to a powerful nation-not content with ceding and renouncing only what
belonged to himself, he was desirous of expressing his intention of preserving his faith, by an article which should show
it to be not to leave the confirmation of grants by lawful authority at the pleasure of the United States. Before the execution of the treaty, there was inserted a stipulation in Spanish
by which the ceded territory should pass into the hands of
the United States with the declared intention on the part of
the king of Spain, that the grants referred to operated "in
presenti" as an exception and reservation of land granted in
his name and by his authority, using words which expressed
his intention, in his own language, that the grants were ratified and confirmed by both governments in the very act of
cession, subject to no future contingency. This furnishes a
powerful and obvious reason for inserting this article in Spanish,
so that the intention would be clearly understood by words
denoting it in a manner not to be mistaken whenever any doubt
should arise; and whenever the treaty should be produced as
evidence of the cession, or for any other purpose, there sho0ld
always appear in the native language of his then or former
subjects, full evidence of his declared intention to protect their
rights acquired by his gtants, pledging his honour and faith for
their security.
His minister was not willing to trust so important a matter
to a treaty only in the English language. The present situation of the holders of the grants, the state of the country, the
opinion of this court in Foster v. Nelson, and the argument in
this cause, show the wisdom and justice which prompted him
to express the intention of the king in his own language and
that of his subjects. Similar or equally good reasons may
have induced the ministers of this government to have the
treaty drawn in its language, and thus considering the treaty
in both languages, and each as is declared at its head, "1original," the one version neither controls nor is to be preferred to
the other: each expresses the meaning of the contracting parties,
respectiyely, in their own language, as in the opinion of each, expressing and declaring the intention of both. If they are mistaken, and the words used do not and.are not understood afterVOL. VI.-4 S

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Auredondo and others.]

wards by the parties to convey the same meaning in both
languages; then, both being originals and of equal authority,
we must resort to some other mode than the inspection of the
treaty to give it a proper construction, under the special acts
of congress, which require us to decide on the validity of the
grants referred to in the eighth article, by the principles and
rules of justice and equity, the law of nations: the stipulations
of the treaty, the acts of congress, and the laws of Spain, and
on such testimony as may be admissible by the rules of evidence and principles of law. Applying, then, these tests to
the eighth article, and to ascertain its legal meaning wben the
contracting parties understand it differently, we consider it as
in its effect and legal operation, an exception and reservation
of the lands so granted, from the territory ceded to the United

States. If the title was confirmed presently, the king had
within the bounds of the grant no right or title to convey, and
the United States could receive none. If no future act of
theirs was necessary to their ratification and confirmation, the
legal estate, much less the beneficial interest, never passed to
them. A treaty of cession is a deed of the ceded territory,
the sovereign is the grantor, the act is his, so far as it relates
to the cession, the treaty is his act and deed, and all courts
must so consider it, and deeds are construed in equity by the
rules of law.
Agovernment is never presumed to grant thesame land twice,
7 J.R. 8. Thus a grant, even by act of parliament, which
conveys a title good against the king, takes away no right of
property from any other; though it contains no saving clause,
it passes no other right than that of the public, although the
grant is general of the land; 8 Co. 274, b.; I Vent. 176; 2 J.
R. 263. If land is granted by a state, its legislative power
is incompetent to annul the grant and grant the land to another; such law is void, Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cr. 87, &e. A
state cannot impose a tax on land, granted with an exemption
from taxation,- New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cr. 164; nor take
away a corporate franchise, Dartmouth College v. Woodward,

4 Wheat. 518. Public grants convey nothing by implication;
they are construed strictly in favour of the king; Dy. 362, a;
Cro. Car. 169. Though such construction must be reasonable,
such as will make the true intention of the king as expressed

JANUARY TERM

1832.

[United States v. Anedondo and others.]

in his charter take effect, is for the king's honour, and stands
with the rules of law; 4 Com. Dig. 428, 554; G. 1-; 10 Co.
65.
Grants of the strongest kind, "ex speciali gratia,
ceria scientia, et 2nero motu," do not extend beyond the
meaning and intent expressed in them, nor, by any strained
construction, make any thing pass against the apt and proper,
the common and usual signification and intendment of the
words of the grant, and passes nothing but what the king
owned;. 10 Co. 112, b.; 4 Co. 35; Dy. 350, 1, pl. 21. If it
grant a thing in the occupation of B. it only passes what B.
occupied; this in the case of a common person, a fortiori in
the queen's case, 4 Co. 35 b.; Hob. 171; Hard. 2-5. Though
the grant and reference is general, yet it ought to be applied
to a certain particular, as in that case to the charter to Queen
Caroline-id cerium est quod cerium reddipolest, 9 Co. 30,
a. 46 a. 47, b. S. P. When the king's grant refers in general
terms to a certainty, it contains as express mention of it as if
the certainty had been expressed in the same charter; 10 Co.
64 a. A grant by the king does not pass any thing not described or referred to, unless the grant is as fully and entirely
as they came to the king, and that ex cerla scientia, &e. Dy.
350, b.; 10 Co. 65, a.; 2 Mod. 2; 4 Com. Dig. 546, 548.
Where the thing granted is described, nothing else passes, as
"those lands;" Hard. 225. The grantee is restrained to the
place, and shall have no lands out of it by the generality of
the grant referring to it; as of land in A. in the tenure of B,
the grant is void if it he not both in the place and tenure referred to. The pronoun " ila" refers to both necessarily, it
is not satisfied till the sentence is ended, and governs it till the
full stop. 2 Co. 33; S. P. 7 Mass. 8, 9; 15 J. R. 447; 6 Cr.
237; 7 Cr. 47, 48. The application of this last rule to the
words 4'de ilas," in the eighth article, will settle the question
whether its legal reference is to lands alone, or to "grants" of
land. The general words of a king's grant shall never be so
construed as to deprive him of a greater amount of revenue
than he intended to grant, or to be deemed to be to his or the
prejudice of the commonwealth; I Co. 112, 13 b. "Judges
will invent reasons and means to make acts according to the
just intent of the parties, and tb avoid wrong and injury which.
by rigid rules might be wrought out of the act." Hob. 277.

SUPREME COURT.
[United State. v. Arredondo and others ]

The words of a grant are always construed according to the
intention of the parties, as manifested in the grant by its terms
or by the reasonable and necessary implication, to be deduced
from the situat;on of the parties and of the thing granted, its
nature and use; 6 Mass. 334, 5; S. & R. 110; 1 Taunton, 495,
500, 502; 7 Mass. 6; 1 B. & P. 375; 2 J. R. 321, 2; 6 J. R.
5, 10; i1 J.R. 498,9; 3 E. 15; Cro. Car.17,18, 57, 58, 16S,169;
Plo. 170, b. 7; E. 621; Cowper, 360, 363; 4 Yeates, 153.
These are the fixed rules governing private grants, which are
construed strongly against the grantor and liberally for the
grantee. Yet he shall never take by general words or by
construction what the grantor had before granted to another.
The controlling effect which the situation of the grantor and
the property alleged to be conveyed as evidence of the intrention of the grantor, is in law such, that in the case of Moore .
Magrath, in 1774, Lord Mansfield declared, "I am very clear
it might be plainer with the deed, but without seeing the deed
it is plain enough." The words of the deed were sweeping
ones: " Together with all his, the said Michael Moore's lands,
tenements and hereditamentsin Ireland." Yetit did notpass
his paternal estate; the court was unanimous, Cowper, 9, 11; the
authority of this case is unquestionable. In Shirras v. Craig,
this court decided, that when there was a piece of property
answering to the description in the deed, other property included in the deed, but not intended to be conveyed, did not
pass, 7 Cr. 47, 48. It is useless to pursue the inquiry, whether
by the common law the grant of a king can be adjudged to
pass what he had conveyed to another, and whose title he intended to ratify and confirm by the very act of a grant to
another, by excepting it from the generality or the thing
granted, and reserving it from the operation of the new grant
for the use of a prior grantee. But it is not deemed useless to
show the doctrine of this court as to exceptions and reservations in public and private grants. " The insertion of this reservation in this act (a law of North Carolina), leads almost necessarily to the opinion that the lands granted to Martin and
Wilson, were a part of those to which the act related, and the
words of the section show that their title was acquired by this
act: "By no course of just reasoning can it be inferred, from
these permissions to make appropriations within bounds, not

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United Stes v. Arredondo and others.]

open to entry generally, that a vested right to lands not lying,
within the limits to which the act relates is annulled," Rutherford v. Green, 2 Wheat. 205. In order, therefore, to ascertain what is granted, we must first ascertain what is included in the exception; for whatever is included in the exception, is excludedfrom the gran, according to.the maxim
laid down in Co. Lit. 47 a. (4 Com. Dig. 289, Fait. E. 6.)
Si quis rem dat, et partem retimet, ilia pars quam re/inet
semper cum eo est et semperfuit; Greenleaf v. Birth, January
1832, opinion of this court by Story, Justice, the other judges
concurring unanimously on this point.
It became, then, all important to ascertain what was granted
by what was excepted. The king of Spain was the grantor,
the treaty was his deed, the exception was made by him, and
its nature and effect depended on his intention, expressed by
his words, in reference to the thing granted and the thing reserved and excepted in and by the 'grant. The Spanish version
was in his words and expressed his intention, and though the
American version showed the intention of this government.to
be different, we cannot adopt it as the rule by which to decide
what was granted, what excepted, and what reserved; the
rules of law are too clear to be mistaken and too imperative to
be disregarded by this court. We must be governed by the
clearly expressed and manifest intention of the grantor, and
not the grantee in private a fortiori in public grants. That'
we might not be mistaken in the intention or in the true m eaning of Spanish words, two dictionaries were consulted, one of
them printed in Madrid, and two translations were made of
the eighth article, each by competent judges of Spanish, and
both agreeing with each other, and the translation of each
agre-'ing with the definition of the dictionaries. c'Quedan"
in Spanish, correctly translated, means "shall remain"-the
verb 69quedan '" is in French "reste," Latin, 4manere" "cremanere," and English, "remain," in the present tense. In
the English original, the words are "shall be"-words in the
future. The difference is all important as to all Spanish grants,
if the words of the treaty were that all the grants of land "shall
remain confirmed," then the United States by accepting the
cession, could assert no claim to these land/ thus expressly
excepted. The proprietors could bring suits to recover them
without any action of congress, and any question arising would

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

be purely a judicial one. "Shall be ratified," makes it necessary that there should be a law ratifying them or authorizing
a suit to be brought, otherwise the question would be a political one, not cognizable by this court, as was decided in Foster
and Elam v. Nelson.
But aside from this consideration, we find the words used
in the Spanish sense as to the grants made after the 24th of
January 1818, which are, by the same article in English,
" hereby declaredand agreedto be null and void." The ratification is in Spanish and English. The Spanish words in the
Spanish version are " quedado" and "quedan" in reference to
the annulled grants; the English are "have remained," "do
remain." The principles of justice and the rules of both law
and equity are too obvious not to require that in deciding on
the effect and legal operation of this article of the treaty by
the declared and manifested intention of the king, the meaning
of Spanish words sh)uld be the same in confirming as in annulling grants.a regard to the honour and justice of a great
republic, alike forbid the imputation of a desire that its legislation should be so construed and its law so administered, that
the same word should refer to the future as to confirming and
to the present in annulling grants in the same article of the
same treaty.
For these reasons and in this conviction, we consider that
the grants were confirmed and annulled respectively-simultaneously with the ratification and confirmation of the treaty,
and that when the territory was ceded, the United States had
no right in any of the lands embraced in the confirmed grants.
As this point was urged at length by counsel on both sides,
it was due to them that the court should consider it fully and
express their opinion upon it clearly; argued as this case has
been, upon grounds deemed by both Aides vital to its meritswe could not exclude them upon our consideration. But
there are other grounds, which, though not adverted to by
counsel, would, in our view, have led to the same result. It
is wholly immaterial to the decision of this case, whether the
eighth article of the treaty is construed to be an actual present
confirmation and ratification of the grants by both governments,
or a stipulation of itfor the future; for the laws of 1824 and
18b8, require us to decide on the validity of the title of the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

claimants under those grants according to the stipulation of
any treaty. Our decree is final, and, if in favour of the claimants, is conclusive against the title of the United States. Under these laws the effect of the stipulation to ratify and confirm
the grants is a judicial question, referred to us as such by congress; in deciding upon it by the rules prescribed, we assume
no authority, we but obey the laws, as in duty bound, by
decreeing according to our most deliberate and settled judgment. Should we be called on to decide on the validity of a
title acquired by any Spanish grant not embraced by these
laws, we should feel bound to follow the course pursued in Foster against Nelson, in relation to the stipulation in the eighth
article of the Florida treaty, "that the legislature must execute
the contract before it can become a rule for this court,"' 2 Peters,
314. We are thus explicit to avoid possible misapprehension.
We are also of opinion that the legal construction of the
eighth article in English, would 4ead to the same conclusion
at vhich we have arrived, Lccording to the view heretofore
taken of the Spaoish. The law deems every man to be in the
legal soisin and possession of land to which he has a perfect
and complete title; this seisin and possession is co-extensive
with his right and continues till he is ousted thereof by an
actual adverse possession. This is a settled principle of the
common law, recognized and adopted by this court in Green
v. Litter, 8 Cranch, 229, 230; Barr v. Gratz, 4 Wheat. 213,
233; Propagation Society v. Pawlett, 4 Peters, 480, 504, 506;

Clarke v. Courtney, 5 Peters, 354, 355. And is not now to
be questioned.
This gives to the words "in possession of the lands" their
well ,ettled and fixed meaning; possession does not imply
occupation or residence; had it been so intended, we must
presume they would have been used. By adopting words of a
known legal import, the grantors must be presumed to have
used them in that sense, and to have so intended them; to
depart from this rule would be to overturn established principleq.
To adopt the literal English version and reject its meaning
as settled at common law and by this court would make this
article confine the confirmation of grants of land to cases of
actual occupation and residence. This would be to give to the

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

treaty a construction more limited than the acts of congress
have done to place Spanish grants on a worse footing under
the Florida, than they were under the Louisiana treaty, or the
compact with Georgia, and to exclude from our consideration
many of the same classes of cases on which special tribunals
in their proceedings under the stipulations of the treaty had
decided and confirmed similar grants. We are satisfied that
by adopting and acting on this version, so taken literally, we
should violate the intention and spirit of the laws which give
us jurisdiction, and are the guides to its exercise; we cannot
decide according to the principles of justice in any other way
than by considering the words according to their legal acceptation too often given by this court not to be respected by it.
By grants of land we do not mean the mere grant itself, but
the right, title, legal possession and estate, property and own.
ership; legally resulting upon a grant of land to the owner.
There is one other expression in the second clause of the
eighth article which we deem it our duty to notice. In the
English version it is "but the owners in possession of such
land," &c.; there is no sentence in the Spanish version which
can correspond with this, the word "proprietarios" means
The
owners, but not "owners in possession of such land."
intention of the Spanish grantor is too apparent to be mistaken by any tribunal authorized to decide judicially on the
true construction of a contract according to the meaning and
intention of the contracting parties. This furnishes another
powerful reason in favour of the constiuction we have given to
the English phrase, by which their legal intendment and effect
are the same.
This part of the eighth article was for the benefit of those
persons who were purchasers under the faith of a public grant,
evidently intended to be protected and secured in their rights by
the stipulation of a treaty which ought to be construed liberally
by a tribunal authorized and required to decide on the validity
of these grants by the principles of justice and according to the
rules of equity having a due regard to this article of the treaty.
We cannot better regard it than by carrying into effect these
piinciples and rules, by such an exposition of it as we are convinced meets the intention of the parties and effectuates the
object intended to be accomplished.

JANUARY TERM 18s2.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

We now consider the conditions on which the grants were
made. According to the rules and the law by which w, are
directed to decide this case, there can be no doubt that they
are subsequent, the grant is in full property in fce, an interest vested on its execution which could only be divest.d by
the breach or non-performance of the conditions, which were,
that the grantees should establish on the lands two hundred
Spanish families together with the requisites pointed out, and
which shall be pointed out by the superindendency; and begin
the establishment within three years from the date of the
grant. No time was fixed for the completion of the establishment, and no new requisites or conditions appear to lave heen
imposed. From the evidence returned with the reord we
are abundantly satisfied that the establishment was commenced
within the time required, (which appears to have been extended for one year beyond that limited by the grant),,and in a
manner which, considering the situation of that country as appears by the evidence, we must consider as a performance
with that part of the condition. Great allowance must be
made not ',nly from the distracted state and prevalent confusion in the province at the time of the grant, but until the
time of its occupation by the United States. Though a court
of law must decide according to the legal construction of the
condition and call on the party for a strict performance, yet a
court of equity-acting on more liberal principles will soften
the rigour of law, and though the party cannot show a hkgal
compliance with the condition, if he can do it -y pres they
will protect and save him from a forfeiture; 4 DI11. 20 ;. 2
Fonb. 217, 218, 220; 1 Vern. 224, 225; 2 Vern. 267, ard
note.
The condition of settling two hundred families on the taad
has not been complied with in fact; the question is, ha. it
been complied with in law, or has such matter been preserAed
to the court as dispenses with the performance and divests tie
grant of that condition.
It is an acknowledged rule of law that if a grart is made on
a condition subsequent, and its performance becomes impossible by the act of the grantor, the grant becomes single. We
are not prepared to say that the condition of settling two hundred Spanish families in an American territory ha%been, or is
VOL. VI.-4 T

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

possible; the condition was not unreasonable or unjust at the
time it was imposed, its performance would probably have
been deemed a very fair and adequate consideration for the
But to
grant, had Florida remained a Spanish province.
exact its performance after its cession to the United States
would be demanding the "summurn jus" indeed, and enforcing a forfeiture on principles which if not forbidden by
the common law, would be utterly inconsistent with its spirit.
If the case required it, we might feel ourselves at all events,
justified, if not'compelled to declare, that the performance of
this condition had become impossible by the act of the
grantors; the transfer of the territory, the change of government, manners, habits, customs, laws, religion, and all the
social and political relations of society and of life. The
United States have not submitted this case to her highest
court of equity on such grounds as these, we are not either
authorised or required by the law which has devolved upon us
the final consideration of this case to be guided by such rules
or governed by such principles in deciding on the validity of
the claimants' title. Though we should even doubt, if sitting
as a eurt of common law and bound to adjudicate this claim.
by its rigid rules, the case has not been so submitted. The
proceeding is in equit.y according to its established rules our
decree must be in conformity with the principles of justice,
which would in such a case as this not only forbid a decree
of forfeiture but impel us to give a final decree in favour of
the title conferred by the grant.
It has bcen objected to the validity of the grant that it exceeds the quantity authorized by the laws of the province. The
view we have taken of the royal order dated in September
1817, preceding the grant, and by thes authority of which it
purports to have been made, renders it unnecessary to say
more in relation to this objection than that, the disposition of
the royal domain in Florida was within the jurisdiction of
the intendant Ramirez. That he had power to make the grant,
the terms and extent of which were within his discretion, of
the proper exexcise of which this court has neither the power
or right to judge. We will, however, observe that we are
well satisfied that the local authority was competent to make
grants of lands of a greater quantity than that to which the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

counsel of the United states have contended that they were
limited; the United Status have never insisted on limiting
grants to such a pitfance. Their uniform legislation and the
proceedings of all the tribunals wiro have acted under their
authority during all the time which has elapsed since their
acquisition of any territory within which Spanish grants have
been issued show that they have never been disposed to confine them so narrowly, but the contrary. This case does not
require us to define their extent.
The question of fraud has been pressed in the argument,
but we perceive nothing in the evidehee which shows its existence so as to bring it home to the claimants or that it exists
at all according to the definition and rules heretofore settled.
It is objected that the lands in question are within the Indian bnundary, and not subject to be granted._ Of the fact of
such location there seems to be no doubt, as the centre of the
grant is the Indian town of Alachua. The title of the Indians
to these lands is not a matter before us; the grant is made subject to their rights if they return to resume tbem, and their
abandonment has been ascertained by a proceeding which the
intendant in the grant calls a sentence pronounced by him in
his official character, on the report of the attorney and surveyor general. This seems to be a mode of proceeding known
to the Spanish law in force in the province, in the nature of
an inquest of office, as a judicial act, which vitally affecting
the royal domain, come within its general superintendency,
under the royal order of September. It was conducted, so
fur as we can perceive, by the proper officers; the law officer
of the crown to report on the laws affecting the subject, and
the surveyor general as to the fact; so that on their joint report, the superior officer could decree officially, whether,
from the nature of the Indian right of occupancy, it had in
law and by the actual condition of the land, in fact, reverted
to and become re-annexed to the royal domain by the abandonment of the occupancy. The intendant pronounced his
sentence on the report of these officer4 and declared the
granted lands to be a part of the royal domain, and open to a
grant, reserving the Indian right of occupancy whenever it
should be resumed. The fact of abandonment was the important one to be ascertained, if voluntary, the dominion of

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

the crown over it was unimpaired in its plenitude; if by force
the Indians had the right whenever they had the power or
inclination to return.
This is a matter which we feel bound to consider a judicial
one, and that we cannot look behind the final sentence of an
authorised tribunal to examine into the evidence on which it
was founded; but must take it as a "res adjudicata" by a foreign tribunal, judicially known and td be respected as such.
Similar proceedings are directed by the various acts of congress; the land commissioners, or officers of the land offices,
as the case may be, confirm or reject claims, and the land embraced in the rejected claims, reverts to the public fund. So
it is provided by the seventh section of the act of 1824, as to
claims barred by not being duly presented or pr,,ecuted, or
which shall be decreed against finally by thib court. There
is another answer to this objection, which deserves notice:
grants of land within the Indian boundary, are not excepted
in the laws referring them to judidial decision; conp e s made
what exceptions they thought proper; as the law has j),it done
it, we do not feel authorised to make an exception of this.
It is lastly objected, that the extension of time by the intendant in December 1820, was without authority, being subsequent to the ratification of the treaty by the king of Spain.
But the ratification by the United States was in February following, and the treaty did not take effect till its ratification by
both parties operated like the delivery of a deed to make it
the binding act of both. That it may and does relate to its
date as between the two governments, so far as respects the
rights of either under it, may be undoubted; but as respects
individual rights, in any way affected by it, a very different
rule ought to prevail. To exact the performance of the condition of settlement of two hundred Spanish families, or any
great progress in its commencement, after the date of the treaty
and during the confused and uncertain state of things preceding its ratification; would be both unreasonable and unjust; and
if the question was new in this court, we should have no hesitatioa in saying, that as to the grants of land subject to the
condition of settlements, the ratification of the treaty must be
taken at its date. But the question is not a new one. In.1702
the. state of Pennsylvania passed a law for the sale of her va-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
TUnited States v. Arredondo and others.)

cant lands; the warrants issued under it contained a condition
of improvement and settlement, within two years from their
date, unless prevented by force of arms of the enemies of the
United States, from making and continuing such settlement.
The treaty of Greenville was made in August 1794, but not
ratified till December 1795. The uniform decisions of the
supreme court of Pennsylvania, and the solemn decision of
this court in Huidekoper's Lessee against Douglass, have settied the date of the treaty to be its ratification, so far as it bears
on or in any way affects the rights of parties under the land
laws of Pennsylvania. The obligation to aettle did not begin
till the expiration of two years thereafter, and if commenced
in the course of the following spring, the condition has been
considered as complied with. 3 Cranch, 1, 65; 4.Dall. 199.
Being therefore of opinion that the title of the claimant is
valid, according to the stipulations of the treaty of 1819, the
laws of nations, of the United States, and of Spain, the judgment of the court below is affirmed. (a)
M r Justice THoMrpsoN, dissenting.
Not concurring in the conclusion to which the court has
come in this case, and considering the magnitude of the property involved, not only in this case but in the application of
the principles which govern the decision, to other cases, and
that the construction now given to the treaty is confessedly at
variance with that which has been heretofore adopted, I shall
briefly assign my reasons for dissenting from the opinion of
the court. It is not my purpose to enter into an examination
of all the questions which have been discussed at the bar. The
view which I have taken of the case, does not make it necessary for me to do so.
The grant under which the petitioners in the court below
set up their claim, bears date on the 22d of December 1817,
and is for a tract of land in East Florida, a little short, of three
hundred thousand acres. It was made by Don Alexander
Ramirez, intendant of- the island of Cuba, and superintendent of -the two Floridas. It recites that the memorial
for the same was presented to the intendancy on the 15th
of November., then last past, praying a gratuitous concess(a) An impression of this opinion was subwIttea to, and corrected by, Mr Justice Baldwin by the printer, before it was put to press.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

ion Of the land, and offering to make an establishment in
the territory, known by the name of Alachua, composed of
two hundred families. The grant is thereupon gratuitously
made, as therein expressed, in full property; and with the precise obligation, to establish there two hundred families, which
must be Spanish, the establishment beginning within the term
of three years, at most; without which the grant shall be considered null and void.
The validity of this claim, depends on the construction of
the eighth article of the treaty between the United States and
the king of Spain, bearing date the 22d of February 1819. It
is contended on the part of the appellees, that under the true
construction of this treaty the only questions open for inquiry
are, 1st, whether the grant is genuine, and, 2dly, whether
made by lawful authority. That upon the' establishment of
these points, the treaty, ipso facto, confirms the grant, and
closes the door to all- further inquiry-the date of the grant
being antecedent to that of the treaty. It is admitted that this
is a different interpretation of the treaty, from that which has
heretofore prevailed in our own government; and the change
of construction ig rested upon an interpretation of the Spanish
language, as used in the treaty, rejecting the English side of
that instrument. The treaty when signed was in both languages; and each must be considered as theoriginal language,and
neither as a translation. It cannot be said that the English is
an erroneous translation of the Spanish, any more than that the
Spnish is an erroneous translation.of the English. The English
siddtf the eighth article of the treaty reads thus: "all the grants
of land made before the 24th of January 1818, by his catholic
majesty; or by his lawful authorities, in the said territories
ceded by his majesty to the United States, shall be ratified
and confirmed to the persons in possession of the lands, to
the same extent, that the same grants would be valid if the
territories had remained under the dominion of his catholic
majesty. But the owners in ppssession of such lands, who by
reason or' the ieent circumstances of the Spanish nation, and
the revolutions in Europe, have been prevented from fulfilling
all the conditions of their grants, shall complete them within
the terms limited in the same, respectively, from the date of the
treaty; in default of ivhich the said grants shall be null and
void. All grants made since the 24th of January 1818, when

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United Sftes v. Arredondo and others.]

the first proposal on the part of his catholi6 majesty for th
cession of the Floridas was made, are hereby declared to be
null and void."
The material parts in which the English and Spanish are
said not to agree are, 1st, where the English declares that the
grants "shall be ratified and confirmed," the Spanish is "shall
remain ratified and confirmed;" and, 2dly, where the English
is, "shall be ratified and confirmed to the persons in possess on
of the land," the Spanish construction is, "to the persons
in possession of the grants;" and, 3dly in that part of the article which extends the time for fulfilling thp conditions, which
according to the English, is, to the owners in possession of the
"land," the Spanish construction is, "the owners in possession of the grants." It will readily be perceived that the
different readings lead to very different results, and which
materially affect the grant in question. If titles are confirmed
only to persons in possessionof the land at the date of the treaty,
the grant in question does not come within the saving; for
Lt re is no pretence that Arredondo, or any person claiming
under him, was at the date of the treaty in possession of the
land, or had done any thing towards fulfilling the conditions
upon which the grant was made to depend, and without which
it is declared to be null and void. If the construction of the
Spanish side of the treaty, as now contended, is to be adopted,
and all grants before the 24th of January 1818, are confirmed
by the treaty, propriovigore,-the declaration that they shall
be confirmed to the same extent that the same grants would be
valid, if the territories had remained under the dominion of
his catholic majesty, are entirely nugatory, and must be reJected. for we have no right to enter into the inquiry how far
they would be valid under the Spanish government. Such
was most manifestly not the intention of the contracting parties; but that the United States should be substituted in the
place of Spain, and should carry into execution in good faith
the contracts made under the Spanish government for the disposition of the lands, and which the Spanish government was
bound ex debitojstilix to carry into execution. The treaty
must be considered as made in reference to an established system relative to the disposition of the land in the territories
ceded-and that all grants would be open to examination,

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

whether valid or not, according to the rules and regulations
established by such system. It seems to be admitted, that if
the English side of the treaty is to govern, the grant in question would not come within the saving of 'the eighth article,
unless the date of the treaty is to be considered as of the time
it was finally ratified on the 19th of February 1S21. Before
which time it is contended, the establishment was commenced
according to the conditions of the grant. This question will
be noticed hereafter.
I do not profess to understand the Spanish language, and shall
therefore not underfake to say whether the criticisms are well
founded or not. But it must strike any one as a little extraordinary, not only that the negotiators of the treaty should
have sanctioned such a material discrepancy; but that congress should have been legislatihg for ten years past upon the
English side of the treaty, different boards of commissioners
sitting and trying the titles under such constructions, and that
this court should have fallen into the same error, and the mistake not discovered till now.
But admitting this discrepancy, as now contended for, exists
between the English and Spanish side of the treaty, the quezstion arises, which must we adopt? I know of no rule that requires a court of justice to rejectthe English, and adopt the
Spanish. If congress in their liberality should think proper
to do this, the power could not be disputed, and so far as it extended to the protection of actual bona fide settlers upon the
land,the power, in my judgment, would be wisely and discreetly
exercised. But it does not seem to me that a court of justice
can be called upon, as a matter of courtesy, to yield this to a
foreign power, in the construction of a treaty; and no rules of
law applicable to the construction of contracts, will, in my
judgment, justify it. It certainly will not be pretended that
the royal rule of construction applies to this case. That where
a grant is made by the king, it is to be taken most beneficially
for the king and against the grantee. It is, I think, not claiming too much to consider it a contract between equals, and the
rule would be more applicable which requires in such case, that
the grant should be construed most strongly against the grantor.
It is certainly true, as a general rule, that all written instruments are to be construed by themselves, without resorting

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

to evidence dehorsthe instrument, to ascertain the intention of
the parties, except whaere there is a latent ambiguity, which is
not the case here. But that principle cannot 'with propriety
be applied to the present case; the difficulty does not arise from
any obscurity either in the English or in the Spanish side of
the treaty, if considered separately; but from a discrepancy,
when .compared together; and, in my judgment, presents a
proper case for an inquiry into the intention and.u'nderstanding
of the parties who negotiated the treaties.
"Every treaty," says Vattel, "must be interpreted as the parties understood it when the act was proposed and accepted."
The lawful interpretation of the contract ought to tend only to
the discovery of the thoughts of the author or authors of the
contract; as soon as we meet with any obscurity, we should seek
for what was probably in the thoughts of those who drew it up,
and interpret it accordingly. This is the general rule of all
interpretation. That'all miserable subtleties and quibbles about
words are overthrown by this unerring rule. (Vattel, see 262,
p. 22S, 930.)
Such understanding, in the present case, is to be collected
from written evidence which will speak for itself, and not from
parole declarations, which might be misunderstood or misrecollected; and if we resort to such written evidence, no doubt, it appears to me, can remain on the construction of the treaty, that
it was not the understanding, either of Ir Adams or Don Onis,
that all grants of land made before the 24th of January 1818,
by his catholic majesty or his lawful authorities, should be
confirmed by the mere force and operation of the treaty.
It is said the treaty does not purport to transfer private property; that all such property is excepted under the second
article. This proposition cannot be true in the broad extent
to which ;t has been laid down. It may not transfer private
property, but it annuls private property, if every grant, of
whatever description, is to be considered private property.
For upon this construction, there would be a direct repugnancy
between the second and the eighth articles; the latter declares
that all grants made since the 24th of January 181IS, shall be
null and void. But the king of Spain did not consider a mere
gratuitous grint, upon conditions which had in no manner
whatever been fulfilled, as private property. This Witist have
VOL. VI.-4 U

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and othem,]

been the, ground upon which he annulled the grants to Alagon,
Punon Rostro, and Vargas. So it was understood by Don
Onis, as will be shown hereafter by his correspondence. And
the same.power was assumed over like grants in other cases,
where no private right became vested by taking possession, or
doing some act towards fulfilling the condition of the grants;
and where that has been done, the right is secured to the person in possession, according to the provisions of the eighth
article. But let us look at the correspondence between Mr
Adams and Don Onis which lead to this eighth article.
The material point of difference between the negotiators in
framing this article wis, whether it should absolutely confirm
all grants made prior to the 24th of January 1818, or only sub
modo, so as to enure to the benefit of actual bona fide settlers
on the land at the time the treaty wa made; and the article resulted in the form in which it now stands.
The article states that the proposition to cede the territory
originated on the part of Spain on the 24th of January 1818;
or that is assumed as the date, though doubtless there must
have been some previous communications on the subject, either
here or by our minister in Spain; for Mr Erving, by his
letter of the 10th of February 1818, wrote to MIr Adams,
that the king of Spain had lately made large grants of land in
East Florida to several of his favourites; and that he had been
credibly informed, that by a sweeping grant to the duke of
Alagon, he had within a few days past given away the remainder. 1st vol. State Papers, 13.
Our government was therefore apprised of what was probably going on with respect to grants in Florida, and must be
presumed to have intended to guard against them. On the 24th
of October 1818, Don Onis sent to Mr Adarfps a proposition
to cede the Floridas, with the following clause: "The donatipns or sales of lands made by the government of his majesty,
or by legal authorities, until this time, are nevertheless to be
recognized as valid." On the 31st of October Mr Adams answered, declining his proposal, and requiring all the grants
lately alleged to have been made by Spain should be cancelled,
a'ld proposed to carry back the time to all grants made after
the year 1302. This Don Onis declined, but offered to annul
all grants made after the 24th January 1818; saying, that the

JANUAIY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

grants had been made with a view to promote population, cultivation and industry, and not with that of alienating them;
and that they should be declared null and void in consideration
of the grantees not having complied with the essential conditions of the cession. 1st vol. State Papers, 25, 26.
Again, on the 9th February 1819, Don Onis, in hi project
of a treaty sent to Mr Adams, reiterates the same provision,
that all grants shall he confirmed and acknowledged as valid
except those which had been issued after the 24th of January
1818,.which should be null in consideration that the grantees
had not complied with the conditions of the cessions. 1 S. P. 87.
In all this correspondence we find Don Onis persisting in
his claim, that all grants prior to the 24th of January 1818,
should be absolutely confirmed; and assigning as the reason
why those issued subsequent to that date should be annulled,
because the grantees had not complied with the conditions;
and we find Mr Adams continually rejecting the proposition
to consider the grants before that period absolutely confirmed:
and yet it is now insisted that all such are confirmed by the
treaty. The subsequent negotiation shows that the article, as
it now stands, was put into that shape expressly for the purpose of guarding against such construction, and with the understanding, both of Don Onis and Mr Neuville, who acted in his
behalf during a part of the negotiation, that the grants'of lanud
dated before as well as after the 24th of January 1818, were
annulled, except those upon which settlements had been commenced, the completion of which had been prevented by the
circumstances 9f Spain and the recent revolutions in Europe.
It is unnecessary for me to state more particularly this correspondence; the result, as above stated, will be found fully supported by a reference to the correspondence in the first volume
of State Papers, pp. 13, 25, 26, 34, 46, 68, 74, 75. There
can be no doubt that such was the understanding of Don 0 is
and Mr De Neuville; and Mr Adams, in a letter to our minister in Spain, whilst the treaty was pending before the king
for ratification, states that the reasons why the grants to the
duke of Alagon and others were not excluded by name, were.
1, conformably to the desire of Mr Onis to save the honour
of the king; and, 2, because from the despatches of Mr Erving
it was supposed there were other grants of the same kind, and

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

made urfder similar circumstances. To have named them
might have left room for a presumptive inference in favour of
others: the determination was to exclude them all.
That the grant to Arredondo was made under similar circumstances, and liable to the Same objections with those to
Alagon, Punon Rostra and Vargas, is most manifest. Applications for them all were made within a few months of each
other, in the latter part of the year 1817 and beginning of
1818, and no settlements made on either at the date of the
treaty: and to consider the treaty as piiecluding all inquiry
into the validity of this grant, appears to me directly in the
face of the very words of the treaty, and most manifestly
against the clear understanding of those by whom it was made:
and such is the construction given to this article by this court
in the case of Foster and Elam v. Neilson, 2 Peters, 314.
The court say the words of the 'article are, "that all the
grants of land made before the 24th of January 1818, by his
catholic majesty, &c. shall be ratified and confirmed to the
persons in possession of the lands, to the same extent that the
same grants would be valid if the territories had remained
under the dominion of his catholic majesty." Do these words
act directly on the grants so as to give validity to those not
otherwise valid, or do they pledge the faith of the United
States to pass acts which shall ratify and confirm them? That
article does not declare that all the grants made by his catholic
majesty before the 24th of January 1818, shall be valid to the
same extent as if the ceded territories had remained under his
dominion; and yet this is the very construction sought to be
given to it in the present case. It does not say that those
grants are hereby confirmed. Had such oeen its language, it
would have acted directly on the subject, and would have repealed those acts of congress which were repugnan to it. But
its language is, that those grants shall be ratified and confirmed
to" the persons in possession, &c. By whom shall they be
ratified and confirmed? This seems to be the language of contract; and if it is, the ratification and confirmation which are
promised, must be the att of the legislature.
Until suce act shall ne passed, the court is not at liberty to
disregard the existing laws on the subject. Congress appears
to have understood this article as it is understood by the court.

JANUARY TERM 1892.
[United Stales v. Arredondo and others.]

Boards of commissionera have been appointed for East and
West Fiorda, to receive claims for lands, and on their reports
titles to lands, not exceeding
acres, have been confirmed
to a veiy I irge amount.
By the act of the 8th of May 1822, 7th vol. Laws U. S.
104, sec. 4 and 5, concerning claims and titles to land within
the territory of Florida, persons claiming title under any
patent, grant. concession, or order of survey, dated previous
to the 24th day of January 1818, which were valid under the
Spanish government, or by the law of nations, and which are
not. rejected by the tieaty ceding the territory, are required to
file such claim "with the commissioners; and power is given to
the commissioners to inquire into the justice and validity of
such claims No patent or grant is exempt from such inquiry:
and if they are absolutely confirmed by the treaty, how could
the justice and validity of them be subject to the examination
of the commissioners?' And the same principle runs through all
the laws in relation to these claims. See acts of 1828, p. 60.
7th vol. Laws U. S. 300.
It appears to me,,therefore, that the plain letter of the.eighth
article of the treaty, the clear and manifest intention of the
negotiation, the uniform understanding of congress, and the
opinion f this court, all concur in the construction, that grants
made prior to the 24th of January 1818 are required to be
ratified and confirmed to persons in the actual possession of
the lands at the date of the treaty, and to be held valid to the
ame extent only that they would have been binding on the
king of Spain; giving to bona fide grantees in such actual possession, and having commenced settlements, but who had been
prevented by the late circumstances of the Spanish nation and
the revolutions in Eufope from fulfilling all the conditions of
their grants, time to complete them.
If, by the true construction of the treaty, the party claiming
the benefit of this article must show an actual possession of the
land at the date of the treaty, it becomes necessary to inquire
what that date is. It was co icluded and signed on the 22d
of February 1819, ratified by the king of Spain on the 24th of
October 1820, and by the United States on the 19th of February 1821; and the question is, which of these periods is to
be taken as the date of the treaty? I think the time the treaty

SUPREME COURT.
[United-States v. Arredondo and others.]

was concluded -nd signed, must be taken as the date. The
contracting parties had in view the state and condition of things
at that time, and neither could in good faith change such condition so as to affect any stipulations in the treaty. Any other
construction would open the door to fraud and imposition.
Suppose the eighth article, instead of the 24th of January 1818,
had said, all grants of land made before the date of the treaty
shall be valid; would that have made valid grants issued after
the treaty was signed, and before ratified by the United States?
No one, it is believed, would contend for this; and if for any
purpose the date as fixed by the instrument would govern, it
ought in all cases. The rule should be uniform, and not open
to be changed for the purpose of meeting particular cases.
The date as fixed in the instrument is the only certain period:
the time of ratification is altogether uncertain. Changes may
take place between the two periods, materially affecting the
negotiation, and the ratification may be delayed for the express
purpose of acco aplishing some such object.
The true rule on this subject is laid down by Mr Justice
Washington, in the case of Hylton v. Brown, I Wash. C. C.
R. 312; that the treaty, when ratified, relates back to the time
of signing. The ratification is nothing more than evidence of
the authority under which the minister acted. A government
is bound to perform and observe a treaty made by its minister,
unless it can be made to appear that he has exceeded his
authority. But a ratification is an acknowledgemcnt that he
was authorised to make the treaty; and if so, the nation is
bound from the time the treaty is made and signed: and it is
worthy of notice, that in all the acts of congress in relation to
this treaty it is referred to as of the date of 22d February
1819, the time it was signed; thereby showing the understanding of our own government on the subject. If this then is to
be taken as the date of the treaty, there is no pretence that at
tfiat time, or even when ratified by the king of Spain, any
settlement had been made or possession taken of any part of
this tract. It is, therefore, in my opinion, a case not coming
within the saving provision in the eighth article of the treaty.
But if the time of ratification is assumed as the date of the
treaty, no possession of the land had then been taken, within
any reasonable construction of the treaty. William H. Hall

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[United States v. Arredondo and others.]

testifies that he, with two men, by the name of Smith and
Lan man, went to Alachua, on the 7th of November 1820, and
began to clear some land and erect some buildings. That hd
soon after went to St Augustine, where he was taken sick and
remained some time. That on returning to Alachua, he found
some persons there, employed by Mitchell and Arredondo,
who were personally disagreable to him, and he abandoned
the project and settlement (record 189); and what became of
thtu others does not appear-they must have abandoned also:
for, William H. Simmons testifies (record 174, 176), that he
was at Alachua in February 1822; saw five or six houses;
Wanton was there, and he understood had been upwards of a
year. That on his first visit, there was no other person
established there but Ir Wanton, and some negroes. So that
in February 1822, one year after the ratification of the treaty
by the United States, one white man and a few negroes, who,
the witness understood, had been there upwards of a year,
were the only persons on the land: and this is claimed to be a
possession of nearly three hundred thousand acres of land,
within the meaning of a solemn treaty. This view of the case
renders it unnecessary for me to enter upon the inquiry respecting the authority of the intendant Ramirez to make the
grant in question, or whether the conditions contained in it
have been performed, or in any way dispensed with or discharged.
Upon the whole, I am of opinion that the judgment of the
court ought to be reversed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the superior court for the eastern district of
Florida, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion that there is no error in so much
of the said decree as determines that the claim is -'alid and
ought to be confirmed; and this Court doth affirm so much
thereof, and doth decree that the title of the claimants is valid
according to the stipulations of the treaty between the United
States and Spain, dated the 22d day of February, Anno
Dominj 1819, the laws of the United States in relation there.
to, the laws of nations, and of Spain. Ahd this Court pro-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Arredondo and othera.]

ceeding to render such decree as the said superior court ought
to have done, doth finally order, determine and decree, that so
mbeh of said decree as directs-the land embraced in the grant
of Don Alexandro Ramirez, the intendant of Cuba, to Don
Fernando de la Maza Arredondo y Hijo, dated the 22d day of
December, Anno Domini 1817, to be laid off "in a square
tract, containing two hundred and eighty-nine thousand six
hundred and forty-five and five-sevenths acres of English measurement, the centre thereof being the known spot, monument or marked tree, at or near the house at present the
dwelling of Edward M Wanton; said spot, monum, nt or
marked tree, to be a~certained by the surveyor, who undcr
the law shall survey the said tract," be and the same is hereby
reversed and annulled. And this Court doth f'!,iher and
finally order, adjudge and decree, that the said land be laid off
in a square form, containing two hundred and eighty-nine
thousand six hundred and forty-five and five-sevenths acres,
English measure, the centre whereof to be a place known as
Alachua, inhabited in other ,times by a tribe of Seminole Indians. And the centre of said place, known asAlachua, to be
considered as the centre of the grant.

