SUPREME COURT.

BANK OF THE

UNITED

STATES,

PLAINTIFF V.

WILLIA31

GREEN AND OTHERS, DEFENDANTS.

Upon a motion of the defendants a rule was given,,in the circuit court of the
United States for the district of Ohio, on the marshal, to show cause why the
taxation of costs in the case, upon execution, stuould not be reversed and cor-

rected, in respect to the marshal's poundage taxed against the defendantq. The
judges of the circuit court were divided in opinion upon the questions of costs
presented on the hearing of the rule, and certified the division to this coutt.
Held, that this court had not jurisdiction of the cause.

THIS case came before the court on a certificate of division of
opinion between the judges of the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Ohio
In the circuit court of Ohio, at July term 1829, on the motion of the defendants, a rule $as given on the marshal of the
district of Ohio, and on the plaintiff, to show cause why the
taxation of costs in this case, upen cxecu tion, should not be
reversed, and corrected in respect to the marshal's poundage
taxed against the defendants.
Upon showing cause, it appeared, that on the 30th day of
September 1824, the plaintiff sued out of this court a writ of
fieri facias et levari facias against the goods and chattels of the
defendants, sixty-one thousand one hundred and forty dollars
and forty-nine cents, with interest from the 5th of September
1821 until paid, returnable the first Monday in January 1825;
on which said writ was indorsed by the parties an agreement
waiving any levy on goods and chattels, and that a levy should
be made on real estate; in pursuance whereof, the marshal
made return of a levy on various parcels of real estate in the
city of Cincinnati and elsewhere, that he had sold the same,
and made part of the money, but had made no further levy for
want of time. This return was made first'Monday of January
1825. It further appeared, upon a further process on the
same judgment, a further levy was made on real estate, the
sale of which was stayed by plaintiff; and that, for the sale of
various parcels of real estate so levied by the marshal, the
plaintiff, on the 9th day of April 1827, issued out of this court,
upon the said marshal's return, a writ of venditioni exponas,

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Bank of tire United States v. Green and others.]

returnable to the econd Monday of July 1827; which writ
the plaintiff's agent returned to the clerk's office the 5th July
1825, not having placed the same in the hands of the marshal,
but having received satisfaction of the judgment from the defendants. It further appeared, that the marshal, upon the last
mentioned levy, indorsed the taxation of his poundage at
seven hundred and ninety-two dollars and fifty cents, under
the act of congress, which is the taxation complained of,
and sought to be reversed and corrected by the said rule
nisi. It further appeared that by a law of the state of Ohio,
passed the 19th February 1824, and then and ever since regulating the fees of certain officers, the poundage of sheriffs, on
writs of executions from all courts of the said state, is granted
by a single clause in the following words: ,4poundage.on all
moneys made on execution two per cent," which then was
and still is the only law of the state regulating or granting
poundage. The whole of the law of Ohio is referred to
as a part of the case. It further appeared, that, at the December separate session of the supreme court of Ohio in the
year 1826, in the case of Vance against the Bank of Columbus, that court decided that the words "money made on execution" in the above clause, could only relate to such sums as
are actually paid into the sheriff's hands "upon the execution," and not to such sums as are actually paid to the creditor.
It also appeared that no counsel appeared in that case for the
sheriff. It further appears, that in the taxation aforesaid complained of in the rule, the marshal claimed and taxed the rate
of poundage allowed by the before mentioned act of congress.
In showing cause, the following questions arose, upon which
the opinions of the judges were opposed, and which, on the
request of the marshal by his said attorneys, were stated,
and ordered to be tertified 'by the clerk of this court, under
the seal thereof, to the Supreme Court of the United States,
at their next term, for their decision, viz.
1. Whether the marshal's poundage on moneys collected,
made, or paid on executions issued out of a circuit or district
court of the United States, is confined and regulated by the
following words, viz. "for sales of vessels and other property, and for receiving and paying the money, for any sum
under five hundred dollars, two and one half per cent for iny

SUPREME COURT.
tBank of the United States v. Green and others.]

larger sum, of one and one quarter .upon the excess;" in the
first section of the act of congress, passed 28th February 1799,
entitled "an act for providing compensation for the marshals,
clerks, attorneys, jurors, and witnesses in the courts of the
United States, viz. for all other services not herein enumerated, except as shall be hereafter provided, such fees and
compensation as are allowed in the supreme court of the state
where such services are rendered."
2. If regulated by the words first mentioned, then whether
the marshal's poundage attaches upon a levy and return, where
afterwards the debt shall be paid to the party, or only accrued
upon a sale and receipt of the money and paying it over by
him. Or,
3. Whether the marshal's poundage is confirmed by the before mentioned words in the proviso, and are in the cause here
stated to be regulated by the before mentioned law of Ohio.
4. If the marshal's poundage in the cause here stated is to
be regulated by the law of Ohio, then whether, by a just construction of that law, poundage is due upon the levy and return in question. Or,
5. Is this court bound by the construction of that law given
by the supreme court of Ohio.
The case was argued by Mr Doddridge for the marshal of
the district of Ohio, and by Mr Ewing for the defendant.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
court: that the case was not within the jurisdiction of this
court. The division of opinion was not upon any matter
arising at'the trial of the cause, but was upon a mere matter
arising upon the service of the execution by the marshal;
and was a mere question for the circuit court upon a collateral
contest between the marshal and the bank, as to his right to
fees. It was not therefore a case within the purview of the
judicial act of 1802.

