JANUARY TERM 1832,

THE PRESIDENT, RECORDER AND TnuSTEES O THE CITY O
CINCINNATI, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. THE LESSEE OF
EDWARD WHITE, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
The equitable owners of a tract of land on the river Ohio (the legal title to which
was granted to John Cleves Symmes, from whom they had purchased the land
before the emanation of the patent from theUnited States) proceeded in January
1789 to lay out on part of the ?aid tract a town, now the city of Cincinnati.
A plan was made and approved of by all the eqtitable proprietors, and accordlug towliich the ground lying between Front street and the river was set apart
as a common, for the use and benefit of the town forever, reserving only the
right of a ferry; and no lots were laid out on the land thus dedicated as a common. Afierwards, the legal title to the lands became vested in the piaintitf in
this ejectment, Who, under the same, sought to recovdr the premises so dedicated to public uses. Held: that the right of the public to use the common
In Cincinnati must rest on the same principles as the right to use the streets;
and that the dedication made when the town was laid out, gave a valid and
indefeasible title to the city of Cincinnati.
Dedications of land for public purposes have frequently come under the conside.
ration of this court, and the objections which have been raised against their
ialidity, have been, the want of a grantee competent to take the title; apply.
ing to them the same rule which prevails in private grants, that there must
be a grantee as well as a grantor. But that is not the light in which this court
has considered such dedications for public use. The law applies to them rules
adapted to the nature and circumstances of the 'case, and to carry into execution the intention and object of the grantor, and secure to the public the benefit held out and expected to be derived from and enjoyed by the dedication.
There is no particular form or ceremony necessary in the dedication of land to
public use. All that is required is the assent of he owner of the land, and the
fact of its being used for the public purposes intended by the appropriation.
Although the dedications of land for charitable and religious purposes, which It
i; admitted are valid without any grantee to'4 hom the fee could be conveyed,
are the cases which most frequently occur, and are to be found in the books;
It is not perceived how any well grounded distinction can be made between
such cases, and the case of a dedication of land for the use of the city of Cincinnati. The same necessity exists in the one case as in the other, for the
purpose of effecting the object intended. The principle, if well founded in the
law, must have a general application to all appropriations and dedications for
public uses, when there is no grantee in esse to take the fee. But this forms
an exception to the rule applicable to private grants, and grows out of the
necessity of the case.
In this class of cases there may be instances where, contrary to the general rule,
a fee may remain in abeyance until there is a grantee capable of taking, when
the object and purpose of the appropriation look to a future grantee in which
the fee is to vest. But the validity of the dedication does not depend on this:
It will preclude the party making the appropriation from re-asserting any right

SUPREME COURT.
[City of Cincinnati v. The Lessee of White.]
over the land; at all events, so long as it remains in public use, although there
may never arise any grantee capable of taking the fee.
The doctrine of the law relative to the appropriation of land for public highways,
was applied to a public spring of water for public use in the case of M'Connellv. The Trustees of the Town of Lexington, 12 Wheat. 582.
All public dedications must be considered with reference to the use for which
they are made; and streets in a town or city may require a more enlarged use
of the land, it order to carry into effect the purposes intended, than may be
necessary in an appropriation for a highway in the country. But the principle,
so far as respects the right of the original owner to disturb the use, must rest
on the same ground in both cases; and applies equally to the dedication of the
common as to the streets. This was for the public use, and the convenience
and accommodation of the inhabitants of Cincinnati; and doubtless greatly enhanced the value of the private property adjoining this common, and thereby
compensated the owfiers for the land thus thrown out as public ground.
And afier being thus set apart for public use, and enjoyed as such, and private
and individual rights acquired with reference to it, the law considers it in the
nature of an estoppel in pais, which precludes the original owner from revoking such dedication. It is a violation of good faith to the public, and to those
who have acquired.private property with a view to the erijoyment of the use
thuspublicly granted
If the mere naked fee is in the plaintiff in ejectment,it byno means follows that
he is entitled to recover possession of the land in his action. The action of
ejectment is a possessory action, and the plaintiff, to entitle himself to recover,
must hasie the right of possession; and whatever takes away this right of possession, will deprive'him of the remedy by ejeotment.

THIS was a writ of error, to the circuit court of the district of
Ohio.
The case came before the court on a bill of exceptioas, taken
by the plaintiffis in error, the defendants in the circuit court, to
the instructions given by the court to the jury on the request
of the counsel for the plaintiffs in that court; and to the refusal
of the court to give certain instructions as prayed for by the
defendants below.
In the opinion of the court no decision is given on those
exceptions, save only on that which presented the question
of the dedication of the land in controversy for the use of the
city of Cincinnati; which, and the facts of the case connected
therewith, are fully stated in the opinion of the court. The
arguments of the counsel' in the case, on' the matters of law
presented by the exceptions, are therefore necessarily omitted.
The case was argued by Mr Storer and M; Webster, for the
plaintiffs in error; and by Mr Ewing and Mr Clay, for the.
defendants.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[City of Cincinnati v. The Lessee of Wbite.]

Mr Justice THoMpsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
The ejectment in this case was brought by Edward White,
who is also the defendant in error, to recover possession of a
small lot of ground in the city of Cincinnati, lying in that part
of the city usually denominated the Common. To a right
understanding of the question upon which the opiniono f the
court rests, it will be sufficient to state generally, that on the
15th of October in the year 1788, John Cleves Symmes entered into a contract with the then board of treasury, under the
direction of congress, for the 'purchase of a large tract of land,
then a wilderness, including that where the city of Cincinnati
now stands. Some negotiations relative to the payments for
the land delayed the consummation of the contract for several
years. But on the 30th of September 1794, a patent was
issued conveying to Symmes and his associates, the land contracted for; and as Symmes was the only person named in the
patent, the fee was of course vested in him.
Before the issuing of the patent, however, and, as the witnesses say, in the year 1788, Mathias Denman purchased of
Symmes a part of the tract included in the patent, and embracing the land whereon Cincinnati now stands. That in the
same year, Denman sold one-third of his purchase to Irael
Ludlow, and one-third to Robert Patterson. These three
persons, Denman, Ludlow and Patterson, being the equitable
owners of the land (no legal title having been granted), proceeded in January 1789 to lay out the town. A plan was
made and approved of by all the proprietors; and according to
which the ground lying between Front street and the river,
and so located as to include the premises in question, was set
apart as a common, for the use and benefit of the town for ever,
reserving only the right of a ferry; and no lots were laid-out
on the land thus dedicated as a common.
The lessor of the plaintiff made title to the premises in question under Mathias Denman, and produced in evidence a copy,
duly authenticated, of the location of the fraction 17 from the
books of John C. Symmes to Mathias Denman, as follows:
"1791, April 4, Captain Israel Ludlow, in behalf of Mr Mathias Denman of New Jersey, presents for entry and location
a warrant for one fraction of a section, or one hundred and
seven acres and eight-tenths of an acre of land, by virtue of
VOL. VI.-3 E

434

SUPREME COURT.
[City of Cincinnati Y. The Lessee of Whe.]

which he locates the seventeenth tractional section in the
fourth fractional township, east of the Great Miami river, in
the first fractional range of townships on the Ohio river; number of the warrant 192." In March 1795, Denman conveyed
his interest, which was only an equitable interest, in the lands
so located-to Joel Williams; and on the 14th of February 1800
John Cleves Symmes conveyed to Joel Williams infee, certain
lands described in the deed which included the premises in
question; and on the 16th of April 1800, Joel Williams conAnd the lessor
veyed to John Daily the lot now in questiol.
of the plaintiff, by suidry mesne conveyances, deduces a title
to the premises to himself.
In the course of the trial several exceptions were taken to
the ruling of the court, with respect to the evidence offered on
the part of the plaintiff in making out his claim of title. But
in the view which the court has taken of what may be considered the substantial merits of the case, it becomes unnecessary to notice those exceptions.
The merits of the case will properly arise upon one of the
instructions given by the court, as askcd by the plaintiff; and
in refusing to give one of the instructions asked on the part of
the defendant. At the request of the plaintiff, the court instructed the jury, "that to enable the city to hold this ground
and defend themselves in this actioln by possession, they must
show an unequivocal, uninterrupted possession for at least
twenty years."
On the part of the defendants, the court was asked to instruct
the jury, "that it was competent for the original proprietors
of the town of Cincinnati to reserve and dedicate any part of
said town to public uses, without granting the same by writing
or deed to any particular person; by which reservation and
dedication the whole estate of the said proprietors in said land,
thus reserved and dedicated, became the property of, and was
vested in the public, for the purposes intended by the said proprietors; and that, by such dedication and reservation, the said
original proprietors, and all persons claiming under them, are
estopped from asserting any claim or right to the said land
thus reserved and dedicated." The court refused to give the
instruction as asked, but gave the following instruction:
"That it was competent for the original proprietors of the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[01y of Cichmati "v.
The Lessee of White.]

town of Cincinnati to reserve and dedicate any part of said
town to public uses, without granting the same by writing or
deed to any particular persofi; by which reservation and dedication the right of we to such part, is vested in the public for
the purposes designated; but that such reservation and dedication do not invest the public with the fee."
The ruling of the court to be collected from these instructions was, that although there might be a parol reservation and
dedication to the public of the tme of lands; yet such reservation and dedication did not invest the public with the fee; and
that a possession and enjoyment of the use for less than twenty
years, was not a defence in this action.
The decision and direction of the circuit court upon those
points, come up on a writ of error to this court.
It is proper in the first place to observe, that although the
land which is in dispute, and a part of which is the lot now in
question, has been spoken of by the witness s as having been
set apart by the proprietors as a common, we are not to understand the term as used by them in its strict legal sense; as
being a right or profit which one man may have in the lands
of another; but in its popular sense, as a piece of ground left
open for common and public use, for the convenience and accommodation of the inhabitants bf the town.
Dedications of land for public purposes have frequently come
under the consideration of this court; and the objections which
have generally been raised against their validity have been the
want of a grantee competent to take the title; applying to
them the rule which prevails in private grants, that there
must be a grantee as well as a grantor. But that is not the
light in which this court has considered such dedications for
public use. The law applies to them rules adapted to the nature and circumstances of the case, and to carry into execution the intention and object of the grantor; and secure to the
public the benefit held out, and expected to be derived from,
and enjoyed .by the dedication.
It was admitted at the bar, that dedications of land for charitable and religious purposes, and for public highways, were
valid, without any grantee to whom the fee could be conveyed.
Although such ore the cases which most frequently occur and
are to be found in the books, it is not perceived how any well

SUPREME COURT.
[City of Cincinnad v. The Lessee of White ]

grounded distinction can be made between such cases and the
present. The same necessity exists in the one case as in the
other, for the purpose of effecting the object intended. The
principle, if well founded in the law, must have a general application to all appropriations and dedications for public use,
where there is no grantee in esse to take the fee. But this
forms an exception to the rule applicable to private grants,
and grows out of the necessity of the case. In this class of
cases there may be instances, contrary to the general rule,
where the fee may remain in abeyance until there is a grantee
capable of taking; where the object and purpose of the appropriation look to a future grantee in whom the fee is to vest.
But the validity of the dedication does not depend on this; it
will preclude the party making the appropriation from reasserting any right over the land; at all events so long as it
remains in public use: although there may never arise any
grantee capable of taking the fee.
The recent ease of Beatty v. Kurts,'2 Peters, 256, in thio
court, is somewhat analogous to the present. There a lot of
ground had been marked out upon the original plan of an addition to Georgetown, "for the Lutheran Church," and had
been used as a place of burial from the time of the dedication.
There was not, however, at the time of the appropriation, or
at any time afterwards, any incorporated Lutheran church
capable of taking the donation.
The case turned upbn the question, whether the title to the
lot ever passed from Charles Beatty, so far as to amount to a
perpetual appropriation of it to the use of the Lutheran church.
That was a parol dedication only, and designated on the plan
of the town. The principal objection relied upon was, that
there was no grantee capable of taking the grant. But the
court sustained the donation, on the ground that it was a dedication of the lot to public and pious uses; adopting the principle that had been laid down in the case of the Town of
Pawlet v. Clark, 9 Cranch, 292, that appropriations of this
description were exceptions to the general rule requiring a
grantee. That it was like a dedication of a highway to the
public. This last remark shows that the case did not turn
upon the bill of rights of Maryland, or the statute of Elizabeth
relating to charitable uses, but rested upon more general prin-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[City of Cincinnati v. The Lessee of White.]

ciples; as is evident from what fell from the court in the case
of the Town of Pawlet v. Clark, which was a dedication to
religious uses; yet the court said this was not a novel doctrine
in the common law. In the familiar case where a man lays
out a street or public highway over his land, there is, strictly
speaking, no grantee of the easement, but it takes effect by
way of grant or dedication to public uses. And in support of
the principle, the case of Lade v. Shepherd, 2 Stra. 1004, was
referred to; which was an action of trespass, and the place
where the supposed trespass was committed, was formerly the
property of the plaintiff, who had laid out a street upon it,
which had continued thereafter to be used as a public highway.;
and it was insisted on the part of the defendant, that by the
plaintiff's making a street, it was a dedication of it to the pub;
lie, and that although he, the defendant, might be liable for a
nuisance, the plaintiff could not sue him for a trespass. But
the court said, it is certainly a dedication to the public, so far
as the public has occasion for it, which is only for a right of
passage; but it never was understood to be a transfer of his
absolute property in the soil.
The doctrine necessarily growing out of that case, has a
strong bearing upon the one now before the court, in two points
of viewr. It shows, in the first place, that.no deed or writing
was necessary to constitute a valid dedication of the easement.
All that was done, from any thing that appears in the case, was
barely laying out the street by the owner, across his land.
And in the second place, that it is not necessary that the fee
of the land should pass, in order to secure the easement to the
public. And this must necessarily be so from the nature of
the case, in the dedication of all public highways. There is
no grantee to take immediately, nor is any one contemplated
by the party to take the fee at any future day. No grant or
conveyance can be necessary to pass the fee out of the owner
of the land, and let it remain in abeyance until a grantee phall
come in esse; and indeed the case referred to in Strange considers the fee as remaining in the original owner; otherwise he
could sustain no action for a private injury to the soil, he
having transferred to the public the actual possession.
If this is the doctrine of the law applicable to highways, it
must appTy with equal force, and in all its parts,*to all dedica-

SUPREME COURT.
[City of Cincinnati v. The Lessee of White.]

tions of land to public uses; and it was so applied by this court
to the reservation of a public spring of water for public use, in
the case of M'Connell v. The Trustees of the Town of Lexington, 12 Wheat. 582. The court said; the reasonableness of
reserving a public spring for public use, the concurrent opinion
of all the settlers that it was so reserved, the universal admission of all that it was never understood that the spring lot was
drawn by any person, and the early appropriation of it to public purposes; were decisive against the claim.
The tight of the public to the use of the common in Cincinnati, must rest on the same principles as the right to the use
of the streets. and no one will contend, that the original
owners, after having laid out streets, and sold building lots
thereon, and improvements made, could claim the easement
thus dedicated, to the public.
All public dedications must be considered with reference to
the use for which they are made; and streets in a town or city
may require a more enlarged right over the use of the land, in
order to carry into effect the purposes intended, than may be
necessary in an appropriation for a highway in the country;
bnt the principle, so far as respects the right of the original
owner to disturb the use, must rest on the same ground in both
cases; and applies equally to the dedication of the common as
to the streets. It was for the public use, and the convenience
and accommodation of the inhabitants of Cincinnati; and doubtless greatly enhanced the value of the private property adjoining this common, and !*ereby compensated the owners for the
land thus thrown out as public grounds.
And after being thus set apart for public use, and enjoyed as
such, and private and individual rights acquired with reference
to it, the law considers it in the nature of an estoppel in pais,
which precludes the original owner from revoking such dedication. It is a violation of good faith to the public, and to those
who have acquired private property with a view to the enjoyment of the use thus publicly granted.
The right of the public in such cases does not depend upon
a twenty years' possession. Such a doctrine, applied to public
highways and the streets of the numerous villages and cities
that are so rapidly springing up in every part of our country,
would be destructive of public co. 'enience and pr~ate right.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[City of'Cincinnati v. The Lessee of White.]

The case of Jarvis v. Dean, 3 Bingham, 447, shows that
rights of this description do not rest upon length of possession.
The plaintiff's right to recover in that case, turned upon the
question whether a certain street in the parish of Islington had
been dedicated to the public as a common public highway.
Chief Justice Best, upon the trial, told the jury that if they
thought the street had been used for years as a public thoroughfare, with the 'assent of the owner of the soil, they might presume a dedication; and the jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, and the court refused to grant a new trial, but sanctioned
the direction given to the jury and the verdict found thereupon; although this street had been used as a public road only
four or five years; the court saying, the jury were warranted in
presuming it was used with the full assent of the owner of the
soil. The point therefore upjon which the establishment of
the public street rested, was whether it had been used by the
public as such, will the assent of the owner of the soil; not
whether such use had been for a length of time, which would
give the right by force of'the possession; nor whether a grant
might be prbsumed; but whether it had been used with the
assent of the owner of the land; necessarily implying, that the
mere naked fee of the land remained in the owner of the soil,
but that it became a public street, by his permission to have it
used as such. Such use, however, ought to be for such a
length of time that the public accommodation and private
rights might be materially affected by an interruption of the
enjoyment.
In the present case, the fact of dedication to public use, is
not left to inference, from the circumstance that the land has
been enjoyed as a common for many years. But the actual
appropriation for that purpose is established by the most positive
and conclusive evidence. And indeed the testimony is such
as would have warranted the jury in presuming a grant, if that
had been necessary. And the fee might be considered in
abeyance, until a competent grantee appeared to receive it;
which was as early as the year 1802, when the city was incorporated. And the common.having then been taken under the
charge and direction of the trustees, would be amply sufficient,
to show an acceptance, if that was necessary, for securing the
protection of the public right.

SUPREME COURT.
[City of Cincinfti v. The Lessee of White.]

But it has been argued; that this appropriation was a nullity,
because the proprietors, Denman, Ludlow.and Patterson, when
they laid out the town of Cincinnati, and appropriated this
ground as a common, in the year 1789, had no title to the land,
as the patent to Symmes was not issued until'the year 1794.
It is undoubtedly true that no legal title had passed from the
United States to Symmes. But the proprietors had purchased
of Symmes all his equitable right to their part of the tract which
he had under his contract with the government. This objection is more specious than solid, and does not draw after it the
conclusions alleged at the bar.
There is no particular form or ceremony necessary in the
dedication of land to public use. All that is required is the
assent of the owner of the land, and the fact of its being used
for the public purposes intended by the appropriation. This
was the doctrine in the case ofJarvis and Dean, already referred
to, with respect to a street; and the same rule must apply to all
public dedications; and from the mere use of the land, as public land, thus appropriated, the assent of the owner may be
presumed. In the present case, there having been an actual
dedication fully proved, a continued assent will be presumed,
until a dissent is shown; and t is should be satisfactorily
established by the party claiming against the dedication. In
the case of Rex v. Lloya, 1 Camp. 262, Lord Ellenborough
says, if the owner of the soil throws open a passage, and neither
marks by any visible distinction that he means to preserve all
his rights over it, nor excludes persons from passing through
it by positive prohibition, he shall be plresumed to have dedicated it to the public.
At the time the plan of the town of Cincinnati was laid out
by the proprietors, and the common dedicated to public
use, no legal title had been granted. But as soon as Symmes
became vested with the legal title, under the patent of 1794,
tle equitable right of the proprietors attached upon the legal
estate, and Symmes became their trustee, having no interest in
the land but the mere naked fee. And the assent of the proprietors to the dedication continuing, it has the same effect and
operation as if it had originally been made after the patent issued.
It may be c6nsidered a subsequent ratification and affirmance
of the first appropriation. And it is very satisfactorily proved,

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[C[{y of Cincinnati v. The Lessee of White.]

that Joel Williams, from whom the lessor of the plaintiff deduces.his title, well understood, when he purchased of Denman, and for some. years before, that this ground had been
dedicated as a public common by the proprietors. The original plat, exhibiting this ground as a common, was delivered to
him at the time of the purchase. And when he afterwards,
in the year 1800, took a deed from Symmes, he must, according to the evidence in the case, have known, that he was a
mere trustee, holding only the naked fee. And from the notoriety of the fact, that these grounds were laid open and used
as a common; it is fairly to be presumed, that all subsequent
purchasers had full knowledge of the fact.
But it is contended that the lessor of the plaintiff has shown
the legal title to the premises in question in himself, which is
enough to entitle.him to recover at law; and that the defendants' remedy, if any they have, is in a court of equity. And
such was substantially the opinion of the circuit court; in the
fourth instruction asked by the plaintiff, and given by the courtq,
viz. "thht if the said proprietors did appropriate said ground,
having -no title thereto, and afterwards acquired an equitable
title only, that equitable title could not enure so as to vest a
legal title in the city or citizens, and enable them to defend
themselves in an action of ejectment brought against them by
a persor, holding the legal title.
We do not accede to this doctrine. For should it be admitted, that the mere naked fee was in the lessor of the plaintiff, it by no means follows that he is entitled to recover possession of the common in an action of ejectment.
This is a possessory action) and the plaintiff, to entitle himself to recover, must have the right of possession; and whatever takes away this right of possession, will deprive him of
the remedy by ejectment. .Adams's Eject. 32. Starkie, part
4, 506, 507.
This is the rule laid down by Lord Mansfield in Atkins v.
Horde, 1 Burr. 119. An ejectment, says he, is a possessory
remedy, and only competent wher the lessor of the plaintiff
may enter; and every plaintiff in ejectment must show a right
of possession as well as of property. And in the case of Doe
v. Staple, 2 Durn. and East, 684, it was held, that although
an outstanding satisfied term may be presumed to be surrenVOL. V1.-3 F

SUPREME COURT.
[City of Cincinnati v. The Lessee of White.]

iered, yet an unsatisfied term, raised for the purpose of securing an annuity, cannot, during the life of the annuitant; and may
be set up as a bar to the heir at law, even though he claim
only subject to the charge. Thereby clearly showing the
plaintiff must have, not only the legal title, but a clear present right to the possession of the premises; or he cannot recover in an action of ejectment. And in the case of Doe v.
Jackson, 2 Dowl. and Ryl. 523, Bailey, Justice, says, "an action
of ejeetment, which from first to last is a fictions remedy, is
founded on the principle, that the tenant in possession is a
wrong doer; and unless he is so at the time the action is brought,
the plaintiff cannot recover."
If then it is indispensable that the lessor of the plaintiff
should show a right of possession in himself, and that the defendants are wrong doers; it is difficult to perceive on what
grounds this action can be sustained.
The later authorities in England which have been referred
to) leave it at least questionable, whether the doctrine of Lord
Mansfield in the case of Goodtitle v. Alker (1 Burr. 143),
"that ejeetment will lie by the owner of the soil for land,
which is subject to a passage over it as the king's highway;"
wotild be sustained at the present day at Westminster Hall.
It was not even at that day considered a settled point, for the
counsel on the argunient (page 140) referred to a case, said to
have been decided by Lord Hardvvicke; in which he held that
no possession could be delivered of the soil of a highway, and
therefore no ejeetment would lie for it.
This doctrine of Lord Mansfield has crept into most of our
elemefitary treatises on the action of ejectment, and has appa.
rently, in some instances, been incidentally sanctioned by judges.
But we are not aware of its having been adopted in any other
case where it was the direct point in judgment. No such
case was referred to on the argument, and none has fallen
under our notice. There are, however several cases in the
supreme court of errors of Connecticut, where the contrary
doctrine has been asserted and sustained by reasons much more
satisfactory than those upon which the case in Bprrow is made
to rest. Stiles v. Curtis, 4 Day, 328; Peek v. Smith, 1 Con.
Rep. 103.
But if we took at the action of ejeetment on principle, and

JANUARY TERM 1832.
(City of CineUnnat v. The Lewee tf White.]

inquire what is its object, it cannot be sustained on any rational ground. It is to recover possession of the land in question; and the judgment, if carried into execution, must be followed by delivery of possession to the lessor of the plaintiff.
The purpose for which the action is brought, is not to try
the mere abstract right to the soil, but to obtain actual possession; the very thing to which the plaintiff can have no exclusive or private right. This would be utterly inconsistent with
the admitted public right. That right consists in the uninterrupted enjoyment of the possession. The two rights are therefore incompatible with each other, and cannot stand together.
The lessor of the plaintiff seeks specific relief, and to be put
into the actual possession of the land. The very fruit of hisaction, therefore, if he avails himself of it, will subject him
an indictment for a nuisance; the private right of possession
being in direct hostility with the easement, or use to -which
the public are entitled; and as to the plaintiff's taking possession
subject to the easement, it is utterly impracticable. It is well
said, by MIr Justice Smith in the case of Stiles v. Curtis, that
the execution of a judgment in such case, involves as great an
inconsistency as to issue an habere facias possessionem of certain premises to A., subject to the possession of B. It is'said,
cases may exist where this action ought to be sustained for the
public benefit, as where erections are placed on the highway,
obstructing the public use. But what benefit would result
from this to the public? It would not remove the nuisance.
The effect of a recovery would only be to substitute another
offender against the public right, but would not abate the
nuisance. That must be done by another proceeding.
It is said in the case in Burrow, that an ejectment'could be
maintained because trespass would lie. But this certainly
does not follow. The object and effect of the recoveries are
entirely different. The one is to obtain possession of the land,
which is inconsistent with the enjoyment of the public right;
and the other is to recover damages merely, and not to interfere with the possession, which is in perfect harniony with
the public right. So, also, if the fee is supposed to remain in
the original owner, cases may arise where perhaps waste or a
special action on the case may be sustained for a private injury
to such owner. Butthese are actions perfectly consiatet with

444

SUPREME COURT.
[City of Cincinnati v. The Lewee of White.]

the public right. But a recovery in an action of ejectment,
if carried into execution, is directly repugnant to the public
right.
Upon the whole, the opinion of the court is, that the judgment must be reversed, and the cause sent back with directions
to issue a venire de novo.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Ohio, and was argued by counsel; on consideration ,whereof,
it is ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of
the said circuit court in this cause be ard the same is hereby
reversed, and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to award a
venire facias de novo.

