SUPREME COURT.

LESSEE OF STEPHEN SICARD ET AL. PLAINTIFFS IN ERROX
v. NANCY DAVIS ET AL. DEFENDANTS IN ERROR. SAME
v. JoHN CECIL AND ROBERT SMITHERS.
The act of the legislature of Kentucky, passed in 1796, respecting conveyances,
reduces into one all the laws.pieviously existing on the subject of recording
conveyances of land. That act does not create a right to'convey property
which any individual may possess; but restrains that right by certain rules,
which it prescribes, and which are deemed necessary for public security. The
original right to convey property remains unimpaired, except so far as it is
ibridged by that statute.
Under that statute the only requisites to a valid conveyance of lands are, that it
shall be in writing, and shall be sealed and delivered.
The acknowledgement, and the proof which may authorise the admission of the
dqed to record, and the recording thereof, are provisions which the law makes
-for the security of creditors and purchaseis. They are essential to the validity
of the deed as to persons of that description, not as to the grantor. His estate
passes out of him and vests in the grantee, as far as respects himself, as entirely, if the deed be in writing, sealed and delivered, as ifit be also acknowledged, or attested and proved by three subscribing witnesses, and recorded in
the proper court. In a suit between them, such a deed is completely executed, and would be conclusive, although never admitted to record, nor attested by any subscribing witness. Pioof of sealing and delivering would
alone be required; and the acknowledgement of the fact by the party would be
sufficient eroof of it.
ft the original deed remained in existence, proof of the hand-writing, added to
its being in possession of the grantee, would, it is presumed, be prima fade
evidence that it was sealed and delivered. No reason is perceived why such
evidence should not be as satisfactory in the case of a deed, as in the case of
a bond. Where the deed is lost, positive proof of the hand.writing is not to
be expected. The grantee must depend on other proof.
The words of the first section of the statute, declaring, "that no estate of inheritance in lands, &c., shall be conveyed from one to another, unless the conveyance be declared by writing, sealed and delivered, nor shall such conveyance
be good against a purchaser for valuable consideration, not having notice
thereof, or any creditor, unless the same writing be acknowledged," &c. can
apply only to purchasers of the titleasserted by virtue of the conveyance, and
to creditors of the party who has made it. They protect such purchasers from
a conveyance of which they had no notice, and which, if known, would have
prevented their making the purchase; because it would have informed them that
the title was bad, that the vendor had nothing to sell. But the purchaser from a
different person, of a different title, claimed under a different patest, would be
entirely unconcerned in the conveyance. To him it would be entirely unimportant, whether this distinct conflicting title was asserted by the original paibntee, or by his vendor. The same general terms are applied to creditors and
to purchasers; and the word creditors, can mean only the creditors of the
vendor.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
ELessee of Sicard et al. v. Davis et al.]
Vhat should be considered suffici ent proof of the loss of a deed, to entitle the
person holding under it to read a copy of it in evidence; and what was sufficient proof of the execution of the original deed to entitle it to be read in evidence to tho jury.
A possession taken under a junior patent, which interferes with a senior patent,
the lands covered by which are totally unoocupied by any person holding or
claiming under it; is not limited to the actual inclosure, but -s co-extensive
with the boundaries claimed under such junior patent.
A count in the declaration in an ejectment, on a demise from a different party,
asserting a different title, is nqt distinguishable; so far as respects the act of
limitations; from a new action.
rhe construction of the act of limitations, that if adverse possession be taken in
the life time of the ancestor, and be continued.for twenty years, and for ten
years after the death of the ancestor, no entry having been made by the ancestor or those claiming-under him, the entry is barred; is established by the decisions bf this court, as well as of the courts of Kentucky.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United Stateg for the district of Kentucky.
On the 8th day of March 1825, Stephen Sicard, a citizen of
Pennsylvania, commenced his actions of ejectment in the circuit court for the district of Kentucky against Jesse Davis and
others, and against John Cecil, Robert Smithers and others, for
the recovery of six thousand six hundred and eighty acres of
land, or parts of the same. Those who wereIn possession of
'the lands were admitted as defendanis; eiich for himself; and
pleaded not guilty. In the progress of the case, the plaintiff
was twice non suited, and the non suits were set aside. Nancy
Davis, after the death of her husband, became, on motion, a
party to the suit.
The demise in the declaration was stated to have been made
by Stephen Sicard, on the 30th of January 1815. Afterwards,
at November term 1821, upon motion of the plaintiff,'leave
Was given to amend the declaration, by laying a demise in the
name of the heirs of the original grantee of the land, Joseph
Phillips, and from others to whom the land had been conveyed, before 'the execution of the deed under which Stephen
Sicard acquired his title.
The. cause was tried at the October term 1824 of the circuit
court, and judgments were rendered for the defendants.
The plaintiff on the trial tendered a bill of exceptions in
each case; and the cases were brought up to this court on writs
of error prosecuted by him.

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Sicard et a].
v. Daviset d1.]

The bills of exceptions stated the evidence given by the
plaintiff to maintain the suits, to have been a patent dated
6th of June 1786, from the state of Virginia to Joseph Phillips,
for six thousand six hundred and eighty acres of land, under a
survey daied 4th of May 1784; and proof that the patent covered the land in controversy; and that the defendants were in
adverse possession at the commencement of the suit.
Also copies of deeds from Joseph Phillips to Benjamin Stephens and from Stephens to Samuel R. Marshall, and from
Marshall to Stephen Sicaid.
The first deed from Joseph Phillips to Benjamin Stephens,
is dated the 16th of October 1797. The second deed from
Stephens to Marshall, is dated the 25th of December 1797.
The deed from Marshall to Sicard is dated the 25th of May
179-8; and these deeds covered the land in suit.
The plaintiff also proved, that Phillips, Stephens, Marshall
and Sicard, always resided in Pennsylvania, New York and
New Jersey.
It was proved that Phillips and Stephens died in the year
1798 Qr 1799.
The deed of Joseph Phillips to Benjamin Stephens is dated
the 16th -of October 1797. On the 8th of June 1798, it appears that Joseph Spencer, of Philadelphia, appeared before
Iillary Baker, mayor of Philadelphia, and deposed that he
saw Joseph Phillips sign, seal and deliver the said deed; that he
saw Samuel R. Marshall and John Phillips severally subscribe
their respectie names thereunto, as witnesses to the signing,
sealing and delivering the said deed.
This deed, thus 'proved, was recorded, together with the
deeds from Stephens to Marshall and from Marshall to Sicard,
and were, on the 23d of April 1803, certified by the clerk of the
court of appeals to have been recorded in his office in Frankford, in the state of Kentucky.
The plaintiff, in order to introduce the copies of the deede
in evidence, and to prove the execution of the original deeds,
produced a paper signed by Alexander Parker, stating that he
had .received, February 9th, 1803, of Mr Stephen Sicard,
three deeds for a certain tract of land lying in Nelson county,
and state of Kentucky, on Chaplin's fork; the first, Joseph Phillips to Benjamin Stephens for six thousand six hundred and

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Lessee of Sicard et a]. v. Davis et aL.]

eighty acres of land; the second, Benjamin Stephens to Samuel
R. Marshall for said land; the third, Samuel R. Marshall to
Stephen Sicard for same; also a certificate of Ralph Phillips
concerning the same: all to be recorded in the office at Frankfort in Kentucky.
The plaintiff also read the deposition of Thomas Wallace,
who swore, that in the summer of 1803, said Parker told him
that he had left at deponent's store, or with a Mr Scott, his
clerk, three deeds, the property of Sicard, to be carried from
Lexington to Philadelphia by the deponent. He knows nothing of the papers, nor does he recollect ever to have seen
them: he has searched for them among his papers, but is unable to find them.
Alexander Parker proved the receipt, and that he got the
deeds recorded in the court of appeals of Kentucky-that he
inclosed said deeds directed to Mr Sicard, Philadelphia, and left
them with Mr Wallace's clerk, to be taken by Wallaqe to
Sicard. These deeds he believes were originals; he has never
seen them since; he believes Scott was dead: that for several
years he paid the taxes for said land, and saw the entry of said
land for taxes in the auditor's office.
Mary Powell, a witness, resident in Philadelphia, swore she
is the widow of Benjamin Powell, and that she is fully satisfied from what'her husband told her that lie did witness a deed
to, which Benjamin Stephens and Robert Marshall were parties, or at least the said Stephens was the seller therein; her
husband died in 1820; and that some time before his death, he
went out with Stephen Sicard to attest the fact of his, the said
Powell's, having subscribed the said deed as a witness to the
execution thereof before a magistrate or alderman.
Joseph Spencer, in his deposition stated that he has some
recollection of having witfiessed an instrument of writing,
supposed by him to be a conveyance of land, (but it was not
known to him to whom granted thereby) at the house of John
Phillips, which he did some twenty years before the date of
his deposition (1822); and his meeting again one or more of the
family, he believes Dr Joseph Phillips, in the city of Philadelphia, at the office of HilaryBaker, to authenticate the haud writing to the instrument as a witness to both; but he has no certain date in his memory.

128

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Scard et a]. v. Davis et al.]

And also the deposition of George Heyl of the city of Philadelphia, notary public, who swears, that on th% 17th day of
January 1803, at the request of Stephen Sicard, he made corredt copies of the deeai from Phillips to Stephens, and Stephene to Marshall, and from Marshall to Sicard: that the
copies made by him were from the original deeds, and that he
had certified the copies under his seal of office. Sicard told
him at the time, he was going to send the originals to Kentucky to be recorded; and assigned this as the motiveto have
the copies made. The deeds had every appearance of originals. That he had a knowledge of the signature of Hilary
Baker, the mayor of the city, before whom they were proved,
and of the seal of the city, and believed them genuine: that
in the spring of the year 1818, the said Stephen Sicard again
called on him and took his deposition before alderman Douglass, at his (the alderman's) office in this city, to the above
fact; to which deposition were annexed the said three notarial
certified copies, and a mandate from the seventh circuit court
of the United States for the Kentucky district to the said
Douglass, to take the same-all of which this deponent understood were transmitted to the said court: and that the annexed
two copies of deeds, so certified by the clerk of said court, to
the best of his knowledge and belief, are copies of his said notarial copies of hiis said originals.
'he deposition of George Rozell, to prove the death of Joseph Phillips in 1798, and who were his heirs at law; and also
the decease of Stephens, in the same or thewfollowing year, was
exhibited.
The defendants gave in evidence patents from the commonwealth of Kentucky, of junior date to that read by the
plaintiff; proved the boundaries of thosd junior grants, and that
they included the defendants: and gai e evidenee that they had
settled under faith of those junior patents, and held adversely
to the patent offered in evidence by the plaintiff. On motion
of the defendants, the court rejected the copies of the deeds
aforesaid from Phillips to Stephens, and from Stephens to
Marshall, and from Marshall to Sicard; because there was no
proof of the execution of the deeds from Phillips to Stephens,
or from Stephens to Marshall, so as to let in copies of the original deeds.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Lessee of Siexrd'et al. v. Davis et aQ.

The defendants then proved, that in the year 1794 they
had adverse possession of the land in controversy, and had
continued ever since to hold it adversely accordingly. Whereupon the defendants moved the court to instruct the jury, as
follows:
1. That the plaintiff has given no evidence to support the
first count, upon the demise of Sicard, and none to support the
demise from any of the other lessors; except from such as are
heirs of Josph Phillips, the patentee.
2. That if the jury find from the evidence that the patents
of Joseph Phillips and William Loving do interfere and lap,

as represented on the connected plat, and that the defendants
and those under whom they hold did enter, claiming under
said Loving's survey, and took the first possession within the
said interference, the said patent of Joseph Phillips being (at
the date of such entry and possession taken under Loving's
patent) unoccupied by any person holding or claiming under
said Phillips's patent; then and in that case the possession of the
defendants so taken was not limited to their actual inclosure,
but was co-extensive with the boundaries by which they
claimed.
3. That if the jury find from the evidence, that the possession of the lands in controversy was taken in the lifetime of
Joseph Phillips, the ancestor of the lessor of the plaintiff, and
adversely to said Phillips, and that the defendants and those
under whom they hold have continued to hold adversely to
said Phillips, the ancestor and his heirs, ever since and for
more than twenty years before the 17th day of January 1822,
when the second count in the declaration was filed, and shall
moreover find that said ancestor Joseph Phillips died more
than ten years before the said 17th day of January 1822, when
the second count was filed, then the said lessors, the heirs of
Joseph Phillips, are barred by the statute of limitations.
The circuit court gave these instructions to the jury on the
prayer of the defendants.
The case was argued by Mr Sergeant, for the plaintiff in
error; and by Mr Wickliffe, for the defendants.
For the plaintiff it was contended:
That the court erred, 1. In rejectingthe copies of the deeds
VOL. VI._R

SUPREME COURT.
LLessee of Sicard et a]. v. Davis et al.]

from Phillips to Stephens, from Stephens to Marshall, and
from Marshall to Sicard.
2. In charging that the possession taken by the defendants,
under Loving's survey, was not limited to their actual inclosure, but was co-extensive with the boundaries by which they
claimed.
3. In charging that the statute of limitations barred, if there
had been adverse possession for more than twenty years before
the 17th of January 1822, when the second count in the declaration was filed.
Mr Wickliffe, for the defendants, argued,
1. The plaintiff failed to show any title in Sicard at the date
of the demise.
2. The copies of deeds from Phillips, &c. were correctly
excluded, because the same were not legally proven in court
upon the tfial; nor had the same been proved and recorded in
accordance with or within the time prescribed by the laws
then in force in Kentucky.
3. If recorded or proven, the deeds conveyed no title, were
inoperative and against law; the land conveyed being at the
date of the said deeds in the adverse legal possession of the
defendants.
4. If the plaintiff showed title in the heirs of the patentee,
Joseph Phillips, that title was not asserted by the heirs of Phillips against the defendants until the January term 1822, when
the amended declaration was filed; consequently their right
was barred by the statute of limitations, both of twenty years'
adverse possession, and seven years' adverse possession with
title.
Mr Chief Justice MAR5s.&LL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment in ejectment brought
by the plaintiffs in error against the defendants in the court of
the United States for the seventh circuit and district of Kentucky. The declaration was delivered to the defendants in
March 1815. The declaration contains'a single count on the
:demise of Stephen Sicard.
In November term 1821, the plaintiff obtained leave to

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Lessee of Sicard et al. v. Davis et al.]

amend his declaration by laying a demise in the names of the
heirs of the original grantee of the commonwealth, or intermediate grantees; which amended declaration was filed. The
issues were joined in the usual form, and a jury sworn who
found a verdict for the defendants, on which judgment was
rendered by the court.
At the trial the plaintiff gave in evidence to the jury the
patent to Joseph Phillips, and proved that it covered the land
in controversy, and that the defendants were in adverse possession at the time of the commencement of this suit. He
also offered in evidence copies of deeds which purported to
convey the title from the patentee to Benjamin Stephens, from
Stephens to Samuel Robert Marshall, and from Marshall to
the plaintiff. The deed from Phillips to Stephens, dated the
16th day of October 1797, is attested by three subscribing
witnesses, and the deed from Stephens to Marshall, dated the
25th day of December 1797, is attested by two subscribing
witnesses. Each deed was proved by one of the subscribing
witnesses thereto in June 1798, before Hilary baker, mayor
of the city of Philadelphia, who gave his official certificate
thereof in the usual form. The deed from Marshall to the
plaintiff, Sicard, dated the 25th day of May 1798, is attested
by two subscribing witnesses, and is acknowledged by the
grantor before the mayor of :Philadelphia in July 1798, who
has given his official certificate thereof. These deeds were
admitted to record on this testimony in April 1803, in the
court of appeals in Kentucky.
To prove the loss of the originals, the plaintiff produced
the receipt of Alexander Parker, dated the 9th of February
1803, acknowledging the receipt of the said deeds for the purpose of being recorded in the office at Frankfort in Kentucky;
also the affidavit of the said Parker stating his receipt, and
the purpose for which the deeds were delivered to him; as
also' that he had caused them to be recorded. Some time after
this, being admitted to record, he was directeu by Sicard to
send them to him in Philadelphia. Some time before August
1804, he applied to Thomas Wallace to carry them, who undertook to do so, and directed him to leave them with the
clerk of the said Wallace that evening. The affiant inclosed
the three deeds in a sheet of paper directed to the said Sicard.

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Sicard et al. v. Davis et al.]

which he delivered that evening to the said Wallace's clerk, hc
believes William Scott, who promised to deliver them to the
said Wallace. The affiant has never seen them since, but
has heard that they were lost. He believes the deeds to have
been originals. He paid the taxes on said six thousand six
hundred and eighty acres of land for several years, and saw it
entered for taxation in the auditor's office. He believes that
the said William Scott departed this life twelve or fifteen years
ago. The plaintiff also produced the affidavit or deposition of
Thomas Wallace, who proved that Mr Alexander Parker did
say, that in the summer of 1803 he left at the store, or delivered to a young man (probably Mr Scott), then living with
the deponent, sundry papers said to be deeds, the property of
the said Sicard, to be carried from Lexington to Philadelphia
by the deponent. He knows nothing of the papers, nor does he
recollect ever to have seen them. He has searched for them
among his papers, but cannot find them. He verily believes
they were not delivered to him.
The plainiiff also produced the deposition of Mary Powell,
widow of Benjamin Powell, one of the subscribing witnesses to
the deed from Benjamin Stephens to Samuel Robert Marshall,
who deposed that she understood from her husband that he
had witnessed a deed from Stephens to Marshall; that he had
been dead about two years. Some time previous to his death,
he accompanied the plaintiff, Sicard, for the purpose of attesting the fact of his having subscribed the said deed as a witness;
and from several conversations which passed between the said
Sicard and her husband, in her presence, she is convinced her
husband had a perfect recollection of having subscribed his name
as a witness to the said deed. Also the deposition of Joseph
Spencer, the subscribing witness to the deed from Phillips to
Stephens, who proved the same before the mayor of Philadelphia in June 1798, who says, that he has some recollection of
having witnessed an instrument of writing supposed by him to
be a conveyance of land, he knew not to whom granted, at
the house of Jonathan Phillips, deceased, of Maidenhead, now
Lawrence township, Hunterdon county, state of New Jersey,
some twenty years ago or more (this deposition was taken in
April 1322); and of his meeting again one or more of the family, he believes Doctor Joseph Phillips of that place or neigh-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Lessee of Sicard et at. v. Davis et al.]

bourhood was one, in the city of Philadelphia, at the office ot
Htilary Baker, who was then mayor of the said city, to authenticate the hand-writing to the said instrument of conveyance
as party or witness, or both; but has no certain date in his
memory whereby he can be more particular. Also the deposition of George Heyl, notary public of Philadelphia, who
says, that he was called on in his official capacity on the 17th
of January 1803, to certify and attest to three several copies
of original deeds, one from Joseph Phillips to Benjamin Stephens, one from Stephens to Samuel Robert Marshall, Pnd the
third from Marshall to Stephen Sicard, dated the 05th of May
1798, all for a tract of land lying and being, &c., containing
six thousand six hundred and eighty acres; and that he did,
at the request of Stephen Sicard, examine and compare the
said three several copies with the original deeds submitted
to him by the said Stephen Sicard for that purpose, and found
them to be true and faithful copies of the same; that the said
deeds appeared to him, in every respect, originals, fair and
genuine papers, the parchment, ink, signatures, &c. wearing
that aspect. That the s. .d Stephen Sicard told him at the
time that his motive for requiring notarial copies of said originalsg, was that he was going to send said originals to Kentucky to be recorded. That the said deponent had a knowledge of the signature of Hilary Baker, the mayor of the city,
before whom they were proved, and of the seal of the city,
and believed them genuine; that in thespring of the year 1818
the said Stephen Sicard again called on him, and took his deposition before alderman Douglass to the above fact, to which
deposition were annexed the said three notarial copies.
The notarial copies mentioned in the foregoing deposition
agree with the copies from the record of the court of appeals
of Kentucky.
The plaintiff also offered as a witness the clerk of the court
of.appeals,.who deposed that the deeds had been recorded by
Thomas S. Hinde, his deputy, now living beyond the reach
of the process of this court; but he recollected to have noticed
them at the time, and they had, so far as he recollected, every
appearance of genuine documents. The plaintiff also introduced Ralph Phillips, who stated, that he was long acquainted
with Joseph Phillips, and Stephens, -and Marshall, and he

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Sicard et al. v. Davis et al.

heard them speak of the conveyance of the tract of land in
controversy, as made by Phillips to Stephens, and by Stephens
to Marshall, many years ago; but he does not recollect to have
seen the deeds.
The defendants gave in evidence patents of the commonwealth of junior date to that of the plaintiff; proved the boundaries of those junior grants, and that they included the defendants: and gave evidence that they had settled under faith
of those junior grants, and held adversely to the patent offered
in evidence by the plaintiff.
On motion of the defendants, the court rejected the copies
of the deeds aforesaid from Phillips to Stephens, and from
Stephens to Marshall, and from Marshall to Sicard; because
there was no proof of the execution of the deeds from Phillips
to Stephens, or from Stephens to Marshall, so as to let in
copies of the original deeds.
The defendants then proved that in the year 1794, they
had adverse pc ssession of the land in controversy, and had
continued ever since to hold it adversely. Whereupon the
defendants moved the court to instruct the jury,
i. That the plaintiff has given no evidence to support the
first count on the demise of Sicard; and none to support the
demise from any of the other lessors, except such as are heirs
of Joseph Phillips the patentee.
2. That if the jury find from the evidence that the patents
of Joseph Phillips and William Loving do interfere and lap,
as represented in the connected plat, and that the defendants
and those under whom they'hold did enter, claiming under
said Loving's survey, and took the first possession within the
said interference, the said patent of Joseph Phillips, being (at
the date-of such patent and possession taken under Loving's
patent) unoccupied by any person holding or claiming under
said Phillips's patent, then andmin that case, the possession of,
the defendants so taken, was not limited to their actual inclosure, but was co-extensive with the boundaries by which they
claimed.
3. That if the jury find from the evidence that the possession of the lands in controversy was taken in the lifetime of
Xoseph Phillips, the ancestor of the lessors of the plaintifi, and
adversely to said Phillips, and that the defendants and those

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Lessee of Sicard et al. v. Davis at al.]

under whom they hold, have continued to hold adversely to
said Phillips, the ancestor, and his heirs ever since, and for
more than twenty years before the 17th of January 1822, when
the second count in the declaration was filed, and shall moreover
find that said ancestor, Joseph Phillips, died more than ten
years before the said 17th of January 1822, when the second
count was filed; then the said lessors, the heirs of Joseph Phillips, are barred by the statute of limitations; which instructions
were given accordingly: to each of which instructions, as well
in excluding the deeds as in instructing the jury, the plaintiffs
excepted.
The first exception is to the refusal of the court to permit
the copies of deeds offered by the plaintiff to be given in evidence to the jury. These copies were rejected "because
there was no proof of the execution of the deeds from Phillips
to Stephens, or from Stephens to Marshall." This objection
would have applied to the originals as strongly as to the copies: consequently, we must inquire whether the plaintiff
offered such evidence of the execution of the originals as is
required by law.
In 1796 the legislature of Kentucky passed a law respecting
conveyances, the first section of which enacts, "that no estate
of inheritance or freehold, or for a term of more than five
years, in ands or tenements, shall be conveyed from one to
another, unless the conveyance be declared by writing, sealed
and delivered; nor shall such conveyance be good against a
purchaser for a valuable consideration, not having notice thereof, or any creditor, vnIess the same writing be acknowledged
by the party or parties who shall have sealed and delivered it,
or be proved by three witnesses to be his, her or their act, in
the office of the clerk of the court of appeals of a district court,
or in a court of quarter sessions or county court, in -the manner prescribed by law, or in the manner hereinafter directed,
within eight months after the time of scaling and delivering, and
be lodged with the clerk of such court to be there recorded."
The third section enacts that "if the party who shall sign
and seal any such writing, reside not in this commonwealth,
the acknowledgement by such party, or the proof by the number of witnesses requisite, of the sealing and delivering of the
writing before any court of law, or the mayor or other chief

SUPREME COURT.
rLessee of Sicard et al.v. Davis et al.]

magistrate of any city, town or corporation of the county in
which the party shall dwell, certified by such court, or mayor,
or chief magistrate, in the manner such acts are usually authenticated by them, and offered to the proper court to be recorded
within eight months after the sealing and delivering, shall be
as effectual as if it had been in the last mentioned court."
This act reduces into one the laws previously existing on
this subject. It does not create a right to convey property
which any individual may possess, but restrains that right by
certain rules which it prescribes, and which are deemed necessary for the public security. The original right to transfer
property remains unimpaired, except so far as it is abridged
by the statute.
How far does the statute restrain an individual in the exercise of this general original right?
The words are, "that no estate of inheritance, &c. in lands
or tenements, shall be conveyed from one to another, unless
the conveyance be declared by writing, sealed and delivered."
The only requisites then to a valid conveyance of an estate
of inheritance in lands are, that it shall be in writing, and shall
be sealed and delivered.
The statute proceeds, "nor shall such conveyance be good
against a purchaser for a valuable consideration, not having
notice thereof, or any creditor, unless the same writing be acknowledged," &d.
The acknowledgement or the proof which may authorise the
admission of the deed to record, and the recording thereof, are
provisions which the law makes for the security of creditors
and purchasers. They are essential to the validity of the deed,
as to persons of that description, not as to the grantor. Tiis
estate passes out of him and vests in the gralitee, so far as respects himself, as entirely, if the deed be in writing, sealed
and delivered, as-if it be also acknowledged or attested and
proved by three subscribing witnesses, and recorded in the
proper court. In a suit between them, such a deed is completely executed, and would be conclusive, although never admitted to record, nor attested by any subscribing witness.
Proof of sealing and delivery would alone be required, and the
acknowledgement'of the fact by the party, would be sufficient
proof of it.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Lessee of Sicard et a]. v. Davis et al.]

If the original deed remained in existence, proof of the hand
writing, added to its being in possession of the grantee, would,
it is presunwd, be prima facie evidence that it was sealed and
delivered. No reason is perceived why such evidence should
not be as satisfactory in the case of a deed as fn the case of a
bond. But the deed is lost, and positive proof of the handwriting is not to be expected or required. The grantee must
depend on other proof.
The deed purports to have been executed more than thirty
years past. The mayor of Philadelphia, the person entrusted'
by law with receiving and certifying the acknowledgement or
proof of the deed, has certified in legal form that it was proved
to him by one of the subscribing witnesses. Had it been also
proved by the other two, the probate would have been sufficient; not only as against the party, but as against purchasers
and creditors. It has remained from the time of its execution
until its loss, in the possession of those claiming title under it;
and in the long course of time which has elapsed since itsalleged execution, the grantor has never controverted its existence, nor set up any title to the property it purported to
convey. Parker, the agent of the plaintiff, respecting this
transaction, as is'presumed, though not averred in terms, from
the facts that he brought the deeds from Philadelphia, procured
theni to be recorded, and took measures for returning them to
him; says that he saw them entered for taxation in the auditor's
office, and paid the taxes on them for several years. Samuel
Robert Marshall, the grantee of Stephens, and who-conveyed
the land afterwards to Sicard by a deed regularly authenticated
and recorded, which recites the deed from Phillips, and conveys the land with general warranty, is a subscribing witness
to that executed by Phillips. The notary, who at the instance
of Sicard took notarial copies before the deeds were transmitted to Kentucky to be recorded; deposes that the appearance of the originals was perfectly fair.
Add to these strong circumstances, the testimony which after
,the long lapse of time the plaintiff has been enabled to procure.
Phillips and Stephens have been long dead; Marshall has conveyed the land to Sicard with a general warranty, by a deed
regularly authenticated and recorded, and is of course, if alive,
disqualified as a witness. One witness deposes that he was
VOL. VI.-S

SUPREME COURT.
ELessee of Sicard et al. v. Davis et al.]

long acquainted with Joseph Phillips and Stephens and Marshall, that he heard them speak of the conveyance of the tract
of land in controversy as made by Phillips to Stephens, and
by Stephens to Marshall. Joseph Spencer, the subscribing
witness to the deed made by Phillips, who proved its execution before the mayor of Philadelphia, has some recollection
of having witnessed an instrument of writing, supposed by
him to be a conveyance of land, at the house of Jgnathan Phillips deceased, twenty years or more before giving his deposition, and of meeting again one or more of the family, he believes doctor Joseph Phillips was one, in the city of Philadelphia, at the office of Hilary Baker, mayor of the city, to
authenticate the hand 'writing to the said instrument of conveyance, as party or witness, or both. Although he does not
recollect the transaction with that precision which might be
expected from an interested party, he remembers as much as
could be expected after so long an interval from an unconcerned person, and enough, we think, to satisfy a court, in
connexion with other circurstances, thpt thi deed to which
he subscribed his name as a witness was executed, and is the
deed, a copy of which was offered by the plaintiff. He remembers attesting an instrument of writing at the house of
Jonathan Phillips, which he believed to be a conveyance of
land; he remembers meeting some of the family, one of whom
was Joseph Phillips, at the office of Hilary Baker, mayor of
Philadelphia, for the purpose of authenticating the same instrument. This instrument was authenticated by him before
the mayor, as appears by his certificate. The deposition of
the widow of Benjamin Powell, too, is entitled to consideration.
We think that in a contest between Joseph Phillips and
Stephen Sica~d, this testimony and these circumstances would
have been held sufficient to prove the execution bf his deed;
and would have proved that his title was conveyed by it.
If the title of Phillips was conveyed to Sicard, then Sicard
could assert that title in a court of justice as effectually as
Phillips might assert it; unless the defendants were protected
from his claim by some provision of the statute. The first
section, after declaring that no estate of inheritance, &c. "in
lands Or tenerffents shall be conveyed from one to another,

JANUARY TERM 183 o .
[Lessee of Sicard et al. v. Davis et al.]

unless the conveyance be declared by writing, sealed and delivered," adds, "nor shall such conveyance be good against a
purchaser for valuable consideration, not having notice thereof,
or any creditor, unless the same writing be acknowledged," &c.
These words, we think, can apply only to purchasers of the
title asserted by virtue of the conveyance, and to creditors of
the party who has made it. They protect such purchasers
from a conveyance of which they had no notice, and which, if
known, would have prevented their making the purchase; because it would have informed them that the title was bad, that
the vendor had nothing to sell. But the purchaser from a different person of a different title, claimed under a different patent, would be entirely unconcerned in the conveyance. To
him it would be entirely unimportant, whether this distinct
couflicting title was asserted by the original patentee or by his
vendee. The same general terms areapplied to creditors and
to purchasers; and surely the word creditors ean mean only
creditors of the vendor.
This construction of this part of the statute has, we believe,
been uniformly made.
A conveyance then in writing, sealed and delivered by the
vendor in each case, was sufficient to pass the title from Phillips to Stephens, and from Stephens to Marshall. The conveyance from Marshall to Sicard is unexceptionable.
If the original deeds had been produced, their execution
was, we think, so proved, that they ought to have been submitted to the jury. If this be correct, it cannot be doubted
that the copies were admissible. The loss of the originals is
proved incontestably, and the truth of the copies is beyond
question.
We think, therefore, that the court erred "in rejecting the
copies of the deeds from Phillips to Stephens, and from Stephens to Marshall, and from Marshall to Sicard." Consequently, the first instruction to the jury, "that the plaintiff
has given no evidence to support the first count on the demise of Sicard," ought not to have been given.
The second instruction, that a possession taken under a junior
patent, -which ihterferes with a senior patent, the lands covered by which are totally unoccupied by any person holding or claiming under it, is not limited by the actual inclo-

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Sicard et al. v. Davis et al

sure, but is co-extensive with the boundaries claimed under
such junior patent, is entirely correct, and conforms to the decisions of this court.
The third instruction is also correct. The second count in
the declaration, being on a demise from a different party asserting a different title, is not distinguishable, so far as respects the
bar of the act of limitations, from a new action. See Miller's
Heirs v. M'Intyre, at this term. The construction of the act
of limitations, that if adverse possession be taken in the life
tithe of the ancestor, and be continued for twenty years, and
for ten years after the death of the ancestor, no entry being
made by the ancestor or those claiming under him, the title is
barred, is established by the decisions of this court as well as
of the courts of Kentucky. 4 Whoat. 213. This point may
perhaps determine the cause ultimately in favour of the defendants. But as this court cannot know judicially that the
;verdict of the jury was founded on the bar created by the adverse possession of the defendants, and not on the want of title
in the plaintiffs, whose title deeds were excluded by the circuit court; the judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to award a venire facias de novo.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel; on considerstion whereof, this Court is of opinion, that there is error in
the proceedings and judgment of the said court in this, that
the said court rejected the copies of the deeds offered by the
plaintiffs as evidence, being of opinion that there was no proof
of the execution of two of them. Therefore it is considered
by the Court, that the juogment of the said circuit court be
reversed and annulled, and that the cause be remanded to the
said circuit court with directions to award a venire facias de
novo.

