JANUARY TERM 1832.

HuGH

BOYLE, COMPLAINANT AND APPELLANT V. JAMES W.
ZACAARIE AND SAMUEL H. TuRNER.

Z. and T. were merchants at New Orleans; B. was a resident merchant at Baltimore. B. in 1818, the owner of the ship Fabius, sent her to -NewOrleans, consigned to Z. and Tr who procured a freight for her, and the ship having been at.
tached for a debt due by B. in New Orleans, Z. and T. in order to release her,
and enable her to proceed on her voyage, became security for the debt, and were
obliged to pay the same by the judgment of a court in New Orleans. B. on
being informed that Z. and T. had become security for his debt, approved of
the same, and promised to indemnify them for any loss they might sustain.
On the 23d December 1819, Z. and T. instituted a suit against B. in the circuit court of Maryland, for the recovery of the sum paid by them; and in the
same month B. made application for the-benefit of the insolvent act of Maryland, and received a discharge under the same. In May 1821, a judgment
was rendered, by confession, in the suit in favour of Z. and T. for three thousand one hundred and thirteen dollars. And by consent of the parties a memorandum was entered of record: ' this judgment is subject to the legal operation
of the defendant's discharge under the insolvent laws of Maryland." By the
court; the sole effect of this agreement is to save to the party whatever rights
he may claim fom the legal operation of the insolvent laws of the state of
Maryland. It neither admits their validity, nor varies any rights of Z. and T.
if they are entitled to them.
The agreement of B. to indemnify Z. and T. is not in contemplation of law a
Mary land contract, but a Louisiana contract, by which B. undertook to pay
the money in the place where Z. and T. resided, and not in Mar nd. The
agreement o Z. and T. by which they procured the relief of the ship Fabius,
was within their authority as consignees of the ship.
Such a contract would be understood by all the parties to be a contract made in
he place where the advance was to be made; and the payment, unless other.
wise stipulated, would also be understood to be made there. The case would
in this aspect fall directly within the authority of Lanusse v. Barker, 3 Wheat.
Rep. 101,146.
The effect of a discharge under an insolvent law of a state, is at rest, so far as it
depends on the antecedent decisions made by this court. The ultimate opin.
ion delivered by Mr justice Johnson, in the case of Ogden v. Saunders, 12
Wheat. 213, 258, was concurred in and adopted by the three judges who were
inthe minority on the general question of the constitutionality of state insolvent laws. So far then as decisions upon the subject of state insolvent laws
have been made by this court, they are to be deemed final and conclusive.

APPEAL from the circkit court of the United States for the
district of Maryland.
The bill filed by the appellant in the circuit court, stated,
among other matters, that certain persons at New Orleans,
trading under the firm of Vincent, Nolte & Co. having attached

SUPREME COURT.
[Boyle v. Zacharie and Turner.]

a brig belonging to the plaintiff, for a debt alleged by them to
be due from said plaintiff, and which brig was consigned to the
defendants, they the said defendants became security for the
complainant on the said attachment, and the same having been
ultimately decided against the complainant, the defendants
paid the amount of the debt and expenses, amounting to three
thousand one hundred and thirteen dollars and eighty cents.
That on the 31st day of December 1819, the complainant obtained a final discharge under the insolvent laws of Maryland;
and that afterwards, to wit, at the May term 1821 of the said
circuit court, the defendants obtained a judgment against him
for the said sum of three thousand one hundred and thirteen
dollars and eighty cents, which judgment was entered upon
the docket of said court, and agreed to be so received, subject
to the legal operation of the discharge of the complainant
under the said insolvent laws of Maryland. That execution
bad been sued out upon said judgment, and a writ of fieri
facias had been placed in the bands of the marshal of the district, with directions to levy the same on property acquired by
the complainant subsequently to his so obtaining his final discharge under the insolvent laws aforesaid, notwithstanding the
said entry on the docket of its being confessed, and the confession being received, subject to the legal operation of the
insolvent laws of Maryland. That besides the above facts, the
defendants had also caused to be issued out of some court in
Louisiana, an attachment upon the same debt or claim, against
the complainant, and had laid the said attachment in the hands
of persons indebted to the complainant in a large amount,
which persons had refused to pay any part of the debts due by
them to the complainant, in consequence of the laying of said
attachment in their hands. The bill further stated, that by
the provisions of the insolvent laws of Maryland, the complainant was entitled to be protected in the enjoyment of all
property acquired by him since the date of his discharge under
the said insolvent laws; except such as he might have acquired
by gift, descent, or in his own right by bequest, devise or in
any course of distribution; and that he had not .since his discharge aforesaid, acquired any property in any of the modes
thus specified. And further, that no property whatever of
which the complainant waG possessed, or to vhich he had any

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Boyle v. Zacharie and Tumer.]

title, could be lawfully taken in execution under the said judgment, until a scire facias, containing proper averments of the
acquisition of property by him in some one of the above mentioned modes, should be first issued, and the facts found to be
true, either by confession, or by verdict of a jury, or otherwise according to law. And the bill prayed an injunction to
be granted restraining and prohibiting the defendants from
levying their execution: and the injunction to that effect wag
granted and served in due form.
The answer of the defendants, the appellees, stated that in
the latter part of the year 1818, the complainant consigned to
them at New Orleans a brig called the Fabius, and that they
procured a freight for her to Liverpool; that after the cargo
was actually laden on board of her, and she was about to sail,
she was attached -t the suit of Vincent, Nolte and Company,
for a debt due to them by the complainant, and they, the defendants, and one Richard Relff, with a view to the benefit of
the complainant, became security for the complainant and procured the release of the brig. The complainant approved of
their acts, and undertook and promised to indemnify them for
any loss they might sustain on his account. He afterwards
gave the defendants a security for their liability, on the 1st day
of May 1819.
The contract of indemnity was as follows: "I will see
Messrs Zacharie and Turner paid whatever sum they have to
pay Vincent, Nolte and Company, on account of a bill drawn
by them on Hugh Boyle for disbursements of the ship Mohawk,
original bill amount, five thousand four hundred and fifty-one
dollars, of which the said Hugh Boyle paid three thousand dollars: the balance, the said Hugh Boyle contends, is not due to
Vincent, Nolte and Co. When decided it shall be paid.
"Baltimore, 1st May 1810."
Hugh Boyle, the complainant, and Lemuel Taylor, soon
after this circumstance, became insolvent, and the defendants
afterwards paid to Vincent, Nolte and Company, the-sum of
three thousand one hundred and thirteen dollars and eighty'
cents, the amount of the judgment obtained by them against
the complainant.
The defendants further stated that they afterwards instituted

SUPREME COURT.
[Boyle v. Zacharle and Tumer.]

a suit in the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Maryland against the complainant, and obtained judgment
against him for the amount so paid by them on his account,
and proceeded thereon as stated in the complainant's bill.
They say that the discharge of the complaipant, by the insolvent laws of "the state of Maryland, does not prevent their
having the full benefit of the execution issued against the
eonrplainant's property, which has "been acquired to a large
amount since the discharge, all of which is liable for the pay-nent of his debts.
Tlhe court granted the injunction as prayed for
The answer admits the issuing of the attachments in New
Orleans against the supposed property of the complainant, but
states that the defendants in the same denied having any 'funds,
and the proceedings were dismissed.
On the 19th of May 1829 the cause was set down for final
hearing in the circuit court, and after argument it was decreed
that the injunction should be dissolved; and the complainant's
bill was dismissed. From this decree the complainant appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr Wirt, for the appellant; and
by Mr Scott, for the appellees.
For the appellant it was contended:
1. That the appellant having been finally discharged under
an insolvent law of the. state of Maryland, passed and in force
at a period of time previous to the-making of the contract on
which the suit at law, was instituted, the injunction properly
issued for restraining the further execution of process which
bad been levied upon property acquired by the plaintiff in
error, subsequently to his said diseharge; and that the decree
passed upon a final hearing ought not to have dissolved said
injunction.
. 2. That the insolvent law of Maryland, although it discharged both the person of the debtor, and his acquisitions
of property made after his discharge under the law, is not a
law impairing. the obligation of contracts, so far as respects
4ebts contracted subsequent to the passage of such law, provided such contract was to be executed or performed in the
state of Maryland.

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Boyle v. Zacharie and Tamer.]

3. That the bill and answer, and.the proceedings filed with
them, show that this contract was to be executed or performed
in the state of Maryland; and that if these proceedings left the
fact doubtful as to the place where the contract was to be performed, the injunction should have been continued for further
proof.
4. That the court of chancery ought to have referred it to a
commissioner to inquire and report, whether the complainant
had or had not sustained injury by the attachments in'New
Orleans.
It was argued for the appellant, that the.creditors of Boyle
had submitted to the insolvent laws of Maryland by instituting
the suit in that state, and by the terms in which the judgment
was entered. Cited, Clay v. Smith, 3 Peters, 411.
Maryland was the place of the contract, or Where, at least,
it was to be performed. It was immaterial where the contract
was made, if it was to be performed in Maryland.
As to the rule in fixing-the place of the contract, Lanusse v.
Barker, 3 Wheat.; De Wolf v. Johnson, 10 Wheat; 7 Harris
and Johnson, 399, were cited.
The contract in this case was not consummated until it was
ratified by Boyle in Maryland. The consignees had become
security for the cdnsignor, an act not within the scope of their
authority, and not binding. on the consignor until he ratified
it. As therefore the contract was not complete until confirmed, and as this was done in Maryland, it was a Maryland
contract. If the app-llees had not given the security to enable
the brig to proceed, they would not have been liable for neglecting it.
This is the general rule as to all contracts growing out of
correspondence. The place of payment contemplated was
Baltimore. It was there that the same was to be carried into
execution. Cited, Huberus de Conflictu Legum; 3 Dall. 374,
note; Big. Dig.; 3 Mass. Rep. 77; 5 Mass. Rep. 509; 6 Mass.
157T; 12 Mass. 4; 2 Mass. 84; 13 Mass. 153; 15 Mass. 354.
If the contract had been made in New Orleans, aft so con-,
sidered by ihe appellees, it would have borne interest at the
rate of ten per cent. But the declaration states it to have been
made-in Maryland, and the rate of interest is that of Mary-

SUPREME COURT.
[Boyle v. Zacharie and Tumer.]

]and. This is an admission, that it was a Maryland contract;
and therefore to be regulated by her laws. This is equivalent
to suing in a state court; and the question in the case will turn
on the construction of the agreement by which fhe judgment
was entered.
It is considered, that the takingof thejudgment in the form in
which it was entered, was an agreement that the parties should
be bound by the law of Maryland; and would take only what
that law gives, and, according to the operation of the law.
It is a common practice in Maryland to take a judgment in
a suit against one who has been discharged as an insolvent
debtor, subject to the discharge. This is equivalent to that
practice. Mr Scott, for the appellees, assumed, that this case having
been set down for final hearing by the complainant upon the
bill and answers, the facts set forth in the answers must be
taken as true; and he relied on the case of Leeds v. Marine
Insurance Company of Alexandria, 2 Wheat. 380, 383.
He also contended, that the discharge of Boyle, under the
insolvent laws of Maryland, did not affect the right of the
plaintiffs at law to a judgment, or to an execution upon that
judgment; because the act of the general assembly of Maryland, passed at December session 1816, ch. 221, see. 5, which
gtantsa final discharge to insolvent debtors, was a law impairing the obligation of contracts, and in violation of the first
article, tenth seetionof the constitution of the United States.
He relied upon the following authorities, Lanusse v. Barker, 3 Wheat. 102, 146; Consequa v. Fanning, 3 Johnson's
Cases, 610; Thompson v. Ritcham, 8 Johnson's Rep. 189,
193; Blanchard v. Russell, 13 Mass. Rep. 18; Coolidge v.
Poor, 15 Mass. Rep. 427, for the purpose of showing lex loci
cntraclus- and also upon Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat.
122. 197, 193; M'Millanv. M'Neill, 4 Wheat. 209; Farmers
and Mechanics Bank of Pennsylvania v. Smith, 6 Wheat, 131 ;
Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, as to the validity of the
discharge. And he contended that the memorandum made
upon the judgment, ",subject to the legal operation of the defendant's discharge under the insolvent laws of Maryland,"
gave to Boyle no other benefit from his discharge, than if it

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Boyle v. Zacharie and Turner.]

had been pleaded at length; and that the discharge was no relea~e to Boyle from the claim of the defendants.
He also contended, that the attachments, mentioned in the
proceedings in the cause, formed no bar to the right of the
plaint;ffs at law to an execution upon their judgment; and he
relied on Runer v. Marshal, 1 Wheat. 215; Bowne v. Joy, 9
Johnson, 221; Wash v. Durkin, 12 Johnson, 99. And in reply
to the fourth point of the appellant's counsel c6 that the court
of chancery ought to have referred it to a commissioner to inquire and report whether the complainant had sustained injury
by the attachments at New Orleans," he showed by the answer of the defendants, that the-proceedings in the attachment,
laid in the hands of Breedlove, Bradford and Robinson, had
been instituted at the instance and request of Boyle himself;
and that, in that case, and also in the proceedings in the attachment against Ambrose Nelson, there were no funds in the
hands of the garnishees liable to be affected by those proceedings. He also contended that Boyle had sustained no injury
by those proceedings, and that there was no evidence upon
which the appellant could rely, to show that he had been injured by them; and that even if he had been injured, that his
remedy was before another tribunal, and not in a court of
equity; and that he must establish the quantum of injury in a
court of law before he could claim a set off on that account in
a court of equity; and that the appellant was without any defence; and that the injunction was properly dissolved, and the
bill dismissed.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree in equity to the circuit court
for the district of Maryland, dismissing the bill of the plaintiff,
now appellant.
The material circumstances are as follows. Zacharie and
Turner are, and at the time of the transactions hereafter to
be stated were, resident merchants at New Orleans, and Boyle
a resident merchant at Baltimore. In the year 1818, Boyie
being the owner of the brig Fabius, sent her on a voyage to
New Orleans, consigned to Zacharie and Turner, where she
arrived and landed her cargo, and Zacharie and Turner procured a freight for her to Liverpool. After the cargo wasput
VOL. VI.-4 F

SUPREME COURT.
[Boyle v. Zacharle and Turner.]

on board, and the brig was ready to sail, she was attached by
process of law, at the suit of Messrs Vincent, Nolte and Co. of
New Orleans, as the property of Boyle, for a debt due by him
to them. Zacharie and&Turner, with one Richard Relff, with
a view to benefit Boyle, and enable the brig to perform her
voyage, became security for Boyle upon the attachment, and
thus procured the release of, the brig. Upon information of
the facts, Boyle approved of their conduct, and promised to
indemnify therm for any loss they might sustain on that account.
Messrs Vincent, Nolte and Co. recovered judgment in their
suit, and Zacharic and Turner were compelled to pay the debt
and expenses, amounting to three thousand one hundred and
thirteen dollars and thirty cents; and afterwards, on the 23d
of December 1819, they instituted a suit against Boyle for the
recovery of. the same, in the circuit court of Maryland. On
the 31st of the same month of December 1819, Boyle made
application for the benefit of the insolvent act of Maryland, of
1816, ch. 228, and eventually received a discharge under the
same. On the 1st of May 1821, judgment by confession was
rendered in the suit, in favour of Zacharie and Turner, for
the sum of three thousand one hundred and thirteen dollars
and eighty cents, with interest from the 15th of November
1819, and costs of suit; and a memorandum was entered of
record, by consent'of the parties,, as fdllows, "this judgment
subject to the legal operation of the defendant's discharge
under the insolvent laws of Maryland."
The judgment
having remained unexecuted for more than a year, it was revived by a scire facias; and writs of fieri facias were issued,
and renewed from time to time, until the 12th of December
1827, when a fieri facias was d6livered to the marshal, who
levied it on the ship General Smith, belonging to Boyle, on
the 31st of M~arch 1828; and returned it to the May term of
the circuit court of the same year.
T~e bill of the plaintiff was filed on the 7th of April 1828,
and stated most of the preceding facts; and prayed for an injunction to the further proceedings to enforce the execution of
thejudgment, and for general relief. The grounds relied on
by the plaintiff, for this purpose, were first, that his property
is exempted from the levy, by his discharge under the insolvent act; secondly, that he is entitled to credit for certain corn-

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Boyle v. Zacharde and Tuner.]

missions accruing to him for certain business done for Zacharie
since the judgment, and agreed to be deducted therefrom; and
thirdly, for the amount of losses sustained by the plaintiff in
consequence of Zacharie and Turner having caused certain
attachments for the same debt to be issued in Louisiana against
the property of the plaintiff in the hands of certain debtors of
the plaintiff in that state. An injunction issued on the bill; on
the 8th of the same April.
The answer of the ,defendants (now appellees) having come
in, the cause was set down for a hearing on the bill and answer (by which the facts stated in the answer must be taken
to be true); and it was decreed by the court that the injunction be dissolved, and the bill dismissed without costs. From
that dccree the present appeal has been taken to this court.
The first point presented for argument, and indeed that
which was the principal ground of the appeal, is as to the
effect of the discharge under the insolvent act. This question
is of course at rest, so far as it is covered by the antecedent
decisions made by this court. The ultimate opinion delivered
by Mr Justice Johnson in the case of Ogden v. Saunders; 12
Wheat. 213, 358, was concurred in and adopted by the three
judges, who were in the minority upon the general question
of the constitutionality of state insolvent laws, so largely discussed in that case. it is proper to make his.remark, in order
to remove an erroneous impression of the bar, that it was his
single opinion, and not of the three other Judges who concurred in the judgment. So far then, as deci-;ions upon the
subject of state insolvent laws have been made by this court,
they are to be deemed final and conclusive.
It has been suggested that the memorandum of agreement
accompanying the judgment, that it should be "subject to the
legal operation of the insolvent laws of Maryland," ought to
be deemed an acquiescence on the part of Zacharic and Turner,
in the -validity of that discharge, or at least a waiVer of any
claim in repugnance to it. We do not think so. The sole
effect of that agreement is to save to the party whatever rights
he may claim from 'he legal operation of those laws. It neither admits their validity, nor waives any rights of Zacharie
and Turner, if they are unconstitutional.
It has in the next place been argued, that the contract upon

SUPREME COURT.
[Boyle v. Zacharie and Turner.]

which the judgment is founded, is, in contemplation of law, a
Maryland contract; and not a Louisiana contract; that Boyle
undertook to pay the money in the place where he resided, and
not in the place where Zacharie and Turner resided. Our opinion is, that this argument cannot be maintained. We do not
admit, that the original undertaking of Zacharie and Turner
in giving security in behalf of Boyle, was an unauthorised act,
and beyond the scope of their just authority, as consignees of
the Fabius. It was an act obviously done for the benefit of
Boyle, and indispensable to enable the vessel to perform her
voyage; and naturally implied from the relation of the parties,
as owner aid consignees. It must have been intended by the
owner, that the consignees were to be at liberty to do any act
for his benefit which was or might be required in order to
despatch the vessel on the voyage. And Boyle himself
seems to have admitted this to be true; for in the answer of
Zaenarie and Turner (which is evidence in the cause), it is
expressly stated that Boyle, "so far from disapproving of the
acts of these defendants, as above stated, thanked them for
their prompt and correct management of his business, and undertook and promised to indemnify them from any loss which
they might sustain on his account." Now that could scarcely
be deemed a prompt and correct management of the business
of the. principal, which was wholly beyond the scope of the
authority delegated to the agents. In this view of the matter,
the contract of indemnity would clearly refer for its execution
to Louisiana; as much so as if Boyle had authorised Zacharie
and Turner to advance money there on his account, for which
he would repay them. Such a contract would be understood
by all parties to be a contract made in the place where the advance was to be made; and the payment, unless otherwise stipulated, would also be understood to be made there. The case
would, in this aspect, fall directly within the authority of
Lanusse v. Barker, 3 Wheat. Rep. 101, 146; see also Coolidge
v. Poor, 15 Mass. Rep. 427; Consequa v. Fanning, 3 Johns.
Ch. Rep. 5&7.
But if the contract had been unauthorized, and beyond the
agency, still the subsequent ratification of the transaction
by Boyle would have the same operation, according .othe well
known maxim, that subsequent ratification is equivalent to a

JANUARY TERM 1832.

645

[Boyle v. Zacharie and Turner.]

prior order; and when made, it has relation back to the time
of the original transaction, and gives it as full a sanction as
if it had been done under an original authority. The ratification of this contract by Boyle was complete and perfect; and
he treated it as a Louisiana contract of indemnity, for his
benefit, by which he was bound, and which he ought to discharge in that state.
As to the credit for commissions, that is no longer relied
on; for the defendant's answer asserts distinctly that the amount
has been already credited.
As to the attachments, it is not very easy to ascertain the
grounds upon which Boyle attempts in his bill to assert an
equity. Assuming that a bill would lie to have an equitable
offset for unliquidated damages, occasioned by the misconduct
of the creditors in not prosecuting such attachments with due
diligence, where the debt has been lost by the insolvency of
the garnishee in the intermediate period (on which we desire
to be understood as expressing no opinion); still, there must
be sufficient facts alleged in the bill to justify a presumption
of loss. Now, in the present bill, there is no allegation whatsoever of any insolvency of the garnishees. The allegation as
to one attachment is, "whereby your orator has been deprived of the benefit of any part of the debt, now due by the
said Nelson (the garnishee), being somewhere about the sum
of fifteen hundred dollars, besides interest thereon, from the
said year, when the attachment aforesaid was laid, and which
sum is as completely lost to your orator, as if it had been paid
over to the said Zacharie and Turner; who, for aught your
orator knows, may have actually recovered the whole of it in
virtue of said attachment, and may have refused to give credit
for the same." And as to the other attachment, the allegation
is, "that they also attached property belonging to your orator,
which was in the hands of Messrs Breedlove and Bradford
(the garnishees), for which your orator has never received any
credit, although it has been thus far completely lost to him,
amounting, as he verily believes, to the sum of, &c. &c."1
So that the whole gravamen is, that the attachments have
hitherto prevented him from receiving the debts and interest
due from the garnishees. Under such circumstances, where
Boyle might at any time have relieved himself from the

SUPREME COURT.
[Boyle v. Zaeharie and Turner.]

effects of the attachment, by the payment of the debt due to
Zacharie and Turner; and where he has himself acquiesced in
the delay, without in any manner attempting to speed the
suits; and where no connivance or indulgence is pretended to
have existed in concert with the garnishees; and where there
is no allegation in the bill itself, of any undue delay in prosecutibig the attachments by the creditor, it is difficult to perceive any foundation on which to rest a claim for equitable
relief. But the answer of the defendants shows still more
forcible objections against the bill. This answer explicitly
avers, that in both of the attachments the garnishees denied
having any funds of Boyle in their possession, Nelson generally, and Breedlove, Bradford & Co. with the qualification,
any funds liable to the attachment; and the suits were dismissed accordingly. Copies of the proceedings are annexed to
the answer, which demonstrate (if it had been necessary), the
result of the averment; but it must be taken to be true, as the
hearing was u pon bill and answer.
It is added in the answer that the suit against Breedlove,
Bradford & Co. was commenced upon the information and
at the request of Boyle; so that it was not in mvitum; but
was ani arrest of his funds, upon his own suggestion, and
with his own consent. Surely a suit in chancery cannot be
maintained in a case so naked of all real equity. But it
is said that the answer of the garnishees, Breedlove, Bradford & Co. admits that they are indebted to the plaintiff.
But we must take that answer according to its terms and import; and if so, then the admission is qualified. It is as follows: "we do not consider ourselves in debt to Hugh Boyle,
or to Hugh Boyle & Co.; we received of Hugh Boyle & Co.
some property, which has been sold, and the proceeds, say
twelve or thirteen hundred dollars, placed to their credit on
our books; but one of the house holds a claim against Hugh
Boyle & Co. for upwards of twenty-five hundred dollars,
which amount he refused to admit as a credit to our partner,
but was willing to close Hugh Boyle & Co.'s account, by charging him and crediting the partner with the balance due said
Boyle, and in this way said balance was held to pay the
claim." They add, in an answer to another interrogatory,
"we have no property of the defendants in this case, nor do

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[Boyle v. Zacharle and Turner.]

we know of any." Now, it has not been shown at the argument, that in a process of this sort, under the local laws of
Louisiana, the debt due to one partner might not be a good
defence for the garnishees; and certainly the court cannot presume it. And, upon general principles, there can be little
doubt, that in a court of equity, in a suit.by Boyle seeking
relief, such a counter claim would or might, under eircum-,
stances, furnish a good defence, if not to the firm, at least to
the creditor partner, to rebut the claim of Boyle against him.
Where there is an express denial by the garnishees, setting
up an equity of any property in their hands liable to the attachment, that allegation ought to be presumed to be supported
by the local law appjicable to the facts, until the contrary is
explicitly established. But the decisive answer is, that asthis.
suit was commenced at the request of Boyle, and as the gar
nishees did not admit that they had property liable to the
attachment, the onus is on Boyle, to show, that, nevertheless,
by the local law the attachment might have been enforced.
He has failed to establish any such proposition.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the court, that the 4cree of the circuit court ought to be affirmed, with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the circuit court of the United States for.the district of Maryland, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this Court, that the
decree of the said circuit court in this cause .be,and the same
is hereby affirmed, with costs.

