JANUARY TERM 1832.

323

THE STATE or NEw JERSEY V. THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE
OF NEw YORK.
At January term 18U, an order was made, giving the state

of New York

leave to appear in this case on the second day of this term and answer the
complainants' bill; and if there should be no appearance, that the court would
proceed to hear the cause on the part of the complainants, and to decree on
the matter of the bill. On the first day of the term, a demurrer to the complainants' bill was filed, which was signed "Green C. Bronson, attorneygeneral of New York." No other appearance was entered on the part of the
defendants. By the court: the demurrer filed in th, case by the attorneygeneral of New York, he being a practitioner in this court, is considered as an
appearance for the state. If the attorney-general did not so mean it, it is not
a paper which can be considered as in the cause, or be.placed on the files of
the court.
Tle demurrer being admitted as containing an appearance by the state of New
York, it amounts to a compliance with the order of the court.
A demurrer is an answer in law to the bill, though not, in a technical sense, an'
answer according to the common language of practice.

MR FRELINGHUYSEN, with whom was Mr Wirt,
stated, that at the last court an order was made, giving the
state of New York leave to apppar on the second day of this
term and answer the bill of the complainants; and if there
should be no appearance, the. court would proceed to hear the
cause on the part of the complainants, and to decree on the
matter of the bill. 5 Peters, 291. Instead of appearing, the
state of New York has demurred; and this mode of proceeding
is resisted in a written argument, which is now handed to the
court.
Mr Beardsley stated, that he had filed and served the demurrer for the attorney-general of New York. He was not
counsel in this cause for New York, nor was any counsel, to
his knowledge, in the city who represented that state. The
attorney-general was not expected until the argument of the
demurrer should come on. As he had filed the demurrer as
agent for the attorney-general, be would, with the permission
of the court, make a few suggestions.,
He asked if the court would entertain a motion of this kind
without notice. The application is to take a paper off the files
of tl cou~rt, not to prevent its being filed. It has been filed

SUPREME COURT
[New Jersey v. New York.]

The attorney-general of New York, no doubt, considers the
demurrer as an appearance in the cause; although it contains a
suggestion that the court has no jurisdiction. Such a suggestion
must at all times be unobjectionable, but in this case it Was peculiarly proper; as this court, in granting the orderof the last term
observed, that. "the question of proceeding to a final decree
would be considered as not conclusively settled, until the cause
should come on to be heard in chief." The demurrer muit
have been intended as an appearance; and is one in its terms,
as will be seen by a reference to it.
It may be, that no appearance has been formally entered on
the minutes of the clerk: he had not looked at those minutes.
The entry of an appearance was mere form; and the filing of a
demurrer was ample authority for making such entry, if at all
necessary.
In England, thQ filing a demurrer is considered as an appearance in the cause. Upon this, the authorities, he supposed,
were uniform.
The terms of the demurrer show that it constitutes an appearance. It asserts 1hat the people of New York are not
bound to appear, and insists that they should not be prejudiced
by appearing. The conclusion prays "judgment," and "judgment whether any further answer should be required." This
is placing the case upon the judgment of the court; and must
be considered, from the very force and meaning of the terms,
as an appearance in the cause, and an authority to enter an appearance with the clerk.
The order of this court, which was granted at last term,
was that the people of the state of New York shall "appear"
and "canswer the bill of the complainant." That is, that they
shall appear and defend; and the court, tvy granting that rule,
did not intend to decide on the juri~diction ur the court in the
case, or to preclude the defendants frotn putting :p a demurrer,
if they thought proper to do so. The order was not intended
to discriminate, strictly, between an answer and a demurrer.
No rules have been established for regulating the course of
proceedings in such cases: the English rules may therefore be
appealed to and invoked. Why shall not this court permit a
demurrer to be flied? And why may not this form be purZ
sued, as well as a plea or answer, setting up matter of fact ?

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[New Jersey v. New York.]

The order of the court was not intended to -prevent the proceedings in the case being in any form which might be thought
proper, in order to present the question of jurisdiction and the
merits of the case. A demurrer admits all facts well stated in
te bill. Why require an answer, if the defendants are willing
to admit the facts alleged? Certainly the plaintiff should not
object. In New York, when a bill is filed, and process duly
served, the order is to appear and answer; and not that he
answer, demur or plead: such he supposed was "the order in
.the English ohancery. No one was ever defaulted in such
case, by reason of his filing a demurrer or plea instead of an
answer. -A demurrer is indeed an answer in law, and so
strictly and literally within the order.
If this is the interpretation of the rule granted at last term,
the demurrer is .a sufficient compliance with the rule. If it
requires the signature of a solicitor of this court, as such, it will
no doubt have such a signature: it is contended, however, that
the signature of the attorney-general, known by the records of
the court to be on bf its solicitors, is sufficient, although he
has not in terms signed as solicitor.
In a case like this, the signature of the attorney-general, as
such, ought to be abundantly sufficient; atd indeed it is the only
way in which a defence can properly be made. He is the law
officer of the state; the sole law officer of the state. Proce ,
in this cause was served on him as such law officer. Certainly,
then, the plaintiff should not object, that he is not authorised
to appear for New York; or that he should have signed as
olicitor, and not as attorney-genera. He 'has been recognized by the plaintiff, and by the court, as the proper law
officer of New York, to appear ahd defend this cause.
But if, by the strict rules of English practice, the filing of
the demurrer in its present form is not sufficieni, as this is a
new and a special case, the court will not enforce the rule
without notice; no disrespect on the part of The attorney-gene-ral could have been intended. By the English authorities it
will be seen that a defendant failing to appear, may aplear and
demur as well as answer, at any time until affected by process
of contempt. 3 Bro. Ch. Cases, 372; 10 Ves. 444.
Mr Beardsley said he had thusinterfered, without having been
authorised to act for the state of New York. Having been
"t

SUPREME COURT.
[New Jersey v. New York.]

requested by the attorney-general of New York to deliver the
demurrer to the clerk of the court, he had done so: and from
his knowledge of the views of the attorney-general, he felt
himself at liberty to say, that he designed to appear and argue
the demurrer, when reached on the calendar; although he
could not at all have anticipated an application like the present.
As he had not perused the written argument which had been
handed to the court, he could not suppose he had furnished
an answer to all its views; he, however, would not trouble the
court further.
Mr Freylinghuysen. The demurrer which is before the
court is an insulated paper. No one has been directed by the
authorities of New York to appear in this court: and no solicitor has appeared in the cause.
In truth, the very git of the question which is presented to
the court is, whether there has been an appearance in the case.
Three years have passed since the institution of this suit; and
the first notice-whicl. was taken of the proceeding by the state
of New York, was by a communication addressed to the court,
by the attorney-general of the state, informing the court that
the state would not appear. 3 Peters, 461. Now, the period
for an appearance and answer has gone by; and instead of an
appearance, a paper is filed, stating that the state of New York
is not bound to appear. The attorney-general of New York is not
known as such, to this court. It can only know the parties or
their solicitors; and although he may be a solicitor of the court,
yet he cannot be known as a solicitor in the case, unless by his
special ackowledgement that he is such. If the gentleman
who has addressed the court on behalf of the attorney-general
will.enter his appearance in the case,. the whole of the difficulty will be removed. It is admitted that a demurrer signed
by a solicitor of the court, is an appearance in the cause in
which it is filed: but this is not that case. This court can only
know what was intended, by what has been done: and New
York having failed to appear and answer, by the time fixed in
therule, the case must now be put on its merits.
Mr Chief Justice
Court.

MARSHALL

delivered the opinion of the

JANUARY TERM 1832.
[New Jersey v. New York.]

The court have had the return made in this case under consideration. It considers the demurrer filed in this case by the
attorney-general of New York, as being an appearance for the
state, he being a practitioner in this court; and therefore, that
the demurrer is regularly filed. If the attorney general did
not so mean it, it is not a paper which can be considered as in
the cause, or be placed on the files of the court. We say this
now, that the attorney-general may have due notice, if he did
not intend to enter any appearance for the state; it being otherwise a paper not to be received.
The demurrer, then, being admitted as containing an appearance by the state, the court is of opinion, that it amounts to a
compliance with the order at the last term. In that order, the
word "answer," is not used in a technical sense, as an answer to the charges in the bill under oath; but an answer, in a
more general sense, to the bill. A demurrer is an answer in
law to the bill, though not in a technical sense an answer according to the common language of practice.
The court, therefore, direct the demurrer to be set down
for argument, on the first Monday of March of this term,
according to the motion of the plaintiffs.

