OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Syllabus.

356 U. S.

MAISENBERG v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO

No. 76.

THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Argued January 28, 1958.-Decided May 26, 1958.

Petitioner was brought to the United States in 1912 at the age of
11 and was admitted to citizenship in 1938. In 1953, the Government sued under ยง 340 (a) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act of 1952 to set aside the naturalization decree on the ground
that it had been obtained by "concealment of a material fact [and]
willful misrepresentation." The District Court granted the relief
sought, and the Court of Appeals affirmed. Held: The judgment
is reversed, because the Government has failed to prove its charges
by the 'clear, unequivocal, and convincing evidence" which is
required in denaturalization cases. Schneiderman v. United States,
320 U. S. 118. Pp. 671-673.
1. The Government's timely filed affidavit of "good cause" was
sufficient. Nowak v. Uvited States, ante, p. 660. P. 672.
2. A finding of misrepresentation cannot be predicated on petitioner's answer to an ambiguous question in a preliminary
naturalizition form. Nowak v. United States, ante, p. 660. P.
672.
3. Though the Government proved that petitioner was a member
of the Communist Party for five years preceding her naturalization,
it failed to prove sufficiently that she was not "attached to the
principles of the Constitution," because it did not prove by "clear,
unequivocal, and convincing evidence" that she knew that the
Party advocated the violent overthrow of the Government. Pp.
672-673.
238 F. 2d 282, reversed and cause remanded.

Ernest Goodman argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief was George W. Crockett, Jr.
J. F. Bishop argued the cause for the United States.
On the brief were Solicitor General Rankin, Acting Assistant Attorney General McLean, Beatrice Rosenberg
and Carl H. Imlay.

MAISENBERG v. UNITED STATES.
670

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN-

delivered the opinion of .the

Court.
This is a companion case to No. 72, Nowak v. United
States, decided today, ante, p. 660.' Maisenberg was.
brought to this country from Russia in 1912, at the age
of 11. She was admitted to citizenship in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan
in.January 1938. In March 1953, in the same court, the
United States brought this suit ufider ยง 340 (a) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act of 19521 to set aside
the naturalization decree, alleging in its complaint that
Maisenberg's citizenship was obtained "by concealment
of a material fact [and] willful misrepresentation."
After a trial the District Court, in an unreported opinion,
granted the relief requested by the Government. The
Court 6f Appeals affirmed, 238 F. 2d 282, and we granted
certiorari. 353 U. S. 922.
Although the findings of the District Court do not
clearly disclose the grounds for deeision, Maisenberg
seems to have been denaturalized because she was found
to have made misrepresentations in (1) answering falsely
"No" to the second part of Question 28 in her Preliminary Form for Petition for Naturalization, filed in
June 1937; 2 and (2) stating that for a period of five
years preceding her naturalization she had been "at166 Stat. 260, 8 U. S. C. ยง 1451 (a):

"It shall be the duty of the United States district attorneys for
the respective districts, upon affidavit showing good cause therefor,
to institute proceedings . .. . for the purpose of revoking and setting

aside the order admitting such person to citizenship and canceling the
certificati' of naturalization on the ground that such order and
certificate of naturalization were procured by concealment of a
material fact or by willful misrepresentation . . .!
2 As in the form completed by Nowak, Question 28 read:
"28. Are you a'believer in anarchy? .

.

. Do you belong to or are

you associated with any organization which teaches or advocales anarchy or-the overthrow if existing government in this country? . .

672.

OCTOBER TERi,

1957.

Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

tached to the principles of the Constitution of the United
States...."

The District Court also -ustained the

sufficiency of the Government's affidavit of "good cause,"
which was not signed by an individual having personal
knowledge of the facts on which the proceedings were
based, but by an attorney of the Immigration and Naturalization Service who relied on official records of the
Service.
For the reasons stated in Nowak v. United States,
supra, we hold that (1). the Government's timely filed
affidavit of good cause was sufficient; and (2) a finding
of misrepresentation cannot be predicated on Maisenberg's negative answer to the second part of Question 28.
We also are of opinion that the Government has
failed to prove by "clear, unequivocal, and convincing"
evidence, Schneiderman v. United States, 320 U. S. 118,
125, 158, that Maisenberg was not "attached to the
principles of the Constitution."
As in Nowak, the Goverment has attempted to prove its case indirectly by
showing that Maisenberg was a member of the Com:munist Party during the five years preceding her naturalization and that she knew that the Party was illegally
advocating the violent overthrow of the United States.
We think that the Government has adequately proved
hat Maisenberg was a member of the Party during the
pertinent five-year period. But, even making the same
assumptions on behalf of the Government that were made
in Nowak-that it was adequately shown that the Party
in 1938 advocated violent action for the overthrow of the
Government and that lack of "attachment" could be
'

In view of our decision that, as an objective matter, petitioner
has not been shown to have lacked attachment to the principles of
the Constitution in 1938, we need not reach the further question
under the 1952 Act whether the Government has adequately proved
that petitioner misrepresented her attachment or concealed a lack
of attachment. See note 1, supra.

MAISENBERG v. UNITED STATES.
670

Opinion of the Court.

proved by this method-the Government still cannot prevail. For we do not believe that it has carried the burden
of proving that Maisenberg was aware of that alleged
tenet of the Party.
Apart from introducing evidence that Maisenberg was
an active member and functionary of the Communist
Party, and that she had attended various "closed" Party
meetings, the Government presented several witnesses
who testified to a number of sporadic statements by Maisenberg (or by others in her presence) between 1930 and
1937 which are claimed to show that she was aware of the
purpose of the Party "to overthrow the government by
force" and to establish "the dictatorship of the proletariat." For much the same reasons given in Nowak, we
regard this evidence as inadequate to establish the Government's case. In each of the several episodes described
by the witnesses the statements attributed to Maisenberg
can well be taken as merely the expression of abstract
predictory opinions; all of them were of a highly equivocal nature; and the faltering character of much of this
testimony as to events of many years before casts the
gravest doubt upon its reliability. There is no evidence
in the record that Maisenberg herself ever advocated revolutionary action or that she was aware that the Party
proposed to take such action. Cf. Yates v. United States,
354 U. S. 298, 319-322. As we said in Nowak, such proof
falls short of the "clear, unequivocal, and convincing"
evidence needed to support a decree of denaturalization.
Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
reversed and the case is remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

[For dissenting opinion of MR.
JUSTICE CLARK and MR. JUsTICE
p. 669.]

JUSTICE BURTON, MR.
WHITTAKER, see ants,

