UNITED STATES v. PROCTER & GAMBLE,

677

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. PROCTER & GAMBLE
CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 51.

Argued April 28, 1958.--Decided June 2, 1958.

Followiag a federal grand jury investigation of possible criminal
violations of the Sherman Act, in which no indictment was returned,
the Government brought a civil suit-under § 4 of the Act to enjoin
alleged violations of §§ 1 and 2 by appedlees. The Government was
using the grand jury transcript to prepare the civil case for trial,
and appellees moved for discovery and production of the transcript, in order that they might have the same privilege. The
District Court ruled that appellees had shown "good causb," as
required by Rule 34 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and
granted the motion. Being unwilling to prodtice the transcript,
the Government moved that the order be amended to provide that,
if production of the transcript were not made, the Court would
dismiss the complaint. The order was so amended; the Government persisted in its refusal to produce the transcript; and the District Court dismissed the complaint. The Government appealed
to this Court. Helc"
1. The rule that a plaintiff who has voluntarily dismissed his
complaint may not appeal from the order of dismissal has no
application here, since the Government's motion to amend the
original order was designed only to expedite review of that order.
Pp. 680-681.
2. Appellees failed to show "good cause," as required by Rule 34,
for the wholesale discovery and production of a transcript of the
grand jury's proceedings, which pursuant to a long-established
policy must normally be kept secret, when they did not show that
the criminal procedure had been subverted to elicit evidence in a
civil case. Pp. 681-684.
Reversed.

Robert A. Bicks argued the cause for the United States.
On the brief were Solicitor General Rankin, Assistant
Attorney General Hansen, Daniel M, Friedman and
W. Louise Florencourt.

678

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

Kenneth C. Royall argued the cause for the Procter &
Gamble Co., appellee. With him on the brief were
Charles Sawyer, Richard W. Barrett, Frederick W. R.
Pride and H. Allen Lochner.
Mathias F. Correa argued the cause for the ColgatePalmolive Co., appellee. With him on the brief were
Jerrold G. Van Cise and James B. Henry, Jr.
Abe Fortas argued the cause for the Lever Brothers
Co., appellee. With him on the brief were William L.
McGovern and Abe Krash.
James T. Welch and Shelby Fitze filed a brief for the
Association of American Soap & Glycerine Producers,
Inc., appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DouGLAs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
*

This is a civil suit brought under § 4 of the Sherman
Act, 26 Stat. 209, as amended, 15 U. S.C. § 4, to enjoin
alleged violations of § 1 and § 2 of the Act. The civil
suit was filed on the heels of a *grand jury investigation
in which no indictment was returned. The Government
is using the grand jury transcript to prepare the civil case
for trial; and appellees, who are defendants in that suit,
desire the same privilege. They -moved for discovery
and production of the minutes under the Rules of Civil
Procedure.1 - The District Court granted the motion,
ruling that appellees had shown "good cause" as required
by Rule 34.2

It rested on the ground that the Govern-

IAppellee, Colgate-Palmolive Co., moved under Rule 6 (e) of the
Rules of Criminal Procedure, note 5, infra.
2 Rule'34 provides in part:
"Upon motion of any party showing good cause therefor and upon
notice to all other parties, and subject to the provisions of Rule
30 (b), the court in which an action is pending may (1) order any

UNITED STATES v. PROCTER & GAMBLE.
677

679

Opinion of the Court.

ment was using the transcript in preparation for trial,

that it would be useful to appellees in their preparation,
that only in this way could appellees get the information.

These reasons, the court held, outweighed the reasons
behind the policy for maintaining secrecy of the grand

jury proceedings.

19 F. R. D. 122, 128.

The District Court entered orders directing the Gov-

ernment to produce the transcript in 30 days and to
permit appellees to inspect and copy it. The Government, adamant in its refusal to obey, filed a motion in

the District Court requesting that those orders be
amended to provide that, if production were not made,
the court would dismiss the complaint. Alternatively,

the Government moved the District Court to stay the
order pending the filing of an appeal and an application
for extraordinary writ. Appellees did not oppose the
motion; and the District Court entered an amended order
providing that, unless the Government released the tran-

script by August 24, 1956, "the Court will enter an order
dismissing the complaint." I

As the Government per-

party to produce and permit the inspection and copying or photographing, by or on behalf of the moving party, of any desighated
documents, . . . not privileged, which constitute or contain evidence
relating to any of the matters within the scope of the examination
permitted by Rule 26 (b) and which are in his possession, custody,.or control .... .
3
Rule 37 (b) (2) provides:
"If any party ... refuses to obey ... an order made under
Rule 34 to produce any document or other thing for inspection, copying, or photographing ....
the court may make such orders in
regard to the refusal as are just, and among others the following:
"(i) An order that . . . the contents of the paper . . . or any
other designated facts shall be taken to be established for the purposes of the action in accordance with the claim of the party obtaining
the order;
"(ii) An order refusing to allow the disobedient party to support
or oppose designated claims or defenses, or prohibiting him from

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court..

356 U. S.

sisted in its refusal, the District Court entered judgment
of dismissal. The case is here by way of appeal, 32 Stat.
823, as amended, 62 Stat. 869, 989, 15 U. S. C. § 29. We
postponed the question of jurisdiction to argument on the
merits. 352 U. S.997.
First. The orders of dismissal were final orders, ending
the case.' See United States v. Wallace & Tiernan Co.,
336 U. S. 793&
Appellees. urge that this appeal may not be maintained because dismissal 6f the complaint was solicited
by the Government. They invoke the familiar rule
that a plaintiff who has voluntarily dismissed his complaint may not sue out a writ of error. See Evans v.
Phillips,4 Wheat. 73; United States v. Babbitt, 104 U. S.
767. The rule has no application here. The Government at all times opposed the production orders. It
might of course have tested their validity in other ways,
for example, by the route of civil contempt. Yet it is
understandable why a more conventional way of getting
review of the adverse ruling might be sought and any
unseemly conflict with the District Court avoided. When
introducing in evidence designated documents or things or items of
testimony ...
;
"(iii) An order striking out pleadings or parts thereof, or staying
further proceedings until the order is obeyed, or dismissing the action
or proceeding or any part thereof, or rendering a judgment by default
against the disobedient party;
"(iv) In lieu of any of the foregoing orders or in addition thereto,
an order -ditecting the arrest of any party or agent of a party for
disobeying any of such orders . ..."
4 Rule 41 (b) provides iii part:
"Unless th6 court in its order for dismissal otherwise specifies,
a dismissal under this subdivision and any dismissal uTot provided
for in this rule, other than a dismissal for lack of jurisdiction or fGr
improper venue, operates as an adjudication upon the merits."
While Rule 41 (b) covers motions to dismiss made by defendants,
the portion quoted shows that it is not restricted to that'situation.

UNITED STATES v. PROCTER & GAMBLE.
677

68.1

Opinion of the Court.

the Government proposed dismissal for failure to obey,
it had lost on the merits and was only seeking an expeditious review. This case is therefore like Thomsen v.
Cayser, 243 U. S.66, where the losing party got the lower
court to dismiss the complaint rather than remand for a
new trial, so that it could get review in this Court. The
court, in denying the motion. to dismiss, said
"The plaintiffs did not consent to a judgment against
them, but only that, if there was to be such a judgment, it should be final in form instead of interlocutory, so that they might come to this court without
'further delay." Id., at 83.
Second. On the merits we have concluded that "good
cause," as used in Rule 34, was not established. The
Government as a litigant is, of course, subject to the rules
of discovery. At the same time, we start with a longestablished policy that maintains the secrecy of the grand
jury proceedings in the. federal courts.' See United
States v. Johnson, 319 U. S.503, 513; Costello v. United
States, 350 U. S.359, 362. The reasons are varied.' One
SRule 6 (e) of the Rules of Criminal Procedure provides in part:
"Disclosure ot matters occurring before the grand jury other than
its deliberations and the vote of any juror may be made to the attorneys for the government for use in the performance of their duties.
Otherwise a juror, attorney, interpreter or stenographer may disclose
* matters occurring before the grand jury only when so directed by
the court preliminarily to or in connection with a judicial proceeding.
or when permitted by the court at the request of the defendant upon
a showing that grounds may exist for a motion to dismiss the
indictment because of matters occurring before the grand jury. No
obligation of secrecy -may be imposed upon any person except in
accordance with this rule."
6
In"Uited States v. Rose, 215 F. 2d 617, 628-629, those reasons
were summarized as follows:
"(1). To prevent, the escape of those whose indictment may be
contemplated; (2) to insure the utmost freedom to the grand jury
in its deliberation , and to prevent persons subject to indictment or
*

45877- 0-5&---47

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

is to encourage all witnesses to step forward and testify
freely without fear of retaliation. The witnesses in
antitrust suits may be employees or even officers of
potential defendants, or their customers, their competitors, their suppliers. The grand jury as a public institution serving the. community might- suffer if those
testifying today knew that the secrecy of their testimony would be lifted tomorrow. This "indispensable
secrecy of grand jury proceedings," United States v. Johnson, supra, at 513, must not be broken except where there
is a compelling necessity. There are instances when that
need will outweigh the countervailing policy. But they
must be shown with particularity.
No such showing was made here. The relevancy and
usefulness of the testimony sought were, of course, sufficiently established. If the grand jury transcript were
made available, discovery through depositions, which
might involve delay and substantial costs, would be
avoided. Yet* these showings fall short of proof that
without the transcript a defense would be greatly prejudiced or that without reference to it an injustice would
be done. Modern instruments of discovery serve a useful purpose; as we noted in Hickman v. Taylor, 329 U. S.
495. They together with pretrial procedures make a trial
less a game of blindmah's buff and more a fair contest
with the basic issues and facts disclosed to the fullest prac•ticable extent. Id., at 501. Only strong public policies
vigh against disclosure. They were present-in Hickman
-their friends from importuning the grand jurors; (3) to lirevent
s-bornation of perjury or tampeling with the witnesses who may
testify befoire grdnd jury and later appear at the trial of those
indicted by it; (4). to encourage free and untrammeled disclosures by
persons who have information with respect to the commission of
crimes; (5) to protect innocent accused who is exonerated from
" disclosure of the fact that he has been under investigation, and from
the expense of standing trial where there was no probability of guilt."

UNITED STATES v. PROCTER & GAMBLE.
677

683

Opinion of the Court.

v. Taylor, supra,for there the information sought was in
the trial notes of the opposing lawyer. They are present
here because of the policy of sedrecy of grand jury proceedings. We do not reach in this case problems concerning the use of the grand jury transcript at the trial
to impeach a witness, to refresh his recollection, to test
his credibility and the like. Those are cases of particularized need where the secrecy of the proceedings is lifted
discretely and limitedly. We only hold that no compelling necessity has been shown for the wholesale discovery and production of a grand jury transcript under
Rule 34. We hold that a much more particularized, more
discrete showing of need is necessary to establish "good
cause." The court made no such particularized linahg
of need in case of any one witness. It ordered that the
entire transcript be delivered over to the appellees. It
undoubtedly was influenced by the fact that this type
of case is complex, long drawn out, and expensive to
prosecute and defend. It also seemed to have been
influenced by the fact that the prosecution was using
criminal procedures to'elicit evidence in a civil case. If
the prosecution were using that device, it would be flouting the policy of the law. For in these Sherman Act
cases Congress has guarded against in camera proceedings
by providing that "the taking of depositions . . .shall
be open to the public" and that no order excluding the
public shall be valid. 37 Stat. 731, 15 U. S. C. § 30.
We cannot condemn the Government for any such
practice in this case. There is no finding that the grand
jury proceeding was used as a short cut to goals otherwise
barred or more difficult to reach. It- is true that no
indictment was returned in the present case. But that is
no reflection on the integrity of the prosecution. For all
7

See, e. g., United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150,
234. Cf.Jencks v. United States, 353 U. S. 657.

684

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
WHITTAKER,

J., concurring.

356 U.S.

we know, the trails that looked fresh at the start faded
along the way. What seemed at the beginning to be a
case with a criminal cast apparently took on a different
character as the events and transactions were disclosed.
The fact that a criminal case failed does not mean that
the evidence obtained could not be used in a civil case.
It is only when the criminal procedure is subverted that
"good cause" for wh6lesale discovery and production of
a grand jury itranscript would be warranted. No such
showing was made here.
Reversed.
MR.JusTicE WHiTTAXR,

concurring.

Believing that' appellees did not make a sufficient
showing of such exceptional and particularized need for
the grand jury minutes as justified wholesale invasion of
their secrecy in the circumstances of this case, I concur
in the Court's decision, but desire to add a word.
Although .a "no true bill" was voted by the grand jury
in this case-and, hence, the Government's attorneys,
agents and investigators were then through with the
grand jury proceedings, if they were conducted for lawful
purposes-the Government admits that it has used the
grand jury -minutes and transcripts in its preparation,
and that it intends to use them in its prosecution, of this
civil case. Appellees suggest, principally on the basis
that no indictment was prepared, presented to or asked
of the grand jury,, that the Government's- purpose in
conducting the grid jury investigation was to obtain,.
ex parte, direct or derivative eiridence for its use in this
civil suit. which then was contemplated. But the District Court made no finding of such a fact. However, it
is obvious that such could be, and probably has often7
been, the real purpose of grand jury investigations in like
cases. The grand jury minutes and transcripts are not
the property of the Government's attorneys; agents or

UNITED STATES v. PROCTER & GAMBLE.
677

HARLAN,

685

J., dissenting.

investigators, nor are they entitled to possession of them
in such a case. Instead those documents are records of
the court.. And it seems clear that where, as here, a
"no true bill" has been voted,. their secrecy, which the
law wisely provides, may be as fully violated by disclosure
to and use by the government counsel, agents and investigators as by the defendants' counsel in %dcli a civil suit.
In order to maintain the secrecy bf grand jury proceedings; to eliminate the temptation to conduct grand jury
investigations as a means of ex parte procurement of
direct or*derivative evidence for use in a contemplated
civil suit; and to eliminate, 'so far as possible, fundamental unfairness and inequality by permitting the Government's attorneys, agents and investigators to .possess
and use such materials while denying like possession and
use by attorneys for the defendants in such a case, I
would adopt a rule requiring that the grand jury minutes*
and transcripts and all copies thereof and memoranda
made therefrom, in -cases where a "no true bill" has been
voted, be promptly upon return sealed and impounded
with the clerk of the court, subject to inspection by any
party to such a civil suit only upon order of *the court
made, after notice and hearing, upon a showing of suchexceptional and particularized need as is necessary to
establish "good cause," in the circumstances, under
Rule 34. Surely such an order may still be made by the
trial court in this case-.
MR. JtsTICE tAxRI, whom MR. JuSTIcE FRANKFURTER
and MR. JusTICE BURTON join, dissenting.
The Court reverses the judgment below without so
much as adverting .to what seems to me the real ahd
only questi6n in the case: Did the District Court abuse
its -discretion by ordering the Government to furnish
the appellees with the transcript of the grand .jury
proceedings?

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

356 U.S.

I do not believe this question can be avoided, or obscured
by casting the issue in terms of whether the appellees
made an adequate showing of "good cause" uder Rule 34
for the discovery which they sought and gained. What
com titutes "good cause" under Rule 34 necessarily turns
on Ihe facts and circumstances of each particular case,
and in the last analysis rests within the sound discretion
of the trial court. 4 Moore's Federal Practice (2d ed.
1950) § 34.08.
Viewing the matter in this light, I do not think it
cau be said that the lower court was guilty of an abuse
of discretion. A cursor: statement of the setting in
which appellees were accorded access to the grand jury
transcript should suffice to make this clear. By any
standards this antitrust litigation was of great magnitude and complexity. In .1956, when discovery was
ordered, the litigation had been pending for over three
years, and despite the assiduous efforts of the court
to bring the issues within manageable compass, the case
seems still to have been far removed from a posture where
trial was in sight. The discovery order was the subject
of elaborate briefing and oral argument, during the
course of which the court found itself handicapped by
the refusal of the Government to indicate the exact
use it had made, and intended to make, of the grand jury
transcript in conection with its pretaration and trial of
the case.'
'The following is taken from the District Court's opinion:
.. ddring the oral argument of these motions the court asked
Mr. McDowell, plaintiff's attorney, the following questions:
"'Mr. McDowell, do you object to submitting a deiailed affidavit
stating exactly (a) what use, if any, plaintiff has'made in the past
of the grand jury transcripts while preparing for the trial of this
case; (b) what use, if any, plaintiff intends to make of the transcripts during its future preparation for the trial; (c) what use,
if any, plaintiff intends to make of 'the transcripts during the trial.'
"He wished to confer with his superiors in the Department of Justice

UNITED STATES v. PROCTER & GAMBLE.
677

HARLAN,

687

J., dissenting.

In granting discovery the District Court wrote a reasoned opinion in which it found: (1) that the Government had filed its complaint in this civil suit following
an eighteen-month grand jury investigation, which had
ended some four Years .before the discovery order without
an indictment being returned; 2.(2) that the Government
had made continuing use of the grand jury transcript in
its preparation of the civil case;' (3) that "the ends of
justice" required-that appellees be given reciprocal access
to such transcript in aid of the preparation of their
defense; ' and (4) that disclosure would not in the circumstances violate the traditional reasonsfor safeguarding
the secrecy of grand jury proceedings."
'before deciding if he would answer the questions. The court awaited
candid answers-but in vain. Fqr Mi. McDowell wrote:
"'The questions wh-ch you put to 'me at the hearing on December
12th relating to the use by the government of transcripts of grand
jury testimony have been given '"erious consideration within the
Department of iu~tice. I am instructed respectfully to inform you
that we do not wish to add to the statement which I made at the
hearing.'
"His 'statement' at the hearing did not answer the questions. Because
the plaintiff arbitrarily has refused to answer the couru s questions
relating to any use of these transcripts, the court has been denied
helpful information and as a result has been forced to seek its
answers elsewhere."
2In response to questions put at oral argument, government counsel
informed us that the Government had not requested the grand jury
to return an indictment.
3In the Appendix to its opinion, which reviews some of the prior
proceedings, the District Court refers to the following comment made
by it at an earlier stage of the case:
"'One of my concerns is that since plaintiff has been preparing
its case for probably three years, or longer, how long must we
wait for defendants to prepare their case? The sooner defendants
are informed of plaintiff's factual contefitions, the sooner defense
preparation can commence-and not before, obviously.'"
4 See United States v. Rose, 215 F. 2d 617, 628-629, quoted from
in footnote 6 of the Court's opinion.

OCTOBiER TERM, 1957.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

The following quotation from the District Court's
opinion reveals its alert and sensitive concern over
unnecessary disclosure of grand jury proceedings:
"I realize there is a strong caveat against the needless intrusion upon the indispensable secrecy of grand
jury proceedirngs. The reasons therefor were indelibly impressed upon me when I served as Assistant
Prosecutor of my home county for ten years where I
spent the greater part of the time presenting cases
to the. grand jury. I realize further that a strong
and positive showing should be required of persons
seeking to break the -seal of -secrecy, which never
should be done exceiit in extreme instances to prevent clear injustice or an abuse of judicial processes.
Which policy should be served here to bring about
justice:-the policy requiring secrecy, or the policy
permitting disclosure for discovery purposes only in
the interest of justice? I believe the requirement of
secrecy in- this case can be safely- waived and the
mihutes of the grand jury divulged within the limits
prescribed by the law, and that fhe failure to do so
would be an abuse of discretion and not in the furtherance of justice. Under Rule 6 (e) of the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure our courts have, by way
of interpretation, extended their jurisdiction so as to
removd 'the veil of secrecy' around grand jury proceedings where, in the court's discretion, the further-ance of justice requires it. - If it can be done on the
criminal 'side, I can se6 no compelling reason why it
cannot be safely done on the civil side in this case.
I' would not grant these motions if'I thought'
they were prejudicial to the public interest, useless
or unnebessary, would not 'reveal the information
sought, or defendants already possessed all the
necessary ihformation or could obtain it by pursuing
a different remedy."

UNITED STATES v. PROCTER & GAMBLE.* 689
677

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

The findings of the District Court as to what the procedural situation in this complicated case fairly required,
made as they were by a judge who had been in charge of
this case from the beginning, should not be disturbed by
this Court any more lightly than findings made after a
trial on the merits. Cf. United States v.Yellow Cab Co.,
338 U. S. 338; United States v. Oregon State Medical
Society, 343 U. S.326.
The Court recognizes that had the Government's grand
jury investigation been instituted solely in aid of a civil
suit-that is without any thought of obtaining an indictment-the appellees would then have been entitled to see
the entire grand jury-trnscript. Although it may be
true that no finding has been made here of such misuse
of the grand jury process, I am unable to see why the case
where a grand jury investigation hasaborted and the
Governmept thereafter uses the transcript solely in aid of
its civil case should be treated differently. The only distinction relates to the Government's motive in instituting
the grand jury proceedings. For ii; both instances the
effect on the litigation is precisely the same, and in both
instances the Government's conduct disrespects the policy underlying 37 Stat. 731, 15 U. S. C. § 30," requiring
the testimony of witnesses in governeme" Sherman Act
equity suits to be taken in public. In n~ither type of
case should the Court undertake to lay down a fixed rule
concerning disclosure of grand jury transcripts, but instead
should leave the matter to the sound discretion of the
5
"[in] the taking of depositions of witnesses for use in any suit
in equity brought by'the United States under the [Sherman ict],
and in the hearings before any examiner or special master appointed
to take testimony therein, the proceedings shall be open -to the
public as freely as are trials in open court; and no order excluding
the public from attendance on any such'proceedings shall be valid'or
enforceable."

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
HARLAN,

J., dissentihg.

356 U. S.

trial judge, to be dealt with by him in light of the particular circun.stances of.each case.
I fully .subscribe to the view that the strong public
policy of preserving the secrecy of grand jury proceedings
should prevent the general disclosure of a grand jury
transcript except in the rarest cases. 'But the inflexible
rule announced today, which allows that policy to be
overcome only in instandes where it can be shown that
the Government has "subverted" the grand jury process
in the manner suggested by the Court, seems to me an
unwise and unnecessary curbing of trial judges in th6
efficient and fair handling of the difficult problems presented by a unique type of litigation. See the Prettyman
Report on Procedure in Anti-Trust and other Protracted
Cases, 13 F. R. D.-62, -which has been adopted by the Judicial Conference of the United State's. This is particularly so in cas'es likhe the one. before us, where the grand
jury's functions have long since ended. See United
States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S.150, 233-234;
8 Wigmore, Evidence. (3d ed. 1940), § 2362. Here as
elsewhere in the realm of discretionary power appellate
review should be the safeguard against abuse in particular instances, rather than the a prioriimposition of rigid
restrictions upon trial judges which leavo them powerless
to act in .apropriate cases. Under the facts shown by
this record, I am unable to say that the District Court
abdsed its discretion 'in ordering the grand jury transeript
to be made available to the appellees.

