UNITED STATES v. CORES.

405

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED -STATES v. CORES.
APPEAL FROM THE UI9ITED STATES-DISTRICT CQURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.

No.455. Argued March 13, 1958.-Decided May 19, 1958.
..An alien crewman*who willfully remains in the United States in
excess of the 29 days allowed by his- onditional landing permit,
in violation of § 252 c) of the Immigration and Nationaliiy Act,
is guilty of a cdntinuing offense which may be proiecuted in any .
district where he is found, even though it is not the
district where
I
he was present when his permit expired. Pp. 405-410.
Reversed and remanded.

John F. Davis argued the cause for the United States.
On the brief were Solicitor General Rag1cin, Acting
Assistant Attorney Genefal McLean, Beatrice Rosenberg.and Carl H. Imlay.
By invitation of the Court, 355 U.JS. 887, Clark M.
Clifford argued the cause, as amicus curiae, in support
of the judgment below. With him.on a brief he filed, as
amicus curiae, was Carson M. Glass.
MR.

JusTIm

CLARK delivered the opinion of the Court.

The sole issue in this appeal is whether an alien crewman who willfully remains in the United States in excess
of the 29 days allowed by his conditional landing permit,
in violation of § 252 (c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act,' is guilty of a continuing offense which may
166 Stat. 221, 8 U. S. C. § 1282 1c). Subsection (a) authorizes im--

migration officers to grant permits, on certain co'nditions, allowing
alien crewmen to land for periods up. to 29 days. Subsection, (b)
details procedures" for revocation of permits. Subsection (c)sets
out the criminal penalties involved in this case:

"Any alien crewman-who willfully remains in the United States
in excess of the number of days allowed in any'conditional permit

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of" the Court.

356 U. S.

be prosecuted in the district where he is found. Discovering that appellee's permit had expired before, he
entered the district where he.was apprehended and where
the prosecution was begun, the District Court dismissed
the criminal information, holding that a violatioi of
§ 252 (c) was not a continuing crime. The Government
brought direct appeal. 18 U. S. C. § 3731, and we noted
probable jurisdiction. 355 U. S. 866 (1957). Since we
conclude that the District Court was in error, the judgment is reversed and the case is remanded for further
proceedings.
The information, filed in the United States District
Court for the District of Connecticut, charged that
appellee entered the United States at Philadelphia on
April 27, 1955, and that 29 days later, at the expiration of
his conditional landing permit, he "did wilfully and
knowingly remain in the United States, to wit: 'Bethel,
Connecticut," in violation of § 252 (c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. A plea of guilty was entered,
but a government attorney informed the court prior to
sentencing that appellee was not in Connecticut at the
expiration of his permit as charged in the information,
bt -that in fact he came to Connecticut only after spending-about a year in New York. The judge, permitted
withdrawal of the guilty plea and dismissed the case. He
cited an earlier decision of the same court holding that
.§ 252 (c)-did not define a continuing crime, United States
v. Tavares, No. 9407 Crim., May 6, 1957, and indicated
that the information was brought in an improper district
since appellee was not in Connecticut at the time, his
2
permit. expired
issued under subsection (a) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
tpon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than 8500 or shall
be imprisoned for not more than six months; pr both."
2 Appellee suggosts that the inconsistency in the date of the offense
, alleged in -the' information and as represented by government.

. UNITED STATES v. CORES.
405

Opinion of the Court.

-

The Constitution makes it clear that detefimination of
proper venue in a criminal c4e require-s determination
of where the crime .was.,commitsd. This principle is"
reflected in numerous statutory en~tments, incluling
Rule 18, Fed. Rules Crim., Proc., which provides: that
except as otherwise permitted, "the prosecution -shall be
had in a districtin which the offense was committed...."
In ascertaining this locality we are'mindful that questions
of venue "raise deep. issues of public policy in the light
of which legislation must be construed." United States
v. Johnson, 323 U. S.273, 276 -(1944).. The provision for
trial in the vicinity of the crime is a safeguard against theunfairness and hardship involved when an accused is
prosecuted ih a renote place. Provided its language
permits, 'the Act in question should be given -ai con-struction which. will respect such considerations.
Unlike some statutory offenses,' there is an absence
here of any specific, provision fixing venue, save the
ci unsel provides additional reason for upholding the dismissal. This
phase of the cas6, however, is not before us, United States V.. Borden
Co., 308 U. S. 188, 206-207 (1939),so we confine our opinion to the
point of statutory construction which clearly prompted the dismissal.
Any inconsistency may be asserted by appellee on remand. See
-Fed. Rules Crim. Proc., 7 (e).
3 "The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall
be by Jury; hnd suchl Trial shall be held in the State where the said
Crimes shall have- been committed ....
" U. S. Const., Art. III,
§ 2, ci. 3.
"In all criminal prosecutions, the accu'sed shall enjoy the right to
• a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the crime shall have been committed.
" U. S.
Const., Amend.-VI.
4 See, e. g., 18 U. S. C. §-659 (theft of goods in interstate commerce); 18 U. S. C. § 1073 (flight to avoid prosecution or giving
testimony); 18 U. S. C. § 3236 (murder or manslaughter); 18
U. S. C. § 3239 (transmitting or mailing - threatening communications); 32 Stat. 847, 34 Stat. 587, 49 U. S.'C. § 4r"(1) (certain violations of Interstate Commerce Act). See 4 Barron, Federal Practice
and Procedure, § 2061.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957,
Opinion of the Court.

356U. S.

general languiage of the Act providing for venue "at any
place in the United States at which the violation may
occur
In such cases the Court must base its.
determination on "the nature of the trime alleged and the
location, of the act or acts constituting it," United States
v. Anderson, 328 U. S. 699, 703 (1946), and if the
Congress is found to have- created a continuing offense,
"the locality of [the] crime shall extend-over the whole
area through which force propelled by an offender operates." United States v. Johnson, sitpra,at 275.
Section 252 (c) punishes "[a]ny alien crewman -who
willfully remains in the United States in excess of the
number of days allowed." The conduct proscribed 'is
the affirmative act of willfully remaining, and the crucial .word "remains" permits no connotation other than
continuing presence. Nor does-the section necessarily,
pertain to any particdlar locality, such as the place of
entry, for the Act broadly ektends to willfully remaining
"in the ,United States."' Appellee urges, however, that
the offense is completed the moment the permit expires,
5 § 279; Immigration and Natiohality Act-, 66. Stat. 230, - U. S. C.
§ 1329.
( The offense here is iulike crimes of illegal entry set out in §§ 275
and 276 of the Act. 66 Stat. 229, U. S. C. §§ 1325, 1326. Those
offenses are not continuing ones, as "entry" is limited to a particular
locality and- hardly suggests continuity. Hence a specific vienue prbvision in § 279 of the Act was required before illegal entry cases could
be prosecuted at the place of apprehension.- 66 Stat. 230, 8 U. S. C.
§ 1329.- This reasoning underlay .the request -for specific legislation
by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. See Analysis of
S. 3455, 81st Cong., prepared by the General Counsel of-the Service,
p.. 276-2. In .c6ntrast to illegal entry, the. § 252 (c) offense of willfully remaining'is continuing in nature, A specific venue provision
'would be mere surphisage, since prosecutions may be instituted .in
any district where the offense- has- been committed, not .necessarily
the district where, the -violation first occurred. The absence of such
provision; fherpfore,.is. with6tt significance._..-,

UNITED STATES v. CORES.0

! 409

Opinion -of -the Court,

405

and that even if the alien remains'thereafter, he no longer
commits the offense. It is true that remaining at the instant of expiration satisfies the definition of.the crime, but
it does'not exhaust it. See United States v. Kissel, 218
U. S.601, 607 (1910). It seems incongruous.to say' thatwhile the alien "willfully remains" on the 29th day when
his permit expires, he no longer does so on the 30th,
though still physically present in the country. Given the
element of willfulness, we believe-an. alien "remains," in
the contemplation of the statute, until he physically
leaves the United States. The crime achieves no finality
until such time. Since an offense committed in more
'than one district "may lie inquired of and prosecuted in
any district in- which such offense was .. . continued,"
18 U. S. C. §3237, 'Venue for § 252 (c) lies in any district
where the crewman willfully remains after the permit
expires. Appellee entered Connecticut and was found
there, so that district has venue for the prosecution.
The legislative history is not inconsistent with this
interpretation of the statute, After a thorough investigation of our immigration laws completed some two years
prior to the enactment of § 252'(c), the Senate Committee
on the Judiciary reported, "The problems relating to seamen are largely created by those who desert their ships,
remain here illegally beyond the- time granted them to
stay, and become lost in the general populace.of the country." S. Rep. No. .1515, 81st Cong., 2d -Sess. 550. The
tracing of such persons is complicated by the obscuration
worked both by their.own movement and by the pasgage
of time. In this attnosphere the Congress sought to
establish *sanctions for alien crewmen .who !'willfully
remain," -the Senate Committee having observed that
traditional remedies for the probleni were inadequate.
because many crewmen "do not have. the necessary docu'men&s to perit deportation." .Ibid. it is hardly likely.
that the Congress would create the new-sanction only to
458ms O--

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

strip it of much of its effectiveness bycqo'pelling trial in'.
the district where the crewman was present' when-his pekmit expired-a place which months or years later might
well be impossible 'of proof.
Moreover, we think it not amiss to point out that this
result is entirely in keeping with the policy of relieving
the accused, where possible, of the inconvenience incident
to prosecution in a district far removed from his residence.
See Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62, 78 (1905); Johnston'y.
United States, 351 U. S. 215, 224 (dissent) (41956). Forcing an alien crewman to trial in the district where he was
present at the expiration of his permit could entail'much
hardship. By holding the crime here to be a continuing
one we make a valuable tool.of justice available to, the
crewman. Rule 21 (b) of the-FederalRules of Criminal
Procedure provides for transfer of the proceeding to
another district on motion of the defendant if it appears
that the offense was committed in more than one district,
and "if the court is satisfied that in the interest of justice
the proceeding should be transferred to another district
or division in 'which the commission of the offense is
charged." The rule, with its inherent flexibility, would
be inapplicable absent characterization 6f the offense as"
continuing in nature.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLA§, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE BLACK concur, dissenting.
The decision seems to me 'to be out of harmony with
the statutory scheme of veiiue which Congress designed
for immigration cases. We are here concerned with a
crime- under § 252 of the Immigration and Nationality
Act of 1952, 66 Stat. 163, 220, 8 U. S. C. § 1282; viz.
unlawfully remaining in the United States. -Sections 275
,and 276 describe crimes of unlawful entry. Section 279

UNITED STATES v. CORES:
405

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

gives the District Courts jurisdiction over the trial of
both types of crimes; and as to venue it provides:
f'Notwithstanding any other law, such prosecutions or suits may be instituted at any place in the
United States at which the violation may occur or
at which the person charged with a violation uider
section 275 or 276 may be apprehended."
When Congress wanted to lay venue in the district
:where the accused was "apprehended," it said so. It
would seem, therefore, that venue may be laid in the district where the alien was "apprehended" only in case of
the crimes of unlawful entry. All other crimes are to be
prosecuted in the district where the violation 'first
occurred. It is no answer to say that this crime is different because it was "continuous." See In re Snow, 120
U. S.274, 281. As District Judge Smith said, the distinction drawn by § 279 between venue at, the place of
violation and venue at the place of apprehension "would
be meaningless if violations such as the one in issue were
regarded as continuous." United States v. Tavares,
supra.*
Moreover, the crime is completed when the conditionalpermit expires. All elements of the crime occur then.
Nothing more remains to be done. It is then and there,
Congress says, that the crime is "committed" in the sense
§ 2, cl. : of the
that that term is employed in Art. III.,
Constitution and in the Sixth Amendment.
I would affirm the judgment of the District Court.
*Congress has made its intent equally clear in analogous situations, see, e. g., 18 U. S. C. § 659, where the possession cf certain
stolen goods, certainly a continuing illegal status similar to remaining,

is made a crime.

Section 659 provides in pertinent *part: "The

offense shall be deemed to have been committed

. . .

in any district

in which the defendant may have taken or been in possession of the
said money, baggage, goods, or chattels."

