274

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Syllabus.

356"U. S.

FIDELITY-PHILADELPHIA TRUST CO. ET
SMITH, COLLECTOR OF
EXECUTORS, .v.
INTERNAL REVENUE.

AL.,

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

_No. 130. Argued January 30,-1958.-Decided April 28, 1958.
At the age of 76 and without a medical examination, petitioners'.
decedent purchased at regular rates three single-premium life'
insurance policies on her own life, payable to-nimed beneficiaries,
and, from the same companies at the same fime, as required by
these companies, three single-premium. nonrefundable life annuity
policies. The use and- enjc,yment of the annuity policies were
entirely independent of the life insurance policies; but the size 'of
each" annuity was calculated so that, in the event the annuitantinsure.d died prematurel-, the annuity premium, less the annuity
paynts alreald nrade, would combine with the 'life insurance
prniiium, plus interest, to equal the amount of insurance proceeds
to be p'id, plus expenses. The decedent received the annuities
throughout the remainder of hr lifetime but, paying a giff tax,
.be irrevocably assigned all rights and benefits under the insurance
plicies, including the rights to receive dividends, to change beneficiaries, and to surrender or as.sign the policies. Two policies were
assigned to her children and the third to a trustee, the decedent
Tetaining 110 benefici:l or reversionary interest in the trust. Held:
lieproceeds of the life insurance policies should not be Included in
-ffe d cedent's estate for the purpose of the federal estate tax
ui (der § 811 (c) (1) (B), of tie Internal Revenue Code of 1939.
Pp 275-281.
( fIclcring v. Le Gierse. 312 U. S. 531, di.'inguished.
Pp. 77-279.
(b) ,Under the assigmnient, the decedent had not'become a life
tenan who postponesthe possession and enjoyment of the property by" the remaindernien uintil her death. Pp,278-279.
(c) Nor are the assigines like second anntitants in survivorship
annuitij~s or joint :mnuitants in joint and survivor annuities.
P. 279, n. 5:
(d) The annuity payments were not income from property
which the iiasured tralnsferred to her children-under the life insur-

FIDELITY-PHILA. TRUST CO.'-v. SMIT:I*, 275
274

Opinion of the Court.

ance policies, since the use and enjoyment of the annuity poli.ies
were entirely independent of the life insurance policies." Pp.
279-281.
241 F. 2d 690, reversed.

Robert T. McCracken argued the cause for petitioners.
With. him on the brief was John B. Leake.'
Myron C. Baum argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the biief were Solicitor General Rankin,
Assistant Attorney General Rice and Harry Baum.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WARREN delivered the opinion Of
the Court.
The question before the Court is whether the proceeds
of certain insurance policies on the life of the decedent,
payable to named beneficiaries and irrevocably assignedby the insured, should. be included in the estate of the
decedent for the purposes of the federal estate tax. The
fcts are not in dispute. In 1934 decedent, then aged 76 "
purchased a'series of annuity-life insurance policy coiAbinations. Three single-premium life insurance policies,
at face values of $200,000, $100,000, and $50,000, respectively, were obtained without the requirement of a medical examination. As a condition to selling decedent each
life insurance' policy, the companies involved required
decedent also to purchase a separate, single-premium,
nonrefundable life annuity policy. The premiums for
each life insurance policy and for each annuity policy
were fixed at regular rates. The size of each annuity,
however, was calculated so that in the event the annuitant-insured died prematurely the annuity premiuni,
less the amount allocated to annuity payments already
nadej, would combine with the companion life insurance
premium, plus interest, to equal the amount of insurance
proceeds to be paid.' Each annuity policy could have
Of course, an additional-amount is added to the premiums to
compensate the insurance companies for expenses..

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

been purchased without the insurance policy for the game
premium charged for it under the annuity-life insurance
combination.
The decedent's children were primary benfficiar'es of
the insurance policies; the Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust
Company, as trustee of a trust established by decedent,was named beneficiary of the interests of any of decedent's
phildren who predeceased her. In the. year of purchase,
decedent assigned all rights and benefits under two of the
life insurance policies to her c!ildren and under the other
,o the Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company as trustee.
'These rights*and benefits included the rights to receive
dividends, to change the beneficiaries, to surrender the
policies, and to assign them. Dividends were received,
but, as far as -the record discloses, none of the other rights
was exercised. A gift tax on these transfers was paid by
the decedent in 1935. In 1938 decedent amended _the
above-mentioned trust so that it became irrevocable. As
the. -Government concedes, the decedent retained no
beneficial or reversionary interest in the tr.ust.
The insured died in 1946. The proceeds of the three
insurance policies were not included in her estate in the
estate tax return. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue determined that these proceeds should have been
included and assessed a deficiency accordingly. The
adjusted fax was paid by the executors, and when claim
for refund was denied, this action for refund followed.
*The District Court entered judgment for the taxpayers,
1ut the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed.
241 F. 2d 690. We granted certiorari.- 354 U. S. 921.'
In agreement with the decision below are Burr v.. Commissioner,
156 F. 2d 871 (C. A. 2d Cir.), and Conway v. Glenn, 193 F. 2d 965
(C. A. 6th Cir.). To the contrary is Bohnen' v. Harrison, 199 F. 2d
4 2 _C- A. 7th Cir.), affirmed by an equally divided Cou , 345
U: S. 946.
2

FIDPEITY-PHILA. TRUST CO. v. SMITH.

277

Opinion of- the Court.

2474

It is conceded by the parties that the question of
whether the proceeds should be included in the estate is
not determinable by the federal estate tax provision
dealing with life insurance proceeds. Cf. Helvering v.
Le Gierse, 312 U. S.531. -To support the decision below,
the Government argues that the proceeds are includible
in the estate under Section 811 (c) (1) (B) of the Inteinal
Revenue Code of 1939, which includes, in,
the estate of
the decedent, property, to the extent of tlo decedent's
interest therein, which the decedent had transferred without adequate and full consideration, under which transfer
the decedent
"has retained for his life . .. (i) the possession or
enjoyment of, or the right to income from, the:
property

...

"

The Government contends that the annuity payments,
which were retained until death, were income from property transferred by the decedent to her children through
the use of the life insurance policies.
On the other hand, petitioners, executors of the estate.
assert that the annuity payments were income from the
annuity policies, which were separate property from the
insurance policies, and that" since decedent had assigned_
away the life insurance policies before death, she retaiued
110 interest in them at death..
The Government relies on Helvering v. Le Gierse,
supra, where this Court also had before it the issue of the
taxability of proceeds-from a life insurance policy in an
annuity-life insurance,¢ombination. After holding that
the taxability of these prgceeds was nototo be determined
for estate tax purposes according to the statutory provisions dealing with life insurance,:' the Court held that
3 Section 302 (g) of the Revmnue Act of 1926, 44 Stait. 9,71,
.x-mpted from the" estate proceeds up to $40,(]00 "receivemhie . .. a
insurance" by persons other than the ex(cutor. The proceeds in
Heheeing v. Le Gierse were not considered to have :,ri~en from

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion' of the Court.

356 U. S.

the proceeds were includible in the estate under Section
302 (c) of the. Revenue Act of 1926 because they devolved
on the beiieficiaries in a transfer which took "effect in
possession or enjoynent at or after .... death." 312
U. S., at 542.. However, in reaching this conclusion the
decision did not consider the problem in the case at bar,
for in Le Gierse the insured had retained the rights and
benefits of the insurance policy until death. The facts
in the instant case on this point are fundamentally different. Prior to dteath, the decedent had divested herself
of all interests in the insurance'policies, including the possibility that the funds would return to her or her estate if
the benefipiaries predeceased her.4

The assignees became

the "owners" of the policies before her death; they had
received the right to the immediate and unlimited use of

the p.olicies to the full extent of th*eir worth. The immediate value of the policies was always substantial. , In
the year of assignment their total cash 'surrender value
was over $289,000; in the year of death it .was over

$326,000.

Under the assignment, the decedent had not

'insurance" as Congress meant the word to be used because the ordinary "insurance risk" was not present. The insurance company had
not undertaken to shift the risk of premature dath from the insuredand to distribute the risk among its other policyholders. - On the
contra y, by requiring a concurrent purchase of a n~hrefundable
-annuity Ontract, the company had-nedtralized the risk a't
flie expense
of the "inimred." The remaining risk, whether the annuitant would
live beyond the actuarial prediction and after the insurance policy
had been surrendered, was considered riot an insurance risk but' a
risk of- ordinary investment. Cf. -Meisenholder, Taxation -of Annuity
Contracts under Estate and Inheritance Taxes, 39 Mich. L. Rev.
856, 883.
The principle that the proceeds are not considered "receivable . . .as insurance" applies 'whether at death the rights and
benefits of the policies are in the hands of the insured or of another
:.*rson: Goldstone v. United States, 325 U- S. 687, 690.
'Cf. Goldstone v. United States, supra.

FIDELITY-PHILA. TRUST CO. v. SMITH.
274

279

Opinion of the Court.

become a life tenant who postpones thelpossession and
.enjoyment of the property by the remah-deinen until her
death
Cf. Helvering v. Bullard, 303 U. S. 297; Commissioner v. Estate of Church, 335 U. S. 632.

On the

contrary, the assignees held the bundle of rights, the'incidents of ownership, over property from which the decedent had totally divorced herself. Cf. Chase National
Bank v. United States, 278 U. S. 327; Goldstone v. United
'States, 325 U. S. 687.
Illustrative of the distinction between Helvering v.
Le Gierse and the case at bar is the fact that the Government has not endeavored here to sustain the tax under

the statutory provision applied in that case. Instead of
the provision taxing transfers "intended to take effect
in possession or enjoyment at or after" the transferor's
death,' the provision applied in Le Gierse, the Government relies on the provision taxing transfers in which the
transferor has retained until death "the right to income
from" the transferred property

However, the Govern-

ment's position that the annuities were income from propSNor are the assignees like second annuitants in survivorship
annuities or joint annuitants in joint and survivor annuities. The
donor's and donee's annuities have a, common fund as the source .o
that if the source of the donor's annuity is extinguished, the donee's
annuity is destroyed. The entire economic enjoyment of the -econd
annuitant must, realistically speaking, await the death of the' first
annuitant, and a substantial portion of the surviving joint annuitant's
enjoyment is similarly postponed. Cf., e. g., Coimissionerv. Wilder's
Estate, 118 F. 2d 281; Coinm ission r v. Clise. 122 F. 2d 998; AlIearkle's
Estate v. Commissioner, 129 F. 2d 386.
6 Section 811 (c) (1) (C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, as
amended by Section- 7 (a) of the Act of October 25,.1949, c. 720,
63 Stat. 891, 895.
/
7 Section 811 (c) (1) (B) of the Internal R]evenue Code of 1939,
as amended by Section 7 (a) of the Act of October 25, 1949, c. 720, 63Stat. 894. This 'provision was als 6 a part -of Section 302 (c) of the
Revenue Act of 1926 at the time applicable in HelveHfig v. Lc Gierse.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opiion of the Court.

.356 U.S.

- erty

which the insured transferred to her children under
the life insurance policies is not well taken.
To establish its contention: the Government must aggregate the ,premiums of the annuity policies with those
of the life insurance policies and establish that the an" nuity payments \were derived as income from the entire
investment. This pr6position cannot be established.
Admittedly. wheh the policies were purchased, each life
insurance-annuity combination was the product of a
single, integfated trmansaction. However, the parties
neither intended that. nor acted as if, any of the trasactions would have a qualty of indivisibility. Regardless
of the colisiderations prompiiiig the insurance companies
to hedge their life insurance contracts with annuities; each
time an annuity-life insufance .combination was written,
two items of property, an annuity pblicy and an insurance
policy, were transferred to the piiaser. The anriuity
policy c6uld have. beeii acquiredseparately, and the life
insurance policy could :have been, and was, conveyed
separately. The annuities arose from personal obligations of the insurance companies which were'in no way
conditioned. on -the continued existence of the life insdirf
ance contracts. These periodic paymients would havecontinued uninipaired and without dimihution In size"
throughout th6 life of the insured even if the life ilsurance policies had been extinguished! Quite clearly the,
s

Where a decedent, not in contemplation of death, has transferred

property to another in return for a promise to mak periodic payments to the transferor for his lifetime, it has been held that these
payments are not income from thetransferr,.d property so'.as to
include tie property-in the estate of the decedent. E. g.. Estate
of lSarah A. Bergan, 1' T. C. 543, Acq., 1943 Cum. Bull.-2' Security
Trusst & Savings Bank, Trustee, 11 B. T. A. 833- Seymour'Johnson,
10 B. T. A.-4 1; Hirsh v. United States, 68 .Ct. CI. 508, 35 F. 2d 982
(Ct. Cl. 1929); cf. Welch. v. Hall: 134 F. 2d 366. In these cases the

FIDELITY-PHILA. TRUST CO. v. SMITH.
274

281

BURTON, J., dissenting.

annuity payments arose solely from the annuity policies.
The use and enjoyment of the annuity policies were
entirely independent of*the life insurance policies. Because of this independence, the Commissioner may not, by
aggregating the two types of policies into one investment,
conclude that by receiving the annuities, the decedent
.hadrretained income frdm the life insurance contracts.,
Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
leversed.
q1.AIuSTICE BURTON,

.a
udl
i

with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK

.JUSTICE CLARK join, dissenting.

I or tthe -reasons qtated iby .-the- court below, 241 F. 2d
690, mOan;also in Conwy T. (Glenn,4193 F. 2d 965, and
Burw. commissioner, 156 F.. ;2 871,iV seems to me that,
for SAdertl (estate tax purposes, ithis(case is indistinguishable ftom nhe in which a setlkr jilai
a sum in trust
under suh itrms that he shae,
E.mve athe income from"
it for life, ,audthe principal shall be.ay!Vble to designated
beneficiaries upon his death. As the jpiinipal, in that
,event, wo.ld he includable in the salor's estate fo:
federal estate tax purposes, so here thle poceeds of the
Ainsurance palicies g.hotld be included in this decedent's
qeatate. Accordingly. I would affirm the judgment of the
• p~urt of Appeals.
promise is a personal obligation of the transferee, the obligation is
usudlly not chargeable to the transferred.property, and the size of the
payments is not determnined by tbe. size of the actual income fron
the transferred property at -the time the payments are made.
9For Ahe treatment by lower courts ,ofthe life insuranc&annuity
combination in a similar situation in the field of federal income tax,.tion, cf. Commissioner v. Meyer, 139 F. 2d 256; Edna E.Meredith,
1'T. C. M. 847, affirmed, Helvefing v. Meredith, 140 F. 2d 972;
John Koehrer, 4 T. C. M. 219:
458778 0----22

