OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
356 U. S.

Syllabus.

THOMAS v. ARIZONA.
CERTIORARI TO

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE NINTH

COURT

OF APPEALS

CIRCUIT.

No. 88. Argued March 4-5, 1958.-Decided May 19, 1958.
Contending that his state-court conviction of murder was obtained by
use of -a coerced confession in violation of his rights under the
Due Process Clause of the* Fourteenth Anendment, petitioner
applied to a Federal District Court for.a writ of habeas corpus,
'The writ was.denied without a hearing after review of the entire
record. Petitioner claimed that his confession was coerced by fear
of lynching. At the time of his 'arrest, he was lassoed around the
neck and thereafter around either the shoulder or neck by one
and then another local rancher, neither of whom, was officially
connected with -the Sheriff's posse. At the first roping, he was
jerked a few steps in the direction oi the Sheriff's car and the
nearest trees, 200 yards- away; the second roping occurred soon
-thereafter at the 'place where another Negro, whom -petitioner had
accused of the crime, was apprehended. This time he iys pulled
to his knees. On both occasions, the Sheriff immediately removed
the rope and ordered the rancher to desist.. The confession in
issue was made 20 hpurs later, when petitioner was brought before
a Justice of-the Peace for arraignment. The latter read the complaint to petitioner and advised him of his rights, but petitioner
declared that he -was guilty, did not-want a lawyer and had killed
the woman. .During this 20-hour interval, petitioner stoutly
denied his guilt and attempted to imiplicate another suspect, who

subsequently was found to have an unrefuted alibi. In that time
no violence or threat of violence occurred, no promises were made,
and no intimation of mob action existed. Petitioner was then 27
years of age, a veteran, of normal intelligence, and possessed of an
extensive criminal- record. Despite his determination that' this
confession was voluntary, the trial judge found that -two -later confessions by petitioner were procured by fear of lynching and held
them inadmissible. The first confession was distinguished on the
grounds (1) that it was made in the sanctuary of a court of law,
and (2) that it was made in the presence of the Sheriff who protected petitioner at the roping affair. Held: The judgment is
affirmed.

-

Pp. 391-+".

THOMAS v. ARIZONA.
390

Opinion of the Court.

(a) On all the undisputed facts here, petitioner's confession
before the Justice of the Peace is not shown to be the product of
fear, duress or coercion. Pp. 393-402.
. (b) This Court's determination of the character of the first
confession is neither controlled "bythe State's, decision that later confessions were involuntary, nor limited to those factors by which the
State differentiated the first from the later confessions. Pp.
400-401.
(c) Petitioner's reliance on certain disputed facts is misplaced,
for this Court's inquiry' is limited to the undisputed portions
of the record when either the trial judge or the jury, with superior
opportunity to gauge the truthfulness of witnesses' testimony, has
" - found the confession to be voluntary. Pp. 402-403.
.(d) The District Court did not abuse its discretion in denying
the writ of habeas corpus without a hearing. P. 403.
(e) The District Court did not err in considering a transcript
which was filed as an affidavit before that Court, despite the fact
that it was not part of the trial record. Pp. 403-404.
235 F. 2d 775, affirmed.

W. Edward Morgan argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.

-

%

Wesley E. Pollay, Special Assistant Attorney General
of Arizona, afid John G. Pidgeon argued the cause for
respondent. With them~ on the brief were Robert Morrison, Attorney General, and James H. Green, Jr., .Chief
Assistant Attorney General.
MR JuSTICE CLARK delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner has been convicted of first degree murder
and sentenced to death by an Arizona court for the killing
of one Sanie Miscovich. He asks this Court to reverse
S.his conviction on the ground that a confession receivectin evidence at his trial was coerced by fear of lynching,
in violation of his rights .under the Due Process Clause
of'the Fourteenth Amehdment.
The victim, proprietor of a grocery store in Kansas

Settlement, Arizona, was killed while tending her store
on the evening of March 16, 1953. No one witnessed the

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U.S.

crime, but strong circumstantial evidence indicated that
it o~curred between 10 p. m. and 11 p. in., and that peti-.
tioner was responsible. -He was arrested the next day
under circumstances which lend credence to his assertion
of a "putative lynching." The confessioi' at issue, however, was not made until the day following the arrest,
when he was taken before a Justice of the Peace for
preliminary examination.,
After an initial determination of voluntariness, the trial
judge in the Superior Court Of Cochise County, Arizona,
submitted the issue of coercion to the jury under instructions to ignore the confession as evidence unless it was
found)entirely voluntary. A general verdict of guilty was
returned by the jury and accepted 'by the trial court.
The Supreme Court of 'Arizona affirmed, 78 Ariz. 52, 275
P. 2d 408, and we denied certiorari.' 350 U. S.950 (1956).
Petitioner then made application for habeas corpus in the
United States District Court for the District of Arizona.
After reviewing the entire. record, the District Court
'denied the writ without a hearing. The Court of. Appeais
'The State contends preliminarily that petitioner failed to exhaust
his state remedy before seeking habeas in the federal courts, because

his application in this, Court for certiorari to the state court Xwas
not timely. The normal rule that certiorari must be'applied for here
after a state conviction before habeas is sought in the District
Court, Dat"v. Burford, 339 U. S. 200 (1950), is not inflexible, however, and in special circumstances nebd not be complied with. Darrv.
Burford, supra, at 210. "Whether such circumstances exist calls for
a factual appraisal by the [District Court] in each special situation.
Determination of this issue, like others, is largely left to the trial
courts- spbject to appropriate review by the courts of appeals."
Frisbie v. Collins, 342 U. S. 519, 521 (1952). Petitioner's failure
to timely apply for certiorari was noted by the District Court in
this case, but expressly was stated not to bethe basis for its denial
of habeas. Since that court and the Court of Appeals considered
petitioner's application on the merits, we are not inclined at this
late. date to consider the procedural defect a fatal error.

THOMAS -v. ARIZONA.
390

Opinion of the Court.

affirmed, 235 F. 2d 775, and we granted certiorari because
of the seriousness of petitioner's allegatiqns under the"
Due -Process Clause. 352 U. S. 1024. An exhaiistive
review of the record, however, impels us to conclude that
petitioner's confession was f'the expfression of free choice,"
Watts v) Indiana, 338 U. 5: 49, 53.(1949), and not the
product of fear, duress, or coercion.
The prosecution's use of a coerced confession first led
to this Court's reversdf of a state conviction in Brown v.
Mississippi, 297 U. S. 278- (1936). Our resolution of
similar claims in subsequent cases makes clear that "the
question whether there has been a violation of the-due
process -clause of. the Fourteenth Amnendihent by the introduction of an involuntary confession is one on which
we. must make -an. independent determination on the
undisputed facts." Malinski v. New York, 324 U. 9. 401,
404 (1945). No encroachment of the traditional jury
function results, for the issue of coercion, unlike the basic
facts on which -coercion is ascertained, involves the application of constiltutional standards of fundamental fairness
under the Fourteenth Amendment. See Brown v.'Allen,
344 U. S.443, 507 (1953) (concurring opinion), In each
instance our iniquiry must weigh the "circumstandes of
pressure against the -power of resistance of the person
confessing." .Fikes v. Alabama, 352 U. S.191, 197 '(1957),
quoting Stein v. New York, 346 U. S.156, 185 (1953).
We turn then tc the undisputed portions of the-record
to ascertain the facts against which petitioner's claim of
coercion must be measured.
I.
Petitioner is an itinerant Negro laborer who lived with
his common-law wife and four other Negroes, including one Ross Lee' Cooper, a 17-year-old boy, in an old
barracks provided by his employer about a half mile from
the victim's store. Petitioner is a Navy veteran, 27*years
4 W7&0-5&---29

394"-"

OCTOBER TEAM, 1957.
Opinion of the- Court.

-

356 U. S.

old a- the time of the murder,.ivith a partial high school
education. --He had a criminal record of three different
convictions, the-most serious -being a five-year larceny,
-sentence, 'as well as two terms in the Navy brig for twice
being absent without leave from his service post.
The body of Janie Miscovich vas found Tuesday morn-

ing, March 17. A supplier noti6ed smoke coming from
-the store and surinimned the help of three men constructing a building nearby, one of whom was petitioner. Petitioner did nothingto assist in putting out the4ire, and left
the scene before the victim's body was discovered, declaring that he "never could stand the stench of burning
flesh." Although the body was severely beaten and
burned, death was .attributed to knife, wounds in the
h.rt, inflicted with a large'knife found later in the stoke.
Preliminary investigation by local police disclosed that
petitioner and Cooper were at the store together Monday
afternoon and evening. After -they eturned to the bar'racks, at approximately 8:30 p. in., petitioner left again
by hi self, returning around midnight. \A trail of blood
"and fitprirfts was traced from the stor to within 50
yards -of the- barracks, where a strip of freshly harrowed
grouiid made further tracking impossible.' -Blood .spots
were found in the kitchen of the barracks, and two'bloody
gloves were found hidden near the barrackA. Both gloves
ivere for the right hand and one of them vas slit across
the middle, ring and little fingers. Matching gloves were
found in the store, where nine pairs plus t*¢o gloves for
the left hand remained out of 12'pairs of glo.yes stocked
by Janie Miseoyich on Monday.- The oily .pair of shoes
petitioner owned, found under his bed in the barracks,
exactly matched the 13 -inch footprints trailed to the,
barracks. He had returned to the barracls"after, discovery of the fire and exchanged his shoes for a pair of
old work boots he got."out of thp trash pile." -

THOMAS v. ARIZONA.'
390

Opinion of the Court.

iI.
A posse of 12 to 15 men headed by the Sheriff of
Cochise County apprehended petitioner Tuesday at
3 p. m. lying under a pasture brush pile over 200 yards
from the road and about 11/! miles from Kansas Settlement. Three fingers of his right hand had been severely
cut, matching the slits in the bloody glove found outside
the barracks.
Petitioner was placed under arrest by the Sheriff and
handcuffed by a-state highway patrolman with the posse.
When asked by the Sheriff "why he had killed the
woman," petitioner asserted that he had not killed her,
but that he could take the posse to the man who had
done so, aicusing Cooper of the murder. He also stated
that he had cut his hand on a can. At this point a local
rancher on horseback, who had no 6fficial connection with'
the Sheriff'W posse, lassoed petitioner around the neck
and jerked him a few steps in the general direction -of
both the Sheriff's car and the nearest trees, some 200
yards away:*The Sheriff quickly intervened, removed
the rope, and admonished, "Stop that. We will, have
none of that . . . ." There was no talk of lynching
among the other members of the posse.
The Sheriff th6n put :petitioner and two other men in
his car and drove a few miles south where petitioner
directed him in search- of Cooper. They found Cooper
working in a field about half a mile off' the road. The
Sheriff borrowed a horse from a member of the possewhicl had followed the Sheriff's car-and rode alone
across the field to arrest Cooper. As he was bringing
Cooper back ,to the car, a second rancher on horseback
roped Cooper around the waist and led him along. When
they reached the car,- the Sheriff" removed the rope.
Petitioner, who had a full view of Cooper's apprehension,

.396

OCTOBER TERM,I957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

got out of the car and identifiedCooper as the Miscovich
killer.
'Cooper was handcuffed and standing beside petitioner
when the rancher responsible for Cooper's roping lassoed
both men, cgtching them either by their shoulders or their
necks and pulling them down'to their knees. The Sheriff,
looking "kind of mad," reacted "immediately," removing'
the rope and shouting,. "Hey, stop that. We will have no
more of' that." Two or three- other men joined the
Sheriff in ,protesting the third roping incident. No trees
at all could be seen froni the location of these last two
ropings, and no mention orthreat of lynching was heard.
By 4:30 p. m. both prisoners had.been pIaced in the
Sheriff's car. They were taken directly to Willcox, the
nearest town with a Justice Court, for preliminary examination in compliance with Arizona law.2 However, the
judge, who was 'also a school bus driver, already had
.departed on the .evening .run. Before leaving Willcox,.
the Sheriff stopped briefly at the local mortuary., where
the body of the murder victim was shown to both suspects. 'The prisoners then were taken to Bisbee, site'of
the county jail and courthouse. Arriving there after closing time of the nearest Justice Court, the Sheriff took
them'to nearby Warren for questioning by the County
Attorney.
It was 6.p: m. when the Sheriff and his prisoners
reached the home of the County Attorney,.whom a prior
hijury had confiied to a fuli body cast and stretcher.
Petitioner'and Cooper were placed together In a back
bedroom under guard of an armed deputy, but each 'ias
"An officer' who has arrested a 'person without a warrant ' shall
without unnecessary deMay take the person arrested before the nearest
or most accessible-magistrate in the county in which the arrest occurs,,
and shall *make before the magistrate a complaint, which' shall set
forth the facts showing.the offense'for which the person was arrested.
Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ahn., 1956, § 13-1418.
2

THOMAS v. ARIZONA.
390

-397

Opinion of the Court..

separately quizzed for an hour in a front room. Petitioner was questioned solely by the County Attorney,
though six other men, some of whom were armed, .were
present.' Petitioner was barefoot; his shoes had been
seized as evidence in the case, and there'were nio shoes at
the jail large enough to fit himi.
He wore the same coveralls in which he was arrested. The-County Attorney first
identified each man in the room, assured- petitioner that
no threats and no promises would be m ad, "'explained to
him his rights," and told him to tell the truth. No force
was used or threatened against either prisoner. While
petitioner's statement was never tendered in 6vidnce.
at the trial, it was filed with the United States I)istriet
Court in the habeas proceeding as proof of his composure
on the very -day of his arrest. The statement included
petitioner's stout denial- of any responsibility for the
murder, and a detailed- story designed' to incriminate
Cooper, a young and backwafd boy called:"Baby John." '
Petitioner claimed to have returned to the store with
Cooper a second time the night before, and to have waited
outside while Cooper entered the store to buy beer.
Upon hearing screams, petitioner said he rushed inside,
found Cooper.holding a knife over the woman, cut his.
hand trying to seize the knife from Cooper, and then ran
back to the bafracks, leaving Cooper with the woman.
He illustrated the story in some detail by tracing his
movements with crayons on a diagram of the Miscovich
store.
At 9 p. in., the Cochise County Under-Sheriff took
petitioner to a hospital where his hand was treated, ind
-Th6 Sheriff, the Under-Sheriff, a court reporter, a police photoirapher; and two County Attorney's deputies.
.! ' A young mother living in the barracks who sat up all Monday
night with her sick. child completely discredited petitioner's story
by her unshaken testimony that Cooper never left the barracks
again after returning with petitioner about 8:30 p. m.

:398

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

at 10 p. m. left him at the county jail. i Later the Sheriff
stopped by petitioner's cell, but nothing was said aside
from the Sheriff's inqtiry as to "how he was feeling."
At 11:30 a. m. the next morning, Wednesday, March .18,
the Sheriff brought petitioner before the Lowell Justice
Court for preliminary examination. Petitioner was barefoot, and remained so until the Sheriff bought him a pair
of shoes. Prior to leaving the jail for court, the Sheriff
gave petitioner a pack of cigarettes. Upon further
inquiry as to how he was feeling, petitioner complained
of his hand injury, and the Sherift said he would see that.
it was dressed again.
When petitioner arrived at the court, three other men,
were conducting business with the Justice of the Peace,
delaying petitioner's hearing for five minutes until they
finished and departed. Then, in the presence of the
Sheriff,' Deputy Sheriff, and a female secretary, Justice
of the Peace Frazier read the complaint to petitioner,
advised him of his rights to prehiminary hearing and -to
counsel,5 told him the hearing could be waived, and
instructed him that'he could plead guilty or not guilty as
he chose, but that a guilty plea Would automatically
waive the preliminary. Petitioner immediately replied
with the oral confession in issue here: "I am guilty. I
don't need any lawyer. I killed the woman." Judge
Frazier asked if the murder was committed with an axe.
Petitioner said, "No. I killed her with a knife."
Immediately thereafter, the Sheriff again took petitioner to the home of the County Attorney, where a
5 Out of the jury's presence during the initial inquiry of the trial
court into the coercion issue, Judge Frazier testified that he told
petitioner the Superior Court would appoint an attorney for him,
but that he said nothing'about appointing an attorney himself for
the preliminary examination in the Justice Court. Subsequently,
testifying before the jury, he stated that petitioner was told of a
"right to counsel before his preliminary in Justice Court."

.THOMAS v. ARIZONA.
390

399

Opinion of, the Court.

detailed confession was made in the presence of the
County Attorney, his secretary, the Sheriff, and a Deputy
Sheriff. Just as he had the night. before; the County
Attorney identified those present and- told petitioner
that no threats or pr6mises would be made. He also
warned petitioner th'at the secretary would record everything said, and .concluded, "You don't have to talk to
me. if you don't want to, but you can, if you will, tell
me in your own words, -in your own free will, just what
took place- out at Kansas Settlement." Later in. the
afternoon, after his return to the jail, petitioner was taken
downstairs to the County Attbrnek's courthouse officd,
where in the presence of.five people I he read through and
signed the typed iranscript of his confession at the-County
Attorney's home..
Either the next day, Thursday, March 19,"or else
Friday, March 20 (the record being inconclusive); a newspaper reporter visited petitioner in jail. At the trial he
testified jetitioner seemed nervous and afraid.' Petitioner indicated that he'd been "roughed up"' and that the
Sheriff had saved his life. At thk reporter's request,, he
posed for a picture with the Sheriff. Petitioner asked the
Sheriff on Thursday to ibe moved to a part of the jail
where he could be by himself, and the Sheriff said he
would try to arrange it,On the same day, the Sheriff
took petitioner to a doctor for additional treatment of
his hand.
The third and last confession was 'taken down on
Friday, March 20, in the County Attorney's office in the.
presence of seven men, including a Deputy United States
Marshal.7 After the same preliminary precautions as
6

The Sheriff, two Deputy Sheriffs, a County, Attorney's" deputy,
and the County Attorney's secretary.
7 Others present were ie 'Under-Sheriff, a Deputy Sheriff, the
-County Attoiney, two County Attorney's deputies, and a court
reporter.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opini6n of the Court.

"356 U. S.

preceded petitioner's statements Ttiesday night and
Wednesday afternoon, the Counts Attorney obtained a
detailed confession. Several days later, on April 1, the;
IV.arshal met alone with petitioner and had him read the
transcript of this last confession, telling-him to-initial
the bottom of :eachpage if, and -only if, the material
thereon' was .true. After an hour's reading, petitioner
initialed all the pages.
The *ritten confessions, signed- on the 18th and- the
1st, were found "procured by threat of lynch" and
declared involuntary by the trial judge after his preliminary inquiry. Although the oral cofifession before the
Justice of the Peace vas made between the time of the
ropings and the written cbnfessions; the trial judge made
an initial determination that.it was voluntary. He justified -this seeming incongruity on the basis o"the different
cir'umstance under which the oral staterment wag made,
namely, the judicial surroindings and the presence of the
Sheriff with only one other deputy,- the Sheriff being
"the very man who had protected [petitioner] ."'
I.
Deplorable'as these ropings are to the spirit of a
civilized administration of justice, the undisputed. facts'
befor6 us do not show that petitioner's oral statement was
a product of fear engendered by them. Arizona's determination that the writen confessions were involuntary
cannot control the separate constitutional inquiry posed.
by the character of the. oral confession. And since ours
is to be an independent resolution of -the issue of coercidn,
the range of our inquiry, is not limited to. those factors
which differentiate the oral from the written confessdonq.The inquiry to-be made here, primary in-both time a-d"
logic, is. the voluntainess of the oral confession, which

-

THOMAS .v. ARIZONA.'
390

Opinion of the Court.

was admitted into evidence. Consequently we do not
consider the subsequent confessions.
Coercion here is posited solely-up6n--the roping jnci-,
dents. There is fi .claim and no evidence of phyt;ical
beating, as in Brown v. Mississippi,297 U. S. 278 (19:36);
of continuous-relay questioning, as in Watts v. Indiana,
338 U.-S. 49 (1949); of incommunicado detefifion, as in
Fikes v. Alabama, 352 U. S. 191 (1957); or of psychiatric
inducement, as in Leyra v. Denno, 347 U. S. 556 (1954).
Petitioner is neither of tender age, as was the accused
in Haley v. Ohio, 332 U. S. 596 (1948), nor of subnormal
intelligence, as was the defendant in Fike's v. Alabama,
supra. Nor, in view of his extensive criminal record, can
he be thought an impressionable stranger'to the processes
of law.
The 20-hour interval between the time of the ropiigs
and'petitioner's oral confession was devoid of all coercive
influences other than the sight of the victim's bo dy.
No tlir~ats were made, no promises offered, no' force
used, and no intimation of mob action existent. Petitioner's own activity during the crucial 20 hours is
eloquent rebuttal of the contention that he Was a man
dominated by fear. At the logical height 'of oppression, during the ropihgs themselves, petitioner stoutly
denied the offense and attempted to put the-police on
the tra{l of Cooper. That very evening he reiterated
8Unlike many cases where- this Court has found coercion, there
apparently *as no failure here to comply with the state statute
requiring that a prisoner 'be 'taken before a magistrate without
unnecessary delay after the arrest. Contrast, e. g., Fizkes v. Alabama,
352 'U. S. 191 .(1957); Watts v. Indiana, 33$ U. S. 49 :1949);
Malinski v. New York, 324 U. S. 401 (1945); Ward v,Texas, 316
U. S.. 547 (1942). The Arizona statute, see note 2, supra, was
construed in State v. Johnson, 69 Ariz. 203, 21 /P. 2d 469,. where
the accused apparently was not taken'before a magistrate until the
morning following his. 5 p. m. arrest.

. 402

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

his position in a detailed story of "Cooper's guilt and his
own innocence, notwithstanding Cooper's presence with
him in the same ' house. Even though petitioner appeared
apprehensive and woriied to a newspaperman twb or thre6
days after the oral statement, his demeanor. b bh at the
County Attorney's home the night of his arrest and before
the Justice Court the next morning bespoke complete
voluntariness -to other witnesses, inicluding Judge Frazier.
Nothing in the undisputed record seriously substantiates
the contention that a fear engendered by the ropings overbore petitioner's free will at the tine he appeared in the
Justicq Court.. His- statement appears to be the spontaneous exclamation of a guilty conscience.
Petitioner relies heavily on the testim6ny of the state
patrolnan who was present at the first roping. He testified that wheii petitioner was -first roped, the Sheriff said,
"Will you' tell the truth, or-I will let them go ahead and
do this." Petitioner argues that this -testimony completely negates the Sheriff's role as petitioner's "protector," eliminating one of the two factors by: which the
trial judge distinguished the oral frqm the other confessions. The Sheriff, however, expressly denied making
any-such statement, and all other- witnesses of the first
roping agreed that. no such threat ever was uttered.
Whatever the merits of this dispute, our inquiry clearly.
is limited to a study of the, undisputed portions of the
record. "[T] here has been complete agreement that any
conflict in testimony, as to what actually led. to a contested confession is not this Court's concern. Such conflict
comes here authoritatively resolved [against petitioner]
by the Stdte's adjudication." Watts v. Indiana, 338
Time and again we have refused
U. S. 49,51-52- (1949)_
9 The "[state] adjudication" upon which ihis rule turns is that of
the trial judge in this case. While the general verdict of guilty is'not
instructive here as to the jury's view on the issue of coercion, the

THOMAS v. ARIZONA.
'390

Opinion of the Court.

to consider disputed facts when determining the issue of
coercion. See Gallegos v. Nebraska, 342 U. S.55, .60-1
(1951); Haley v. Ohio, 332 U. S.596, 597-598 (1948);
Ward v. Texas, 316 U. S. 547 (1942). The rationaie
behind such exclusion, of course, lies in the superior
opportunity of trial court and jury to observe the witnesses and weigh the fleeting intangibles which may indicate truth or falsehood. We abide by the wisdom of
that reasoning.
IV.
Petitioner has an alternative' prayer that his case be
remanded *to the District Court for a plenary heating
on the issue of coercion. There is no"merit, however, to
his contention that the District Court erred in denying the
writ on the basis of the record without a full hearing. The
granting of a .learing is within the discretion of the
District Court, &,own v. Allen, 344 U. S. 443, 463-465
(1953), afid no abuse of that discretion appears here.
Petitioner also urgps that the District Court erred in
considering the transcript'. of' his interrogation in the
County Attorney's home after his arrest. As stated
above, that tra'.script never was made part of the
record in the case. The State, however, filed it as an
affidavit before the District Court. Petitioner asserts
error because, in the absence of any hearing, he had no
opportunity to rebut the affidavit. It does not appear,
however, that petitioner made any objection in the Disjudge made an initial determination of voluntariness before submitting the confession to the jury. That preliminary finding occurred
prior to the highway patrolman's testimony, but a motion for mistrial
by defense counsel immediately after the conflict arose was denied
before the case went to the jury. Therefore, we need not decide,
whether the mere fact of conviction, absent a more specific adjudica-tion of voluntariness, would suffice to invoke the rule foreclosing
assessment of the disputed facts.

-404.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

trict Court, nor did he file any counter-affidavit. Moreover, thWe substance of the transcript-petitioner's denial
of guilvand attempt to implicate Cooper just three hours
*after-the ropings-:-appears at other places in the record.
We fail to see h6-wv prejudice could have resulted.
Affirme4.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE

DOUGLAS, and Me.JUSTICE BRENNAN dissent.

