NISHIKAWA v. DULLES.
Syllabus.

NISHIkAWA v., DULLES, SECRETARY OF STATE.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE NINTH- CIRCUIT.

No. 19, Argued May 1-2, 1957.-Restorea to the calendar for
reargument June 24, 1957.-Reargued October 28, 1957.Decided March 31, 1958.
Petitioner was a native-born citizen of the United States and he
was considered by Japan to be a citizen of that country because
his parents were Japanese citizens. In 1939, he went to Japan,
intending to stay between two and five years risiting and studying.
In 1941, he was conscripted into the Japanese Army, and he served
in that Army while Japan was at war with the United States.
After the war, he applied for an American passport but was given
instead a certificate of loss of nationality.. He sued for a declaratory
judgment that he was a citizen of the United States. This was
denied because the district judge did nrt believe his testimony
that his service in the Japanese Army was involuntary. Petitioner
alone testified at the trial. The Government introduced no testimony, and its only affirmative evidence was that petitioner went
to Japan at a time when he was subject to conscription. Held:
The evidence was not sufficient to establish petitioner's loss of
citizenship under § 401 (c) of the Nationality Act of 1940 as a
result of his entering and serving in the armed forces of a foreign
state. Pp. 130-138.
(a) No conduct results in expatriation unless the conduct is
engaged in voluntarily. P. 133.
(b) When a citizenship claimant proves his birth in this country
or "acquisition of American citizenship in some other way, the
burden is upon the Government to prove an act that shows expatriation by clear, convincing and unequivocal evidence; and this rule
governs cases under all subsections of § 401. P. 133.,
(c) Because the consequences of denationalization are so drastic,,
the burdem-s upon the.Government of persuading the trier of fact
by clear, convincing and unequivocal evidence that the act showing
renunciation of citizenship was performed voluntarily whenever
the question of voluntariness is put in issue. Pp. 133-137.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

(d) On the rec6rd in this case, the Government has not sustained
the burden of establishing the voluntary conduct that is an essential
ingredient of expatriation. Pp. 137-138.
235 F. 2d 135, reversed.

Fred -Okrand argued the cause for petitioner on the
original- argument, A. L. Wirin on the reargtiment, and
both were on the briefs.
Oscar H. Davis argued the cause'for respondent. With
him on the briefs were Solicitor General Rankin, Warren
Olney, III, then Assistant Attorney General, and Beatrice
Rosenberg. "J.F. Bishop was also with them on the brief
on the reargument.
MR. CHIEF JUST/CE WARREN delivered the opinion of

the Court.
In this, the third of the denationalization cases decided
today, issues concerning Section 401 (c) of the Nationality Act of 1940 are presented.- That statute provides:
"A person who is a national of the United States,
whether by birth or .naturalizati.on, shall lose his
nationality by:
"(c) Entering, or serving in, the armed forces of
a foreign state unless expressly authorized by the
laws of 'the United States, if he has or acquires the
-nationality of such foreign state ...

1

We need not in this case-consider the constitutionality
of Section 401 (c). This case thus differs from Perez v.
Brownell, ante, p. 44, and Trap v. Dulles, ante, p. 86,
54 'Stat. 1168, 1169. The present provision, Immigration and
Nationality Act of -1952, § 349 (a) (3), 66 Stat. 267, 268, 8 U. S. C.
§ 1481 (a)(3), eliminates the necessity that the expatriate have or
acquire the nationality of the foreign state.

NISHIKAWA v., DULLES.
129

Opinion of the Court.

where questions of the constitutionality of Sections
401 (e) and 401 (g) were determined. The issues with
which we are concerned here relate solely to problems of'
burden of proof.
Petitioner brought this action in a District Court praying for a judgment declaring him to be a citizen of the
United States. : The controversy arose from petitioner's
application-to a United States Consulate in Japan for an
American passport, Instead of the passport, he received
more than a year later a Certificate of the Loss of
the Nationality of the United States. Petitioner alone
testified at the'trial, the Government introdubing no testimony. What follows is a summary of his testimony.
Petitioner was born in Artesia, California, in 1916. By
reason of that fact, he was a citizen of the United States,
and because of the citizenship of his parents, he was also
-considered by Japan to be a citizen of that country.
Petitioner was educated in the schools of this country
and lived here until 1939. In August of that year, having been graduated. fronr the University of California with
a degree in engineering, .he went to Japan; intending to'
stay between two and five years, visiting and studying.
He knew that his father had registered him in the family
register in Japan. In November of 1939* petitioner's
father, who was paying his' way,, died in this country and
petitioner, lacking funds, went to work for an air-,raft
manufacturing company in Japan for the equivalent of
$15 a month. He was unable to accumulate any.savings.
Pursuant to the Military Service Law of Japan, petitioner
was required ibout June 1940 to take a physical examination, and 'on March 1, 1941, he was inducted into the
Japanese Army. The Military Service .Law, provided
for imprisonment for' evasion. Between the time of his
physical examination and his induction, petitioner did
not protest his iplduction or attempt to renounce his.

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

Japanese nationality, to return to the United States- or
to secure the aid of United States consular officials. He
testified that he was told by a friend who worked at the
American Embassy that the American Consulate could
not aid a dual national; the Government has not contended that this was not so. He further testified that he
had heard rumors about the brutality of the Japanese
secret police which made him afraid to make any protest.
Petitioner testified that he did not know when he went
to Japan that he was likely to be drafted. He said he was
not aware at that time of any threat of war between the
United States and Japan. He had left the-United States
just prior to the outbreak of war in Europe and two years
and four months before Pearl Harbor. He. testified that
he was unable to read the Japanese language and lived.too
far out in the country to subscribe to an English-language
newspaper, and therefore did not read any newspapers
- while in Japan.
Petitioner served as a maintenance man or mechanic
in. an Air Force regiment in China, Indo-China, the
Philippines and Manchuria. He testified that when war
between the United States and Japan began, he expressed
the opinion to a group of noncommisioned officers that
there was no chance of Japan's winning the war. That
-night he was given a thorough beating; he was beaten
almost every day for a month, and afterwards he was
beaten "a couple days a month." He won the nickname
"America."
. After hearing this testimony, the district judge announced from the bench that "the court simply does not
believe the testimony of the witness. That is all. I
simply do not believe his testimony." He went on to
express his opinion that petitioner "went over because as
a Japanese citizen under the laws of Japan it was neces-"
sary for him to serve his hitch in the army..... He went
over and he waited until they reached him on" the draft,

NISHIKAWA v. DULLES.
129

Opinion of the Court.

and when they did he was drafted." Formally, the court
found as a fact on the basis of petitioner's testimony alone,
which did not include an admission to that effect, that his
"entry and service in the Japanese Armed Forces was his
free and voluntary act." Therefore he was held to have
lost his nationality under Section 401 (c) and judgment
was rendered for respondent. The Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit affirmed that judgment.' We granted
certiorari. 352 U. S. 907.
Whatever divergence of view there may be as to what
conduct may, consistent With the Constitution, be said to
result in loss of nationality, cf. Perez V. Brownell, ante,
pp. 44, 62, it is settled that no conduct results in expatriation unless the conduct is engaged in voluntarily.
Mandoli v. Acheson, 344-U. S. 133.1 The Government
does not contend otherwise. Likewise, the parties are
agreed that when a citizenship claimant proves his birth
in this country or acquisition of American citizenship in
some other way, the burd6n is upon the Government to
prove an act that shows expatriation by clear, convincing
and unequivocal evidence. In Gonzales v. Landoh, 350
U. S. 920, we held that the rule as to .burden of proof
in denaturalization cases' applied to expatriation cases
under Section 401 (j) of the Nationality Act of 1940. Wenow conclude that the same rule should govern cases under
all the subsections of Section 401..
The parties disagree as to whether the Government
must also prove that the expatriating act was voluntarily
performed or whether the citizenship claimant bears the
235 F. 2d 135.
3See also, e. g., Acheson v. Murata, 342 U. S. 900; Acheson v.
Okimura, 342 U. S. 899; Dos Reis ex rel. Camara v. Nicolls, 161
F. 2d 860; 41 Op. Atty. Gen., No. 16.
I Baumgartner v. United States, 322 U. S. 665; Schneiderman v.
United States, 320 U. S. 118.
2

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.-

356 U. S.

burden of proving that his act was involuntary.' Petitioner contends that voluntariness is an element of the
expatriating act, and as such must be proved by the Government. The Government, on the other hand, relies
upon the ordinary rule that duress is a matter of affirmative defense'and contends that the party claiming that he
acted' involuntarily must overcome a presumption of
voluntariness.
Because the consequences of denationalization are so
drastic petitioner's contention as to burden of. 1roof of
voluntariness should be. sustained. This Court has said
that in a denaturalization case, "instituted . . . for the
purpose of depriving one of the precious right of citizenship previously conferred we believe.the facts and the
law should be construed as far as is. reasonably possible
in favor of the citizen." _Schneiderman v. United States,
5 Gonzales v. Landon, 350 U. S. 920; Acheson v. Murata, 342
U. S. 900, and Acheson v. Okimura, 342 U: S. 899, are not dispositive
of the issue. The holding in Gonzales went to the Government's
burden of proof in general without specific regard to voluntariness.
Murata and Okimura came here on appeal from a District Court's
holding that various subsections of § 401 were unconstitutional. 99
F. 'lupp. 587, 591. We remanded for specific findings as to the circumstances attending - the alleged- acts of expatriation and the
reasonable inferences to. be drawn therefrom.
.In Bruni, v. Dulles, 98 U. S. App: D. C. 358, 235 F. 2d 855, the
Court of Appeals for tlhe District of Columbia Circuit considered
Gonzales as requiring the Government to .prove voluntariness by
clear, convincing and unequivocal evidence. Lehmann v. Acheson,
206 F. 2d 592, can also be read as placing that burden on the Government. It is clear, at least, that the Third Circuit, Lehmann v.
Acheson, supra; Perriv. Dulles, 206 F. 2d 586, as well as the Second
Circuit, Augello v. Dulles, 220 F. 2d 344, regards con,8cription as
creating a presumption of involuntariness which the Government
must rebut. The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Qircuit took a cojtrary view prior to Bruni v. Dulles, supra. Alata
v. Dulles, 9,. U. S. App. D. C. 182, 221 F. 2d 52; Acheson v. Maenza
92 U. S. App. D. C. 85, 202- F. 2d 453.

NISHIKAWA v. DULLES.
129

Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S. 118,. 122.6 The same principle applies to expatriation cases, and it calls for placing upon the Govern-

ment the burden of persuading the trier of fact by clear,

convincing and unequivoqal evidence that the act showing renunciation of citizenship was voluntarily performed.
While one finds in -the legislative history of Section 401,

and particularly Section 401 (c),. recognition of the concept of voluntariness,7 there is no discussion of-the problem of the burden of proof.

What is clear is that the

House Committee which considered the bill rejected a
proposal to enact a conclusive presumption of voluntariness in the case of dual nationals ntering or serving in
the military forces of the nation of their second nation-

ality.8

It is altogether consonant with this history to

See also United States v. Minker, 350 U. S. 179, 197 (concurring
opinion): "When we deal with citizenship we tread on sensitive
ground:"
7
See Hearings before the House Committee on Iramigration and
Naturalization on H. R. 6127, superseded by H. R. 9980, 76th Cong.,
1st Sess. 150, 201.
8 The proposal was advanced by the State Department spokesman,
Mr. Flournoy, who said:
"If a man is a citizen of the United States and Japan, both countries,
as he would be in all of these cases we have'been discussing, and
he is living in Japan, and he reaches the military age, and they call
him for service, it should not make any difference from our point of
-view whether he makes a protest or not. It is -his duty to serve.
- He is in that country, and he is a citizen of that country, and if we
accept his plea of duress in these cases it practicilly nullifies the
whole thing, so we should- put a -proviso in reading somewhat as
follows: That if an American national also has the nationality of a
foreign country and is residing therein at a time when he reaches the
age foi liability of military service his entry into the armed forces
.thereof shall be pregumed to be voluntary. In 'other words, a plea
of difress would not make any difference. He is a citizen of that
country,' and he is presumed to know that when the time comes
he will have to serve:" Id., at 150.
Spokesmen for the Labor and Justice Departments objected, stating
that dual nationals should have the opportuniiy to be heard. on
6

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

place.upop the Government the burden of proving voluntariness. The Court has said that "Rights of citizenship are not to be destroyed by an ambiguity." Perkins v.
Elg, 307 U. S. 325, 337. The reference was to an ambiguity in a treaty, but the principle there stated demands
also that evidentiary ambiguities are not to be resolved
against the citizen.
Finally, the Government contends that-even if it has
the burden of proving voluntariness by clear, convincing
and. unequivocal evidence, that burden has been met in
this case. What view the District Court took of the
burden of proof does not clearly appear. The Court of
Appeals seemed at ,one point to accept the evidence in
the District Court as sufficient even on the view of the
burden of proof as above stated." That conclusion is not
supportable. Of course, the citizenship claimant is subject to the rule dictated by common experience that one
ordinarily acts voluntarily. Unless voluntariness is put
in issue,,the Government makes its.case simply by proving
the. objective expatriating act. But here petitioner
showed that he was conscripted in a totalitarian country
to whose conscription law, with its penal sanctions, he was
subject. This adequately-injected the issue of voluntariness and required the Government to sustain its burden
the question of duress.. Id., at 150-156; .169-170; 200-203. At the
time of the hearings § 401 (c) was not limited to dual nationals. The
Senate Committee inserted the limitation. See 86 Cong. Rec. 12817.
.The Court of Appeals for the First Circuit has correctly concluded
that little significance attaches to the failure of the House Committee
*to accept a suggestion that the word "voluntarily" be inserted in sub-

section's (b) through (g) of § 401. Hearings, supra, at 397-398.
"It seems to us that the failure, of the committee to accept this
amendment ii of little significance in view of the legislative history . . . indicating that such amendment was unnecessary and
superfluous." Dos Reis ex rel. Camarav. Nicolls, 161-F. 2d,860, 864,
n. 4.
9235 F. 2d, at 140. But see id., at 141.

NISHIKAWA v. ,DULLES.
129

Opinion of the Court.

of proving -voluntary conduct by clear, convincing and
unequivocal evidence.' The Government has, not sustained that burden on this record. 'The fact that petitioner made no protest' and did not seek aid of American
officials--efforts that,, for all that appears, would have
been in vain-does not'satisfy the requisite standard of'
proof. Nor can the district judge's disbelief of petitioner's story of his motives and fears .fill the evidentiary
gap in the Governmenit's case. .The Government's only
affirmative evidence was that petitioner-went to Japan
at'a time when he Was subject to conscription.'
On-this record the Government has not established the
voluntary- conduct that is .the essential ingredient of
expatriation. "Thefact that 'this petitioner, after being*
conscripted, was ordered into adtive service in wartime.
on the 'side of a fQrmer enemy of this country must not
be permitted to divert our attention from the necessity
'of maintaining a -strict standard of proof in all .expatriation cases. When the Government contends that the basic
right of citizenship has been lost, it'assumes an -onerous
burden of proof. Regardless of what conduct'is alleged
10 Petitioner's evidence or conscription also dispelled -the presump-

tion created -by §.402 of the Natioriality Act of 1940, 54 Stat.. 1169,that a national .who remains six months or more within the country
of which either he or his parents .have been national, has expatriated hinm.self under- § 401 (c) 'r (d). Even jf valid, "Section 402
does not enlarge § 401 (c) or (d)," Kawakita v. United States, 343.
U. S. 717, 730, and; like the analogous provision of § 2 of the Act
of March 2, 1907, 34 Stat. 1228, it creates !'a presuimption easy, to
preclude, and easy to overcome." United States v: Gay, 264 U. S.
353, 358. The ambiguous terms of § 402 have since been superseded
by,§ 349 (b) of the. Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, 66
Stat. 268, 8 U. 'S.C. § 1481 (b), which establishes a conclusive presumption of voluntariness on the part of a dual national who performs an expatriating act if he had resided in the state of his second
nationality an aggregate- of ten years or. more immediately prior
.thereto. Of course, the new; statutory presumption is not in issue
in this case and'there is no need tb consider its validity.
459778 O-58---13

-

.OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of

BLACK,

J.

356 U. S.'

to result in expatriation, whenever the issue of voluntariness is put in issue, the Government must in each case
prove voluntary conduct by clear,- convincing and
unequivocal evidence.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and
the cause is remanded to the District Court for further
proceedings consistefit with this opinion.
Reversed and reminded.

-

MR. JUSTICE BLACK, with whom MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS
joins.
While I concur in the opinion of the Court i add the
following to state what I conceive to be the controlling
constitutional principles in this and other- expatriation
cases.
The Fourteenth Amendment declares that "All persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject
to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United
States and of the State wherein they reside." Nishikawa
was born in this country while subject to its jurisdiction;
therefore American citizenship is his constitutional birthright. See United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S.
649. What the Constitution has conferred neither the
Congress, nor the Executive, nor the-Judiciary, nor all
three in concert, may strip away. AlthouglY Congress canenact laws punishing those who shirk their duties as citizens or those who jeopardize our relations with foreign
countries it cannot involuntarily expatriate any citizen.
As THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS explain
in their dissenting opinions in Perez v Brownell, ante, pp.
62, 79, this results not only frforfi the provisions of the
Fourteenth Amendment but from the manner in which
the Government of the United States was formed, the
fundamental political principles which underlie its exist-,
ence, and its continuing relationship to the citizhnrv who

NISHIKAWA v. DULLES.
129

FRANKFURTER,

.139

J., concurring -in result.

erected and maintain it. Cf. Osborn v. Bank of the United
States, 9 Wheat. 738, 827. In my view the notion that
citizenship can be snatched away whenever such deprivation bears some "rational nexus" to the implementation of
a power granted Congress-by the Constitution is a dangerous and frightening proposition. By this standard a
citizen could be transformed into a stateless outcast for
evading his taxes, for fraud upon the Government, for
counterfeiting its currency, for violating its voting laws
and on and on ad infinitum.
Of course a citizen has the right to abandon or renounce
his citizenship and Congress can enacf measures to regulate and affirm such abjuration. But whether Zitizenship
has been voluntarily relinquished is a question to be determined on the facts of each case after a judicial trial in full
conformity with the Bill of Rights. Although Congress
may provide rules of evidence for such trials, it cannot
declare that such equivocal acts as service in a foreign
army, participation in a foreign election or desertion from
our armed forces, establish a conclusive presumption of
intention to throw off American nationality. Cf. Tot v.
United States, 319 U. S. 463. Of course such conduct
ma,
y be highly persuasive evidence in the particular case
of a purpose to abandon citizenship.
To the extent that Mackenzie v. Hare, 239 U. S. 299,
and Savorgnan v. United States, 338 U. S. 491, applied
principles contrary to those'expressed in this opinion I
believe they are inconsistent with the Constitution and
cannot be regarded as binding authority.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, whom MR. JUsTIcE Bun-

TON joins, concurring in the result.
This case involves a native-born citizen of -Japanese
parentage who has been declared to have lost.his citizenship by virtue of § 401 (c) of the Nationality Act of 1940,

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRANKURTER,. J.,

concurring in result.

356 U. S.

54 Stat. 1137, 1169, for having served in the Japanese
armed forces while subject to the law of Japan making
failure to serve a crime. That is the case before the
Court. The defined issue raised by this case is the only
issue, in my judgment, that the Court should decide.
Petitioner asserts that his service in the Japanese forces
was performed under duress. His claim of duress is based
on the fact that he was inducted into the Japanese armed
forces pursuant to the compulsory conscription law of
that country,' and that rumors of harsh punishment of
draft evaders by the secret police and the ruthlessness
of the government in power made him afraid to take any
action to avoid service. The evidence to rebut this testimony, elicited on cross-examination, was that he had
failed to take certain actions to avoid service; the only
affirmative act urged in support of the voluntariness of
his entry into service is that he went to Japan when
he was of draft-eligible age' and remained there until
inducted.
It is common ground that conduct will result in expatriation only if voluntarily performed. See Mackenzie v.
Hare, 239 U: S. 299, 311-312; cf. Acheson v. Okimura,
342 U. S. 899; Acheson v. Murata, 342 U. S. 900.
Accordingly, where a perpon who has been declared expatriated contests that declaration on grounds of duress,
the evidence in support of this claim m-ist be sympathetically scrutinized. This is so both because of the extreme
gravity of being denationalized jnd because of-the subtle,
psychologic factors that bear on duress.
.1 According to a stipulation of the parties in the record, the Military
Service Law of Japan provided punishment of up to three years of
penal servitude for persons evading military service.
2There does not seem to be any explicit basis in the record for the
trial court's finding (Finding of Fact No. III) that petitioner made
the trip to Japan "knowing at that time that he was likely to be
called for military service in the Japanese Armed Forces."

NISHIKAWA v. DULLES.
129

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring in result.

The issue that is ultimately decisive in a litigation is
one thing the mode for determining it quite another.
The fact that conduct, in order to result in loss of citizenship, must be voluntary behavior does not inherently
define the appropriate manner of its proof. The Government properly has a very heavy burden in expatriation
cases: it must establish that the citizen committed an
"act of expatriation"-i. e., engaged in conduct of which
the consequence is loss of citizenship-by clear, convincing and unequivocal evidence. Gonzales v. Landon,
350 U. S. 920, adopting the standard of Schneiderman v.
United States, 320 U. S. 118, and Baumgartnerv. United
States, 322 U. S. 665. This is incumbent on the Government although the evidence in cases such as these may
well be difficult to obtain. Much more difficult would it
be for the Government to establish the citizen's state of
mind as it bears on his will, purpose and choice of actionin short, "voluntariness." According to the ordinarily
controlling principles of evidence, this would suggest that
the individual, who is peculiarly equipped to clarify an
ambiguity in the meaning of outward events, should have
the burden of proving what his state of mind was. See
Selma, Rome & Dalton R. Co. v. United States, 139 U. S.
560, 567-568. Moreover, any other evidence of his state
of mind, outside of his own mental disclosures, will often
be found only abroad, where the Goveriment miky have
no facilities for conducting the necessary investigation.
The Court should hesitate long before imposing on the
Government, by a generalized, uncritical formula, a bur--den so heavy that the will of Congress becomes incapable
of sensible, rational, fair enforcement.
Where an individual engages in conduct by command
of a penal statute of another country to whose laws he
is subject, the gravest doubt is cast on the applicability
of the normal assuniption-even in a prosecution for
murder (see Leland v. Oregon, 343 U. S. 790)-that what

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
HARLAN,

J., dissenti.

356 U. S.

a person does, he does of his owp free will. When a consequence as drastic as denationalization may be the effect of
such conduct, it is not inappropriate that the Governmen
should be charged with proving that the citizen's conduct
was a response, not to the command of -the statute, but
to his own direction. The ready provability .of the critical fact-existence of an applicable law, particularly a
criminal law, commanding the act in ,question-provides
protection against shifting this burden to the Government
on the- basis of a frivolous assertion of the defense of
duress. Accordingly, the Government should, under the
circumstances of this case, have the burden of proving.
by clear, convincing'and unequivocal evidence that the
citizen vbluntarily performed, an act causing expatriation.
Since the courts below were-not guided by this formulation, the judgment should not be allowed to stand. However, the Government should, not be denied a further
opportunity to bring forward the necessary proof if it is
able to do so. Whether, in otfier classes of cases in which
the defense of duress is asserted, the Government should .
have the burden of proving, its absence is a question
the Court need not-and, therefore, should not-reach.
For that reason, I concur in the result announced but
cannot join the opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, whom MR. JusTIcE CLARK joins,
dissenting.
The central question in this case is simply whether
Nishikawa's service in the Japanese Army can be said to
be "voluntary" when the record contains virtually nothing
more in the way of proof than that he weht to Japan
from this country in 1939 and was inducted into the army
pursuant to a conscription law of Japan without any protest on his part.
Beyond establishing that he was drafted without protest, Nishikawa's testimony should be disregarded, for the

NISHIKAWA v. DULLES.
129

HARLAN,

J., disenting.

District Court expressly stated that it disbelieved his
explanations as to why he had not sought the aid of
American authorities 'in Japan or otherwise attempted to
protest or prevent his induction, and the Court of Appeals
has affirmed. Particularly when credibility is in issue we.
should not set ourselves against the factual determinations
of the trial court, which had the great advantage of hearing and observing Nishikawa on the witness stand.
The Courts of Appeals have divided on the question
whether proof of conscription, in the absence of anything
more on either side, precludes a finding that service in
a foreign army was voluntary. The Second and Third
Circuits have held that it does. Augello v- Dulles, 220 F.
2d 344; Lehn"ann v. Acheson, 206 F. 2d 592; Perri v.
Dulles, 206 F. 2d 586. The District of Columbia Circuit
has ruled that "[dl uress cannot be inferred from the mere
fact of conscription." Acheson v. Maenza, 92 U. S. App.
D. C. 85, 90, 202 F. 2d 453, 458; Alata v. Dulles, 95 U. S.
App. D- C. 182, 221 F. 2d 52; but see Bruni v. Dulles, 98
U, S. App. D. C. 358, 235 F. 2d 855.'
Moved by the consideration that a contrary rule would
lead to the "drastic" consequence of denationalization,
the Court holds that (1) the fact that Nishikawa was
conscripted into the Japanese Army precluded the District Court from finding that his service was voluntary,
in the absence of the Government's showing something
more than that he failed to take any steps to prevent or
protest his induction; and (2) the Government has the
burden of proving voluntariness in all denationalization
cases once the issue of duress has been "injected" into the
'See also Hamamoto v. Acheson, 98 F. Supp. 904. Compare
Acheson v. Okimura, 342 U. S. 899; Achesony. Murata, 342 U. S..
900, and the dissenting opinion in Mandoli v. Acheson. 344 U. S. 133,
139. As- we read Gonzales v. Landon, 350 U. S. 920, cited in the
majority opinion, that case related simply to the standard, and not
to the burden, of proof in denationalization cases.

144

OCTOBER TERM," 1957.
HARLAw, J.,

dissenting.

356 U.S.

case.. I too am not insensitive to the high value of
ilmerican citizenship, but find myself compelled to disQeit because in 1ny opinion the majority's position can be
squared neither with congressional intent nor with proper
and well-established rules governing the burden of proof
on the issue of duress.
-I.

To pbrimit conscription without more to establish duress
unjustifiably limits, if it does not largely nullify, the
mandate of § 401 (c). By exempting.from the reach of
the statute all those serving in foreign armies as to whom
no more has been sliown than their conscription, the
Cburt is attributing to Congress the iIntention to perinit
many Americans who served, in such armies to do so with
impunity. There.is no 'solid basis for such a restrictive
interpretation. By the time the Nationality Act of 1940
was passed, conscription and not voluntary enlistment,
had become the usual method of raising armies'-throughout the world, and it can hardly be doubted-that Congress
was aware of this fact. In view of this background it
is farfetched to assume that Congress intended the result reached by the Court, a result plainly inconsistent
with the-even-handed administration of § 401 (c). Moreover, the very terms of the section, which-refer to both
"entering" and "serving in" foreign armed forces, are at
odds with such an intention.

-

-

II.
'

Although the Gourf recognizes the general rule that
consciously performed acts are presumed volunt-ry, ,see
3 Wigmore, Evidence (3d ed.), § 860; Fed. Rules Civ.
Proc., 8 (c), it in fact alters this rule in all denationalization cases by placing the burden of proving voluntariness
on the GPvernmnt, thus relieving citizen-claimants in

NISHIKAWA v. DULLES.
129

HMRLAN, J., dissenting.

such cases from the duty of proving that their presumably
,voluntary acts were actually.involuntary2
One of the prime reasons for imposing the burden of
proof on the party claiming involuntariness is that the
evidence normally lies in his possession. This reason is
strikingly applicable to cases of the kind before us, for
evidence that an individual involuntarily served in a
foreign army is peculiarly, within his grasp, and rarely
accespibre to the Government. Nishikawa's case am'ly
illustrates the proposition. In the eight months that
passed between his notice to report for a physical examination and his actual induction Nishikawa could
have taken a variety of steps designed to prevent his
conscription, any of which would have been persuasive
evidence of the involuntary character of his service. For
example, he could have sought .to return to the United
States, to renounce his Japanese nationality, to advise
Japanese officials that he was an American citizen, to
enlist the assistance of American Consular officials in
2The Court not only reaches a conclusion inconsistent with the
usual rules governing burden of p-oof, but does so in the fice of
§ 402 of the Nationality Act, which provides in part:
"A national of the United States who was born in the United
States . . . shall be presumed to have expatriated himself under
subsection (c) or (d) of section 401, when he shall remain for six
months or longer within any foreign state of which he or either of his
parents shall have been a national according to the laws of such
foreign state . . . and such presumption &hall exist until overcome
whether or not the individual has returnc to the United States."
54 Stat. 1137, 1169.
Nishikawa was in Japan for 10 months before he even received
notice to report for physical examination in the draft. He was
inducted over 18 months after his arrival in Japan. This Court held
in Kawakita v. United States, 343 U. S. 7M7, 730: "Section 402 does
not enlarge § 401 (c) or (d); it creates a rebuttable presumption of
expatriation; and when it is shown that the citizen did no act which
brought him under § 401 (c) or (d), the presumption is overcome."

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

356 U.S.

Japan, or to, employ the aid of friends or relatives in the
United States.' Nishikawa admits that he did none of
these things. But if he claimed that he had, is it not
apparent thatlhe and not the Government is the logical
party to bring forward the pertinent evidence? In such
circumstances it seems to me, the better course to'require Nishikawa to prove his allegation of duress rather
than to impose on the Government the well-nigh impossible task of producing evidence to refute such a claim.
For both of the reasons set forth above I think that
the finding of the District Court that Nishikawa served
in the Japanese Army without duress should not be
disturbed.
In considering § 401 (c), we ought not to lose sight of
the fact that it deals solely with dual natibnals, remitting
them to the citizenship of the country which they served
in time of war. Unlike the majority, I do not believe
that this consequence is incommensurate with petitioner's
conduct. It seems to me that there is a large measure of
-justice irf relegating Nishikawa solely to his Japanese citizenship, for it is with the armed forces of Japan that he
served for more than four years during the heart of the
late World War. Nishika:va's service included participation in military action against the United States in the
Ph ilippines. There is no suggestion that at any time
during this period he ever performed any act indicating
disloyalty io Japan or loyalty to the Uiiited States.
Tlle Cburt remands the case presumabtly to give the
Government th" cpportunity to show .that Nishikaw4.'s
service wth the Japanese Army. was voluntary. -Surely
.this is- but an empty gesture. The Government can
" It is of course 4fite irrwlevant that any ste4)s taken by Ni.-hikaiwa
to forestall his induction may have been in vain., Whether succe.-. ul
or not, they would certainly have reflected his unwillingness to serve
I
in the Army of Japan.

NISHIKAWA v. DULLES.
129

HARLAN,

147

J., dissenting.

hardly be expected to adduce proof as to occurrences
taking place in Japan more than 17 years ago which
are now shrouded in obscurity beyond serious hope of
detection.
Nishikawa's constitutional contention that Congress'
lacked power to.enact a 401 (c) is, inmy view, foreclosed
by Perez v. Brownell, ante, p.' 44, decided this day.
I would affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.

