OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
356 U. S.

Per Curiam.

RATNER v. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 819.

Decided May 5, 1958.

62 F. Supp. 518, affirmed.

David Axelrod and James L. Givan for appellant.
Solicitor General Rankin, Assistant Attorney General
Hansen, Charles H. Weston and Robert W. Ginnane for
the United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission, and Walter Harwood for the Hoover Motor Express

Co., Inc., appellees.
PER CURIAM.

The motions to affirm are granted and the judgment is
affirmed.

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

SHERMAN v. TJNITED STATES
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 87.

Argued January 16, 195S.-Decided May 19, 1958.

At petitioner's trial in a Federal District Court for selling narcotics
in violation of 21 U. S. C. ยง 174, he relied on the defense of entrapmerit. From the undisputed testimony of the Government's witDesses, it appeared that a government informer had met petitioner
at a doctor's office where both were being treated to cure narcotics
addiction, the informer asked petitioner to help him to obtain
narcotics for his own use, petitioner seemed reluctant to do so: the
informer persisted, and finally petitioner made several small purchases of narcotics and let the informer have half of each amoutrf
purchased at cost, plus expenses._ By prearrangement, other
government agents then obtained evidence of three similar sales
to the informer, for which petitioner was indicted. Ex'cept for a
record of two convictions nine and five years previously, there was
no evidence that petitioner himself was in the trade or that he
showed a "ready complaisance" to the informer's request. The
factual issue whether the informer bad persuaded the otherwise
unwilling petitiofier to make the sale or whether petitioner .was
already predisposed to do so and exhibited only the natural hesitancy of one acquainted with the narcotics trade was submitted to
the jury, which found petitioner guilty. Held: On. the record in
this ca~e, entrapment was established as a matter of law, and
petitioner's conviction is reversed. Pp. 370-378.
(a) Entrapment occurs only when the criminal conduct was
"the product of the creative activity" of law-enforcement officials.
P. 372.
(b) Th3 undisputed testimony of the Government's witaesses
established entrapment a9 a matter of law. P. 373.
(c) Although the informer was not being paid, the Government
cannot disown him or disclaim responsibiliiy for his actions,, since
he was an active government informer who was himself awaiting
trial on narcotics charges, for which he'was later given a suspended
sentence. Pp. 373-374.

