MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO.

481

Syllabus.
FEDERAL MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN

COMPANY, INC.,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT.

No. 73. Argued December 11, 1957 -Decided May 19, 1958.*
The Federal Maritime Board issued an order approving a rate
system proposed by a shipping conference of 17 common carriers
by water serving the inbound, trade from. Japan, Korea, and Okinawa to ports on the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts of the United States.
Under the proposed system;-a shipper who signed an exclusiveiatronage contract with the conference would pay less than the
regular-freight rates chargdd to all others. The Court of Appeals
set aside the Board's order, on the ground that this system of dual
rates was unlawful under § 14 of the Shipping Act of 1916. Held:
The judgment is affirmed. Pp. 482-500.
(a) In § 14 qongress flatly prohibits certain specific conTerence
practices having the purpose and effect of stifling the competition
of independent carriers. In addition to- these specific abuses, § 14
also forbids "resort to other -discr iinating or unfair methods,"
and this, in the context of § 14, must be construed as constituting
,a catchall clause
by which Congress meant to prohibit other
practices not specifically enumerated but similar in purpose and
effect to those which were enumerated. Pp. 491-493.
- (b) Since the Board found that the proposed rate system was
required to meet the competition of a certifiiainel6ndent-carrier
in -order to obtain for Confirence members a greater participation in the cargo moving'ifi this trad6, it follows that the system
was a, "resort to other discriminating or unfair methods" to stifle
outside competition in violation of § 14.' P. 493.
(c). Previous decisions in United States Navigation' Co. v.
CunardS. S. Co., 284 U. S.474, and Far East Conference v. United
States, 342 U. S. 570, cannot be read -as having passed on the
construction of § 14 Third. Pp. 496-499.
99 U. S. App. D. C. 312, 239 F. 2d 933, affirmed.
*Togethei with No. 74, Japan-Atlantic and Gulf Freight Conference et al. v. United States et al., also on certiorari to the same Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

Warner W. Gardner argued the causes for the Federal
Maritime Board, petitioner in No. 73 and re,.pondent in
No. 74. With him on the brief were E. Robert Seaver,
Robert E. Mitchell, Edward Aptaker and Edward
Schmeltzer.
Elkan Turk argued the cause for petitioners in No. 74.
With him on the brief were James M. Landis, Wallace M.
Cohen, Seymour J. Rubin, Carl A. Auerbach, Herman
Goldman, Benjamin Wiener and Elkan Turk, Jr.
Philip Elman. argued the causes for the United States
and the Secretary of Agriculture, respondents in both
cases. On the brief were Solicitor General Rankin,
Assistant Attorney General Hansen, DanielM. Friedman,
Robert L. Farrington, Neil Brooks and Donald A.
Campbell.
John J. O'Connor argued the causes for the Isbrandtsen
Co., Inc., respondent in both cases. With him on the
brief were John J. O'Connor, Jr. and Robert J. Crotty.
John R. Mahoney, Elmer C. Maddy, Alan B. Aldwell,
Walter Carroll, Allen E. Charles and David Oriin filed a
brief in both cases for the-Steamship Conferences et al.,
as amici curiae, urging reversal.
delivered the opinion of theCourt.
The Isbrandtsen Co., Inc., filed a petition in the United
States Court of Appeals for, the District of Columbia Circuit to review, under 5 U. S. C. § 1034, an order of the
Federal Maritime Board' approving a rate system proposed by the Japan-Atlantic and Gulf Freight ConferMR. JUSTICE BRENNAN

4 F. M. B. 706. The Federal Maritime Board and its predecessors are hereinafter referred to as "the Board." Its predecensors were
the United States Shipping Board (1916 to 1933); the United States
Shipping Board Bureau in the Department of Commerce (1933 to
1936); and the United States Maritime Commission (1936 to 1950).

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO.
481

483

Opinion of the Court.

ence (the Conference).2 Under the proposed system a
shipper would pay less than regular freight rates for the
same service if he signs an exclusive-patronage contract
with the Conference. Contract rates would be set at
levels 91/2 percent below noncontract rates. The Court
of Appeals' set aside the Board's order on the ground
that this system of dual rates was illegal per se under
§ 14 of the Shipping Act, 1916, 39 Stat. 733, as amended,
46 U. S., C. § 812 Third.'

We granted certiorari.

353

U. S. 908.
2 The Federal Maritime Board was named a respondent in Isbrandtsen's petition. The United States was also named as statutory
respondent pursuant to 5 U. S. C. § 1034 but, appearing by the
Department of Justice, joined Isbrandtsen in attacking the Board
order. The Secretary of Agriculture intervened and joined in the
Justice Department's brief. The Conference intervened by leave
of the court. The same parties are before this Court.
3 99 U. S. App. D. C. 312, 239 F. 2d 933.
4 Section 14 provides:
"No common carrier by water shall, directly or indirectly, in 'respect
to the transportation by water of passengeis or property between a
port of a State, Territory, District, or possession of the United States
and any other'such port or a port of a foreign country"First. Pay or allow, or enter into any combination, agreement,
or understanding, express or implied, to p~y or allow.a deferred rebate
to any shipper. The term 'deferred rebate'in this chapter means a
return of any portion of the freight money by a carrier to-any shipper
as a consideration for the giving of all or any portion of his shipments
to the same or any other carrier, or for any other purpose, the payment of which is deferred beyond the completion of the service for
which it is paid, and is made only if, during both the period for which
computed and the period of deferment, the shipper has complied
with the terms of the rebate agreement or arrangement.
"Second. Use a fighting ship either separately or in conjunction
with any other carrier, through agreement or otherwise. The term
'fighting ship' in this chapter means a vessel used in a particular trade
by a carrier or group of carriers for the purpose of excluding, preventing, or reducing competition by driving another carrier out of
said trade.
"Third. Retaliate against any shipper by refusing, or threatening

. OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
-

Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

The Conference is a voluntary association of 17 common carriers by water serving the inbound trade -from
Japan, Korea, and Okinawa to ports on the United States

-

Atlantic and Gulf Coasts. Five of the carriers are American lines, eight are Japanese, and four are of other
nationalities. The Conference presently operates under
a Board-approved Conference Agreement made in 1934.
?rior to World War II, the Conference had no direct'liner
competition and little.tramp competition.
After the war, Isbrandtsen entered- the trade as the
sole non-Conference line maintainirig a regular berth
servici in the Japan-Atlantic trade.- From 1947 to early
1949, Isbrandtsen. operated from Japan to Atlantic Ooast
ports via the Suez Canal. Since- 1949 Tsbrandtsen has
operated an approximately fortnightly service from Japan
to United States Atlantic Coast ports Via the Panama
Canal as part of its Eastbound, Round-the-World
Service.*
Although Conference membership is open to any common carrier regularly operating in the trade,.Isbrandtsen
has refused to join. -Isbrandtsen's practice, between 1947
to refuse, space accommodations when such are -available, or resort
to other discriminating or unfair methods, because.such shipper has'
patronized any other carrier or has filed a complaint charging unfair
treatment, or for any other reason."Fourth. Make any unfair or unjustly discriminatory contract
with any shipper based on the volume- of freight offered, or unfairly

treat "or unjustly discriminate against any shipper, in the matter
of (a)-cargo space accommodations or other facilities, due regard
being had for the proper loading of the v'ssel and the available tonnage; (b) the loading and landing of freight in proper condition;
or (c) the adjustment and settlement of claims.
"Any carrier who violates any provision. of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor -punishable by a fihe of not more than
$25,000 for each offense." .
Isbrandtsen's Vessels are not equipped with refrigerated space
or silkrooms, 4s are many of the Conference vessels, and do not compete for cargoes requiring these facilities,

MARI TIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN "CO...485
Ojtinon of the Court.

481

"•

-and March -12, 1953, was to maintain rates at approxi.mately 10 percent below the corresponding Conference
rates. The general understanding - of -shippers and
carriers in the trade was that Isbrandtsen underquoted
Conference rates by-10 percent. This practice of undercutting Conference rates during the years 1950, 1951, and
1952, captured for Isbrandtsen 30 percent of the total'
cargo in the trade although Isbrandtsen provided only'
'1-1 percent of the sailings. Since outbound tonnage from the United States exceeds
the inbdund tonnage, the 5apan-Atlantic and Gulf trade
is presently overtonnaged, .and both Isbrandtsen and
Conference vessels have, had substantial unused cargo
space after loading cargoes in Japan. Total sailings in
the trade rose from 109 in 1949 to more than 300 in 1953.
(Cf. note 6.) The re-entry of the Japanese lines in
the trade after World War II, four in 1951 and four in"
1952, greatly contributed to the excess of tonnage. For
the years 1951, 1952, and the first 6 months of 1953, the
Japanese lines carried approximately 15 percent, 49
percent, and 66 percent, respectively, of the trade's total
liner cargo. For. the years 1950, 1951,. 1952, and the
first 6 months of 1953, American flag lines, including
6The comparative sailin's and carryings are indicated in the
follbwing table:.'
Numer
f elliga
Cargocrried (revenue
tumber
ofsaftugsons)

-Calendar
year

Is'is.
brandt- Conf. Total brandt- Conf,
sen
sen

1949
8----103
1950 ------ 21
137
1951 ------ 21
174
1952
24
221
months.

12

153

Average carry- Percentagd of
ings per Itotalner
salIng, cargO

IsIsTotal- brandt- Conf. brandt- ConA
sen
sen

109 18,099
158 120,381
195 93,450
245 95,834

135,635 153,734
222,829 350,210
219,343 312,793
281,308 38,142

3,016
5,780
4,450
4,118

1,317
1,678
1,261
1,273

165

189,503

3,109

1,239-

37,308

226,811

-

12
34
30
26

88
68
70
74

16

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

Isbrandtsen but excluding two others, carried'53 percent,
46 percent, 34 percent, and 21 percent respectively.
When, in late 1952, Isbrandtsen announced-a plan to
increase sailings -from two to three or four sailings a
month, the Conference foresaw. a further increase in
Isbrandtsen's participation which, because of the nationalistic preference of Japanese shippers, would probably be at the expense of the non-Japanese Conference
lines. To meet this outside competition the Conference
first attempted, in November of 1952, a 10-percent reduction in rates, but Isbrandtsen answered with a reduction
of its rates 10 percent under the Conference rates.
On December 24, 1952, the Conference proposed the
dual-rate system and filed its plan with the Board as
required by. the Board's General Order 76, 46 CFR
§ 236.3, which permitted proposed rate changes to become
effective after 30 days unless postponed by the Board on
its own motion or on -the protest of interested persons.
Protests were filed by Isbrandtsen and the Department
of Justice. The Secretary of Agriculture intervened asan interested commercial shipper opposed to the proposal.
On January 21, 1953, the Board ordered a hearing on the
protestq but refused, pending the Board's determination, to suspend operations of the dual-rate system.
Isbrandtsen, therefore, filed, h petition in the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit for a stay of the Board's order insofar as it authorized the Conference to institute the dual-rate system.
The court announced on February 3, 1953, that, the
Board's order would be stayed and the stay was eniered
on March 23, 1953.1
7 On January 21, 1954, the Court bf Appeals handed down.its final
decision holding that § 15 of the Shipping Act required the Board to
hold a hearing on the proposed dual-rate system before approval.
93-U. S. App. D. C. 293, 211 F. 2d 51. '

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO. 487
481

Opinion of the Court.

The Conference response to the stay was to open rates
to allow each-line to fix its own rates. At a meeting-on
March 12, 1953, the Conference voted to open Conference rates on 10 of the major commodities moving in the
trade. The action was primarily directed at Isbrandtsen's competition; the Board found that "it was hoped
that the rate war would lead to Isbrandtsen's joining the
Conference or to the institution of the dual rate system
or other system." On succeeding dates in the spring of
that year, the Conference opened rates on most of the
major items in the trade. In the resulting rate war, the
level of rates dropped to about 80 percent and later to
about 30 percent to 40 percent of the pre-March 12 rates.
In some instances, r.ates fell below handling costs.
Isbrandtsen attempted to keep on a competitive basis in
the rate war but, when pegging of minimum rates in
May did not improve its position, in July it set its rates
at 50 percent of the pre-March 12 Conference rates.
Since that date, Isbrandtsen has carried little cargo in
the trade. Meanwhile the Board proceeded with the
hearing and issued its report on December 14, 1955, followed on December 21, 1955, and January 11, 1956, by
orders approving the proposed dual-rate system.8 The
question for our decision is whether the Court of Appeals
correctly set aside the Bbard's orders.
It has long been almost universal practice for American
and foreign steamship lines engaging in ocean commerce
to operate under conference arrangenients and agreements. At least Jby 1913 it was recognized that such
agreements might run counter to the policy of the antitrust laws; several cases were pending against foreign
and domestic water carriers for, alleged violations of the
8 The Board did modify the exclusive-patronage contracts to delete
from their coverage refrigerated cargoes for which Isbrandtsen did
not compete.

488 ..

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Cburt.

356 U. S.

Sherman Act. The House Committee on Merchant
Marine and Fisheries of the 62d Congress. of which committee Representative J. W. Alexander was Chairman,
undertook an exhaustive inquiry into the practiceg of
shipping conferences. The work of this Committee is
set forth in two volumes of hearings,9 a vclume of diplomatic and consular reports, and a fourth volume c6ntaining the Committee's report, known as the Alexander
Report."° Contemporaneously, a -British inquiry was
conducted by the Royal Commission on Shipping Rings.
The Royal Commission's report was available 'to the
House Committee and-was considered by it in formulating recommended legislation. See Hearings, at 369.
Both inquiries brought to light a number of predatory
practices by. shipping conferences designed to give the
conferences monopolies upon particular trades by fore- "
stalling outside competition and driving out all outsiders
attempting to compete. The crudest form of predatory
practice was the fighting ship. The conference would
select a suitable steamer from among its lines to sail on
the same days and between the same ports as the nonmember vessel, reducing the regular-rates low enough to
'capture the trade from the outsider. The expenses and
losses from the lower rates were shared by the members
-of the 6onferewce. The competitor by this means was
-caused to exhaust its resources and withdraw from
competition.
More sophisticated practices depended upon a tie-between the conference and the shipper. The most
Widely used tie, because the IImost effective, was the_§ystem of deferred rebates. Under this systeri-a -s tpher
-

9 Proceedings of the House Committee on the Morchant Marine and
Fisheries in the Investigation of Shipping Combinations under House
Resolution 587, Hearim6ngs2d Cong. (,Hereinater '"-earfing'}-_
' 0 H. .-Doc. No. 805. 63Cong., 2d Ses. (Hereinafter "eport.")

MARITIME BOARD ov..ISBRANDTSEN CO.
481

-

489

Opinion of .the Court.

signed a contract with-the conference exclusively -to
patronize its steaners, and if he aid so during the contract
term, and for a designated period thereafter, a rebate of
a certain percentage of his freight payments was made to
him at 'the end of the latter period. In this way, the
shipper was under constant obligation to give his patronage exclusively to the conference lines or suffer the loss
of the rebate, which often amounted to a consiferable
sum.
But the Alexander Committee also found evidence of
other predatory practices. Shippers who patronized outside competitors were deniect accommodations for future
shipments even at full rates of freight, or were discriminated against in the matter of lighterage and other
services. Outside competition was also met by dual-rate
contracts, by contracts with large shippers at lowe'r rates
for volume shipments, and by contracts with American
railroads giving conference vessels preference in the handling of cargoes at the docks, and delivering through
shipments of freight to conference vessels. 'Report. at
287-293.
The Alexander Committee recommended against a flat
prohibition of shipping combinations because it found
that the restoration of unrestricted competition among
,carriers would operate against the public interest by
depriving American shippers of desirable advantages of
conference arrangements honestly and fairly conducted.
The Committee mentioned advantages such as "greater
regularity and frequency of service, stability and uniformity of rates, economy in the cost of service, better
distribution of sailings, maintenance of Amhican and
European rates to foreign markets on a. parity, and equal
treatnent of shippers through the elimination of secket
.arrangements and underhanded methods of discAmina,tion." Id., at 416. The Committee believed that these
advantages could be p*reserved "only by permitting the

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

several lines in any given trade to cooperate through some
form of rate and pooling arrangement under Government
supervision and control," ibid., and further "that the disadvantages and abuses connected with steamship agreements and conferences as now conducted are inherent,
and can only be eliminated by effective government control; and it is such control that the Committee recommends as the means of preserving to American exporters
and importers the advantages enumerated, and of, preventing the abuses complained of." Id., at 418.
In passing the Shipping Act of 1916, 39 Stat. 728, 733,
as aniended, 46 U. S. C. § 812 Third, Congress -followed
the basic recommendations of the Alexander Committee':
The Act does not forbid shipping conferences in foreign
commerce but requires all conference agreements covering the subjects mentioned in § 16 to' be submitted for
Board approval.12 No power to fix rates is granted to
H. R. Rep. No. 659, 64th Cong., 1st Sess. 27; see S. Rep. No.
689, 64th.Cong., Ist Sess. 7. The Alexander Report was submitted in
1914 to'the 63d Congress and a bill to carry out its recommendations
was introduced but not passed. H. R. 17328, 63d Cong., 2d Sess.
In the following Congress substantially the same bill was reintroduced,
H. R. 15455, 64th Cong., 1st Sess., and became the Shipping Act of
1916.
1

12

Section 15 provides:

"Every common carrier by water, or other person subject to this
chapter, shall file immediately with the Fedd-al Maritime ,Board a
true copy, or, if oral, a true and complete memorandum, of every
agreement, with another such carrier or other 'person subject to this
chapter, oF modification or cancellation thereof, to which it may be a
party or conform in whole or in part, fixing or regulating transportation rates or farep; giving or receiving special rates, accommodations,
or other special' privileges 'or advantages; controlling,, regulating,
preventing, or destroying competition; pooling or apportioning earnings, losses, or traffic; allotting pbrts or restricting or otherwise regulating the number and character of sailings between ports; limiting
or regulating in any way the volume or character of freight or passenger traffic to be carried; or in any manner providing for an

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO. 491
481

Opinion of .the Court.

the Board. Subject to familiar limitations, the power
vested in the Board is to approve agreements iot found
to be unjujstly or unfairly discriminatory in violation
of §§ 16 and 17 or otherwise in violatioli of the Act.
Approved agreements are exempted from the antitrust
laws.
But it must. be emphasized that the freedom allowed
conference members to. agree upon terms of competition
subject to Board approval is limited to the freedom to
agree upon terms regulating competition among themselves. The Congress' in § 14 has flatly prohibited practices of conferences which have the purpose and effect of
stifling the competition of independent carriers. Thus
the deferred-rebate system (§ 14 First) and the fighting
ship (§ 14 Second) are specifically outlawed. Similarly,
§ 14'Third prohibits another practice, common in 1913:
to "[r] etaliate against any shipper by refusing .
space
accommodations when such are available...", that
prohibition, moreover, is enlarged to condemn retaliation
not only when taken "because such shipper has phtronized
any other carrier" but also when taken because the
shipper "has filed a complaint charging unfair treatment,
.or for any other reason." (Emphasis added.)
'

exclusive, preferential, or cooperative working arrangement. The
term 'agreement' in this section includes understandings, conferences,
and other arrangements.
"The Board may by order disapprove, cancel, or modify any
agreement, or any modification or cancellation thereof, whether or,
not previously approved by it,
that i finds to be unjustly discriminatory or unfair as .between carriers, shippers, ,exporters, importers,
or ports, or between -exporters from the United States and their
foreign competitors or to operate to the detriment of the commerce
of the United States, or to 'be in violation of this chapter, and shall
approve all. other agreements, modifications, or cancellations.
"Every agreement, modification, or cafncellation lawful under
this section.shall be excepted*from- the provisions of [the Antitrust
Acts] . . ." 39 Stat. 733, as amended, 46 UtO 8-'

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

But in addition to these specifically proscribed abuses,
Congress, as previously noted, was aware that other
devices-some known but not so widely used, and others
that might be contrived-imight be employed to achieve
the same results. Therefore, coordinate with these three
clauses aimed at specific practices, a fourth category,
couched in general language, was added: "resort to other
discriminating or-unfair methods ... ." In the context
of § 14 this clause must be construed as constituting a
catchall clause by which Congress meant to prohibit
other devices not'specifically enumerated but similar in
purpose and effect to those barred by § 14 First, Second,
and th "retaliate" 'clause of § 14 Third.
The reason the "resort to" clause was added to the
statute as -an independent prohibition of practices
designed to stifle outside competition is revealed in the
Alexander Report.. From information contained in the
Report of the British Royal Commission and a communication from a major New York carrier organization, the
Alexander Committee was aware. that the outlawing of
the deferred-rebate system would lead -conferences to
adolft a contract system to accomplish the same result.
The :British" Royal Commission believed that ties to
shippers were justified and that the abuses of the deferred-.
rebate system should be tolerated in the interest of
achieving a strong conference system. Hearings, 369381. However, the Alexander Committee, and the Congress in adopting the Committee's'proposals, reached a
different conclusion. Congress was unwilling to tolerate
methods involving ties between conferences and shippers
designed to stifle independent carrier competition. Thus
Congress struck- the balance by allowing "conference
arrangement passifig muster under §§ 15, 16, and 17
limiting competition among the conference members
.while flatly outlawing conference practices designed to

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO.
481

493

Opinion: of the Court.

destroy the competition of independent carriers 3 Ties
to shippers not designed to have the effect of stifling out-,
side competition are not made 'unlawful. Whether a
particular, tie is,
designed to have the effect of stiffing
outside competition is a question for the Board in the
first instance to determine.
Since the Board found that the dual-rate contract of
the Conference was "a.necessary competitive measure to
offset the effect of non-conference competition" required
"to meet the competition of Isbrandtsen in order to
obtain for its members a greater participation in the
cargo moving in this trade," * it follows that the contract
was a "resort to other discriminating or unfair methods"
to stifle outside competition in violation of § 14 Third.
The Board argues, however; that Congress, although
aware of the use of such contracts, did not specifically
outlaw them and therefore implicitly approved them.
But the contracts called to the attention of Congress bear
little resemblance to the contracts here in question.
Those joint contracts were described by the Alexander
Committee as follows:
"Such contracts are made for the account of all the
lines in the agreement, each carrying its proportion
of the contract freight as tendered from time to time.
The contracting lines agree to furnish bteamers at
13 Both the section which became § 14 Third and the section which.
became § 15, as originally proposed, used the language "discriminating or unfair." H. R. 17328, 63d Cong., 2d Sess. The bill which
became the Shipping Act, H. R. 15455, 64th Cong., 1st Sess., substituted "unjustly discriminatory or unfair" in § 15 but left untouched
"discriminating or unfair" in § 14 Third.
14 The Board estimated that Isbrandtsen would lose approximately
two-thirds of its 1952 volume. "...
[Ilt ^[is]
probable that Isbrandtsen will retain 10 percent or more.of the cargo moving in the
trade as against the 26 percent carried by it in 1952 . ...
4 F. M. B. 706, 737, 1956 Am. Mar. Cas. 414, 451.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

regular intervals and the shipper agrees to confine
all shipments to conference steamers, and to announce the quantity of cargo to be shipped in ample
time to allow for the proper supply of tonnage. The
rates on such contracts are less than those specified
in the regular tariff, but the lines generally pursue
a policy of giving the small shipper the same contract
rates as the large shippers, i. e. are willing at all
times to contract with all shippers on the same
terms." Report, at 290.
These contracts were very similar to ordinary requirements contracts. They obligated all members of the Conference to furnish steamers at regular ihtervals and at
rates effective for a reasonably long period, sometimes a
year. The shipper was thus assured of the stability of
service and rates which were of paramount importance to
him. Moreover, a breach of the contract subjected the
shipper to ordinary damages.
By -contrast, the dual-rate contracts here require the
* carriers to clarry the shipper's cargo only "so far as their
regular services are available"; rates are "subject to reasonable ihcrease" within tyro calendar months plus the
unexpired portion of the month after notice of increase is
given; "[0] ach Member of the Confekence is responsible
* for its own part only in this Agreement"; the agreement
is terminable by either party on three months' notice;
and fpr apIbreach, "the Shipper shall pay as liquidated
damages to tie Carriers fifty percentum (50%) of the
amount of freight which the Shipper would have paid had
such zshipmeat been made in a vessel of the Carriers at
the Contract rate currently in effect." Until payment of
the liquidate , damages the shipper is denied the reduced
rate, and if he violates the agreement more than once in
12 months, he suffers cancellation of the agreement and
the denial of another until all liquidated damages have

MARITIME BOARD v..ISBRANDTSEN CO.
.481

495

Opinion of the Court.

been paid in full. Thus under this agreement not only
is there no guarantee of services and rates for a reasonably long period, but the liquidated-damages provision
bears a strong resemblance to the feature which Congress
particularly objected to in the outlawed deferred-rebate
system. Certainly the coercive force of having to pay
so large a sum of liquidated damages ties the shipper to
the Conference almost -as firmly as the prospect of losing
the rebate. It would-be anomalous for Congress to strike
down deferred rebates and at the same time fail to strike
down dual-rate contracts having the same objectionable
purpose and effect. Events h&ve proved the accuracy of
the prediction that the, outlawing of the deferred-rebate
system would lead conferences to adopt a contract system, as here, specially designed to accomplish, the same
result.
It is urged that our construction "produces a flat and
unqualified prohibition of any discrimination by a carrier
for any reason" and converts the rest of the statute into
surplusage. But that argument overlooks the revealed
congressional purpose in § 14 Third. That purpose, as
we have said, was to outlaw practices in addition to those
specifically prohibited elsewhere in the section when such
practicesare used to stifle the competition of independent
carriers. The characterizations 'unjustly discriminatory"
and "unjustly prejudicial" found in other sections (§§ 15,
16 and 17) imply a congressional intent to allow some
latitude in practices dealt with by those sections, but the
practices outlawed by the "resort to" clause of § 14 Third.
take their gloss from the abuses specifically proscribed by
the section; that is, they are confined to practices designed
to stifle outside competition. 5
13 The Court of Appeals made a partial application of the rule of
ejusdem generi& and related the "resort to" clause to retaliation,
holding the dual-rate contract or suit was retaliatory and within
the ban of the section. The Board urges that the Court of Appeals

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

-

356 U. S.

Petitioners argue that our construction of § 14 Third
is foreclosed by this Court's decisions in UnitediStates
Navigation Co. v. CunardS. S. Co., 284 U. S.-474, and Far
East Conference v. United States, 342 U. S. -570. - A reading of those opinions .immediately refutes' any suggestion
•dither that this issue was expressly decided in those cases
or that our holding here is not fully consistent with the
disposition of those cases. In Cunard the petitioner had.
filed a complaint in- the District Court alleging that
respondents had conspired to maintain "a general tariff
*rate and a lower contract rate, the latter to be made
available only to shippers who agree to confine their
shipmeits to the lines of respondents." 284 U. S, at 479.
The differentials were alleged to be unrelated to volume
or regularity of.shipments, but to be wholly arbitrary and
unreasonable and designed "for the purpose of coercingshippers to deal exclusively with respondents and refrain
from shipping by the vessels of petitioner, and thus'
exclude it entirely from the carrying trade between the
United States and Great Britain." Id., at 480. An
injunction -was sought under the Sherman and Clayton
Acts. The C6urt held that the questions raised by this
complaint were within the primary jurisdiction of the
Shipping Board and therefore the courts could not eflter'tain the suit until the Board had considered the matter.
* In Far East Conference the Court sinilarly'held that the
Board's primary jurisdiction precluded the United States
did not carry the rule of ejusdem generis far enough, that by carrying
the rule "a hand's breadth farther" and also relating-and limitingthe "resort to" clause to the refusal of space accommodations and
similar services to shippers, the dual-rate contract falls without the
prohibition because the contract is concerned only with charges for
services and not with denial of services. We do not believe that these
constructions can be reconciled with the language of the statute or
plan.
the scope of the congressional

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO. 497
481

Opinion of the Court.

from bringing antitrust proceedings against a shipping
conference maintaining dual rates.
The Board and the Conference axgue that, if the Court
in these earlier cases had thought that § 14 Third iii any
way makes dual rates per se ijlegal and thus not within
the power of The Board to authorize, it would not have
found it necessary to require that the Board first pass
upon the claims. But in the Cunardcase the Court said:.
"Whether a given agreement among such carriers
should be held to contravene the-'act may depend
upon a consideration of economic relations, of facts
peculiar to the business or its history, of competitive
conditions in respect of the shipping of foreign'coun-.
tries, and of other. relevant circumstances, generally
unfamiliar to a judicial tribunal, but well understood'
by an administrative body especially trained and experienced in the intricate and technical facts and
usages of the shipping trade;, and .with which that
body, consequentlr, is better able to. deal." 284
U. S., at 485.
Similarly, in the Far East Conference case:
"The Court [in Cunard] thus applied a principle,
now firmly established, that in cases raising issues
of fact not within the conventional experience- of.
judges or cases requiring 'the exercise of administrative discretion, agencies created by Congress for regulating the subject matter should not be passed over.
This is so even though the facts after they have been
appraised-by specialized competence serve as a premise for legal consequences to be judicially defined.
Uniformity and consistency in the regulation of busines§ entrusted to a particular agency are seoiired, and
the limited functions of review by the judiciary are
more rationally exercised, by .preliminary resort for-

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

ascertaining and interpreting the circumstances underlying legal issues to agencies that are better
equipped than courts by specialization, ]5y insight
gained through_ experience, and by more flexible
procedure." 342 U.. S., at 574-575. (Enphasis
added.)
It is, therefore, very clear that these cases, while holdihg
that the Board had primary jurisdiction to hear the case
in the first instance, .did not signify that the statute left
the Board free to approve or disapprove the agreements
.under attack.. Rather, those cases recognized that in certain kinds of' litigation practical considerations dictate a
division of functions between court and agency under
which the latter makes a preliminary, comprehensive
iffvestigation-of all-theJfacts, analyzes them, and applies
to them -the statutory scheme 's it is construed. Compare Denver Union Stock Y'ad Co. v. Producers Livestock Marketing Assn., ante, p. 282. It is recognized
that the courts, .while- retaining .the final authority to
expound the statute, should avail themselyes of the aid
implicit in the agency's superiority in gathering the releyant facts and in marshaling them into a meaningful
pattern. Cases are not decided, nor the 'law appropriately understood, apart from an informed and particularized insight into the factual circumstances of the
controversy under litigation.
Thus the Court's action in Cunard and Far East Coiference is to be "taken as a deferral of what might come
to be tbe ultimate question-the construction of §14
Third-rather than an implicit holding that the Board
could properly approve the practices there involved:
The holding that the Board had primary jurisdiction, in
short, vas a device to prepare the way. if the litigation
should take' its ultimate course, for a more informed and
iecise determinatio.i by the Court of the scope and

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO.
481

499

Opinion of the Court.

meaning of the statute as applied to those particular dircumstances. To have held otherwise would, necessarily,
involve the Court in comparatively abstract exposition.
This consideration, moreover, is* particularly compelling in light of our present holding. Since, as we hold,
§ 14 Third strikes down dual-rate systems only where they
are employed as predatory devices, then precise findings
by the Board as to a particular system's intent and effect
would become essential to a judicial. determination of the
system's validity under the statute. 'In neither Cunard
nor FarEast Conference-did the Court have the assistance
of such findings on which to base a determination of
validity. We conclude, therefore, that the present holding,
is not foreclosed by these two cases."
Finally, petitioners argue that this Court should not
construe the Shipping Act in such a way'as to ?overturn the Board's consistent interpretation.. "[T]he
rulings, interpretations -and opinions of the [particular
'agency] . . . , while'not controlling upori the courts by
reason of their authority, do constitute a body of experience and informed judgment to which courts and litigants
may properly resort for guidance. The weight of such a
judgment in a particular case will depend upon the
thoroughness evident in its consideration, the validity of
.its reasoning, its consistency with earlier and later pronouncements, and all those factors which give it power
"8 Certainly it must be assumed that the Court would'refrain from
settling sub silentio an issue of such obvious importance and difficulty
plainly requiring a clearly expressed disposition.
Petitioners' reliance' on Swayne & Hoyt, Ltd.. v. UInited States,
300 U. S. 297, is similaTly paisplaced. In that case the Court upheld
the administrative determination that a dual-rate system gave an
"undue or unreasonable preference or advantage" under § 16 of the
Shipping Act. Because the Court sustained-the finding as supported
by substantial evidence it did not need to reach the more contentious
problem of whetfier that particular contract was illegal under § 14

Third.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

to persuade, if lacking power to coitrol." Skidmore v.
Swift & Co.,323 U. S. 134, 140. But we are here confronted with a statute whose administration has been
shifted several times from one agency to another, and it
is by no means clear that the Board and its predecessors
have taken uniform and' consistent positions in regard to
the validity of dual-rate systems under § 14 Third. 7 See
Isbrandtsen 'Co. v. United States, 96 F. Supp. 883,
889-891. In view of the fact that in the present case
the dual-rate system was instituted for the purpose of
'curtailing Isbrandtsen's competition, thus becoming a
device made illegal by Congress in- § 14 Third, we need
not give controlling weight to the various treatments of
dual rates by the Board under different circumstances.
Affirmed.
FRANKFURTER, whom MR: JUSTICE BURjoins, dissenting.
The Court today holds that any dual system of international steamship rates tied to exclusive patronage contracts that is designed to meet outside competitionhowsoever justified it may be as a reasonable means of
counteracting cutthroat competition-violates § 14, of
the Shipping Act of 1916 1 and cannot be approved by the
Federal Maritime Board pursuant to § 15 of that Act.
The Court thus outlaws a practice thaf has prevailed
among international steamship conferences for half a
century,' that is presently employed by at least half of

MR. JUSTICE

TOM

17 Compare, e. g., Edenz Mining Co. v. Bluefields Fruit & S. S. Co..
1 U. S. S. B. 41, and Conztract Routting Restrictions. 2 U. S. M. C.
220, 226-227, with W. T. Rawceigh Co. v. Stoomvart. 1 U. S. S. B.
285, 290.
139 Stat. 728, 733, as amended, 46 U. S. C. § 812.
2 See, e. g., agreements set forth at pp. 262-263 of Hearings before
-tle House Committee on the Merchant Marine and Fisheries in the
Investigation of Shipping Combinations, 62d Cong.

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO. 501
481

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

the hundred-odd conferences subject to Board jurisdiction,3 and that has been found by the Board in this case
to decrease the probability of ruinous rate wars in the
shipping industry Iri doing so, the Court does more
than set aside .a weighty decision of the Federal Maritirme Board. It could do so only by, rendering meaningless two prior decisions in which this Court respected the
power given by Congress to the Board, within the usual
limits of administrative discretion, to approve or disapprove such agreements.
The agreement involved in this case is typical of the
contracts used by the loose associations of steamship lines
known as "conferences" to effectuate their dual-rate
systems. See Marx, International Shipping Cartels, 207210. The contracting shipper agrees to forward all of
his shipments moving in the "trade" or route of the
conference by bottoms of 'conference members (§ 1). In
return, the conference members, "so far as their regular
services are available," agree to carry the shipper's goods
at rates below those charged to noncontracting shippers;
rates are subject to reasonable increase upon specified
notice (§ 2). The conference mempers agree to maintain
service adequate to the reasonable requirements of the
trade, and if they fail to provide the, shipper (who may
ordinarily select which of the conference members'
vessels will carry his goods) with needed space, he may
obtain space from nonconference carriers (§ 4). If the
shipper mpkes any shipments in violation of the agree3 Respondent -Isbrandtsen, in its petition to the Court of Appeals
to review the order'of the Federal Maritime Board, stated (at par.
10b) that "[o]f the about one hundred seventeen steamship freight
conferences organized pursuant to Section 15 of the Shipping Act,
and subject to the jurisdiction of the Board, about sixty-two conferences presently employ that system ....
"
See also Marx,
International Shipping Cartels, 207.
44 F. M. B. 706, 737, 739-740, 1956 Am. Mar. Cas. 414, 451, 454.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRANKFURTER,

J., disenting.

356 U.S.

ment, he must pay as liquidated damages 50 percent of
the amount of freight he would have paid if he had made
the shipment under the contract, and he is not entitled
to contract rates until he pays these damages (§ 5). If
the shipper violates the agreement more than, once in a
twelve-month period, the agreement. is canceled, and no
new agreement will be entered into until -all damages are
paid (ibid.). Either party may cancel the agreement on
three months' notice (§ 9), and any dispute arising out
of the agreement is to be submitted to arbitration (§ 10).
Such d fferences as exist among the dual-rate systems
that have for long been in wide use in international ocean
transportation are irrelevant if each such system is-to be
judged by the new test laid down by the Court: is it
aimed at meeting outside competition? Of course these
exclusive patronage contracts and the dual-rate systems
of which they are an integral part are designed to meet
nonconference competition. And there should be no
doubt that today's decision outlaws such systems. This
result cannot be clouded by the Court's reliance upon
"findings" of the Board that it
"consider [s] the inauguration of a dual-rate system
to be a necessary competitive measure to offset the
effect of non-conference competition in this trade."
4 F. M. B. 706, 736, 1956 Am. Mar. Cas. 414, 450.
and that
"a reduction in the amount of conference sailings or
other solution to the overtonnaging problem would
not mitigate the conference's need to meet the competition of Isbrandtsen in order to obtain for its members a greater participation in the cargo moving in
the trade." 4 F. M. B., at 737, 1956 Am. Mar. Cas.,
at 451.
These statements in the Board's opinion are nothing more
than a recognition of the dual-rate systeftn as a device for

MA ITIMEBOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO. 503
481

FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

meeting outside competition; they provide a basis neither'
for distinguishing the situation before us from any other
familiar use of a dual-rate system nor for concluding that
the conference members in this case instituted the system.
in order to "stifle" outside competition.
While limits have been imposed upon enterprise in
meeting competition, which is itself the governing principle of our economic system, these limits, embodied*in
the antitrust laws, were found to be inapplicable to,
because destructive of our national interest in, the international ocean transportation industry. The United
States obviously could not completely regulate the foreign
carriers with whom American carriers compete (not to
mention the carriers that serve foreign shippers with
whom American shippers compete). In view of the prevailing characteristics of the industry, it early became
appare:nt that it would, on the whole, be in the national
interest to tolerate some practices of steamship lines that
in other industries would be deemed inadmissible. For
the alternative, so it was concluded, would be to put it
within the power of unregulated foreign carriers seriously
to injure American firms--both carriers and shippers-if
not, indeed, to put them out of business. And so, in the
development of a scheme for regulating this international
industry, self-protective measures by way of collective
action were not left to the condemnation of the Sherman
and Clayton Acts. In order to appreciate the Shipping
Act of 1916 as an attempt to balance the need for some
regulation with the economic and political objections to
sweeping the shipping industry under the antitrust
concept, the circumstances that begot the Act must be
recalled.
The second half of the Nineteenth Century saw a
tremendous rise in the development of ocean transportation by steamship. Unfortunately, the supply of available cargo space increased during this period much more

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

rapidly -than the demand for it. The inevitable result
was cutthroat competition among steamship, owners.
This in turn was followed by mergers of ownership and by
concerted efforts among individual owners to limit competition. The practices by which this end was pursued
led to abuses and demands for their correction, to ivhich
a number of governments at the turn of the century
began to direct their attention. A series of investigations
of rates and practices in various -parts of the British
Empire was followed by the appointment in 1906 of the
Royal Conimission on Shipping Rings, which.rendered its
report in, 1909. See, generally, Marx, supra, at 45-50;
see also Johnson and Huebner, Principles of Ocean Transportation, 263-302. In the United States, the. Department of Justice in 1911'brought two proceedings against
three ,steamship conferences to enjoin competitive practices in alleged violation of the Sherman Act, United
States v. Prince Line, Ltd., 220 F. 230; United States v.
Hamburg-AmericanS. S. Line, 216 F. 971'
The terms of the resolutions that gave rise to thehistoric investigation of shipping combinations by the
House Committee on the Merchant Marine and Fisheries in 1912-1913, H. Res. -425 and H. Res. 587, 62d
Cong., 2d Sess., 48 Cong. Rec. 2835-2836, 9159-9160,
manifest the concern of Congress over thb steamship
conferences and their practices. The investigation was
thot6ugh and detailed. The Committee, under the-chairmanship of Representative Joshua W.,' Alexander of
Missouri, elicited great quantities of relevant data from
shippers, carriers, trade organizations and'"the Depart-ments-of State and Justice, including copies Qfmany kinds
5 On appeal, the very limited decrees obtained by the Government
against some members of two of the conferences were reversed, 239
U. S. 466, 242 U. S. 537, and the suits diiected to be dismfsged 6n
the score of mootness because of World.War I.

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO.
481

FRANKFURTER,

505

J., dissenting.

of agreements among carriers and between carriers and
shippers, and it held extensive hearings in January-March,
1913. Fully considered were exclusive patronage agreements between shippers and conferences providing for a
dual rate, see, e. g., Hearings before the House Committee
on the Merchant Marine and Fisheries in the Investigation of Shipping Combinations, 62d Cong., 248, 254, 262263; see also id., at 246, 263.
In -101-4 the Committee submitted its comprehensive
report. In summarizing the competitive methods used
.by steamship conferences in the American foreign trade,
the report discussed, under the heading "Meeting the
competition of lines outside of the conference," deferred
rebate systems, the use of fighting ships, agreements with
American railroads, and such types of contracts with
shippers as individual requirements contracts, contracts
giving preferential rates to large shippers, and the
following:
"(a) Joint contracts made by the conference as a
whole.-Such contracts are made for the account of
all-the lines in the agreement, each carrying its proportion of the contract freight as tendered from time
to time. The contracting lines agree to furnish
steamers at regular intervals and the shipper agrees
to confine all shipments to conference steamers, and
to announce the quantity of'cargo to be shipped in
ample time to allow for the proper supply of tonnage.
The rates on such contracts are less than those specifled in the regular tariff, but the lines generally pursue a policy of giving the small shipper the sailie con- tract rates as the large shippers, i. e. are willing at
all times to contract with all shippers on the same
terms." Report on Steamship Agreements and
Affiliations in the American Foreign and Domestic
Trade, H. R. Doe. No. 805, 63d Cong., 2d Sess. 290.
4WM 70-8e--

OCTOBER TERM, 1957..
FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

356 U.S.

There can be no doubt that the Committee was amply
alive to the primary purpose of' the dual-rate system.
But it did not, insubsequently discussing (id., at 304-307)
the "Disadvantages of Shipping C~nferences and Agreements, as Now Conducted," make any reference to the
system as such, although it dealt extensively and disapprovingly, on the basis of evidence put before it, with such
practices as deferred rebates, fighting ships, and retaliation against shippers for airing grievances. Nor were.
there any strictures against dual-rate systems in the survey of recommendations of witnesses at the hearings for
corrective legislation (id., at 307-314), although it was
there noted that recommendations were made in favor
of prohibiiions against deferred rebates and retaliation
by refusal of acconmiodations to a shipper because "he
may have shipped by an independent line, or may have
filed 'a complaint charging unfair treatment, or for other
unjust reasons." Id., at 313.
In making its own recommendations (id., at 415-421),
the Committeo recognized that steamship liaes almost
universally 'form conferences and enter into agreements
for the purpose (among others) of "meeting the competition of non-conference lines." Id., at 415. The
,Committee recognized that it had to choose between prohibition of these conferences or subjection of them to
government supervision.
"It is the view of the Committee that open competition can not be assured for any length of time by
ordering existing agreements terminated. The entire
history. of steamship agreements shows that in ocean
commerce there is no happy medium between war
and peace when several lines engage in the same
trade. Most of the numerous agreements and conference arrangements discussed in the foregoing report were the outcome of rate wars, and represent
a trucD between the contending lines." Id., at 416.

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO.
481

FRANKFURTER,

507

J., dissenting.

To prohibit existing arrangements, said the Committee,
would be to invite rate wars leading to monopoly or to the
exposure of American shippers and lines to disastrous
competition with foreign shippers and lines. Among
the complaints relating to existing conditions was "the
unfairness of certain methods-such as fighting ships,
deferred rebates, and threats to refuse shipping accommodations:-:used'by some conference lines to meet the
competition of nonconference lines." Id., at 417. The
Qommittee concluded that the system of conferences and
'agreements was not to be uprooted. Its disadvantages
and abuses niist be curbed by effective government
control.
Among the specific recommendations of the Committee were that carriers be required to file for approval with
the regulatory agency (the Committee recommended use
6f the Interstate Commerce'Commission) any agreements
among themselves or with shippers, with the agency being
empowered to cancel agreements it found to be "discriminating or unfair in character, or detrimental to the
commercial interests of the United States" (id., 'at 420) ;
that the agency be empowered to investigate and institute proceedings concerning rates that are "unreasonably
high, or discriminating in character as between shippers"
(ibid.), and
". .. That the use of 'fighting ships' and deferred
rebates be prohibited in both the export and import
trade of the United States. 'Moreover, all carriers
should be prohibited from retaliating against any
shipper by refusing space accommodations when such
are available, or by resorting to other unfair methods
of discrimination, because such shipper has patronized
-an independent line, or'has filed a complaint charging unfair treatment, or for any other reason." Id.,
at 421.

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

The cautious generality of the latter portion of this last
recommendation (and, surely, of the legislative provision
based on it) doubtless reflects a feeling on the part of
the Committee that many shippers refrained from describing the various forms of and reasons for retaliation -against them by carriers, for fear that they would
subsequently- be retaliated against. for making the
disclosures. See, e. g., id., at 5.
The report of the. Committee was filed in February
1914, and four months later Representative Alexander
introduced a bill, H. R. 17328, 63d Cong., 2d Sess., incorporating its recommendations. The bill provided, among
other things, that carriers be required to file for approval
with the Interstate Commerce Commission any of a wide
variety of agreements, tlat the Commission be empowered to cancel or modify agreements that it found "discriminating or unfair as between carriers, shippers,
exporters, importers, or ports, or between exporters from
the United States and their foreign competitors, or that
it may find to"operate to the detriment of the commerce
of the United States, or that may be in violation of this
Act," and that agreements when approved should be
exempt from the antitrust laws (§ 3). -Where the
Commission was of the opinion that rates, charges, classifications, regulations or practices were "unjust or unreasonable," it was empowered to determine and enforce
what would be just and reasonable under the circumstances (§ 7). And the bill (§ 2) provided that it should
be a misdemeanor (punishable by fine of up to $25,000)
for any carrier to allow deferred rebates, use a fighting
ship, or:
"Third. Retaliate against any shipper by refusing,
or threatening to refuse, space accommodations when
such are available, or resort to other discriminating or

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO. 509
481

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

unfair methods, because such shipper has patronized
any other carrier or has filed a complaint charging
unfair treatment or -for any other reason."
As no action was taken on H. R. 17328 in 1914, it was
reintroduced by Mr. Alexander in the 64th Congress late
in 1915 as H. ,R. 450. Shortly thereafter he introduced
H. R. 10500, a bill "To establish a United States Shipping
Board for the purpose of encouraging, developing, and
creating a naval auxiliary and naval reserve and a merchant marine to meet the requirenents of the commerce
of the United States with its territories and possessions,
and with foreign countries, and for other purposes."
That bill authorized the Board to purchase or charter
commercial vessels to be leased to private concerns in
peacetime and used as a naval auxiliary in wartime; the
bill also (§§ 9, 10) provided for very general regulation
by the Board of the ocean transportation industry.
Approximately two months later, in April 1916, Mr.
Alexander introduced H. R. 14337, which adapted his
earlier regaulatory bill (H. R. 450) to the administrative
framework of the Shipping Board bill .(H. -R. 10500).
The bill was considered in committee with a view to
substituting its provisions for the general regulatory
language of §§ 9 and 10 of the Shipping Board bill. See
Hearings before the House Committee on the Merchant
Marine and Fisheries on H. R. 14337, 64th Cong., 1st
Sess. 5. In these hearings, there was no -discussion of
the "retaliation" provision of the bill; attention was con-centrated on its more controversial aspects, such as the
power of the Board to regulate rates.
At the close of these hearings, in early May 1916, a
new Shipping Board bill, H. R. 15455, in which the substitution of the more detailed regulatory provisions had
been made, was introduced by Mr. Alexander. The bill
added a "Fourth" to the prohibitions against deferred

.OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.'

356 U. S.

rebates, fighting ships and retaliation: unfair or unjustly
discriminatory contracts with or treatment of shippers
-under specified- circumstances; the standard ("discrim-,
inating and unfair") in the provision empowering the
Board to cancel or modify agreements became "unjustly
discriminatory and unfair." The bill was promptly
reported out of the Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee with. a report that set forth in extenso.the recommendations in the 1914 report of the investigation of the
shipping. industry. H.-R. Rep. No. 659, 64th Cong., 1st
Sess. 27-31. The debate in the House cehtered on the
ship purchase and lease provisions of the bill, and the
bill passed the House with no detailed 'consideration of
the regulatory provisions. In the Senate, the hearings
before the Committee on Commerce were Also concerned
primarily with the ship purchase and lease provisions, as
were the floor debates. Once again, the Committee
report set forth the recommendations arising out of the
1914 investigation. S. Rep. No. 689f 64th Cong., 1st
Sess. 7-11. With no relevant'amendment to the regulatory portions of the bill, H. R. 15455 passed the Senate
and became law in September of 1916. 39 Stat. 728.
As enacted, then, the statute provided for the .following scheme of regulation. Carriers subject -to the Act
must file with the Board copies of agreements establishing (intei alia) preferential or cooperative arrangements.
Such of these as the Board finds "to be unjustly discriminatory or unfair . . .or to operate to the detriment of

the commerce of the United States, or to be in violation
of this Act," it may disapprove, cancel or modify; all
others it-must approve, and those approved are exempt
frqm the antitrust laws (§ 15). As to any "rate, fare,
chirge, classification, tariff, regulation, or practice" of
carriers that the Board finds to be unjust or unreasonable,
it may take corrective measures (§ 18). As an exception
to, or qualification upon, this scheme, certain practices

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO. 511
481

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

were specifically outlawed and may not, therefore,- be
approved by the Board: to allow deferred rebates, use
fighting ships,
" Retaliate against any slhipper by refusing, or
threatening to refuse, space accommodations when
such are available, or resort to other discriminating or
unfair methods, because such shipper has patonized
any other carrier or has filed a complaint charging
unfair treatment, or for any otler reason, . . . ."
and treat, or contract with shippers in certain unfair or
unjustly discriminatory ways; violation of this provision
is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to $25,000
(§14). 6
The form that this regulation takeg, considered in light
of its legislative background, makes clear the congressional purpose. It was found that abuses and discriminations were inherent inthe international shipping trade
when it was conducted on the basis of cooperation among
competitors. It was further found that the alternative
to cooperation .was cutthroat competition leading to.
monopoly and, more particularly, working to the serious
detriment of American carriers and shippers and to the
advantage of their foreign competitors. The conclusion
was that the system of cooperation must be domesticated
6It is worth noting that in §§ i4 Fourth and 15 the statute speakb
in terms of "unjust" discrimination, a standard to whill it'was quite
clearly the legislative purpose for the board to give substance and
meaning. Congress had no intention of condemning all of the practices described by the very general language of the two provisions;
it relied on the Board to prevent only those that are unwarranted
by the competitive situation in which they are found. But in § 14
.Third no such qualification was adopted, for the kind of "discriminating and unfair methods" toward which Congress was directing
its attention had been clearly identified (i. e., by retaliation against
shippers), and they were to be flatly prohibited iriespective of the
circumstances in which they might be practiced.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

and exposed to, and policed by, a continuing process of
regulation. Only the flagrant abuses were flatly prohibited. The pervading purpose of the Shipping Act is
to be found in a statement made in the House debate by
Representative Burke, a majority member of the Alexander Committee during both the investigation and the
consideration of the various bills:
"Your committee at the conclusion of such hearings
and after consideration and due deliberation made
its report to Congress upon the subject with many
valuable recommendations.
Amohg the recommendations made in such report to Congress were
that laws should be passed prohibiting the grossest
and most vicious of such unfair practices ....
"It was found by your committee that many of
the unfair practices had become so firmly established
and contained in many instances elements of usefulness that, with the exception of some of the more
prominent ill practices, it was considered that a system of regulation and control of water transportation
would'be for the best interest of both the public and
those interested in water transportation." 53 Cong.
Rec. 8095.
It is nportant to keep in mind the relation of this
scheme of regulation to the antitrust laws. Prior to the
enactment of the Shipping Act, the ocean transportation
industry was, ofcourse, subject to the antitrust laws, and,
indeed, as has been noted, proceedings under the Sherman
Act had been, brought against several conferences by the
Government. Congress might have provided that, in
addition to being subjected to the general surveillance
involved in a comprehensive pattern of regulation, the
steamship owners .mustcontinue to conform to the affirmaive policy in favor of a high level of competition that

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO. 513
481

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

underlies the antitrust laws. Such was the condition in
which legislation had placed the railroads. They were
subject to both Interstate Commerce.Commission regulation and the outlawry of the Sherman Act. United
States v. Trans-Missouri Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290;
United States v. Joint Traffic Assn., 171 U. S.505. Not
until 1920 were agreements among rail carriers excepted
from the antitrust laws. § 407, Transportation Act of
1920, 41 Stat. 456, 480, amending § 5 of the Interstate
CommerCe Act, 24 Stat. 379, 380. With respect to ocean
transportation, however, Congress from the beginning
chose to exempt agreements among carriers and between
carriers and shippers from the antitrust laws. They thus
rejected court-determined competition and preferred to
rely upon regulation under an expert administrative
agency.
It is in the light of this background that we must consider § 14 Third of the Shipping Act of 1916, which both
the Court of Appeals and this Court have construed
as prohibiting the dual-rate contract system. The section imposes a heavy fine for conduct it makes criminal
and so should be strictly construed. See Yates v. United
States, 354 U. S. 298, 304-305. It deserves narrow
construction also on the ground that it is an undoubted
exception to a comprehensive and complex scheme of
regulation by the Board. For it must be construed not
as though it were an isolated piece of writing but as part
of a reticulated scheme of government for the shipping
industry. No form of conduct should be brought within
its terms that was not designed to be included. As the
foregoing survey of the legislative history demonstrates,
there is no evidence of such purpose with respect to the,
dual-rate contract system. The evidence in fact points
to the intention of its exclusion.
Under no fairly applicable meaning of the word "retaliation" can the conclusion of the Court of Appeals, that

514

ODTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

the initiation and maintenance of a dual-rate contract
system is retaliation, be sustained. It is clear from the
congressional history that the framers of the legislation
were concerned with certain forms of conduct, notably
refusal of available' accommodations, directed against
shippers because they had previously done such things
as shipping by an independent line or publicly filing cornplaints against carriers. The very concept of retaliation
is that the retaliating party takes action against the party
retaliated against after, and because of, some action of
the latter. In the dual-rate con-tract system, th&e is
nothing of this "getting even"; the parties simply enter
into an agreement that is designed to guide their future
conduct but in no way depends upon or arises out of past
conduct. It does violence to. the English language-and
certainly to the duty of reading congressional language
in context-to characterize such a contractual arrangement as "retaliation." As conduct relating to the competitive struggle between carriers combined in a conference and those who prefer to stay out-yes; as an act of
reprisal-no.
But if the dual-rate contract system is not "retaliation,"
then it does not violate § 14 Third, for it seems evident
that that section was directed only at retaliation. It is,
indeed,' rather inartfully drawn, but under the circumstances, and particularly in light of the legislative background, its ambiguities should be resolved in favor of
the narrower construction. The recommendation of the
Alexander Committee, supra, a body on which Congress
placed an extraordinarily high degree of reliance with
respect to the regulatory aspects of the Shipping Bill, contemplated nothing but "retaliation." When, four months
later,'the recommendation had been put into the language'
of proposed legislation, it took substantially the form it
takes in the statute as enacted. No doubt, the intention
to limit the application of the provision to "retaliation"

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO.
481

FRANKFURTER,

515

J., dissenting.

is not so clear in the statutory language as it was in the
recommendation; however, since there is no evidence of
purposefulness in this change, and no apparent reason
for it, the alteration in language should not be regarded
as having effected a decisive change in the substance of
the provision. Attaching such drastic significance to
this change in wording has no supporting reason and is
contradicted by the underlying philosophy of the legislation. This conclusion is emphasized by the fact that
after the change the Committee Reports in both Houses
of Congress quoted the language of the recommendation'
in support of the proposed legislation without qualification. And in the House debate, when Representative
Alexander was briefly summarizing the provisions of the
bill, he said, in describing the provision that became § 14
Third, nothing more than that it "forbids retaliation
against shippers who patronize other carriers, or complain
of unfair treatment by refusing, or threatening to refuse,
space accommodations when available, or by other unfair
practices . . ." 53 Cong. Rec. 8080. Surely, when
there is nothing iiA the legislative history to suggest that
Congress wished to prohibit the dual-rate contract system
of which they were fully aware, and everything to suggest that § 14 Third was designed to respond solely to
an entirely different problem, that section cannot be
stretche to embrace that practice and thereby to undercut the ationale of the legislation.
The ourt's construction makes of the latter portions,
of § 14 Third a general catchall. The relevant words,
as abstracted from the entire provision, would be these:
"No common carrier by Water-shall, directly or indirectly . .
resort to .
. discriminating or unfair
methods ... for *any . . . reason." Such a provisioneven if it be limited to, conduct designed to "stifle" competition-wpuld not only make the remainder of § 14
redundant but would be inconsistent 'ith the whole

516

OCTOBER TERM,. 1957.
FRAxKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

356 U.9

philosophy, not to say the language, of much of the regulatory portion of the Shipping Act. There is nothing in
the words of the statute or in its congressional background
to indicate that Congress intended to bury such a broad
prohibition in the third portion of a four-part penal section. Moreover, as. noted above, the most probable
explanation for the generality of the language in § 14
Third is that Congress sought to cover forms of retaliation that shippers had been afraid to bring to the
legislators' attention.
Nor is-there any merit to the suggestion that if Congress made "deferred rebates" unlawful, the practice of
dual-rate contracts-although not specifically prohibited-should also be unlawful because it has "the
same objectionable purpose and effect." This mode of
approach is a judicial utilization of the salesmanship
that offers something as "just as good." This Court
certainly has not the power to say that conduct is unlawful simply because it is "just as bad" as some' conduct
that Congress has specifically prohibited. The principal b sis that the Alexander Committee set forth for its
conclusion that deferred rebates were objectionable was
precisely that the rebates were deferred. The Committee, in outlining the objections that had been made to
steamship agreements, noted that "[b]y deferring the
payment of the rebate until three or six months following the period to which the rebate applies ship owners
effectively tie the merchants to a group of lines for successive periods." Report, supra, at 307. The Committee recited the contentioh that "the ordinary contract
system does not place the shipper in the position of continual dependence that results from the deferred rebate
system" (ibid.); it is'not unlikely that they had in mind
the dual-rate contract system. This Court in Swayne &
Hoyt, Ltd., v. United States, 300 U. S. 297, adopted
that point of view when it said (300 U. S., at 307, n. 3):

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO. 517
481

FRANKrURTER,

J., dissenting.

"The Committee recognized that the exclusive contract
system does not necessarily tie up the shipper as completely as 'deferred rebates,' since it does not place him
in 'continual dependence' on the carrier by forcing his
exclusive patronage for one contract period under threats
of forfeit of differentials accumulated during a previous
contract period."
Twice this Court has rejected the contention that it
now accepts. Twice this Court has held that the Shipping Act of 1916 did'not render illegal per se a dual-rate
contract system enforced by a combination of steamship
carriers essentially like the one now before- the Court,
whereby lower rates are tied to an agreement for exclusive
carriage. Such were the decisions, upon full consideration, in United States Navigation Co. v. CunardS. S. Co.,
284 U. S. 474, in 1932 and again in Far East Conference
v. United States, 342 U. S. 570, in 1952 by a wholly differently constituted Court. In both these cases the claim
was that such a dual-rate system constituted a combination in violation of the Sherman Act, for which relief by
way of an injunctfon could be had by a competing carrier
outside the conference, as in the Cunard case, and by the
United States, as in the Far East Conference case, under
§ 4 of the Sherman Act. The immediate issue in both
cases was, of course, the applicability of the principle of
"primary jurisdiction"-that is, whether the legality'of a
dual-rate system could be adjudicated by a United States
District Court without a determination by the Federal
Maritime Board as to whether "the matters complained
of" (United States Navigation Co. v. Cunard S. S. Co.,
supra, at 478) and whether the dual-rate system "on the
merits ' (Far East Conference v. United Statesi: supra,
at 573) offend the Shipping Act of 1916. The doctrine
of "primary jurisdictign" was recognized by Mr. Chief Justice Taft as an achievement whereby its author,.Mr. Chief
Justice White, "had more to do with placing this vital

OCTOBER TERM, ,957.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

356 U.S.

part of our practical government on a useful basis than
any other- judge." (257 U. S. xxv.) The Court's
opinion makes of it an empty ritual.
By virtue of these two decisions, an independent shipowner who claimed to be hurt by the operation of a dualrate contract system, employed as a competitive measure
against him by a shipping conference, could not bring his
complaint to court as might a manufacturer hurt by an
analdgous combination competitor. Such a shipowner
would have to appeal to the Federai Maritime Board, as
did Isbrandtsen. The ensuing Board proce'dings w.ould
probably be similar to those in this case. On Isbrandtsen's protests, filed January 12, 1953, and amended on
January 19, hearings were conducted before a Board
Examiner from October 5 to December 23, 1953, in which
was compiled a record of over 4,500 pages of testimony
and over 150 exhibits. The examiner rendered his recommended decision on September 13, 1954, but on October 6
the Board remanded the record for supplemental findings
of fact; these supplemental findings were served'- on
January 17, 1955. Eleven months 'later the Board filed
its'detailed, comprehensive report approving the conference's dual-rate system (as amended in accordance with
the Board's report) as not unjustly discriminatory or
unfair, nor likely to operate to the detriment of the.
commerce of the United States; nor in violation of the
Shipping Act. But all this elaborate process and determination are legally meaningless. The agency is made
to serve as a crcumlocution office. The sole function of
this- carnival of procedural emptiness is that of a formal
preliminary to a suit in a federal court. For such a suit,
the Court now holds; is to proceed in complete disregard"
of all the hearing, weighing and interpreting of cvidence
before the Board. The.Court is to make a ruling-of law
with entire indifference to all the findings of the expert
body set up to make appropriate findings on the basis pf

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO. 519
481

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

the law's policy. Surely it is a form of playfulness to
make resort to the Board a prerequisite when the judicial
determination .of law could have been made precisely as
though there had been no proceeding before the Board.
This i to make a mockery of the doctrine of primary
jurisdiction and to interpret the decisions in the Cunard
and Far, East Conference cases as utterly wasteful
futilides.
.
Until today the doctrine of "primary jurisdiction" was
not an empty ritual. Its observance in scores of cases
was not a wasteful futility.' In denying to the District
Courts jurisdiction in situations like those in the Cunard
and Par East Conference cases the doctrine of primary
jurisdiction was not devised for the purposeless delay of
giving the same jurisdiction to Courts of Appeals, on condition that they use the administrative agency as a sterile
conduit to them.. Such a view would denigrate and distort the significance'of one of the most important movements in our law. Legal scholars have rightly 6ompared

it to the rise of equity, a view endorsed by this Court
through Mr. Chief Justice Stone, himself a scholar. See
United State&v. Morgan, 307 U. S. 183, 19. -The utilization of these administrative agencies'is a legislative
realization, judicially respected, that the regulltory needs
of modern society demand law-enforcing tribunals other
than the conventional courts. The doctrine of primary
jurisdiction, based as it is on the discharge of functions
for which courts normally have neither training and
experience nor procedural freedoms, is an essential
aspect of this modern administrative law. It is a means
of achieving the proper distribution of the law-enforcing
roles as between administrative agencies and courts, It
gives these agencies the necessary scope for, expIoring a
wide realm of facts, not to be confined within the exclusionary rules of evidence controlling proceedings in courts,
to weigh such facts with an- expert's understanding and

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

to choose between allowable inferences where wise choice
so often depends on informed judgment.7 These agencies
do not supplant courts. They are subject to what may
broadly be called the judicial Rule of Law. Appeal lies
to courts to test whether an agency acted within its statutory bounds, on the basis of rational evidence supporting
a reasoned conclusion, and ultimately satisfies the constitutional requirement of due process. Within these
limits, a large range of discretion is entrusted to administrative agencies to make effective the social and economic
policies adopted by Congress in the myriad concrete situations calling for their application. Whether rates are
reasonable, whether discriminations are fair, whether
particular combined economic arrangements are justified,
whether practices that would, for industry generally, fall
7"[The] differences in origin and function [between coult and
agency] preclude wholesale transplantation of the rules of procedure,
trial and review which have evolved frqm the history and experience
of courts.. Thus, this Court has recognized that bodies like the
Interstate Commerce Commission, into whose mould Congress has
cast more recent administrative agencies, 'should not be too narrowly
constrained, by technical rules as to the admissibility of proof,'
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25, 44, should
be free to fashion their own rules of procedure and to pursue methods
of inquiry capable of permitting them to discharge their multitudinous
duties. Compare New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184. To
-.be sure, the laws under, which these agencies operate prescribe the
fundamentals of fair play. They require that interested parties be
afforded an opportunity for hearing and that judgment must express
a reasoned conclusion. But to assimilate the relation of these administrative bodies and the courts to the relationship between lower and
upler courts is to disregard the origin and purposes of the movemerct
for administrative regulation and at the same 'time to disregard the
traditional scope, however far-reaching, of the judicial process., Un-

less these vital differentiations between the functions of judicial and
administrative tribunals are observed, courts will stray outside their
province and read the laws of Congress through the distorting lenses
of inapplicable legal doctrine." Federal Communications Comm'n v.
Pottsville BroadcastingCo., 309 U. S. 134, 143-144.

-

MARITIME" BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO. 521
481

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

afoul the Sherman Act are permissible under a legislative
regime for a particular industry that to that extent supersedes the antitrust laws-these and like questions come.
within the operation of the doctrine of primary jurisdic-.
tion, and it limits the power of courts to pass on their
merits.
Contrariwise, *here a decision of a case depends on
determination of a question of law as such, either because
of explicit statutory, outlawry of some specific -conduct
or by necessary implication of judicial power because not
involving the exercise of administrative discretion or the
need of uniform application of specialized competence,
the doctrine of primary jurisdiction has no function,
because there is no occasion to refer a matter to the
administrative agency. Great Northern R. Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259 U. S. 285 (reaffirmed in United
States v. Western Pacific R. Co., 352 U. S.-59, 69); Texas
& Pacific R. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. R. Co., 270 U. S. 266;
Civil Aeronautics Board v. Modern Air Transport, Inc.,
179 F. 2d 622, 624-625; see Davis, Administrative Law,
666-668. The course of decisions was accurately summarized in Montana-DakotaUtilities Co. v. Northwestern
Public Service Co., 341 U. S. 246; 254: "...
we know of
no case where the court has ordered reference of an issue
which the administrative body would not itself have
jurisdiction to determine in a proceeding for that purpose." It would be a travesty of law and an abuse of
the judicial process to force litigants to ufidergo an expensive and merely delaying administrative proceeding when
the case must eventually be decided on a controlling legal
issue wholly unrelated to determinations for the ascertainment of which the proceeding was sent to the agency.
Such, however, is the result in this case.
The Cunard and'Far East Conference decisions mean
nothing if they do not mean that the denial of jurisdiction to the District Courts to entertain the suits in those
487

O-5---7

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

356 U. S.

cases and their reference to the Federal Maritime Board,
and the holding that the complaints against the dual-rate
system in those two cases must be passed on by the Board,
constituted the plainest possible recognition that it was
for the Board to approve or disapprove the dual-rate contract system complained of, and, therefore, that the practice was'not illegal as a matter of law-that is, by virtue
of a statutory condemnation. In. both cases the Court's
attention was directed to the claiff of per se illegality.
In both cases the plaintiffs urged that, since the dual-rate
contract system violated § 14, the Board was without
power to approve it. Brief for Petitioner, pp. 47-56,
United States Navigalion Co. v. Cunard S. S. Go., 284
U. S. 474; Brief for United States, pp. 22-23 (incorporating by reference Brief for United States pp. 21-45,
A/S J. Ludwig Mowinckels Rederi v. IsbrandtseniCo.,[
342 U. S. 950), Far East Conference v. United States,
342 U. S. 570. See also United States Navigation Co. v.
Cunard S. S. Co., 284 U. S. 474, 478 (argument of-petitioner's counsel). And in FarEast Cinference;tteclaim
that now prevails was a main ground of dissent . See
342 U. S., at 578-579.8 When an issue is squarely and
S

The Court in the Casnardcase discussed the claim in the following

terms:
"It is said that the agreement referred to in the bill of complaint
cannot legally be approved. But this is by no means clear ...
[W] hatever may be the form of the agreement, and whether it be
lawful or unlawful upon its face, Congress undoubtedly intended that
the board should possess the authority primarily to hear and adjudge
the matter. For the courts to take jurisdiction in advance of such
hearing and determination would be to usurp that authority. Moreover, having regard to the pecu ar nature of ocean traffic, it is Dnot
impossible that, although an agreement be apparently bad on its
face, it properly might, upon a full consiaeration of all the attending
circumstances, be approved or allowed to stand with modifications.":

284 U. S., at 487.
It may be noted .that, after this Court ordered the dismissal of the.

MARITIME BOARD v. ISBRANDTSEN CO., 523
481

FRANxFURTER, J., dissenting.

fully presented to the Court and its disposition is essential to the result reached in a case, the issue is decided,
whether the Court says much or little, whether the opinion is didactic or elliptical. Otherwise very few opinions
in which Mr. Justice Holmes spoke for the Court, in
most instances tersely and often cryptically, would have
formulated decisions.
Nor can these cases be distinguished on their facts.
The complaints in both cases alleged that the conferences
had initiated the dual-rate contract system in order to
eliminate competition. See United States Navigation
Co. v. Cunard S. S. Co., 284 U. S. 474, 479-480; Transcript of Record, p. 6, Far East Conference v. United
State&342 U. S. 570. And the dual-rate agreement involved in Far.East Conference was, if anything, more
coercive and more closely analogous to a system of
deferred rebates than is the one involv;ed in the cases.
before the Court. It provided (§ 4) that if a shipper
violated the agreement, the agreement was void, and the
shipper became liable to pay "additional freight on all
commodities theretofore shipped with such carriers for a
period not exceeding twelve months immediately pre-.
ceding the date of such shipment, at the non-contract rate
or rates . .." Transcript of Record, p. 18. Such an
accumulation of potential liability was much more likely
to. result in "continual dependence" on the conference
than is the liquidated damages provision in the agreement
before us. The latter provides for damages of 50 percent
of the freight that would have been paid under the agreement (i. e., at the lower, or contract rate) for the shipment made in violation of the agreement; the agreement
complaints in the Cunard and Far "EastCbnference cases, the complaining party in neither case initiated proceedings before the Board
conberning the. dul-rate system involved. The Government has,
however, intervened in Board proceedings involving the systems of
other conferences, as it did in the instant case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.

524

HARLAN,- J.,

dlssenting.

356 U. S.

does not become void on account of a single violation.
There is no basis for concluding that these damages are
unreasonably high or that they do not bear a rational
relation to the actual loss a carrier sustains when he is
denied a shipment to which his contract entitles him.
Since this Court has twice rejected the theory that dualrate contract systems violate § 14 of the Shipping Act,
and since there is nothing in that statute or its.legislative
history to suggest that those cases were wrongly decided
in the light of new knowledge not before the Court when
they- were, decided, the question in this case is, as it was
•in the earlier two cases, one lying within the Board's
administrative discretion. As I see no reason for overturning the detailed, well-reasoned report of the Board
in these proceedings, I am of opinion that the decision
of the Court of Appeals should be reversed.
" MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

Except in one respect, I agree with the dissenting opin-

ion of MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER.

I do not think that

this Court's decisions in United States Navigation Co. v.
CunardSteamship Co., 284 U. S.474, and FarEast Conference v. United States, 342 U. S. 570, have the effect
which that opinion attributes to them. Despite the logic
of the argument flowing from the doctrine of primary
jurisdiction, and the lack of any substantial factual dis:
tinction between the agreements in those cases and in
this one, I am unable- t5 read Cunard and Far East
Conference as having -deterniin d without any discussion, the far-reaching question which has been decided
.today. See especially Cunard,'284-U. S., at 483-484, 487.
On the merits, however, I dissent for the reasons set forth

in MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER'S

opinion.

