YATES v. UNITED STATES.
Per Curiam.

YATES v. UNITED STATES.
ON

PETITION FOR WRIT- OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 841.

Decided May 5, 1958.

Petitioner was tried and convicted for conspiracy to violate the
Smith Act; but the conviction was reversed by this Court. 354
U. S. 298. For contempts and other subsidiary matters in the course
of these proceedings, petitioner served over seven months' imprisonment on the basis of actions by the District Court, several of
which were set asi'de on appeal. One contempt action resulted
in petitioner's conviction for eleven contempts, and she was sentenced to eleven concurrent terms of one year's imprisonment.
Finding that there was only one contempt, .this Court remanded the
case to the District Court for 'appropriate resentencing. 35 U. S.
66. The District Court resentenced petitioner to imprisonment for
one year for the single contempt. Held: Certiorari granted; judgment vacated; and cause remanded to the District Court with
diredtions to reduce the sentence to the time petitioner has already
been confined in the course Qf these proceedings. Pp. 363-367.
252 F. 2d 558, judgment vacated and cause remanded to District
Court with directions.
Ben Margolis and Leo Branton, Jr. for petitioner.
Solicitor General Rankin, Assistant Attorney General

Tompkins and Philip R. Monahan for the United States.
PER CURIAM.

This case has a long history, the course of which must
be summarized for understanding of the Court's d.sposition. On July 26, 1951, petitioner was arrested-fir conspiracy to violate the Smith Act, 18 U. S. C. §§ 371, 2385,
and was released on furnishing $7,500 bail. On the following day bail was increased to $50,000 pending transfer
of the proceedings to a different city and petitioner was
recommitted. On August 2 petitioner was arraigned, and
several days later bail- was set at $25,000. Petitioner's

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Per, Curiam.

356 U. S.

writ of habeas corpus seeking a reduction- of bail wasdismissed.. The district judge who had fixed bail was
disqualified, see Connelly v. United States District.Court,
191 F. 2d 692, and. the district judge whose sentence is
now under review was assigned to the case. On motion
of the Government, the court increased bail to $50,000
on August 30; petitioner's motion to reduce bail and her
petition for a writ of habeas corpus were denied; on
review of the denial of habeas corpus, the Court of
Appeals affirmed, Stack v. Boyle, 192 F. 2d 56. This
Court, however, found that bail had "not been fixed by
proper methods" and remitted the case for the proper
remedy of a motion to reduce bail, Stack v. Boyle, 342
U. S. 1, 7. The District Court denied such motion by
petitioner, United States v. Schneiderman, 102 F. Supp.
52; on appeal, the Court of Appeals ordered bail set at
$10,000. Stack v. United States, 193 F. 2d 875. Shortly
thereafter, on December 10, 1951, petitioner, having been.
found to have been irhproperly confined since August 30
of that year, was released on baiL
The trial under the conspiracy indictment began 'on
February 5, 1952. Testifying in her own defense, petitioner on cross-examination on Juie26 refused to answer
four questions about Communist membership of other
persons; she- was adjudged guilty of cikil contempt and
committed to jail until the contempt had been purged.
On June 30 she refused-to answer-eleven questions about
Communist membership of other persons; the court
annoulced its intention to treat these refusals as criminal
contenpt, - At the conclusion of the trial petitioner was
found guilty of conspiracy to violate the Smhith Act and
was sentenced to serve -five years' imprisonment and to
pay a $10,900 fine. -TheDistrict Court denied bail pending appeal of the conspiracy conviction; on application
to the Court of Appeals to fix bail, the.case was remanded
to the District.Court, which again denied bail. .rnited

YATES v. UNITED STATES.
363

Per Curiam.

States v. Schneiderman, 106 F. Supp. 941. The Court
of Appeals then fixed bail at $20,000, and on August 30
petitioner, upon furnishing that amount, was released
from custody, having been in jail since June 26., The
conspiracy conviction was later affirmed by the Court of
Appeals, 225 F. 2d 146, but reversed by this Court, 354
U. S.298. The indictment was eventually dismissed on
motion of the Government.
Petitioner had in the meantime, on August 8, 1952,
been adjudged guilty of eleven criminal contempts for
her eleven refusals to answer on June ,0,.and she was sentenced by the District Court to eleven one-year terms of
imprisonment, to run concurrently, and to commeiice
upon the completion of petitioner's imprisonment for-he
conspiracy.. Itis as to this sentence that review is sought
here today.
On September 3, 1952, four days after petitibner's
release from custody, the District Court ordered her 'recommitted on the civil conteinpt arising., out of the four
.refusals to answer on June 26. r 1 0 7 F. Supp. 408. The
District Court denied her application for bail pending
appeal, but the Court of Appeals granted'it, and she was
released two days after her commitment; the Court of
Appeals subsequently -reversed the recommitment order
of the District Court on the ground that petitioner should
not have been reconfined for civil contempt after te close
of the main trial.. 227 F. 2d 844. Two. days after her
release on bail, on September 8; petitioner -vas adjudged
guilty of criminal contempt fof the four June 26 refusals
and sentenced to four three-year terms of imprisonment,
to run concurrently. 107 F. Supp. 412. Petitioner was
then reconfined; th6 District Court denied-her bail pending appeal, but the Court of Appeals granted it, and she
was released on bai.l three days after her recommTtment.
The Court of-Appeals subsequently reversed this contempt judgment because of the District Court's failure

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Per Curian.

356 U. S,-

to give any notice that it intended to regard the June
26 refusals as criminal contempts, 227 F. 2d 848.
Petitioner appealed her conviction of criminal contemptfor the eleven refusals to answer on June 30; the Court
of Appeals affirmed. 227 F. 2d 851. This Court held that
there was but one contempt, not eleven, and that a sentence for only one offense could be imposed. Accordingly,
we vacated the one-year sentence for that one conviction
and remanded the case to the District Court- for determination of a new sentence appropriate in view of our
setting aside of the punishment for eleven offenses when
in fact only one was legally established. 355 U. S. 66.
On remand, the District Court, after hearing, resentencedpetitioner to one year's imprisonment. The court denied
petitioner bail pending appeal- the Court of Appeals
ordered her admitted to bail in the amount of $5,000,
252 F. 2d 568, and she was released after fifteen days'
confinement. The Court of Appeals. affirmed the judgment of the District Court, noting that the sentence was
"severe." Ibid.
Reversing a judgment for contempt because of errors
of substantive law may naturally call for a reduction of
the sentence based on an extent of wrongdoing found
unsustainable in law. -Such reduction of the sentence,
however, normally ought not be made by this Court., It
should be left, on remand, to the sentencing court. And
so, when this Court found that only a single offense was
committed by ptitioner, and not eleven offenses, it chose
not to reduce the sentence but to leave this task, withgentle intimations of the necessity for such action; to the
District Court. However, when in a situation like this
the District Court appears not to have exercised its discretion in the light of the reversal of the judgment but, in
effect, to have sought merely to justify the original sentence, this Court has no'alternative except to exercise its
supervisory power over the administration of justice in

YATES v.- UNITED STATES.
363

CLARK, J.,

dissenting.

the lower federal courts by setting aside the sentence of
the Distridt Court.
Although petitioner's conviction under the Smith Act,
the substantive offense out of which this subsidiary inatter arose, was reversed on appeal' and the indictment
itself dikihissed on motion of the Government, she has
in fact spent seven months in jail in the course of these
proceedings. Not unmindful of petitioner's offense, this
Court is of the view, exercising the judgment that we are
now called upon to exercise, that the time that petitioner
has already served in jail is an adequate punishment for
her offense in refusing to answer questions and is to b*e
deemed in satisfaction of the new sentence herein.ordered
formally to be imposed.- Accordingly, the writ of certiorari is granted, and the judgment of the Court of Appeals
is vacated and the cause remanded to the District Court
with directions to reduce the sentence to'the time petitioner has already been- confined in the course -of these
proceedings.
It ii so. ordered.
BLACK, and MR.
fok *easons set out
in their dissents in Yates v. United States, 355 U. S. 66,
76; and Green vr United States, 356 U. S. 165, 193, but.
under constraint of the Court's holdings in those cases
they acquiesce in the opinion here.
THE

"JUSTICE

JUSTICE, MR. -JUSTICEDOUGLAS concur in the result

CHIEF

MR. JUSTICE CLARK, with whom.MR. JUSTICE BURTON
and MR. JUSTICE WHITTAKER concur, dissenting.
It is for us to say whether the one-year sentence wasimproper rather than to pass on the adequacy of time
already served on other judgments. Petitioner has
served but 15 days on this sentence, and I therefore
dissent from the jildgment releasing her.

