OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
S.

Syllabus.

356 U. S.

f'ALASKA INDUSTRIAL BOARD ST AL. v. CHUGACH
ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION, iNC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
THE

TATES COURT OF APPEALS. FOR

NINTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 303. Argued April 8, 1958.-Decided April 28, 1958.
In Alaska, an employee suffered an injury in the course of his
employment that resulted in the-amputation of an arm, amputation of four toes on his left foot, and, sometime later, amputation.
of his right leg -below the knee. The left foot had not healed three
years later, and the employee coutinued unable to work or to
obtain employment. His employer and its insurer (respondents
here) paid him "temporary disability" payments of S95 per week
for 38 weeks. Then they concluded that he had been totally and
permanently disabled-since the date of the last amputation and
was entitled under the Alaska Workmen's Compensation Act to a
lump-sum award of $8,100 and no more. They sent him a check
for that amount (less the total already paid for "temporary disability") and discontinued the "temporary disability" payments.
He then applied to the Alaska Industrial Board, which awarded
him "temporary. disability" payments from the date of the last
amputation, on the ground that his temporary disability "continues to this date, no end medical results having been reached."
Respondents sued' in a Federal District Court to set aside that
award. Held:
1. Under the Act, the fact that the employee had become entitled
to a'lump-sum payment for "total and permanent disability" did
not preclude a later award for continuing "temporary disability."
Pp. 323-324.
2. For "all injuries causing temporary disability," the Act provides for awards based on the employee's "average daily wage earning capacity"; their purpose is to compensate the employee for
lost vages during the healing period and until he is able to return
to work; and there is a, factual basis for such awards as long as
a continuing ability to do some work exists.' P. 324.
.3. Respondents' contentions that the employee's claim was not
timely filed and that for other reasons also the Board had no jurisdiction to enter its latest award were decided- adversely to them by
the Court of Appeals; they filed- no cross-petition here; and, there-

ALASKA IND. BD. v. CHUGACH ASSN.
320

321

Opinion of the Court.

fore, those questions are not open to respondents at this stage.
Pp. 324-325.
45 F. 2d 855, reversed and cause remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings.

John H. Dimond argued the cause for petitioners. On
the brief were J. Gerald Williams, Attorney General of
Alaska, for the Alaska Industrial Board, andMr. Dimond
for Jenkins, petitioners.
Frederick 0. .Eastaugh argued the cause for respond-'
ents. With him on the brief was Ralph E. Robertson.
MR. JUSTIm DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This, case presents an important question under the
Alaska Workmen's Compensation Act, 2 Alaska Comp.
L. Ann., 1949, ยง 43-3-1 et seq. Petitionei Jenkins, an
employee of respondent Chugach Electric Association,
was injured in the course of his 'employment. Three
surgical operations were required: amputation of his left
arm at the shoulder; amputation of four toes on his left
foot; and later, amputation of his right leg below the
knee. Though the injury occurred in September 1950,
the left foot had not healed three years later. As a result
Jenkins was for a rather long period totally disabled.
Respondents made "temporary disability"' payments to
'Section 43-3-1 of the Act makes the following provision for
"temporary disability":
"For all injuries causing temporary disability, the employer shall
pay to the employee, during the period, of such disability, sixty-five
per centum (65%) of his daily average wages. And in all cases
where the injury develops or proves to be such as to entitle the
employeeort- compensation under some provision in this schedule,
relating to r.-s!s other than temporary disability, the amcunt so paid
or due him shall be in addition to the dmount to which be shall be
entitled under such provision in this schedule.
"Payment for such temporary disability shaILbe made at.the time

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

Jenkins for approximately 38 weeks ($95.34 a week or a
total of $3,645). At that point they decided that Jenkins
had been totally and permanently disabled 2 since the
date of the last amputation and was therefore entitled to3
a lump-sum award of $8,100 under the Act and no more.
They thereupon sent him a check for that amount less the
$3,645 already received, viz., $4,455.
compensation is customarily paid. for labor performed or services
rendered at the plant or establishment of the employer liable therefoi
and not less than once"a month in any event.
"The average daily wage earning capacity of an injured employee
in case of temporary disability shall be determin dby his actual earnings, if such actual earnings fairly and reasonably represent his daily
wage earning capacity. If such earnings do not fairly and reasonably represent his daily wage. earning capacity, the Industrial Board
shall fix such daily wage earning capacity,"s shall be reasonable and
have a due regard for the nature of his injury, the degree of temporary impairment, his usual employment and any other factor,,or
circumstance in thd. case which may affect his capacity to earn wages
in his temporary disabl~d condition."
2
Section 43-3-1 of the Act defines total .and p~rmanent disability'
as follows:
"The loss of both hands, or both arms, or both feet, or both legs,
or both eyes, or any two thereof, or hearing n both ears, shall constitute total and permanent disability and be c6mpensated according to'
the provisiong of this Act with reference to total and permanent
disability.'
"Amputation between the'elbow and the wrist shall be considered
equivalent tb the loss of an arm, and amputation between the knee
and the ankle shall be considered equivalent to the loss of a leg."
3Section 43-3-1 of the Act provides:
"Where any such employee receiving an injury arising out of, and
in the course of his or her einployment, as the result of which he or
she is totally and permanently disabled, he or she shall be entitled to
receive compensation as follows:
"If such employee was at the time of his injury married he shall
be entitled to receiye Seven Thousand Two Hundred Dollars
($7,200.00) -with Nine Hundred Dollars ($900.00) additional for
each child under the age of eighteen (18) years, but the total to be
paid shall not exceed Nine Thousand Dollars ($9,000.00)."

ALASKA IND. BD. v. CHUGACH ASSN.
320

323

Opinion of the Court.

Jenkins then applied to the Alaska Industrial Board for
continuing benefits for temporary disability, despite his
receipt of -the lump-suir award for total and permanent
disability. The Board allowed him temporaiy disability
from -the date of the last amputation. - This temporary
disability, said the Board, "continues to this date, no end
medical result having been reached."
Respondents thereupon instituted this action in the
District Court to set aside the Board's decision. That
court reversed the Board, holding that an award of temporary disability could not be granted under the Act
-for physical disability arising from the same accident
in which 'a scheduled, lump-sum award for total permanent disability had been granted. 122 F. Supp. 210. The
Court of Appeals, sitting en banc, affirmed, by a divided
vote, modifying the judgment. 245 F. 2d 855. By that
modification the lump-sum award was not to be reduced
by the amount received as temporary disability prior to
that time.. The case is here on a petition for certiorari.
355 U. S. 810.
The Court of Appeals reasoned that the lump-sum
award fbr total and permanent disability was intended to
represent a capitalization of future earnings. It concluded, therefore, that Jenkins had been compensated by
the lump-sum award for any loss of future earnings and
that he could not get a further award for loss of earnings,
the lump-sum award being intended "as- a maximum
award." Id., at 862.
We read the Act differently. The lump-sum awards
for total and permanent disability under this Compensation Act ignore wage losses. Whatever the employee may
have made before, whatever his wages may be after the
injury, the award is the same. To that extent it is an
arbitrary amount. Bidt it is the expression of a legislative judgment that on average there has been a degree
of impairment, and whatever may be the fact in a, par-

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

ticular case, the lump sum should be paid without more.

See 2 Larson, Workmen's Compensation, ยง58-10.
There may, nevertheless, be a continuing ability to do
some work; and as long as that remaining -ability'exists
there is a factual basis for temporary disability awards.

That seems to be the theory of the Act for it extends those
awards to "all injuries causing temporary disability" and

bases them on the "average daily wage earning capacity"
of the injured employee, as determined by the Board.
That award takes care of the-lost wages-during the healing period and until the employee is able to return to work
though perhaps at a different job and at reduced pay.
It also compensates him for any temporary loss
of earning
power based on the "wage earning capacity" I that remains
after the injury. The Court of Appeals assumed there

was "no remaining- ability to worl" and therefore "no
foundation for temporary disability benefits." 245 F.
2d, at 862. But the Act, we think, is drawn on a different
hypothesis. It seems to provide a system of temporary
disabilities to all who are injured, whether their injuries
are disfigurement,' partial permanent disability," total
and permanent disability,8 or so minor as to fali in lesser
categories. Any other reading would seem to be hostile

to the benign purpose of this legislation. Cf. BLaltimore
& Phila.S. Co. v. Norton, 284 U. S. 408, 414.
Respondents maintain that Jenkins' claim was not

timely filed and that for other reasons also the Board had
Note 1, supra.
5Note 1, supra.
6Section 43-3-1 provides:
"The Industrial Board may award proper and equitable compen4

sation for serious head, neck, facial, or other disfigurement, not
exceeding, however, the sum of Two Thousand Dollars ($2,000.00)."
7 Section 43-3-1 provides a schedule of partial permanent liability
for losses of thumbs, toes, fingers, arms, legs, eyes, nose, and ear.
See note 2, supra.

ALASIJA IND. BD. v. CHUGACH ASSN.
320

Opinion of the Court.

no jurisdiction to enter this award. These questions were
decided adversely to respondents by the Court of Appeals
and no cross-petition was filed, here. .Those -juestions
are therefore not open to respondents at this stage.
LeTulle v. Scofield, 308 U. S. 415, 421-422.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to
the District Court for proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.

Reversed.
MR. JUsTicE WH ITTAER, believing that an injured
workman cannot be, or be legally compensated as, both
"totally and permanently disabled" and "temporarily
totally disabled" at one and the same time under the
Alaska Workmen's Compensation Act, would affirm for
the reasons stated by the Court of Appeals, 245 F. 2d,
at 862.

