SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

SHERMAN v. TJNITED STATES
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 87.

Argued January 16, 195S.-Decided May 19, 1958.

At petitioner's trial in a Federal District Court for selling narcotics
in violation of 21 U. S. C. § 174, he relied on the defense of entrapmerit. From the undisputed testimony of the Government's witDesses, it appeared that a government informer had met petitioner
at a doctor's office where both were being treated to cure narcotics
addiction, the informer asked petitioner to help him to obtain
narcotics for his own use, petitioner seemed reluctant to do so: the
informer persisted, and finally petitioner made several small purchases of narcotics and let the informer have half of each amoutrf
purchased at cost, plus expenses._ By prearrangement, other
government agents then obtained evidence of three similar sales
to the informer, for which petitioner was indicted. Ex'cept for a
record of two convictions nine and five years previously, there was
no evidence that petitioner himself was in the trade or that he
showed a "ready complaisance" to the informer's request. The
factual issue whether the informer bad persuaded the otherwise
unwilling petitiofier to make the sale or whether petitioner .was
already predisposed to do so and exhibited only the natural hesitancy of one acquainted with the narcotics trade was submitted to
the jury, which found petitioner guilty. Held: On. the record in
this ca~e, entrapment was established as a matter of law, and
petitioner's conviction is reversed. Pp. 370-378.
(a) Entrapment occurs only when the criminal conduct was
"the product of the creative activity" of law-enforcement officials.
P. 372.
(b) Th3 undisputed testimony of the Government's witaesses
established entrapment a9 a matter of law. P. 373.
(c) Although the informer was not being paid, the Government
cannot disown him or disclaim responsibiliiy for his actions,, since
he was an active government informer who was himself awaiting
trial on narcotics charges, for which he'was later given a suspended
sentence. Pp. 373-374.

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

(d) It makes no difference that the sales for which petitioner
was convicted occurred after a series of sales, since they were not
independent acts subsequent to the inducement but were part of
a course of conduct which was the product of the inducement.
P. 374.
(e) The Governmentcannot make such use of an iiformer and
then claim disassociation through ignorance of the way in which
he operated. Pp. 374-315.
(f) The evidence -was insufficient to overcome the defense of
entrapment by showing that petitioner evinced a "ieady complaisance" to accede to the informer's, request. Pp. 375-376.
(g) This Court adheres to the- doctrine of the Court's opinion
in Sorrells v. United States, 287 U. S. 435,'and declines to -reassess
the doctrine of entrapment according to the principles announced
in the separate opinion of Mr. Justice Roberts in that case, such
issues not having been raised by the parties either in this Court
or in the lower courts. Pp. 376-378.
240 F. 2d 949, reversed and cause remanded.
Henry A. Lowenberg argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
James W. Knapp argued the cause for the United
States. On the brief were Solicitor General Rankin,
Warren Olney, HII, then Assistant Attorney General,
Beatrice Risenberg and Robert (G. Maysack.
MR. CHIEF JUsTICE WARREN
the Court.

delivered the opinion of

The ,issue before us is whether betitioner's conviction
should be set asite-on the ground that as a matter of law
the defense of entrapment was estab shed. Petitioner
Was convicted under an indictment charging three sales of
narcotics in violation of. 21U.

. C. § 174.

A previous

conviction had been reversed on account of improper
instructions

to the issue of entrapmbnt.- '200 F. 2d 880.

In the.second trial, as in the .first, petitioner's defense was

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
369

Opinion of the Court.

a claim of entrapment: an agent of the'Kedirl Government induced him to take-p-rt in illegal transactions when
otherwise he would not have done so.
In late August 1951, Kalchinian, a government informer, first met petitioner at a doctor's office where
apparently both were being treated to be cured of narcotics. addiction. Several accidental meetings followed,
either at the doctor's office or at the pharmacy where both
filled their prescriptions from the doctor. From mere
greetings, conversation progressed to a discussion of
mutual experiences and problems, including their attempts to overcome addiction to narcotics. Finally Kalchinian asked petitioner if he knew of a good source of
narcotics. He asked petitioner to supply him with a
source because he was not responding to treatment
From the first, petitioner tried to avoid the issue. Not
until after a number of repetitions of the request, predicated on Kalchinian's presumed suffering, did petitioner
finally acquiesce. Several times thereafter he obtained a
quantity of narcotics which he shared with Kalchinian.
Each time petitioner told Kalchinian that the total cost
of narcotics he obtained was twenty-five dollars and that
Kalchinian owed him fifteen dollars. The informer thus
.bore the cost of his share of the narcotics plus the taxi and
other expenses necessary to obtain the drug. After several such sales Kalchinian informed agents of the Bureau
of Narcotics that he had another seller for them. On
three occasions during November 1951, government agents
observed petitioner give narcotics to Kalchinian in return
for money supplied by-the Government.
At the trial the factual issue was whether the informer
had convinced an otherwise unwilling person to ommit a
criminal act or whether petitioner was already predisposed to commit the act and exhibited only'the natural
hesitancy of one acquainted with the narcotiss -trade.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the. Court.

356 U. S.

The issue of entrapment went to the jury,' and a conviction resulted. Petitioner was sentenced to imprisonment
for ten years. The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed. 240 F. 2d 949. We granted certiorari.
353 U. S. 935.
In Sorrells v. United States, 287 U. S. 435, this Court
firmly recognized the defenise of entrapment in the federal
courts. The intervening years have in no way detracted
from the-principles underlying that decision. The function of law enforcement is the prevention of.crime and the
apprehension of criminals. Manifestly, that function
does not include the manufacturing of crime. Criminal
activity is such- that stealth and strategy are -necessary
weapons in the arsenal of the police officer. However,
"A differefit question is .presented when the criminal
design originates with the officials of the .Governmeint,
and they implant in the mind of an innocent person the
disposition to commit the alleged offense and induce its
commission in order that they may prosecute.". 287
U. S., at 442. Then stealth and strategy become as objectionable police methods as the coerced confession and the
unlawful search. Congress could not have intended that
its statutes were to be enforced by tempting innocent
persons into violations.
However, the fact that government agents "merely
afford opportunities or facilities for the commission of the
offense does not" constitute entrapment. Entrapment
occurs only when the criminal conduct was "the product
of the creative activity" of law-enforcement officials.
(Emphasis supplied.) See 287 U. S., at 441, 451. To
deterinine whether entrapmen has been established, a
line must be drawn between the trap for the unwary
innocent and the trap for the unwary criminal. The prin1

Thie -charge to the jury was not in issue here.'

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
369

Opinion of.the Court.

ciples by which the courts are to make this determination
were outlined in Sorrells. On the one hand, at trial the
accused may examine the conduct of the government
agent; and on the other hand, the accused will be subjected to an "'appropriate and searching inquiry into his
own conduct and predisposition" as bearing on his claim
of innocence. See 287-U. S.,Sat 451.
We conclude from the evidence that entrapment was
established as a matter of law. In so holding, we are not
choosing between conflicting witnesses, nor judging credibility. Aside from reclling Kalchinian, who was the
Government's witness, the defense called no witnesses.
We reach our conclusion from the undisputed testimony
of the prosecution's witnesses.
It is patently clear that petitioner was induced by
Kalchinian. The informer himself testified that, believing petitioner to be undergoing a cure for narcotics, addiction, he nonetheless sought to persuade petitioner to'
obtain for him a source of narcotics. In Kalchinian's
own words we are told of the accidental, yet recurring,
meetings, the ensuing conversations concerning mutual
experiences in regard to narcotics addiction, and then of
Kalchinian's resor--to sympathy. One request was not
enough, for Kalchinian tells us that additional ones were
necessary to cvercome, first, petitioner's refusal, then his
evasiveness, and then his hesitancy in order to achieve
capitulation. Kalchinian not only procured a source of
narcotics but apparently also induced pe.titioner to return
to the habit. Finally, assured of a catch, Kalchinian
informed the authorities so that they could close the net.
The Government cannot disown Kalchinian and insist it
is not responsible for his actions. Although he was not
being paid, Kalchinian was an active government informer who had but recently been the instigator of at least

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.Opinion of the Court.

356 U. S.

two other pros.ecutions.2 . Undoubtedly the impetus for
such achievements was the fact that in 1951 Kalchinian
,was himself under criminal charges for illegally 'selling
narcotics and had not yet been sentenced.? It makes no
difference that the sales for which petitioner -was convicted occurred after a series of sales. They were not
independent acts subsequent to the inducement but part
of a course of conduct which was the product of the
inducement. In his testimony the federal agent in charge
of the case admitled that he never-bothered to-question
Kalchinian about the way he: had made contact with
And it was your [Kalchinian's] job, was it to, while you
were working with these agents to go out and try and induce some-body to sell you narcotics, isn't that true?
2"Q.

"'A. No, it wasn't- my job at all to do anything of the kind.
'(Q. Do you remember this question [asked at the first trial]'Q. And it was your job while working with these agents to go out
and try and induce a person to sell narcotics to you, isn't that correct?
A. I would say yes to that.' Do you remember that?,
"A. If that is what I said, let it stand just that Way.
"Q. So when you testify now that it was not, your job you are
not telling the truth?
"A. I mean by job that "nobody-,ired me for that. That is what
I inferred, otherwise I meant the same thing in my answer to your
question." R. 100.
3
"Q. ]ut you had made a proinise, an agreement, though, to cooperatu with the Federal Bureau of Narcotics before you received
a suspended sentence from the court?
"A. [Kalchinian]. I had promised to cooperate in 1951.
"Q. And that was before your sentence?
"A.. Yes, that'was before my'sentence." R. 99:
Ialchinian received a suspended sentence in 1952 after a statement
by the United States Attorney to the Judge that he had been cooperative with the Government. R. 89, 98.

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
369

Opinion of the Court.

petitioner. The Government cannot make'such use of
an informner and then -claim di-sassociation through
ignorance.
The Government sought to overcome the defense of
entrapment by claiming that petitioner evinced a "ready
complaisance" to accede to Kalchinian's request. Aside
from a record of past convictions, which we discuss in the
following paragraph, the Government's case is unsupported. There is no evidence that petitioner himself was
in -the trade. When his apartment was searched after
arrest, no narcotics were found. There is no significant
evidence that petitioner even made a profit on any sale
to Kalchinian.4 The Government's characterization of
petitioner's hesitancy to Kalchinian's request as the natural wariness of the criminal cannot fill the eidentiary
void
The Government's additional evidence in the second
trial to show that petitioner was ready and willing to sell
narcotics should the opportunity present itself was petitioner's record of two past narcotics convictions. In 1942
petitioner was convicted of illegally selling narcotics;
in 1946 he was convicted of illegally possessing them.
However, a nine-year-old sales conviction and a fiveyear-old possession conviction are insufficient to prove
petitioner had a readiness to sell narcotics at the time
Kalchinian approached him, particularly when we must
4

At one point Kalchinian did testify that he had previously received

the same amount of narcotics at some unspecified lower price. He
characterized this other price as "not quite" the pride he paid
petitioner. R. 80.
5It is of interest to note that on the first appeal in this case the
Court of Appeals came to the same conclusion as we do as to the
evidence discussed so far. See United States v. Sherman, 200 F. 2d
880, 883.

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of-t4e Court.

356 U. S.

assume from the record he was trying to overcome the
narcoics habit at. the time.
The case at bar illustrates an evil which the defense of
entrapment is designed to overcome. The government
informer entices someone attempting to avoid narcotics
not only into carryiiig out an. illegal sale but also into
returning to the habit of use. Selecting the proper time,
the informer then tells the government agent. The setup is accepted by the agent without even a question as to
the manner in which the inforner encduntered the seller.
Thus the Government plays on the weaknesses of aii inno"cent party and beguiles him into committing crimes which
he otherwise would not have attempted. Law enforcement does not require methods such as this.
It has been suggested that in overturning this conviction we Should reassess the doctrine of entrapment according to principles announced in the -separate opinion
of Mr. Justice Roberts in Sorrells v. United States, 287
U. S. 435, 453. To do so would be to decide the case on
grounds rejected by the i-.ajority in Sorrells -and; so fax,
as the record shows, not raised here or below by the partie'
before us. We do not ordinarily decide issues not pres6nted by the parties and there is good reason not to
vary that practice in this case.
At least 'two important issues of law enforcement and
trial procedure would have to be decided without the benefit of argument by the parties, one party being the Gov.ernment. 'Mr. Justice Roberts asserted that although the
defendant could claim that the Government had induced
him to commit the crime, the Government could not reply.
by showing that the defendant's criminal conduct was du6
to his own readiness and not to the persuasion of govern6 Cf. e. g., Lutfy v. United.States, 198 F. 2d 760; Wall v." U]nited
'Statis, 65 F. 2d 993; Butts v. United States, 273 F. 35.

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

369

ment agents. The handicap thus placed on the prosecution is obvious.". Furthermore, it was the pbsition of Mr.
Justice Roberts that the factual issue of entrapmentnow limited to the question of what the government
agents did- should be decided by the judge, not the jury.
Not only was this rejected by the Court in Sorrells, but
where the .issue has been presented to them, the Courts
of Appeals have since Sorrells unanimously concluded
that unless it can be decided as a mitter of law, the issue
of whether a defendant has been entrapped is for the jury
as part of its function of determining the guilt or innocence
of the accused.'
To dispose of this-ease on the ground suggested would
entail both overruling a leading decision of this Court
and brushing aside the possibility that we would, be
7

the first appeal of this 'case Judge.)Iearned.Hand stated:
-"Indeed, it would seem probabl6 that, if there were no reply [to
the claim of inducement], it would be impossible ever to secure
convictions of any offences which consist of transactions that are
carried on in secret." -'UnitedStates v. Sherman, 200.F. 21 880, 882.
8 For example; in the following cases the courts have, in affirming
convictions, held that the issue of entrapment had been properly
submitted to the jury. United States v. Lindenfeld, 142 F. 2d 829(C. A. 2d Cir.); United States v. Brandenburg,162 F. 2d 980 (C. A.
3d Cir.); Demos v. United States, 205 F. 2d 596 (C. A. 5th Cir.);
Nero v. Unite'1 States, 189 F. 2d 515 (C. A. 6th Cir.) ; United States
v. Cerone, 150 F. 2d 382 (C. A. 7th Cir.) Louie Hung v. United
States, 111 F. 2d 325 (C.A. 9th Cir.); Ryles v. United 3tates, 183
F. 2d.944 (C.A. 10th Cir.); Cratty v. United States, 82 U. S. App,
D. C, 236, 163 F. 2d 844. And in the following cases the courts have
reversed convictions where the issue of entrapment was either not
submitted to .the' jury or was submitted on improper instructions.
United States iv. Sherman, 200 F. 2d 880 (C.A. 2d Cir);- United
"Statesv. Sawyer, 210 F. 2d 169 (Q. A. 3d Cir.) ; Wall v. United States,
65 F. 2d 993 (C. A. 5th Cir.) ; Lutfy v.. qnited States,198 F. 2d 760
(C. A..gth Cir.); Yep v. United States, 83 F. 2d 41 (C. A. 10th Cir.).
1n

4878-&-2

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring in result.

356 U. S.

creating more problems than we would supposedly be
solving.
The judgment of the Court oLAppeals is reversed
and the case is remanded to the District Court with
instructions to dismiss the indictment.
Reversed and remanded.
MR: JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,' whom MR. JUSTIcE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, and MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN
join, concurring in the result.
Although agreeing with the Court that the undisputed
facts show entrapment as a matter of law, .Ireach this
result by a route different from the Court's.
The first case in which a federal court clearly recognized and sustained a claim of entrapmeft by government
officers as a defense to an indictment was, apparently,
Woo Wai v. United States, 223 F 412. Yet the basis of
this defense, affording guidance or its application in
particular circumstances, is as much in doubt today as it
was when the defense was first recognized over forty years
ago, although, entrapment-has been the decisive issue in
many prosecutions., The lower courts have continued
gropingly to express the feeling of outrage at conduct of
law enforcers that brought recognition of the defense in
the first instance, but without the formulated basis in
reason that it is the fir'st duty of courts to construct for
justifying and guiding emotion and instinct.
Today's opinion does not promote this jiidicial desideratum, and fails to give the doctrine of entrapmint the
solid foundation that the decisions of the lower courts
and cwitieism of learned writers have clearly shown is
needed.1 Instead 'it
accepts 'without re-examination theExcellent discussions of the problem can be found in 'likell, The
Doctrine of Entrapment in the Federal Courts, 90 U. Pa. L. Rev.
245; Donnelly, Judicial Control of Informants, Spies, Stool Pigeons,

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
369

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring in result.

theory espoused in Sorrells v. United States, 287 U. S.
435, .over strong protest by Mr. Justice Roberts, speaking for -Brandeis and Stone, JJ., as well as himself.
The fact that since the Sorrells case the lower courts
have either ignored its theory and continued to rest decision on the narrow facts of each case, or have failed after
penetrating effort to define a satisfactory generalization, see, e. g., United States v. Becker, 62 F. 2d 1007
(L. Hand, J.), is proof that the prevailing theory of the
Sorrells case ought not to be deemed the last word. In a
matter of this kind the Court should not rest on the first
attempt at an explanation for what sound instinct counsels. It should not forego re-examination to achieve
clarity of- thought, because confused and inadequate
analysis is too apt gradually to lead to a course of deci-''
sions that diverges from th6 true ends to be pursued.'
It is surely sheer fiction to suggest that a conviction
cannot be had when a defendant has been entrapped by
government officers or informers because "Congress could
not have intended that its statutes were to be enforced
by tempting inno.cent persons into violations.," In these
cases raising claims of entrapment, the only legislative
intention that can with any show of reason be extracted
from the statute is the intention to make criminal precisely the conduct in which the defendant has engaged.
That conduct includes all the elements necessary to constitute criminality. Without compulsion and "knowand Agent Provocateur8, .60 Yale L. J. 1091, 1098-1115; Note,
Entrapment by Government Officials, 28 C61. L. Rev. 1067.
2 It is of course not a rigictrule of this Court to restrict consideration of a case merely to arguments advanced by counsel. Presum tbly
certiorari was not granted in this case: simply to review the evid race
under an accepted rule of law. The sblution, when an issue of real
importance to the administration of criminal justice has not been
argued by couisel, is. not' to perpetuate a bkd rule~but to set the,
case ilown for reargument with a view°to re-examining that rule.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRi'NFURTER, J.,

concurring in result.

356 U. S.

ingly," where that is requisite, the defendant has violated
the statutory command. If he is 'to be relieved from the
usual punitive consequetices, it is on no account because
-he is innocent of the offense described. .In these circumstances, conduct is not less criminal because the result of
temptation, whether the tempter is a private "person or a
government agent or informer.
The courts refise to convict an entrapped defendant,
not because his conduLt falls outside the proscription of
the statate, but because, even if his guilt be admitted,
the methods employed on behalf of the Government to
.bring aboat tonviction cannot be countenanc6d. As Mr.
Justice Holmes said, in Olmstead v. United -States, 277
U. S. 438, 470 (diss6eting), in another connection, 'It is
desirable that criminals should be detected, and- tb that
end that all available evi&iAce should be used.^ Italso is
desirable that the Government shou1_ not its6lf foster
and pay for other crimes, when they are the means by
which the evidence is to be obtained. . . . [F] or my part
I think it a less evil that some &riminals should escape.
than that the Government should play an ignoble part."
Insofar as they are used as instrumentalities in the
administration of criminal justice, the federal courts .have
an obligation to-set their face against enforcement of the
law by lawless means or meais that violate ratioially
vindicated standards of justice, and tQ refuse to sustain
such methods by effectuating them. They do this in the
exercise of a recognized jurisdiction "to formulate' and
apply "proper standards for the enforcement of the federal criminal law in the federal courts," McNabb v.
United States, 318 U. S. 332, 341, an obligation that goes
beyond the conviction of the particular defendant before
the court. Public confidence in the fair and honorable
administration of justice, upon which -ultimately depends
the rule of law, is the transcending value at stake.

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
369

FRANxFURTER,

J., concurring in result.

The formulation of these standards does not in any
way conflict with the statute the defendant has violated,
or involve the initiation of a judicial policy disregarding
or qualifying that framed by Congress. A false choice
is put when it is said that either the defendant's conduct
does not fall within the statute or he must be convicted.
The statute is wholly directed to defining and prohibiting
the substantive offense concerned and expresses no purpose, either permissive or prohibitory, regarding the
police conduct that will be tolerated in the detection of
crime. A statute prohibiting the sale of narcotics is as
silent on the question of entrapment as it is on the admissibility, of illegally obtained evidence. It is enacted,
however, on the basis of certain presuppositions concerning the established legal order and the role of the courts
within that system in formulating standards for the
administration of criminal justice when Congress itself
has not specifically legislated to that end. Specific statutes are to be fitted into an antecedent legal system.
It might be thought that it is largely an academic question whether the court's finding a bar to conviction
derives from the statute or from a supervisory jurisdiction over the administration of criminal justice; under
either theory substantially the same considerations will
determine whether the defense of entfaprnent is sustained. But to. look to a statute for guidance in the
application of a policy not remotely within the contemplation of Congress at the time of its enactment is to
distort analysis. It is to run the risk, furthermore, that
the court will shirk the responsibility that is necessarily
in its keeping, if Congress is truly silent, to accommodate
the dangers of overzealous law enforcement and civilized
methods adequate to counter the ingenuity of modern
criminals. The reasons that actually underlie the defense
of entrapment can too easily*be lost sight of in the pursuit of a wholly fictitious congressional intent. *

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring in result.

356 U. S.

The crucial question, not easy of answer, to which the
court must direct itself is whether the police conduct
revealed in the particular case falls below standards, to
which common feelings respond, for the proper use of
governmental power. For answer it is wholly irrelevant
to ask if the "intention" to commit the crime originated
with the defendant or governmeht officers, or if the criminal conduct was the product of "the'creative activity"
of law-enforcement officials. Yet in the present case the
Court repeats and purports to apply these unrevealing
tests. Of course in every case of this kind the intention
that the particular crime be committed originates with
the police, and without their inducement th crime would
not have occurred. But it is perfectly clear from such
decisions as the 'decoy letter cases in this Court, e. g.,
Grimm v. United States, 156 U. S 604, where the police
in effect simply furnished the opportunity for the commissioh of the crime, that this is not enough to enable
the defendant to escape" conviction.
The intention referred to, therefore, must be a general
intention or predisposition to commit, whenever the
opportunity should arise, crimes of the kind solicited,
and i.n proof of such a predisposition evidence has often
been admitted to show the defendant's reputation, criminal -activities, and prior disposition. The danger of
prejudice in such a situation, particularly if the issue of
entrapment must be submitted to the jury and disposed
of by a general verdict cf guilty or innocent, is evident.
The defendant must either forego the 6laim of entrapment
or run the substential risk that, in spite of instructions,
the jury will allow a criminal record or bad reputation to
weigh in its determination of guilt of 'the specific offense
of which he stands charged. Furthermore, a test that
looks to the character and predisposition of the defendant
rather than the conduct of -the police loses sight of the
underlying reason for the defense of entrapment. No

SHERMAN v: UNITED STATES.
369

FRANKFURTER, J., concurring in result.

matter what the dfendant's past record and present
inclinations to criminality, or the depths to which he has
sunk in the estimation of society, certain police conduct
to ensnare him into further crime is not to be tolerated by-.
an advanced society. And in the present case it is clear
that the Court in fact reverses the conviction because of
the conduct of the informer Kalchinian," and not becauie
the Government has failed to draw a convincing picture
of petitioner's past criminal conduct. Permissible police
activity does not vary according to the particular defendant concerned; surely if two suspects have been solicited
at the same time in the same manner, one should not go
to jail simply because he has been convicted before and
is said to have a criminal'disposition. No more does it
vary according to the suspicions, reasonable or unreasonable, of the police concerning the defendant's activities.
Appeals to syrapathy, friendship, the possibility of exorbitant gain, and so forth, can no more be tolerated when directed against a past offender than against an ordinary
law-abiding citizen. A contrary view runs afoul of fundamental principles of equality under law, and would
espouse the notion that when dealing with, the criminal
classes anything goes. The possibility that no matter
what his past crimes and general disposition. the defendant might not have committed the particular crime unless
confronted with inordinate inducements, must not be
ignored. Past crimes do not forever outlaw the criminal-.
and open him to police practices, aimed at securing his
repeated conviction, from which the ordinary citizen is
protected.' The whole ameliorative hopes of niodern
penology and prison administration strongly counsel
against such a view.
.This does not mean that the police may not act so
as.to detect those engaged in criminal conduct and ready
and willing to commit further crimes should the occasion
&rise. Such indeed is their obligation. It does mean

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring in result.

356 U. S.

that in holding out inducements they should act in such
a manner as is likely toinduce to the commission of crime
only these persons and not others. who would normally
avoid crine and through self-struggle resist. ordinary
temptations. This test shifts attention from the record
and predisposition of the particular defendant to the conduct of the police and the likelihood, objectively considered, that it Would entrap only those ready and willing
to commit crime. It is as objective a test as the subject
matter permits, and will give guidance in regulating
police conduct that is lacking when the reasonableness of
police suspicions must be judged or the criminal disposition of the defendant retrospectively appraised. It
draws directly on the fundamental intuition that led in
the first instance. to the outlawing of "entrapment" as a
prosecutorial instrument. The power of goyernment is
abiis~d and directed to an end for which it was not constituted when employed to promote rather than detect
crime and to bring about the downfall' of those who, l6ft
to themselves, might well have obeyed -he. law. Humaan
nature is weak enough and sufficiently beset by temptations without government adding, to them and generating
.crime.
What police conduct is to be. condemned, because likely
to induce-those not otherwise"ready and willing to commit
crime, must be picked out from case to case as new situations arise involving different crimes and new methods
of detection. The Sorrells case involved persistent solicitation in the. face of. obvious reluctance, and appeals to
sentiments arofised by reminiscences of experiences as
companions in arms in the World War. Particularly
reprehensible in the present case was the use of .repeated
requests to overcome petitioner's hesitancy, coupled with
appeals to sympathy based on mutual experiences with
narcotics addiction. Evidence of the setting in which
the inducement took place is of course highly relevant in

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
369

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring in result.

judging its likely*effect, and the court should also consider the nature of the crime involved, its secrecy and
.difficulty of detection; and the manner in which the
particular criminal business is usually carried on.
- As Mr. Justice Roberts convincingly urged in the Sorrells case, such a judgment, aimed at blocking off areas
of impermissible police conduct, is appropriate for the
court and not the jury. "The protection of its own functions and the preservation of the purity of its own temple
belongs only to the court. It is the province of the court
and of the court alone to protect itself and the government from such prostitution of the criminal law. The
violation of the principles of justice by the entrapment
of the unwary into crime should be dealt with by the
court no matter by whom or at what stage of the proceedings the facts are brought to its attention." 287
U. S., at 457 (separate opinion). Equally important is
the consideration that a jury verdict, although it may
settle 'the issue of entrapment- in the particular case,
cannot give significant guidance for official conduct for
the future. Only the court, through the gradual evolution
of explicit standards in- accumulated precedents, can do
this with the degree of certainty that the wise administration of criminal justice demands.

