()F THE UN1TED STATES.

431
1825.
The Santa
Mauia.

[PRIZE.]

The

SANTA

MARIA.

The Spanish Consul. Libellant.

Upon an ippeal from a mandate to carry into effecta former decree of
the Court, nothing is before the Court but the proceedings subsequent to the mandate.
But the original proceedings are always before the Court, so far as is
necessary to determine any new points in controversy between the
parties, whict- a.re not terminated by the original decree.
After a general decree of restitution in this Court, the captors, or purchasers under them, cannot'set up in the Court below new claims
for equitable deductions, meliorations, and charges, even' if such
claims might have been allowed, had they been asserted before the
original decree.
'Nor can the claimants, or original owners, in such a case, set up a claim
for interest upon the stipulation taken, in the usual foim, fo: th? appraised value of the goods, interest not being mentioned in tile stipulation itself.
Nor can interest be decreed against the captors- personally,'by way of
damages for th4 detention and delay, no-such claim having been set
up, upon the original hearing in the Court below, or upon the original appeal to this Court.
The case of- Rose v. rimely, (5 Cranch, 313.) reviewed,- explained,
and confirmed.
Upon a mandate to the Circuit Court, to carry into effect a general
decree of restitution by this Court, where tie property has been
delivered upon a itipulation for the appraised value, and the duties
paid up'on it by the party to whom it is delivered, the amount of the
duties is to be deducted from the appraised value.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Maryland.
This cause was formerly-before the Court, and
the decision then pronounced will be found re-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

ported, ante, vol. 7. p. 490. The claim of Mr.
SBurke,
as a b1kne fidei purchaser, was then reThe Sapta
Maria. jected, upon the ground of the illegality of the
original capture, it having been made in violation
of the neutrality of the United States; and a general decree of restitution was awarded in favour
of the libellant, suing in his official character as
'the Consul of Spain, for the benefit of the original owners. A mandate issued from this'Court
to the Court below, to carry that decree into
effect. Pending the original proceedings in the
Court below, and before the appeal, the property,
upon the application of Mr, Burke, was delivered
to him, upgn a stipulation given with sureties in
the usual manner, for the payment of the appraised value, according to. the future decree of the
Court. The appraisers estimated the property
at 7,473 dollars and 43 cents, being, as they declare, "the long price, including custom-house
duties," and for this sum, the stipulation was
given. Upon the application to the Court below,
to enforce the mandate of this Court, Mr. Burke
filed- a petition, asserting that he had incurred
cost and expenses, and paid certain liens upon the
property. The specifications now insisted on,
were the following: (1) Insurance on the property from Galveztown to Baltimore, viz. 751
dollars and 25 cents. (2.) Duties paid on the
same at Baltimore, viz. 1945 dollars. and 14 cents.
A petition was also filed on behalf of Mr. Burke
and a Mr. Foibes, (who now, for the first time;
appeared in the cause,) as joint owners of the
schooner Harriet, in which the property in ques-

OF THE UNITED STATE.S. '

tion was brought from Galveztown to Baltimore,

433
1825.

praying for the allowance of freight for the voy- The Santa
age, amounting to 1,500 dollars. The libellant Maria.
also made an application for interest upon the
amount of the stipulation to be decreed in his favour, either from the time of capture, from the
d'ate of the stipulatibn, or from the decree of this
C'ourt.
The respective claims of all the parties for
these allowances were rejected by the Circuit
Court, and from the decree dismissing them an
appeal was taken to this Court.
The Attorney General, for the appellant, Feb. ioth.
Burke, stated, that .the allegation demanding restitution in the original case, was filed by the Spanish Consul against the goods,, and the appellant
claimed the cargo as having been remitted to him
in return for an outward cargo shipped to his
agent at Matagorda. It is now alleged, that he
was. part owner of the capturing vessel, and,
therefore, as a wrong doer, not entitled to the
equitable deductions he claims. He insists, that
he is a bona, jid i purchaser, without noice. of
the illegal. capture, and, therefore, entitled to be
allowed for duties and other charges. In the admiralty, the libellant and claimant are both actors.a If, therefore, it had been the wish of the
libellant to put in issue the fact of Burke'd khowledge, of, or connexion with, the illegal capture,•
he should have answered the averment which is

VnL. X.

a Jennings v Carson,4 Cranch's Rep. 23.
.55

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

contained in the claim, that he (Burke) was enStirely ignorant of, and unconnected with, that
The Santa
maria. transaction; or he should have filed an amended libel, and charged the guilt of Burke. The
libellant did neither; and thus the fact of B.'s
guilt or innocence was not in issue in that case.
It was not involved in the decision of the Court,
which turned on the facts of the illegal armament of the Patriota in the ports of the United
States, the capture of the Santa Maria by that
vessel, and the identity of the goods as part of
the cargo of the Santa Maria. These facts being
established, it was immaterial who the owners
of the capturing vessel were, or how the goods
came into the possession of Burke. Restitution
was decreed to the original owners, and it
was in the execution of this decree under the
mandate from this Court, that the proceedings
now in question took place. Upon the present
appeal, nothing is before the Court but what is
subsequent to.the mandate.0 The respondents
cannot, therefore, enter into the question dfrthe
guilt or innocence of Burke upon the evidence
in the original cause. He is now to be considered as an innocent. purchaser, and entitled as such
to all equitable deductions, meliorations, and
charges.
Besides the other claims which are now insisted
on, there was a minor claim in the Court below
for the difference between the valuation and the
actual sales, which was withdraivn upon the au1825.

a fl-,se v. Hiniely, 5 Cranch's Rep. 313.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tnority of the case of the Betsey, and other cases
cited in a note to that case.T
To the claims for duties, insurance, and freight,
it was -objected in the Circuit Court, that the
Court had no authority to consider them, because
the original decree of this Court had closed the
door against all inquiry into the subject, upon the
principle settled in Rose v. Himely. But this
was a misapplication of the principle determined
in that case. The question on the first appeal
was merely as to the proprietary interest of: the
cargo. But after the principal question in, the
cause has been finally decided, and the cause
quoad hoc perpetually disposed of, any question of
charge upoh the original fund may still be taken
up as a new question, so longas the find remains
within the power of the Court. Such is understood to be the practice, both in England and in
this country.' Considering Burke as an innocent
purchaser. of the goods, who had brought them
to the United States, where they were claimed
by the original owners, and restored to therp, because of the defect of title in those from'whom
Burke had purchased, this case cannot be distinguighed in principle from that of Rose v. Himely, in which freight, insurance, duties, and otherexpenses, were allowed, under the same circumstances.! The charges anid expenses in ihe prea 5 Rob. 295.
b The Fortuna, 4 Rob. 228. . The"Vrow Anna Catharina, 6,
Rob. 269. "The Nereide, 1 Wheat. Rep. 171. The St. Lawrence, 2 G6llis. 20.
c 4 Cranch, 281.

5 Cranc/, 316.

1825.
The Santa
Maria.

43 6

1825.
The Santa

Maria.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

sent ca*se, having been actually borne by the innocent purchaser, in bringing the goods safely
into the country, seem to enter into the value of
the articles themselves; and in withdrawing
them
from the possession of the purchaser, a reimbursement of his actual expenses is required by
natural equity, and may bie considered as a species of m itigated salvage. The claim for the
amount-of the duties rests upon higher grounds.
Wherever goods are sold by order of Court, or
consent of parties, the duties attach as upon an
ordinary importation ; and upon restitution 6f the
proceeds, the amount of the duties is to be deducted.' The party gets more than the value of
the goods, if he gets the amount of the duties;
and the purchaser pays the duties twice over to
the government as duties, and again to -the origi*
nal owner, as part- of the long price value of his
goods.
As to the claim by the other party Ior interest
upon the appraised value, so far as it is claimed
from the time of capture, the question is not before this Court, because it *as not made in the
Court below. Nor can it be allowed from the
date of the stipulation, because the stipulation is
a mere substitute for the specific goods, which
would not have carried interest. The principle
of Rose v. Himey applies to this demand, since
it is in the nature of a claim for damages for the
illegal detention and delay, which were prayed in
the original libel, but which were n6r allowed by
fl The (oncord. 9 Cranrch. 3.7.

OF THE UNITED -STATES.

the Court below, nor by this Court, upon the first
appeal. Interest might, doubtless, have been
expressly reserved in the stipulation, if the Court
below had deemed tLe party entitled to it. But
these questions are definitively closed by the original decree, and cannot arise upon the mandate
to carry that decree into effect.
Mr. D. Hoffman, contra, insisted, that the
original proceedings in the cause showed that

Burke was a participator in the illegal seizure of
this property, and, consequently, could not claim
any..equitable deductions from the full value on
account of charges incurred by him in ts lireservation. . He was a malte fidei possessor,-who
was not ehtitled to be allowed for his expenses
actually laid out upon the property, still less for
the fictitious charges of freight, insurance, and
duties. *As to the duties, they have been incurred solely by his electing to import the goods for
consumption.' Had they been delivered to the
original owners, and carried away by them, or
had they never been brotght in, they wouldnot
have been subject to duties.. Therewas a maiifest inconsistency in the opposite argument, which
would not admit the stipulation to carry interest,
whilst it sought to diminish the principal sum specified in the stipulation, by claims which might
have been made upon the original hearing. But
there is no principle, authority, or established
practice, which requires, that where the goods
have been delivered'on bail, the Court should,
cotemporaneously, decree restitution of the spe-

1825.
The Santa

Maiia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
The Santa
Maria..

cific thing, and the performance -pf the stipulation. The Court may decree Testitution generelly, and in executing the decree it is to be applied to the stipulation, so as to include not only
what is substantially comprehended in the decree,
but every equitable demand consistent with it,
although not expressly included in its terms.
The allowance of interest by the Court below,
after the original decree in this Court, does not
so much depend upon the circumstance of its
being expressly reserved upon the face of the
stipulation, as upon the notorious fact, that the
Court would be subsequently called on to act definitively upon the stipulation, when it came to
execute the final decree of this Court. In thus
executing it, by allowing ihiterest, the Court below
would not modify. or add to the original decree
of this Court, since this allowance opens nothing
which had been adjudicated by this Court' and
is to be regarded as nothing more-than an incident to the execution of the decree of restitution. That restitution would have been incomplete without it, as, if the property had not been
delivered to the capturing claimant upon bail, it
might have been delivered in the same manner
to the original own.er, or sold by order of Court,
and the proceeds invested in stocks bearing an
interest.
'As to the case of Rose v. l-imely, it will be
found that the Court there assumes, that the
question of interest was before it on the origina
appeal, and asserts, that if the claim had thei
been made, it would have been rejected, because

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the Court did not consider the appellants as infected by the marine trespass committed by the
.
captors. " The circumstances of the case were
such as to restrain the Court from inserting in
its decree any thing which might increase its severity. The loss was heavy, and it fell unavoidably on one of two innocent parties. The Court
was not inclined to add to its weight by giving

interest in the nature of damages.. The alluwance of inte'est, therefore, in the Court below,
is overruled. " °a Besides, in that case, the Court
had all the questions of equitable deductions and
allowances before them on the original appeal,
and gave a very special decree and mandate,
which, ex industria,omitted ifiterest. But here
the question is not between two equally innocent
parties. Here none of the questions of freight,
insurance, duties, and in'terest, were raised in the
original cause. They were all reserved as incidental to the stipulation,. which was not then
brought before, this Court.
The doctrine laid down in Rose v. Himely,
that after a decree in this' Court, and the cause
sent by mandate to the Court below, and the further proceedings upon the mandate are appealed
from, nothing is before this Court on the appeal
but what is subsequent to the mandate, is unquestionably a sound and salutary rule. But is it any
thing more than what the general principles of
law would establish ? Is it any thing more than
an application of the familiar maxim as to res
a 5 Cranch's Rep,. 317.

439
1825.
""Santa
The
Maria.

440

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

adjudicata? "Nothing is before this Court,"
"lieRanta- says the Chief Justice, " but what is subsequent
This is unquestionably true,
Maria: tq the mandate."
but with this indispensable qualification, that the
matter in question prior to the mandate was, or
ought necessarily to have been, before the Court
originally. The rule w.as applied. to tjie claims
of freight and insurance which the original decree of this Court had expressly allowed, but
which the commissioner appointed by the Circuit
Court under the mandate had disallowed. But
no case can be found which -requires the Court
below to pass any decree, in the first instance,
upon the stipulation, or to allow interest before
the appeal, or which requires the question of interest, or any similar incidental claim, to be
brought before this Court upon the original appeal. The rule in regard to matters prior, or
subsequent to the mandate, appears to be understood precisely in this manner by the learned
Judge who delivered.the opinion of the Court in
Martin v. Hnter. " A final judgment of this
Court is coiclusive upon the rights which it decides, and no statute has provided any process)
this Court can revise its own judgby which
ments. "
. The claim for interest is an incident to the
execution of the.mandate for restituti6n. Interest
is impliedly due, wherever a liquidated sum of
money is wrongfully withheld. "If a man has
my money by way of loan, he ought to answer.
interest ; but if he detains my mohey wrongfully,
1825.

a 1 Ws qt. . ep. 304. 354.

OF THIE UNITEIY STATES.

441

he ought, afortiori,to answer interest; and it is 1825.
still stronger, when one by wrong takes from me The Santa
my money or goods, which I am trading with, in Maria.
order to turn them into money.'2 Were not this
the case, a strong temptation. would be presented
to debtors to violate their duty. In the language
(if Lord Mansfield, " they would be enc6uraged
to make use of-all the unjus.t dilatoriness.of chicane, and the more the plaintiff is iij-ured, the
less'he will be' relieved." This is. emphatically
to the present case, where the capturapplicable
ing claimant has superadded to the original
wrong done to the owners of' these goods, all the
unjust dilatoriness of chlcarie.
Mr. Justice STORY delive red the opinion of the Fe.26th.
Court, and, after stating the case, -proceeded as
follows:
Several preliminary questions have been argued, which must be disposed-of before the
Court can entertain-any question upon the merits of these claims ; and if disposed of one way,
they put an end to the controversy.
In the first place, it is asserted, that Mr
Burke is a malwfidei claimant, entitl'ed to no favour whathver; and by reference to the original
Rep.
a 1 ,P. Urms. 396. See also 1 Binn. Rep. 494. 9 Johns.
71. 11 Mass.Rep. 504. i'N. Hamp.Rep. 180.
2
b The Diana, 3 IFteal. Rep. 58. 3 Dall Rep. 333.336.
7
205.
Rep.
Wils.
3
305.
Bl.
H.
Burr. Rep. 1098. See also 1
Johns.
1
27.
Gas.
Johns.
1
219.
Pull.
,k
Term Rep. 124. 2 Bos.
Rep. 343. 4 iass. Rep. 17l.
Vol.. X.

CASES IN THE SUPRE IE COURT

1825. proceedings, will be found a party to the wrongThe 'Santa ful capture and detention of the property.
And
Maria. the first question, therefore, that arises, is, wheThe rule, thatther upon this appeal the Court can look into

,upon
ap-those proceedings for the purpose of ascertain,
peal from a
maniate,
o- ing.the gqilt or innocence of the claimant ? The
thing is before"
-

principle laid down in the case of Rose v. Hime-

the Court but
the

ings

proceed-

subse-

quent to

plaind.

ly, (5 Cranch, 313.) that upon an appeal from a
mandate, nothing is before the Court but the proceedings subsequent to ihe mandate, is undoubt-

the'

mandate, ex-

edly cbrrect in the sense in which that expres,
sion was used, with referen'ee to the doetrine of
that case. Whatever bad been formerly before
the Court, and was disposed o by its decree, was
considered as finally disposed of'; and the question of interest raised upon the execution of the
nmandate in that case, was in that predicament.
But upon all.proceedings to.carry into effect the
decree of the Court, the original proceedings are
always before the Court, so far as they are necessary to determine any new points or rights in
controversy between the parties, which were not
terminated by the original decree. The Court
may, tharefore, inspect the original proceedings,
to ascertain the merits or'demerits of the parties,
-so fir As- they bear on the new claims, dind must
decide upoxi the whole examination what its duty
requires. In the present case, it is impossible to
separate the stipulation from the other proceedings. It is unintelligible without reference to
them. The Court must inspect them, to guide it
in its future acts, and to. enable it to carry into
,'ffect the decree of the Supreme Court. That

OF THE UNITED STATES.

443

decree restores the property generally as claim- 1825.
Santa
ed by the libellant; but what that property is, in The
what predicament it is, and what are the means Maria.
by which it is to be restored, must be asbertained,
before the Court can institute any farther proceedings.
a gcAnother preliminary question is, whetler the After decre
prliinynral
Court,
restitution
subject matter of these claims.is, in this stage offin this
and
fur
charges
claims
netv
S
the cause, open for discussion. All the claims
up b.,
be set ca,,n.
of Mr. Burke might certainly have been broughtiliens
Court beforward and' insisted upon in the original pro- the
'
°
ceedings. If his right to the property was notl
established, still he might be entitled to equita'ble deductions for meliorations or charges; and
if these claims were favoured by the Court, the
decree of restitution would have been subject to
these deductions. They vould then have constituted a lien upon the property, and the Ci'rcuit
Court 'Must have enforced it. But no such
claims were insisted uipon .in the-written allegations, or even viva voce at the hearing; 'the
omission was voluntary, and the dec'eo of
restitution passed in the most absolute and
The consequences of
unconditional form.
now admitting them to be brought before this
Court by appeal, would be most inconv4nient and
mischievous in practice. It would encourage the
grossest laches and delays. The party might..lie
by through the whole progress of t.bi origipal
cause, until a final decree, holding ihe real owner
out of his property, and securely enjoyi'ng, as in
this case, the profits, and then start new claims
for future investigation, w-hich would protract the
final decision to .an indefinite period. Such a

444

1825.
"'-ta
The
Santa
Maria.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

course would have atendeucy justly to bring into
disrepute the administration of justice, and inflict upon the innocent all the evils of expensive
litigation. W6 think, therefore, that upon principle, every existing claim which the party has
omitted to make at the hearing upon the merits,
and before the final decree, is -to be- considered
as waived by him, and is not to be entertained in
any future proceedings; and when a decree has
been. made, which is in its own terms absolute,
it is to be carried into effect according to those
terms, and excludes all inquiry between the litigating parties as to liens or claims, which might
have been attached to it by the Court, if they had
been previously brought to its notice. These remarks apply as well to the claim for freight, a§
the other items. Mr. Burke, as the importer of
the goods, would, if the cafrier ship had belonged to a mere stranger, have been directly respohsible for the.freight, and would have been enti-:
tled to bring it forward ir the original suit as an
equitable charge. It can make no difference in
his favour, that he was, as he now asserts himself
in his petitioAi to be, a joint owner of the vessel
with Mr. Forbes. Whether, as between- himself
an4 his co-proprietor, he would be liable to pay
any freight, does not'appear, for the petition is
naked of any -proofs, and he may baxie occupied
only his own portion of the vessel. Nor is there
any evidence adduced, iliat Mr. Forbes was really a joint owner ; and in his original claim, Mr.,
Burke expiessly asserts the vessel to be his own.
in terni. which imply a sole proprietary intorest.

OF TIHE UNITED- STATES.

But without relying on these circumstances, it is 1825.
sufficient to say, that it is too late for Mr. Burke The Santa
in any way to assert the claim for freight, and if Maria.
payable at afl, he must now bear the burthen occasioned by his own laches.
wholly unThis view of the siVject, makes it.
far M-r.
how
inquiry,
the
necessary to enter'upon
Burke is an innocent possessor of the *property
in 'controversy,,an d, as such, entitled to equitable
deduc.tions and charges. The claim, whether a
lien, or a.mere equity, has been totally displaced
by the tinconditional decree of restitution,
The same' doctrine applies to the claim of in- ,1tz.restUPI,,
aIoed.
,,;t
terest'made by the libellant. The question 'was Nor,
in perragaisthe
involved in the original 'proceedings, and the libel ...
party,
tilt,.

itself contains aii express prayer. for damages, cii.-, iit.
e.i,ilserted
as well as for restitution of the prbperty. Da-b
the ariI before
d.he
mages are'often given by way of interest for tne gi,,al
t
ada
and..,
property;
of
detention
illegal seizure and
indeed,'in'cases of tort, if given at all, interest
partakes of the very nature offdamages, The
ground now agsumed is, that interest ought to be
given since the date of the stipulation, or, ai all
events, since the decree of restitution; because
the claimant has had the use of the 'property
during this period, and it is but a just compensation to thelibellant for the delay and loss he has
sustained by the dispossession. It might have
been just and proper for the 'Court below to have
iefused the deli.v.ery of the property upon st.ipulItion, unless upon the express conditioii, that
the sam'e should carry interest, if so decreed by
Ihc Court. And, in.cascs of this nature, it 1l,-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. pears to us highly proper that such a clause
should be inserted in the stipulation. But the
V
The-Santa
Maria, present stipulation contains no such clause, and,
therefore, so far as respects the principal and
sureties, to decree it'upon that, would be to include a liability not justified by its terms. ' It is
true, that interest might be decreed against Mr.
Burke personally, rot as the stipulator, but as
the claimant in the cause; but then it would be
by way of damages for the detention or doelay.
In this view, it was a matter, open for discussion
upon the original appeal; and no interest having
been then asked for or granted, the claim is finally'
at rest. What was matter formerly before
the Court cannot again-be drawn into controversy.
these questions thus far
We have considered eh,
Rose, v. Hime-

(pnla
ly5
313.)
corntir-upon principle.

But they have been.alroady de-

cided by this Court. The case of Rose v. iiin y,
(5 Cranch's Rep. M3.) is directly irq point. The
authority of that ease has not been in the slightest degree impugned, and, without overthrowing
it, this Court could not now entertain the present
claims. We are not disposed to doubt the entire
correctness of that adjudication.
he t The question in regard to the duties, admits
D..iies to
from
deducted
ed.

the

appraisdof

value.

a very different consideratibn.

The decree

of restitution awards to the libellant the whole

property in controversy, and nothing more. Upon.
the face of the proceedings it appears, that the
stipulation was taken for the appraised value of
the property, including the duties paid to the
Uhited States by the claimant. The amount of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

447'

those duties never constituted any part of the 1825.
property of the libellant, or those for whom he The Santa
acts. Neither lie nor they have ever incurred the Maria.
charge, or made the advance. And if it is now
given to the libellaht, it is a sum beyond the value
of the property, which has been paid upon the
importation without his aid, and without any injury to him or his principal. It is true, that in
the hands of the claimant-.the property may be
assumed to be Worth the whole apprais'ed value;
but thatvalue includes not only-the value of the
property per se, but the amount of the duties already paid by-the claimant. In receiving it, the
claimant has received no more of the libellant's
property than tlhe sum, deducting the duties already paid. It has been said, that the property
wag wrongfully brought to the United States by
the claimant, and, therefore, he is not entitled to
favour. This might be a satisfactory answer
to any attempt of the claimant to charge the libellarit with the duties as an equitable charge.
But no such claim has been asserted; and if
the Court were now to decree to the libellant the
whole sum in the stiptilation, the decree in effect
would require the claimant to pay the duties to
the libellant, as well as to the government. The
original decree purports no such thing. It is
confined to simple restitution of the property;
and the proceeds substituted for that, are the
net sum, deducting the duties, the market price,
or appraised value, being compounded of the original value and the duties. These observations
are confined to a case. where the errot in the

CASES IN THE SUPREMI J

COURT-

1825. stipulation is apparent. upon the face of the pro,'-:",.- ceedings; and it would be dangerous, as well as
'Maria.
improper, to entertain the question, where the
evidence must be sought from extrinsic sources..
Upon the whole, the .decree of the Circuit
Court is affirmed .as to all things, except the disallowance of the cij)in for the deduction of
duties, and as to that, it is reversed ; and it is
ordered that the libellant have restitution of the
net appraised value, dedticting, the duties;, and
that as to go much thereof as has not been alred-.
dj paid to him; interest -be allowed to him at, the
rate of six per cent. per annum, from the time of
the -allowance of the present appeal, unto the
final execution of this decree, and that the stipulation stand security, therefor.
DECREE.

This cause-came on. &.c.- on consi-

deration whereof, it is

ORDERED, ADJUDGED

and

that the decree of th.e Circuit Court in
the premises be and hereby is affirmed, except il
disallowing the item stated in the petition of the
claimants, paid for duties, and except so far as is
otherwise directed by this decree ; and- -this
Court; proceeding to pass such decree as the Circuit Court ought to have given, do hereby further
ORDER, ADJUDGE and DECREE, that the said items of
duties, amounting to the sum of nineteen hundred. and forty-five dollars and fourteen cents,
be deucted from the appraised value of the pro-%
perty, as ascertained in the stipulation; andthat
the libellant have restitution of the residue-of the
appraised" value; and that upon- o much of the
DECREED,

449

OF THE UNITED STATES.

said residue as has not already been paid to the 1825.
libellant, interest at the rate of six per centum
Day
per annum be allowed to the libellant, from the- v..
time of the present appeal until this present de- Ciisni.
cree shall be executed upon mandate by the Circuit Court, together with all the costs of suit on
the present as on the original appeal; and that
the said stip.ulation do stand as security therefor ;
4nd that the Circuit Court do award execution.
upon the said stipulation, for the amQunt of principal and interest so ordered, adjudged and decreed..

[COVENAZTr.

IDNY

PLEADiNGi-

and others v. CiHshr.

In a declaration upor) a covenant of warranty, it is necessary tu
allege substantially an-eviction by title paramount I but io fornia!
term's are prescribed in which the averment is to be made.
Where it was averred in such a declaration, " that the said 0. had
not a gp6d and sufficient title to the said tract of la.ad, and by reason thereof the said plaintiffs were ousted and dispossessed of the
said premises by due course of law," it was held sufficient as a substantiai averment of an eviction by title paramount.,
Where the plaintiffs declared.in covenant both as heirs and devisees,
without showing in particular how they were heir.;, and without
setting out the will, it was beld not to be fatal on general demurrer.
Such a defect may be amended under the 39-1 section of the JudiciarY
Act of 1789, c.20.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of
VO. X.

57

T

enne.:..

