OF

Ht UNITED STEI'ES.

for its object to determine whether a in ritime
trespass has been committed, and then to apply
the remedy.

1825.
The Gran
Para.

Judgmen t reveised, and the cause remanded
for further proceedings.

LPRACTIcE.]

The Consul General oC
PORTUGAL, Libellant.

The GRAN PARA..

Where the Court of Admiralty has parted with the possession of tile
property, upon bail or stipulation, and it'is necessary, for the purposes of justicl, to retake.the property into the custody of the
Court, the proper process against any person not ea party to the
skipulation, but-wNho is alleged to have the actual or constructivi
possession, is a mdnition,*and not an execution, in the first instbnce.

THIS is the same case. which iyas reported
ante, vol. VII. p. 471. and was an:appeal from
prooeedingshad in the Court below, under the.
mandate of this Court in the original cauise.

The cause was argued by Mr. D. Hoffman, .F'eb.e4t7,.
for the appellant, dad by the Aftatney General
and: Mr. Taney, .for the respondo'nt. Bu.t as .the
present determinvtionof the Courit was confined'
to the single point of'practice; without affectfitg
the other question.s 'involved in the cause, it has
Vor..X.

63

CASES IN THE St PREME COURT

1825. not been thought necessary to report the argu-.-- inents of counsel.

The Gran
Para.

Justice STORY delivered the opinion of
Court.
theMr.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court for
the District of Maryland, from proceedings had
in that Court under the mandate of this Court in
the original cause, which is reported in 7- Wheat.
.Rep. 471.
The material facts are these: The original
libel was against sundry quantities of gold and
-ilver coin, and bullion, deposited by Daniels in
the Marine Bank of Baltimore. A claim was
interposed by one Nicholas Stansbury, asserting
himself to be " agent and attorney, in fact," ot
Daniels, on behalf" of the latter, and claiming
restitution of the property as lawfully captured
in war by Daniels. Pending the proceedings in
the Court below, Stansbury made application for
the delivery of the property- upon stipulation,
and thereupon the Court ordered, that J. D. Da.nids be permitted to draw for, and the President
and Directors'of the Marine- Bank be suffered to
pay to Daniels, the money in controversy; provided, that Daniels should entbr into a stipulation in 23,000 dollars, with such surety.or sureties as -might be approved of by the libellant's
proctors; to abide such further order or decree,
either interlocutory or flnalas might be made by
the Court in the piemises. The libellantfs proctors appr6ved of Stansbury, and one Thomas
Sheppard. and one Henry Didier. jun. as sure

OF THE UNITED STATES.

499

Lies, and they, accordingly, gaxe a stipulation fbr 1825.
the amount " for J. D. Daniels, claimant." But SThpe"Gran
Daniels himself was not a party to the stipula- Patran
tion. By a subsequent order of the Court, tha
money was delivered by the Marine Bank to
Stansbury, who signed a receipt for the same as
attorney for Daniels, upon a certificate of the
deposit originally given by the Cashier of the.
Bank to Dan~iels, and by him delivered over to
Stansbury."
A decree of restitution having passed in the
Supreme Cou'rt, after the mandate was brought
into the Circuit Court, the libellant prayed that
execution might issue adaiiist Daniels to- enforce
the performance of the decree, and. that a monition, or other proper process, might issue against
the sureties.to the stipulation. To this course
the-proctor for. the claimant objected, and the
Court finally ordered admiralty process to issue
again. t the stipulators,, but-refused .to make any
further order under the motion of the libellant.
The case is noW4 bef6re us 'by appeal from that
decision.
Several points have .been urged in tle argument, upon which, in the .present stage of the
cause, it is not thought necessary to express any
opinion. Assuming Daniels to be a party to the
cause, in virtue of the claim made in his behalf by
Stansbury, it still remains to show, that the process of execution is, in the first instance, .to be
issued against'him.. He is not a party to the
stipulation, and so -far as any remedy is'to be
sought upon tbat, it lies exclusively" esainst the

500
1825.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

sureties, since he, as principal, has not, person-

The Gran
a

ally, or through the instrumentality of any agent,

Para.

become bound by it. The remedy against him
for the property, or its proceeds, must be sought
solely upon the ground, that he has the actual or
constructive possession of them in virtue of the
delivery to his agent under the order of the Court
below. If the property had remained in the
custody of the Court,. there is no pretence to
say, that -he would be liable for the restitution.
It is- the delivery to him, or to his authorized
agent, which can alone give rise to any liability
on his part, whether he be a party to the suit, or
only a custodee of the property or its proceeds.
In such cases, the usual proceeding in the admiralty is, not to award execution against the
party, for that would preclude him from showing,
in his defence, that he never had any actual or
constructive possession, or that be was discharged from all liability. The- proper course is,
to issue a monition to Daniels in the usual manner, upon the return of which he may appear
and justify himself, and interpose such allegations on the Werits as may bring all the matters
fully before the Court for judgment. This is
the constant practice of the admiralty; and the
subsequent proceedings are to be accoiding to
the common usage, upon whith it is unnecessary
to comment.
It is, therefore, the opinion of this Court, that
the Circuit Court was right in refusing to grant
an execution against Daniels, under the cireumstances. and that its decretal order bught to be

OF THE UNITED STATES.

affirmed; but inasmuch as it appears, that the

1825.

principal question between the parties has been,

whether any process whatgoever could be awarded against Daniels, it is directed that the affirmation of the order be without prejudice
to the award of a monition against Daniels in
the common form of the admiralty.
This cause came on, &c. on colisideration whereof, it is ORDERED, ADJUDGED
and DECREED, that the .decree of the Circuit
Court, refusing to issue an execution against
John D. Daniels, as prayed for by the libellant
in -his petition, be, and the same hereby is,
affirmed, with costs; without prejudice to the
libellant, to apply to the said Circuit Court for
a monition against the said John D. Daniels, in
the premises, accor.ding to the u4age of the admiralty, that.being a process to which the libelTarit is entitled by law.
-DECREE.

ira.

