CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

306
1825.
The Dos
Hermanos.

[PRIzE. NoN-CoaMIssloNED CAPTOR.]

The Dos HERMANOS.

SHIELDS,

Claimant

Seizures made, jure belli, by nion-ocommissioned captors, are made
for the government, and no title of prize can be derived but from
the Prize Acts.
A non-commissioned captor can only proceed in the Prize Court as
for salvage, the amount of which is discretionary.
The appellate Court will notinterfere in the exercise of this discretion, as to the amount of salvage allowed, unless in a very.clear
case of mistake.
An appeal, under the Judiciary Acts of 1789, c. 20. s. £2. and of
1803, c. 353. [xciii.] prayed for, zind allowed within five years) is
valid, although the security was not given uhtil after the lapse of

five years.
The mode of taking the security, and the .*me for perfecting it, are
within the discretion of the Court below, and thig Court will 'not
interfeie with the exercise of that discretion.

APPEAL from the District Court of Louisiana.
This was the same case, reported ante, vol. II.
p. 76. where the decree of the Court below, condemning the cargo as enemy's property, was
affirmed by this Court, reserving the question as
to the distribution of the prize proceeds. The
original capture was made by Mr. Shields, a Purser of the navy, in the year 1814, in a barge
armed and fitted out to cruise, but not regularly
attached to the navy. The caue was remanded
to the Court below for further proceedings, and
that Court decreed the proceeds to be equally distributed between the United States and the cap-

I- J07

OF THE UNITED STATES.

expenses.
tor, without deducting the captor's
appealed to this
From this decree the captor
Court.

1825.
T
Hermanos

Mlarch 5th.
Mr. C. J. Ingersoll, for the appellants, stated,
that it had been generally considered by the text
writers, and Courts 'of Prize, that the right
to captures, jure belli, wag in the government, and
that no individual could derive any rights of prize
but from the express grant of the government.a
But, on principle, every individual is in a state of
war with the enemies of his country; and the
common law certhinly considers the law of nations as authorizing any subject of the belligerant state to seize enemy's- property within
the realm, or the property -of -other subjects
previously captured by the enemy, to 'the exelusion of the king, the admiral, and the owner,
unless the latter- came the same day they weie
To
1
takefi, and claimed them ante occasum solis.
the same effect is the case in the book of the 7th
Edw. IV. 14.
The principle is,. that pprsonal effects, seized
in war, are acquired to the taker by occupancy;
to
and.immoveables, such as. cities, lands, &c.
the public.c But the crown, always rapacious,
suband seeking to extend its final prerogative,
title
sequently introduced the doctrine of public
stath
Thus
to personal things taken in war.
a 2 Wheat. Rep: Appx. Note 1. p. 71.
b s Reebes' Hi8t. Eng. Law, S71, 372.
c Woo'. rnst. Imnp. Law, 154. b. 2. c. S.

3010

1825.
The Dos
Hermanos.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tute 34 Edw. III. c. 1. declares, that the crown
was always seized of the forfeitures of war; and
hence came the doctrine of the droits of admiralty. It does not appear that this assumption
has ever been expressly recognised by this Court
as a part of the law of this country; and, unquestionably, a non-.ommissioned captor may seize

enemy's property,' and after a condemnation, as
inthis case, it must be adjudged to the captors.
It is now too late for the government to interpose its claim.. The act of the 23d April, 1800,
c.-189. [.xxxiii.] s. 5. and the. Prize Act of 1812,
c. 430. [cvii.] gives the proceeds of vessels and
goods, adju.dged good pri~e, to the captors. But
at all events, the captors are entitled to be repaid
their expenses, and to a liberal salvage.The Attorney General, contra, argued, that it
was established as an elementary principle in
the law of prize, that all captures jure belli, enured to the public, and that the actual captors could
only derive their title from the grant of the government. this was the case with commissioned captors, and still more emphatically as to
non-commissioned captors; who, though they
had a right to seize enemy's property, could
claim no title to the proceeds upon adjudication,
except. what was derived from the bounty of the
public.' Whatever might have been the ancient
a 1 Rufh. 302. 2 Reeves' Hist. Eng. Law, 4M4.
b 2 Wiheat. Rep. Appx. Note I. p. 7.
c The San Bernardo, 1 Rob. 178. The Haase, Id. 24.
r72 Wheat. Rep. A ppx. Note I. p. 7. 71.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

309

common law doctrine in England, it had been .1825,
long since settled in that country, that
y all rights. The Dos
of prize were derived from the grant of the crown. Hermanos.
Without entering into all the distinctions as to
the capacity in. which the crown took, whether in
the king's office of Admiral, or jure corond, it
might be laid down as a general proposition,'that
non-commissioned captors, ah a matter of stict
right, were not entitled to any shaie of the
prizes captured by them. Captures made by
tenders -or boats, sent .out by officers of the navy,
but not r~gularly attached by public authority, to
the navy, are condemned as droits of admiralty.a
But in these, and all other cases of seizures by
non-commissioned captors, it was usual to reward the takers with a liberal share of the property, in the discretion of the, Court of Admiralty.'
There w.as no reason why-any different principle
or mode of proceeding should be adopted in this
country. It does not depend upon any peculiar
municipal regulations, but grows out of a principle recognised by all the*writers on public law:
Bello parta cedunt reipublicw.c In the present
case, a moiety of the proceeds had been allowed
to the actual captors as salvage; but the provisions in the Prize Acts fot the distribution of
prizes, were confined to commissioned public
and private armed vessels.
a The. Melomasne, 5-Rob. 4 . The Charlotte, Id. 280. and
note.

b The.Saft Bernardo, I Rob. 178.. "TheHaase Id. 286. The
Amor Parentum, Id. 303.
c The Elsebe, 5 Rob. 173. 181

310

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opiThe Dos nion of the Court, that whatever might.have-been
Hermanes. the ancient doctrine in England in respect to
Mach

h.

captures in war, it is now clearly established in
that kingdom, that all captures jure belli, are
made for the government, and that ho tile of
prize can be acquired but by the public acts of
the government conferring rights on the captors.
If the original law of England authorized an individual to acquire to his own use the property
of an individuaj, without any express authority
from the public, that law was changed long before the settlement of this country. It never
was the law of this country. Before the revolution, all captures, from the enemy accrued to the
government, to be distributod according to law ;
and th revolution could not strip the government
of this exclusive prerogati-ve, and vest it in idi.viduals. It is, then, the settled law of the United States, that all captures made by non-commissioned capt.ors, are made for the government;
and since the provisions in the Prize Acts, as to
the distribution of prize proceeds, are confined
to public and private armed vessels, cruising
under a regular commission, the only claim which
can be sustained by the captors in cases like the
present, must be in the nature of salvage for
bringing in and preservingth& property.
. In the present case, the District Court-have
awarded one half of the prize .proceeds, or salVage, to the captors. It was an exercise of sound
discretio n; and this Court would, with extreme
reluctance, interfere with that discretion. unless

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in a very clear ca.-e of mistake. We perceive 1825.
no such mistake ja this case, and are well satisfled with the amount of the 'alvag' as decreed Hermaos.
by the District Court.
As to the question which has been made, whether the appeal was in due time, it appears, that
the appeal was prayed for within five years, dfnd
was actually allowed by the Court within that
period.. It is true that the security required by
law was not given until after the lapse of the five
years ; and, under such circumstances, the Court
might have disallowed the appeal, and -refused
th security. But, as the Court accepted it, it
must be considered as a sufficient compliice vith
the order of the,.Court, and that ifhad relation
back to the time of the allowance of the appeal.
The-mode of taking the security, and the time
for perfecting it, are matters of discretion, to be
regulated-by the Court granting the appeal; and
when its order is complied with, the whole has
relation-back to the time when the appeal was
prayed. We must presume.the. security was
given, in this case, according to the rule prescribed by the District Court, and the appeal
was, therefore. in time.

Decree affirmed, with costs.

