REPORTS
OF

THE DECISIONS
ki TIE'

SUPREME'COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
FEBRUARY TERM, 1825.

[CoNsTvTu~ioNL. LAw;

PaiCTICZ.]

WAYmAx and another v. SOUTA.4RD and ahother.
Congress has, by the constitution, exclusive autherity to regulate the
proceedings in the Courts of the United States; and the'States.have
no authority4o control those proceedings, except so far is the State
process acts are adopted by Congress, or by the Courts of the United States under the authority of. Congress.
The proceedings on executions, and other process, in the Courts of the
-United States, in suits at common law, are to be theam in each
State, respectively, as were used in the Supreme Court of the State
in Septembei, 1789, subject to such alterations and additions as the:
said Co4Mrts of the United States m.ay majke, or as the Supreme
Court of the United States shall prescribe by rule to the other
Courts.
A Siate law regulating executions, enacted subsequent to Seplember,
1789, is not applicable to executions issuing on judgments rendered
by the Courts of the United States, unless expressly" adopted* by
the regulations and rules of those Courts.
The 84th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. £0. which provides,
"that the jawi of the several States, except," &c. " shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law, in the Courts of the
United States, in cases where they apply," does not apply to the
process and.practice of the Cors. It is a mere legislative recog.

Vo. X.

CASES IN THE .SUPREME COURT
1825.
%tion
Wayman
V.
Southard.

nition of the principles or universal jurisprudence, as to the operaof the lex loci.
The statutes of Kentucky concerning executions, which require the
plaintiff to endorse on the execution that bank notes of the Bank
of Kentucky, or notes of the.Bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky will be received in payment, and, on his-refusal, authorize the
defendant to give a repIfi'in bond for the debt, payable in two years,
are not applicable to executions issuing on judgments rendered by
the Courts of the United States.
The case of Palmer v..AWl n, (7 Cranch,550.) reviewed and reconciled
with the present decision.

THIs cause was certified from the Circuit Court
for the District of Kentucky, upon a certificate of
a division of opinion between the Judges of that
Court, on several motions; which occurred on a
motion made by the plaintiffs to quash the Marshal's return on an execution issued on a. judgment obtained in that Court, and also to quash
the replevin.bond taken on the said execution, for
the following causes:
1. Because the Marshal, in taking the replevin
bond, and making said ieturn, has proceeded
under the statutes of Kentucky, inrelhtion to executions; which statutes are not applicable to erecutions issuing on judgments in this Court, -but
the M arishal is -to proceed with such executions
according to the rules of the common law, as
modified by acts of Congress, and the rules of
this Court, and of the Supreme Court of the
United States.
2. That if the statutes of Kentucky, in relation
to executions, are binding on this Court, viz. the
statute Which requires the'plWditiff to endorse on
the execution, that bank -notes of the Bank of
Kentucky, or notes of the Bank of the Common-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

wealth of Kentucky, will be received in payment, 1825.
0
or that the defendant may replevy the debt for Wayniau
'two years, are in violation of the constitution .of
T.
the United States, and of the State of Kentucky,

'.

and void.
3. -That all the statutes of Kentucky- which
authorize a defendant to give. a replevin bond in
satisfaction of a judgment or execution, are unconstitutional and void.
4. Bepcause there is no law obligatory 'onthe.
said Marshal, which authorized or justified him in
taking the said replevin bond, or in making the
said return on the said execution.
The Court belpw being ,divided in opinion
on the points stated in the. motion, at the. request of the plaintiffs, the dame were ordered to
be certified to this Court.
The cause was argued by Mr. Chevei, and Mr. arA,..
Sergeant,for the plaintiffs and by Mr. Bbb, and 18%
Mr. Monroe;for the'defendants, at the last term,
On the part of the plaintiffs it was insisti.d, that
the executions issued by the Courts of the UnitedStates for the District of ]Kentucky, are tor beregulated and governed by the laws of the Uflited:
States, and not by the laws of the State of Kentucky.
It was not necessary to analyse the particular
provisions of the State laws, because the ques-"
tions that would arise were of a-general nature,
and rendered any such statement "unnecessary.
These questions were,
1 Whether, by the eongtitution-of the United

CASES IN THE. SUPREME COURi

1825. States, Congress has the power to regulate the
'~
-proceedingsof the Federal Courts?
w.
2. Whether Congress has regulated'those pror
ceedings, and in what manner ?
1' That Congress has the power, was too plain
to admit of a doubt. If they have not, they have
no power at 5ll, and the whole of that interesting
portion of.the constitution is inoperative. The
clause in question is the third article of the constitlition, which establishe§ and regulates
the judicial power. It is a simple text, but it is a very
comprehensive one, or it is nothing. It does
nothing more, in terms; than authorize Congress
to establish Courts, and declare the cases over
which they shall have jurisdidtion. The grounds
of decision- are, of course, comprehended. They
are to be-according t6 the law of the-case. Themeans for arriving at the decision, or for giving
it effect, are not expressly provided. But as. the
-means are indispensable to the attainment of the
end, which is the administration of justice, they
are necessarily included. in the grant; and the
power to provide them is, of course, implied in
the power to establish judicial tribunals. A
Court is a place where justice is judicially administered.a To say. merely that Courts should be
established,, would be eiltirely idle. To say,
therefor'e, that Courts shall be established, means
that all the needful and usual incidents to Courts
shali-be established.
This proposition was -so bomp etly self-evia Co. Lftt.50.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

dent as not to admit of any support from argu. 1825.
ment or illustration, nor to require any aid from. Waymin
the clause in the first article, giving Congress
V.a,
power to make all laws necessary and proper for Southaud.
carrying into execution the other power expressly
granted, or vested in the government of the.United States, or in any department or officer thereof.
That it was so understood is plain, from the fifth,
.sixth, and seventh articles of the original amendments, which are limitations of the generaity of
a power otherwise unlimited.
That it was not the -design of the constitution
finally and irrevocably to adopt any existing system of State legislation as to process, by reference thereto, ia quiie certain, because there is
no such reference. It could .not refer by implication to the means employed in the State Courts,
because they were many, and no one could say
which was.referred to. It would have been unwise, because it would have made the system in-.
variable, and capable of no amendment. It could
-not have mbant-to refer to the varying forms
adopted by the State Courts, for it was impossible to anticipate how they would be distributed;
these are subjects-of jurisdiction, for which the
State institutions could afford no example, because they had no such tribunals, the jurisdiction
being exclusive; and it would havemade the existence of the national judiciary dependent upon
State legislation.
It must, therefore, be taken for granted, that
the.power of Congress in arranging the Federal
judicial tribunals, and the means to be employed.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

by them for effectuating the design of their es-

Wayman-tablishment,

v.

was plenary, and subject to no ex-

ceptions but those which the constitution itself

Sauthard. has made.

The acts of Congress, to be referred,

to, would show that this had been the uniform
understanding. Nor is the power of Congress
on this subject greater in cases where the United
States are a party, than in other cases, where the
controversy is between individuals.
2. The next question was, what had been done
by Congress?
The act of the 24th of September,] 789, c. 20.
established the judicial tribunals. Tbe 34th section enacts, that " the.laws of the several States,
except where the coniitution, treat.es, or statutes of the United States shall otherwise require
or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision
in trials at common law in the Couts of the
United States, in cases where they apply." But
this merely gives the ground 'ofdecision; it does
not give the means of attaining the decision, or
of giving it effect.
The powers of the Courts are conferred by
the sections from 13 to 17 inclusive. The Courts
b6ing thus established, their jurisdiction defined,
or to be defined, and the nature of their proceedings distinguished, the power to issue the common law writs of mandamus and prohibition,
is vested in the Supreme Court by the latter part
of the 13th section. The 14th. sectioi then gives
them power to issue " writs of scire facias, habeas ,crpus,And all other writs not specially providedfor by statute, which may be necessary To

OF THE UNITED. STATES.

the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and

1825.

agreeable to the usages and principles of law." Waynman

T.
This is to be taken ad referendum, according to
Southard.
to
were
They
perform.
to
were
the function they
be common law Courts, proceeding according to
the course of the common law, with power to issue
writs agreeably to the principles and usages of
that law. The common law remedies "were,
therefore, adopted by the Judiciary Act of 1789,
c. 20. and it has been Judicially deterriiined that
these remedies are to be not according to ihe varying practice of the State Courts,-but according
to the principles of the common law, as settled in
England.a This, of course, is to be understood
with the exception of such modifications as have
been made by acts of Congress, the .rules of
Court made under those- acts, and the: State laws
in force in 1789.
The 18th section, considering that there would
be an immediate right of execution, by the previous provisions, gave a limited stay. There are
further provisions to the same effect i. the 23d,
24th, and t5th sectiops. There are various other
*provisions, but the result is, in all but the excepted
cases, to give an immediate right of "execution,
or after a limited delay.
This act was followed immediately by the
Process Act of the 29th of September, 1789, c. 21.
The second section enacts, "that the forms of
writs, except their style, and modes of process,"
&c. " in the Circuit and District Courts, in suits

a See Robinson'v. Campbell, 3 Wheat. Rep.'221.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
'

v.
soulr.

at common law, shall be the same in each State
respectively as are now used or allowed in the
Supreme Courts of the same." The act was
limited to the end of the next session. It wa
continued by an act of the 26th of May, 1790;
and, by the act of the 8th of May, 1792, c. 137.
[Xxxvi.] its provisions were made permanent.
Whether these acts, in their terms, are to be
understood as .embracing the forms of process
only, or also as describing-the effect, was not,'perhaps, very material to inquire.. The words, understood in their natural sense, comprehend the
whole. The proviso as to executions shows that
they were so understood. But it is entirely certain, that by the conjoint operation of the Judiciary Act, and the Process Act, the means to be
used in the administration of justice, as to their
nature, form; and effect, were fixed upo' a permanent basis; subject to alteration by no other
legislative power than that of Congress, and by
the power given to the Courts of the United
States in the second section of the act of the
8th of'May, 1792, c. 137. [xxxvi.] With the exception-of chAnges since made by Congress, and
by the Court, -the remedies now to be used are
the same as were used in September, 1789.
Whoever would know what are the remedies in a
given case, must inquire what they were in the
particular State at that time. And these remedies are of exactly the same efficacy, and have
the same power and operation,.now as then. Aiiy
thing Bhort of this would be inadequate to the
end to be accomplished. The process is nothing

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The Court is nothing with-

but for the effect.
out its process.

1825.

.To leave this dependefit upon Wyman

State legislation, would be to leave the adminis-

V.

at the Southari&
tration of justice in the Federal Courts

mercy of the States. Congress has made many
changes, and many more are wanting. The
Courts of the United States have made rules for
regulating the practice. But in no case have
changes in any of these particulars been introduced into the Courts of the Union, either by the
legislation of the States, or the rules of the State
Courts.
But, independent of these general considerations, the question has been repeatedly subjected
to judicial determination both in the Circuit'
Courts and in this C6urt. Thus, in the- United
states v. Wor'ta it was held,.that the provision.
in the 34th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,
c. 20. making the State laws rules of decision in
the Courts of the Union, did not apply to the proceis' and practice of the Federal Courte. In
Campbell v. Robinson, .this Court held, that the
remedies in the- Courts of the United States,
both at common law and in equity, are to be, not
according to the fluctuating practice of the State
Courts, but according to the principles of common law and equity as distinguished and defined
in that.country from which we derive our knowledge of ihose principles. The'case of Palmer
a 1 Gao

t.

5. 18.

See also I Petets' !ep. Circ. Cd.

484.
b 3 IMe. R&PS 212.22].

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
WVayinan
Souin.
Soutbard.

v. Allena also confirms the principle for which
plaintiffs insisted.
The value of the process of execution
depends
upon the time when it may be had, and the manner in which it may be executed, and the subjects
upon which it may be levied. If it should be
asked, whether a State may not withdraw certain
kinds of property from execution, the answer
would be, that this was not the question here,
and it was not necessary to go out of the ease.
If the power to establish a judiciary necessarily include the power to confer upon it the authority
to use the needful remedies, it muigt certainly be
allowed that the States cannot hinder and destroy the process of execution. Such a right is
wholly incompatible with the power of the Union
Congress assembled. If it may withhold one
in"
process, it may withhold all. If it can modify,
i. e. impair, or weaken, the efficacy of the process,
the consequence is the same. The Courts would
be then left with the power to adjudicate, but
without the power to enforce their decisions.
But here the property sought to be reached is
subject to execution by the laws of the State ;
and where the end is permitted, the means of
attaining it must be left free.
It wal also insisted, that the statutes of Kentucky in question were repugnant to the constitution of the United States, as -impairing.the obligation of contracts, and as being tender laws.
But as the Court intimated that th, cause might

Sthe

l 7

Cran,:h's Rep .550.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

be upon the other points, the argument tqpon the 1825.
Wayman
Wayman
constitutionality of the act was not pressed.
v.
On the part of the defendants it was insisted,
Southard.
the
ufider
power,
1. That Congress has no
constitution, to enact an execution law, governing the substance of. the 'proceedings on executions from the Federal Courts, in suits between
private individuals.
2... That, supposing Congress to possess such
a power, it could not delegate its authority to the
Supreme and other Courts of the United States.
3.. That the acf-" of Congress .applicable to
this subject, do not attempt to delegate that authority to the C-irts of. the Union.
4. That Congress. has not.attempted to establish a uniform execution law throughout the United States, nor adopted the laws of the States
in force at any particular period, but left the process of execution- to" be regulated from time to
time by the local State iaws.
In support of the first point, a distinction -was
drawn between cases arising from the character
of the partie. such as citizens of different States,
aliens, &c. and cases arising from the nature of
th coniroversy, as involving the constitution,
laws, and treaties of the Union, and over which
the Federal Courts had either an original or appellate jurisdiction.. ,The first class of cases
arose either under foreign or municipal law,
which must be applied as the rule of decision.
The remedy followed as a part of the local law
of the State where the suit was brought. It was
not necessary for Congress to exercis any legis-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

It.ve power- over this class of cases, as it was
overzthe other, depending upon the constitution,
Wayman
V. laws, and treaties of the Union. The grant of
South ard. judicial power was here more extensive than the

1

legislative. It was not necessary that Congress
should have the power of establishing a civil code
for the decision of this class of cases. Neither
was it necessary that Congress should regulate
the substance of the remedies, which might
safely be left to the State legislatures, so long as
they made no laws prohibited by the constitution
respecting contracts. The power delegated in
the third article of the constitution was exclusively
judicial, and, therefore, Congress, whose powers
are legislative only, are necessarily excluded:
The power given to Congress.in the first article,
"to constitute tribunals inferior to the Supreme
Court," does not include the power of regulating
the remedies as to-thig class of cases. In making
-these regulations, Cofigress must either have the
power to authorize the selling all property under
the process of the Federal Courts, or it is restricted to such as the State legislatures -think fit to
subject to execution. If the former, .he -power
includes an extensive control over the civil legislation of the States as to property anal contracts,
which the constitution never contemplated. If
the latter, it is an illusory power, since, if the
States may exempt from, or subject to, execution,,
in their discretion, they may elso re~gulate the
manner of levying, it in all other respects. As
to the power to make all laws necessary and proper to carry into effect the other powers, &c. it

OF THE UNITED STATES.

applied only to those conferred for national pur- 1825.
poses, and not to mere judicial power, which Wayma
v.
• the municipal Southard.
must *be exercised according to
deso
had
law applicable to the cese. Congress
termined, in the 34th section of the Judiciary
Act, by which the Statelaws were made "rules
of decision in trials at common law in the Courts
of the United States, in-cases where theyappiy."
They do apply in the" decision of. all controversies between citizens of different States, or between-aliens and citizens.
2. In support of the secondpoint, that Congress
could not delegate its authority of regulating
process (whatever might be the extent of it) to
the Courts of the Union, it was argued, that by
the general principles of all free and limited governfiant, as well as the particular provisions of
the Federal constitution, the legislative, executive, and judicial powers, are vested in separate
bodies of magistracy. All the -legislative power
is -vested exclusively in Congress. Sipposing
Congress to have power, under the. clause, for.
making all laws necessary and proper, &c. to
make laws for executing. the judicial power of
the Union, it cannot delegate such power to tLe
judiciary. The rules by which the citizen shall
be deprived of his. liberty or property,_to enforce
a judicial sentence, ought to be prescribed and
known; and the. power to prescribe such rules
belonugs exclusively to the legislative department.
Congress could not delegate this power. to the
judiciary, or t6 any. other department of the g6Yernment. The. right to liberty and property is a.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1815. sacred vested right under the constitution.-and
"0'. laws of the Union and States. The regulations
Wayman
v
by- which it is to be devested, for the purpose
of
Southad. enforcing the performance of contracts, are of
vital importance to the citizen. The power of
making such regulations is exclusiiely vested in
the legislative department, by all our ,eonstitu-.
tions, and by the general spirit and principles of
all free government. It is the office of the legis-.
lator to prescribe the rule, and of the Judge to
apply it; and it is immaterial whether it respects
.the right in controversy, or the remedy by which
it is to be enforced. The mere forms and style
of writs, and other process, may, indeed, be regulated by the Courts, but the regulation of thd
substantive part of the remedy belongs to the
legislature. The power to establish Courts,with the jurisdiction defined by the constitution, does not involve, by necessary implication,
the.authority of delegating any portion or incident of that power to the Courts themselves.
That authority is not expressly given; consequently it does not exist.
3. Congress has not, in fact, delegated this authority to the Court. The several Process Acts
passed by Congress, regulate the forms only;
they give to the Courts the power to regulate the
forms only. The expressions .in the 2d sectipn
of the act of 1792, c. 137. [xxxvi.] "subject.
however, to such alterations as the said Courts
respectively shall, in their discretion, deem expedient, or to such. regulations -as the Supreme
Court -of the United States shall think proper,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

from time to time, by rule, to prescribe to any 1825.
Circuit or District Court," apply only to. " the Wayman
forms of writs, executions; and other process,
v.
Soutbard.
in
proceeding
of
modes
and
forms
and the
suits."

Every Court has, like every other public political body, the power necessary and proper to provide for the orderly conduct of its business.
This may be compared to the separate power
which each house of Congress has to determine
the rules of its proceedings, and to punish contempts. This is altogether .different from the
general legislative power, which Congress cannot
delegate, and never has attempted to delegate, to
either house, separately, or to the executive and
judicial departments of the government. To
construe the power to regpulate the forms of process and modes of proceeding, into a power in
the Courts to make execution laws, would be t.
suppose Congress intended to violate the cohstitution, by delegating their legislative power to the
judiciary. The laws of the States on the subject
of executions are various and contradictory.
Did Congress mean to give to this Court the
power to make.a uniform execution law throughout the Union, or .to adopt the common law of
England, and thus to repeal the statutes of all
the States regulating what shall, and what shall
-ot, be subject to execution? The forms of process are distinct from the -right6 and. duties to be
obabrved *intheir execution. The usual form of
afi.fa. is a mandate. to th Marshal to make'the
money of the goods and chattels of the defend-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

ant; but what property may or may not be levied,
"and fow, and when, and where, it is to be sold,
Wayman
v.
avd whether the same is subject to redemption
Southard. by the debtor, are all of the substance of the re-

'v.

-

medy.
4. In support of the position that'Congress intended to leave the process of execution to be
regulated from time to time by the State laws,
it was argued, that the Process Act of 1792, c.
137. [xxxvi.] omits the words contained in the
2d section of the Process Act of 1789, c. 21.,
and modes of process,". used after the words
S forms of. writs and executions," &c. The expressions which seem to. occupy, in the act of
1792, the piace of these omitted words are the
following.: " and modes of proceeding in suits,"
which are too unequivocal to require 'comment.
" Modes of proceeding in suits," made use- of
in connexion with the preceding words, "writs,
executions," &c., plainly refer to those acts in
Court which relate -to the determination of the
controversy, in opppsition and contradistinction
to the -forms of the mesne process, and also of
the process of execution by which the judgment
is enforced after the termination of the suit.
Proceedings after judgment are always distinguished by law writers, both from the.mesne, process, and from the proceedings in the suit.a
There is-a plain difference. betweeii.the forms of
writs, and -their effects, with the powers and duties .conferred under them; between the modes
,I B1.

Cm;c. 24-.25.,26.

OF T14E UNITED STATES.

of proceeding in suits, and the laws of execution 1825.
to enforce the judgment. The only clause• in the Waymrian
V.
Process Act of 1789, c. 21. which favoured the
Southard.
to
Congress
of
intention
the
"7s
it
that
notion
prescribe the effect of any writ of execution, had
been omitted in the Process Act of 1792, c. 137.
[xxxvi.] The conliding paragraph in the 2d
section of the act of 1789, c. 21. " and be at
liberty to pursue the same, until a tender of the
debt and costs in gold and silver shall be made,'"
was entirely omitted in the subsequent act. And
the circumstance of this act having been confined
in its duration to one year, and that at the two succeeding tkessions it had been continued for the
same term. only, and when the permanent act
was passed, this clause, as well as the indefinite
express ion, " modes of process," were both exeluded, • hoved that they were* purposely ex-*
eluded, so thatno. effect should ] e given tb writs.
of execution, other than what they would receive
from the local laws of the States.
The provision in the 34th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20., making the State laws
rules of decision in cases wihere they apply, furnishes the rules by which this case is to be determined. The question is, whether the Marshal
has conducted himself according to law in exe•cuting this process. The mere form of the
writ is insufficient to determine it. If yo apply
the State" execution laws as existing in 1789, or
1792, nearly all the western States will be left
without an execution law applicable in the Federal Courts,. since they were admitted into the
'O"'

Vail. X.

3

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURT

Union subsequent to the enactment of the Process Acts.
-a'-Wanian
Congress has itself given a legislative exposiSouthard. tion of the acts now in question, evidently con1825.

sidering the execution laws of the States t6.be
the laws of execution for the Federal Courts.
By the Judiciary Act of 1793, c. 167. [xxii.] s.
8., itis provided, " That where it is now required
by the laws of any State, that goods taken in
execution on. a writ of fierifacias, shall be appraised previous to the sale thereof," the like proceedings are to be had on executions issuing out
of the Courts of the United States. So, also, by
the act of May 7, 1800, c. 199. [xxv.] regulating
sales of lands, on judgmentn obtained by the
United States, it is enacted, (see. 1.) " That
where the United States shall have obtained
judgment in civil actions brought in those States
wherein, by the laws and practice of such States,
lands, or other real estate, belonging to the
.debtor, are delivered to the creditor in satisfaction of such judgment," &c. the Marshal is to
proceed to sell at public auction, and to execute
a grant to the highest bidder. These legislative
expositions were made long before the present
case arose, and are as binding in fixing the
sense of the legislature as any declaratory act
which Congress could make on-the subject.
The Process Acts regulate the forms of writs,
and the modes of proceeding in suitsi and give
the Courts the power to alter both. The 14th
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20. gives

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to the Courts power to issUe writs " necessary 1825.
for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions,
Iand agreeable to the principles and usages of
Southar8
exedution,
the
issued
law." Where a Court has
according to the form provided under the Process
Acts, it has done all that is authorized by the
14th section of the Judiciary. Act, and by the
Process Acts. The rule which it to govern the
manner of levying the execution, is to be found
in the 34th section of the Judiciary Act. Various regulations -prevail in the States, as to what
property- is liable to execution. In some, lands.
are exempt, except, upon an plegit ;-in others,
'certain personal property is exempt; in all, the
ca. sai is variously, modified. How are all these
conflicting regulationi to be reconciled, but by res6rting to the wise and safe provision contained
in the .34th section of the Judiciary Act,-which
gives the same rule as to the substance of the
remedy which applies to the right in controversy,.
and the same for the Federal Courts as is .used
the State Courts ?
at the.time iq"
. To the argument which had been urged for
the plaintiffs, tbat, upon the supposition that executions from the F'deral Courts are to be regulated by the local laws in each StatO, the State"
legislatures -might entirely defeat the adminis.tration of justice in those Courts, by exempting
property from execution, it was answered, that
Congress (supposing them to possess the constitutional power) might, at any time, apply an.effettual. emedy by enacting a uniform law on the
eubject ; and that,, in the meaa time, all regula-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

tions made by the States. must apply equally to
own Courts; and it was an inadmissible and
'extravagant supposition, that any State werid
thus entirely suspend the course of civil Jiistice.

"their
' Wayma.n

V,
Southard.

It was the province of every sovereign legislature to regulate it, so far as the 'society had not
surrendered that tight to another power. In the
present instance, even supposing the constitution
to be silent on the subject, Congress had shown
a disposition to leave to the States the- power of
regulating it, except as to cases arising underjthe
•constitution, laws, and treaties of the Union, and
of peculiar federal cognizance, aiid excepting
that general power of regulating the forms of
process, and proceedings, which is essential to
ejery Court of justice.
The cause was continued to the present term
for advisement.
Feb. 1iG ,

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the
opinion of the Court, and, after stating
the case,
proceeded as follows:
Some preliminiary objections have been made
by the counsel for the defendants, to the manner
in which these questions are brought before the
Court, which are to be disposed of before the
questions themselves can be considered.
It is said that the proceeding was ex parte.
The law which empowers this Court to take cognizance of questions adjourned from a Circuit,
gives jurisdiction over the single pointon which
the Judges were divided, not over the whole
cause. The inquiry, therefore, whether the par-

OF THE UNITED STATES..

ties were prorerly before the Circuit Court, can- 1825.
not be made., at this time, in this place.
3'
The defendants also insist, that thejudgment,
the execution, and the return, ought to be stated. Southrad.
inorder to enable this Courtto decide the question which is adjournea.
But the questions do not afise on the judgment,
or the execution ; and, so far. as thiey depena on
the return, enough f-that is stated, to show the
-Court, that the Marshal had proceeded according
to the late laws of Kentucky. In a general question respecting the obligati6n of these laws on
the officer, it is immaterial whether he has been
exact, or otherwise, in his obser'vance of them.
It is th6 principle on wLich the.Judges were divided, and'that alone is referred to this Court.
In arguing th6 first question, the plaintiffs -contend; that the comnion law, as'modified by acts of'
Congress, and the -rules. of this Court, and of
•the Circuit Court by which the judgment -was
rendered, must. govern the. officer' 'n all his pro:
ceedings upon -exec .tions of every description.
One of the counsel for the defendants insists,
Congress
has
• power
to regu;
that Congressno power over
executions
late
the
pro.
iS ..has
.
.. . .ceFs
iniall caissued on judgments obtainedby individuals; ands. in -th
of th
that the authority of the States, on this subject,
remains- unaffectea by the constitution. That
the government of the Union cannot, by law,
xegulate the conduct do'
its officers in the service
of executions on judgments rendered in the Fe'de-ral Courts; but that the Stat6 legislatures-retain
complete authority over them. The Court cafinot accede to this novel con-

C ISES IN THE SUPREME COURT

[he constitution concludes its enustructi.
merattin of granted powers, with a clause authorizing Congress to make all laws which shall be
V.
Southard. necessary and proper for carrying into execution
the foregoing powers, and all other powers vested
by this constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department .or officer
thereof. The judicial department is invested
with jurisdiction in certain specified cases, in all
which it has power to render judgment.
That a power -to make laws for carrying into
execution all the judgments which the judicil
depa~rtment has power to.pronounce, is expressly cohferred by this clause, seems to be one of
those plain .propositions Which reasoning cannot
rehtdek plainer. The terms of the clause, neither
iequire nor admit of elucidati6n. The Court,
therefore, will only say, that no doubt whatever
is entertained on the power of Congress over the
subject. The only inquiry is, how far ias this
power been exercised ?
tion of , ej,- The 1th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,
1825.

ofthJct
dry
ryc.2.tu-f
19dici

c. 2. describes the jurisdiction of the Supreme

horites of the
the
Courts

Court,I and grants the power to issue writs of pro-

hibition and mandamus, in certain specified caThe 14th section enacts, " that all the betion, as well as ses.
other writs fore mentioned Courts of the United States
shal
issue
U.
S.oftoesxecuo
writs

have power to issue writs of scire facias, habeas
corpus, and all other writs not specially provided
by statute, which may be necessary for the exercise.of their rs.nective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the principles and usages of law-" The
17th section authorizes the Courts "to make all
necessary rules for the orderly conducting busi-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ness in the said Courts ;" and the 18th, empowers a Court to suspend execution, in order to give

time for granting a new trial.
These sections havebeen relied on by the counsel for the plaintiffs.
The words of the 14th are understood by the
Court to' comprehend executions. An execution.
is a writ, which is certainly " agreeable to the
principles and usages-of law."

There is no reason for supposing that the general 'term "writs," is restrained by' the words,
"which may be necessary for the exercise of
their respective jurisdictions," -to original process, .or to process anterior to judgments. The
jurisdiction of a Court is not exhausted by the
rendition of its judgment, but continues "until
that judgment shall be satisfied.- Many questions
arise'on the process subs'equent to the jildgment,
in which. jurisdiction is"to be exercised. -It is,
therefore, no unreasonable extension of the words
of -the act, to suppose hn execution necessary for
the exercise of jurisdiction. Were it even true,
that jurisdiction could technically be said to terminate with the judgment, an execution would
be a writ necessary for the perfection of that
which was previously done; and would, "consequently;, be .necessary to the' beneficial exercise
of jurisdiction. If any doubt could exist on this
subject, :the 18th section, which treats of the authority of the Court over its executions as actually existing, certainly implies, that the power to
issue them had been granted in the 14th section.
The same implication is afforded by the 24th

1825.
W

v.
Southard.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

and 25th sections, both of which proceed on the

idea that the power to issue writs of execution
'%.'
Wayman
V.aa wps in possession cf the Courts. So, too, the
Process Act, which was depending at the same
time with the Judiciary Act, prescribes the forms
of executions, but does not give a power to issue
them.
On the clearest principles of just construction,
then, the 14th section of the Judiciary Act must
be understood, as giving to the Courts of the
Union, respectively, a power to issue executions
on their judgments.
But this section provides singly for issuing
the
writ, and prescribes no -rule for the conduct of
the officer while obeying its mandate, It has
been contended, that the 34th section of the act
supplies this deficiency.
That section enacts, " that the laws of the
The34t, section of the Judiciary Act-ofsexeral States,. except where the constitution,
ta
. .f
1189, c. 20.
does not apply treaties, or statutes, Ol the United States, shall
to the process ov
and practice ofOtnerywie

the Courts.

requir, or provide, shall

e regarded

as rules of decision in trials 'at common law, in

the Courts of the United States, in cases where
they apply."
This section has never, so far as is recollected,
received a construction in this Court ; but it has,
we-believe, been generally considered by gentlemen of the profession, as furpishing a rule to
guide the Court in the formation of its judgment; not: one for carrying that jtidgment into
execution. It is f' a rule of decision," and the
proceedings after *",,dgment are merely ministerial

It is, too, " a rule of decision in trials at

OF THE UNITED STATES.

commoii law ;" a phrase which presents clearly 1825.
to the mind the idea of litigation in Court, and Wayinan
.n.
could never occur to a person intending to describe an execution, or proceedings after judg- Sotithard.
ment, or the effect of those proceedings. It is
true, that if, after the service of an execution, a
question respecfing the legality of the proceeding should be brought before.the Couirt.by a regular suit, there would be. a trial at common law;
and it may be said. that the case prQvided for by
the section *ould then- occur, and that the law
of the State would furnish the rule for its decision.
But, by thl-c words of the section, the laws of
the State furnish 'a rule of decision for-those
cases only ". where they apply ;" and. the question arises, do they apply to such a case? In
the solition of this question, it will be necessary
to inquire whether they regulate the conduct of
the officer serving the execution ;-for it would be
contrary to all, principle to admit, that, in the
trial of a suit depending on the legality of an
r Alcial act, any other law would apply than that
which had been previously prescribed for the
government of the officer. If the execution is
governed by a different rule, then these laws do
not apply to a case depending altogether on the
regularity of the proceedings under the execution. If, for example, an officer take the property of A., to satisfy an execution against B.,
and a suii be brought by A., the question of property must depend entirely on the law of the
State.- But if an execution issue against A., as
V'rL.X

4

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

he.supposes, irregularly, or if the officer should
Wayman be supposed to act irregularly in the performance
of his duty, and A. should, in either case, prov.
Southud. ceed against the officer, the State laws will give
no rule of decision in the trial, because they do
not apply to.the case, unless they be adopted by
this section as governing executions on judgments rendered by the Courts of the United
States. Before we can assume, that the State
law applies to such a case, we must show that it
.governs the officer in serving the execution ; and,
consequently, its supposed application to such a
case is no admissible argument in support of the
proposition that it does governi the execution.
That proposition, so fax as it -depends on the
construction- of the 34th section, has already
been considered; and we think that, in framing
it, the legislature could not have extended its
views beyond the judgment- of the Court.
The 34th section, then, has no application to
the practice of the Court, or to the conduct of
its offieer, in the service of an execution.
The 17th section would seem, both from the
context and from the particular words which have
been cited as applicable to this question, to be
confined to business actually transacted in Court,
and not to contemplate proceedings out of
Court.
The act to " regulate processes in the Courts
of the United States," passed in 1789, has also
been referred to. It enacts, " that until farther
provision shall be made, and except where by
this act, or other statutes of the United States,
1825.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

is otherwise provided, the forms of writs and 1825.
executions, except their style, and modes of pro- ' Wayman
"'
cess, in the Circuit and District Courts in suits
v.
at common law, shall lie the same in each State Southrd.
respectively, as are now used in the Supreme
Courts of the same.
This act, so far as spects the writ, is plainly
confined to form. Bt iorm, in this particular, it
has been argued, has much of substance in it,
bebause itconsists of the langhage of the writ;
which specifies precisely what the officer is to
do. His duty is presc'ribed in the writ, and he
has only to obey its mandate.
This is certainly true, so far as respedts the
object to be accomplished, but not as respects the
manner of accomplishing it. In aft. fa., for example, the officer is commanded to make of the
goods and chattels of A. B. the sum of moneyspecified in the writ; and this sum must, of
-course, be made by a sale. But the time and
manner of the sale, and the particular goods and
chattels which are liable to the exeoution, unless, indeed, all are liable, are not prescribed.
To " the forms of writs aid'exeputions;" the
law adds th words, " and modes of processP
These words must have- been intepded to comprehend something more than "'the forms of
writs and executions." We h&lve not a right to
consider them as mere tautology. They have a
meaning, and ought to be allowed an operation
more exteisive than the preceding words. The
term is applicable to Writs and executions, but.it
is 0s6 applicable to everstep taken in 4 cause.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
Wayman

Wy.a

It indicates the progressive course of the business frcm its commencement to its termination;
and " modes of process" may be considered
as
proceeding.
of
manner
or
modes
equivalent to
If, by the word process, Congress had intended
nothing more than a general phrase, which might
cpmprehend every other paper issuing out of a
Court, the language would most probably have
resembled that of the first. section, where the
word "processes," not "1process," is used in
that sense. But the introduction of the word
"modes," and the change of the word "processes" for " process," seem to indicate that
the word was used in its more extensive sense,
as denoting progressive action.; -a sense belong-.
ing to the noun in the singular number, rather
than in the sense in which it was used in the first
section, which is appropriate to the same noun
in its plural number..
This construction is supported by the succeeding sentence, which is in these words: "and the
forms and. modes of proceedings., in causes of
.equity, and of admiralty,. and-maritime jurisdiction, shall be according to the course of the civil
law-"

The preceding sentence had adopted the forms
of writs aid executions, and the-nmdes of proeess, then existing in the Courts of the .several
States, as a rule for the Federal Courts, " in suits
at common law." And this sentence adopts
"the forms and mQdes of proceedings" of the
civillaw, "in causes of equity, and of- admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction." It has not, we be-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

lieve, been doubted, thatthis sentence was intend- 1$25.
ed to regulate the whole course of proceeding, "ayan
v.
" in causes of equity, and of admiralty andmaSouthard,
asto
difficult
be
would
It
ritime jurisdiction."
sign a reason for the solicitude 'of Congress to
regulate all the proceedings of the Court, sitting
as a Court of equity, or of admiralty, ,which
would not equally require that its proceedings
should be regulated when sitting as a Court of
common law. The two subjects were equally
within the province of the legislature, equally
demanded their attention, and-were brought. together. to their view. If,then, the words making
provision for each, fairly- admit of an equally extensive interpretation, and of one which will effect
the object that seems to have been in contemplation, and which was certainly desirable, they
ought to receive that interpretation. "The
forms of writs and executions, and modes of process in suits at common law,"- and " the forms
and modes of proceedings, in causes of equity,
and of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," embrace the same subject, and both relate to the
progress of a suit from its commencement to its
close.
It has been suggested, that the words " in
suits at common law," restrain the preceding
words to proceedings between the original writ
and judgment. But these words belong to "writs
and executions," as well as to " modes of process," and no more limit the one than the other.
As exeeutions ce..lassue only after a judgment

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

the Words, " in suits at common law," must apply
to proceedings which take place after judgment.
V.
But the legal sense of the word suit adheres
~oubard, to the case after the rendition of the judgment,

wtytnan

and it has been so decided..
This construction is fortified by the proviso,
which is in these words: "Provided, that onjudgments, in any of the cases aforesaid, where different kinds of executions are issueabie in siuccession, a capias ad satisfaciendum being one, the
plaintiff shall have his election to take out a
capis ad satisfabiendum in the first instance,
and be at liberty to pursue the same, until a tender of the debt and costs in gold or silver shall
be made."
The proviso is generally intended to restrain
the enacting clause, and to except something
which would otherwise have been within-it, or, in
some measure, to modify the. enacting clause.
The Object of .this provisb is to enable the creditor to take out a capias ad satisfaciendum in the
fikst instance, a~nd to pursue it until the debt be
satisfied, notwithstanding any thing to the contrary in the enacting claise.. .It
is perfectly clear,
that this provision i's no exception from that part
of the enacting clause which relates to the "forms
of writs and 'extutions,'-and can be an . exception to that part only which relates to the "modes
of process'.' It secures the right to elect the
capias ad satisfaciendum, in the first instance,
where that writ was-at all issueable under the law
of tha State; and to pdrsue it until the debt and
a Co. Litt. t9l. 8 Co. 53. 5.

OF THE UNITED-STATES.

costs be tendered in gold or silver. It relates to 1825.
Wa
the time and circumstances under which the exe- SWayman
v.
cution may issue, and to the conduct of the officer while in possession of the execution.

These, Southard.

then, are objects which Congress supposed to'be
reached by the words "modes of process," in
The Processthe enacting clause.
Act of 1792, c.
This law, though temporary, has been consi- 137. [x iv.) is
the law which
dered with some attention, because the perima- regulates eeculons issufrom-the
"
--ofing
Courts
of the
nent law has reference to it,• and adopts some
its provisions. it was-continued until 1792, when
u. S. 4 andtheit
L'• adopti
perpetual act was passed on the siibject. This, practice of the
expanator
"
Supee SCourt
whether merely
at.,or also amendatory
the Statesin.
.. of
1789,
as this
of the original act, is the law which must decide rIpeforgovora
Ing oceedthe question now before the Court.
Ingosul
It eiacts, "that the forms of writs, executions, ?cutio , .I4.
,Ject to such at.
terations as
and other process, except their style, and the
S the Courts of
forms and modes of proceeding in suits in those.the U. S. may
make, but not
of common law, shall be 'the same as are now subjict to the
alterations
used in the said Courts respectivelr, in pursuahc which have
of the act entitled, "sn act to regulate proesses lace in *'the
the Unitd
~
exce
t Sate laws and
in the Courts of the United
States,
exceptso
parctice.
far as may have been provided for by the act to
establish the judicial Courts of the United States ;
subject, however, to such alterations and additions as the said Courts respectively -shall, in
their discretion, deem expedient, or to such regulations as the Supreme Court of the United
States shall think proper, from time to time, by
rule, to prescribe to any Circuit or District Court
concerning the same.

This act is drawn with more deliberation than
the original act'; and removes, so far as-respects

CASES IN THE bUPREME COURT

the question now under consideration, som-, doubt
~ which might be entertained in relation to th 3 corWayman
v.
rectness with which the act of 1789 hai been
Southard. construed. It distihguishes very clearly betweer
1825.

the forms of writs and all other process of the
same character, and the forms and modes~of proceeding in suits, and provides for both. It is
impossible to confound "the forms of writs, executions, and other process," which are to be
attested by a Judge,.and to be under the seal of tho
Court from which they issue, with "the .fbrms.
anid modes of proceeding in si-its." They are
distinct subjects. The first desvribes the paper
which issues from the Court, and. is an authority to the officer to do that which it commands;
the last embrices the whole progress of the suit,
and every. transaction in it, from its c5mmqncement t, its termination- which .has been' already
shown not to take- place until the judgment shall
be satisfied. It may, then,.and ought to be understood- as prescribing the cbnduct of the officer in the execution of process, that being a part
of "the procnedings" in the suit. This is to
conform to the kw of the State, as it existed in
September, 178.9. The act adopts the State law
as it then stood, not as it might afterwards be
made.
A comparison of the proviso to the permanent
act,.with that which had been introduced into the
temporary act, will serve to illustrate the" idea,
that the proceedings under the execution were
contemplated in the enacting clause, and supposcd to be prescribed by the words "modes 6f pro-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cess," in the one law, and "iihodes of proceeding," iii the other.

The proviso to the act of 1789, authorizes the

1825.
Wayma"
Wayman

y.

creditor to sue out a capias ad satisfaciendum in Sou4ptr&

the first instance, and to continue it "until a
tender of the debt in gold- and, silver shall be
made." The. prbviso to the.act of 1798, omits.
this last member of the sentenoe.
The appraisement laws. existing in some of
the-States, authorized a debtor taken in execution to tendelrproperty in discharge of his pierson; and this part of the proviso slibws an opinion, that the nactig clause adopted this privilege, and an intention to deprive him of it. The
enacting clause of the act of 1793, adopts theState law, to precisely the same extent with the
enacting clause of the act of 1789; and the omission of the clause in the proviso which has been
mentioned, leaves that part of the adopted lMw,
which allows the creditor to discharge his person
by the tender of property, in force.
The subject was.resumed in-1793, ii the act,
entitled, " An act inaddition to the adt wititled
an act to establish the judicidl Courts of theUnited States."
T.he 8th section enacts, " that, 3vhere it-is now
required by the laws of any State, that goodg
taken in execution on - writ of fieri fatias shall
be appraised previous to the sale thereof, it shall
be lawful for the appraisers appointed under the
authority of the State, to. appraise goods taken
in executionon a fieri.facias issued out of any
Court .of the United S~te, in the- same manner
VOL. X.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

'

1825.

as if such writ had issued out of a Court held

Wayman

under the akithority of the State; and it shallbe

•. nthe duty of the Marshal, in whose
custody such
Souhard. goods may be, to summon the appraisers in like
manner as the Sheriff is, by the laws of the State,
required to summon them ;" " and if the appraisers, being duly summoned, shall fail to attend and
perform the duties required of them,.the Marshal
may proceed to sell such goods without an appraisement. •
This act refers to the appraisement laws of
the'respective States, which were in force at the
time of its passage, without distinguishing between those which were enacted before, and
those which were enacted after, September, 1789.
The fact, however, is understood to be, that they
were enacted previous to that time, generally as
temporary laws, and had been continued by subsequent acts. They required, so far as they .have
been inspected, that appraisers should be appointed by the local tribunals to appraise the propert.y
taken in execution. Supposing laws of this description to'have been adopted by the act of 1789,
the regular mode of proceeding under them would
have been, for the Courts of the United States,
respectively, to appoint appraisers, who should
perform the same duty with respect to executions
issuing out of the Courts of the Union, as was
performed by appraisers appointed under State
authority, with respect'to executions issuing out
of the Courts of the State. It was unquestionably much more convenient to employ that machinery which was already in operation, for such a

OF THE UNITED.STATES.

purpose, than to construct a distinct system; it f 25.
was iore convenient to employ the appraisers
Wayman
already existing in the several counties of a-State,,
V,
than to appoint a number of new appraisers, who
could not be known to the Courts making such
appointments. Accordingly, the section under
consideration does not profess to adopt the appraisement laws of the several States, but pro-.
cbeds on the idea,,that they were already adopted,
and authori.es the officer to avail himself of the.
agency of those persons who had been selected
by the.local tribunals, to appraise property takpn
in execution. .Had these-laws been supposed k
derive their authority to control the proceedings
of the Courts of the -United- States, not. from
being adopted by Congress, but from the vigour
iriiparted to them by the State legislatures, the intervention of C6ngress would, have been entirely
unnecessary. The power which was competent
to dirdct the appraisement, wash competent. to
appoint the appraisers. The act, passed in 1800, "for the relief of per
sons imlrisoned for. debt," takes up a subject on
which every State in the Union had acted previous. to September, 1789. It authorizes the
Marshal to allow the benefit of the -prison rules
to those who are in cstody under process issued
from the Courts of the United States, in- the
same manner as it is allowed to those who are
imprisoned under process issued from the Courts
of the.respective States.
Congress tock up this subject in. 1792, and
provided for itby a temporary law, which was

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
W

continued from time to time, until the permanent
law of 1800 It-is the only act to which the atWayman
V,.
tention.of the Court has been drawn, that can
Sutbard. countenance the opinion, that the legislature did
not consider the Process Act as regulating the
conduct of an officer in the service of executions. It may be supposed, that, in adopting the
State laws as furnishing the rule for proceedings
in suits at common law, that rule was as applicable to writs of capias ad satisfaciendum,as pf
fleri facias; and that the Marshal would be as
much bound to allow a prisoner the benefit of
the rules under the act of Congress, as to sell
'upon the notice, and on the credit prescribed by
the State laws.
The suggestion is certainly entitled to consideration. But were it true, that the Process Acts
would, on correct construction, adopt the State
laws which give to a debtor the benefit of.the
rules, this single act .of superfluous legislation,
which might be a precaution suggested by the
delicacy of the subject, by an anxiety to insure
such mitigation of the hardships of imprisonment, as the citizens of the respective States
were accustomed to see, and to protect the officer
from the hazard of liberating the person of an
imprisoned debtor, could not countervail the arguments to be drawn from every other law passed in relation to proceedings on executions, and
from the omission to pass laws, which would certainly be requisite to direct the conduct of the
officer,, if a rule was not furnished by the Process
Act

OF THE UNITED STATES.

But there is a distinction between the cases,

1825.

sufficient to justify this particular proviAion. The -0-~
Waymam

jails in which prisoners .were to be confined did
not belong to the government of-the Union, and..
the privilege of using them was ceded by the
several States, under a compact with thefUnited
States. The jailers were State officers, and received prisoners cormitted under process of the
Courts of the United States, in obedience to the
laws of their respective States. Some doubt
might reasonably be entertained, how far the
Process -Act might be understood to apply to
them.

V.
t

The resolution of Congress under which the use

ofthe State jails was obtained, " recommended it
to the legislatures of the several States, to pass
laws, making it expressly tho duty of the keepers
of. their jails, to receive, and safe keep therein,.
all prisoners committed under the authority of
the United States, until they shall be discharged
*by due'course of the laws thereof." The laws
of the States, so far as they have been examined,
conform to-this resolution. Doubts might well
be entertained, of permitting the prisoner, under
this resolution, and these laws, to have the benefit
of the rules. The remoijal of such doubts seems
to have been a prudent precautiofi.
(7CrandsPalmer
v..drCranCh's
o'
-Palmer v. Allen,
The caseRe
550)
.. (7 ...
.Zen
2....

revin-.
first sight, ass50.)
Rep. 550) may be• considered,.at
ed, a nd rec n••

supporting the .opinion, that the acts for regula-ciled with the

ting procpsses in the Courts of the United States, sipreent
do not adopt -the laws of the several States, as
they stood in September. 1789, as the rule by

deci.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

which the officers of the Federal Courts are to
Wayman be governed in the service of process issuing
out of those Courts; but, upon an examination
Sol, V.
1815.

Sitnhard. of that case, this impression will be removed.

In that case, as appears from the statement of
the Judge who delivered the opinion of this
Court, Palmer, as deputy Marshal, arrested Allen on a writ sued out of the District Court of
Connecticut, by the United States, to recover a
penalty under a statute* of the United States.
Bail was demanded, and, not being given, Allen
-was committed to prison. For this commitment
Allen brought an action of trespass, assault and
battery. and false imprisonment, in the State
Court. Palmer pleaded-the whole'matter in. justifi'ation, and, upon demurrer, the plea was held
insufficient. The judgment of the State Court
was brought before this Court by writ 'of error,
and was reversed; this Court being of opinion,
that the-plea was a good bar to the action.
The demurrer wa' sustained in. the State
Court, because, by an act of the legislature of
Conriecticut, the officer serving process similar
to that whia was served by Palmer, must, before
committing the person on whom it is served to
jail, obtain a mittimus from a magistrate of the
State, authorizing such commitment; -and that
Court was of opinion, that the act of Congress
had adopted this rule so as to make it obligatory
on the officer of the Federal Court.
This Court was of opinion, that the plea made
out a sufficient justification, arid, therefore, reversed the judgment of the State Court. This

OF THE UNITED STATES.

judgment of reversal is to be sustained, for seve-

1825.

ral reasons, without impugning the general prin- 1-0-~

ciple, that the acts under consideratioA adopt the
State laws as they stood in September, 1789, as Southard.
giving the mode of proceeding in executing process issuing out of the Courts of the United
States.
The act of 1792, for regulating processes in
the Courts of the United States,. enacts, that
"the modes of proceeding in- suits, in those of
common law, shall be the same as are now used
in the said Courts respectively, ii pursuance of
the act, entitled, an act to regulate processes in
the Courts of the United States."
The endorsement of a mittimus on the writ
had never been used, as appears by the opinion'
in the case of Palmer v. Allen, in the Courts of
the United States -forthe'District of Connecticut.
In connexion with this fact, the provision of the.
act of 1792 subjects the modes of proceeding
under the laws of the State, " to such. alterations
and additions as the said Courts, respectively,.
shall, -inthbir discretion, deem expedient." The
uniform course of that Court, from its first establishment, dispensing with this mittimus, maybe
considered, as the alteration in this particular
which the Court was authorized by law to make.
It may very well be doubted, too, whether the
act of Congress which conforms the modes of
proceeding in the Courts of the Union to those
in the several States, requires the agency of'
State officers, in any case whatever not expressly
meiftioned. The laws of the Union may permit

(ASES

1825.
Wayman

V.
Sozubard.

IN THE SUPREME COURT

such agency, but it is by no means clear that
they can cqmpel it. In the case of the appraisement laws already noticed, it was deemed necessary to pass a particular act, authorizing the Mar-

shal to avail himself of the appraisers for the
State; and-the same law dispenses with the appraisement, should they fail to attend. If the
nittimus should be required by the act of Congress, it should be awarded by a Judge of the
United States, not by a State magistrate, in like
manner as an order for bail, in doubtful cases, is
endorsed by a Judge of the United States, in
cases where the State law requires such endorsement to be made by the Judge or Justice of the
Court from which the process issues. The mittimus is a commitment for want of bail; and the
magistrate who awards it, decides, in doing so,
that it is a-case in which bail is denrandable.
But in the particular case of Allen, that question
was decided by the law. The act of Congress
(act of 1799, c. 128. s. 65.) required, that bail
should be given. No application to the Judge
was necessary. The officer was compelled to
arrest the body of Allen, and to detain him in
custody until bail should be given. This act,
therefore, dispenses with any order of a Judge
requiring bail, and with a mittimus authorizing a
comniitment for the want of bail.. The officer
was obliged to detain the body of Allen in custody, and this duty was best performed by committing him, to jail. These reasons operated
with.the Court as additional to the opinion, that
the law of Connecticut, requiring a mittimus in

OF THE UNITED STATES.

civil cases, was, in its terms, a peculiar municipal regulation imposing a restraint on State
officers, which was not adopted by the Process
Act of the United States, and was a provision inapplicable to the Courts of the Union, a provision
which could not be carried into effect according
to its letter.
'The reasons assigned by the Court for its decision in the case of Palmer v. Allen, so far
from implying an opinion that the Process Act
does not adopt the laws of the several States as
giving a rule to be observed by the officer in executing process issuing from the Courts of the
United States, recognises the general principle,
-and-shows why that case should be taken out of
its operation.
So far as the Process Act adopts the Siate laws,
as regulating the modes of proceeding in suits
at common law, the adoption is -expressly confined to those in force in September 1789. The
act of Congress does npt recognise the authority
of any laws 6f this description which might be
afterwards passed by the States. The system,
as it then stood, is adopted, " subject, however,
to .tuah -alterations and additions as the said
Courts respectively shall, in their discretion,
deem expedient, or to such regulations as the
Supreme Court of the United States shall think
proper, from time to time, by .rule, to pres .ribe
to any Circuit or District Court concerning he
same."
This provision enables the several Courts of
the Union tc make such improvements in its
VL. X.
6

1825.
'-

Wayinan

V.

Southard.

CASES IN TIBE SUPREME COURT

1825.
Waymnan

V.
Sothard.

forms and modes of proceeding, as experience
may suggest, and especially to adopt such State
laws on this subject as might vary to advantage
the forms and modes of proceeding which pre-

vailed in September, 1789.
The counsel for the defendants contend, that
0 of 192, c.this clause, if extended beyond the mere regulaoisg tion of practice in the Court, would be a delega,o,
tion of- legislative authority wihich Congress can
s. to
the
makeu. alterare-never be supposed to intend, and has not the
tions inthecongulations
The
Process
in theprovision

cerning execu-power
tions,

to make.

and

But Congress has expressly enabled the Courts
The
those
c.
20.
of
1789,
Act
is not a (ele-17th section of the Judiciary
gation of legislative
is "con-enacts, " That all the said Courts shall have
yandauthoriJrmable to the power" " to make and establish all necesgary
constitution. rules for the orderly conducting business in the
thprocess

issig

to regulate their practice, by other laws.
Courts,
from

said Courts, provided such rules are not repugnant to the laws of the United States.;" and the
7th section of the act, '1 in addition to the act,
entitled, an act to establish the judicial Couts of
the United States," (act of 1793, ch. 22. s. 7.)
details more at large the powers conferred-by the
17th section of the Judiciary Act. These sections give the Court full power over all matters
of practice; and it is not reasonable to suppose
that the Process Act was intended solely for the
same object. The language is different; and
the two sections last mentioned have no reference
to State laws.
It will not be contended that Congress can
'delegate to the Courts, or to any other tribunals,
powers which are strictly and exclusively legisla-

OF THE UN1TED STATES.

tive.

But Congress may certainly delegate to

1825.

others, powers which the legislature may right- ,-v'Waymfin

fully exercise itself. Without going farther
for examples, we will take that, the legality
of 'which the counsel for the defendants admit.
The 17th section of the Judiciary Act, and the
7th section of the ddditional act, empower the
Courts respectively to regulate their practice. It
certainly will not b3e contended, that this might
not be done by Congress. The Courts, for example, may makerules, directing the returning of
writs and processes, the filing of declarations
and other pleadings, and other things of the same
description. It will not be contended, that these
things might not be done by the legislature, without the interventi6n of the Cobrts ; yet it is not
alleged that the power may not be conferred on
the judicial department.
The line has not been exactly ,drawn which.
separates those important subjects, which must
be efitirely regulated by the legislature itself,
from those of less interest, in which a general
provision may be made, and power given to those
who are to act under such general provisions to
fill up the details. To determine the character
of the power given"to the Courts by'the Process
Act, we must inquire ifito its extent. It is expressly extended to those forms and modes of
proceeding in suits at common law, which were
used in the State Courts in September, 1789, and
were adopted by that act. What, then, was
adopted ?

V.
Southard.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
We have supposed, that the manner of proX
ceeding under an execution was comprehended
Wayman by the words forms and modes of proceeding
S'bithard.

in suits" at common law.

The writ commands

the officer to make the money for which judgment
has been rendered. This must be understood
as directing a sale, and, perhaps, as directing a
sale for ready money. But the writ is entirely
silent with respect to the notiqe ; with respect to
the disposition which the officer is to make of
the property between the seizure and sale; and,
probably, with respect to several other circumstances which occur in obeying its mandate.
These are provided for in the Process Act. The
modes of proceeding used in the Courts of the
respective States, are adopted for the Courts of
the Union, and they not only supply what is not
fully expressed in the writ, but have, in some respects, modified the writ itself, by prescribing a
more indirect and circuitous mode of obeying its
mandate -than the officer could be justified in
adopting. In some instances, the officer is permitted to leave the property with the debtor, on
terms prescribed by the law, and in others, to sell
on a prescribed credit, instead of ready money.
Now, suppose the power to alter these modes
of proceeding, which the act conveys in general
terms, was specifically. given. The execution
orders the officer to make the sum mentioned inthe writ out of the goods and chattels of the
debtor. This is completely a legisrative provision, which leaves the officer to exercise his discretion respecting the notice. That the legisla-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ture may transfer this discretion to the Courts, 1825.
and enable them to make rules for its regulation, '
""
will not, we presume, be questioned. So, with
v.
respect to the provision for leaving the property Soutbard.
taken by the officer in the hands of the debtor,
till the day of sale. ie may do this, independent of any legislative act, at his own peril. The
law considers the property as his, for the purposes
of the execution. He may sell it, should it be
produced, in like manner as if h had retained it
in his personal custody, or may recover it, should
it be withheld from him. The law makes it his
duty to do that which he might do in the exercise
of his discretion, and relieves him from the responsibility attendant on the exercise of discretion, in a case where his course is not exactly prescribed, and he deviates from that .which is most
direct. The power given to the Court to vary.
the mode of proceeding in this particular, is a
power to vary minor regfilations, which are within
the great outlines marked out by the legislature
in directing the execution. To vary the terms
on which a sale is to be made; and declare whether it shall be on credit, or for ready money, is
certainly a more important exercise of the power
of regulating the conduct of the officer, biit is
one of the same principle. It is, in all its parts,
the regulation of the conduct of the officer of the
Court in giving effect to its judgments. A general superintendence over this subject seems to be
properly within the judicial province, and has
been al~vays so considered, It is, undoubtedly,
proper for the legislature to prescribe the man-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ner in Which these ministerial offices shall be per'formed, and this duty will never be 'devolved on
Wayman
any other department without urgent reasons.
v.
Southard. But, in the mode of obeying the mandate of a
1825.

\

writ issuingfrom a Court, so much of that which
may be done by the judiciary, under the authority
of the legislature, seems to be blended, with that
for which the legislature rniast expressly and directly provide, that there is some difficulty in discerning the exact limits within which the legislature may avail itself of th-e agency of its Courts.
The difference between the departments undoubtedly is, that the legislature makes, the executive executes, and the judiciary construes the
law; but ihe maker of the law may commit
something to the discretion of the other departments, and the precise boundary of this power
is a-subject of delicate and difficult inquiry, into
which a Court will not enter unnecessarily.
Congress, at the introduction of the present
government, was placed in a peculiar situation.
A judicial system was to be prepared, not for a
consolidated people, but for distinct societies,
already possessing distinct systems, and accustomed to laws, which, though originating in the
same great principles, had been variously modified. The perplexity arising from this state of
things was much augmented by the circumstance
that, in many of the States, the pressure of the
moment had produced deviations frbm that
course of administering justice between debtor
and creditor, which consisted, not only with the
spirit of the constitution, and. consequently, with

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the views of the government, but also with what 1825.
might safely be considered as the permanent po- ',v
licy, as well as interest, of the States themselves. Wayman
The new government could neither entirely dis- Southard.
regard these circumstances, nor consider them
as permanent. In adopting the temporary mode
of proceeding with executions then prevailing
in the several States, it was- proper to provide for
that return to ancient.usage, and just, as well as
wise principles, which might be expected from
those who had yielded to a supposed necessity in
departing from them. Congress, probably, conceived, that this object would be best effected by
placing in the Courts of the Union the power of
altering the "modes of proceeding in suits at
common law," which includes the modes of proceeding in the execution of their judgments, in
the confidence, that in the exercise of this power,
the ancient, permanent, and approved system,
would be adopted by the Courts, at least as soon
as it should be restored in the several States by
their respective legislatures. Congress could
not have intended to give permanence to temporary laws of which it disapproved; and, thern
fore, provided for their change in the very act
which adopted them.
But the -objeqction which gentlemen make to
this delegation of legislative power seems to the
Court to be .fatal to their argument. If Congress,
cannot invest the Courts with the power of altering the modes of proceeding of their own officers, in the service of executions issued on their
own judgments; how.will gentlemen defend a de-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
"

Wayrnan

V.

Soutbard.

legation of the same power to the State-legislatures ?

The State assemblies do not constitute

a ,legislative body for the Union. They possess
-no portion of that legislative .power which the
constitutiofi vests in Congress, and cannot receive it by delegation. How, then, will gentlemen defend their construction of the 34th sectior. of. the Judiciary Act P From this section
they derive the whole obligation which they ascribe to subsequent acts of the State legislatures
over the modes of proceeding in the Courts of
the Union. This section is unquestionably prospective, as well as. retrospective. It regards
future, as well as existing laws.. If, then, it embraces the 'rules of practice, the modes of proceeding in suits ; if it adopts future State laws to
regulate the conduct of the officer in the performance of his official duties, it delegates to the
State legislatures the power which the constitution has conferred on Congress, and which, gentlemen say, is incapable of delegation.
As construed by the Court, this section is the
recognition 'of a principle of universal law; the
principle that in every forum a contract is governed by the law with a view to which it was made.
But the question respecting the right of the
Courts to alter the modes of proceeding in suits
at common law, established in the Process Act,
does not arise in this case. That is not the
point on which the Judges at the circuit were divided, and which they have adjourned to this
Court. The question really adjourned is, whether the laws of Kentucky respecting execu-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tions, passed subsequent to the Process Act, are 1825.
applicable to executions which issue on judg- Wa~man
V.
ments rendered by the Federal Courts ?
Southard.
mainbe
must
applicability
their
If they be,
tained, either in virtue of the 34th section of the
Judiciary Act, or in virtue of an original inherent
power in the State legislatures, independent of
any act of Congresis, to control +he modes of
proceeding in suits depending in the Courts of
the United States, and to regulate the conduct
of their officers in the service of executions issu-.
ing out of those Courts.
That the power. claimed for the State is not
given by the 34th section of the Judikial" Act,
has bee: fully stated in the preceding part of
this 6pinion. That it has n6t an independent
existence in the State legislatures, is, we think,
bne of those political axioms, an attempt to demonstrate which, would be a waste of argument
not to be excused. The proposition has not
been advanced by counsel in this case, and .will,
probably, never be advanced. Its utter inadmissibility will at once present it.elf to the mind. if
we imagine an act of a State legislature for the
direct and sole purpose of regulating proceedings in the Courts -f the Union, or bf their officers in executing their judgmhents. No gentleman, we believe, -will be so extravagant as to
maintain the efficacy of such an act. it §eem8
not much less extravagant, to maintain, that 'the
practice of the Federal Courts, and the conduct
of their officers, can be indirectly regulated by
the State legislathires. by an act professing to reVon.X.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
'

Wayman

v.

Southard.

gulate the proceedings of the State Courts, and
the conduct of the officers who execute the pro-

cess of those Courts. It is a general rule, that
what cannot be done directly from defect of
power, cannot be done indirectly.
The right of Congress to delegate to the
Courts the power of altering the modes (established by the Process Act) of proceedings in
suits, has been already stated but, were it otherwise, we are well satisfied that the State legislatures do not possess that power.
This opinion renders it unnecessary to consider the other questions adjourned in this case.
If the laws do not apply to the Federal Courts,
no question concerning their constitutionality can
arise in those Courts.
This cause came on tobe heard
CERTIFICATE.
on the questions certified from the United States
Court for the seventh circuit and District of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel: on consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that the
statutes of Kentucky in relation, to executions,
which are referred to in the questions certified
to this Court, on -a division of opinion of +he said
Judges of the said Circuit Court, are not applicable to execut'±Ib which issue on judgments
rendered by the Courts of the United States
which is directed to be certified to the said Circuit Court.

