CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

146
1825.
\01Thomas

conclusion is, that the unlawful enterprise had its
origin at Baltimore.

V.

Harvie's

Decree affirmed, with costs.

hairs.

LICANcxRY.]
THOMAS,

Appellant,
V.

GABRIELLE

BROCKENUBROUGH, JOHN HARVIE, ED-

wiN HARVIE, JACQUELINE HARVIE, JULIA ANN
HARVIE, Heirs at law, and Devisees of JOHN
HARVIE,

Respondents.

Although bills of review are not strictly within the statute of limitations, yet Courts of equity will adopt the analogy of the statute in
prescribing the time within which they shall be brought
Appeals in equity causes being limited by the Judiciary. Acts of 1789,
c. 20. s. 22:, and of 1803, c. 353. xciii.] s. 2., to five years after the
decree, the same period of limitation is applied to bills of review.
Qucere, Whether a bill of review, founded upon matter discovered
since the decree, is also barred by the lapse of five years ?
It is in the discretion of the Court, to grant leave to file a bill of review for that cause.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Ken-

tucky. The apliellant, Thomas, *filed in that
Court, at the November term, 1818, a bill to review and reverse a final decree of the same
Court, pronoinced at the May tertm,. 1810, by
which the plaintiff in the bill of review, and defendant in the original suit, was decreed to con-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

vey to the heirs of John Ha'vie, the plaintiffs in 1825.
the original suit, a certain tract of land, which
V.
formed the subject of controversy in that suit. Harvie's
The bill of review, after stating the substance of heirs.
the original bill, which was filed by John Harvie,
and the bill of revivor, after his death,, in the
name of the present respondents, in whose favour
the decree was passed, assigns the .following errors in the said decree, as, causes for ifs reversal.
1. That thd entry of James Clark, under whom
the said John HarVie claimed the land in dispute,
was void for uncertainty.
2. That before the final decree was passed,
the said Harvie died,, leaving a will, by -which he
.devised the land in controversy tohis sons, Edwin
and Jacqueline, two of the plaintiffs in the bill
of revivor, of which will the plaintiff was wholly
ignorant until long after the final decree was entered.
3. That the said Edwin Harvie died previous
io the said decree, and his right in the said land
descended to his heirs at law, John and Lewis,
who were no parties to the said suit, of which.facts
the plaintiff was wholly ignorant until long after
the decree complaine d of.
To this bill of review, the defendahts plead, ii..
bar, the decree passed and enrolled in the origi-.
nal suit, and the prosecution by the plaintiff,
Thomas, of a writ of error to the Supreme Court
to reverse the same, whic' -was dismissed, and
then demurred to so much'of, the bill'as sought to
review and reverse the said deoree.. Upon. argument of the plea and demurrer. the Court below

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

185.
Thomas

dismissed the bill of review, and the cause was
brought, by appeal, to this (,ourt.

V.

Harvie's
heirs.

Mr. Talbot, for the appellant, argued upon the

Feb. 10th.

merits of the original cause, to invalidate the
title of the plaintiff in that cause, founded upon

the entry of Clark; and, also, upon the other
errors assigned in the bill of review. He insisted, that there was no period oqf limitation to bills
of review, by the act of Congress, and that, in
this case, the bill of review being founded upon
newly discovered evidence, and having been permitted by the Court below, in its discretion, to
be filed, it must be determined by the error in
the original decree. In England, it is usual to
recite all the important facts of the cause in the
decree. In this country, this is not done, and,
therefore, the pleadings, exhibits, and proofs,
must be resorted to, in order to discover the errors
apparemt upon the face of the original decree.
Mr. Bibb, contra, insisted, that the first error
assigned upon the merits of the -original cause,
was no ground for a bill of review. The errors
in law must be apparent on the face of the
decree. If a fact be mistaken at the hearing,
and in the detretal order, it must be rectified by
a rehearing, which rehearing cannot be after decree enrolled. The other errors assigned, did
not prejudice the appellant, nor had he any interest in correcting them. But the conclusive
a Comb v. Proud, Caesin C. 54.

5 BL Comm. 454.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

149

objection to the whole proceeding was, that here
is an attempt, by a bill of review, to revise !he

T

original decree, after the appeal is barred by the

Har~ie's

limitation of five years, prescribed in the acts of
Congress. In England, writs of error are limited by statute to twenty years, and the Courts of
equity have limited appeals, and bills of review,
to the same period, by analogy to that statute.a

1825.
V.

heirs.

Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion Feb. 18th.
of the Court, and after stating the case, proceeded as follows:
The first- error assigned in the bill of review,
involves the merits of the original cause, and was
intended to induce a re-examination of the title
of the plaintiffs, in that cause, the validity of
which had been established by the decree. But,
previou§ to an investigation of that subject, -a
preliminary question has been suggested by the
counsel for the appellee, which the Court is called
upon to consider. The record shows, that the
order of the Court, permitting the bill to be filed,
was granted eight years subsequent to the final
decree in the original cause:; and the question to
be decided is, whether this remedy was not barred by length of time ?
It must be admitted, that bills of review are not
strictly within 'any act of limitations prescribed'
by Congress; but it is unquestionable, that
a Stat. 10, and 11. W. 1.c. 14. Stat. at Large, vol. 3. p.
2043. Vine)r's,4r. tit. Limitat, b 1.05. Smith v. Clay, Amb.
645.; but much better rejorted ii note to. Delorain.e v. Browne,
s.Bro. Ch. Cae 639.

150
1825.
Thomas

v.
Harvie's
heirs.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Courts of equity, acting upon the principle, that
and neglect ought to be discountenanced,
apd that in cases of stale demands its aid ought
not to be afforded, have always inteyposed some
limitation io suits brought 'in those Courts. It
is stated by Lord Camden, in the case of Smith
v. Clay, (Ambl. 645. 3 Bro. Ch. Cas. 639. note,)
"that as the Court of equity has no legislative
authority, it' could not properly define the time of
bar by a positive rule ; but that, as often as parliament had limited the time of actions and remedies to a certain period in legal proceedings,
the Court of Chancery adopted that rule, and applied it-to similar cases in equity." Upon this
principle it is, that an account for rents and profits, in a common case, is not carried beyond six
years, or a redemption of mortgaged premises
allowed after twenty years possession by -the
mortgagee, .or a bill of review entertained after
twenty years, by analogy' to the statute which
limits writs of error:to that period.
These principles seem to apply, with peculiar
strength, to bills of review, in the Courts of the
United States, from the circumstance, that Congress has thought proper to limit the time w-ithin
which appeals may be taken in equity causes,
thus creating an analogy between the two remedies, by appeal, and a bill ofreview, so apparen
that the Court is constrained to consider the lai
ter as necessarily comprehended within the
equity of the provision respecting'the former.
For, it is obvious,-that if a bill of review to reverse a decree. on the ground of error apparent

Slaches

bF THE UNITED STATES.

151

on its face, may be filed at any period of time 1825.
beyond .the five years limited for an appeal,;it
will follow, that an original -decree may, in effect, Harvies
V.
be brought before the Supreme Court'for re-ex- heirs.
amination, after the period prescribed by law
for an immediate appeal from such decree, by
appealing from the decree of the Circuit Court,
upon the bill of, review. In .short, the party
complaining of the original decree would, in this
way, be permitted to do indirectly, what the act
of Congress has prohibited him from doing directly.
Whether a bill of review, founded upon matter
discovered since the decree, is in like manner
barred by the lapse of five years after such decree, is a questiQn which need not be decided in
the present case, since we are all of opinion, that
it *isin the discretion of the Court to grant leave
to-file a bill of review for that cause, and that
such leave .ought not to be granted in a case
where it appears that the plaintiff. is not aggrieved by the decree, on account of the 'error
so assigned ; or, that being granted, the Court
ought to dismiss the bill, where no other error
is assigned.
In this case, the Court below decided, in the
original cause, that the title to the land in controversy was vested in the heirs of John Harvie,
and decreed the appellant'to convey the same to
them.
If Thomas, -then, had no title to the land, of
what consequence was itto him, that the conveyance was decreed to be made to all the complain.

152

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
'rather
Elmendorf

V.
Taylor.

ants inthat cause,, as being the heirs of Harvie,
than to two of them, who, lie alleged,
were -entitled to the land as devisees? If they
did not complain of the decree, (and that they
did not, is 'proved by their-plea and demurrer to
the bill of review,) and if the plaintiff in this bill
was not injured by.it, the Court is at a loss to
conceive, upon what legal or equitable ground,
that decree could have been reversed for the
errors growing out of the after discovered evridence. These observations apply equally to the
second and third errors assigned
Decree affirmed, with costs.

[CHANC.tAtX.

EL31ENDORF,,

LIITATIoiv.

LOCAL Liw.]

Appellant, v. TAYLOR and others,
Respondents.

Although. the statutes of. limitation do not apply, in terms, to
Coifrts of Equity, yet the period of limitation which takes away
a right of entry, or an action of ejectment;has been held bf analogy
to bar relief in equity, even where the period of limitation for a writ
of right, or other real action, had not expired.
Where an adverse possession has continued for twenty years, it constitutes a complete bar in equity, wherevgr an ejeetment would be
barred if the plaintiff possessed a legal title.
The rule which requires all the parties in interest to be brought before the Court, dbes not affect the jurisdiction, but is subject to the
discretion of the Court, and may be r.edified according to circumstances.
In the Courts of the United States, wherever the case may be completely decided is between the litigant parties, an interest existing

