CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

358
1825.

Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the Court,
Sthat the Circuit Court erred in refusing the first

"Kepinnger

v.

DeYoung.

and third instructions prayed for by the plaintiffs;
and for these errors the judgment must be reversed, with directions to award a venire facias
de novo. On, the second instruction asked by the
plaintiffs, it is unnecessary to express any opinion.
Judgment reversed accordingly.

[PATENT.)

KEPLINGER V. DE YOUNG.
A., having obtained a patent for a new and useful improvement, to
wit, a machine for making watch chains, 'rought an action, under
the $d section of.ihe Patent Act of 1800, c. 179.[xxvi.] for a violation of his patent right against B. ; and' on the trial, an agr.eement
wis proved, made by the defendant with C., to purchase of him
all the watch chains, not exceeding five gross a week, which he might
be able to manufacture within six months, and an agreement on the
part of C. to devote his whole time and -attention to the manufacture of the watch chains, and not to sell or dispose of-any of them,
so as to interfere wih the *exclusive privilege secmed to the defendant of-purchasing the whole quahtity which it might be prac.
ticable for C. to make: And it was proved that the machine used
by C. with the knowledge and consent of the defendant in . e
manufacture, was the same with that invented by. the plaintit, and
that all the watch chains thus made by C. were delivered to the
defendant according to the contract. Held, that if the contract
was real and not colourable, and if the defendant had no othqr
connexion with C. than that which grew out of the contract, it.did
not amount to a breach of the plaintiffs patent right.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

359

Such a contract, connected with evidence from whicl the jury might 1825.
legally infer, either that the machine which was to be employed in
the manufacture of the patented article was owned wholly or in Ke lfnger
V.
part by the defgndant, or that it was hired to the defendant for six
De Yozing.
months, under colour of a sale of the articles to be manufactured
with it, and with intent to invide the plaintiff's patent right, woold
amount to a breach of his right.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Maryland.
This cause was- argued by Mr. Webster and .Xfarch.& .
Mr. Sergeant, for the plaintiff, and by the Attor-,
ney general,for the defendant.
Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion March 17th.

of the Court.
This'was a suit commenced. by thel-laintiff,
Keplinger, in the Fourth Circuit for the District of
Maryland, against the defendant, for the violati6n
of the plaintiff's patent right, secured to him according to law, in a certain new and useful improvement, to wit, a machine for making watch
chains, &c. The third count in the declaration,
upon which alone this cause bas been argued, is
in the usual form, charging the defendant with
having unlawfully used *the said improvement,
without the consent of the plaintiff first had and
obtained in writing. The defendant pleaded the
general issue, and gave notice to the plaintiff
that he shoulddeny that the exclusive right of
using the improVement mentioned in the declaration, was vested in the plaintiff, or that he was
the original and fist inventor of tle said improvement, and that he should give evideitce to
establish those facts.

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURT

0

At the trial, the plaintiff read in evidence the
.1825.
Keplinger
, letters patent duly granted, bearing date the 4th
V.
DeYoung.

of May, 1820, and proved, that he was the true

and original inventor of the machine specified in
the patent, and that the defendant, together with
John Hatch ond John C. Kirkner, did use the
said machine in the making of watch-chains
from steel, from the 4th of May till some. time in
the month of Deceinber, 1820.
The defendant, in ordet to prove that any .concern or connexion which he had with the said
Hatch and Kirkner, in the making of watchchains, 'by means of the said machine, was
merely as a purchaser of watch-chains from
them under the following contract, produced
and gave the same in evidence. The agreement
referred to, bearing date the 3d of May; 1820,
is between M. De Young, and J. *Hatch and J.
Kirkner, and witnessesi "that the said Hatch
and Kirkner do her'by engage and obligate
themselves-to manufacture and deliver to M. De
Young, or at his store in said city, not less thapi
three gross, but as many as five gross, of wire
watch chains, agreeably to a sample to be deposited with T. Barly, (if practicable to manufacture so many,) in each week, from the date hereof, for the term cof six month's, one half of which
number to be with turned-slides, and the other
half wire slides; the whole number to be four
strands, if the said De Young so choose; but he
is to ave the privilege of directing the description to be furnished, that is to say, what number
of four, five, six. or eight strands : the prices of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

which to be as follows: four strands, two. dollars

125.

per dozen; six strands, two dollars sixty-six cents

Keplinger

v.
and two thirds per dozen, and eight strands at
Young.
De
per
cents
thirty-three
the rate of three dollars
dozen; said Hatch & Kirkner to devote their
whole time and attention to said manufactory,
and neither to sell, barter, nor dispose of, in any
manner, or way, or means whatever, of any goods
of the description herein before described, or
which may, in any manner or way whatsoever,
interfere with the exclusive privilege herein before granted, but will faithfully manufacture fors'aid De Young, and none other, as far as five
gross of chains per week, if practicable, and not
less than three gross per week, at the prices
herein before stipulated, and payable as follows:
one half in cash at the end of every week, for
the total number delivered within the week, and
the other half in said De Young's promissory
note, payable at sixty days from the date thereof.
Arid the said De Youing, on his part, doth hereby
promise to receive from the said Hatch & Kirkner, such quantity of watch-chains answering
the description. of the sample, as it may be in
their power to manufacture, not exceeding five
gross per week, reserving to himself the privilege
of directing what proportio.n thereof shall be
four, six, or eight strands, and pay for the same
weekly in the following manner, viz. the one
half amount of week's delivery in cash, the other
half in a note at sixty days, the same to be settled
for weekly; in mlanndr aforesaid, if required."
The defendant also gave evidence to prove
VOTL.

X.

46

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
Keplinger
De v.

D, Young.

that all the connexion he ever had with the said
& Kirkner, relative to watch-chains made
by them with the said machine or otherwise,
was
merely as a purchaser of such chains from them,
under and in pursuance of the said contract.
The plaintiff then proved, that, At the time of
making the said contract, the defendant was fully
apprized of the existence of the machine described and specified in the patent, and of its prior
and original invention by the plaintiff, and of the
intention of the plaintiff to obtain the said patent; and that the said contract was made with a
view to the employment by the said Hatch &
Kirkner,. in the manufacture of watch-chains, of
a machine precisely similar to that invented by
the plaintiff, after the plaintiff should have obtained his patent; and that a machine precisely
similar to that invented by the plaintiff was employed by the said Hatch & Kirkner in the manufacture of watch-chains by them under the
said contract, and with the knowledge and consent of the defendant during the whole period
aforesaid, he and they having received notice, on
the 5th of May, t820, of the plaintiWff's patent,
and that the watch-chains go manufactured by
Hatch & Kirkner, during the whole of the said
period, were delivered by them to the defendant,
and by him received, under and in conformity
with the said contract.
Upon this evidence, the Couxt, at the request
of the defendant's counsel, instructed the jury,
that the plaintiff was not entitled to a verdict on
the first and speond counts in his dpclaration.

SHatch

oF THE UNMTED STATES.

36,n

because the acts which they charge, if true, con- 1825.
stitute no offence againAt the plaintiff's patent. Keplinger
V
And that, if the jury should be of opinion, on
and De Young.
sole
the
is
plaintiff
the
that
evidence,
the
original inventor of the whole machine ; and that
the defendant had no other connexion with
Hatch & Kirkner with regard to these chains,
than that which arose from his said contract
with them, under which he procured the chains
to be made by Hatch & Kirkner, and sold them
when so made; and that the said contract is a
real contract; then these acts constituted no
breach of the plaintiff's patent-right on the part
of De Young, and that the verdict must be for
the defendant; and that this legal aspect would
not'be changed, although the defendant may, on
any oocasion, have supplied, at the cost of Hatch
& Kirkner, the wire from which the. chains so
manufactured were made.
To this instruction the plaintiff's counsel took
a bill of -exceptions, and a verdict and judgment
having been rendered for the defendant, the
cause is brought into this Court by a writ of
error.
Questio,,,u,the bill Of
The only question which is presented by tlthe
.,der
bill of exceptions 'to the consideretion of txsceptions:
Court is, whether the Court -below erred in
the instruction .given to the jury; and this must
depend upon the correct construction of the
3d section of the act of Congress, of the
17th of Aptil, 1800, c. 179. which enacts, " that
where any patent .shall be granted, pursuant to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

the act of the 21st February, 1793, c. 156. and

g
KReplinger

any person without the consent of the patentee,
his executors, &c. first obtained in writing, sha;1

v.
Do Young.

make, devise, use, or sell, the thing whereof the
exclusive right is secured to the said patentee
by such patent, such person so off'ending shall
forfeit and pay to the said patentee, a sum equal
to three times the actual damage sustained by
such patentee," &c. lHw far the
The contract, taken in connexion with the

evidence, copnectedcontract,
with whole
thle

Tnight

have

authorized the

of the evidence stated in the bill of exceptlons,
if the same were believed by the jury,
.

jury to infer,formed most certainly a strong case against the
chethe ml-

eferidant, sufficient to have warranted the jury

ed in the me-"
nufature

the

m-in

patinted to

artiles,

was

inferring, either that the m.chine which was

be employed in the manufacture of the watch-

chains was owned in whole or in part by ,h6
was hiied to defendant, or that it was hired to the defendant
the defendant
under
ofra
sale colour
of the for six months, under colour of a sale of the artiowned by the
defendant,

or'

arties to becles which might be manufactured with it, and
manufactured
with intent
it, and
In With
Ith

intent to invade the plaintiff's patent right.
the Whether the contract, taken in connexion with
plintff' P-the whole of the evidence, does or does not
violate

tent right.

amount to a hiring by ti defendant of the niaT
chine, or the use of it for six months, is a point
which is not to be considered as being decided
either way by the Court. The bill of exceptions
does not call for an opinion upon it.
lffect
of
the
But the contract taken by itself, amounted to
contract taken
rc,tknno
more than an. agreement :by the deferidant to
purchase, at a fixed price, all the %watcbchains,
not exceed.ing five gross a week, which Hatch

OF THE UNITED STA'ftJS.

& Kirkner might be able to manufacture in the

365
1325.

course of six months, with any machine they ""'

-

Kepliitger

might choose to employ; and an agreement oit
V.
the part of Hatch & Kirkner, to devote their De Young.
whiole time and atteption to the manufacture of
the chains, and not to gell or dispose of any of
tnem, so as to interfere with the exclusive privilege secured to the defendant, of purchasing the
whole quantity which it might be practicable for
them to -make.
If this contract was real, and not colourablo,
which is the. obvious .meaning of the instruction,
arjd- the defendant had no other connexion with
H. & K. in regard to these chains than what
grew out of it, it would, in the opinion of the
Court, be an extravagant construction of the patent law, to pronounce that it amounted to a
breach of the plaintifl's patent right, by fixing
upon the defend'ant the charge of having used
the plaintiff's machine. Such a construction contracts'
Ef'et o'
to,
would be highly inconvenient and unjust to the prchase pa-

tented articles

rest of the community, since it •might
aubjact anyfrorfi
a manu-.
"
-- acturer
who
man Who might innocently contract with a manu- inringes the
facturer to purchase all the articles which hepatent ght.
might be able to make -within a limited period,
to the heavy penalty inflicted by thb act, although
he might have been ignorant of the plaintiff's
patent, or .tfat a violation of it would be the
necessary. consequence of the contract. It might
possibly extend farther, and affect contracts express or implied, though of a more limited character, but equally innocent, as to which, however, it is not the intention of the Court to ex-

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURT

-366

press any opinion, as this case does not call
it.
Keplinger
v.
I This cause was argued by the plaintiff's counDeYoung. sel as if the opinion'of the Court below had been
1825.

Sfor

given upon the whole of the evidence. But this
not the case. No instruction w~s asked for
circuit cwur,,was
as applied to ua
on
as, that was
toa defendant's counsel, and
co by the
tbe
thatcaseartuponobut
the conwhich an in- confined to a. single part qf the case,
struction wanexion between the defendant and H. & K., in
asked.
regard to the watch-chains which the latter bound
themselves, by their contract, to -manufacture
and deliver to the former. If the jury had been
of opinion, upon the whole of the evidefhce, that
the contract was not a real one, or that that instrument did not constitute the sole connoxion
between those parties, or that the transaction
was merely colourable, with a view to evade the
law, the jury were not precluded by the instruction from considering the plaintiff's patent rigfit
as violated, and finding a verdict accordingly.
Had the plaintiff& counsel- thought proper to
The opinion
bf this Court
to the call upon the Court for an opinion and instrucAngle
confined pln',,
any points arising out of
the
opinion
Effect of the

p,,o which tion to the
the charge of
the Cour be-tehe whole,

jury, upon

or any part of the evidence, it would

low, excepteJ

to, was givin, have been their duty to give an opinion upon

such points, leavihg the concltision of fact from
the -evidence fo be drawn by the jtury. But this
course not having been piirsued,, this Court can
take no notice of the evidence, although spread
upon the record,-except so fai as it is connected
with the single point upon which the opinion,
which. is excepted to was given. As to the residue of that opinion, that" the legal aspect of the

OF THE UNITED STA'TES.

367

case would not be changed, although the de- 1825.
fendant might, on any
M occasion, have supplieq, De Wolf
at the cost of H. & K, the wire from which the
v.
chains so manufactured were made," it is quite as Johnson.
free from objection as the preceding part of it,
since it stands upon piecisely the same principle.
Judgment affirmed, With costs.

[UsuRy.

Lax Loci CONTRACTUS.) I

DE WOLF V. J. JOHNSON,
BARRY,

R. M. JOHNSON,. W., T.

and .J. PRENTISS,

in a contract for the loan of money, the law of the place where the
contract is made is to govern ; and it i5 immaterial that the loan
was to.be secured by a mortgage on lands in another. State.
In such a case, the statutes of usury of the State where the cont'ract
was made, and notihose of the State where it is secured by mortgage, are to govern it, unless there be sofe other circumstance to
show, that the parties had in view the laws of-the latter State.
Although a contri.ct bp ussirious in its inception, a stibsequent agreement to free it from the taint of usury, will render it'valid.
The purchaser of an equity of redemption canmot set up usury as
a defence to a bill brought by the mortgagee for:a foreclosure, especially if the mortgagor has himself waived tht defence.
Under a usury law wvhich does not avoid the securities, but only forbids the taking'a greater'interest than six per centnm per annum, a'
Cosrt of equity will not refuse its ajd t9 recover the'principal.
A certificated bankrupt or insolvent. against whom no relier 6an he
had, is not amecessary 'party to a suit in equity; but if he be made
a defendant, he cannot be examined as a vitness in the cause, until
an order has been obtained upon motibo for that pnrpose.-

