(65

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Uniis not, repugnant to the constitution of the
is directed to be certified
The Antelope. ted States. All which
foer the
to the Circuit Court of the United States
seventh circuit and District of Kentucky.a
1825.

[PRIz.

INSTANCE CoURT.

SLAVE TRADE.]

The Vice-Consuls of Spain
The ANrTELOPE.
and Portugal, Libellants.
to the luw of nature, but is not
The African slave trade is contraly
prohibited by the positive law of rations.
by the laws of most civiliAlthough the slave trade is now prohibited
on by the subjects cf
carried
lawfully
be
still
may
zed ndtions, it
acts or treamunicipal
by
it
those nations who have not prohibited
ties.
so by the treaties or statutes
The slave trade is not piracy, unless made
belongs..
of the-ation to whom the party
.
does not exist in time of peace.
rheright of visitation, and search
of
laws
the
by
prohibited
if
ve sel engaged in the slave trade, even
cannot, for that cause alone, be
the country to which it belongs,
in for adjudication, in time
seized on the high seas, and brought
But if the laws of
country.
of peace, in the Courts of another
be authorized by
proceeding
the
or
that other country be violated,
unlawful.
case
that
treaty, the act of capture is not in
States v. January,
a In the case of the Bank of the United
the process was
Kentucky,
of
also certified from the Circuit Court
in express
extend
1792,
and
-a capia$, to-Twhich the acts of 1789,
must be
Congress
that
terms. This Court, thereforei-4letermiried,
process as one that was to issue
understood to have adopted that
the Uiited States, whenever it
permanently'froim the Courts df
by those acts, as a State
was in use, at, the epoch contemplated
accoidingly.
proceisg. A certificate was directed

OF THE UNITED STATES.
It seems, that in case of such a 'seizure, possession of Africans is not 1825.
a sufficient evidence of property, and that the onu, probandi is
thrown upon tile claimant, to show that the possession was lawfully Tle AntelopW.
acquired.
Africans who are first captured by a'belligerent privateer, fitted out in
violation of our neutrality, or by a pirate, and then recaptured and
brought into the ports of the United States, under a reasorfable suspicion that a violation of the Slave Trade Atts was Intended, are
not to be restored without full proof of the proprietary interest;
for in such a case the capture.is lawful.
Ad whether, in such a case,*restitution ought to be decreed at all,
was a question on which the Court was equally divided.
Where the Court is equally divided, the decree of the Court belQw
is of course affirmed)'so far as the point of division goes.
Although a consul may claim for aukfect unknotwn of his nation, yet
restitution cannotbe decreed without specific proof of the individual
proprietary interest.

from the Circuit Court of Georgia.
These cases were allegations filed by:the ViceConsuls of Spain and Portugal, claiming certain
Africans as the property of subjects of their nation. The material facts were as follows : A privateer, called the Colombia, sailing under a Venezuelean commission; entered the port of Baltimore
in the year 1819; clandestinely shipped a crew
of thi.rty or forty *men; proceeded to sea, and
hoisted the Artegan flag, assuming the name of
the Arraganta, and prosecuted a voyage alQng
the.coast of Africa; her officers and the greater
part of her crew being citizens of the United
States. Off the coast of Africa she captured an
American vessel, from Biistol, in Rhode Island,
fro~a hvllich she took twenty-five Africans; she
captured severad Portuguese vessels, from which
she also took Africans ; and she captured a Spanish vessel, called the .Antlope, in which she
APPEAL

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18I5.

also took a considerable number of Africans.

Tie
The Awlopp-The

two vessels then sailed in company to the

coast of Brazil, where the Arraganta was wrecked,
and her master, Metcalf, and a great part of his
crew, made prisoners; the rest of the crew, with
the armament of the Arraganta, were transferred
to the Antelope, which, thus armed, assumed the
name of the General Ramirez, under the corn-,
mand of John Smith, a citizen of the United
States; and on board: this vessel were all the
Africans, which had been captured by the privateer in the course of her voyage. This vessel,
thus freighted, was found hovering near the coast
of the United States, by the revenue cutter,,
Dallas, under the commanld of Captain Jackson,
and finally brought into the port of Savannah for
adjudication. The Africans, at the time of her
capture, amounted to upwards of two hundred
and eighty. On their arrival, the vessel, and the
Africans, were libelled, and claimed by the Portugixese and Spanish Vice-Consuls reciprocally.
They were also claimed by John Smith, as captured jure belli. They were claimed by the.United States, as having been transported from foreign parts by American citizens, in contravention to the laws of the United States, and as entitled to their freedom by tho~e laws., and by the
law of nations. Captain Jackson, the master of
the. revenue cutter, filed an alternative claim for
the bounty given by law, if the Afr'¢ans should
be adjudged to the United States; or to salvage, if
the whole subject should.be adjudged to the Porruguese and Spanish .Consuls.

OF THE UMiTED STATES.

The Court dismissed the libel and claim of 1825.
John Smith. They dismissed the claim of theht
United States, except as to that portion of -the
Africans which had been taken from the Amencan verssel. The residue was divided-bet*een
the Spanish and Portuguese claimants.
No evidence was offered to show' which of the
Africans were taken from the American .vessel,
and which from the Spanish and Portuguese;
and the Court below decreed, that, as about one
third of them died, the loss should be averaged
among these three different classes; and that sixteen should be designated, by-lot, fiom the wholenumber, and delivered over to the Marshal, according t6 the law of the United States, as being
the fair proportion of the twenty-five, proved to
have been taken from an American vessel.
Feb. 26k

The Attorney General,for the appellants, sta.- -8th,an.

ted, that the cases of the respective allegations"
of the Spanish and Portuguese Consuls, upon,
which distint appeals had been'taken, which had
been separately docketed in this Court,," were
so blended together, that it was thought most
proper to bring on the hearing in both cases-at
the same time.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL stated, that the
appellants, in the argument of No. 12, might.
refer -to the evidence in No. 13; they might.inyoke it into this cause, so far as it was necesary
for theii -purpose, and the Court would take noa The Spanish case as No. 1t and the Port'.uese as No. !S.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tice of the facts which appeared in the other
but that the two causes must come
ptranscript;
The Antelope.on separately, and in
their order. But it has
been thought most expedient to report the two
arguments together.
The reasons assigned in the appellants' case,
for reversing the decrees of the Court below,
were as follows :
1st. That the possession of these Africans by
the claimants, before the capture by the privateer, affords no presumption that they were their
property; that they must show a law entitling
them to hold them as property.
2. That if these Africans are to be c-)nsidered
as having been in a state of slavery, when in the
Spanish and Portuguese vessels from which they
were taken, and if the Court shall c nsider itself bound to restore them to the ¢ond.tion from
which they were taken, this can be done only by
placing them ifithe hands of those wh9 shall
prove themselves to have been the owners; and
that this purpose cannot be answered by restoring them to the Consuls of Spain and Portugal.
3. That if some of these Africans were the
prbperty of the claimants, yet some were not;
and failing to prove which were theirs, the decree is erroneous, in determining by lot, a matter
which the* claimants were bound to establish by
proof.
1825.

MIr. Key, for the appellants, argued, that the
facts. of the case presented the question to be
considered in a point of view, peculiarly favoura-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ble to the appellants. A piratical vessel was
medifound hovering near our coast, apparently
brought,
tating a violation of our laws.

It was

with the persons on board, into the custody of
the Court, by an act of seizure, not only lawful, but
meritorious towards the claimants, since it rescuied what they claim as their property, from the grasp
of pirates. If the claimants had not interposed,
the course of the Court would have been obvious.
The illegal and pirati al capture by our citizens,
gave.them no rights; and even if it .did, they instantly forfeited them under our laqs, which they
intended to violate. But the claimants, demand
restitution of the Africans found on board this
vessel,. alleging them to' be their property, lawfully acquire& on the coast of Africa, and piratically taken from them by the Arraganta. This
demand is resisted by the government of the
United States, upon the ground that the persons
in question are not by our laws. to be considered
as slaves, but as freemen. These laws the
Court must administer, and npt the laws of Spain.
Our national policy, perhaps our safety, requires,
that there should be no increase of this species
of population within our territory. The acts of
Congress provide that, however brought here,
they shall be set free, and sent back to their own
native country. The Sphnish and PFortuguese
claimants deftiand them as theii property. We
repel the claim., by asserting their right to liberty.
The demand of iestitution is incofisistent with
our policy, as declared in our statutes and other

1825.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
I

public acts.- These declarations gave fair.warnengaged in the slave trade, that though
ing to
we
didthose
not intend to interfere with them on the
high seas, yet, if their victims should come within
the reach of our laws, we should protect them.
These acts constitute a solemn pledge to all nations interested in the suppression of this inhuman traffic, and to Africa herself, that if the objects of it should .seek our protection, where they
may lawfully receive it, within our territorial jutisdiction, and at the feet of our tribunals of
justice, they should be entitled to that protection.
Therefore, admitting the facts as alleged by the
claimants, what they claim as justice in a matter
of property, cannot be done to them, without disregarding our own policy, endangering our own
safety, infringing our own laws, and violating the
plighted faith of the c6untry.
But supposing they have a right to insist on
restitution of their property, what proof ought
to be required, and what proof do they give, of
their proprietary interest ? It is material, also,
here to consider, that those human beings, who
are claimed as property, come into the jurisdiction of the Court, not by any wrongful act of
ours, but lawfully, providentially; and are to be
treated just as if they were thrown upon our shore
by a storm. The Spanish owners show, as proof
of property, their previous possession; and the
possessor of goods, it is said, is to be presumed
the lawful owner. This is. true as to goods, because, they have universally and necessarily tn
a VPile.4ppendir, Note I. (A:)

OF THE UNITED STATES.

owner. But these axe men, of whom it can- 1825.
"
not be affirmed, tha they have universally and
andThe Antelope.
particular
some
In
owne
an
necessarily
excepted cases, depending upon the local law
and usage, they may be the subjects of property
and ownership.; but by the law of nature all
men are free. Th6 presumptiofi that even black
men and Africans are slaves, is not a universal
presumption. It would be manifestly unjust, to
throw the onus probandi upon then- to prove
their birthright. Whatever may have once been
the condition of Africa, and of the African slave
trade, the authentic information on this subject
will show, that it is now impossible to determine,
by the fact of possession, whether the party has
been lawfully acquired or not. There pnust be
ai overwhelming probability of the lawfulness of
sueh acquisition, to raise such a'. presumption.'
This is instanced by the different presumptions
allowed indifferent parts of our own country, in.
respect to this description of persons. In the
southern States, -there is the highest degree Of
probability, from universal practice and well
known law, that such persons are slEavqs. But
in .the- northern States, the probability is just
the contrary, and the presumption is reversed.
And in the present state of the slave trade,
Africans, in a slave ship on the. high seas,
are in no such circumstances .as to raise a
presumption that they are lawfully held in slavery. For if there be a permitted slave trade,
there is also a prohibited slave trade; and the
prohibition is much more extensive thanthe perVoiw. X.

10

t ASES IN THE SUPREME COJRT

mission. The claimants must, consequently,
show something more than mere possession.
e
TheAntelope.
They must show a law, making such persons
property, and that they acquired them under such
law. In order to maintain their title, they show
the municipal law of Spain; but the operation
of that law can only extend throughout the territory of Spain, and to Spanish vessels on the high
seas. These persons are now within the jurisdiction of our conflicting law]; and they are
brought here without any violation of the sovereign rights of Spain. Our own law, whi6h is
in force here, must prevail over the law of Spain,
which cannot have an extra-territorial operation.
There is no reason of comity, or policy, or justice, which requires us to give effect to a foreign
law conflicting with our own law on the same
subject. Besides, the Spanish law is not only contrary to ours, but is inconsistent with the law of
nature, which is a sufficient reason for maintaining the supremacy of our own code. If this
municipal law of Spain were allowed to prevail
againct our law, in our own territory, and before
our own Courts, the same effect must be givel
to the law of every other country, under the same
If, instead of these Africans,
circumstances.
there had-been taken by the same illegal capture,
Spanish slaves, from an Algerine corsair, and
afterwards brought in the same manner into our
ports, they might, upon the same principle, be
reclaimed by the representative of __,6iers,.who
could easily show, that, by the law- prevailing
among the Barbary states, they were slaves.
The municipal law of Spain, then, is insuffi1825.

OF THE UNITED STATE6.

cient to maintain the title set up by the claim- 1825.
ants. They are driven to the necessity of in- The Antelope.
yoking the aid of the law of nations, as sanctioning their asserted right to property in these human beings. But if the law of nations is silent
upon this subject; if it neither sanctions nor
forbids the traffic in African slaves; if it is municipal law alone which determines in what manner private property is acquired and lost, then
the claimants have no law to stand upon in asserting their claim. Supposing, however, this
idea not to be correct, it is incumbent on the
claimants to show, positively, that the slave trade,
as now practised, has the sanction of the law of
iiations, as now understood by the civilized and
Christian nations of the world. That it once
had that sanction, may, peihaps, be admitted;
but, it must also be admitted, that there wa.s
once a time when it had not that sanction. The
permission began by general assent and usage.
The King of Spain, in .the preamble to his edict
of 1817, admits that it was incorporated into the
code of nations as an exception to the general
principles on which that code is founded.a When
the -practice was adopted by the general, not
universal assent, of'civilized nations, it became
a part of the law of nations. In the same manner, a general, and not a universal, denunciation
-of the practice, js sufficient to make it cease to
be a part of the law of nations. In the great
moral and legal revolution which is now going
on in the world respecting this trade, the
a Ird*..ppndix.Nntel

.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
he Atepe.

time must come when it will cease to have

a legal existence

by the universal concur-

rence of nations. In the mean time, the question must be discussed, as it arises under various
circumstances, until we reach the desired period,
when' the. universal sentiment of the Wise and
the good shall become the rule of conduct sanctioned by authority capable of enf~rcing it. All
tl te modifications and improvements in the modern law of nations have been gradually introduced. The writers upon that law explain the
manner in which these changes have been made
and sanctioned.t The documents to be laid before the Court will show the present state of the
world's opinion and practice upon this subject,
and will prove-that the time is at hand, if it has
not already arrived, when the slave trade is not
only forbidden by the concurrent voice of most
nations, but is denounced and punished as a
crime of the deepest die. This is shown by the
declarations contained in the treaties of Paris
and Ghent-; -by the acts and conferences at the
Congresses of Vienna, London, and Aix la Chapelle; by the treaties between Great Britain,
and Spain, and Portugal; by the negotiations
between the United States and Great Britain;
and by the reports of the committees ofthe House
of Commons, and the Hbuse of Representatives
in Congress. We contend, then, that whateverwas once the fact, this trade is now condemned
by the general consent-of nations, who have puba Vattel, Droit des Gens, Chap. Prelim. § 25-27. 56. liv.
L cr. 23. 293. Burlam. 165, Afartens,1.9.§ 5.1. 11. § 1.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

licly and solemnly declared it to be unjust, inhuman, and illegal.

We insist, that absolute una-IThe Antelope.

nimity on this subject is unnecessary; that, as it
was introduced, so it may be abolished, by general concurrence. This general concurrence may
not authorize a Court of justice to pionounce it
a crime against all nations, so as to make it the
duty of all to seek out .and punish offenders, as
in the case of piracy. No decision has yet gone
that length, nor is it necessary in this case to
.ontend for such a principle. But in a case
where the Africans are lawfully brought before
a Court of the law of nations, and are claimed
as property, by those who must be consideree as
actors in the cause, and who must, consequen .ly,
prove their title as alleged; the fair abstract
question arises, and their claim may well bf repudiated as founded in injustice and illegal" y.
The learned counsel here commented upon the
different case§ in England and this country, with
the view of.rec.ornciling them, and showing that
they were all consistent with the principle hmaintained.. In- the cases of the Amedie,' the
Fortuna, and the Dornza Marianna,ethe ship
and persons on board were lawfully brought into
the custody of the Court, either as being capturedjurebelli, or taken under circumstances which
warranted a seizure as for a municipal offence.
The claims -were accordingly rejected, upon the
ground of the unlawfulness of *thetrade. In the
subsequent cases of the Louis, and of .3fadrazo
a Actons Rep. 240.

1825.

b. 1 Do&onls Rep. 81.

d 2 Dod'sRep.

c I.. 91.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

v. Willes,n the original- seizure was held to be

Te
The
Antelope.

unjustifiable, and consequently restitution was
decreed. But none of the important principles

settled in the other cases, are overruled in these
cases, which turn exclusively upon the point, that
the wrong first done in the unlawful'seizure must
be redressed. In the case of La Jeune Eugeni,
the claim of a French subject was rejected, as being
founded in a breach of the municipal law of his
own country, and the subject matter in controversy was delivered up, with the consent of the
executive government of this country, to the sovereign of France, to be dealt with as he should
think fit. All these latter cases show, that where
the Court has rightfully obtained possession of
human beings, who are claimed as slaves, it will
not restore them to their alleged proprietors, although it may not go so far as to lunish those who
are engaged in the trade, by the confiscation of
the vehicle in which it is carried on.
But another view may be taken of this rtibject. The King of Spain, in his edict of 1817,
(before referred to,) informs us, that the slave
trade originated in motives of humanity, and was
intended to avoid the greater evils growing out of
the barbarous state of the African continent.
Suppose this to be a just representation, and that
the trade formerly consisted merely in the transportation of persons who were slaves in Africa, to
be slaves elsewhere; it is at last discrovered, by the
a 3 Darnwelland.ld.353. The several cases cited, will be
found in the Appendix to the present volume of these Reports, (G.",
b 2 Mason's Rep.
p. 40-48.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

evidence taken before the British House of Cornmons in 1790, by the investigations of the Afri-Treports of the Brican Institution, and by the

tish and American naval officers, 'to have entirely
changed its character. Slaves are no longer acquired merely by capture in war, or by trade;
but free persons are seized and carried 'off by the
traders and their agents. Wars are instigated
by them, for the mere purpose of mak ing slaves.
The persons thus enslaved are clandestinely
brought away, under circumstances of extreme
cruelty, aggravated by the necessity of concealment, and smuggled into every country where
the cupidity of avarice creates a demand for
these unhappy victims. May it not be asked, is
this trade? Is it lawful? Has it not so changed
its nature as to have become prohibited?
Again: supposing the slave' trade" not yet to
have be6ome generally illegal; still it has become so to the subjects of those countries who
have issued declarations against the trade. To
such the argumentum ad hominem may be fairly
applied, as Sir W. Scott says in the Louis. Spain
and Portugal are among the countries who have
issued th'e most formal declarations against this
trade, although they have not yet taken the hnost
effectual measures to suppress it. By the treaties between these powers and Great Britain-.
fhey have.stipulated the entire abolition of the
slave trade north of the equator. But their authentic declarations pronounce it to be unlawful
and inhuman, wherever carried on; and the permission to continue it south of the line can only

1825.
.'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

affect them, and their subjects, and the powers
whom they have made such treaties. Their
with
sqbjects
cannot

avail themselves of the permis-

sion, so far as other nations are concerned.
Those natibns have a right to look to the declarations as authentic evidence of the understanding of the Spanish and Portuguese governments,
as to the law of nations.
But suppose they can avail themselves of the
permission to trade in slaves within the limits
prescribed by the treaties. The onus .probandi
is thrown upon them to bring themsa.Ives within
those limits. This they have failed to do by satisfactory evidence.
And eveil if the law was in their favour, and
they had shown the trade in which they were engaged to be within the limits permitted by the
treaties, such a general claim could not be given
in by the Consuls of Spain and Portugal for their
fellow subjects. The Court has a right to the
oath of the individual, owners, as to their proprietary interest, and to- explain the other circumstances of the case. As to the Portuguese claim,
the owners are still unknown, and it is impossible that restitution can be made to the Consul, or
even to his government, merely upon evidence
that the Africans were taken from a vessel sailing. under the Portuguese flag jnd papers, without any specific proof of the individual proprietary'interest.
Lastly: if some of these Africans were the
property of the claimants, some were not; and,
failing to identify their own, they are not entitled

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to restitution of any as slaves, since among
them may be included some who are enfitled to

1825.

wasThe
their freedom. The proof, by lot, which
substituted by the Court below for ordinary legal
proof, is not satisfactory, especially where a claim
to freedom conflicts with a claim to property.

Mr. Berrien, for the respondents, stated, that
a reference to the transcript would show, that of'
all the parties to this cause in the Court below,
the United States, and the Spanish and Portuguese Vice-Consuls, ate alone before this
Court; and that the United States, acquiescing in all the residue of the decree, have appealed
from only so much as. directs restitution to the
Spanish and Pdrtigqise Vice-Counsuls.
The allowance of-these- claims is resisted on
various grounds.
One prominent proposition pervades the whole.
of the opposite argument. Unless we can. meet
and rbsist it, we must submit to be its viQtims.
It asserts, that the United States have acquired
the possession of these negroes lawfully, without
wrong , that with the -possession so acquired,
they have incurred the obligation to protect-them;
that all-presumptions are in favorem Zibertatis;
and, whatever the laws of other couintries may
tolerate or ordain, having ourselves declared the
slave trade to be contrary to the principles-of humanity and justice, we are bound,yrimafack,
to hold that there can be no property in. a human
being.
Vol,. X.i

Antelopq

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

This proposition suggests the following inqui-

Tries
The
Antelope.

1. : Was the possession lawfully acquired?
2. If so, does the right which is asserted necessarily follow ?
S. With a view to their own peculiar condition, can the United States exercise such a
power?
1, The lawfulness of the nossession will be
determined by considering the capacity of the
seizing officer to make the seizure, in connexion.
with the liability of the thing seized.
The seizure was made by John Jackson, commander of the revenue cutter Dallas, belonging
to the District of Georgia; and was made off the
coast of Florida, while that wvas yet a province
of Spain. The right of Captain Jackson musthave resulted from the authority given by his
commission, and the laws of the United States.,
It did not result fr6in the act of'1799, providing for the establishment of revenue. cutters ;
for this only authorizes themi to' board vessels on
the coasts of their respective Districts, or within
four leagues thereof; nor from the acts forbidding the slave trade, for these are directed only
against vessels of the United States, or foreign
vessels intending to violate our laws by introducing
negroes into the United States. The President
is, indeed, authorized to employ the armed vessels of the United States, to cruise on the coasts
of the United States, or territories' tLreof, or of
a The Louis, 2 Dodson's Rep. 238.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Africa, or elsewhere, and to instruct them to 1825.
bring in all vessels found contravening those
States can
acts. But the laws of the United
operate only on American vessels, on American
citizens on board of foreign vessels, or on such
vessels within the limits and jurisdiction of the
United States. Begides, it is not pretended, that
the revenue cutter Dallas had been selected as a
cruising vessel under these acts, or that Captain
Jackson had received any instructions from the
President of the United States. Neither can the
seizor derive any aid from the acts to preserve
the neutral relations of the United States; for
although the Courts of the United States will restore property taken in violation of 'these acts,
when it is found within their jurisdiction, yet they
do not authorize the cruisers of the United States
to rove the 6cean in search of objects on which
-that jurisdiction maybe exercised.
So far, then, as it depends on the official character of the seizor, the act was lawless.
The thing seized was a Spanish vessel, in the
possession of persons, some of whom were Ameican citizens, who had captured it jure belli,
inder the flag of Artegas, or of Venezuela, .and
in a vessel which had been fitted out, or whose
armament had been increased, in the United
States.
The right to seize for a violation of the acts
to preserve the neutral relations of the United
States, has been already spoken of; but the adverse argument considers these captors as pirates,
and asserts the right of every indiviual to war

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

against them as enemies of the human race.
The answer is,
The Ant-tlope.
(1.) The seizure by Captain Jackson was not
made on that ground. The libel alleges the
seizure to have been made for a violation of the
act of 1818, prohibiting the slave trade.
(2.) The Courts of the United States have declined to decide, that such an aci would amount
to piracy.
(3.) To put himself in a situation to make this
seizure, Captain Jackson abandoned the duty enjoined upon him by his commission, and the'laws
of the United States, by leaving the limits intrusted to his vigilance. If he had lost his vessel, could he have justified himself 'before a
Court Martial ?
(4.) But if these men were pirates, and lawfullybrought in, then the Spanish property was, from
the moment of its introduction, finder the protection .of the ninth article of the treaty of San Lorenzo el Real.
Neither have the United States acquired any
rights to enforce against these foreigners their
own speculative notions on this subject, in consequence of their being actors. All parties are
actors in a Court of aamiralty, and these parties
only became so after their property had been
taken.into the custody of the Marshal, and at
the suit of the United States. But they were
entitled, under the treaty, to have restitution of
their property, without being .put to ether proof,
than that it was foind in their possession.
2. If the possession had been lawfully aequi1825.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

red, could the Court refuse restitution on the 1825.
The Antelope.
ground suggested
The great case on this subject, is that of the
Louis ;' our adversaries agree to refer the ques-

tion to its decision.
It is a singular nristake, to suppose that Sir W.
Scott directed restitution solely on the ground of
the unlawfulness of the seizure; -and thence to.
infer, that if the seizure bad -been lawful, he
would have condemned. On the contrary, admitting-the lawfulness of the. seizure, he decides
expressly that restitution, mmtvt notwithstanding
be awarded.
3. With a view to their own peculiar situatibn,
could the United States maintain the doctrines
contended for ? It is said, that, having prcmul gated- our policy in relation to this subject, we
have thereby given a warning to slave traders,
which they are bound to respect ;-apledge to the
rest of the world which we are bound .to redeem.
But what is this policy, which we have thus nbtifled to the world ? Ifis to.be found in our laws, inhibiting the slave trade. The penalties of these
are denounced against our own vessels, and bur
own citizens, who shall engage in this trafic anjr
where; and against foreigners and their vessels,
who pursue it for the purpose of introducing negroes ito the United States. There is no warning to the subjects of Spain and'Portugal, quietly
pursuing this traffic under the sanction of their
.own laws.
a 2-Dodaon'* Rep. 243. 249. 264.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
"

The Antelope

The notion of the pledge is equally visionary.
I find it difficult to form a conception of a pledge,
iNhich the party making it can at any time ca-

priciously recall ; and yet no one doubts that an
act of the "American Congress can, at at any moment, throw open the slave trade.
These considerations apart, would it become
the United States to assume to themselves the
character of censors of the morals of the world
on this subject ?-to realize the-lofty conception
of the adverse counsel, and consider themselves
as the ministers of heaven, called to wipe out
from among the nations the stain of this imiquity ? Might not the foreign claimant thus rebuke
them, in the strong language of truth? For
more than thirty years you were slave traders ;
you are still extensively slave. owners. If the
slave trade be robbery, you were robbers, and
are yet clinging to your plunder. For more than
twenty years this -traffic was protected by your
constitution, exempted from the whole force of
your legislative power; its fruits yet lay at the
foundation of that compact. The principle by
which you continue to enjoy them, is protected
by that constitution, forms a basis for your representatives, is infused into your laws, and mingles
itself with all the sources of authority. Relieve
yourselves from these. absirdities, before you assume the right of sitting in judgment on the morality of other nations. But this you cannot do.
Paradoxical as it may appear, they constitute the
very bond of your union. The shield of your
constitution protects them from your touch.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

We have no pretence, then, to enforce against 1825.
others our own peculiar iotions of morality. The Antelope.
The standard of morality,, by which ,Courts of
justice must be guided, is that which the law-prescribes.
The learned counser here proceeded to examine the evidence of proprietary interest, and insisfed that '(besides the other testimony) the official interposition of Ithe Portuguese governmentsupplied the place of proof of individual interest,
and established the legality of' the traffic.'
•The objection to the decree of tlie Circuit
Court, on -the ground that the distribution of
the negroes was directed to'be made bylot, was
answered by the following considerations:
1. It appearing that the negroes found on.'

board the Antelope consisted, of three distinct
parcels, taken from American, Spanish, and Portuguese vessels, the obligation to protect the former, was equal to, and not greater than, .that
which required the restoration of the latter. The
capture by Smith b6ing considered, as in the
argument of. our adversaries it is considered, as
piratical, the right of the Spanish claimant to
restoration under the treaty, was the primary
right, as founded on the treaty, which is the supreme-law; and -in the fair construction of that
treaty, -it extended to every thing found on board
the Spanish vessel. Then the proof which should
diminish that-right, was to be fur"'shed by those
who sought to diminish it.
a The Louis, 2 Dqd8on' Rep. 249.
b The Bello Corrnes, 6 Wh7eat. Rep. 152.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

2. It being. ascertained that these negroes
property, they were liable to distribution as
other property; and, notwithstanding the asser-

Swere
The Antelope.

tion to the contrary, the lot is often and legally
resorted to, to separate undivided interests.
3. As between the Spanish and Portuguese
claimants, no question on this point ran arise
here, because they have not appealed.
4. The United States cannot question this part
of the decree, because they have not only not
appealed from it, but have actually proceeded to
enforce it ex parte, and have received restitution
by lot of the negroes. taken from the American
vessel.
The United States have, then, derived no right
to refuse restitution, from the manner in which
they have acquired possession.
They are not entitled, by law, or the stipulations. of treaty, to apply their speculative notions
of morality to the subjects of Spain and Portugal.
They have ill-grounded pretensions in reference to this ill-fated subject, to set themselves
up as the moral censors of the civilized world.
Here is evidence of a proprietary interest to satisfy the mind beyond a reasonable doubt, and it
is wholly uncontradicted; and the passport of
the King of Spain, and the iterposition of the
government of Portugal, show, if there be any
necessity for it, the legality of the traffiq, as to
their respective subjects.
On what ground, then, is restitution refused

OF THE UNITED STATES.

It is said, the slave trade is unlawful, contrary 1825.
to the principles of justice and humanity; anda
so nefarious
that no right can be derived from
traffic.
Our inquiry is, by what law, which this Court
is competent to enforce, is it inhibited?
1. Is it contrary to the law of nations ?
2. Is it contrary to the laws of the'sovereigns
of the claimants; and can this Court refuse restitution-for that cause ?
3. Is it c6ntrary to the laws of the United
States; and can those laws be enforced against
these claimants ?
1. What is the slave trade, considered as a subject on which the law of nations can operate.
Slavery exists, and has from all time existed, in
AfriCa, and in many other countries. Where it
exists, there will, of course, be an interior traffic
in slaves, which the law of nations cannot touch.
It is only on the transportation of, negroes betwveen two countries mutually tolerating slavery,
that this operation is contended for. But this
transportation is but an incident to the original
sifi of slavery. If humanity nerves the arm of
the law, why is its force spent on the incident ?
Why is it powerless in relation to the principal
wrong ?
If the traffic in slaves be considered as increasing the number of victims, by affording a
market for them, what is it then but an aggression
by the subjects of one nation on the rights of
another? *If the nation forbids'it, the offender
is punished by the municipal law; -if the nation
VoL. X.

CASES

1&25.

N THE SUPREME COURT

permits it, she herself becomes the aggressor.
uIneither case, how does it concern other naTke law of nations may be defined to be a collection of rules deduced from natural reason, as
that is interpreted by those who adopt them, and
resting in usage, or established by compact, for

regulating the intercourse of nations with each
other.

Rights and obligations are interior between
sovereign and people, and are regulated by the
mauicipal law; or exterior, between nations
considered as moral persons ; and these are regulated by the Law of nations.
Now the slave trade is not contrary to the natural law of nations, because, until recently, it
was unversaIly tolerated and encouraged. It is

aot contrary to the posiive law of nations;- because them is no general compact inhibiting it;
and nothing is more certain, than that the usage,
or compact, even of a majority of nationsi, cannot

produexigtp or obligations a1~ong others.

To

what other evidences oi the law of nations can
we resort, except those of usage and compact;

the former interpreting the rules of natural reaso% thelatter stipulating those of-positive instiFrom thi general view it would seem, that the
4ave trade is untouched by the lw of nations.

We us reader our inqmnr-es more'partieular.
is this trafl considered. to. b contrary to the
ILW Of nafions, by th agesmen and jurists of
Bwqpe and America ?

OF THE UAMTED STATES.

We are all aware of the conferences of the 1825.
European powers on this subject, at Vienna, at
Aix la Chapelle. and at London. But all the efforts of Great Britain to have it so denounced,

were ineffectual.

The marginal refelrences point

to the answers of the several powers respecively,
and to the note and the answer of Lord Caslreagk; and all of them distinctly show, that the in-

hibiting of this traffic finds no place nithe code of
international law.The repofts of VA ious committees of Congress
in the United States, also clearly prove, that, in
the view of American statesmen, this traffic is
not inhibited by the law of nations, since the object of them all is to devise means by which it
may be so inhuibited&
After all, these conferences are only valube
as evidence of opinion, since they could not er'. feet any change in the law of nations. On this
subject the opinion of Sir W. &conis distinc
expressed, in the case of the Leui."

Amongijaits, we find the judges of the K. B.
in EngJand, denying that the slave trade is contrmy to the law of nations.'
And the same doctrine is announced by Sir
W. &ot, -after the most-elaborate investigation,
in the case of the Louts.

a 4th Etpcwt Aftica

Insftat~ima

31, 32.
L (A.) p.
Af
b & .em~uixNote
c2 Dbdhm's Rqs. 2;,25S.
e 2 Domes Rex,. 210.

]6uia, 2L 21.

1-,2.

P

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
t

The only opposing cases are those of the Amediae
andfirst,
La June
And,
of the Eugenie.'
Amedie. It is most obvious,

that this case has not been considered by the
statesmen of Europe as establishing the doctrine
contended for. The conferences to which we
have just referred, look to a general compact
among nations, as the only mode by which this
traffic can be inhibited, and pyropose, by general
suiTrage, to declare it piracy, admitting, at tho
same time, that their views may be defeated by
the refusal of any one state. But if the British
niinistrv had so considered this case, they would
,most surely 'have availed themselves of it in
these conferences. That it was -not so viewed
by Sir W. Scbtt is most certain; or, bound as his
jiidicial, conscience was by the decision of the
Court of Appeals, h-e could not have pronounced
the opinion given in the case of the Louis. The
argument in the case of the Amedie, is founded
entirely on the effect of the British act of parliament. Before the passing of that act, the learned
Judge declares, that no Court in England could
have pronounced the slave trade to be illegal;
since, it is rrima facie illegal every where, and
on principles of universal law a claimant is not
entitled to be heard in any Court. We inquire,
1. If, before the enactment of the British act
of parliament, the slave trade was not forbidden, how that act could have changed the univera I .4cfW8' Rep. 240.

b 2. Mao'

Rep. 409.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sal law?

It is said, that that act, propriovigore, 1825.

rendered it, primafacie,illegal every where, ina legal existence.
capable abstractly of-having

Are these not mere caballistic terms, too occult
for the apprehension of a legal mind ?
Consider the operation ascribed to this act of
parliament. Jurisdiction, derived from place, is
confined to the territory of the sovereign, from
the person, to his own subjects; but here is an
act of the British parliament, which, according
to Sir Win. Grant, operates locally throughout
all space, and personally over every individual in
the various" communities of nations. Sir W.
Scott holds a doctrine directly opposite to this,
.in the cage so often cited.a It did not.arise from
the locality of the tribunal, for it was solemnly
held, in the case of the Maria,b (the Swedish
convoy,) that this could not influence its decisions.
2. By what rule, other than that of sit volo sic
iubeo- did the Master of the Rolls throw the burthen of proof on the claimants ? Ifis said, because the Aave trade is illegal, contrary to justice
and humanity, that human beings are not the
sibjects of property. The obvious answer is,
this is a petitio princ:ipi. It assumes the very
question, in controversy. The case admits, and
so the fact was, that up to the time when this
act was passed, with the exception of Amevica,
this traffic was every where lawful; that property
a 2 Dodson's Rep. 239.

b 1 Rob. Rep. 350.

Tbe ANe

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
T

was acquired by it. If at that time it had become
otherwise, the change must have been effected by
some positive act. The assertion that such an
act existed, was an affirmative proposition. He
who made it was bound t9 prove it. Such is the
opinion of Sir W. Scott, and of Sir J. MIntosh,
Nay, in the case of. La Jeune Eugenie, it is admitted, that a prohibitory..act of the country of
which . the claimant is a subject, must concur
with the general law of nations, to authorize the
forfeiture. Now, if the onus be on the claimant)
it is certainly not necessary for the libellant to
show a prohibitory act; all that in such case
is essential is, that the- claimant should fail to
prove a permissive one. The opinion of Sir W.
,cott, in relation to this case, will be found in
The Fortuna, The Diana,and The Louis."
3. How can even the rigid rule laid'down by
that Court be avaiiedof? The Court expressly.
decline to decide what will be the effect of the
proof, if made, declaring that a claimant, under
such circumstances, is not entitled to be heard
Of what avail, then, is the
in any Court.
proof?
4. I find a difficulty in understanding what
principles of the law of nations are not general
in their operation, and yet the inhi"ition of the
slave trade is said not to be one of the general
principles of that law.
5. The argument seems to me to be self-dea 2 Dodson's Rip. 242.

27 Eng. Parl.Deb. 253, 254.

b I'Dodson's Rep. 85.95. 2 Dodson's Rep. 210. 260.
c La Jeune Eug. 2 Mason's Rep. 409.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

structive: It admits, that this novel principle 1825,
cannot be enforced against the subjects of those rhe AnoeopO.
nations whose municipal regulations permit it.
One of iwo -things seems to follow. Either the
slave trade is not contrary to the law of nations,
or the municipal law may permit what the law of
nations forbids; Can any single nation control
the universal law? strike piracy from the law
of nations? or deprive a belligerent of the rights
of contraband, or of* blockade ? . The learned
Judge, in the ease of La Jeune Eugenie, thus
solves this difficulty. If a nation permits this
traffic, the wrong is confined to the.nation injured; and other nations are neither -bound nor*
permitted; to interfere. But the question recurs,
what is the consequence, if a nation inhibit it?
The offence must be against the power inhibiting, not,-surely, against other nations, who, ex con-.
cessis, had no power either to inhibit, or'to..permit. On this point, also, we are fortified by the
opinion of Sir W. Scott."
The cAse of the Amedie may, then, .we think,'
be considered as an experiment; a trial of the
legal intelligence of Europe and America, and
affords no safe guide for the decisions of this
tribunal.
It is obvious to remark, that the case of La
Jeune Eugenie is referred to by our adversaries
under.circumstances, of some singularity. The
principles advan~eid by the learned Judge, in delivering his opinion in that case, are. rmaintained
"-2 Dodson's Rep. 251.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

by our opponents, while they revolt from the
to which those principles conducted
Th Antelo. conclusion
him. What wre ask in this case, is precisely
what was done in the case of La Jeu-ne E,,geni4,
that the property should be restored to the consular agents of Spain and Portugal; and .yet that
very case is relied upon as an authority against
this concession.
The proposition, that the slave trade is inconsistent with the law of nations, is maintaiaed on
the .following, among other grounds, in the case
of La Jeune Eugenie :
1. Its accumulated wrongs, and conEequent
inconsistency 'with that code.
"It is of this traffic, in the aggregate of its
accumulated wrongs, that I would ask," (says
the learned Judge,) "if it can be consistent with
the law of nations ?"
To us, the inquiry seems to be vain and nugatory. The gravamen of the question is equally
applicable to any other act of-atrocity, and to
any other code of laws. Murder, robbery, &c.
&c. are attended with accumulated wrong.
They, too, are inconsistent with the principles of
justice and humanity, which lay at the foundation
of international law. Do the laws which forbid
these crimes, therefore, form part of that universal law? are they governed by it, or. punished
by it?
2. Again it is said, the law of nations is deduced from the general principles of right and
justice ; that whatever can be deduced from these
principles as applicable to nations, and to the
1825.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

97

nature of .moral obligation, exists theoretically in 1825.
eo
T
the law of nations,'and may be enforced.
by theThe Antelope%
gained
is
nothing
It seems- to us, that
first of these propositions. The principles of
right and justice, it is most certain, are capable
of being applied equally, to the law of nations,
and to the municipal law; to nations and to individuals. But the question here is, whether, in
their application to the concerns -of individuals§,
by the act of one or more nations, or of any num-.
ber less thair the whole, they do noi rather. constitute a part of the municipal law of the nations
applying thbm, than of the general law of nations ?
The second proposition appears to us to be too
broad. Without doubt, it is the right and duty
of every nation to prohibit crimes, and among
others this crime. It is entirely consistent with
moral obligation. that they should do so. "What
then? Is the act of a single.nation, fulfilling this
duty, less simply municipal, because the morality
of the act which it performs is of universal oligation, equally affecting all nations?
3. It is urged, moreover, that the slave trade
is in violation of some of the first principles
which ought to govern nations. The assertion
is unquestionable. But may not the same thing
be said of many acts, which are confissed y the
objects of municipal regulations alone? k urnggling often begins in 'perjury.. It is. piose -utedin violation* of the duty of the citizen. Its tendency is to corrupt the morals of the commv nity.
an
It sometimes eventuatps in murder. Is
Vde. X.

Is

CASES INI THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

offence cognizable by the law of nations as an in-

I
fraction
The Antelope.

of that law ?

For these reasons, we submit to the Court,
that restitution carlnot be refused on the ground
that the slave trade.is contrary. to the lav of nation's.
(2.) Is the traffic contrary to the laws of Spain
and Portugal; and can the Court enforce those
laws. by refusing restitution ?
1. The preceding argument, the decision in
the Louis, and even that of La Jeune Eugenie,
are referred to, to prove that, as to this p6int, the
burthen of proof is on, the appellants. They
must show a prohibitory act.
2. f the burthen of proof be with us, we have
furnished the evidence. The royal passport, and
the order of the Portuguese government, are aetisive on this point. The sanction of the colonial Governor was considered sufficient in the
case of the Diana.a
3. The laws of Spai and Portugal are merely
municipal, and, from th, very nature of their provisions, incapable of enforcement by the Courts
,of the United States.'
4. Each sovereign has a right to the forfeiture,
from the time of the commission of the act. He
has the right of remission, and of pardon. Espeeially he has a right to decide, in his own tribunals, on the conduct of his own subjects, in
relation-to his own laws.c A monarch, or a naa I Dddson's Rep. 95b 4th R port Afr. Inst. Abstfact ,.&c. 26.
c 2 Dodeon's RP. 256.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tion, stripped of these necessary attributes of 1825.
sovereignty, would cease to be sovereign. The
attempt by:-the United States to enforce these
laws would be.a usurpation.
(3.) Can this Court apply the laws -6f the Jnifed States to.thi.s claim of foreign subjects?
1. The question has been answered in the
preceding argument. The laws. of 'the United
tates are strictly municip.al, confined to citizens
of the. United States, to peksons committing
offences on hoaid yessels of the United' States,
t6 foreigners seeking to introduce negroes into
the United States. The claimants are not within
these provisions.
2. Thou'gh the law of the United States. hag
made this traffic piracy, it has not, therefore,"
made it an offence against the law of nations.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States is exclusive for the, punishment.of'this.
offence. Besides, no particular jzation can in:
crease or. di'minish the list of offences punishrble b' the law of nations."
Such,*in the opinion of the Judge of th6 High
Court of Admiralty in England, is the only legitimate operation of 'the British act of parliament
on this subjec.. Such; in the opini6n of Con.
gress, is the necessary limitatiQn of ours.
Mr..C. ,. Ingersoll,.on the same side, insisted,
a Rutherf.?88.491.
b 2 Dodson's Rep. 239.
c 'Ve Ayendiz, Note I..(A.) Report of.Committee of-thi
House of.R 1presentatives, I 84, 1825.

100
1825.
X-WV*M

The Arttlope

CASES IN TE

SUPREME COURT

that there was no evidence in the cause which
sustained the allegation, that this vesselwas found

hovering on the coasts of the United States when
she was seized; alid if it were* so, that would
furnish no- sufficient reason for refusing restitulion to the Spanish and Portuguese claimants,
who were unaffected by the misconduct, of the
piratical captors -of their property.6 Here. the
capturing vessel was illegally equipped in our
ports, and the libellarits .have established their
claim to the property in question .under the laws
of their, own country. The original capture was
iot only made in violation of our neutrality, but
was an act of piracy, and the duty of making
restitution becomes imperative under the treaty
with, Spain. It appears from the treaties and
edicts which have been referred to, that the slave
trade was then tolerated by, Spain and Portugal
south of the equator; and, consequently,. the
presumption is, that Africans, obtained within
the- permitted limits, are legitimately held ag
slayes. This presumption is as strong as that
which prevails in those States of the Union
Where slavery exists. None of the judicial decisions cited have gone the length of asserting,
that the nations who have prohibited the slave
trade can compel others to join in that prohibition. The case of the Amedie itself, as explain-,
ed by Sir W. Scott in the Diana, does not extend the principle by which the general prohibia The Josefa Segunda, 5 Wn7eat. Rep. 338.
b31 poc~eon's Rep. 98, 99.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tion is to be enforced in the Courts of another 1825.
country, to the ease of claimants engaged iis the te.
trade -permitted by the..law of their own -country..
Is, then, the slave trade contrary to the.law of,
nations ?
That law is a.body of political ethics applied.
to nations. Not being reduced to - written code,
we must seek for it in the elemeftary writings of
publicists; in judicial pxecedents; and ingefie-.
ral usage and-practice.a Sir W. Scott ad.ds.to
these ample sources the more limited and apprbpriate standard of ancient and admitted practicq,
not.only by treaties, but by the laws, ordinanoes
and formal transactions of ci'vilized States.' 'te
great men who drew up the report upon the "Silesia loan, declare -the law of nations. to be
".founded on justice, equity, convenience,, and.
the reason of the thing, and confirmed by jong
usage."

As to the judicial precedents, they neutralize
each other, it, indeed, the authority of the original -case bf the ATedie be'not entirely- subverted by that of Madr zb v. Willes, and the admirable jtidgment.of Sir W. Scott in .the Lot
To the new conventional law which is now attempted to be. established in .the world, the Unite'd States have not yet become parties. We
cannot enforce the treaties'letween other powers, by which the African slave trade is dea United Stites v. Smith, 5 Wheat. Rtp. i60.

b UA Louis, 2 Aton'8 Rep. 249.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
'

noumced as contrary to humahity and justice, and
is prohibitbd to their subjects. No jurist has
heeti cited, from the earliest to the .bst

recent,

who has pronounced the trade contrary to thd

pasitwe law of nations.

So that the Court is

left entirely to the light of reason in determining the question whether it be contrary to the
law of nature, as properly applied to the conduct

of nations and states.
If this prohibition be a part of the law of nafions
it must b*- of the modem law of European-

nations.

Are the United States parties to that

Ilw? And if they are, can they enforce its penal

sauntions agains other nations not parties to it?
Many principles have been at various periods
asserted by eofederacies of nations, which have
ulfimately f&ied to obtain a place in tue general

code of nafions The Prineiples of the armed
neitrity of 1780, were maintained by nearly
all te powers of Europe agwns Great Britain
alone; and yet her doctrines have not iceased to

regulate the conduct of nations engaged in war.
It is, at least, doubtful which is the true law of
naions.

The supposed. _ionsiency

of the

slave tade with the law of nare, will not alone
oemn it in the view of a.Court of justice, so
as to authonza al aatiow. .o treat it as a cime,
o -a enfore ita.prebidon by the. confiscation
of the properLt of those engagedin it. It becoames all reeeting naen to thfitk seriauly, and
speak cautiously, on the subject of the iflegdlity of
atrae, Wic was once universlly participated in
by the civilized Aations of Europe and America.

OF THE UMTED STATE&

Ws fact is avowed by all the speakers on both 1325.
British that
sides of the abolition question:, in thehistory,
of notorious
matter
is
It
liament
both in ancint and modern Europe
tioh of slavery, and the commerce in slaves, ere
sanctioned by the universal practice, and law of
nations. Tie vely definition of slavery in the

civil Jaw, whieh has been copied by writer on
public law, shows,. that it was an istution etblished by positive law, against the law ofnatmre:
m,u quos
&ifrMw cit CNZmstiio jwris gefw]Z
The
szzkiadr?
mvftwaa,
domdnio a&e cwfra
old common law writers re fl of Ae subject
of villeinage, which, it is wel known, was not
abolished-in England until after the period when
the African slave trade commenced. The offence
of vagrancy was punished with slavery by the
statute, 1 Edw. VI. . 3. The fr't case relating
to the Afican slave trade, is that of Buds v.
Pewz, determined in the 29th- of CAaZes [L,
being trover for negroes. The special verdjt
found, that they were usually bon& and sold in
lndia.' ua subsequent case, trove wasVbmught
for a negro in England. Holt C. J. said, that
tre-asswas the kind of action, but that tow
Fa• vol. 1. p. 63.t.

G

'

iY._
Y=L -mu,
Ciz.aPre!~tiL 2. j 2. TYood's].C..
b Dwmzt,
Vi
J-,rof.
-Law.LIfx
-=d Cir.
Groha d . aP. C. 2. C_5..
-ad
i.Lw~~rs~.

j 27. Pujimd.b.S. 2 . i Rui~rj.b.i- r- p. 4. B~zk
QUest. JW. P. Li. r. s.p. 20. Du Pomeiu' Trajd.
c4 Reeve's ffist. Law, 451.
,42KCee. 7'8. 2,m. M0.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COU.T

104
1825.
'

would lie, " if the sale was in Virginia." Other
'cases turn upon questions as to the form of ac-

The Ante!ope.

tion, but they all concur in establishing the right

to this species of property. In 1689, all the Judges
of England, with the eminent men who then filled
the offices of Attorney and Solicitor General,
concurred in opinion, that negroes were 'J mer.chandise," within the general terms of the Navigation Act.b The famous case of Somerset,
whilst it determined that negroes could not be
held as slaves in England, recognised the existence of slavery in the colonies, as does the whole
legal policy, both of that country and of France.
The slave trade was long the subject of negotiations, treaties, and wars, between different European -States, all of which consider it as a lawful commerce. The very declarationg in the recent European Congresses, and the negotiations
between-Great Britain and the United States, all
show that the slave trade has not yet been prohibited by any thing like the unanimous consent
of'nations, so as to make it absolutely unlawful
in the view of a Court of the law of nations.
The United States have done all in their
power, consistently with their constitution, to
abolish the trade. But they have sought to abolish it by municipal means only. They have prohibited'it to their own citizens, not only by the ora'2 Salk. 666. 1 Lrd Raym. 146. 5 Mod. Rep' 185. Cartk.

596.
b 2 Chalmers' Opinion of Emine~it Lawyer8, 263.
c Cobbett's State Trials, vol. 20. p. .
d Varn. Ord.de la Mar. liv. 2. tit. 1. du Capitaine,art. 16.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

dinary penal sanctions of revenue and trade laws ; 1825.
and pu- T"but they have made it a criminal offence,
yet been ratified
has
treaty
No
piracy.
nished it as
with any ibreign power, by which they engage to
co-operate with the United States in the prohibition ; and yet the Court is called on to anticipate,
by judicial legislation, the exercise of the treaty
making power, and to refuse restitution to the
subjects of Spainand Portugal, of that which they
claim as their property, under the laws of their
own country. This property has been brought
into our jurisdiction in consequence of its having
been taken -from the possession of the original
owners, by armaments fitted out in our ports in
violation of our neutrality. The duty of restitution is therefore plain, under the laws and treaties of the Union, and the uniform decisions of
this Court.
The learned counsel also entered into a minute
and elaborate examination of 'the proofs of proprietary interest, and .eiterated many of the
grounds of argument insisted on by his associate. But as they have been already fully stated
in the report of Mr. Berrien's argument, it has
not been thdught necessary to repeat them.
The Attorney General, for the appellants, in
reply, answered the objection, that the only fuestion presented by the pleadings, on the part ofr
trade
the United States, was, whether this was .a
in breach of the Slave Trade Acts? He insisted,
that as the libels filed by the Spanish and Portuguese Consuls, demanded restitution upon the
Vol.. X.

14

CASES N THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
'n

ground of the illegal armament in our ports, and
-p United
the claim,
or defensive allegation, given in l.' TIe
States,
resisted that demand upon. two
specific grounds: 1st. That the Africans were
taken on board with intent to import the same,
&c.; and. MUy. That the vessel was found h]oxering on thsp coast with the. same persons -on board!;
if the. testim ony disclosed a case on which it
would be proper for the United States to interDose, which was not reached by the plea~dings,
tbe consequence would be, not that the docree&
should be affirmed. but that the cause would be,
remanded, with directions to amend. And,suaposing the United States to have made no case.
by their pleadings, the question was, have the
libellants made a case which justifies the.decree?
The Africans are parties to the cause, at least
such of them as are free ; and even if the other
parties. had colluded to make a case for restitution, they would still-have been entitled to the
protection-of the Court.
As to the seizure by the revenue cutter, he inFisted that it was justifiable under the Slave
Trade Act of the 2d of March, 1807, s. 7. which
forfeits " any ship or vessel found hovering on
tte coast of tie'United States, having on board
any negrp, mulato or person of colour, for the
prpose of selling them as slaves, or with intent
t'Jand the same in any port or place within the
This act
jurisdiction of the United States.'
character
national
the
as
to
no
distinction
tuade
of the ship, whether it belonged to citizens or
foreigners. So, also, the. act of the 15th of
Mav, 1820. c. 113. s. 5. makes the slave trade

OF THLE UNITED STATh"S

piray, where it is carried on by citizins of the
Ugited States. So that, whether we -egard the
predicament of the vend or of the Persos en-

gaged in the transaction, the seizur, was fully
warranted by the- laws applicable to the case.
Captain Jackson performed only an act of duty
the vessel for adjuin captdring and bningmn in.
dication.
The question, then, recursi what was the condition of the Africans thus brought in, as defined
by our laws; which must be the rde to guide the
determination of the Court. They are placed
under the protection of those laws, and are,prima faci , free. On whom, then, is the onus
pr&mmd tmLwn? Being here rightfully, they
are under the pirtection of our la*s ind Courts
of justice.. - No person can claim a right to take
them from the custody of the Court, and carry
them away into stavery, but those who can prove
them to be slaves; who can prove it, b. such
evidence as ought aloxte to be held sufficient in a
question of freedom or slavery. This view of
tid case settles the question of the burthen of
pror6f. He who would seek to disturb the appa-

ien4 rightful condition of things, assumes die
tmrthin of proving his own right.

This is fie

of&nay doctrine of the Couit of Admiralty,. if
L, seizure has been rightfd; and ihe.case--.,
p~md facie, a case fot- cotdemnation. The
omusj
6
is thrown uxpon.the claimant to
pftvt his property, and his right to resfitution.
Bnr, ih the present case, the- rule is peculiarly

arjlimhe, and the eleamness and fulness of thre

1825.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

proof ought. to be in proportion to the impor-

lieAnteope.tance

of the matter in controversy.

The case is

one of human liberty. The Africans stand before the Court as if brought up before it upon, a
habeas corpus. Suppose them here, on such a
process, asserting their freedom, and claiming
your protection; what kind of proof would you
exact rom those 'Who claim to hold them in
slavery? Most certainly you. would not demand
inferior evidence to that which you require in a
case of life or death. The witnesses must present themselves fairly before you. Their statements must be clear and consistent, and such-as
to command the confidence of the Court. They
must be sustained by the d6cumentary evidence;
and, ivhere any doubt is left, the decision should
be infavorem libertatis.
The claimants wish the Court to consider this
as a question exclusively between Spain on one
side, and the United States on the other, in which
these persons are to be considered as " effects,"
and "merchandise," taken by pirates, and as
such liable to restitution under -the stipulations
of the treaty of 1795.
But is the Court atliberty so to consider them, under the laws of our
own country? Some of them are confessedly
free, because the dedree has established the fact.
Which of them are slaves, it is impossible to determine .by any rule of evidence knownto our
practice. The claimants must prove their pro-perty ;and this involves the necessity of .proving
that these persofts )are property. They must
prove that they are property, and that they, are

OF THE UNITED STA'I'ES.

109

their property. Possession may be a sufficient 1825.
indiciun of property, in those places where the
Antelope.
. The"I"
local law makes a particular subject property.
The local laws of some of the States, generally
make persons of colour, primafacie,-slaves, and
throw the burthen of'pfoof upon them to show
the contrary. But even in those States, the
possession of a newly .imported .African would
not be evidence of property.
The question,
therefore, recurs, is it enough, to justifythe Court
in delivering up these persons to the parties for
whom they are claimed, to.show a possession on'
the-high seas ? Is the mere possession ofsuch
personsa sufficient- evidence of their s Iavefy to
justify it in restoring them as claimed ? -The
question is not whether the cruisers of the United States have a right to seize a Spanish slave
ship upon the high -seas, bring her in for adjudication, and throw the"burthen of prooff.of proprietary interest upon the claimants. Any such
right of interfereice with foreign states, iheir
subjects, or people, is discl.imed. But these
people are here, in the custody of the Court,
without any invas.ion of the sovereignty of foreign nations on our part ; for the piratical vessel,
which -took them out of other vessels sailing
under Spanish and Portuguese colours, was not
acting .under the authority, or upon the responsibility of the United States. They are brought
here by. a seizure authorized" by our own laws,
and perfectly consistent with the sovereignty and
independence of Spain .. and Portugal.
The
laws, under which they were seized and brought

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURr "

11U
1825.
v

The Antlope

in, declare -them to be entitled to their freedom.
Can the -Court surrender them -as slaves upon no

other proof than mere naked possession ? Is

the possession of Africans, on the coast of Africa,
sufficient evidence of title, per se, without connecting that possession with any law, international or municipal, to justify the Court .in taking
an active part in consigning to slavery these persons, thus placed under its protection ?
It is unnecessary for the United States to show,
that the possession was prima facie, wrongful.
The opposite parties, who call upon the active
aid of the Court to maintain that possession,
must prov, that it was rightful.
The real question, then, is,. whether the mere
possession, under such circumstances, is sufficient evidende of title, not as against the United
States, but as against these Africads? The Court
wil not shut their eyes to what is passing in the
world. Such a possession may be evidence of
title in some of the States of this Union, and ii
the European colonies. It might have been so
formerly on the coast of Africa. But it is not so
now, even under the municipal laws of Spain and
ortugal. Both of these powers have prohibited
the slave trade on the coast of Africa to the
north of the line, since 1815. It was prohibited
long before by the United States and Great Britain, on every part of the coast, and of the world.
It has been prohibited by France, Holland, and
all the: prineval maritime. states of Europe.
Under these rcumstances, it is impossiible for
thm Cout to v, that possession or the 66ait of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Africa is so habitually found in connexion with 1825.
1o0
to
right, under the municipal laws of the country
constitute prima
to
as
belongs,
vessel
which the
faci& evidence of property. The presumption
ought rather to be reversed. The natives of
Africa, however imperfecbt may be their civilization, compose an independent nation. By the
general-law of nations, they are -as free as the
Spaniards, or the Portuguese. Hence, it may beseen,) that the mere possession of an African,
claiming him as a slave, by a Spanish ship, dn
the coast of Africa:, would 'no more prove theAfrican a slave, than the possession of a Spaniard, by an African ship on the boast of Spain,
would prove the Spaniard a slave. The actual
possessor must, therefore, show some other right
than mere .possession. The Spaniard alleges,
that it has been the practice of the civilized- aid
christian nations of Europe, to make slaves of
the Africans for three centuries; and hence, that,
by the law of.nations, he has. a right to make
slaves of them. The African .opens the volumeof the law of nations, and shows, that the foundations of that code are laid in justice and humanity, and that no legitimate right can grow out of
a.violation of these principles. If he isanswer.
ed, that the trade had its origin in humane motiven,
he may well upbraid us for such a vindication. Nordoes the existence of slavery in the United:States
form- any excuse or palliation; for perpetuating,
and extending the guilt and misery of the slave
trade. Slavery was introduced among us, during
our colonial state, aginst the solemn remon-

.

112

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT'

1825.

strances of our legislative assemblies.
Free
.America did not introduce it. She led the way
Anteope.
measures for prohibiting the slave trade. The
S

revolution which made .us an independent nation,
found slaveiy existing among us. It is a calamity entailed upon us, by the commercial policy of
the parent country.a There is no nation. which
has a right to reproach us with the supposed inconsistency of our endeavouring to extirpate the
slave trade as carried on between Africa and
America, whilst at the same time we are compelled to tolerate the existence of domestic slavery
under our own municipal laws.
It may well be asked, whetker Africa is without
the pale of the law of Rations. Are not Afri.cans in their own country, under the protection
of that law.? Jf it be ans ,ered, that the condition
of slavery has existed from time immemorial,
growing out of the exercise of the rights of war,
a§ understood and practised in that barbarous
country, it may be replied, that those very wars
have been stimulated by the arts and avarice of
the slave traders. This fact is shown by the
most conclusive evidence, in the examinations
before the House of Commons in 1791. It appears also by the more recent reports of the
American *and British naval officers, and the
agents of the London African Institution, and
American Colonization Society. Unless, therefore, the slave traders can derive a right, founded
a Hargrave's Argument, in Somersett's case, 11 State Trial,
346.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1t3

upon wrong practised at their instigation, this 1825
The AntW
argument cannot avail them.
no support
derives
then,
Their possession,
from the law of nations. Supposing that by the
municipal law of Spain these persons are slaves,
whilst by your law they are free ; being brought
into this country without any trespass on the sovereign rights of Spain, is the Court bd'~d to restore them from comity? If the general law of
nations binds us to do this, it also binds us to deliver up persons charged with crimes, or even
with political offences, But this is a principle
which has been repudiated by all nations.a The
stipulation in the Spanish treaty, by which we are
bound to 'restore the ships and effects, or merchandise, of Spanish subjects, whtn captured
within our territorial, jurisdiction, or by pirates on
the high seas, does -not apply. These-Africans
are not "effects," or "1merchandise." To say
that they are so, is to beg the whole questio n in
controversy. The opinions of the twelve Judges
of England, and of the law officers of the Crown
in 1689, which have been cited to show that negroes
were considered as merchandise,within the terms
of the Navigation Act, only prove that they were
so considered at that time with reference to the.
British colonies, into which their importation was
then permitted. Even at that period, negroes in
England were not considered as merchandise, or
the objects of traffic, or liableto be held in servitude. Every thing must depend upon the law
a

State 7io.
$bmerset'- Case, iJ.

1%70L; X.

R.qq. 34$

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

114

1825.

prevailing at the time and place. By the law apto this case, these persons are free; they
~ plicable
annot, therefore,
be considered as merchandise

or effects within the treaty.
Mt. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the
opinion of the Court, and, after stating the
case, proceeded as follows:
In prosecuting this appeal. the United States
assert-no property in themselves. They appear
in the character of guardians, or next friend&, of
these Africans, who are brought, without any act
of their own, into the bosom of our country, insist on their right to freedom, and submit their
claim to the laws of the land, and to the tfibunals of the nation.
The Consuls of Spain and Portugal, respectively, demand these Africans as slaves, who
have, in the regular course of legitimate commerce, been acquired as property by the subjects
of their rdspective sovereigns, and claim their
restitution under the laws of the United States.
the
Howtrade
&r bs In examining claims of this momentous imporslave
ot tance; claims in which the sacred rights of liberty
=
law of natles.
and
i of property- come in conflict with each other;
and na
which have-drawn from the bar a degree6 of talent
and of eloquence, worthy of the questions that
have been discussed ; this Court must not yield to:
feelings which might seduce it from the path of
duty, and must obey the mandate of the law.
That the course of opinion on thL slave trade
should be unsettle'd, ought to excite no surprise.
The Christian and civilized nations of the world.
Mar&tlk.

OF THE UNTIVED STATES.

U15

with whom we have most intercourse, have all 1825.
been engaged in it. However abhorrent thisorighial feelings
traffic may be to a mind whose

are not blunted by familiarity with the practice,
it has been sanctioned in modem iimes by the
laws of all nations who possess distant Qolonies,
each of -whom has 'engaged in it as a common
commercial business which no 6iher could rightfully. interrupt. It has claimed all the sanction
which could be derived from long usage, and general acquiescence. That trade could not be considered as .contrary to the law of nations which
was authorized and protected by the laws of all
commercial nations; the right to carry on which
was colaimed by each, and allowed by each.
The course of unexamined bpinion, which was
founded on thisinveterate'usage, received its first
check in America ; and, as soon as these States
acquired the right of self-government, the traffic
was forbidden by most 6f them. In the beginning of this century, severil humane and enlightened individuils 'of Great Britain devoted themselves to the cause of the Africans; andi by frequent, appeals to the nation, in which the enormity of this.commerce was unveiled, and exposed
tb the public eye, the general sentiment was at
length roused against it anrd the feelings of justice and humanity, regaining their long lost ascendency, prevailed so far in the British parliament
as to obtain an act for its abolition. The utmost
efforts of the British government, ag well as of
that of the United States, have since been as-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
T
The

ee

siduously employed in its suppression.

It has

been denounced by both in terms of great seve-

Antelope.rity, and those concerned in it are subjected
to

the heaviest penalties which law can inflict. In
addition to these measures operating on their
own people, they have used all their influence to
bring other nations into the same system, and to
interdict this trade by the consent of all.
Public sentiment has. in both countries, kept
pace with the measures of government; and the
opinion is extensively, if not universally entertained, that this unhatural traffic ought to be suppressed. While its illegality is asserted by some
governments, but not admitted by all; while the
detestation in which it is held is growing daily,
and even those nations who tolerate it in fact,
almost disavow their own conduct,- and rather
connive at, than legalize, the acts of their subjects; it is not wonderful that public feeling
should 'march somewhat in advance of strict law,
and that opposite opinions should be entertained
on the precise cases in which dur own laws may
control and limit the practice of others. Indeed,
we ought not. to be surprised, if, on this. novel
series of cases, even Courts of-justice should, in
some instances, have carried the principle of suppression farther than a more deliberate consideration of the subject would justify.
The-Amedie, (1 Acton's Rep. 240.) which waa
an American vessel employed in the African
trade, was captured by a British cruiser, and condemned in the Vice Admiralty Court of Tortola.

OF THE UNITED STAtES

An appeal was prayed; and Sir William Grant, in
delivering the opinion of the Court, said, that the
and unlawful by
trade being then declared unjust

Gkeat Britain,." a claimant could hhve no right,
upon. principles of universal lkw, to claim restitution in a prize Court, of human beings carried as
his slaves. He must shovW some right that has
been violated by the capture, .some property of
which he has been dispossessed, and to which he
ought to be restored. In this case, the law*s of
the claimant's country allow of no right of property such As he claims. There can, therefore,
be so right.of restitution. The consequence is,
that the judgment must be affirmed."
The Fortuna(1 Dodsoi's Rep. 81.) was condemned on the authority of the A~hedie, and the
same principle was again affirmed.The Diana (1 Dodson'sZep. 95.) was a Swedish vessel, captured with a- cargo -of.slaves, by
a British cruiser, and condemned in the Court of
Vice Admiralty at Sierra Leone.. This sentence.
was reversed on appeal, and "Sir William Scott,
in -pronouncing the sentence. of reversal, said,
" the condemnation also took place .on a principle which this Court- cannot- in any manner recognise, i asmuch as the sentence affirms, ' that
the slave trade,.from motives of humanity, bath
been abolished.by most eivilized nations, and is
not,at t present time, legaly authorizedby any.'
This appears to me to be an assertion by no means
sustainable. 1 The ship and cargo were restored,
on the principle that the .trade was allowed by
the laws of Sweden.

117
1825.

118

1825.

CASES JN7THE SUPREME COURT

The principle common to these cases is, that
of the capture of a vessel engaged in
Sthe
.W ]Mgality
slave trade,

depends on the law of the coun-

tryto which the vessel belongs. IfthAtlaw gives
its sanction to the trade, restitution will be decreed; if that law prohibits it, the vessel and
cargo will be condemned as good prize..
This whole subject camq on afterwards to be
considered in the Lbuis, (2 Dodson's Rep. 238.)
The opinion of Sir William Scott, in that case,
demonstrat;s the attention he had bestowed upon
it, and gives full assurance that it may be con.
sidered as settling the-law in the British Courts
of Admiralty as far as it goes.
The Louis was a French vessel, captured on a
slaving voyage, before she had purchased any
slaves, brought into Sierra.Ledne, and condemned
by the Vice Admiralty Court at tht place. On
an appeal to the Court of Admiralty in England,
the sentence was reversed.
In the veryfull and elaborate opinion given on
this case, Sir 'William Scott, in explicit terms,
lays down the.broad principle, that the right of
searcJ is confined to a state of war. It is a right
strictly belligerent in its character, which can
never be exercised by a nation at peace, except
against professed pirates, who are the enemies,
of the human race. The act of trading in slaves,
however detestable, was not, he said, " the act of
freebooters, enemies of the human race, enouncing every'country, and ravaging every country, in its coasts and vessels, indiscriminately."
It was not piracy.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

119

HezAso said, that this trade could not be pro- 1825.
nounced contrary to the law of nations. " A
.. The Antelope.
Court, in the administrationiof law, cannot attribute criminality to an act where the law imputes
none. It must look to the legal standard of morality; and, upon a question- -ofthis nature, that
standard must be found in therlaw of nations, as
fxed and evidenced by general, and ancient, and
admitted practice, by treaties, and by the general.
tenor of the laws and ordinances, and the formal
transactions of civilized states; and, lookingto
those authorities, he found a difficulty in maintaining that the tsaction was legally criminaL"
The right of visitation and search being strictly
a bellierent right, -and the slave. tiade beingneither piratisM," tor contrary to the law of natiowi, the principle is asserted and maintained
with gre&t stvength of reasoning, that it-cannot
be execised on the vessels of :a foreIgn power,
unless pernitted by treaty. France had reffised
to assent to the insertion of such an article in er
treaty with Great Britai- and, consequently, the
right could not be exerci94on the high seas by a
British cruier on a French vessel.
"Itis pressed as a difficulty," says the Judge,
'wiatia to be doie, if a French shipiadenwith
slaves, is brought in ?" I answer, without hesitation, restore the possesion which has been unlawfilly devested ; rewind the-illegal. act done by'
- your own subject, and leave the -foreigner.to theius ce of his own co
n soryp.P
'Thiseasoning goesar m support of the pro,~

CASES -IN THE SUPREME COURT

120
1825.
'
The

Ainfeope.

-

position, that, in the British Courts of admiralty,
the vessel even of a nation which had forbidden

tle slave trade, but had not conceded the right of
search, must, if.wrongfully brought in, be restored
to the origihal owner. - But the Judge goes farther, and shows, that no evidence existed to prove
that France had, by law, forbidden .that trade.
Consequently, for this reason, as well as for that
previously assigned, the sentence of condemnation was reversed, and restitution awarded.
In-the United States, different opinions have
been entertained in the different Circuits and
Districts; and'the subject is now, for the first
time, before this Court.
The question, whether the slave trade is prohibited by the -law of nations has been seriously
propounded, and both the affirmative and negative of the proposition have been maintained
with equal earnestness.
That it is contrary to the law of nature will
scarcely be denied. That every man has a natural right to the fruits of his own labour, is generally admitted; and that no other person can
rightfully deprive him of those fruits, and appropriate themagainst his will, seems to be the necessary result of this admission. But from the
earliest, times war has existed, and war confers
rights in which all have acquiesced. Among the
most enlightened nations *of antiquity, one, of
these was, that. the victor might enslave the vanquished. This, which was the usage of all, could
not be pronotinced- repugnant to the law of naions, which is certainly to be tried by the test of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

neral usage. That which has received the assent

1

1825.

of all, must be the law of all. in force ; but as T,, Ateip.
its origin
Slavery, then, has

the world has agreed that it is a legitimate result
of force, the state of things which is thus produced by general consent, cannot be pronounced
unlawful.
Throughout Christendom, this harsh rule has
been exploded, and war is no longer considered
as giving a right to enslave caltives. But this triumph of huiianity has not been universal; The
parties to the modern law of nations do not propagate their principles by for.ce; and Africa has
not yet adopted them. Throughout the whole
extent of that immense continent, so far as we
know its history, it is still the law of nations that
prisoners are slaves. Can those who have themselves renounced this law, be permitted to participate in its effects by purchasing the beings who
are its victims ?
Whatever might -be the answer of a moralist
to this question, ajurist must search for its legal
solution* in those principles-of action whitlh are
sanctioned by the usages, the national acts, and
the general assent, of that portion of the world
of which lie considers himself as a, part, and to
whose law the appeal is made. If we resort to
this standard as the test of internationhl law, the
question, as has already been observed, is decided in favour of the legality of the trade. Both
Europe and America embarked in it; and fot
nearly two centuries, it was carried on .without
opposition, and without censure. A jurist could
VOL. X.

£6

72
T

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

not say, that a practice thus supported was ille,.V.gal, and that those engaged in it might be punished, either personally, or by deprivation of property.
In this commerce, thus. sanctioned by universal assent, every nation had an equal rigzht to engage. How is this right to be lost ? Each may
renounce it for its own people; but can this renunciation affect others ?
No principle of general law is more universally acknowledged, than the perfect equality of
nations. Russia and Geneva have equal rights.
It results from this equality, that no oie can rightfully impose a rule on another. Each legislates
for itself, but its legislation can operate on itself
alone. A right, then, which is vested in all by
the consent of all, can be devested only by consent; and this trade, in which all have participated, must remain lawful to those who cannot
be induced to relinquish it. As no nation can
prescribe a rule for others, none can make a law
of nations; and this traffic remains lawful to those
whose governments have not forbidden it.
If it is consistent with the law of nations, it
cannot in itself be piracy
It can be .made so
only by statute; and the obligation of the statute
cannot transcend the legislative power of the
state which may enact it.
If it be neither repugnant to the law of nations,
nor piracy, it is almost superfluous to say in this
Cburt, that the. right of bringing in for adjudication in time of peace, even where the vessel betongs to a nation which has prohibited the trade.

OF THE UNITED- STATES.

M

cannot exist. The Courts of no country execute 1825.
the course of TeA"
the penal laws of another; and
on the subject of visigovernment
the American
tation and search, would decide any ease in
which that right had been exercised by an American cruiser, on the vessel of a foreign nation,
not violating our municipal laws, against the captors.
It follows, that a foreign vessel engaged in the
African slave trade, captured on the high-seas in
time of. pehce, by an American cruiser, and
brought in for adjudication, would be restored.
The general question being disposed of,.it re
mains to exanine the circumstances of the par-r
ticular case.
The,.Spanish
• .belong- claim
The Antelope, a vessel unquestionabiy
ing to Spanish subjects, was captured while receiving a cargo of Africans on the:coast of Africa,
by the Arraganta, a privateer which was manned in Baltimore, and is said to .have been then
under the flag of the Oriental republic. So'm •
other vessels, said to be Portuguese, engaged in
the same traffic, were previously plundered, and
the slaves taken from them, as well as from another vessel then in the same port, were put on
board the Antelope, of which vessel the Arraganta took possession, landed her crew, and put
on board a prize master and prize crew. Both
vessels proceeded to the coast of Brazili where
the Arraganta was wrecked, and her captain and
'crew either lost'or made prisoners.
The Antelope, whose name, was changed to.
the General Ramirez, after an ineffectual attempt

124

CASES W. THE SUPREME COURT

1825. to sell the Africans on board at Surinam, arrived
.
off the coast of Florida, and was hovering on
The Antelope. that coast, near
that of the United States, for
several days. SulRposing her to be a pirate, or
a vessel wishing to smuggle slaves into the United States, Captain Jackson, of the revenue .cutter Dallas, went in quest of her, and finding her
laden with slaves, commanded by officers who
were citizens of the United States, with a crew
who 'spoke English, brought her in for adjudication.
She was libelled by the Vice Consuls of Spain
and Portugal, each of whom claim that portion
of the slaves which were conjectured to belong
to the subjects of their respective sovereigns ;
which claims are opposed by the United States
on behpLIf of the Africans.
On %whom
the
In the argument, the question on whom. the

.us

probanidi

io hrown inonus probandiis imposed, has been cosidered
hIlCae.
as. of great importance, and the teti,ny ad-

duced by the parties has been critically examinqd:
It is contended, that the Antelope, having been
wrongfully dispossessed of her slaves by American citizens,- and being now, together with her
cargo, in the power of the United States, ought
.tq be restored, without farther inquiry, to those
out of whose possession she was thus wrongfully
toaken. No proof of property, it is said, -ought
to be -required. Possession is in such a case evidence of property.
Conceding this as a general proposition, the
eounisel -for the. United States deny its application
to- this, case. A distinction is taken between

OF THE UNITED STATES.

12b

men, who are generally free, and goods, which 1825.
are always property. Although, with respect to The Antelopi
the last, possession may constitute the only proof
of property which is demandable, something
more is necessary where men are claimed. Some
proof should be exhibited that the possession
was legally. acquired. A distinction. has been
algo drawn .etween Africans unlawfully. taken
from the subjects of a foreign power by persons
acting under the authority of the United States,
and Africans first captured by a belligerent privateer, or by a pirate, and then brought rightfully
into the Uhited States, under a reasonable appre;
hension that a violation-of t.heir-laws was intended. Beihg rightfully in the possession of an
American Court, that Court, it is contended,
must be -governed by the laws of its own country; and the condition of these Africans must
depend on the laws of the United States, not on
the laws of Spain and Portugal.
Had the Arraganta been a regularly commissioned cruiser, which had committed no infraction
of the nqeutrality of the United States, her capture of the Antelope must have been. considered
as lawful, and no questi6n could have arisen respecting the rights of the okiginal claimants.
The question of prize or no prize belongs solely
to the Courts of the captor. •But, having violated
the neutrality of the United States, and having
entered our "pprrs,not voluntarily,' but under coercion, some difficujty exists respecting the extent. of the obligation to .restoTe, on the mere

CASES IN THE SUPREME C.OURT

proof of. former -possession, which is Imposed on
this government.
If, as is charged in the libels of both the ConThe Antelope.
suls, as well as of the United States, she was .a
pirate, hovering on the coast with intent to introduce slaves in. violation of the laws of the. United
States, our treaty requires that property rescued
from pirates shall be restored to, the Spanish
owner on his making proof of his property.
Whether the General .Ramirez, originally the
Antelope, is to be considered as the prize of a.
commissioned belligerent ship of war unlawfully
equipped in the United States, or as a pirate, it
seems proper to make some inquirr.into the title
of the-claimants.
In support of the Spanish claim, testimony is
produced, showing. the documents under which
the Antelope sailed from the Havana on thevoyage on -which she was captured ; that she. was
owned by a Spanish house of trade in that place ;
that she was employed in the business of purchasing slaves, and had purchased and taken on
board a considerable number, when: she was
seized as prize by the Arraganta.
Whether, on this proof, Africans brought into
the United States, under the various circumstances beibnging to this case, ought to be restored or not, is a question on which much difficulty has been felt. It is unnecessary to. state
the. reasons in support of the affirmative or negative answer to it, because the C6urt is divided on
it, and, consequeiltlyfno principle is settled. So
iluch of the decree of the Circuit Court as di1825.

'

OF THE UNITED STATES.

127'

rects restitution to the Spanish claimant of the 1825.
Africans found on board the Antelope when she The0Antelope.
is affirmed.
was captured by the A rraganta,

There is some difficulty in ascertaining their
number. The libel claims one hundred'and fifty
as belonging to Spanish subjects, and charges
that one hundred or more of these were on board
the Antelope. Grondona and Ximenes, Spanish
officers of the Antelope before her capture, both
dep.ose positively to the number of one hundred
and sixty-six. Some deduction, however, is to
be made from the weight of Grondona's testimony, because, he says, in one of his depositions, that he did not dount the slaves on the last
day when"some were brought on board, and adds,
that he had lost his papers, and spoke from memory, and from the information he had received
from others of the crew, after his arrival in the
Havana. Such of the crew as were examined,
concur with Grondona and Ximenes as to numbers.
The depositions of the Spanish witnesses on
this point, are opposed by those of John
Smith, the Captain of the General Ramirez, and
William Brunton, one.of the crew of the Arraganta, who was transferred to the Antelope.
John Smith deposes, that ninety-three Africans
were found on board the Antelope when captured, which he believes to have been Spanish
property. He also says, that one hundred and
e".Lhty-three were taken out of Portuguese vessels.
William Brunton deposes, that more slaves

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1225. were taken out of the Portuguese ship than were
_ Antelope..00 ",in any other, and that ninety odd were representTha
ed by the crew to have been on board the Antelope when she was captured.
If, to the positive testimony of these witnesses,
we add the inference to be drawn from the statement of the libel, and the improbability that so
large a number of Africans as are claimed could
have been procured, under the circumstances in
which the Antelope was placed, between the
13th, when she was liberated by the first pirate
who seized her, and the 23d, when she was finally
captured, we are rather disposed to think the
weight of testimony is in favour of the smaller
number. But supposing perfect equality in this
respect, the decision ought, we think, to be
against the claimant.
Whatever doubts may attend the question whether the Spanish claimants are entitled to restitution of all the Africans taken out of their possession with the Antelope, we cannot doubt the
propriety of demanding ample proof of the extent of that possession. Every legal principle
which requires the plaintiff to prove his claim in
any case, applies with full force- to this point-;
and no countervailing consideration exists. The
on= probandi, as to the number of Africans
which were on board when the vessel was captured, unquestionably lies on the Spanish libellants. Their proof is not satisfactory beyond
ninety-three. The individuals who compose this
number must be designated to the satisfaction of
the Circuit Court.

OX THE UNITED STATES.

We proceed next to consider the libel of the
Vice-Consul of Portugal.

129
1825.

It claims one hundred T"
.
The Antelope.

and thirty slaves, or more, " all of whom, as the

libellant is. informed and believes," are. the pro- gues claim.

perty of a subject or subjects of his Most Faithful
Majesty; and although " the rightful owners of
such slaves be not. at this time individually and
certainly known to the libellanti h6 hopes and
expects soon to discover them."
John Smith, and William Bgrunton, whose depositions have already been noticed; both state,
that several Africans were taken out of Portuguese vessels; but neither of them state the
means by 'which: they ascertained the national.
character of the vessels they had plundere4. It
does not appear that their opinions were founded
on any other fact than the flag under which the
vessels sailed. Grondona, also, states the plunder of a Portuguese vessel, lying in the same
port, and engaged in the same' raffid with the
Antelope when she was captured; but his testimony is entirely destitute of all those cixcufnstances which would enable us to say, that he had
any knowledge of the real character of the vessel, other than was derived from her flag. The
cause furnishes no testimony of any description,
other than these general declarations, that the
proprietors of the Africans now claimaed by the
Vice-Consul of Portugal, were the subjects of
is king; nor is there any. allusion to the individuals to whom they belong. These vessels
were plundered in March, 1820, and the libel
was filed in August of the same year, From
VOL_. X.

7

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

that time to this, a period of more than five
no subject of. the crown of Portugal has
years,
appeared
to assert his -title to this property,
no individual has been designated as its probable
owner. This inattention to a subject of so much
real interest, this total disregard of a valuable
property, is so contrary to the common course of
human action, as to justify serious suspicion that
the real owner dares not avow himself.
That Americans, and others, who cannot use
the flag of their own nation, carry on this criminal
and inhuman traffic under the flags of other countries, is a fact of such general notoriety,- that
Courts of admiralty may act upon it. It cannot
be necessary to take particular depositions, to
prov. a fact which is matter of general and public history. This long, and otherwise unaccountable absence, of any Portuguese claimant, furnishes irresistible testimony, that no such claimant exists, and that the real owner belongs to
some other nation, and feels the necessity of
concealment.
An attempt has been made to supply this defect
of testimony, by adducing a letter from the secretary to whose department the foreign relations
of Portugal are supposed to be intrusted, suggesting the means of transporting to Portugal
those slaves whidh may be in the possession of
the Vice-Consul, as the property of his fellow
subjects. Allow to this document all the effect
which can be claimedfor it, and it can do no
-more than supply the want of an express power

OF THE UNITED STATES.

from the owners of the slaves to receive them.. 1825.
as ascertaining the ownIt cannot be considered property.
their
lrovihg
ers, or as
The difficulty, then, is not diminished by- this
paper. These Africans still remain unclaimed.
by the owner, or by any person professing to
know the owner. They are rightfully taken from
American citizens, and placed in possession of
'the law. No property whatever.•in them is shoWn.
.It is- said, that possession, in a case of this description, is equivalent to property. Could this
b.e concqeded,who had the possession? From
whom were they t~keh by the Arraganta ?-. It is
not alleged that they are the property of the
crown,' but of some individuaL Who is .that individual ?. Nb such person is shown to exist, and
his existence, after such a. lapse of time, cannot
be presuned.
The libel, which- claims them for persoins.entitely unknown, alleges a state of things which
is pnma fac evidence of an intent to violate the
laws of the United. States, by the commission of
an act *which, accordir. to those laws, 6ntitles
these'men to" freedom. Nothihg whatever can
interpose to arrest the course of the law, but the
title of the real proprietor. No sitch title ap-.
pears, and every presumption is against its existence.
We thinlk, then, that all the Africans, now in
possessioA of the Marshal for the District of
Georgia, and -nder the control of the Circuit
Court of the United States for that District,
which were brought i with the Antelope, other-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
e

wise called the General Ramirez, except those
which
may be designated as the property of the
Spanish
claimants, ought to be delivered
up to

the United States, to be disposed of according
to law. So much of the sentence of the Circuit
Court as is contrary to this opinion, is to be reversed, and the residue affirmed.
This cause came on to be heard, &c.;
On consideration wheieof, this Court is of opinion, that there is error in so much of the sen!tence and 'decree of the said Circuit Court, as
directs the restitution to the Spanish claimant of
the Africans in the proceedings mentioned, in the
ratio which one hundred and sixty-six bears to
the whole number of those which remained alive
at the time of pronouncing the said decree; and
also in so much thereof, as directs restitution to
the Portuguese claimarft; and haf so much of
the said decree ought to be reversed, and it is
hereby reversed and annulled. And this Courf,
proceeding to give such decree as the said Circuit Court ought to have given, doth DIRECT -nd
ORDER, that the restitution to be made to the
Spanish claimant, shall be according to .the ratio
which ninety-three (instead of one hundred and
sixty-six) bears to the whole number, comprehending as well those originally on board the
Antelope, as'those which were put on board that
v'essel by the Captain of the Arraganta. After
making the apportionmqnt according to this ratio,
and deducting from the number the rateable
loss which must fall on the slaves to which the
Spanish claimants were originally entitled. the
DECREE.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

residue of the said ninety-three are to be deliver- 1825.
ed to the Spanish claimant, on the terms in the said
decree mentioned ; and all the remaining Afri- burgh.
cans are to be delivered to the United States, to
be -disposed of according to law; and the said
decree of the said Circuit Court is, in.all things
not contrary tb this decree, affirmed.

[INsTANCE COURT.

The PLATTSBURGH.

SLA VE TnADm AcTs.]

MARINO,

Claimant.

A question of fact under the. Slave Trade Acts, as to a vessel.
claimed by a Spanish subject, as having been engaged in"
the trade
under the laws of his own countiy, but proved to have been originally equipped in the United States for the voyage in question.
Under the Slave Trade Act of 17.4, c. 11. the forfeiture attaches
*here the original voyage is commenced in- the United States;
,whetherthe vessel belong to citizens or foreigners, and whether the
act'is done suojure, or by an agent for the:benefit of another person
who is not a citizen or resident of the United States.
Circumstances ;f a'pretended transfer to a Spanish subject, and
the commencement bf a.new voyage in a Spanish-port, held not be
sufficient to-break the continuity of the original adventure, and to
avoid the forfeiture.
It is not necessary, to incur the forfeiture under the Slave Trade
Acts, that the equipme.nts for the voyage should be completed. It is
sufficient, if any preparations are made for the unlawful purpose.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of New-York.
This was a seizure of the schooner Plattsburgh, otherwise called the Maria Gertrudes, on
.he Coast of Africa, made .by the United States
-hip of war, the Cyane, in the year 1820. The

