449

OF THE UNITED STATES.

said residue as has not already been paid to the 1825.
libellant, interest at the rate of six per centum
Day
per annum be allowed to the libellant, from the- v..
time of the present appeal until this present de- Ciisni.
cree shall be executed upon mandate by the Circuit Court, together with all the costs of suit on
the present as on the original appeal; and that
the said stip.ulation do stand as security therefor ;
4nd that the Circuit Court do award execution.
upon the said stipulation, for the amQunt of principal and interest so ordered, adjudged and decreed..

[COVENAZTr.

IDNY

PLEADiNGi-

and others v. CiHshr.

In a declaration upor) a covenant of warranty, it is necessary tu
allege substantially an-eviction by title paramount I but io fornia!
term's are prescribed in which the averment is to be made.
Where it was averred in such a declaration, " that the said 0. had
not a gp6d and sufficient title to the said tract of la.ad, and by reason thereof the said plaintiffs were ousted and dispossessed of the
said premises by due course of law," it was held sufficient as a substantiai averment of an eviction by title paramount.,
Where the plaintiffs declared.in covenant both as heirs and devisees,
without showing in particular how they were heir.;, and without
setting out the will, it was beld not to be fatal on general demurrer.
Such a defect may be amended under the 39-1 section of the JudiciarY
Act of 1789, c.20.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of
VO. X.

57

T

enne.:..

4ASES

450
1825.
Day

v.

chism.

Feb. 11th.
Feb. esd..

IN

IHE SUPREME COURT

This cause was argued by Mr. Bibb, for the
Splaintiff ii error, and by Mr. Eaton, for the defendant in error.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the
opinion of the Court.
This is an action of covenant brought by the
heirs and devisees of Nathaniel DRay, in the
Court for the Seventh Circuit, for the District of
Tennessee, on a covenant contained in a deed
from the defendant to the said Nathaniel Day,
purporting to convey a tract of land therein menThe declal'ation, which contains six
tioned.
counts, states the covenant in the fourth in the following words: That the said Obadiah Chism, the
defendant, "then and there, by the said indenture, covenanted and agreed with 'the said Nathaniel Day, his heirs and assigns, to warrant
and defend the title to the said premises against
the claim of all and every other person whatsoever, as his own proper right in fee simple." In
the fifth count, the covenant alleged is, "to warrant and defend the land against all and every
person whatever."
In some of' the counts, the only breach assigned is want of title in the defendant. The fourth
and fifth counts charge, that " the said Obadiah,
the defendant, hath not kept and .performed his
covenant so made-with the said Nathaniel aforesaid, with the said Nathaniel in his lifetime, nor
with the plaintiffs since his death, but hath broken
it, in this. that he hath not warranted and defend
d the title tG z ,t, premise. ,lf.'ribed in said co

u)F THE UNI'ID sTALE,.

venant, against all and every person whatsoever, 1825.
to said Nathaniel Day, his heirs and assigns ; and
v.
also in this, that the said Obadiah had no title to
of Chism.
state
the
in
vested
was
it
but
land,
of
tract
said
Tennessee; and the said plaintiffs aver, that by
reason of said want of title in said Obadiah, the
said Nathaniel, in his lifetime, and the plaintiffs
since his death, were unable to obtain possession'
thereof, or to derive any benefit therefrom ; and
also in this, that the said Obadiah had not a good
and sufficient title to the said tract of' land, and
by reason thereof, the said plaintiffs were ousted
and dispossessed of the said premises by due
course of law; and also in this, that the said
Obadiah had no title to the said premises, but the
same was in the state of North Carolina, by reasoi whereof the said Nathaniel, in his lifetime.
and th e.plaintiffs since his death, were and are
unable to obtain possession of the said premises.
The defendant demurred to the declaration.
and assigned for cause of demurrer, that, 1st.
"It does not appear in and by the said declaration, any averment or allegation therein, that the,
said plaintiffs have been evicted by a title paramount to the title of the defendant; and 2d. The
said declaration is, in other respects, defective.
uncertain, and informal."
The covenant stated in the declaration is, we
think, a covenant of warranty, and not a covenant of seisin, or that the vendor has title. In
an action on such a covenant, it is undoubtedly
necessary to allege, substantially, an eviction by
title paramount. but we do not ihink that any

452
13825.
1)7Y
v.
Chism

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

formal words are prescribed, in which this allegation is to be made. It is not necessary to say
in terms, that the plaintiff has been evicted by a
title paramount to that of the defendants. In
this case, we think such an eviction is averred
substantially. The plaintiffs aver, "that the said
Obadiah had not a good and sufficient title to the
said tract of land; and by reason thereof, the
said plaintiffs were ousted and dispossessed of
the said premises by due course of law'
This
averment, we think, contains all the facts which
constitute an eviction by title paramount. The
person who, from want of title, is dispossessed
and ousted by due, course of law, must, we think,
be evicted by title paramount.
We think, then, that the special cause assign-.
ed for the-demurrer will not sustain it.
There are other defects in the declaration,
which are sUpposed by the counsel for the defendants in error to be sufficient to support the
judgment. The plaintiffs claim both as heirs and
devisees, and do not show in particular how they
are heirs, nor do they set out the will.
It is undoubtedly true, that their title cannot be
in both characters, and that the will, if it passes
the estate differently from what it would pass at law,
defeats their title as heirs. But a man may devise lands to his heirs, and the statement that they
are his heirs, as well as his devisees, though not a
strictlz artificial mode of declaring,, is an error of
form and not of substance. Of the same character is, we think; the omission to state how the
plaintiffs are heirs, or to set out the will. Al-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

453

though in the case of Denham v. Stephen8on, 1825.
Day
Day
(1 Salk. 355. 6 Mod. 241.) the Court says,
V.
"that where H. sues as heir, he must show his
in his pro- chism.
lies
it
for
coment'heres,
ard
pedigree,
per knowledge," the Court does not say that the
omissioni to do this would be fatal on a general
demurrer, or that it is an error in substance. The
plaintiff must show bow he is heir on the trial;
and the 32d see. of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c.
20, applies, we think, to oniss ns of this description. The judgment may be given, "according
to the right of the cause, and matter in law," although the declaration may not show whether the
plaintiff is the son or brother of his ancestor, oir
may not set out the will at large. An averment
that he is the heir or the devisee, avers substan-:
tially a valid title, which it is incumbent on him
to prove at the trial.
-The declqkation presents another objection,
respecting which the Court has felt considerable
difficulty. In the same count. breaches are assigned which are directly repugnant -to each
other. The plaintiffs allege, that from the defeet of title in the vendor, .they have not been able
to obtain possession of the premises; ahd also
that they have been, dispossessed of those premises by due course of law. These averments
are in opposition .to each other. But the allegation that. possession has. never been obtained is
immaterial, because not a breach of the covenait, and, the majority of the Court is disposed
to think,. may be disregarded on a general demurrer.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

454
1825.
M'CDowell

V.

Peyton.

It is the opinion of the Court, that the fourth and
fifth counts, however informal, have substance
enough in them to be maintained against a general demurrer, and that th, judgment must be re-

versed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings. It will be in the power of the Circuit
Court to allow the parties to amend their pleadings.
Judgment reversed accordingly.

[LenAL L.w.]

M'DOWELL V. PEYTON

and others.

The following entry, " I. T. enters 10,000 acres of landJ, on part of a
treasury warrant, No. 079, to be laid off in one or more surveys,
lying between Stoner's fork and Hingston's fork, about six or seven
miles nearly northeast of Har od's lick, at two white-ash saplings
from one root, with the letter K marked on each of them, standing
at the foiks of a wet branch of Hingston's fork, on the east side of
the branch, then running a line from said ash saplings, south 45 degrees east, 1600 poles, thence extending from each end of this line
north 45 east, down the branch, until a line nearly parallel to the
beginning line thall include the quantity of vacant land, exclusive
of prior claims," is not a valid entry, there being no proof that the
" two white-ash saplings from one root, with the letter K marked on
each of them, standing at the forks of a west branch of Hingston's
fork," had acquired sufficient notoriety to constitute a valid call for
the beginning of an entry, without further aid than is afforded by
the information that the land lies between those forks.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Kentucky.
m. ,',t This cause was argued by Mr. Wicklife for

