uF THE UNITED1 STATES.

1625.
Janney
V.

Coi u~ibian
[I1VsURkcF-.J

JANNEY v.

The

COLUMBIAN INSURANCE COMPANY.

Under a policy containing the following clause: "It is declared and
understood, that if the above mentioned brig, after a regular survey, should be condemned for being unsound or rotten, the insurers
shall not be bound to pay the sum hereby insured, nor any part
thereof." •A sirvey by the Master and Wardens- of the port of
New-Orleans, which was obtained at the instance of the master,
who was also a part owner, and was transmitted by him tothe other
part owner, and by thie latter laid before the underwriters as
proof of the loss, stated, that the Wardens '1ordered one streak
of plank fore and aft to be'taen out, about three feet belbw the
bends on the starboard side-; and found the timber and bottomn
plank so much decayed, that we were unanimodsly of opinion her
repairs would cost more tlan she would be worth afterwards, and
that it would be for the interest of Allconcerned she should -be
condemned as unworthy of repair on that ground. We did, therefore, condemn her as not seaworthy, and as unworthy of-repair ;
and, therefore, according to the powers vested, by law in the Master
and Wardens of this port, 'wedo hereby order and direct the aforesaid damaged brig to be sold at public auction for the account of the
insurers thereof, or whomsoever the same may concern.' It was
held, that the survey was conclusive evidence, under the blause, to
discharge the insurers from their liability for the loss.
quare, How far the State Legislatures may authorize th condemnation of vessels as unseaworthy, by tribunals or boards constituted
under State authority, in the absence of any general regulation
made by Congress, under its power of regulating commerce, or as
a branch of the 4dmiralty jurisdiction?
However this may be, the above condemnation not being specially.authorized by any law of the State of Louisiana, it would not have
been considered as conclusive evidence within the clause, had not
the condemnltion been obtained by the master, as the agent of-the
owners, and afterwards adopted by them as proof of the facts stated
.herpin.

Ins. Cd.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
jhnY

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District
Sof Columbia.

bian'This wasan action brought in the Court below
Co. by the plaintiff in error, Janney, against the deis.
fendants in error, the Columbian Insurance Company, on a policy of insurance on the brig Hunter, Grinnolds, lost or not lost, from Alexandria
to Norfolk and New-Orleans; in which ,policy
there was the f6llowing clause: "It is declared
and understood, that -if the above mentioned
brig, after a regular survey, should be condemned
for'being unsound or rotten, the insurers shall
not be bound to pay the sum hereby insured, iqor
any part thereof."
On the first trial of the cause, the jury, not
agreeing on a verdict, was discharged; and, on
the second trial, a verdict was found for the defendants, under an instruction from the Court to
the following effect, as stated in the bill of e-xceptiQns :
And the plaintiff offered to prove, by parol evi-dence; that at the time that the said brig Hunter
sailed -from the port of Alexandria upon her voyage aforesaid, and at the time she was surveyed
and condemned at New-Orleans as herein after
mentioned; she was sound, and that the repairs
of vessels, and materials of ship-building, at that
place, were very high; and that the prices there
would have amounted to two or -three times as
much as the prices would have amounted to in the
port of Alexandria; and tlat.the repairs of the
said vessel, arising fron the injuries which, she

OF THE UNITED STATES.

had sustained in her voyage to New-Orleans, 1=.
would not have amounted to less, in that•place, \ Jam"
V.
than 2,000 dollars, independent of the detention Columbian
of the vessel, and the other necessary expenses Ins. co.

of the voyage. But the defendants produced,
andread in evidence to the jury, a regular sur-e
vey, called upon the state and condition of the
vessel on her arrival at New-Orleans, by ihe said
Capt. Grinnolds, master and part owner; and by
him transmitted to the plaintiff to be laid before
the insirance office as evidence of loss; and actually laid before such office by thc plaintiff accordingly; and, at the former trial, read on the
part of the plaintiff in evidence to the jury, in
the words-following:
."Port Wardens' Office,
New-Orleans,'13th January,1819.
"We, the subscribers, the Wardens- of this
port, having been'thereto required by Capt. Grinnolds, did repair on board the brig Hunter, commanded by him, and lately arrived from Norfolk,and, assisted by A. Seguin, carpenter, surveyed
her condition. Found twenty-five feet of quarter rail, and seventy-five feet of waist boards,
and the boat's david, carried aw ay ; the oakum of
the break of the quarter-deck started, and also
the strings and drifts; the cambouse .tove, and
its house carried away; the vessel was reported to
have leaked mu'1h at sea" All which, therefore,
according to. the powers vested by law .in -the

414

CASES IN THE. SUPREME COURT

Master and Wardens of this port, we do hereby
certify.
'%aW
JAMES RINKER,
•.
Columbiani
E. MARCHAND,
"(Signed,)
I=nsCo.
J. M. CARTANDE.
"A true copy of the records in this office,
1825.

"GEORGE

PObLOCK, Warden and Smretary."1

""Port Wardens' Office,
New-Orleans, 24th February,1819.
"We, the subscribers, Wardens of this port,
having been thereunt6 required by Captain Grinnolds to inspect the condition of the brig Ilunter,
commanded by said Captain Grinnolds, from
Norfolk, did repair to the ship-yards, and assisted by Andrew Seguin and Robert Fell, ship-carpenters, and for the greater satisfaction of said
master, by Captain Wayne of the ship.Ariadne,
and Captain Williams of the brig Maryland, surveyed her condition. We ordered one streak of
plank fQre .and aft to be taken out, about three
feot below the bends on the starboard side, and
f&und the timbers and bottom plank so much decayed, that we were unanimously of opinion her
repairs would cost more than she would-be worth
afterwards; and that it would be for the interest
of all concerned, she should be condemned ag
unworthy of repair on. that ground. We did;
therefore, condemn her as not seaworthy, and., as
unworthy of repair; and, therefore, according
to the powers vested by-law in the Master and
Wardens of this port, we do hereby order and
direct the afoiesaid damaged brig to be sold at

OF THE UNITED STATES.

416

public auction, for account of the insurers thereof, 1825.
or whomsoever the same may concern.
V.
"(Signed,)
JAMES RINKER,
E. MARCHAND,

J. M. CARTANDE."
"Port Wardens' Office,
Aew-Orleans,22d March, 1819.
"We, the subscribers, Wardens of this port,
do hereby certify, to whom it may concern, that
the goods mentioned in the annexed account of
sales, were sold at public auction, by our order
in our presence, by Dutillet & Sagony, commissioned auctioneers, after having been advertised
in due form of law; and that the said account
of sales is, in all'respects, just and-true.
"In testimony whereof, we have countersigned
the said account, and now grant this certificate
as the law directs.
EM. MARCHAND,
"(Signed,)
J. M. CARTANDE.
" A true copy of the records in this office,
" GEORGE POLLOCK, Warden and Secretary.
Whereupon the defendants prayed the opinion
of the Court, and their instruction to the jury,
that the said survey is conclusive evidence that
the said vessel was condemned for being unsound
or rotten; and that it is not competent for the
plaintiff to produce evidence inconsistent with
said survey, to prove that the said vessel was, in
fact, sound at the time of such survey; and that,
apon sueh evidence, the plaintiff is not Pntitled

Ins. Go.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

416
,
T.

to recover under the policy given in evidence in
this case ; and the Court so accordingly instru'cted the jury, and refused to suffer the said evi-

C04mbkn dence to be given to the jury.
LCo.

A verdict and judgment thereon having been

Fel. .th rendered for the defendants, the cagse was

brought by writ of error to this Court; and was argued by Mr. Swann for the plaintiff, and by Mr.
Jone for the defendants.
*VcI, .

Mr. Justice JOHNsoN delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This case varies somewhat in form, but nothing in principle, from the case of Dorr v. The
Pacifi Insurance Company, (7 Wheat. Rep.
582.) The material point of distinction is this;
in that case the discharge of the underwriters
was made to depend on a regular survey alone;
the stipulation was, " that if the vessel, upon a regular survey, shouldbe thereby declared unseaworthy by reason of her being unsound or rotten," the policy should b.e discharged. And
hence, although a condemnation in the Vice Admiralty Court of the Bahamas was produced in
evidence in that cause, the Court makes vo other
use of it, than as the means of authenticating tlhe
survey upon which the decree was made.
The terms of the present stipulation are these..:
" if the above mentioned brig; after a regu/qr
survey should be condemned for being unsound
or rotten," the insurers are to be disharged.
From which it is obvious, that both a reguklr

survey and a condemnation are in oontemplatin

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the parties. And the question is, whether the 1825.
bill of exceptions makes out the casus f&deris. Janney
v.
This gives rise to three questions: Was the Columb~ian
0
3.Co
survey regular ? was the condemnation conformable to the contract?, and does the one or the
other bring the case within'the terms ofthe stipulation ? With regard to the survey, the case is a
very clear one. -The laws 'of Louisiana contain
ample and judicious provisions on this subject.
The Iaster and Wardens of the Port of Orleana
are vested with varipus powers' and required to
keep an office and a book of record open to all
the world,; they possess in fact, some of the attributes of a municipal Court. With regard to
dantged vessels, and .vessels deemed unfit to
proceed to sea, they, or* any two of them, with
one or more skilful carpenters, are constituted
surveyors.; and the laws enjoin, "that they shall,
upon every such survey, certify under their hands,
how the vessels so surveyed appeared to them,
and shall cause entries to be made in a book to
be kept for that .purpose in their office.". A survey, therefore, made by them, pursuant to this
law, and at the call of the captain of this vessel,
was emphaticaly a regular survey.
The difficulty in the cause arises upon the
next member of the clause under consideration,
to wit, that which requires a condemnation. The
certificate of the survey purports, that there was,
in fact, acopdemnation of the vessel; but there is
nothing in the laws of Louisiana which vests the
power expressly in the Master and Wardens of
the Port to condemn a "vssel as unfit for sea or
VL. X.

53

4118

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

unworthy of repair. As to damaged merchanthe power is expressly given; but as to
Janney
ships, it appears to be exercised
as incidental to
Columnbiar;
Ins. Co. the surveying power. In other parts of the world,
it is very generally exercised as an incident to
the admiralty power; and the admiralty jurisdiction under our system, can only be exercised
under the laws of the United States.
These considerations are only thrown out to
preclude the supposition that the Court has not
had them in mind whilst considering this subject.
We do not mean to intimate that the. power is
one which cannot be exercised under municipal
regulations. On the contrary, there are many
reasons for maintaining that it may be so exercised until Congress may think proper to establish so-he general rule upon the subject, either
as one appertaining to trade and commerce, or
within the admiralty jurisdiction. If, therefore,
there bada been express provision on the subject
in the laws of Louisiand, or it had -been shown
to be recognised as a power known and habitually
exercised in that port, as an incident to the surveying power, we should have felt no difficulty
on this point. As it is, we must place our opinion on another ground, one, however, which is
also noticed in Dorr's case. It is this, that the
condemnation, such as it is, was obtained through
th.e instrumentality of the master, who, as such,
represented his employers, and who was, in fact,
in this instance, also a part bwner. In this condemnation he acquiesced, broke up the voyage,
and sold the vessel ; and the certificates now beSdise,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

419r

fore this Court were transmitted to the under-

1825.

writers, and actually in a former trial between
the same parties, made evidence to prove the
fact which they ascertain. It-is then too late

V.
Columbiatf

for the plaintiffs to dispute the validity .or.verity
of the act of condemnation. They have recognised the jurisdiction of the tribinal they appealed to, to obtain the survey, as sufficient also
to make the condemnation, and must be held to
abide hy it as such. All further and. other investigation in a more competept -tribunal, if there
was such, was rendered . impossible by their act.

It only remains, then, to determine, wheth6r
the facts ascertained by the .survey are such as
bring the case within the terms of ihe stipufation.
We are of opinion they are. It would -be
difficult to find a shade of difference in this respect, between the present case and that of Dorr.
The terms of this ceitificate are, "*we found the
timbers and bottom-plank so nuch decayed, that
we are unanimously of opinion her' repairs would
0,ost more than she would be worth afterwards;
and that it would be for the interest of all concerned she should be condemned as unworthy of
repairs on that ground. We did, therefore, conas not seaworthy, and as unworthy of
demn-her
repairs.' Now it cannot be questioned that the
condemnation here stated does not
ground'of
.stand single and unconnected with the estimated
cost of repairs. But does this vary the case ?
We are of opinion it does not, since the condemnation of a vessel, )n account of decay, can

Janney

Co.
Ins.

420

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

never, in its nature, stand single and unconnectwith the expense of repairs. It is the comJanno)
T.
mon place to which the question of condemnaColumnbiad
ns. Co. tion must always have reference. It.is hardly
possible to conceive a case where a survey would
be called in which a vessel might not be repaired or renovated, and still leave enough of the
hull -to maintain her identity. A state- of hopeless and absolute decay, therefore, is never in the
contemplation of the contract. And whether expressed or not, the consideration whether the
value when repaired would. exceed the expense,
invariably enters into the decision of surveyors
upon a question of seaworthiness.
As, tlen, her being decayed, so as to be unworthy of repairs, is equivalent to, and in fact
the technical meaning of unseaworthiness, we
are of opinion, that the certificate brings the case
Yithin the words of the stipulation.
It follows, that the Court were correct in refusing the evidence offered by the plaintiff.
1825.

Sed

Judgmeht affirmed.

