OF THE UNITED STA'TES.

367

case would not be changed, although the de- 1825.
fendant might, on any
M occasion, have supplieq, De Wolf
at the cost of H. & K, the wire from which the
v.
chains so manufactured were made," it is quite as Johnson.
free from objection as the preceding part of it,
since it stands upon piecisely the same principle.
Judgment affirmed, With costs.

[UsuRy.

Lax Loci CONTRACTUS.) I

DE WOLF V. J. JOHNSON,
BARRY,

R. M. JOHNSON,. W., T.

and .J. PRENTISS,

in a contract for the loan of money, the law of the place where the
contract is made is to govern ; and it i5 immaterial that the loan
was to.be secured by a mortgage on lands in another. State.
In such a case, the statutes of usury of the State where the cont'ract
was made, and notihose of the State where it is secured by mortgage, are to govern it, unless there be sofe other circumstance to
show, that the parties had in view the laws of-the latter State.
Although a contri.ct bp ussirious in its inception, a stibsequent agreement to free it from the taint of usury, will render it'valid.
The purchaser of an equity of redemption canmot set up usury as
a defence to a bill brought by the mortgagee for:a foreclosure, especially if the mortgagor has himself waived tht defence.
Under a usury law wvhich does not avoid the securities, but only forbids the taking'a greater'interest than six per centnm per annum, a'
Cosrt of equity will not refuse its ajd t9 recover the'principal.
A certificated bankrupt or insolvent. against whom no relier 6an he
had, is not amecessary 'party to a suit in equity; but if he be made
a defendant, he cannot be examined as a vitness in the cause, until
an order has been obtained upon motibo for that pnrpose.-

368

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court-of Kentucky.
This
'
was a bi!'j filed by the appellant, De
De Wolf
Wolf, in the Court below, on the 4th of SeptembV.
ber, 1818, for a foreclosure of a mortgage given
"hso'.
by Prentiss, one of the respondents, on the 7th
of July, 1817, to secure the repayment of the
sum of 62,000 dollars. The bill alleged,. that
the mortgagor had conveyed his equity of redemption to W. T. Barry, by a deed of trust
dated the 16th of March, 1818, describing the
lands as " all those tracts or parcels of land described and qontained in a deed of mdrtgage
from the said J. Prentiss to the said J. De Wolf,
dated the 7th of July, 1817 ' " " it being the intention and meaning hereof, that after the satisfaction of the debts set forth in said deeds, the
remainder of the property described in said
deeds," "shall be hereby conveyed." According to the provisions of the deed, Barry exposed
the premises for sale at public auction, on the
27th of May, 1818, ""stibject to the encumbrances
of any previous mortgage or deed of trust, particularly a mortgage deed to J. De Wolf, from J.
Prentiss, dated the 7th of July, 1817," " recorded in the clerk's office of the Fayette County
Court, and to which all persons wishing to purchase are referred for more. particular information. 1 At this sale, the property was purchased
by J. J.hnson and R. M. Johnson. Prentiss
filed no answer to the bill, and it-was taken pro
amfesso against him. .J. Johnson answered,
claiming as a bond fidei purchaser for a valuable
consideration, and setting up the defence of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

usury in the contract between Prentiss and the
appellant, De Wolf, and also denying ndtice of
the mortgage except by vague report, which re-

that
port was accompanied with the suggestion,

the mortgage was void, as being affected with
usury. Barry also answere d, admitting the conveyance to himself by Prentiss, in trust to sell,
which sale he had effected publicly, and in good
faith, before the bill filed; and in pursuance of
the sale had conveyed to the defendants, J.
and R. M. Johnson; and alleged, that he was
ignorant of -the claiinof the plaintiff, De Wolf.
except so far as that claim was recognised in the
deed..of trust; and also set up the defence of
usury betwoef the mortgagor and mortgagee.
The-other defendant, R. M. Johnson, answered,
recognising and adopting the answer- of J.. Johnson, and denying for himself all knowledge of
the*mortgage at the date of the conveyance to
Barry. He also averred, that he was a creditor
of Prentiss to the amount of nearly 500,000. dollars, for whicli he had no other security than the
assignment to Barry, through which he.derfved
title to the n~ortgaged . premises. The cause
went to hearing on the pleadings .and proofs, and
Prentiss was admitted as a witness' on the part
of the other defendants, subject to legal exceptions; but it .did not appear by the transcript of
the record, whetlker *thede~ree of the Court below was grouinded upon his testimony. It appeared by the other evidende in the cduse, that
the transaction origi nated in a loan made by De
Wolf to Prentiss, in the State of Rhodo. Island

369

18!5.
De Wolf"

V.
Johnsoir.

3 70

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

in the year 1815, the repayment of which was
DeWolffsecured by a mortgage upon the lands in Kentucky, which contraft was afterwards waived by
v.
Johnson. the parties, and a new contract entered into by
1825.

them in the State of Kentucky, in the year 18] 7.
The principal question of fact was, whether
either, or both of those contracts, was void, under
the usury laws of either of those States, and as
this question is fully considered in-the opinion of
this Court, it has not been thought necessary to
extract from the voluminous mass of testimony
in the Court below, the general result of the evidence as bearing upon it.
On the part of the appellants, it was. contended:
1. That the original contract of 1815, if usurious, was not void according to thb laws by which
it ought to be governed; the laws of Rhode Island not avoiding the contract, or the securities
given for .it, but only forfeiting one third of the
principal, and all the interest of the loan, as a
penalty to be recovered by information or action
of debt.
2. That the contract of 1817 was free from
the. taint of usury.
3. That if either, or both those contracts,
were usurious, the defendants, J. & R. M. Johnson, could not take advantage of the usury, not
only because they were not parties to the contract, but because, by the very terms-of the deed
of trust to Barry, under which they claim, they

OF THE UNITED STATES.

took the estate in controversy subject to-the prior 1825.
conveyarice to the appellant.•
De Wolf
De Wolf
V.

On the part of the respondents, it was in- Johnson.
sisted :
1. That the loan of 1815 was usurious and

void.
2. That the transaction of 1817 was a device
to secure the repayment of mQney.advanced on
an usurious agreenient.
3. That money advanced on an usurious agreement cannot be secured, and the payment enfor*ced in a Court of equity, at the instance of
the lender, by force of any after agreement of
the lender to relinquish th6 usury, and of the
borrower to repay the money lent.a
a Te act.of- Rhode Island of .1793,after prohibiting (s. '"
the contracting for more than six per centum per annum for ihe
loan of money, wares, goods, &c. provides, (s. 5.) t hat a syin
equal *to.one third part of the. principal, and all the interest of
every bond, mortgage, specialt7, agreement, contract, promise, or
assurance whatsoever, which shall be -made after the- passing ot.
this act, for thq payment of money, goos, wares, or other commsodities to be lent on usury, wherein or whereby there shall be
recerved, agreed for, gr taken, for the forbearance or giving day of
paymebt above the rate.of, interest expressed in the first section of
this act, shall be forfeited by the creditor, one half'of such forfeiture
fbr the use of the State, and the other half for the use of him, her,
or them, who will prosecute for the same. That the said forfeiture shall andmay be recovered by informatiozor action of debt, before any Court proper to try the same 5 that in the trial of every such
information or action, the bbrrower or hirer of the money, goods,
wares, or other commodities, on such usurious contract, shall be
admited .a legal witness, if n't interested in the event ofsuch prosecution ; provided, neveitheless, that all inrormrations and actions far
'he recovery of such forfeiture, shall be brought "and 'commenced

37 2

CASES IN THE SUPREME COTJRT

1825.

Mr. Jones and Mr. P. Hall, for the appellantj

, De -.Wgolf

argued, that contracts being to be governed by

V.

the laws of the country where they are made, as
to their nature, construction, and effect, the ori.7arI4A. ginal contract of 1815 was not within the
statute of Kentucky as to usury." The rate
d interest is governed by. the law of the country where the debt was contrkciced, and not according to that where the action is brought.'
That if there be no express reference to any
other place, -the law will intend that the contract
was to be executed where it was made, and have
a reference to the law of that State. Nor would
taking a: security- upon lands in another country,
vary the application of the rule. Thus, contracts made in England, secured by mortgage on
estates in the West-Indies, are construed by the
English law.c Sb, where the debt was contracted
Johnson.

within one year after such forfeiture ghall have accrued. Provided
further, that nothing in this-act shall extend to the letting of cattle,
or other usages of the like nature in practice amongst farmers, oir
maritime contracts amongst merchants, as bottomry, insurance, or
course of exchange, as bath been heretofore accustomed."
The act of Kentucky of 1798 prohibits the taking above the
rate of six per centum per annum as the interest 'for the loan of
money, wares, or merchandise, and declares, that " all bonds,
-tontracts, covenants, conveyances, or assurances, hereafter to be
made for any money or goods so to be lent, on which a higher in,terest is reserved or taken than is hereby allowed, shall be utterly

void-,'

a Or on Usury,

'R4. 4.

32. (d.) Blabchard v. Russell, 13 Mass.
Hicks v. Brown, 12 Johns. Rep. 142, 5 Day's Rep.

-322. - T WasMngton's Rep. 282. Van Reimsdyke v. Kane, I
Galis.Rep. 371. 4 Day'sRep. 96.
b 2 Johs. 1M. as. 365.

c De War v. Span, 3 Term Rep. 425

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in Ireland, and the security given in England, it 1825.
was held, that Irish interest should be allowcd.' •De Wolf
If the contract be not void by the laws of the
v.
country where it was made, it can never become Johnson.
so by being carried into another country to be
enfor'ced; 'if valid in the country where it was
made, it will be v.lid everywhere, unless some
reason of policy oppose its execution.' Usury is
only malum prohibitum, and independent of
statutory regulation, the parties may contract
for whatever rate of interest they please.c Unless
the statute of usury which 'applies to the case,
avoids the contract, the defendant cannot avail
himself of this ground of defence. Penal laws
are strictly local, and the statute of Rhode Island
is merely a penal law." The respondents; seeking to avail theriselves of usury in a contract
made in that Sfate must show that it would be ai
good defence there.' If the contract of 1815
were good under the law by which it ought to be
governed, it w.ould not be invalidated by the subsequent contract, even if that were void/ But the
contract of 1'817 was, in fact, free from usury, and
would have the effect of purifying the previous cona Champant v. Lord Ranelagh, 1Equ. Cas. Ar. 289.

b 3 D.di. 8ep. 370. note. Cotop. Rep.

341,

c 8 Wheat. Rep; 355.
d Scoville v. Can field, 14 Johns. leqp. 339. 4 Burr. Rep.
2251. 2 Mod. Rep. 307. Ord on Usuly, 194.
e Thoapsoh v. Ketchum, 8 Johns. Rep. 189. 3 Esp. N. P.

I163.

~f Swartwout

v. Payne, 19 Johns. Re1 . 294.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

374
1825.

tract from all taint.a Where usurious securities
destroyed by mutual consent, a promise
hy the borrower to repay the principal and legal
v.
JTohnsn. interest is binding." As to the sale of stock, if it
was fair an&b boua fide, and not with a view to
evade the statute, it would not invalidate the contract. As to the amount advanced in treasury
notes, they are to be put (n a footing with bank
notes, and if received in payment, are to be considered as cash., A tender in bank notes, if not
objected to, is good. The sum paid as 'rent is
not usurious, unless paid in consequence of a
previous corrupt agreement! A payment in the
nature of a penalty is not usurious. If there be
any usury at all in the new contract of 1817, it
has crept ihby mistake and miscalculation, and
that will not avoid it.' The testimony of Prentiss
to prove the alleged usury is 'inadmissible, bepause he is a party upon the record, is liable for
costs, is directly interested in the event of tho

'have.been
De Wolf

a Comynon Usury, 183-185.
b Ord' on Usury, 103. 3 Day's Rep. 350. 10 'Mass. Rep.
121.
Barnes v.,Headly, 2 Taunt. Rep. 184.
Chadburn v.
Waktts, 10 Mass Rr'p. 123.

c 3 Term Rep. 53.1.' 8 East's Rep. 307. Ord on. Usury. 76.
2 Dall.Rep. 92. Comyn on Usury, 10. 1 Esp. N. P. 40. 176.
d 3 Burr. Rep. 1516. 1 ?:urr. Rep. 452. 9 Johns. Rep. 120
e 3 Term. Rep. 554.

7 Johns. -Rep. 476.

508. 10 Mass. Rep. 284.
f Comyn in Usgry, 187.
101. 258.

7.Mod. Rep. 11.8.

19 Johns. Rep.

8 Mass. Rep.

10 Mdss. Rop." 121.. 4 Burr.2253.

g Cormyn on Usury, 72.
A' Ord on Usury, 37. 1 Camp. N. P. 149. 3 Wile. 390.
4Burr."2253. 9 Mass. Rep. 49. 1 Boy. , Pull. 149.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

375

suit, and is concluded by the decree. a And final- 1825.
ly, even if usury exist, and be ever so clearly De--Wolf
Wol
proved, the defendants, J. & R. M. Johnson, canV.
not take advantage-of it, since they purchased, Johnson.
subject to De Wolf's mortgage, which, if usurious, is not to be taken As absolutely void.b
Mr. Webster and Mr.. Bibb, contra, admitted
the.general rule as to the lex loci contractus, but
contended, that the present contract was niade
with a view to the laws of Kentucky, where the
borrower was domiciled, whbre the security was
giveim, and where the money was to be repaid. It
was an. exception to the rule, that where the
contract was made iii one country with a view
to the laws of another, the ztatutes of the latter
were to govern it.e This was founded upon the
game reason with the rule itself, L e. the intention-of the parties. Another exception is, where
the parties go from one country into another,
nad there make a contract with a. view to evade
the laws of the former. . So if it be .against the
public policy of the' country where performance
bf the contract is sought, to. enforce it, the rule
a Phil. Evid. 57 61, 62. 5 Johns. Ch. Ca8. 95. 14 Eaat's
Rep. 565. 10 Johni. Ra.. 95. 2 Wheat Rep. 193. note. 20
John. Rep. 142. 5 Eap. N. P. 155e 6 JVkeai. Rep. 109.
b Green v. Kemp., sMa.s. R,p. 515. 16 Mass.'R,, 96. 5
John.s. Ch. Rep. 122. 555. 10 Johns. Rep. 202; 15 Johns.
Rep. 55. 1 Taunt. 414. 9 MIafs. Rep. 48 "Bac. Abr. tit.
UsJury F. Bull. P. P. 224. 1 Johns. Ch.Rip. 158.
c Hu6er. Prietect. tom. 2. 1. 1. tit. 3. Robinson v. Bland. 2
Burr. 1077.

376

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
13e Wolf

'the

V.
Johnson.

does not apply.-

But, it was insisted, that by

law of Rhode-Island, where the original

void; and,
agreement was made, it was absolutely other
State
as such, could not be enforced in any
or country. But the statute of Kentucky, which
was the law properly applicable to the case,
not only prohibited the u'surious contract, but
absolutely avoided the securities. It. was well
settled, that any device, however specious,
by which illegal interest is reserved, would render the contract void.b Even a beneficial purchase' by the lender, or disadvantageous purchase by the borrower, will be considered within
the statutes of usury, if conbected with- a loan,
or treaty, or communication for a 19an'. So a
sale of goods, 'or stock, as a contrivance to evade
the usury laws, avoids the contract., And if the
lender, in part of his advance, give a bill. or notei
payable at a future day, and charges interest
from the date of the contract, it is usurious.' A
contract, void upon the ground of usury, cannot
be made good by a subsequent new agreement,
a 3 DaU. 374. note. Hargr. Co. Litt. 79 b. 44. note. 3
.4tk. 727. 1 Vern. 428.
b Cowp. 114. S Bos. 4,Pull. 154. Cro. Eliz, 27.
Chitty on B.ls. 94, 95.
c I Sch. itLef, 115. 182. 119. note
Bac. ,4br. Usury, (C.) 2. 1 Johns, Cas. 536. Co.wp. 796. 770.
Cro. Jac. 440.
d 2 DougL 735. Cowp. 793. 1._tk. 351. Bac. A4br. Usury,
eC.) 8, 9. 13 2 vez. 155. 7 Johns. R4p. 196. 3 Term Rep.
531-. 1 Bro. Ch. Rep. 149. 151. Esp. N. P.*1i. 4mbl.371.
1 Johns. CI. Rep. 537.
c 13 Johns. Rep. 40. '2 Johns. Ch. Rep. 192. 4 Tant. 81n
Bos.

4,Full. 144

uF THE UNITED STATES.

377

and if void in part, it is void in toto.a If the lend- 1825.
er of money, on an usurious contract, seeks to
enforce his securities in a Court of equity, the D *ol
securities will be declared void, and ordered to
be delivered up; and in this respect, the rule is
different, whererthe borrower hi inselfapplies to the
Court for relief, in which latter case he must pay,
or offer to pay, the principal and interest lawfully due, before lie is entitled to r.elief.' But it is
sufficient if a contract be prohibited by positive
law, for a C6urt of equity to refuse its aid in enforcing it, whether the securities given be expressly declared void or not. The other defendants, claiming to stand in the place of- Pr~ntiss,
as his assignees and crediiors, have a clear.legal
and equitable right to take advantage of the illegality of the 6on.tract made with him, and which
was attbmptedto be soeured by a mortgage upon
his property.
Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of M.rck
the Court.
This cause has been discussed very much at
large, and with a degree of talent, candour, and
research, very satisfactory to the Court. In proceeding to consider it, however, we think it advisable to deviate from the, order in which the
points were examined at the bar, and to pursue
them as they arise in the progress of the suit.
In the year 1818, the compl*ant filedhis bill in
a 4 Camp. N. P. 157. 8 Johns. Rep. 253.
b. 5 Jo'ns. Ch. Rep. 122.
VOL. X.

48

18th.

I ASES IN THE SUPREME ('OURT

the Circuit Court of the United States for Keii-

1825.
Dc

f

tucky, to obtain a foreclosure of a mortgage

given to secure the sum of sixty-two thousand
Jolinson. dollars, and bearing date July 7, 1817. The
v.

debt secured was payable-by instalments, only
one of which was due when the bill was filed,
but in the progress of the cause all the instalments falling due, they were all, by consent, admitted into the pleadings, as if introduced by supplemehtal bill.
The bill first sets out the mortgage and the
breach, and then proceeds to allege, that Prentiss, the mortgagor, had cotveyed his equity of
redemption to V. J. Barry, who had sold to
James Johnson and R. M. Johnson, the two latter of whom were then in possession.
Prentiss files no answer, and in due coursethe
bill, as to him, is ordered to be taken pro confesso. James Johnson files an answer, claiming.
as bona fide purchaser for a valuable consideration, and setting up the defence of usury in the contract between Prentiss and the complainant, and
putting the complainant generally upon his proof.
He also denies notice of De Wolf's mortgage,
otherwise than by vague report, which report, he
alleges, was accompanied with the suggestion,
that the mortgage to De Wolf was affected with
usury, and void.:
At a -subsequent day, Barry also answers, admitting the conveyance to himseltby Prentiss, in
trust to sell, which sale, he alleges, he had effected publicly, and in good faith, before the bill was
filed: and in pursuance of tuch sale, had con.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

379

veyed to the Johnsons. He further alleges, that 1825.
at the time of the execution of the deed of trust to De Wolf
V.
him, " he was ignorant of the complainant's claim,
Johnson.
the
in
recognised
is
except so far as, that claim
deed of trust," and also sets up the usury between the mortgagor and mortgagee, in avoidance of the mortgage.
R. M.. Johnson also files an answer, in which
he recognises and adopts the answer of James
Johnson, and further denies, altogether, knowledge of the'mortgage to De Wolf at the date of
the transfer to Barry. He then sets out, that he
is a creditor of Prentiss to the amount of near
500,000 dollars, for which he has no other security than the assignment to Barry, through which
he derives title to the mor.tgaged premises.
Upon this state of the pleadings, with a few
formal and immaterial additions, the parties went
into their proofs. And as the complainant. exhibited his mortgage in legal form, and with all the
evidence of authenticity required by law, it followed that the defendants were put upon their
proof to maintain the 'grounds on which they
sought to avoid it..
It was not contended, that in the immediate
contraat on which the bill was founded, chere was
any. usurious taint belonging to that transaction itself. The ground taken was usury in
a transaction anterior by two years, out of which
the mortgage in question drew its origin, and
from which the usurious taint was supposed to
be transmitted either directly- or incidentaIly.
ThI3 case proposed to. be established in proof'

380

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. was, that in the year 1815 there was a negotiation
b6 Wolf for a loan between these parties, the scene of
v.
which--was in Bristol, Rhode Island. That the
3chnson, sum to be loaned was 83,000 dollars, but which
sum in faot Was reduced below 80,000 dollars,
by means which they contended were resorted tQ
for the purpose of disguising the usurious inte.rest, to be retained by way of premium, or bonus,
or'imposition. That the interest, actually stipulated for was twelve ler cent., of which six per
cent, was reserved in a bond executed at the
time for 111,000 dollars, comprising compound
interest, there being no annual interest reserved.
The. other six per cent. was secured under the
aspect of,.a rent payable out of lands in Kentucky, for which Prentiss executed absolute conveyances, and De Wolf stipulated to reconvey
on the payment of the amount for which Frentiss gave his bond, and a suni annually, by. way
of rent, equal to six per cent. upon the 83,000
dollars; that is, the sum of 4,980 dollars.
This rent, it seemis, was paid the first year,
*together with an additional sum of 498 dollars,
added as interest and damages.
And a bill for the sum of 4,980 dollars was
drawn the second year by.De Wolf upon Prentiss, payable in Philadelphia,. but this was returned
utnder protest, and subsequently taken up by a bill
for -5,154 -dollars, endorsed by J. T. Meder, jun.
The evasion of the Atatute against usury, tupposed to. have been practised upon Prentiss in
making up the sum of 8S000 dollars, had relation to.three items. The first a sum of about

OF rHE UNITED STATES.

:32,000 dollars, admitted into the computation as
the price set upon fifteen shares of the Lexington
Manufacturing Establishment, tratisferred by De
Wolf to Prentiss.

$81

1825.
""Wi
,

The second, treasury notes gohnwn.

to the amount of 20,211 dollars 94 cents, received at par; and the third 30,802 dollars 73
cents, bills drawn upon Philadelphia also taken
at par. Upon these three items there was an
estimated loss sustained of about 3,400 dollars.
The contract of 1815- was unquestionably entered into .in the State of Rhode Island, and was
there reduced to writing; but had a view to Kentucky for its consummation. As it entered.into
the contra t that Prentiss should secure De Wolf
by a coriveyance of Kentucky land to a large
amount, two agents were employed and intrusted
by De Wolf; with the iecurities to .be passed to
Prentiss, and a power to draw upon him for the
money, to. he paid in Philadelphia; which Prentiss was *gu have the benefit of, upon complying
with the articles of his contract, purporting an
absolute conveyance of the.land. The place
where th:contract ofrepayment of the principal
on the part of Prentiss was to be fulfilled, appears
no farther than this, that' the bond is given to
pay generally, without regard to place, and the
money to be paid by way of rent, appears by the
subsequent acts of the parties respectiig" the
bills drawn for the'rent, to have been payable in
Philadelphia.
The contract of 1817, in which this mQrtgage
originated, was executed in Kentucky; and had
its inception in an intimation from Prentiss of a

3582

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. design to avail himself of the plea of usury.
this, De Wolf repaired to Kentucky, and
'Upon
Do Wolf
V. there instituted a new negotiation with Prentiss
Ahnw?2, personally, having for its-object to clear the
contract from all usurious.incidents, and to trike
security for the sum loaned,, at the legal interest
of Kentucky, which, as well as that of RhodeIsland, is six per cent. Accordingly, all the instruments of writing which appertained to the
old contract were surrendered mutually, arid -a
new mortgage .given to secure the balance now.
su d for; the original sum- having been reduced
by large actual payments to the sum for which
this. mortgage was given, ani which includes the
same premises conveyed under the prior contract.
*The defence set up rests upon the assumption'
that the new contract was- not purged of the
usury; or, rather, that the whole contract of
1815 was void, and could, therefore, form no
basis or consideration for the contract of 1817.
Or if not wholly void, it comprised several items
of an Usurious character, which ought to be
included in the new contract. Andhere two preliminary qqestions arose, the first of which was,
whether the lex loci of the contraict of 1815 was
Rhode-Island or Kentucky ? By the usury laws
of the latter, the contract, and'all the sQcuritiesgiven for it, are: void,, both for principal and interest. By the laws of the former, although it is
prohibited to take more than six per cent. interest, and a penalty imposed for the offeiice, the
act does.not render the contract void, certainly
not for the princioa slin. By the laws of Ken-

uF THE UNITED S'IATEl.

.383

it is supposed, that the principal debt being 1825.
abolished, there could be no
consideration to De Wolf
•
sustain the new contract; by the laws of RhodeV.
Island, that the reverse would be the effect, unless, Johnson.
as was contended in argument, that the simple
prohibition of such a contract, which"is express
in the Rhode-Island act, would affect it with the
character of an illegal contract, and, as such,
one which a Court of equity would not lend its
aid to carry into effect.
With regard to the locality of the contract of The law of
1815, we have no doubt, that it must be governed where
tract the con.wasl
by the law of Rhode-Island..
p'roof
made and
isto itgo.isl
" ' The
_
_ is .po- vern,
sitive that it was entered into there, and there iS that
mmaterial
the. loall
nothing that can raise a question but the circum-,wascrdtobe
byasestance of its making a part of the contract, that ,'ortgage an
it should be secured by conveyances-of Kentucy dther
State.
land. But the point is established, that the mere
taking of foreign security does not alter the locality. of the contract with regard to the legal interest. Taking foreign security does not necessarily draw after it the consequence that the contract is to be fulfilled where the security is taken.
The legal fulfilment of a contract of loan, on the
part of the borrower, is repayment of the-money,
and the secur.ty given is but the means of securing what he has contracted for, which, in the eye
of the law, is to pay where he borrows, unless
another place of payment be expressly designated
by the contracl. No tender would have been effectual to discharge the mortgagee, unless made
in Rhode. Island. On a bill to redeem. a Court
stucky,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

384

j225. calling the mortgagee to Kentucky in order to
receive a tender.
In the effort to sustain his defence under the
JohnOn. laws of Rhode-Island, the defendants have in-

"Dev Wolf

V

l.

the cause the examination of their
Prentiss, taken at the instance of
the ps themselves, and received in the Court below subject to legal exceptions. We are not informed
admissible.
whether the Court' below actually recognised it
as competent evidence, since the grounds on
wlich that Court dismissed the bill are not
spread upon the record. It is enough that it
does not appea-r to be rejected; we are now
called pon to pass an opinion upon it.
The onily grounds upon which an argument
A certifcaHow far th t.roduced into
rentis, oof co defendant,

evidence

or insolveft,nas been made in support of the admissibility
rnis'hv deposition, have been, that the com.against wbosn of.tiss'
no relief can
fact the
•lainant avers him to be insolvent; which Ilanan
be had, is not
a

necessary

in the cause goes also far to establish;
deposition. was taken before he Was
his
anined. inas-a
the and that
Witness
",ause, until an in reality niade a party by the service of a suborder has been
. principle
" on no
can his evidence be
.
But,
.
that pcena.
obtained
notion forupon
adjudged competent. It'is true, that cases occur
purpose.
in which certificated bankrupts are struck out of.a
..re(ord and made witnesses; but if this was a
case in which a motion to strike out could have
been sustained, the motion 'should have beeri
made, and the-party's name expunged from -the
record. On no principle could he be made a
witn.ess while lie was himself a party. He may
htrve .had little or no interest in the event of the
suit, except as to the costs; but still, while a party to the record, he could not be examined. We
but he testimony
.party;
'cannot be ex-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

know of no exception to this rule, whatever be

1825.

the Court in which the question occurs, except it

De Wolf

be in the administration of certain branches of
the admiralty jurisdiction. From the views that
we take of the case, however, we do not find it
necessary to inquire whether there is sufficient
evidence in the cause, after rejecting the.evidence
of Prentiss, to sustain the facts on which the defence rests. If, with the aid of that testimony,
the defence cannot be sustained; a. fortiori, it
cannot be without it. And here it may be proper to. premise, as was very correbtly remarked
in the argument, that there has not been, in fact,
any contrariety of opinion expressed by the counsel on the law of usury. Usury is a mortal. taint
wherever it exists, and no subterfuge shall be
permitted to conceal it from the. eye of the law;.
this. is the substance of all the eases, and they
only vary as they follow the detours through
which they lave bad to.pursue the- money lender.
But one difficulty presents itself here of no ordinary kind. It is not very easy to* dispovr how
the taint of Rhode-Island. usury can infuse itself
into the veins .of a Kentucky contract. The de-"
fence would not admit of a moment's reflection if
it rested on the direet effects which laws against
usury have upon.contracts. Whatever,sun~s may
have been deiived through the usurious contract
of 1815, to the contract of 1817, they'would not
affect the latter with usury, .unless introduced in
violation or evasion of the laws of Kentucky, for
the tyvo contracts are governed by laws that have
no connexion. But it -makes very little differVOL. X.

49

v.

N6
1825.
De' Wolf

•.
o~n.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

once in this case, since, if the contract of 1817
is, either in -whole or in part, unconscionable, this
Court would not lend its aid to execute it as far as
itwas unconscionable, and the argument goes to
show that it partakes of that character, because,
admitting that the law of Rhode-1land did not
render the contract of 1815 null and void for the
principal sum loaned, yet the sum exhibited in
that contract, -as principal, and so transmitted to
the latter contract, coritainad sundry items, which
it is contended, were passed upon Prentiss at a
great loss, and under circumstances calculated
to serve as a disguise to usury.
And first, as to the shares in the Lexington
Manufacturing Company; these were fifteen in
number, and appear to have been taken by Pren'tiss onaccount of the 83,000 dollars, about 2,000
dollars a share. The whole of which, there is
reason to think, was sunk in his hands, in the
general wreck of the adventure..
It cannot be denied, that this is a suspicious
item; it does not, in general, comport with a negotiation for a loan of money, that any thing
should enter into the views of the parties but
nioney, or those substitutes which, frpm their
approximation to money, circulate with corresponding, if not equal facility. Still, however,
like every other case, it is open to explanation,
and the question always is, whether it was or was
not a subterfuge to evade the laws against usury.
And, here it is to be pbserved, that it is not
every sale which, in a negotiation for a loan,
will taint the transaction with usury; for it may

OF THE UNITED STATES.

$97

comport perfectly with the general views of the 1825.
borrower to make such a purchase, or to take
v.
the article even in preference to money. I would so~m.
prowho
merchant
a
of
case
the
illustrate this by
poses to borrow a capital to adventure in trade,
and who, instead of money, receives an assortment, at a fair price, adapted to.tl'.; trade. There
would be no ground for attributhg to such a
transaction a design to evade the statute. But
in what *does the present case vary from that.?
Prentiss had embarked in a manufactory, of the
prospects of which he entertained the highest
hopes. He either believed, or endeavoured to
persuade others, that it would yield"fifty ler cent.
The De Wolfs had embarked, on his represerntations, 30,000 dollars in the enterprise. No experiments had been yet made from which. any
doubts could be excited, nor is there any proof
that the stock was falling. Under these circumstances, he proposes to take back. the shares if
he could procure money to complete the. establishment. The connexion between the actualloan, -and taking the*shares as part of thd loan,
was easy and natural, and the interest of twelve
per cent., with other incidental advantages held
out for the loan, may well be estimated as the actudinducement, without supposing that De Wolf
was conscious of passing this item upon Prentiss
at an inflated price. Prentiss had himself put a
value upon these shares but a short time before,
in the sale to De Wolf, at nearly the same price,
and De Wolf was either his .ddpe, or the shares
were resold at their valua, Prentiss's continuing

C8(ASES IN TiIE SUPREIL COURT

38 8

1925.
v.

confidence in their value. is positively deduced
from the efforts he made to complete, at every
hazard and sacrifice, the establishment to which

Johnson. those shares appertained. He
still thought it a.
profitable investment, and so hbd De Wolf'
thought it, or he would not have made so large an
investment without an atom of security but what
was to be found in his anticipations from the establishment itself. It i8 conclusive, that thiswas
no heterogeneous disconnected article forced into
the negotiation, but intimately connected with,
if not the primary object of, the loan ; that the
price, however inflated, was .that which both parties had, by previous u nequivocai acts, set upon
it ; and if it could be said to have a market value,
there is no evidence that it was above its market
-value ; and, finally, that it was an actual tran'sfer
of interest with a view to acquire the article, and
not merely to throw it upon the market in order
to raise money. It was a real transaction; and
not a subterfugc.
On the subject of the treasury notes and bills
drawn on Piiiladelphia, we can perceive nothing
usurious, or even tuconscionable, in this part of
the transaction. As to treasury notes, they were
thrown into circulation as money, and it is an
historical fact, that they were worth all they -purported to be worth, notwithstanding the casual
depreciation which the embarrhssments of the
country, and the scarcity of gold and silver, may
have produced ; and as to the bills on Philadelphia, we are induced to believe that payment in
that form was abenefi conferred on the borrower.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

39

From the well known course of trade between

1825.

Kentucky and• Philadelphia, it would scarcely

De Wolf

have been ,possible, at that time, or perhaps at
any time, to have suited them better in making a
payment of money intended to be transported to,
and'used in, Kentucky._ With regard to the
bills, it is in evidence, that there was no loss incurred ; and, on the treasury notes, not as much
as the transportation of gold and silver would
have cost, calculating all the incidents to actual
transportation. But what if these payments had
been made in Rhode-Island bank bills? Would
there have been a pretext of lurking usury in
such a payment? Yet who can doubt that the
payment Wvould have been less convenient than
that actually made? In all probability, with reference to gold And silver, and the exchange or
depreciation in Kentucky, the paper of RhodeIsland would have been equally, if not more disadvantageous. It is not on su6h vdgue and equivocal grounds, that Courts infer the presence of
usury. But there is one consideration with reference t% this part of the cause, which is conclusive. There is no evidence in the record that
these payments were in any way forced upon
Prentiss. On the contrary, for any thing that
appears in the evidenqe, it may have been, in both
instances, the payment of his own choice. In a
letter not long before the loom, he actually quotes
bills on Philadelphia- from four-to, six pel cent.
advance. Nothing of that chaffering apppars in
the cause, .which distinguishes all the cases in
which attempts are made to evade usury laws.

v.
Johnson

390

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
De Wolf

V.
Johnson.

at the moment of extorting extravagant profits on
the advance of money.

With regard to the two payments made by
way of rent, we have to remark, that there never

was any ppayment of interest for two years on
the 83,000 dollars, besides what was made in
that form; and had the payments been direct
and absolute, and confined to the sum of 4,890
dollars each, there dould. no question have been
raised respecting those payments. They would
have amounted only to the legal compensation
for the use of the money. With regard to the
secon d year, it is obvious, that as yet nothing has
been actually paid; but as it may be said to be
secured or acknowledged by another bill, we will
cbnsider both sums as paid. And then the only
exceptionable parts of the payment will be the
sum of 498 dollars, added to that actually paid
for the first year, and 174 dollars 30 cents added
to the bill drawn for the rent of the second year.
As to the cash, it is a simple allowance of interest upon a bill drawn for the 4,980 dollars, upon
its being returned and taken up by another, and
cannot be excepted to. And, as to the first, we
perceive in the transaction abuat the second payment, a sufficient explanation of the origin of the
addition made in that instance. As Prentiss acquiescedin haviz," a bill drawn for the second
year, payable in Philadelphia, we may reasonably conlude, that the agreement was to pay the
rent or interest, which ever it may be called, by
drawing, such a bill. If, then, such a bill was
drAwn, and returned for non-payment, it may

OF THE UNITED STATES.

afford an easy solution of the question upon what 1825.
De Wolf
principle that addition was made.
V.
But why. for so inconsiderable a sum, should
Johnson.
large
so
in
difficulties
with
ourselves
we perplex
a transaction? It could, at most, in common
with all the items we have been examining, have
furnished only a ground -for a deduction, certainly
not for dismissing the bill.. Nor should we have
proceeded to examine these items in detail, were
it not that the Court below will have to make a
decree.npon which it will be necessary to allow or
disallow these items. Nor, when it is considered
under what, circumstances this second -contract.
was entered into, would this Court, upon slight
grounds, be induced to open it.
The parties had previously entered into a contract avowedly usurious *ith rMlation to the interest reserved. The defendanit -intimates his in-.
tention to avail himself of the defence of usury,
and the patties sit down together for the sole and
exprmss purpose of purging it of all usurious
taint, and to arrange, a new contract respecting
the Pame loan which should be legally obligatory.
Is it, then, probable, that any deduction would
have been withheld, which, by being retained,
could affect the new contract with usury, or with
any of the incidents of usury ? Would De Wolf
have trusted himself again in the hands of Prentiss, by. mixing u any thing with this contract
on which a legal exception could be sustained ?
We think not.
But one of the counsel for the appellees has
placed the objeotion, to the complainant's right to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

392

relief on a more general ground than the receipt
De Wolf of usury, or the avoidance of the contract under
V., *statute.
He insists, that it is enough. for this
Johnson. Court to refuse its aid,-that the contract of 1815
How far aWas prohibited by law, although not avoided by
1825.

Court of equi-ty will lend its law.

That a Court of.equity will hot lend its aid to
bargain
an illegal or unconscionable
contract
ai is true. But
na
uo
where the ,
are t the argument carrids this principle rather too far
curities
avoided lyth
as applied to this case. The law of Rhode-Isllocal law.
and certainly forbids the contract of loan for a
greater interest than six per cent., and so far no
Court would lend its aid to recover such interest.
But the law goes no farther; it does not forbid
the contract of loan, nor preclude the recovery
of the principal under any circumstances. The
sanctions of that law are the loss of the interest,
and a penalty to the amount of the whole interest,
and one third of the principal if sued for within
a year. On what principle could this Court add
another to the penalties declared by the'law
itself ?
But the case does not rest here. The subseIn the present case, even
ifthe original quent legal contract of 1817, rescued the case
aid tO4

c
ou

contract were

void, the sub-from
squentto freewill
.
free
merit

the frowns of the law.

Courts of justice

the face off the
the door in
shut te
not
h penitent;
nth
ece
it from the ahd hence it has been debided, in a case very
taint of usury,
it va- analogo'us to the present, -that. although a conrendered
135.
tract be in its inception usurious, a subsequent
agreement to free it from the illegal incident shall
Campb. Rep. 165. note. 2
make it good. (1'
Taunt., Rep. 184.)
According to the views, then, which we have

OF THE UNITED STATES.

$93

exhibited of the case, -the principal sum of thg. 1895.
loan of 1815 was a subsisting debt at the'date i De Wolf
Y.
the contract .of 1817, and unaffected by any qg
Johnson.
itev'
several
the
in
for
the deductions contended
which we have considered. There was, then,.
good consideration for the contract of 1817, and
it is legally valid to 'the amount which it purpors
on the face of it.
-But, if it were otherwise, there are two views
of this subject, upon which the Court below ought
to have sustained the bill.
It is very, clear, that the Kentucky contract.
must. be considered as a new and substantiye
contract. It is governed by a distinct code of
laws from the Rhode-Island contract, and cannot
be affected by the taint of usury which might
have been transmitted to it. under some circumstances, had it taken place in Rhode-Island. It'
was, then, equivalent to a payment and reloan;
and no one can doubt, that money paid on an
usurious contract, is not recoverable back beyond
the amount of the usury paid.
ag,,e
the
anequityof
- - plea The
•
Again, it is perfectly established, •that
of usury, at least as far as to landed security, is remp"iOn
cannot set up.
Aeusury to
as 4abill
per~sonal and peculiar; and however -a third per-afince
mortby
the
atmay
be
larwl,
the
in
son, having an interest
gagee for a
fected incidentally by a usurious contract, he foreaoure.
cannot take advantage of the usury. Some exceptions' may. exist to this rule under bankrupt
systems, but they are statutory and peculiar.
Here, then, the case presents a third person,
the assignee of an equity of redemption, setting
up a defence, which, in one aspect, Prentiss himVoL. X.

53

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

394
1825.
De Wolf

V.
Johnson.

self cannot set up; and which, in another aspect,
De has not set up; but, on the contrary, under
t e state of the pleadings, must be supposed to
hve refused to set up, or have abandoned. These
views are independent of the effect of notice;
fr fof.the peculiar circumstances of the -notice in
thAs case.
It is true, the Johnsons deny the notice prior
t-the deed of trust. But previous notice is immaterial, since the notice with which the law
affects them, ig that which the deed to Barry, under which they claim, communicates to him as assignee. In the actual case,. the notice is peculiarly strong and pointed, since the only description of the lands in question, in the deed to Barry, is contained in a reference for description to
the mortgage to De Wolf, and the purpose is explicitly declared to give priority to that mortgage. Technically and morally, therefore, they
required no more than what should remain after satisfying De Wolf. But had they purchased
from Prenti~s, in the most- absolute and general
manner, and altogether without notice actual or
constructive, they still could have acquired no
more than the equity of redemption, and that
wruld not have transferred to them. the right of
availing themselves of the plea of usury. We
have examined the cases quoted to this point,
and are satisfied with'their application and correctness. It would, indeed,. be astonishing, were
t otherwise, for the contrary' rule, would hold
*:utno relief to the borrower; it would be only
transferring his money from the pocket- of the

OP THE UNITED STATES.

lender to the pocket of the holder of the equity
of redemption.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, that the
decree must be reversed, and the cause sent
back to have a decree of'foreclosure entered, and
carried into effect, according to the exigencies of
the case.

(LovTzar.1
BRENT

and others v.

DAvis,

The scheme of a lottery contained a stationary prize for the first
dirawn number en each of twelve days, during which the drawing was to continue, and the first drawn number on the tenth day
was to be entitled to 30,000 dollars, payable in part by three hundred tickets, from Nos. 501-to 800, inclusive. No. 625, o e of the
So tickets to be given in part payment of the said prize, was drawn
first on that day, and decided to be entitled to the prize bf 50,000
dollars. After the drawing for the day was concluded, the managers reversed this decision, and awarded The prize to No. 4,760,
which.uas drawn next toNo. 8.3, and had drawn a prize of twentyfive dollar; which they decreed to No. 623.
fn drawing the same lottery, it was discovered on the last day, that
thi wheel of blanks and prizes contained Qne blank less thart
ought t, have been put into it; and to remedy this'mistake an additional blank was thrown Lti.
In an action brought bytlie managers against a person who had purchased the whole lottery, for the purob-"se money, it-was held, that
these irregularities did not vitiate the drawing of the lottery, the
conduct of the managers having been boncafide,and the affirmance
of their acts not furnishing any inducement to the repetition of the
same mistake, nor any motive for misconduct of any description.
Qure, VWhether the ticket No. 6S, or No. 4,760, was entitled to
the prize of 80,000 dullar%

395

1825,
Brent
T.

Davis.

