OF THE I INITED zTATE'

1825.
Darby

ILoCAL LAW..

v
Mayer

DARBY'S Lessee v. MAYER and another.
qzurre," How 'far a. will of lands, duly proved and, recorded in one

. State, soas to be evidence in the Courts of that State, is thereby
rendered evidence in the Courts of another State, (provided,the
rebord on its face shows that it poiset ses all the solemnities required
by the laws of the State where the land lies,) under the 4ih art.
see. 1. bf the constitution.of the United States P
The local law of Maryland,'as to the effect-of evidence of the probate of a will of lands, in an actica of ejectment, is the same
wiith the common law.•
A duly certified copy of a will of.lands,'arid the probate thereof, in
the Orphan's Court of Maryland, is not evidence in an action or
ejbetment, of a devise of lands in Tennessee.

ERROR to the Circuit Court-. of West Tennessee.
This cause was -argued by Mr. Bibb and Mr. March

1.,!.

"

Iseacs for the Plainti in eiror, and by. Mr.
White and Mr. D. Hoffman for'the defendants in
error. But as the judgment turned only on a
single point, and does not finally dispose of the
cause, it has not been thought necessary to report
the argument.

Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of rarch 17th.
the Court.
This was an action of *ejectment, in which the.
present plaintiff was plaintiff in the Court below.
His tit.e is.
derived through a patent to one John
RIce, and sc.-, ,sive ronvovanpot, down to him
Vni X

4W
1025.
Darby
v.v.

Mayer.

( ASES IN THE SUPRI.ME COURT

.self, which it is immaterial to recapitulate, since
no question arises upon this part of the evidence.
of limitaThe defence set up was the statute
tions, and in order to bring himself within its provisions, the defendant received the patent under
whiph the plaintiff claims, as the patent for his own
land, and undertakes to connect himself with it.
This garb'rise to a variety of exceptions tdken by
the plaintiff to the evidence offered by the defendant for this purpose, to which the defendant replies, that should he have failed in estal*lishing a
connexion by a chain of title, he has complied
with the statute notwithstanding, by proving his
possession within the patent issued to Rice,
which, he contends, is all the connexion with a
patent which the law requires.
One of the grounds of exception made by the
plaintiff is, that the evidence of the defendant
proves his possession to be upon a tract of land
essentially different from that which the patent
covers. And not a little difficulty has existed on this
pat of the case, to understand the counsel when
discussing the question of identity. Mll this has
arisen from omitting to have the locus in quo established by a survey; an omission to which the
Court takes this opportunity to express its disapprobation. It is true, that the case upon this
bill of exceptions can -be disposed of without
such a survey, but great facility would have been
afforded by a survey, in understanding -the discussion, which, without it, was scailAy intelligible. It is very obvious, when we refer to the
patent to Rii.- inder which the plaintiff claims.

OF THE U.NJTED STATES.

and the entry to Ramsay through which the de- 1825.
fendant deduces title, both of which are made "a'br
parts of the bill of exceptions, that they do not
V.
describe the same land.

On the contrary, that

to Rice, calling for the entry to Ranisay as its
eastern boundary, must necessarily lie ,vithout it.
However, we are of opinion, th.t we are not
now at liberty to notice this inconsistency. The
bill of exceptions states, that the pisintiff proved
the defendant in possession of the -land granted
to Rice, and the defendant proved himself in
possession of the land entered to. Rhmsay, both
concurring in the fact that the land in the defendant's possession was.the land in controversy; from
which it certainly results that Rice held a patent
for Ramsay's entry. But the defendant having no
pAtent, the other has, of course, the legal estate
in him, which may bebarred by the defeudant's
possession, if he brings himself within the pro.visions of the statute.
In order to cdnnect 'himself with the patent,
the defendant proved a sale of the inchoate interest of John Rice to one Solomon Kitts, and
the next link inhis title depended upon the &il
of Solomon Kitts. To prove that Kitts devised
the land to ibe trustees through whotn defendant
made title, a copy and probate of the will of
Kitta was produced in evidence, duly certified
from the Orphan's Court of Baltimore c6unty,
Maryland, in which, it seems, the will had
been recently proved and recorded. This evidence was excepted to, but the Court overruled
The exception, and it went t6 the jury.

Mater

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT%

408

The question is, whether the evidence thus
' offered was legal evidence of a devise of land ?
'
'- Darby
The common law doctrine on this subject no
v.
MJayer.
-,R one contests; the ordinary's probate was no evidence of the execution of the will in ejectibent.
Er:ect,,r ,ie. Where the will itself was in existence, and could
produced, it was necessary to produce it;
ir
landsbe
il
when the will was lost, or could not be procured
to be produced. in evidence, secondary evidence
was necessarjly iesorted to, according to the nature of the case. But whateverproof was made,
was required to be made before'the Cpurt thit
tried the cause; the proof before the ordinary
being ex parte, and the heir at law having had
no opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses;
neither were the same solemnities required to
admit the will'to probate as were indispensable
to give it validity as a devise of real estate. At
first it -was a question of controyersy between
the common law and ecclesiastical Courts, whether a wi 1 . containing a devise of lands, should
not be precluded from probate, although containing a bequest of personalty also. And the question was one of serious import, since the comnon law Courts required the production of the
original, whereas the consequence of probate
was, that the original should be consigned to the
archives of the Court that proved it. This was
at length compromised, 'and the practice introduced of delivering out the will, whenneoessary,
upon security to return it.
Upon greneral principles, there is no qpestion,
tht lands in Tennessee must, in all respects, be
1825.

at

comnin

"

•

OF THE UNITED STATES.

469

subject to the land laws of Tennessee. Their 1825.
laws affecting devises, and the rules of their Darby
v.
Courts respecting evidence in ejectment, must
Mayer.
constitution
the
as
far
as
be the law of this case,
Fhelex loci
of the United States does not control the one,,, Sita goveins " to the
or the other.
If.
ff t of a deWith regard to the modification under which vise in one
country
of
in anothe right of devising may be exerciSed, there is I:,,ds
ther.
no question that the power of the State is unlimited; and wills of realty, wherever.executed,"
must conform .to the laws of Tennessee. -The
right of determining whether its laws have been
complied with in this respect, is a necessary result from the power of passing, those laws. But Qu:re, how
rrl pri, ipeis
in this respect, it has been supposed, that the anodified
by the
right of the States is in some measure controlled lovisions
of
te constituby that article of the constitution, which diclares ii, and law
tof the U. S. in
"that full faith and credit shdll be giveii in each
r)spectandto crethe
•. • •fith
State to the public acts, records, and judicial '"'.
gien to the
proceedings of every other State." And hence b,
!tt
e.,cords, and
that a will of lands duly recorded in one Statejudicial pro-

so as to be evidence in the Courts of. that State, ceedigs of
each State in
is rendered evidence thereby in the Court of every ee, "oher
of it,
other State, provided the record, on the face
shows that it possessed the solemnities required
by the laws of the State where the land lies.
As this is a question of some delicacy as it relates to devises of lands, the Court passes it over
at present, being induced to adopt, the opinion,
that the rule could not be applied to this case,
since the laws of Maryland do .not make the probate here offered- evidence in a land-cause in the
Courts of that State,

470

CASES IN THE SUPRIME COURT

That the law of Maryland, with regard to the
~evidence of a devise in ejectmerit, is the common
Darby
law of England, is clearly recognised in the case
v.
Mayer. of Smith's lessee v. Steele, (I Harrisand M'IHenry,
The J.ca1 419.) In that case, as in this, a copy of the will
law of Maryland,atoevi-and probate were offered in evidence, and was
dence of the
of a supported by proof of the loss of the original will
probate
w
ill ofla nds
'n
office of probates. Yet the whole aran
ej ec action
tm e n t , of15from the
the same with gument turns, not on the admission of the copy
the common
law of Eng- and probate per se, but whether admissible at all
to prove the existence and contents of the origiland.
1825,

nal will. And the Court declare, in permitting
it to be read in evidence to thejury, that they are
at liberty .o find for or against the original will,
not holding them bound from the production of
the probate to find for the plaintiffs. It is observable also in that case, that it is yielded in argument throughout, that the admission of the
probate could only be sustained on the idea, that
the acts of 1704 and 1715, now no more in
force, permitted the ordinary to take probate of
wills of laud. But it has been supposed, that
the Maryland law of probates of 1798, has, by
express enactment, tirade such probates evidence
in their own Courts. And had it bebn shown,
that such had been the established construction
of that law, and the practice of the.State Courts
under it, this Court would not have hesitated to
relinquish their.own views on the -correct construction to be given to that clause.
As it is, we must pursue the suggestions of our
own minds with iegard to the legal construction
of the act.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The clause alluded to is the 4th see. ch. 2. art. 1825.
3. of the act in question, and is in these words :
Darby
" An. attested copy, under the seal of offipe, of
v.
any will, testament, or codicil, recorded in any Mayer.
The ,ct of
office authorized to record the. same, shall be ad- Assembly
of
mitted in eyidence in any Court of law or equity, 1758,
'aly"'s. 4. ch.Of
' --t - .oes
provided that the execution of 'the original will 2not
extend to
Pr codicil be subject to be contested until a pro- Soa ,i;oflands
,s to make
bate bath been had according to this act."
thes
•
c o In
r .|IIptobate
SVe e v i It is true, that the generality of the terms in thedece
an
aion ofineject-

first lines of this clause is such as would, if un-mrtol ot.
restricted by the context, embrace wills bf lands.
It is also true, that the previous chapter. in the
same article prescribes the formalities necessary
to give validity to devises of real estate; it is
further true, that the previous sections of the second chapter indicate the means, and impose the
duty of delivering up wills of all descriptions to
the Register of the Court of Probates, for safe
keeping, after the death of the testator, and ,until
they shall be dernded by sprne person authorized
to demand them for the purpose of proving
them.
But it is equally true, that the act does not authorize the registering of any will without probate. Nor does it, in any one of its provisions,
relate to the probate of any wills, except wills of
goods and chattels.
The clause recited makes evidence of such
wills only as are recorded in the offices of Courts
authorized to record them. But when the power
of taking probate is expressly limited to the probate of wills of goods and chattels, we see not

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
- Darby
SV.

1ayer.

with what propriety the meaning of the clause in
question can be extended to wills of any other
description. The Orphan's Court may take probates of wills though they affect lands, provided
they also affect goods and chattels ; but the.will,
nevertheless, is conclusively established 'only as
to the personalty.
.Unless the words be explicit and imperative
to the contrary, the construction must necessarily
conform to the existing laws of the State on the
siubject of wills of real estate. And when the
power of taking probates is confined to wills of
personalty, we think the construction of the clause
recited must be limited by the context;

that there was
We
are, therefore, of opinion, hch.ull
i
-,,fnothing in the law of Maryland which could; u'ntie
pr.6.ite
of lands
a will
another der the constitutiori make the document offered
ill
snahdeeviedc. to prove this will per se evidence in a-land cause.
in an eij. Nor does there appear to exist any rule of law ifi
Inent for lawds
il Tennessee. Tennessee, which could make such a document
the laws
Wenitessvee
of By

good evidence under the laws 6f that State.
Since, therefore, the charge of the Court was
general in favour of the defendants, and the effect
ofeach particular piece of evidence'upo-h the minds
of the jury cannot be discriminated, this opinion
disposes of the whole cause.
The case presents several other, and very important questions, but the Court will at present
decline remarking on them.
Judgment reversed, anda venirefaciasdenovo
awarded.

