OF THE UNITED STATES.

1825.
[CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.

PaRACTICE.]

U. S. Bank
V.
.Halstead.

THE BANK OF THE UNITED'STATES V. HALSTEAD.
The act of assembly of Kentucky of the alst of December, 1321,
which prohibits the sale of property taken under executions for"'
less than three fourths of its appraised value, without the consent
of the owner, does not apply tp a venditioni exponas issued out of
the Circuit Court for:the District of Kentucky.
The laws of the United Sthtes authorize the Courts of the Uniori so
to alter the form of the process of execution used in the Supreme
Courts of the States in 1789, so as to stbject to execution lands
- and other property, not thus subject by the State laws in force at
that time.

cause was argued at the last term, by
the same cbunsdl with the preceding case of
Waymanv. outkard, (ante p. 1.) and continued to the present term for advisement.
THIS

Mr. Justice THOMPSPN delivered the opinion Feb. l5i
of ther Court.

This case comes up on a division of opinion
of the Judges of the Circuit Court of the United. Staties for the District of Kentucky, upon a
motion there made to quash the rdturn of the
Marshal upon a venditioni exponas issued inrthis
cause. The writ commanded the Marshal to
expose to sale certain articles of property therein
particularly specified; and; among other things,
two hundred acres of land of Abraham Venable,
one of the defendants.- The Marshal, in his return, states substantially, that he had exposed to

1 s5.

C" SES IN THE SUPREME COURT

sale, for cash, the lands mentioned in the writ,
S, Bankkno endorsement having beeir made on the execution, to receive in payment certain bank notes,
v.

1825.
U.

Halstead.

according to the provision of the laws of Ken-

tucky. That the lands had been valued at 26
dollars per acre, and, upon the offer for sale, no
more than five dollars per acre was bid; which
not being three fourths of the appraised value,
the land was not sold : thbreby conforming his
proceedings under the venditioni exyonas to the
directions of the law. of Kentucky of the 21st of
December, 1821, which prohibits the sale of'property taken under executions, for less than three
fourths of its appraised value, without the consent of the owner.
The motion in the Court. below wa.' to quash
this return., and to direct the Marshal to proceed
to sell the land levied upon, without regard to the
act above referred to. Upon this motion, the
Judges; being divided in opinion, have, according
to the pro-visions of the act of Congress in such
cases, certified to this Court the following questions :
1. Whether the said act of the general assembly of Kentucky, when applied to this case, was,
or was not, repugnant to the constitution of the
United States? and,
2. Whether, if it were not repugnant to the
.constitution, it would operate upon, and -bind,
and direct, the mode in which the venditioni exponas should be enforced by the Marshal, and
forbid a sale of the land levied upon, unless ii.
commanded three fourths of its value when esti-

OF THE UNITED STATES

mated, according to the provisions of the said 1825.
actU.
S.Bank
In examining these questions, I shall invert
V.
the order in which they have been certified to Halstead.
this Court, because, if the law does not apply to
the case so as to regulat.e and govern the conduct
of the Marshal, it will supersede the necessity
of inquiring into its constitutionality.
It ought to be borne in mind, ti at this law
does.not profess, in terms, to extend to Marshals,
or to executions issued out of the Courts of the
United States; and it is onlyunder some general
expressions, that either can, by .possibility, be
embraced within the law. And it ought not, in
justice to the legislature, to be presumed, that it
was intended, by any general terms there used,
to regulate and control that over which it is so
manifest they had no authority.
It canltot certainly be contended, with the
least colour of plausibility, that Congress doesnot possess thq uncontrolled power to legislate.
with. respect both t5 the form .and effect of executions issued upon judgments recovered in the
Courts of the United States. The judicial power
would be incomplete, and entirely inadequate to
the purposes for which it was intended, if after
judgment, it could be arrested in its progress,
and denied the- right of enforcing satisfaction in
any manner which shall be prescribed by the
laws of the United States. The authority to
carry into complete effect the judgments of the
Courts, necessarily results; by -imtlication, from
the power to ordain and establish such Courts.

CASES- IN THE SUPREME COURT

But itdoes not rest altogether upon such implifor express authority is given to Conacation;
U. S Bank
V. gress to make all laws which shall be necessary
all the
Halstead. and proper for carrying into execution
1825.

powers vested by the constitution in the government- of the United States, or in any department
or officer thereof. The right of Congress, therefore, to regulate the proceedings on. executions,
and direct the mode, and manner, and out of
what properzy of the debtor satisfaction may be
obtained, is not to be question ed, and the only
inquiry is, how far this power has been exercised;
The critical review taken by tha Chief Justice of
the various laws of the United States,. in the
opinion delivered in the case of Wayman v.
Southard,4 very much abridges an examination,
that might otherwise have been proper in this.
case. The result of that opinion shows, that
Congress has adopted, as the guide for the Courts
of tle United States, the processes which were
used and allowed in the Supreme Courts of the
several States, in the ypar 1789. That the 34th
section of the Judiciary Act, which requires that
the laws of the several States sirall be regarded
as rules of decision in trials z common law, in
the Courts of the United States, has no application to the practice of the Courts; or in any manner calls upon them to pursue t1he various changes
which may take place from time to time in the
State Courts, with respect to their processes, and
modes of proceeding under them. The princia Ante p. 20.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

pal inquiry in this case' is, whether the laws of 1825.
the United States authorize the Courts so to U.Bank
V.
alter the form of the process of execution, which
Hafstead.
several
the
of
Courts
Supreme
the
in
use
in
was
Siates in thie year 1789, as to uphold the venditioni exonas issued in this cause. In the year
1792, when the Process Act of. 1789 was made
perpetual, land in the State of Kentucky could
not be taken and sold.on execution; a law, .ho*ever, subjecting lands to executions, was passed
shoitly thereafter in the same year; and the. qu astion now arises, whether the Circuit Court of the.
United States for the Kentucky District, could so
alter the process of execution as to authorize the
seizure and-sale of land by virtue thereof.
For the decision of this question, it 'is necessary again to recur -to some of the acts of Congress which were under consideration in the case
referred to, for the purpose of ascertaining whether they do not provide as well for the effect and
operation, as for the form of process.
By the 14th section of the Judiciary. Act,
(2 L. U. S. 62.) power is given to the Courts'
of the United States to issue a writ of scire facwas, abeas corpus, and all other writs not specially provided for-by statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdietions, and agreeable to the principles and
usages of law. That executions are among the.
writs her'eby authorized to be issued, cannot admit of a doubt; they are indispensably necessary
for the beneficial exercise of the jurisdiction of
-the Courts v and in suibsequent parts of the act,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. this writ is specifically named as one to be used,
, and the control which the Court, in certain cases,
-- S Bank
U.
is authorized to exercise over it, is pointed out.
v.
Halstead. The precise limitations and qualifications of this
power, under the terms, agreeable to the principles and usages of law, is not, perhaps, so obvious. It doubtless embraces writs sanoiibned by
the principles and usages of the common law.
But it would be too limited a construction, as it
respects writs of execution, to restrict it to such
only. as were authorized by the common law. It
was well known to Congress, that there were in
use in the State Courts, writs of execution, other
than such -as were conformable to the usages of
the common law. And it is reasonable to conclude, that such were intended to be included
under the general description of writs agreeable
to the prihciples and usages of law. If it had
been intended to restrict the power to common
law writs, such limitation would probably have
been imposed in terms. That it was intended to
authorize writs of execution sanctioned by the
principles and usages of the State laws, is
strongly corroborated by the circumstance, that
the Process Act, passed a few days thereafter,
adopts such as the only writs of execution to be
used. Can it be doubted, but that, under the
power here given in the Judiciary Act, the Courts
of the United States, in those States where lands
were liable to be taken and sold on execution,
would have been authorized to issue a like process ? But under this act, the Courts are not restricted to the kind of process used in the State

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Courts, or bound in any respect to conform them-

1825.

selves thereto. This latitude of discretion was v. s. Bank
V.
not deemed expedient to be left with the Courts;

1789, Halstead.
and the act of the 29th of September,
[2 L. U. S. 72.] entitled, "An act to regulate processes in the Courts of the United States,"
modifies arid. limits this power. So far as is material to the present inquiry, it declares, that the
forms of writs and executions, and mbdes of
process, in the Circuit and District Courts, in
suits at comrfaon law, shall be the same in each
State .respectively, as are now used or allowed in
the Supreme Courts of the same. The form of
the writ contains substantially directions as to
what is to be done under it. Whether mesne or
-final process, it is on its face so shaped and
moulde.d, as to be adapted to the purposes for
which it is intended. This act, therefore, adopts
the effect its well as the form of the State processes; and as these were various in the different
States, it goes further, and adopts the viodes of
Vrocess, which must include every thing necessary
to a compliance with the cbmmand of the writ.
The effect and operation of executions must, of
course, vary in the different States, according to
the different forms which were used and allowed.
The mode ofproceeding, where lands, for instance,
were liable to be taken and sold on exeeution,
was different from that which would be necessary
where they were only liable to be extende& under
an elegit. It was therefore necessary to adopt
the modes of process, if the process itself was
adopted. This act was temporary; and conVOL. X.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tinued from time to time, until the permanent law
of the 8th of May, 1792, [2 L. U. S. 299.]
If. was passed; the second section of which, so far
as relates to the second question, declares, that
Hltaa.mu

1825.

U.S.B4k
V. S. Bank

the forms of writs, executions, and other process,
except'their style, and the forms and modes of
proceeding in suits of common law, in the-Courts
of the United States, shall bq the same ag are
no used in the said Courts, in pursuance of the
act entitled, "an act to regulate' processes in the
Courts of the United StatesP +his section then
goes on to prescribe the rules and principles by
which the Courts of -equity, and of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, were to be governed ;
and then follows this provision : Subject, however, to such alterations and additions, as the
said Courts respectively shall, in their discretion,
deem expedient, or to such regulations as the
Supreme Court of the United States shall think
proper, from time to time, by rule, to prescribe
o any Circuit or District Court concerning thb
ame. There can be no doubt, that the power
here given to the Courts, extends to all the subjects in the preceding parts of the section; and
embraces as well the forms of process, and modes
of proceeding in suits of common law,. as those
of equity, and of admiralty and maritime jurisdictiona. It will. be perceived, that this act presupposes that, in point of practice, the several
Courts of the Vr,ited States had carried into execution 'the provisions of the. act of 1789; and
1ha4 adopted the forms of process, and modes of
PImeeding ljaereoa, which were then usual, and

OF THE UNITED .STATES.

allowed in the Supreme Courts of the respective 12.
States; and it ratifies and continues such practice, U. &,Iak
V.
and extends it to all the proceedings in suits.
Head.
better
one
as
This course was no doubt adopted,
calculated to meet the views and wishes of the
several States, than for, Congress to have framed
an entire system for the Courts of the United
States, varying from that of the Siate Courts.
They had in view, however, State systems then in
actual operation, well known and understood,
and the propriety and expediency of adopting
which, they would well judge of and determine.
Ience the restriction in the act, now used and
allowed in the Supreme Courts of the several
States. There is no par t of the act, -however,
that looks like adopting prospectively, by positive
legislative provision, the -various changes that
might thereafter be made in the State Courts.
Had such been the intention of Congress, the
phraseology.of the act would doubtless have been
adapted to that purpose; It was, ndvertheless,
foreseen, that changes probably would bf made
in the -processes and proceedings in the State
Courts, which might be fit and proper to be
adopted in the Courts of the United States;
and, not choosing to sanction such changes absolutely in anticipation, power is given to the Couits
over the subject, with.a view, no doubt, so to alter and mould their processes and proceedings,
as to conform to those of the State Courts as
nearly as might be, consistently with the ends of
justice. This authority must have been given to
the Courts, for some substantial and beneficial

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

purpose. If the alterations are limited t0 mere
. S.'Bank form, without varyini the effect and operation of
UT.
the process,'it would be useless. The power here
7.
Haistead. given, in order to answer the object in view, can1085.

not be restricted to form. as contradistinguished
from substance, but must be understood ab
vesting in the Courts authority, so to 'frame,
mould, and shape the process, as to adapt it to
the purpose intended.
The general policy of all the laws on this subject is very apparent. It was intended to adopt,
and conform to, the State process and proceedings, as the general rule, but under such guards
and checks as might be necessary-to insure the
due exercise of the powers of the Courts of the
United States. They have authority, therefore,
from time to. time to alftr the process, in such
manner as they shall deem expedient, and likewise to make additionsthereto, which necessarily implies a power to enlarge the effect and operation of the process. The exercise of this power
is, to be sure, left in the discretion of the Court ;
but the object a~nd purpose for whieh it is given,.
is so plainly marked, that it is hardly to be presumed the Courts would omit carrying it into execution, without some substantial reason. And,
the better to insure this, authority is given to this
Court, to prescribe to the Circuit and District
Oourts, such regulations on the subject as it shall
think proper. And should this trust not be duly
and discreetly exercised by 'the Courts, it is at all
times in the. power of-Congress to correct the
evil by more specific legislation. But so long as

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the Courts of the United States shall make such '1825.
alterations or additions in their process of exe- U. S. Bank
v.
cution as only to reach property made subject to
Halstead.
would
there
Courts,
State
execution from the
seem to be no just groiund for complaint. When,
therefore,. the law of Kentucky made land subject to executions, it was carrying into effect the
spirit *and object of the act of Congress, for the
Circuit Court so to alter and add to the form of
its execution, as to authorize the taking and sellin.the debtor's'land.
Itis said, however, that this is the exercise of
legislative power, which could. not be delegated
by Congress to the Courts of justice. But this
objection cannot b"e sustained. There is no
doubt that Congress might have legislated more
specifically on. the subject, and declared what
property should be subject to executions from the
Courts of the United States. But it does not
follow, that because Congrees night have done
this, they necessarily must do it, and cannot commit the power to the" Co'krts of justice. Congress mighlt regulate the whole practice of the
Courts, if it was deemed expedient so to do:
but this power is-vested in *the Courts; and it.
never bas occurred to any one that it was a delegation of legislative power. The power given
to the Courts over their process is no more than
authorizing them to regulate and direct the conduct of the Marshal, in the .execution of the process. It relates, therefore, to the ministerial duty
of the officer; and partakes no' more of legislative power. than that diseretionarv authority in

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

trusted to every department of the government
a variety of cases. And, as is forcibly obserU. S. Bajk
V. ved by the Court, in the case of Wayman v.
Ha tead. Southard,the same objection arises to delegating
1825.

Sin

this power to the state, authorities, as there does
-to intrusting it to the Courts of the United-States.
It is as much a delegation of legislative power in
the one case as in the other. It has been already
decided, in the case ieferred to, that the 34th sedtion of the Judiciary Act has no application to the
practice of the Courts of the United States, so asin a ny manner to govern the form of the process of
execution. And all the reasoning of the Court,.
which denies the application of this section to the
form, applies with equal force to the effect or extent and operation of the process. If, therefore,
'Congress has legislated at all upon the effect of
executions, they have either adopted and limited,
it to thatzwhieLwould have been given to the like
process from the Supreme Courts of the respective States, in the yeafl-78 9, or have provided for
changes, by authorizing the Courts of the United
States to make such alterations and additions in
the process itself, as to give it a different effect.
To limit the operat" _n of an execution now, to
that whichit would have had in the year 1789, would
open a door to many and great inconveniencies,
which Congress seems to have foreseen, and to
have guarded against, by giving ample powers to
the. Courts, so to mould their process, as to meet
whatever ckanges might take place. And if any
doubt existed, whether the act of 1792 vests such
power in the Courts, or with respect to its con-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

stitutionality, the practical construction here- 1825.
tofore given to it, ought to have great weight in U. S. Bank
V.
determining both questions. It is understood,
HA4tOd..
universal
the
not
if
general,
that it has been the
practice of the Courts of the Jnited States, so
to alter their executions, as to authorize a levy
upon whatever property is made subject to the
like process from the State Courts; and under
such alterations, many sales of land have no
doubt been made, which might be disturbed if
a contrary construction should be adopted. That
such alteration, both in the form -and effect of
executions, has been made by the Circuit Court
for the District of Kentucky, is certain from the
cWse now before us, as, in 1789, land in Kentucky
could not be sold on execution. If the Court,
then, had the power so to frame and mould~the
execution in this case, as to extend to lands, the
only. remaining inquiry is, whether the proceedings on the execution could be arrested and controlled by the State law. And this question
would seem to be put at rest by the decision in
the case of Wayman v. Southard. The law
of Kentucky, as has been already observed,
does not in terms profess to exercise any such
authority; and if it did, it must be unavailing.
An officer of the United States cannot, in the discharge of his duty, be governed and controlledi
by State laws, any farther than such laws have
been adopted and sanctioned by the legislative
authority of the United States. And he does
not, in such case, act under the authority of the
State law, but under that of the United States,

CASES IN TIHE SUPREME COURT

which adopts such law. An execution is the fruit
Bank and end of the suit, and is very aptly called the
U. S. B
life of the law. The suit does not terminate with
v.
Halstead. the judgment; and all proceedings on the execiutjion, are proceedilgs in the suit, and which are expressly, by t)e act of Congress, put under the regulation and contr6l of the Court out of which it issues. It is a power incident to every Court from
which process issues, when delivered to the proper officer, to enforce upon such officer a -compliance with his duty, and a due execution. of the
process, according to its command. But we are
not left to rest upon any implied power of the
Court, for such authority over the officer. By
the 7th section of the act of the 2d of March, 1793,
(3 L. U. S. 367.) it is declared, that "it shall be
lawful for the several Courts of the United States,
from time to time, as occasion may require, to
make rules and orders for their respective Courts,
directing the returning of writs and processes, &c.
and to regulate the practice of the said Courts
respectively, in such. manner as shall be fit and
necessary for the advancement of justice, "andespecially to the end to prevent delays in proceedings." To permit the Marshal, in this case, to
be governed and controlled by the State law,
is not only delaying, but may be entirely defeating the effect and operation of the execution,
and would be inconsistent with the advancement
of justice.
Upon the whole, therefore, the opinion of this
Co t is, that the Circuit Court had authority to
ter the farmrf the process of execution, so as
1825.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to extend to real as well as personal property,
when, by the laws of Kentucky, lands were made

1825.

subject to the like process from the State Courts; U. S.Bank
and that the act of the General Assembly of Halstead.

Kentucky does not operate upon, and bind, and
direct the mode in which the venditioni exponas
should be enforced by the Marshal, so as to *forbid a sale of the land levied upon, unless it commanded three fourths of its value, according to
the provisions of the said act; and that, of course,
,the return of. the Marshal is insufficient, and
ought to be quashed, This renders it unnecessary to inquire into the constitutionality of the
law of Kentucky.
CERTIFICATE. This cause came.on to be heard
on the transcript, .&c. and the points on which
the Judges of the Circuit Court of -the United
States for tJ~e seventh Circuit and District of
Kentucky, were divided in opinion, and which
were, in pursuance of the act of Congress in
that case made .and provided, adjourned to- this
Court, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that the
act of the General Assembly of Kentucky, referred to in the- said questions, can.not operate
upon, bind, and direct the mode in which the said
venditioni expzonas should be enforced by the
Marshal, and forbid a sale of the land levied
upon, unless it commafhded three fourths of its
value when estimated according to the provisions
of the said act; and that this opinion renders it
unnecessary to decide whether the said act iq, or
VOL. X.

.0

(65

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Uniis not, repugnant to the constitution of the
is directed to be certified
The Antelope. ted States. All which
foer the
to the Circuit Court of the United States
seventh circuit and District of Kentucky.a
1825.

[PRIz.

INSTANCE CoURT.

SLAVE TRADE.]

The Vice-Consuls of Spain
The ANrTELOPE.
and Portugal, Libellants.
to the luw of nature, but is not
The African slave trade is contraly
prohibited by the positive law of rations.
by the laws of most civiliAlthough the slave trade is now prohibited
on by the subjects cf
carried
lawfully
be
still
may
zed ndtions, it
acts or treamunicipal
by
it
those nations who have not prohibited
ties.
so by the treaties or statutes
The slave trade is not piracy, unless made
belongs..
of the-ation to whom the party
.
does not exist in time of peace.
rheright of visitation, and search
of
laws
the
by
prohibited
if
ve sel engaged in the slave trade, even
cannot, for that cause alone, be
the country to which it belongs,
in for adjudication, in time
seized on the high seas, and brought
But if the laws of
country.
of peace, in the Courts of another
be authorized by
proceeding
the
or
that other country be violated,
unlawful.
case
that
treaty, the act of capture is not in
States v. January,
a In the case of the Bank of the United
the process was
Kentucky,
of
also certified from the Circuit Court
in express
extend
1792,
and
-a capia$, to-Twhich the acts of 1789,
must be
Congress
that
terms. This Court, thereforei-4letermiried,
process as one that was to issue
understood to have adopted that
the Uiited States, whenever it
permanently'froim the Courts df
by those acts, as a State
was in use, at, the epoch contemplated
accoidingly.
proceisg. A certificate was directed

