OP THE UNITED STATES.

lender to the pocket of the holder of the equity
of redemption.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, that the
decree must be reversed, and the cause sent
back to have a decree of'foreclosure entered, and
carried into effect, according to the exigencies of
the case.

(LovTzar.1
BRENT

and others v.

DAvis,

The scheme of a lottery contained a stationary prize for the first
dirawn number en each of twelve days, during which the drawing was to continue, and the first drawn number on the tenth day
was to be entitled to 30,000 dollars, payable in part by three hundred tickets, from Nos. 501-to 800, inclusive. No. 625, o e of the
So tickets to be given in part payment of the said prize, was drawn
first on that day, and decided to be entitled to the prize bf 50,000
dollars. After the drawing for the day was concluded, the managers reversed this decision, and awarded The prize to No. 4,760,
which.uas drawn next toNo. 8.3, and had drawn a prize of twentyfive dollar; which they decreed to No. 623.
fn drawing the same lottery, it was discovered on the last day, that
thi wheel of blanks and prizes contained Qne blank less thart
ought t, have been put into it; and to remedy this'mistake an additional blank was thrown Lti.
In an action brought bytlie managers against a person who had purchased the whole lottery, for the purob-"se money, it-was held, that
these irregularities did not vitiate the drawing of the lottery, the
conduct of the managers having been boncafide,and the affirmance
of their acts not furnishing any inducement to the repetition of the
same mistake, nor any motive for misconduct of any description.
Qure, VWhether the ticket No. 6S, or No. 4,760, was entitled to
the prize of 80,000 dullar%

395

1825,
Brent
T.

Davis.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
Brent

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District
of Columbia.

V.

Davis.
March 14th.

Mach 17th.

This cause was argued by Mr. Key, for the.
plaintiffs, and by Mr. Swann and Mr, Jones, for'
the defendant.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court.
The defendant was, the purchaser of the first
class of a lottery to be drawn in the city of Washington, conformably to a scheme agreed on between the plaintiffs, who had been appointed
managers, and himself; and the declaration is-on
the penalty of the bond given for the sum of
10,000 dollars, conditioned for the performance
of articles entered into between them, one of
which was, that he should pay the said sum of
10,000 dollars to the plaintiffs within sixty. days
after the lottery should be completed.
The defendant prayed oyer of the bond, .and
of the condition; after which the following entry
is made: " Non damnificatus pleaded, and issue,
with leave to give the special matter inevidence
on both sides."
A jury was impanelled, who found a special
verdict, which states at large the by-law of the
corp6ration authorizing the lottery, the appointment of the managers, their sale of the first class
to Davis, the scheme of the .lottery, and the
agreement entered into by him with tiem.
The verdict then states, that the managers,
and fthe said Davis, proceeded to draw the said

OF THE UNITED STATES.

$97

lottery, in the course of which, certain irregula- 1825.
rities took place, which are detailed at large; and Brent
the whole progress of the lottery to its concluV.
Davis.
sion is stated.
The scheme contains a stationary prize far
the first drawn number -on each of twelve days,
during which the diawing was to continue;
which were hot put into the numerical wheel.
The first drawn number on the 10th day was to
be entitled to 30,000 dollars, .payable in part by
three hundred tickets, from numbers 501 to 800
inclusive. No. 623, one of the three hundred
tickets to be given in part payment of the said
prize, was drawn first on that day, which was
immediately proclaimed by the managers, and
the prize awarded to it, by making the usual entry
in a book kept for that purpose.
After the drawing for that day was concluded,
the managers reconsidered their judgment, awarding the prize of $0,000 dollars to No. 623, and
reversed it. They then awarded thie prize to*No.
4,760, which was drawn next to 623, and had
drawn a prize of twenty-five dollars, which prize
they decreed to No. 623; and the original entriesmade in the book for the registration of prizes,
were transposed so as to conform :to this last determination.
On the last day, it was discovered, that the
Wheel of blanks and prizes contained one
blank less than ought to have .been put into it;
and to remedy.this mistake, the managers, and
the said Davis, agreed to throW in an additional
blank.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1198

The'verdict appears to have been intended not
only for this cause, but for another suit also,
B.n wbich was brought for the benefit of the propriDavis. etors of a ticket which had drawn a prize of
10,000 dollars, by the Corporation of Washington against one of the managers, on' a bond given
for the performance of his duty. It qoncludes
with the f&lowing findings: " If,-upon the. whole
matter, the law be for the plaintiffs,, so as to entitle th'e plaintiffs to demand and have of the defendant in this action, the sum of 10,000 dollars,
in and by the agreement recited in the conditio
of the bond given by the said Gideon Davis to
the said managers aforesaid, sixty days after the.
drawing of"the said lottery is completed, then
we find for the plaiatiffs the debt in the declaration mentioned, and one cent damages, to be discharged by the payment of 10,000 dollars.
. "And if the proprietors of the said prize tickets,
or the said proprietors of the said ticket No.
1,037, be entitled to demand and have the amount
of the several prizes drawn against their respective tickets in the' course of the drawings as
aforesaid, after making the deduction of fifteen
per cent. according to the said schem, and if the
proprietors of the said ticket No. 1,037, be entitled to demand and receive payment of the said
prize of 10,000 dollars, with such deduction as
aforesaid against the defendant in thih action,
then we 'find for the plaintiffs the farther sum of
. said purchasers
8,500 dollars, to the use of the
and proprietors of the said ticket No. 1,037, in
equal shares and proportions aforesaid. And if,.

1825.

7

OF THE UNITED STATES.

upon the whole matter, the law be for the defend- 1825.
ant, we find for the defendant."
Breat
The judgment of the Court was in faVour of
V.
Davis,.
before
now
is
judgment
that
and
the defendant;
this Court on a writ of error.
If, through the confusion which is introduced
into this record by the extreme irregularity of the
proceedings, the Court can perceive that the
plaintiffs have a real cause of action which may
be barred by this judgment, the justice of the
case requires that it should be reversed, although
the great fault in pleading .has been committed
by the plaintiffs in failing to assign any breach of
the condition of the bond on which the suit was
instituted.
The suit is supposed to be brought for the recovery of the 10,000 dollars which the defendant
engaged to pay sixty days after the lottery should
be drawn. This claim is resisted, on the plea
that the lottery, in point of law, is not yet drawn;
that the irregularities stated in the verdict have
vitiated the whole transaction; that. the lottery
must be redrawn; and that no right of action
can accrue to the plaintiffs until sixty days after
such redrawing shall be concluded.
The right of the plaintiffs, then, to maintain
this action, depends on the legality of the drawing as found in the special verdict.
The defendant insists that two errors have
been committed in drawing. the lottery, which
vitiate the whole, transaction. The first is the
proceeding respecting the first drawn ticket on
the 10th day; and the last the circumstances in

CASES iN THE SUPREME COURT

18R5.

1-

Brent

Dvis.

relation to the deficient ticket in the wheel of
blanks and prizes.
k

If the -ticket which was first drawn in fact,

ought to be considered as entitled to the prize,

as was first decided by the managers, then no
irregularity whatever took place in their proceedings with regard to this ticket, and this objeItion is clearly at an end. If the last decikion
of the managers was right, still there was no
irregularity in the drawing, unless the ticket No.
623 ought to have been restored to the wheel,
and have taken its chance for a blank or a prize.
We are not satisfied that the managers .ought to
have taken this course. The ticket was properly put in the wheel, and was consequently liable
to be drawn out of it at any time. The scheme
did not say that if any of those tickets which
were to be paid in part discharge of the stationary prizes should itself draw the prize, it should
be returned to the wheel and redrawh; and great
objections wouild, without doubt, have been made
to such a proceeding. It would have diminished
the chance of every remaining, ticket for the undrawn prizes, and would have constituted a much
more valid objection than can be made to what
was actually done. Had No. 623 been.replaced
in the wheel, and been fortunate eiotigh again
to draw a large prize, .it would have been very
difficult to sustain its title to that prize. Tiis
first objection to the conduct.of the managers is:
not, we think, supported.
More.difficulty is presented by the last. The
mistake in the. number of tickets placed in the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

401

wheel is undoubtedly an irregularity; but the 1825.
effect it ought to have. on the lottery is not so Brent
v.
obvious. The ticket not put in the wheel was a
Davis.
not
did
omission
the
blank; and, consequently,
diminish the chances of the adventurers. The
last drawn number would find no corresponding
ticket in the other wheel ; but the chance of each
to be the last drawn was. precisely the same as
the chance of each would have been to draw the
blank, which ought to have been in the wheel.
Had the lottery been completed without attempting to correct the error by throwing in another'
blank, the owner of the last drawn ticket wojuld
have been in -the samd situation as if the blank
had remaiped in the wheel; and if he could be
considered as having any just cause of.complaint,
itwould •seem more reasonable that the proprietors of the -lottery should restore him the price.
of his ticket, than that the •whole proceeding
should be declared a nullity. The general quiet
is more consulted by considering his- particular.
contract as v6id for want of consideration, than
by annulling all the rights acquired in the cotirse
of the drawing.
We do-not-think the case materially varied by
placing the blank ih the wheel in the course of
the last day. The tickets previously drawn could
not be affected by this act. The rights to prizes
which had been previously vested could ilot be
devested by this act. It could affect nothing
which had been done, and was of importance to
those-tickets only.which remained in the wheel.
It did -not in the slightest degree vary their
V-L. X.

51

402

1825.
Brent

v.
Pavis

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

chance. There were the same number of prizes
and the same number of blanks, with this only
diflbrence-had the blank not been put in the
wheel, the last ticket would have drawn nothing ;
whereas by puting it in the wheel, it did not necessarily fall to the lot of the last ticket. But
the aggregate of chances remained precisely the
same, It appears to have been ole of those unimportant incidents, which, hving been found to
be acidental, ought not to have so essential and
so disquieting an effect as unsettling all that had
been done would have.
The establishment of the lottery thus drawn
can be attended with no pernicious conse(luence. The transaction was, throughout, perfectly fair; and if the managers have committed
an error, it was unintentional, and unimportant.
The affirmance of their acts can furnish no in-

ducement to the repetition of the same mistakes;
nor any motive for misconduct of any description. But let it be settled, that the absence of a
blank at the conclusion of a lottery shall-vitiate
the whole transaction, and it is not difficult to
perceive how frequently motives may exist for
producing that state of things. However questionable may be the policy of tolerating lotteries,
there can be no question respecting the policy of
removing, as far as possible, from those who are
.concerned in them, all temptation to. fraud.
The case of Madison and. others v. Vaug-

han,.decided in the Court of Appeals of Virginia,
is supposed by the- defendants to be an authority
for declaring that this lottery ought to be redrawn,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

409

In that case, a Pumber corresponding to th*e num- 1825.
ber of one of ti. tickets was not put ifito the
v.
wheel, and two b oks more than the proper
Daviik
conWythe
Chancellor
it.
number were put into
sidered the lottery as well drawn ; but his decree
was teversed in the Court of Appeals. Supposing the decree of reve'rsal to be correct, there is
some difference between the cases. One ticket
not being in the wheel, the proprietor of it did
not partake of the chance to which every adv'enturer had an equal right; and there being two
more blanks in the wheel than were allovwed by
the scheme, the chances of every ticket were diminished. If when all the numbers for the tickets
which ha.d been put in the wheel were drawn,two blanks* had remained undrawn, it would be
difficult to show that any injury had been done
to a ticket-holder by the. two" additional blanks;
but if one or two prizes had remained undrawnit would be obvious that some ticket had drawn,
a blank which ought to have drawn' a prize,. and
this circumstance woulit have affoirded stronger
re.as~n for the decree that the whole proceeding
most be considered as a nullity.
The case of Meilson v. Mott, (2 Binn. 301.)
was a suit brought by the proprietor of a lottery
against a purchas'er of 500 lottery tickets, on a
note given by him for the purchase money, whicly
was payable one day after tlM-conclusion of the"
drawing -ofthe lottery. In the wheel containing
the numbers ofthe tickets, the numbers of thirtynrne- tickets wdre omitted, and in the .same
wheel, there were. duplicates of thiriv-nine nufn

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

404
1825.

" Brent
v.

Davis.

bers. The proprietors had satisfied all the
holders of the duplicate numbers except four or
five, and had offered to indemnify all by public
advertisement. A day or two before the last
day's drawing, the managers opened the wheel,
and discovered that there was one number omitted and another put in twice, which they altered.
The defendant resisted the payment of his
note, because the lottery was not legally drawni
the whole being vitiated by this mistake.
Judgment was given for the plaintiff, on the
ground that the drawing was -notvitiated by these
irregularities. Two of the .Judges were of opinion, that as the defendant had sustained no injury by them, he could not avail himself of them;
and the third,. (the Court consisting of three,)
thought he had waived his right by not returning
his tickets, and by receiving the prizes he had
drawn.
The case of Schinotti v. Bumstead and
others, (6 D. 4- E. 646.) was an action broughi
by the .holder of a ticket claiming a prize allotted
in the scheme to that which should be last drawn
in'the lottery.
The number of one ticket had not .been put
into the wheel; and the demand made by the
owner of the ticket which was last actually
drawn, was resisted, Qn the ground that the ticket
not yet drawn, for which a gorrespondent blank
remained in the wheel, must be the~4ast. Lord
Kenyon said, that as the plaintiff's ticket was
the last drawn, he is entitled to the prize ; the

OF THE UN1TED STATES.

405

only competitor with him was the owner of a 1825.
ticket which never was drawn, and that person Brent
has no claim to itwhatever.
T.,
So far as respects the omission to put the Davis.
nuimber of one ticket into the wheel, this case
bears an exact resemblance to Madison et al. v.
Vaughan,and is, perhaps, stronger than the case
under consideration. The *omission of a ticket
is, at least, .as irregular and as important as the
omission of a blank, and yet, in Schinotti v.
Bumstead and others, no suggestion was made
against the validity of*the drawing.
Upon these authorities, and upon the reason
and substantial justice of the case, this Court is
of opinion, that the "lottery in the special verdict
mentioned, has been legally drawn, and that the
defendant became liable to the plaintiffs, sixty
days after it was concluded, for the sum of 10,000
dollars.* The judgment, therefore, in favour of
the defendant, must be reversed.
But the
pleadingfre too defective to sustaini a judgment
on thi yerdict for the plaintiffs. The verdict,
therefore, and the pleadings, up to .Ihe declara-"
tion, must be set aside, and the cause remanded
to the Circuit Court, that farther proceedings
may be had therein according to law.
Judgment reversed, and a vedirefaciasde nzova
awarded.

