)F

M~E I NI'PEI

S'

MS'.

47~3
1825.

(INsT

c

COURT.

]nAc'rcE.]

J. MANRo and others v. JOSEPH ALMEIDA, and the
goods, chattels, and credits of the said ALMEIDA.
The Courts of the United States, proceeding as Courts of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, have jurisdiction in cases of inaritim.
torts, in personam as well as in rem.
The Courts of the United States,.proceeding as Courts of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, may issue the-process of attachment to
compel appearance, both in cases of maritime torts and contracts.
Under the Process Act of 1799, c. 137. [xxxvi.] s. 2. the proceedings

in cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction in the Courts of
the United States, are to be according to the modified admiralty

practice in bur own country engrafted upon the British practice;
and it is not a sufficient reason for rejecting a particular process

which has been constantly used in the Admiralty Courts of this
country, that it has fallen into desuetude in England.
The proces* by attachment may issue, wherever the defendant has
concealed himself or absconded .from the country, and the goodsto be attached are within the jurisdiction of the admiralty.

It may issue against his goods and chattels, and against his credits
and effects in the hands of third persons.
The remedy by attachment in the admiralty, in maritime cases, applies even where the same goods are liable to the process of foreign
attachrnent, issuing from the Courts of common law.
It applies, to the case of a piratical capture, and the civil remedy is
not merged in the crimiinal offence.
In case of default, the property attached may be condemned to antswer the demand of the libellant.
It is not necessary that the property to be attached should be specified
in the libel.
B.seems, that an attachment cannotissue without an express otder of

the Judge, but it may be issued sirna'ltaneously with the monition ;

and where the attachment issued in this manner, and in pursuance
of the prayer of the libel, this Court will presume that it was reg,.
ely issued.
60
rOL .

Manro
V.
Alneidlt.

474
125.
'

-.
Ameida..

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Maryland.
This was a libel filed in the District Court by

the appellants, resident merchants of Baltimore,

against the respondent, Almeida, charging him
ivith having forcibly and piratically taken from
on board a certain -vessel, off the capes of the
Chesapeake, and within the territorial limits of
the United States,.the sum of 5,000 dollars, in
specie, belonging to the appellhnts, and converted the saihe to his own use, without bringing it
into any port or place for adjudication. The
libel further stated, that the said Almeida had
absoopided from thb Unitea States,' and fled beyond the'jurisdiction of the Court,- and that no
me.ans of redress remained for the libellants, nless by processof attachment against .the goods,
chattels,' and c.redits of the said.Almeida, which
were also about to'be removed, by his orders, to
foreign parts. The libel also prayed a.personal
monition, and likewise viis et modis, and that the
respondent might answer the premises on oath,
and be compelled to pay the appellants the said
stlm of 5,000 dollars, and damages;. and in default thereof, that his goods, chattels, and credits,
when attached, be condemned to answer the premises, &c. The Marshal returned, that he had
attached certain goods and chattels of the said
Almeida; thafthe said Almeida was not to be
found within the District, and that he had left a
copy of the- monition at the late dwelling, house
of -Atmeidg,-and had affixed it at the public ex-

OF"THE UlNITED STATES.

475

clange, and dn the mast of the vessel contain- 1825.
ing the goods and chattels attached by him. But ""
V.
although the transcript of the record contained Almeida.
and
attached-goods,
the
of
sale
the
for
a petition
an order of the Court denying the prayer of the
petition ; yet it did not appear by the record by
what authority the attachment issued. But it
appea:ed by the admission of counsel at the
hearing,.that the attachment had been issued by
the clerk of the. District Court, as a process of
course, without any particular order of the Judge
The respondent apperd by a proctor 6f the
Court, and demurred to the libel. .On the argument of the demurrer, the .DistrictCourt dismissed the libel, and ordered that the goods, chattels, and credits, attached, should be i'estored
with costs. This decree being affirmed, pro
forma, by the Circuit Court, the cause was
brought by aplpeal to this Court.

M\Ir. Hoffman. and Mr.

layer, for. the appel-

lants, argued, (1.) That on principlethe process
of attachment must be considered as peculiarly
applicable in admiralty proceedings. As- the
Court acts habitually i7 rem, the proceeding by
attachment very naturally became a part of its
practice. Hence it was often resorted to in
early times in England ; but the Courts of common'law, influenced by an illiberal and jealous
spirit, have gradually encroached upon the admiralty judicature ; and, we may readily believe,
as we are told, that it has fallen into desuetude

.2
Peb 6t'.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

4:6

in that country.' But this does not prove that
its legal existence is extinguished. It is still in
use on the European continent, whence the local
v.
Almeida. customs of, London end Exeter were also derived; the principle being, that persons are to
be reached by justice through the medium of
their properiy, as well as by direct proceedings
-inpersonam; and though there are some exceptions to the application of this principle, yet it is
universally applied to the case of absconding
Contrary to the opinion of Huberus,
debtors.'
the proceeding by attachment Was known to the
civil law, and is eipressly provided for by the
Digest, in the case of an absconding defendant.
2. It has been said, that if the proceedirng by
attachment, in the Admiralty, be applicable to
cases of contract, it cannot properly be applied
to a tort such as the present. But there is no
authority to sustain such a distinction. In
Clerke's Praxis no .distinction is laid down between tort and debt; but the course of proceeding is intimated in that book as .applicable to
both; and the language in 2 Bro. 434. includes
all grievances and claims whether of contract or
tort.. In this country, however, it has been expreqsly adjudged to extend to tort as well as
debt.' It may be admitted, that where the tort
1825.
MVanro

a 2 Bro. Civ. and Adm. Law, 333.
4 Van Leeuwen's Rom. Dutch Law, 542, 543. 546. 548.
c* Hal'N Adm.Pract. 60, 61. 63. 70. 78. 82. 89.
d Bee's kdm. Rep. 60. 64. 141. 186. 2 Gallis. Re. 41, .Del
Cel v. Arnold, 3 Dall.333. The Cassiusm, 3 Dall. 123. 2 S2
., Jenkzlk's WMsk, 714-.754.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

477

is of so indefinite a character that it can be re- 1825.
duced to no certain estimate, attachment will
v.
not lie. But here there is an obvious standard
Almeida.
and
wrong,
the
of
amount
the
for determining
liquidating the damages. The property taken
consisted of specie dollars. Where a tort can
be thus defined, attachments have been allowed
even from the Courts of common law." Res
non per se invicem sed per pecuniam estimantur,
et non pecuniaper res. Even before 'the statute
of Marlbridge, for remedy in excessive distresses,
where money was taken in such cases, trespass
would lie; because money is the measure of its
own value, and of every wrong concerning it.'
There is then, here, as much certainty in the demand, from the nature of the' wrong, as is required in debt. The appellantsdo not sue as
for a.tort, by that name; but they state their

complaint, and leave it to the Court to give it the
benefit of such technical forms as are appropriate to the case. Even at common, law, they
might have devested their claim of all the formal
characteristics of tort, and given it the qualities
of contract and the certainty of debt. The
wrong concerning money exclusively, they might
have brought indebitatus assumpsit for money
had and received, instead of trespass for money
taken and carried away. A Court of Admiralty,
with its charabcteristic liberality, will regard their
a Sergeant'&Law of 4ttach. 44. 2 B,'o. Pennsylv. Rev. 8.
Appendix. 5 Serg. 4'.Rawle, 450. 3 Term Rep. 338.
.b2 Bac. ,4br.lit. Distress. 1 Burr. 590. 2 Str. 281

478

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

claim as having assumed this technical form, if it
be necessary for the purposes of justice.
3. Even if the process issued irregularly in this
v.
Almeida. case, for want of q previous special application
1825.

to the Judge; it is now too late to object to the
irregularity, since the'appearance- of the defendant cures all formal dfi.cts in the process.. But
the equitable mhtxim, that what ought.to be done
will -be considered as done, is applicable in a
Court of Admiralty ; and if the claim be so verified as thatthe process of attachment ought to
have. issued, the Court will consider it as having
duly issued. Quodfieri non debet farturm valet,
is a maxim applicable to the omission of acts
merely directory and formal in their nature. It
may be that the course of the English High
Court of Admiraltyrequires a previous application to the Judge. to authorize the issuing an attachment, but such is no' the practice in the United States. The iiregularity might have been
taken advantage of by an. exception, in the nature of a plea in abatement, or by a motion to set
aside the process, but not upon demurrer, as here
attempted.
4. This is a complaint cognizable on the illstance side of the Court, and 'not of prize jurisdiction. The libel alleges a capture with-in the
territorial jurisdiction of this country, and, therefore, a violation of its neutrality. It ii then not
a case of ordinary belligerent capture, involving
the rialits of war, and requiri .g the cognisance
a 5C.qnch,496-

4 Cranch 421.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

479

A mere maritime tort is out 1825.
of the sphere of the prize jurisdiction, which is
of the Prize Court.

V.
confined to captures jure bellh. The libel here
Almeida.
jure
capture
a
not
and
cbarges a piratical taking,
belli. The act of 1794, c. 50. s. 6. authorizes
the District Courts to take cognisance of all
cases of capture within our waters. It brings
them within the civil or instance jurisdiction of
the Admiralty, and does not consider such cases
as subjects of prize jurisdiction, which had already been vested in the District Courts.
5. The civil remedy in this case is not merged
-in the piracy charged as the wrong of which the
appellants complain." That doctrine- only applies to cases of felony and treason ;.and takes
its rise from the policy of the ancient common
law, to compel the despoiled party to prosecute
his appeal for robbery, and to prevent the compounding of feloni.es. Piracy is not felony at
common law, nor has it all the common-law incidents of felony, although in some cases it is
expressly declared by statute to be felony. Although the stat. 28 Hen. VIII. c. 15. makes piracytriable according to the course of the common
law, yet it has not been interpreted to place it
on the footing, and give itithe technical qualities,
of felony. A pardon of felonies, since this statute, does not, ex vi ternini, include 'piracy.
The actof Congress goes no farther, in identifya Co. Litt. 111, 112, 5 '4-m Rep. 175. 4 BL Comm. 70.
2 Bro. Civ. & 4dm. La v, 110.
!268. 362. 24 Johns. Rep. 268
b Bac. ,Abr. tit. lPiracn Pardoi,

480

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ing piracy with felony, than the statute of Henry
does. An attachment against a pirate's goods,
\
V. for a robbery committed by him, was known to
Almeida. the earlier' periods of the law, and there was a
writ from.Cha.ncery to authorize it." But, it is
clear, that the ddctrine of merger cannot be applied' to the case: of a pirate abscondifig from
justice, and where the individual sufferer cannot
prosecute him criminally. 'Such is understood
to b.e the recently adjudged law in England,
even in respect to a felony at common law..
6. It was 'unnecessary that the attachment
should specify the goods to be attached. No
rule of practice prescribes It, and no principle of
convenience requir'es it. In the analogous case
of distringas on mesne process at common law,
no such specification is made. The party whose
goods are attached may release them, by appearing and giving security; and if he suffers
them to be condemned and sold by default, no
more of thb proceeds will be decreed to the
libellant than is sufficient to satisfy his demand.
7. Nor is the locality of the territory or jurisdiction within which the property is attached
material to the validity of the attachment, it
being seized in the exercise of the Admiralty
judicature upon a subject within its established
jurisdiction, and the property taken, or the right
to it, not being the immediate object of the suit,
but only incidental to its prosecution. Cterke's
Prazis (Pt. 2. tit. 28.) does, indeed, speak of
1825.

a Fitzh. Nat. Brev. 114.

2 Gallis. Rep. 408, 409.

OF TPHE UtNITED STATES.

goods within the ebb and flow of the tide, or on 1825.
the sea, being subject tQ the attachment; but it Manus
V.
evidently alludes to these instances only by Way
Almeid.
is
This
of exemplification, not of restriction.
also evident from tit. 32. which authorizes the
attachment of the defendant's goods and credits
in the hands of -a third person, without restriction as to locality-.
Mr. Taney, coitra, argued, (1.) that a civil
suit could not be maintained for the injury complained of in the libel. The reinedy is here
sought in personamn by a suit in the Instance
Court. The attachment is:a mere ancillary pr6cess to compel appearance. The property is out
of the jurisdiction 'f the Court, and this is a
proceeding against other property to compel an
appearance. The wrong charged in the libel is
a piracy. Can this be treated as a private wrong ?
There is ri6 case in the records of the English
Admiralty to authorize such a proceeding, and
b'oth principle an.- analogy are against it. The
absence of all authority in adjudged cases is a'
strong argument that it is not law. It is said that
piracy is not treason nor felony. In England it
was treason, and is felony. It has been*suchsince the stat. 25 Edw. III. c. 2." The goods of
pirates, not belonging to others, areforfeited to
the crown, as in felony.' How, then, can these
a 4B1. ConiMn. 71.

&"ddm. 1,]w. 40-.
b 2 Bro.-C-it'.
V0 . X

482

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

goods be made liable to satisfy the damages sustained by a private party ?
A.
But, it is said, that the injured party may
A eida. waive the tort, and treat it as a contract. The only
case where this may be done is, where, on a.conversion of the plaintiff's goods, and a subsequent
sale and receipt of the goods, the plaintiff may
ratify what is done, and consider the goods as
having been received by his authority. But that
is in the case of a private tort, which may be
waived : a wrong to the public cannot be waived.
The authority of Dr. Browne is express, that.\ in
such a case the remedy is either criminally, as for
a public crime, or in the Prize Court, as for a
wrongful taking as prize.*
2. If the appellants can maintain a civil suit
in such a case, can they do it in this form of
proceeding? Will an attachment from the admiralty lie against the goods of an absent or absconding debtor? The power of proceedizig in
this manner once existed, and wads analogous to
the proceeding by foreign attachment according
to the custom of London; but has long since
been disused in England,' and, like many other
usages in the admiralty, has become obsolete.c
But the foreign attachment, according to the
custom of London, only applied to cases of contract; and Sir L. Jenkins claims the admiralty
jurisdiction to be exercised in this manner only
18' 5.

a 2 Bro. Gin. - 4dn. Law, 1ifs.
b 2 Bro. Cir. 4 ,4drI. Law, 434
- Hall' .4dm. P;ract. 62

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in cases of contract." The practice, a it is laid

4W3

1825.

down by Clerke, is plainly- confined to contracts. %.OW
dv..
A
", " of the warrant Ameida.
The caption of tit. 28. part •1. is
abdebtor
the
where
to be impetrated in rem,
sconds," &c. And tit. 32. states, that " sometimes the person, .who, by loan, or other maritime contract, is indebted to another," &c. and
then authorizes an attachment of the credits or
goods of the debtor in the hatids of a third person, upon the principle laid down -in the code,
that debitor creditoris est debior creditoricreditoris ; all which evidently implies, that the whole
proceeding is confined to matters of debi and
contract.b
Although the proceeding by attachment has
been occasionally resorted to in .this country,. yet
it cannot be said to have gained a legal footing;
and it would be an extremely inconvenient practice in our divided jurisdiction, where there may
be as many different attachmentg issued at the
same time as there are Districts in the Union.
But, to prevent the abuses to which it is lrmbl6, it
is indispensably necessary that this process
should only issue by' an express order of the.
Court. There is no precedent for its issuing of
course, and as it cannot issue withbut an affidavit, the sufficiency of the matter contained in the
affidavit, and the libel, are fit subjects for the determination of the Judge, and ought riot to be
confided to the discretiori of a mere ministerjal
a SHatP LawJourn. 571. 2Bro. Civ. & ,4dm. Law. 433
7hHall',dm.Pract 60.70"

CASES IN THE SUPREME CO RI

officer, such as the clerk. So, also, the property
to be attached should be specifically stated in the
X anro
warrant. This is required by Clerke, in the pasA.
Tit. 28. authorizes "a
A.Imeida. sages already cited.
1825.

warrant to be impetrated to this effect, viz. to
attach such goods or such ship of D., the defendant, in whose hands soever they may be; and to
cite the said D. specially as the owner, and all
others who claim any right or title to them," &c.
These errors were pot cured by the defendant's
appearance, because, if we resort to the analogy
of common law proceedings, his appearance dissolved the attachment; and, in the present case,
he appeared under protest, for the purpose of
contesting the regularity of the proceedings.
Ararch 8th.

Mr.' Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The record in this cause sets out the libel, the
demurrer, and the decision of the Court upon
the demurrer. So far the case is consistent and
intelligible; but the record contains, also; a petition for the sale of certain attached goods, a
survey of the goods, and a decision against the
petition, but no exhibition of the process or mode
by which these goods came into the custody of
the Marshal. As the decision of the Court sustains the demurrer, we are left at a loss upon
the record, to discover how process of attachment came to be issued. To obtain such'process is the very prayer of the libel, and the decision of the Court is against that prayer.
All the solution that the case presents, is to be

OF THE UNITED STATES.

485

found in the argument of counsel, and their mu-

1825.

tual admissions.

Ma"r"

V.
The clerk, it seems, issued the attachment as
Almeida.
instead
respondent,
the
process of course, and
of moving to quash it for irregularity, appeared
to the libel; filed his demurrer, and was content
to let the regularity of the attachment abide the
decision of the Court_ upon the gbneral questions raised upon the libel. The Court appears
to have treated the subject under the same jiews;
since the decree of the District Court, after dismissing the libel, contains an order, " that the
goods, chattels, and credits attadhed,.be restored,
with costs ;" which decree .was affirmed pro
forma in the Circuit Court.
Upon this state of the case the cause has been
argued, as one bringing up to this Court a question on the regularity of the process issued by
the clerk ; and if the process so issued, and. the
return of the Marshal upon it, and h motion to.
quash the writ, had been-set out-on the recordi
there is no question that the appeal would have
brought up the whole subject. Biat as the record is deficient in these particulars, we-dohot
perceive how we can take notice of that part of
the Judge's decision which orders the restoratibn
of the goods attached.
We must, therefore, confine 'ourseIves to -the
questions raised on the lib'el and demurrer.
whether
The immediate question presented is,
the Court below erred in refusing to the libellaht
the process of attachment on the case made out
in his libel ?

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

486
1825.
Manro

V.
Almeida.

And this resolves itself into two questions;
the first arising on the right, the second on the
remedy of the case. It must be here noticed,
that the !egality of the seizure made by Almeida

is not now in question; that question may. be
undergoing adjudication' for aught we know, in a
Court of competent jurisdiction, and we are not
to be understood as prejudging the influence
which the decision of a foreign tribunal may
have upon the final adjudication between these
parties. The defendant has demurred under
protest, and the only, question now is, whether
the libellant has made out, prima facie, a good
cause for relief in the admiralty.
The ground of complaint is a maritime tort,
The Courts
of the Unitedi
of
States havej,.- the violent seizure on the ocean of a sum
ridiction, s money, the property of the libellants. . That the
courts of ad-mo
mirait
and
ju libellant would have'been entitled to admiralty
maritime
risictionI
. against the property, had it been brought
'
cases of mal- process
r . - '
firmetorts,a9dwithin the reach of our process, no one has
,

proceeding in

peroA

as
ase1n ren

only doubt on this part of the

The
subject is, whether the remedy in personam, for
questioned.

which this is a substitute, (or, more properly,
the form of instituting it,) can be pursued in
the admiralfy.
On this Doint we consider it now too late to
express a doubt. This Court has entertained
such suits too often, without hesitation, to permit
the right now to' be questioned. Such was the
case of Maley v. Shattack, (3 Cranch, 468.)
Such is the principle recognised in Murray v.
The Charming Betsey, (2 Cranch, 483.) where
the Court decreeA damages against the libel-

UF THE UNITED STATES.

487

lant. Such, also, was the priniciple in the case 1825.
of the Apollon, (9 Wheat. Rep. 362.) in.1which AManro
V.
the libel was directly in personam, and damages
decreed. We consider that question, therefore, Almeida.
as not to be stirred.
The remedy by attachment, also, to compel ap-,, The Courts
Prosupport in prece-State,,
pearance, has very
as
ceeding
--•- - respectable
of addent. In the District Court of South Carolina, courts
and
miralty
j'during the administration of a very able admi- marime
-isdiction,may
ralty Judge, it was resorted to habitually, bothissue the prof atRe CsS
to
t achnent attin cases of tort and contract. (Bee's Adm. Rep.tcment
141. The case of Del Col v. Arnold, (3 Dall.compeln
incs
and
Rep. 333.) is the only one we know of,in
•ofwhich bothtrt
beencontrac
have
to
any view of this question appears
presented :to this Court. And there, undoubtedly,
the exception taken was not to the issuing of the
attachment in the abstract, but to the issuing of
it against a prize made from a friendly power,
b.fore the property had been devested by condemnation. "The response of the Court on this
point would seem to imply something more,
since their decision is reported to have been,
that-whatever might originally have been the
irregularity in attaching the Industry and cargo,
it is completely obviated, since the. captors had a
power to sell the prize, and by their own agreement they have consented that the proceeds of
the sale should abide the present suit."
Still there is nothing to be deduced from .this
case which caii affect the question now under
consideration. The. point, as t.tated to have been
gument, was' cerpresented to the Court. ifi
not avail him.
coild
capor
a
which
of
tainly one

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

488

1825.
Manro

V.
Almeida.

self, and the original owner of the prize was not
in Court. And although the Court would appear
to have had the present question in view when

disposing of that point, yet it is only noticed arguendo, as they pass on to take a ground which
precluded the necessity of considering the point
made in argument.
We, therefore, consider this altogether a new
question before this Court.
The jurisdiction of the, admiralty rests upon
the grant in the constitution, .ard the terms in
which that grant is extended to the respective
Courts of the United States. The forms and
modes of proceeding in causes of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, are prescribed to the
Courts by the second section of the Process Act
of 1792. In the Process Act of 1789,*the language made use of in prescribing those forms
implied a general reference to the practice of the
civil law ; but in the act of 1792, the terms employed are, " according to the principles, rules,
and usages, which belong to Courts of admiralty,
as contradistinguished from Courts of common
law."
By the laws of Maryland, the right of attachment may be asserted in the Courts of common
law, and the Court below appears to have considered the libel in this, instance as an attempt
by the libellant to avail himself in the admiralty
of the common law remedy by attachment. The
forms of the libel must determine this question,
and there we find the Prayer expressed in these
wtords: " To the end, therefore. that your libel-

(it

THE UNITED STATES.

lants may obtain speedy relief in the prenises,
they pray process of attachment against the
said goods, and chattels, and credits, of the said
J. A., which may be found within the jurisdiction
of this honourable Court, and the process thereof, according to the just course of the admiralty.
and that monition viis et modis be made accordingly," &c. " to compel an answer," &c.; and
" firnally, that the said goods, and chattels, and
credits, when duly attached, may, by a decree of
this honourable Court, be condemned to answer
the premises."
There can be little doubt, as well fromn the objects embraced in this prayer, as from the argument, that the identity of the remedy in the common law and admiralty Courts, appears to have
been in the mind of the party libellant. Yet this
was no ground for the total refusal of the relief
prayed for ; the writ should have been granted,
and the question as to ulterior proceedings under it retained, to be disposed of afterwards.
The prayer of the libel contemplates two purposes; first, to compel appearance; secondly,
to condemn for satisfaction. Now, although the
latter may be only incidental, and not the primary object of the attachment; yet, if it be legal
for the purpose of compelling appearance, the
demand for the one purpose was no ground fbr
refusing it for the other.
In giving a construction to the ac.t of 1792, it
is unavoidable, that we should consider the admiralty practice there alluded to. as the admiralti
practice of our own ,o.intr% . im 2raft'd apit)j
".Sy_.X

6

the

1825.
,
,.
Aineida.

491)

CASES IN THE' SUPREME COURT

British practice; it is known to have had some pewhich have been incorporated into
culiarities
the jurisprudence
of the United States. We
had then been sixteen years an independent peo-

1825.
a.r
Alnbda.

pie, and bad administered the admiralty jurisdic1792, c. 37. tion as well in admiralty Courts of the*States, as in
in fact,
and if,
[xxxvi s 2. those of the general government;
gvrmn
the
proceedUnler

the

Process Act of

ings, in caseesh

of admiralty a change had taken
andrmaritin!e two countries, that

the Courts of claim

place in the practice of the
of our own -certainly must

precedence.

United
the
On the subject particularly under consideraStates, are to
be according
to
i-tion, it appears from an English writer, that the
difiedthe admoralty practice
gi'a
fed

,,ed

practice of issuing attachments had been disin the English Courts of admiralty,

en."continued

cotry

upon
uritsh
while

practice ; and
it will not be use,

reascienfr
jecting a

in some of our own Courts it was still in

perhaps not so generally as to sanction our

sustaining it altogether on authority, were we
par-not of opinion, that it has the highest sanction

ticular process
has also,
which
been constantIt
ly used inthe
admiralty
Courts of this cess

as well in principle as convenience.
is a mistake, to consider the use of this proin the admiralty as borrowed from, or in
country, that . .
it has fallen imitation of, .the foreign attachment under the
iton desuetude
custom of London. Its origin is to be found in
England.
it,

the remotest history, as well of the civil as the
common law.

origin

of

In the simplicity of the .remote ages of the

incivil
attachmet°
the admiralty.

law, the plaintiff himself arrested the de-

fendant, and brought him before the Pretor.

But as the sanctuary of his own habitation was
not to be violated, if he came not abroad, asummons was attached to his door-postk citing him
to appear and answer. Hence our monition viis
.et modiq. If he still proved recusant after three

t)F THE UNITED STATES.

times repeating this solemn notice, a decree is- 1825.
sued to attach his goods; and thus, this process ,i,nro
V.
of the admiralty had a common origin with the
Almeida.
sumby
suit
a
instituting
of
common law mode
mons and distress infinite. If the defendant
obeyed, he could -only appear upon giving bail;
and thus again-the analogy was kept up with the
appearance at common law, which was svnonvmous with filing special bail.
Thus, this process has the clearest sanction
in the practice of the civil law, and during the
three years that tle admirity Courts of these
States were referred to the practice of the civil
law for their " forms and modes of proceeding,"
there could have been no question that this process was legalized. Nor is there any thing, 1
the different phraseology adopted in the, act 6f
1792, that could preclude its use. That it is
agreeable to the " principles, rules, and usages,
which belong to Courts of admiralty," is establisbed, not- only by its being, resorted to in one
at least of the Courts df the United States, butf
by the explicit declaration of a book of respectable authority, and remote origin, in which it is
laid down thus : " If the defendant has concealed
himself, or has absconded from the kingdom, so
that he cannot be arrested, if he have any goods,
merchandise, ship.or vessel, on the sea, or within
the ebb or flow of the sea, and within the jurisdiction of the Lord High Admiral, a warrant is
to be impetrated to this effect, viz. to attach such
goods or ship of D., the'defendant, in whose
hands soever they may be: and to cite the said

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

D. specially as the owner, and all others who
claim any right or title to them, to be and appear
on a certain day to answer unto P. in a civil and
V.
Almeida. maritime cause."
(Clerke's. Praxis by Hall,
part-2. tit; 28.)
I have cited the passage at length, in order to
in
Casesan atwhih
:c,,ent may facilitate a reference which must be made to it
'As
AU..
on several other points in this opinion. And,
(1.) it appears from this authority, that where a
defendant has concealed himself, or absconded
from the kingdom, this process may issue. In
this particular, the averments in the libel conform
literally to the authority.
2. It is required that the goods, and effects to
be attached should be within the jurisdiction of
the admiralty. To this the libel conforms also,
for the praye.r is for process against " the said
goods, and chattels, and credits, of the said J.
A. which may be found within the jurisdiction of
the Court, and the process thereof, according to
the just course of the admiralty."
3. It is required, that the attachmen: issue
against any goods, merchandise, ship, or vessel,
on the sea, &c. The only deviation in this particular is, that the process prayed for is against
the credits, as well as the goods and chattels,
&c. within the jurisdiction of the Court.
On this part of the prayer, the question is
raised, as to what goods and chattels the attachment may issue, where situated, and whether
against credits and effects in the hanab- of third
persons, but not tangible or accessible to the
Marshal.
1825.

'

Mlanro

OF THE UNITED' STATES.

493

This question arises from a comparison of the 1825.
tit. 32. p. 70. Clerke's Praxris by flal, with the
28th before cited. The language of the 28th
V.
Almeida.
atthe
of
operation
the
confine
to
would seem
tachnient to goods and chattels " on the sea, or
within the ebb and flow of the sea." But, by
reference to the 32d, it appears, ihat it is consistent with the practice- of the %admiralty also,
in cases where there is no property ,ahich the
officer can attach by ntt-nucaption, to proceed to
attach goods or credits in the hands of third persons, by means of the sirhple service of a no-,tice.
To all the questions which may be supposed
to arise on this part of the case, we give one
general answer, viz. that as goods and credits in
the hands of a third person, wherever situated,
may be attached b r notice, there cannot be a
reason assigned why the goods themselves, if
accessible, should not be actually attached; and
although it is very clear,, that the process- of attaching by notice seems given as the alternative,
where the officer cannot hav.e access'fo'the goods
themselves, yet all this' may be confided to the
discretion of the Judge who orders the process;
and if the party libellant was entitled to the process atall, the Court was not justified in refusing
it altogether.
4. The libel prays, that the articles attached
may be condemned to answer the demand of the
libellant.
On this subject it is very clear, that the primary object of the attachment is to obtain an ap-

494

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
Manro

V.
Alrneida.

pearance. But, it is equally clear, that upon the
third default in personal actions, the goods, arrqsted were" estreated, and, after a year finally
abandoned to the plaintiff. But as this proceed-

pro. ing was too dilatory for the
The
perty attached
may be con- admiralty, the condemnation
demned upon

movements of the
and sale., after p-oof

of the 'cause of action, was substitited' for it.
There was, therefore, nothing incorrect in uniting the prayer for condemnation with the acknowledged end of forcing an appearance; and
if there had been, it was ,no ground for refusing
relief as far as the claim was sustainable in the
admiralty.
It may be remarked here, that the case is
somewhat embarrassed by the state of the pleadings, inasmuch as, after appearafice, it is hardly
conceivable on what ground the attachment could
be granted. It would seem, that the defendant,
for some cause, had been permitted by the Court
to appear and plead without giving bail to the
action. There are such causes known to the
practice of the civil law, and we are compelled
to take the case as we find it.
The civil It has been further argued, that as the libel
tlot
iemedy
of- alleges the trespass complained of to have been
,:timinal
1,,erged it the
!'eci Of pi- piratically done, the civil remedy merges in the
a derault.

kacy.

crime.

But tl~is we think, clearly, cannot be

maintained.- Whatever may hve been the barbarous doctrines of antiquity about converting
goods piratically taken into droits of the admiralty, the day has long gone by since it gave.way
to a more rational rule, and the party dispossessM was sustained in his remedy to reclaim the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

495

property as not devestedby piratical capture. It 1825.
is hardly necessary to quote authority for this blanro
doctrine, but it will be found to have been the
V.
rule of justice as early as the reports of Croke Almeida.
anid Ventris.
If the party may recover his property, why
not recover the value of it from any goods of
the offender within reach of the admiralty ?
We think the doctrine of merger altogether inapplicable to the case. Even at common law, it
was confined to felonies, and piracy was no feiony
at common law.

On the question, whether the property to be Ttis,,ot ne-.,'.ary
that
attached should have been specified in the libeltte
property
be attached
or process, we have before remarked, that as toshould
be specified
neither the process nor return is before us, welibel. in the
can express no opinion respecting its form.
The libel contains no specification of the articles
to be attached, and if this were fatal, the demurrer might have been sustained. But, pursuing
the analogy with the civil law process to compel
appearance, we can see no reason for requiring
such a specification. There is no reason to
conclude,, that the decree for attachment issued
against the recusant at the civil law, was otherwise than general. And although the other
course may be pursued, and might be most converlient and satisfactory, yet we know of no imperative rule upon the subject. The authority
on which the libel was filed sanctions the general
language in which it is couched.
The last point made in argument was, whether
the process of attachment could issue without an

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

496

order of the Judge. But here, again, we have
remark, that we can take no notice of the cir-

1825.
Stoav

cumstances under which the writ actually did

issue. And, looking to the libel, it appears to
"have been its express object to obtain such an
t.',,, n

Ahneida

order frm the Court. That the process of at,
01.tachment at the civil law did not issue of course,
a. rxpress
the
of
i

der

i, is very well known. It was obtained for contuwith the macy after monition; and analogy, as well as pubsiulteously
lic convenience, would seem to renderthe Judge's
no,,th,,
the
agpi.st
Yet, we see no objection to
el niad,.
vtsl
Kul order necessary.
efedaut,a
isattalcitl'l
pursuing the prayer of the libel, and issuing it
And,.,r',h.
with the nonition ; the purposes
tsiultaneously
u
suod
Judge,

but

may be issued

of justice would seem to require that course.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, that for a
libel,
p'Y"
of thle
of te
it savours of pithiS Cout Wj-maritime trespass, even though
in
it%sAssgula,- racy, the person injured may have his action
' ;sued.
1personam, and compel appearance by the process
mlanniler,
Pursuance
ill

,I
a ...

of attachment on the goods of the trespasser,
according to the forms of the civil law, as ingraftAnd we think
The re,cy ed upon the admiralty practice.
by attachment .
indispensable to the purposes of justice, and
a,,,-it
ill theill nmail
rlty,
s,- the due exercise of the admiralty jurisdiction,
tie
applis'5

t
that the remedy should be applied, even in cases
where the same goods may have been attachable
issuing
,,'under the process of foreign attachment
neceswill
it
For
Courts.
h from the common law

e.' s

th.
Whue
sn e good~
ae ,ibi ,

,o..
sang,,oe

C., I ""I

mo0nlaw.

Com- sarily

follow, in all such cases; that a question

pecqiliarly of admiralty cognisance, will be
brought to be examined before a tribunal not
compttefnt to exercise original admiralty jurisdiction ; and that, as a primary, not an incidental
question : since the whole proeeedins will have

OF

Ht UNITED STEI'ES.

for its object to determine whether a in ritime
trespass has been committed, and then to apply
the remedy.

1825.
The Gran
Para.

Judgmen t reveised, and the cause remanded
for further proceedings.

LPRACTIcE.]

The Consul General oC
PORTUGAL, Libellant.

The GRAN PARA..

Where the Court of Admiralty has parted with the possession of tile
property, upon bail or stipulation, and it'is necessary, for the purposes of justicl, to retake.the property into the custody of the
Court, the proper process against any person not ea party to the
skipulation, but-wNho is alleged to have the actual or constructivi
possession, is a mdnition,*and not an execution, in the first instbnce.

THIS is the same case. which iyas reported
ante, vol. VII. p. 471. and was an:appeal from
prooeedingshad in the Court below, under the.
mandate of this Court in the original cauise.

The cause was argued by Mr. D. Hoffman, .F'eb.e4t7,.
for the appellant, dad by the Aftatney General
and: Mr. Taney, .for the respondo'nt. Bu.t as .the
present determinvtionof the Courit was confined'
to the single point of'practice; without affectfitg
the other question.s 'involved in the cause, it has
Vor..X.

63

