OF THE UNITED STATES.

that the same is a valid entry. It is, therefbre,
ORDERED ald DECREED, that the decree of tile
said Circuit Court, dismissing the plaintiff's bill,
ought to be, and the same is hereby, reversed
and annulled. And this Court is further of opini.rn, that in cases of adversary title, such an adxersary possession as would bar an ejectment,

d;d the plaintiff possess the legal title, constitutes
also a bar to a bill in equity. It is,therefore,
further ORDERED end DEcREED, that this cause
be remanded to the said Circuit Court, with instructions to take such further proceedings therein, conformably to this opinion, as may be agreeable to equity and good conscience. All W~hich
is ordered and decreed accordingly.

[CHANCERY.]

CARNEAL

BANKS,

and others, Appellants, v. BANKS, Respondent.

Appellant, v. CARNEAL and others, Respondents.

The jbindeyr of improper parties, as citizens.of the same State, &ac.
-iqil not affect the jurisdiction of the Circpit Courts in equity, as
between the parties who are' pioperly be.fore the Court, if a decree
may be pronounced as betw*een the parties'who are citizens of the
saipe State.
A decree must be sustained by the allegatiohs of the parties, as well as
by the proofs in the cause, and cannot be founded upon a fact not
put In issue by the pleadins. '

1825.
Curneal

v.
Banks.

Banks
Carneal.

1811-1

At.SES IN THE S'PREME

1825.
\

-_

Carneal
T.
Bn.
Banks
v.
Carneal.
Feb. Qoth.

cOURT

Th: treat% ot 77;::.,etw(,. rte U'nmed ,tates and France, allowed
the 'itizen o -th:tcounuy to hold lands in the other . and the
title, once rested in a French subject, to hold lands in the United
States, %a, 'ot dexsted
v the abiogation of that treaty, and the
expiration of the subsequ1ent convention of ItV00.
Bill to tesci nd a con.,t for the exchange of lands dismissed under
the special circuinztanes of the case.

THESE causes was argued by Mr. Tones, for
Banks, and by Mr. Bibb, foir Carneal and others.

F.eb. E51th.

Mr. Chief Justice

MARSHALL

delivered the opi-

nion of the Court.
These appeals are from a decree of the Circuit
Court for the District of Kentucky, in which Carneal's heirs were decreed to pay Henry Banks
2,500 dollars, for failing to perform a contract
entered into between Thomas Carneal, their ancestor, and the said Henry Banks.
The bill filed by Henry Banks, clharges, that
his agent, Cuthbert Banks, entered into 8 contract with Thomas Carneal, whereby he agreed
to transfer to Carneal the right of the said Banks
in 30,000 acres of land purchased by him from
JohrpHarvie, for which right said Carneal "agrees
to give a tract of 2,000 acres of land on Green
river, patented for Philip Philips, which was
sold out of a tract of 22,100 acres, by Philips, to
Michael Lacassaign, deceased, by said Lacassign to said Carneal, on the goth of July, 1797,
for which land said Carneal is to make a general
warranty deed whenever thereunto -required."
The bill further charges, that Carneaf was
guilty of fraud in pretending to have a good title

OF THE UNITED STATEb.

183

to the said 2,000 acres of land, the whole being 1825.
covered with better titles, and in representing the Carneal
v.
land as much more valuable than it really is. The
Banks.
rescinded,
be
may
contract
the
that
bill prays,
V
and that the • plaintiff may be reinstated in his Banks
Carneal.
rights to the said 30,000acres of land, or have
the value thereof in damages. And that the
heirs of John Harvie, deceased, in whom thelegal title to the said -30,000 acres remains, may
be decreed to convey the same to him.
The heirs of T. Carneal deny all fraud in his
representation of the value Of the land sold to
the plaintiff,. and insist on their ability to convey the same. They admit, that the deed from
Lacassaign to him was not recorded within the
time limited*by law, one of the three subscribing witnesses then required for its proof, having
died -before it was offered to the Court. In consequence of this circumstance, Carneal, in 1779,
instituted a suit in Chancery against Lacagsaign,
to perfect his title, which abated by his death. The
law being so changed as to admit deeds to record
on the oat I{ of two subscribing witnesses, this
deed was recorded in 1814, and the defendants
are willing to convey, if directed so to do.
The defendants farther state, that the plaintiff's

original claim on the said 30,000 acres of land,
was to only a moiety thereof, the other moiety
being the property of the locator, which has been
transferred to-the de.fendants. The said Banks
assigned the survey to J. Hlarvie, that the patent
might issue in his name, in trust for the person
entitled to the locator'q moiety. and the title still

CASI-a IN THE SLPREME COURT

1825. remains in Harvie's heirs, clicunibcred by debts
....t-ue from Banks to Harvic, and by an obligation in
Carneal
which Harvie was bound to Thomas Madison, as
13:111s.

surety for Banks for the conveyance of military

"P.nks

lands northwest of the Ohio.

c,,,.e.,

To obtain a title

from Harvie, the said Carneal, in Sept-ember.
1799, bound himself to pay the debt -due from
Banks, with Harvie as his-security, to Madison,
on condition that Banks would deliver him military land warrants to the ambunt of 4,300 acres;
and it was expressly stipulated, dhat Carneal
should retain the title to the said 2,000 acres of
land, until Banks should perform this contract.
He requires the plaintiff to show how he has performed it. They understand that Harvie's heirs
have a claim on the estate of their ancestor, of
which they know nothing certain, and aver, that
the title to the locator's moiety of the said 30,000
acres of land, remains in the said heirs. The
defendants, then, pursuing a practice authorized
by law in the State Courts of Kentucky, pray
that their answer may be received as a cross bill;
and that Halvie's heirs, as well as Banks, may be
made defendants to it, and may answer it ; and
that the whole controversy may be settled.
On the 20th of September, 1799, J. H. conveyed to T. C. the moiety of the said patent for
30,000 acres, which had beiia sold by the said
Banks to Carneal.
On the same day, the follQwing agrceme-it was
,ntered into:
Thomas Cari-feal agrees to pay John Preston.
of military land,
,r .Tolwi [-,r;,,.?O ave

OP THE UNITED STATES.

lying on the northwest side of the river Ohio,
surveyed on or before the 10th day of October,
1795, to satisfy a bond executed by the. said John
Harvie, as security for Henry Banks, to Thomas
•
Madison, deceased, dated the 6th day of'December, 1795; provided the said Carneal shall receive
from Cuthbert Banks, ih Kentucky, 4,300 acres
of military dontinen tal land warrants, within
ninety days after the said Carneal shall -make
demand of them of Cuthbert Banks, in Lexington, in Kenticky; and provided the said Carneal
shall not receive the warrants, he will not; afterwards, be bound to take them-unless he please&
Henry Banks agrees that he will furnish the .said'
4,300' acres of military land warrants, through
the agency of Cuthbert Banks, within the time
above mentioned; and if he fails to do so, and
the said Thomas Carneal satisfy the.. bond for
military land due the estate of the said Thbmas
Madison, as aforesaid, by the said H. B. and J.
H., ii such case.the :sai,d H. B. obliges himself to
satisfy and pay off the said obligation, accordingto .its.true value, upon the application of the said
Thomas C~rneal, or still to give the 4 ,.00 acres
of military land warrants, at the option of the
said Carneal." .Signedby H. B. and T. C.
There are letters from J. H. to T. C., the last
dated the 3d of March, 1802, not long before his
death, urging T. 0. to satisfy the debt to the
estate of T. M.

-The answer of Banks to what is termed the
cross *bill, states, that he has sued Madison's representatives. in Virgiriia, to compel them to re,,
VOL. X

1825.
Carneal
V.
Bki.

Banks
V.

Carn i;

186

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

ceive a compensation in muney fbr the military

'
Carneal

lands he was bound to pay, there being no lands
which are within the description of the obligation;
and that the suit is still depending.
The'parties agree that the debt to Madison is
not satisfied, and that the representatives of J.
H. hold an obligation of T. C., deceased, for payment of the same, or as .indemnification to H., as
referred .to in the answer and pleadings in the
same.
In May, 1819, the plaintiff' filed
-an amended
bill, stating that Michael Lacassaing was an alien,
and never became a citizen of the United States.
That his deed, being proved by only two witnesses, could not pass the title to T. C. That
Carneal knew his title to 4e defective when he
sold. to Banks. That Lacassaing left no heirs
in this .ountry, and h as made. some person in
France his residuary, legatee. That there are
debts and judgments against him to a large
amount, which bind the land.
The answer aidmits Lacassaing to have been a
Frenchman, but not an alien. That he emigrated
early to this country, before and at the close of
The war, and continued a citizen till his death.
They insist that the legal title passed, by the
deed of the said Lacassaing, and deny that the
landis encumbere.d.
The Circuit Court was of opinion, that.*ue
c.ontract between Bank's*apd Carneal required
that the tract .of2,000 acgesf which Carneal bound
himself to convey to Banks, should be a tract
lying on Green river, and that as the land did

v.
Banks.
Banks

V.

6arneai.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

not touch the river in any part, it did not corre- •1825.
'*
pond with, and could not satisfy the contract. The IC~rneal
Court therefore directed an issue to ascertain.

v.

the average value of 2,000 acres, part of the. land
granted to Philips, to bind on the river.; and on

Ba"ks.

receiving the verdict of the jury, directed its

'Carneal.

amount, with interest -thereon, to be paid to the
plaintiff.
From.this decree both parties have appealed;.
and the counsel for Carneal's heirs assign for
error,
1. That the Circuit Court bad. no jurisdiction.
2.. That there is no allegation that the land
- does not, in point of location, fit the description
of it in the contract.
3. That the plaintiff has no right to relief in
equity, until he xeleases Carneal' representatives from their undertaking to Harvie ; and Carneal's heirs have a right in equity to retain the
land as an indemnity for that undertaking..
4. If Banks can recover on the agreement, his
remedy is at-law.
5. The decree against the heirs peisonally is
erroneous. They are not named in the contiact,
and the statute of Kentucky does not authorize.
a suit against them personally in such a 'ase.

L.. The objection to the jurisdiction 'of the
that Banks' statds'himfounded
Court
sdlf, inishis
-bill, toonthis;
be a citizen of Virgin:a, and
.does not state the heirs of Harvid to be c tizeiis
of Kentucky. They are, in truth, citiz ns of
Virgiriia.

Banks

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

If the validity of this objection, so far as reCarnealI spects Harvie's heirs, be unquestionable, it canv.
not affect the suit against Cgrneal's heirs, unless
Banks. it be indispensable to bring Harvie's heirsbefore
Banks
the Court, in order to enable it to decree against
Carneal. Carneal's heir . This is not the case.
Harvie
Joinder of had conveyed to Carneal, Banks moiety of the
hPoer par- 30,000 acre tract of land, so that his heirs have
affetng j,r- no lien upon it; and they ziever had a claim on
Court.
the 2,Oft acre"tract. They are made defendants
by Banis, under the ide.a that the title to the
land sold by him to Carneal was in them; but
this is a mistake. ' The title to that .lnd was in
.Carneal's heirs; and Banks can have no claim
on the locator's moiety, the title'to which seems
to have been.retained by Harvie. The bill, theretore, as to Harie's heirs, may be dismissed,
Without in any manner affecting the suit against
Carneal's heirs. That they. have been improperly made defdndants in his bill, cannot affect
the jurisdictio'n of the- Court as between those.
partibs who are properly before it. It is thE matter contained in 'what ,is termed the cross bill,
which may bring Harvie's heirs into the cause;
and in that* suit they would be proper. parties,
were they to appear, becatise the plaintiffs in it
are all citizens of Kentucky,.and the defendants
appear to be 11 citizens of Virginia.a
,lisrepreper
.Th second error assigned has more weight.
fatin n t 'aThe
variance between ihe location of the land
viII."De.cree
nImtl6t be sceun$&mallegala.

a Vite.arite, Worinley v. Wormley, and .note a. Vol. VIII. p.
451.

Kerr v. Watts, vol. VI. p. 558.

v,JIL p. 591.

Cameron v. M'Rberts,

Russel v. Clark. 7 Cranch,.b02.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sold by 'Qarneal to Banks, and the description of 1825.
it in the eohtract, is not averred in the bill, and Carneal
.
is, consequently, not put in issue. The maxim,
that a decree must be sustained by the allga- Bank
tions of the parties, as well as by the proofs in Banks
the cause, is too well established to be disregard- Carneal.
ed. It is, on this fact only, that the Circuit Court*
has rescinded the 6ontiact, and we do not think
there is any other. in the cause which would justify its being set aside. The alleged alienage
of Lacassaign constitutes no objection. Had
the fact been proved, this Court decided, in the
case of Chirac v. Chirac,(reported in 2 Wheat.
"Rep."259.) that the treaty of 1778, letween the
United States and France, secures to the citizens
and subjects of either power the privilege of
holding lands in the territory of the other; and
the omission' to record the deed in. time, may involve the title in difficulty, but does not afinul it.
That circumstance might oppose considerable
obstacles to a decree for a specific performance,
if sought by Carneal's heirs, but does not justify a
decree to sdt aside the contract. There is no subsequent purchasei, noris it certain, that the title
which Carneal's heirs can make, will or can ever
be disturbed by the creditors of iLacassaign.. In
such a State of things, there is, perhaps, no sufficient cause for the interference of a Court of
*equity. Did this Court, then, concur with the
Circuit Court in its construction of the contract
between Banks and (Carneal, the decree could
not be affirmed, because the parties haire n6t put
that fact in issue. But the majority is rather dis-

CASES IN rHF SL PREML COURT

1825.

posed to the opinion, that the words " lying on
Green river," as used in this contract, with refei ence to a specific conveyance expressly mentionBanks. ed, which contains within itself information which
Banks
could not fail to suggest the idea that the land
V.
CarneaI. did not, in fact, bind on the river, may be satisfied with the land actually conveyed by Lacassaign to Carneal. The omission of Banks to
charge.Carneal with a misrepresentation in this
respect, countenances this explanation.. At all
events, the fact, if relied upon by him, ought to
have been put in issue, so as to give Carneal's
heirs an opportunity of controverting it, and of
bringing before the Court such facts as might
shed light upon it.
Were this construction to be established, and
were there no equitable objections tb allowing
Banks the full benefit of'his contract, a specific
performance migbP be decreed; but the bill seeks
to rc-cind the contract, and contains no prayer
for general relief.
There are, too, on the part of Carneal's heirs,
weighty objections to such a decree at thi time.
Plaintiff not
3. The third error assigned is, that Banks has
e tided to relief-ntil
he inno right to relief in equix=-til ,he releases Cardefndns f,neal's.representatives hnOm their undertaking to
Carneal
V.

tIeobintioeo Harvie; and Carneal's heirs have a right in equity
their ancestor to
oh his accouht.

retain the title to the 2,000 acres of land, as
an indemnity for that undertaking.
The testimony on this part of the cause is far
from being satisfactory.
The coptract of the 20t- .of September, 1799,
is expressed in such vague termsz as to leave it in

OF THE UNITED STATES.

some measure doubtful whether Carneal would 1825.
not have been discharged from the obligation it
V.
imposed, on the failure of Cuthbert Banks to deBanks.
stiit
which
for
warrants
liver the military land
pulates within ninety days after they should be Banks
demanded in Lexington. But it does not appear Carneal.
that they have ever been demanded; and the
fact that Harvie's conveyance of the land sold
by Banks to Carneal, was executed on the same
dAy with this contract, goes far in showing, that
the parties underSitood the obligation of Carneal
to be absolute. The subsequent letters of Harvie to Carneal, show his opinion, that the obligation of the contract continued; and the admission
of Banks, in the cause, goes to the same point.
The Court must, therefore, consider Carneal's
heirs as still liable for thie debt due from Banks,
with Harvie as his security, to Madison's estate.
It is alleged, that Banks agreed, that the title
to the 2,000 acres of land should remain in Carneal as an indemnity for this undertaking; but
this allegation is totally unsupported by evidence.
Carneal's heirs also charge, that they, or some
of them, have purchased the interest of the locator
in the 30,000 acre tract, and that Harvie's heifs
retain the title till Madison's claim shall be adjusted; but of this there is no proof.
Since, however, the legal title to the land sold
by Carneal to Banks, remains in the heirs of the
vendor, the Court is not satisfied that equity will
force it from them, or compel them to make compensation in money for any breach of the contract.

192
1825.
"taking

M'Ccrm;ck
Sullivant.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

until Banks shall indemnify them f6r the underof their ancestor on his account.

Its unnecessary to proceed farther in the examination of this case, because the Court is of
opinion, that for the errors already stated, the decree of the Circuit Court ought to be reversed,
and the bill be dismissed without prejudice.
Decree reversed.

[C AN'CEaY.

M'CORMICK

RThs ADJUDICATA.

LEx Loci.]

and Wife and others, Appellants,
V.

SULLIVANT

and others, Respondents.

The Courts of the United States are Courts of limited, but not of
.izfer orjurisdicti6n. If the jurisdiction be not alleged in tile
proceedings, their judgments and decrees nsay be reversed for that
cause, on a writ of error and appeal ; but, until reversed, they are
conclusive evidence between parties and privies.
Th'title and disposition of real property is governed by the lex" loci
roisite.
The title to lands can only pass by devise, according to the laws of
the State or country where the lands lie., The probate in one State,
or country, is of no validity as affecting the title to lands in another.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Ohio.
The appellants filed their bill in equity in the
Court below, setting forth. that Willihm Craw-

