OF THE UNITED STATES.

1825.
U. S. Bank
V.
Bank
or
[PROMISSORY NOTE.

PAYMENT.)

The PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, and

COMPANY OF THE
The PRESI-

BANK OF THE UNITED STATES V.

DENT,

DIRECTORS,

and

COMPANY OF THE BANK

OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
In general, a payment received in forged paper, or in any base coin,
is not good ; and if there be no negligence in the party, he may
recover back the consideration paid for them, or sue upon his original demand.
But this principle d6es not apply to a payment made bona fidje to a
Bank, in its own notes, which are received as cash, and afterwards
discovered to be forged.
In case of such a payment upon general account, an action may be
maintained by the party paying the notes, if there is a balance due
hini from the Bank upon their general account, either upon an insimulcompulassent, or as for money had and received.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Georgia.
This was an action of assumpsjt, brought by the
plaintiffs in error, the President, &c. of the Bank
of the United States, against the defendants in
error, the President, &c. of the Bank of the State
of Georgia, in which the plaintiffs declared for
the balance of an account stated, and for money
had, and. received to their use. At the trial, the
plaintiffs offered evidence, to prove, that mutual dealings -existed between -the parties, in the
course of which, each being in the receipt of the
bills, of the other, they mutually paid in or deposited the bills of the other party, at intervals, as

Georgia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

334
1825.

each f6und the bills of the other party had accukmulated to any considerable amount in their re-

.S.Bksective
Bankof

Georg

vaults; and upon each of such payments

or deposits, the amount thereof was entered as
somuch "cash" in the customer's book of the
party depositing, by the proper officer of the
Bank receiving the same; from which said book
of the plaintiffs, which ivas given in evidence, it
appeared that the sum of 6,900 dollars was. the
balance due from the defendants to the plaintiffs,
at the time of instituting this action. The plaintiffs also offered evidence, that the transactions
between the parties were almost exclusively in
the deposits of their respective bills as aforesaid.
And the dbfendants, to maintain their said defence, offered evidence to prove, that in one of
the said deposis so made by the plaintiffs, in the
bank of the defendants, and so entered in .ihe
said book of the plaintiffs by the proper officer
of the defendants, at the time the said deposit
was made, to wit, on the 25th of F-bruary, in the
year 1819, and which is one of the-items com-,
prised in the account upon whiich, the balance
was'claimed by the plaintiffs, there were paid in
38 bills of the defendants' own issues or notes,
of 5 dollars each,, Which had been fraudulently
altered by some person or persons-, unknown,
from the denomination of 5 to that of 50; and 40
bills of the defendants' own issues or notes of
10 dollars each, which had in like manner been
fraudulently altered by some person or persons
unknown, to that of hundreds, making together
the sum of 5,900 dollars, demanded by the plain-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

335

tiffs in this action; which said bills or notes had .18-25.
been subsequently tendered by the defendants to

the plaintiffs, before the institution of this action,
and by the plaintiffs refused. The plaintiffs t.hen
offered evidence to prove that no notice or intimation of the said fraudulent alteration aforesaid
was given by the defendants to. the plaintiffs,
until the 16th of March, 1819, and that the tender
to return the said altered notes to the plaintiffs
by the defendants, was not made until the 17th
of March, 1819, nineteen days' after the receipt
of the said notes by the defendants from the
plaintiffs, and the entry of the same in the customer's book o" the plaintiffs. The defendants
further offered evidence to prove, that the said
altered bills, so deposited by the plaintiffs and
received by the defendants, had been received
by the plaintiffs from the Planters' .and Merchants' Bank of Huntsville, concerning which
notes a correspondence. had taken placebetween
the plaintiffs a.nd the said Planters' and Merchants' Bank of Huntsville, subsequently tothe
detection of the said -fraudulent alteration, in the
followirig words and figures, to wit:
OFFICE BANK U. STATES,

Savannah, 17th of Mhtrch, 1819.
EDWARD RAWLINS, Esq.
CashierP. and Merchants' Bank of THuntsville.
SIR-Upon a more minute investigation of the
bills received last month from Mr. Hobson, of
your bank, it turns.out that-40-of the 100 dollar
notes of the State Bank of .this place, were al-

U. S. Bank

V.of
Bank
Georgia

S36

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tered from 10 dollars, and 58 of'the 50 dollar
notes of the same bank were altered from 5
notes, producing against us a difference in
. ofSncollar
Bank
Gorgia. the 100 dollar notes of 3,600 dollars, and in the
f825.

50, 2,610 *dollars, making the whole difference
6,210 dollars. By the person which we shall in
a few days send to.your place, as heretpfore intimated, we will forward thqse altered bills f6r the
purpose of getting you to exchange them for
other money.
ELEAZAR EARLY, Cashier.
P. S. Herein I enclose, for your future security, the official notice of the banks of Georgia,
pointing out the difference between the genuine
E. E. Cashier.
and altered bills
OFFICE BANK U. 9TATES,

Savannah, 25th March, 1818.
LE Roy POPE, Esq.
PresidentBank Huntsville.
SIR-Will you suffer me to introduce to your
acquaintance and kindness, the bearer, Mr. Heinemann, our teller, whose objects have already been
imparted to you in my letters of 23d February,
and 13th inst. (copies in Mr. H.'s possession,) and
which, we doubt not, will receive every facility
from your institution. Mr. Heinemann is also
instructed to lay before you formal notice of a
claim which we shall make on your bank -fo'r the
spurious notes received from Mr. Hobson, in the
event of our being cast in the suit about to be
brought between the Bank of Georgia and our-

uF THE UNITED STATES.

selves in the case. It has been deemed a better
course than that proposed in our Cashier's letter
to Mr. Rawlins, your Cashier, of the 17th inst.
and will, no doubt, be more ag-eeable to you,
Your obedient servant,
R. RICHARDSON, President.
PLANTERS AND MERCHANTS' BANK
OF HUNTSVILLE, 4th Mfay, .1819.
SIR-Your favour under date of the 25th, has
been handed me by Mr. Heinemann, wherein you
give me notice,'that your bank holds this institution bound to make good the amount of the spurious notes which you say was received from Mr.
Hobson, in the event of your being east in a suit
about to be brought between the Bank of Georgia and yourselves.. I am direct'd by the Board
of Directors to state to you, that they highly approve-of the course your bank have adopted in
regard to these spurious notes, and we shall cheerfully"acquiesce with the.decision of the Court, let
that be what if may.
I am, respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
LE ROY POPE, Pr.esidcnt.
A. RiCHARDsoN, Esqt.
President Offlce Bank United State.
,s-avannah.

And the plaintiffs further offered evidence to
prove, that the officers of the defendants, at the
time of.'receiving the said altered notes, had in
their possession a certain book, called the bank
- OL. X.

4.3

1825.
U. S. Bank

V.of
Bank
Georgia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

note register of the said Bank of the State of

U.. S. Bank

Georgia, wherein were registered, and recorded,

V.of
Bank
Grorgia.

payees'
and the
letter,
number,
the
said
issued by
everamount,
the notes
of all
name,date,
bank, by means of which, and by reference whereto, the forgeries or alterations aforesaid could
have been promptly and satisfactorily detected;
and further, tbat- so far as related to the said
notes purporting to be the notes of 100 dollars,
all the genuine notes of the defendants of that
amount in circulation on the said-25th of February, 1819, were marked with the letter A., ihereas twenty-three of the notes of 100 dollars each,
so received by the defendants as genuine notes,
when in fact they were altered notes, bore the
letters B., C. or D.
And the defendants further offered evidence to
prove, that the alteration in the said notes consisted in extracting the ink of certain printed figures
and words which expressed the amount of said
notes, and substituting therefor other printed
-figures and vgords; the signatures, and every other
partof said notes, remaining unaltered. Where.upon, the parties having offered the above evidence, the plaintifls prayed the Court.
1. To instruct the jury, that if they believed the
said evidence, the said platntiffs were entitled to
recover of the said defendants the whole sum of
6,900 dollars, being the balance so exhibited by
their customer's-book aforesaid, and as due from
the said defendants to the said plaintiffs; which
instructiln the Judges aforesaid. being divided

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in opinion, refused to give ; and the counsel for
the plaintiffs excepted to the refusal.

.1825..
U. S. Bank

2. The plaintiffs prayed the Court to instruct Bank
Y.of
the jury, that if they believed the evidence so Georgfa.
given, the plaintiffs were entitled to recover of
the defendants the sum of 690 dollars, being the
original value of the alt6red notes; which in:
struction the said Judges, being divided in opinion, did not give; to which refusal the- said
counsel for the plaintiffs excepted.
3. The plaintiffs prayed the Court to instruct.
the jury, that if they believed the evidence so
given, the plaintiffs were entitled to recover of
the defendants the whole sum of 6,900 dollars,
being the balance so exhibited by their customer's
bo.ok aforesaid, as due from the. defendants to
the plaintiffs, with legal interest thereon from
the day of instituting their action aforesaid;
which instruction the Judges aforesaid, being
divided, in opinion, refused to give.; to which refusal the counsel for the plaintiffs excepted..
Judgment being rendered upon this bill of exceptions, for the defendants in the Court below,
the cause was orought, by writ of error, to this
Couirt.
It was insisted, on the part of tfie plaintifis
that the judgment ought to be reversed, on the
following grounds;
1. That what took place on the 25th of February, 1819, between the parties, was not only
equiyalent to- payment, but was payment itself;
and the defendants ar6., in all respects, to be con.

CASES IN TIlE SUPREME COURT

340
1825.
U. S. Bank

V.

Bank of
Georgia.

sidered as if they were suing to recover back the

money.
2. That if understood only as an acceptance,
or agreement to pay, the principle would still be
the same.
3. That, in either case, the plaintiffs were entitled to recover.

.March14th.

The cause was argued by, Mr. Sergeant, for
the plaintiffs,' and by Mr. Berrien, for the defendants.'

,Mearch18th.

Mr. Justice STORY delivergd the opinion of the
Court.
This is a case of great importance in a practical view, and has been very fully argued upon
The Bank of Georgia having or-

its merits.

a He cited Bolton v Richards, 6 Term Rep. 139. - The Man.
hattan Company v. Lidig, 4 Johns. Rep. 377. Levy v. Bank of
United States, 4 Dall. Rep. 234. S. C. I Binn. Rep. 27. Chitty on Bills,. 483. Smith v. Chester, I Term Rep. 655. Bass v.
Clive, 4 Maul 8f Seiw. 15. Alaster v. Miller;' 4 Term Rep. 320.
Barber v. Gignell, 3 Esp. N. P. 60. Jordain v. Lashbrook, 7
Term Rep. 60a. Price v. Neal, 3 Burr. Rep. 1354.. Jones z.
Ryde, 5 Taunt. Rep. 488. Markle v. Hatfield, 2 Johns. Rep.
462. Gloucester Bank v. Salem Bank, 17 Mass. Rep. 33. Smith
v. Mercer, 6 Taunt. Rrp. 76. Meade v. Young, 4 Term Rep.
28. Jenys v. Fowler, 2 Str. Rep. 946.
b He cited Gates v. Winslow, 1 Mass. Rep. 66. Mleade v.
Young, 4 Term Rep. 28. Kyd on Bills, 202, 203. Lambert v.
Oakes, 1 Lord Raym. 443. Union Bank v. Bank U. S. s Mass.
Rep. 74. 1 Johns. Cas. 145. 5 Johns. Rep. 61 2 Term Rep.
366. Buller v. Harrison, Cowp. Rep. 565. Miller v Race, I
Burr.Rep. 457. 2 Evans' Pothier.19. 495. Toby v. Barber.
z, Johns. Rep. 72.

OF TilE UNITED STATES.

ginally issued the bank notes in question, they
were, in the course of' circulation, fraudulently.
altered, and having found their way into the Bank

U. S. Batik

of the United States, the latter presented them

Georgia.

1825.
V. of
Bank

to the former, who received them as genuine,
aMd placed them to tht general account of the
Bank of the United States, as cash, by way of
general deposit. The forgery was not discovered until nineteen days afterwards, upon which,
notice was duly given, and a tender of the notes
was made to the Bank of the United States, and
by them refused. Both parties are equally innocent of the fraud, and it is not disputed, that
the 'Bank of the United States were holders,
bonafide, for a valuable consideration. Under
these circumstances, the question arises, which
of the patties is to bear the loss, or, in other
words, whether the plaintiffs are entitled. to recover, in this action, the amount Qf this deposit.
Some observations have been made as to the "rl: ,,,r.,,
form of the action, the declaration embracingaction.
counts for the balance of an account stated, as
well as for money had and received, &c. But, if
the plaintiffs are entitled to recover at all, we see
no objection to a recovery upon either of these
counts. The sum sued for is the balance due
upon the general account of the parties, and it is
money had and received to the use of the plaintiffs, i, the transaction entitled the plaintiffs to
consider the deposit as money, It is, clearly.
not the case of a special deposit, where the identical thing was to be restored by the defendantsthe notes were paid -as money upon general "e-

342

CASES IN THE SUPREME CQ4JRT

1825. count, and deposited as such; so that, according
to the course of business, and the understanding
of the parties, the identical notes were not to be

B
T S. Bank
U.

V.of
Bank
Georgia.

restored, but an equal amount in cash. They
passed, therefore, into the general funds of the
Bank of Georgia, and becume the property bf
the bank. The action has, therefore; assumed
the proper shape, and if it is maintainable upon
the merits, there is no difficulty in poiht of form.

We maylay out of the case, at once, all consideof the point, how far the defendants would
but this ,oeshave been liable, if these notes had. been the
*
not apply to a
bank, deposited by the plainnotes of any other
payment
fa
bona.ihB
made,
ide, to a han.tUH, in the Bank of Georgia; as cash. That might
own
in its
depend upon a variety of considerations, such as
notes.
the usages of banks, and the implied contract resulting from their usual dealings with their customers, and upon thre general principles of law
applicable to cases of this nature. The modern
authorities certainly do, in a strong manner, assert, that a payment- received in forged paper, or
in any base coin, is not good; and that if there
be no negligence in the party; he may recover
back the consideration paid for them, or sue upon
his original, demand. To this effect are the authorities cited at the bar, and particularly Maiile v. IHatfield, (2 Johns. Rep. 455..) Young v.
Adams, (6 Mass. Rep. 182.) and Jones v. Ryde,
(5 Taunt. Rep. 488.) But, without entering
upon any exaimination of this doctrine, it is sufficient to say, that the present is not such a case.
The notes in question were not the notes of anotier bank. or the security of a third person, but
hI

general, a

in
ayr'it
paper; ration
not god
is yM.,l

OF THE UNITED STATES.

they were received and adopted by the bank as
its own genuine notes, in the most absolute and

343
1825.
US.Bank

-unconditional manner.. They were treated as

V.of
Bank

cash, and carried to the credit of the plaintiff in

Georgia.

the same manner, and with the same general intent, as if they had been genuine notes or coin.
Many considerations of public convenience
'and policy would authorize a distinction between
cases where & bank receives forged notes pur
porting to be its own, and those where it receives
the notes of other banks in payment, or upon
general deposit. It has the benefit of circulating
its own notes as currency, and commanding
thereby the public confidence. It is bound to
know its own paper, and provide for its payment,
and must -be presumed to use all reasonable
means, by private marks and otherwise, to'secure
itself against forgeiries ayid impositions. In point
of fact, it is well known, that every bank is in the
habit of iiging secret .marks, and peculiar chaI-acters, for this.purpose; and of keeping a regular
register of all the notes it issues, sQ as to guide
its own discretion, as to its discounts- and circulation, -and to enable it.to detct frauds. Its own
security, not.lesi 'than that of the public, requires
such precautions
Under such circumstances, the reeeipt by a
bank bf forged- notes, purporting to be its own,
must.be deemed an adoption of them. It has the
means of knowing if they are genuine; if these
means are not employed, it is certainly evidence
of a'neglect of that. duty, which the pubiic have
a right to 'require. .And.in respect to.,persons

344

CASES IN THE SUPREME UOl'r

equally innocent, where one is bound to know
U. S. Bank
act upon his knowledge, and thc other has
aand
be no
of knowledge, there seems to loss in
ro means
V,
Georgia. reason for burthening the latter with any
exoneration of the former. There is nothing
u neonscientious in retaining thi sum received
f'rom the bank in payment of such notes, which
its own acts have deliberately assumed to be
genuine. If this doctrine he applicable to
ordinary cases, it must apply with greater
strength to cases where the forgery has not been
detected until after a considerable lapse of time.
The holder, under such'circumstances, may not
be able to ascertain friom whom lie received
them, or the situation of the other parties may be
ecssentially elanged. Proof of actual damage
may not always be within his reach; and -therefore to'confine the remedy to cases of that sort
would fall far short of the actual grievance. The
law will, therefore, presume a damage actual or
potential, sufficient to repel any claim against
the holder. Even in relation to forged bills of
third persons received in payment of a debt,
there has been a qualification engrafted on the
general doctrine, that the notice and return must
be 'within a reasonable time; and any neglect
will absolve the payer from responsibility.
f, indeed, we were to apply the doctrine of
negligence to the present case, there are circumstances strong to show a want, of due diligence
and circumspection on the part bf the Bank of
Georgia. It appears from the statement of facts,
that all 41he Lrenuine notes of that bank of the de1825.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

U5

nomination of 100 dollars, in circulation at this 1825..
time, were marked with the letter A; whereas U. S. Bank
V..
twenty-three of the forged notes of 100 dollars
ia.
G
These
D.
and
C,
B,
letter
the
of
bore the marks
facts were known to the defendants, but unknown to the plaintiffs; so that by ordinary circumspection the fraud might have been detected.
The argument against this view of the subject,
derived from the fact, that the defendants have
received no consideration to raise a promise to
pay this sum, since the notes were forgeries, is
certainly not of itself sufficient. There are many cases in the law, where.the party has received
no legal consideration, and yet in which, -ifhe
has paid the money, he cannot recover it back;
and in which, if he has merely promised to pay, it
may be recovered of him. The first dlass of
cases often tdrns upon the point, whether in
good faith and conscience the money can be
justly retained; in the latter, whether there has
been a credit thereby given to or by a third per,
son, whose interest may be mateiially affected
by the transaction. So that, to apply the doctrine of a want of consideration to any case, we
must look to all the circumstances, and decide
upon them all.
Passing from- thes.e general considerations, it
is material to inquire, how, in analogous cases,
the law has dealt with this matter. The present
case does .not, indeed, appear to have been in
t.erms decided in any Court; but if principles
have been already established' which ought to
VOL. X.

4

W4

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. govern it, then it is the duty of the Court to follow 'out those principles on this occasion.
The case has been argued in two respects;
Boank o first, as a case of payment, and, secondly, as a
Georgia.
case of acceptance of the .notes.
This is a In reapect to the first, upon the fullest examina-.
case of actual
pay.ent.
tion of the facts, we are of opinion, fhat it is
a case of actual payment. . We treat it, in. this
respect, exactly 'as the parties have treated it,
that is, as a case where the notes have been paid
and credited as cash. The notes have not been
credited as notes, or as .a special deposit; but
tie transaction is precisely the same as if the
money had been first paid. to the plaintiffs, and
instantaneously the same money lhad been deposited by them. It can make no difference
that
the same agent is -employed by both parties, the
one to receive,- and the other to pay and oredit.
Upon what principle is it, then, that the Court is
called upon to construe the act different from the
avowed intention of the parties? It is not a case
where the law construes an act done with one
intent to be a different. act, for the purpose of
makilig it available in law; to do that, cy. pres,
Which would be defective-in its direct form. Here
the parties- were at, liberty to treat it as they
"pleased, either as a payment of money, or as a
credit of the notes; In either way it was a legal
proceeding, effectual aid perfect;. and- as no reason exists. for a different construction, we think
that the parties, by treating it as a cash deposit,
must be deemed to have considered -it as paid in
money, and then deposited; since that is-the only
B
U. S. Bank

.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

way in which it could legally become, or be treated as cash.

Nor is there any novelty in this

I347

1825.
U. S. Bank

V.
view of the transaction. Bank notes constitute
a part of the common currency of the country, Georgia.
and, ordinarily, pass as money. When they are
notes
of
a part
received as payment, the receipt is always given-areRank
currency
asthe
tender
good
a
counof the
for them as money. They are

theypass
money, unless specially objected to; and, astry;
as money; and

are a good tensperderjunless
Lord Mansfield observed, in Miller
.
. v. Race,
"
(1 Burr. Rep. 457.) they are not,. like bills Ofcany objected
exchange, considered as mere securities or docu- to.
ments for debts. If this be true in respect to
bank notes in general, it applies, a fortiori, to
the notes of the bank which receives them; for
they are then treated as money received by the
baik, being the representative of so much money
admitted to be in its vaults for the use of the depositor. 'The same view was taken of this point
in the case of Levy v. The Bank. of the United
;States, (4 Dall. Rep. 234. -S. .C+I Binn. Rep.
27.) where a forged check had been accepted by
the bank, and carried to the credit of thaeplintiff (a depositor) as cash, and upon a subsequent
discovery of the fraud, the bank refused to pay
the amount. The Court there said, " it is our
opinion, that when the check was credited to the
plaintiff as cash, it was the same thing as if it
had been paid; it is for the interest of the bank
that it should be so taken. In the latter case, the
bank would have appeared as plaintiffs; and
every mistake which could have been corrected
in an action by them, may be corrected in this
action. and none other.2 ' The case of Bolt?

C*SES IN THE SUPREME COURT

V. Richards,(6 D. 4- E. 138.) is not, in all its cirdirectly in point; but, there, the
W'.S..BBank cumstances
the Court manifestly, considered the carrying of
v.
Bank of
,geoy.. a check to the. credit of a party, was equivaleni
to the transfer of so much money in the hands
of the banker, to his account.
Considering, then, the credit in this cas6 as a
payment of. the notes,' the question arises, whether, after a payment, the defendants would. be
permitted, to recover 'the money back.; if they
wo..uld not, then they havei-,o right- to retain, the
money, and the plaintiffs are entitled to a recov9ery in the-present suit.
-c~s, dr 1n Price V. Neale, (3 Burr. Rep. 1355.) there
4".pl bills of
were two bills .of exchange, Which had been paid
4cba ge.
by the drawe'e, the drawer's handwriting being 'a
fbrgery; one of these bills had been paid, when
it becamedue, without acceptance;, the other was
duly accepted, and paid at maturity. Upon diseovery of the fraud, the drawee brought an acti6n -against the holder to recover back the money
so paid, both parties being admitted to be equally
innocent. Lord Mansfield, after .adverting tp the
naturb 6f the action, which Was for money had
and. reeeived, in which no recovery could, be 'had,
Iless itbe against con cience for .the defendant
tb retain it, and that it could not be affirmed that
itwas .neonscientiousTor the defendant to retain
it, he having paid a 'fair and- valuable consider.ation for the bills; said, ' here was no fraud, no
wroAg. It was inicumbent upop the plaintif to
besatisfied.-that the bill drawn upon him .was
4Ae drawer's hand, "before he aeceptkd or paid'it.
1925.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

349

But it was not incumbent upon the defendant to 1825.
inquire into it.

There was notice given by the

U. S. Bank

defendant to the plaintiff, of a bill drawn upon B.
Bank of
him, and he sends his servant to pay it, and take Georgia.
it up. 'The other bill he- actually accepts, after
which, the defendant, innoceittly and bona fide,
discounts it. The plaintiff lies by for a considerable time after he has paid these bills, and.then
found out. that they were forged. He made no
objection to them at the time of paying them.
Whatever neglect there Was, was on his side.
The defendant had actual encouragement from
the plintiff for negotiating the second bill, from
the plaintiff's having, without any scruple or hesitation, paid the first ; and he paid the whole value
bonafide. It is a misfortune which has happened
without the defendant's fault or neglect. If there
was. no neglect in the plaintiff, yet there -isno
reason to throw off the loss fr6m one innocent
man upon another innocent man. - But, in this.
'case, if there was any fault or.negligence in any
one, it certainly was in the plaintiff, and not in
the defendant." The whole reasoning of this
case applies with full force to that now before the
Court. In regard to the first bill, there was no
new credit given by any acceptance, and the
holder was in possession of it before the time it
was paid or acknowledged. So that there is no
pretence to allege, that there is any legal distinc-.
kiQn between the.case of a holder'before or after
the acceptance. Both were treated in tins judgment as being in the same predicament, and entitled to the ilame-equities. The case of NeW v.

0

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. Price has never since been departed from; and,
all the subsequent decisions in which it has
Sin
U. S. Bink
V.
been
cited, it has had the uniform support of the
Bank of
ot. gia. Court, and has been deemed a satisfactory authority. The case of Smith v. Mercer, (6 Taunt.
14ep. 76.) was a stronger application of the principle. There, the acceptance was a forgery, and
it' purported to be payable at the plaintiff's, who
Was & banker, and' paid it, at maturity, to the
agent of the defendant, who paid it in. account
with the defendant. A week afterwards the forgery was discovered,.and due notice given to the
defendant. But the Court (Mr. Justice Chambre
dissen ting) decided, that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover. Two of the Judges proceeded
upon the ground, that the banker was bound to
know the handwriting of his customers I and that
there was a wafit of caution and negligence on the
part of the plaintiff. The Chief Justice, without
dissenting from this.grotind, put itupon the nar-;
rower ground, that during the whole week the
bill must be considered as paid, and if the defenaant were now compelled to pay the money
back, he could not recover against the prior entqorsers ; so that he would sustain the whole loss
fiam the negligence of the plaintif. The very
case occurrmd in the Gloucester Bank v. The
Salem Bank, (17 Mass. .Rep. 33.) where forged
hotes of the latter-had been paid to the former,
and,. upon a subsequent- discovery, -the amount
was sought to be recovered back. The authorities were there elaborately reviewed, both :by the
counsel and the Cburt, and the conclusi.on to

O

THE UNITED STATES.

,Which the latter arrived was, that the plaintiffs
were not entitled to recover, upon the ground,

that by receiving and paying the notes,th, plaintiffs adopted them as their own, that they were
bound to examine them when offered for payment,
and if they neglected to do it within a reasonable time, they could not afterwards recover from
the defendants a loss occasioned by their own
negligence. In that case, no notice was given of
the doubtful character of the notes until fifteen
days after the receipt, and no actual averments
of forgery until about fifty days. The notes
were in a bundle when received, which had not
been examined by.the cashier until after a considerable time had elapsed. Much of the language
of the Court as to negligence, is to .be referred
to this circumstance. The Court, said, " the
true rule is, that the party receiving such notes
mast examinl them as soon as he has opportunity,
and return them
If he does not,
Immediately.
he is negligent, and negligence will defeat his
right of action. This principle will apply in all
cases where forged notes have been received, but
certainly with more strength, when the party receiving them is the one purporting to be bound
to pay. For he knows better than any'other
whether they are his notes or not; and if he pays
them, or receives them in payment, and continues
silent after he has had sufficient opportunity to
examine them, he should be considered as having
adopted them as his own."
Against the pressure of these authorities there
not a single opposing case; and we must.

351
1825.

Bank of
qGeorgia.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

352

therefore, conclude, that both in England and
the question has been supposed to be
U. S. Bank
at rest. The case of Jones v. Ryde, (5 Taunt.
v.
orBankf Rep. 488.) is clearly distinguishable, as it ranged
1825.

SAmerica,

Cases where

itself within the class of cases, where forged se-

s. curities of third persons had been r(:ceived in
of
)
Bruce v. Bruce, (5 Taunt. Rep.
thid pesonspayment.
u
'~-yadrpre
have been re- i
from
ceivd 16 pay- is very shortly and obscurely reported; but
distin.-what is there menti'oned, as well as from the nomfet,
guishable.
the foged
curities

-

tice taken of it by Lord Chief Justice Gibbs, in

Smith v. Mercer, (6 Taunt. Rep. 77.) it must
have turned on the same distinction as Jones v.
Ryde, and was not governed by Price v. Neal.
But if the present case is to be considered, as
the defendantsW counsel is most solicitous to consider it,.not as a case where the notes have been
paid, but as a case of credit, as cash, upon the
receipt of them, it will not help the argument.
In that point of view, the notes must be deemed
to have been accepted by the defendants, as genuine notes, and payment to have been promised
accordi.ngly. Credit was given.for them, as cash,
by the defendants, for nineteen dayA, and, during
all th is period, no right could exist in the plaintiffs, to recover the amount against any other
person, from whom they were received. By
such delay, according to the doctrine of Lord
Chief Justice Gibbs, in Smith v. Mercer, (6
Taunt. Rep. 76.) the prior holders would be discharged; and the case of the Gloucester Bank v.
The Salem Bank, (17 -Mass.Rep. .33.) adopts the
same principle; so that there would be a loss
pro'-luced bv the negligence of the defendants

OF THE UNITED STATES.

35S

but, waiving this narrower view, we think 1825.
ank
the case may be justly placed upon the broad
v. f
ground, that there was an acceptance of theI. Banir
Georgia.
within
notes as genuine, and that it falls directly
the authorities which govern the cases of acceptances of forged drafts. -If there be any difference between them, the principle is stronger
here than there; for there, the acceptor is presumed to kniow the drawer's signaiure. Here, a
fortiori, the maker must be presumed, and is
bound to know his own notes. He cannot be heard
to aver his ignorance ; and when he receives notes,
purporting to be his own, without objection, it is
an adoption of them as his own.
Eit'of acThe general question, as to the effect of ac-. epances,
the
.- handwritinga!
ceptances, has repeatedly come under the consi-whera
deration of the Courts of common law. In tethedrwim
"
fo

STr. been
early case of Wilkinson v. Luteridge, (1
648.) the Lord Chief Justice co.nsidered, that the
acceptance of the bill was, in an -detion against
the acceptor, a sufficient proof of the handwriting
of the drawer; but it was not conclusive. In the
subsequent case of Jenys v. Faucler, (z Str.
946.) the Lord Chief Justice would not suffer the
acceptor to give the evidence.of witnesses, that
they did not believe it the drawer's handwriting,
from the danger to negotiable notes; and he
strongly incliied to .think, that actual forgery
would be no defence, because the acceptance
had given the bill a credit to the indorsee. Subsequent to this was the,case. of Price v. Neal, al
ready commented on, in which it was thought
that the acceptor ought -o be conclusively bound
Vo.. X

45

geA

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

354

1825.

by his acceptance. The correctness of this doc-

V. S.Banktrewa
trine was recognised by Mr. Justice Buller, in
'

V.

Smith v. Chester; (1 D. 4 E. 655.) by Lord
in Barber v. Gingell, (3 Esp. Rep. 60.)
where he extended it to an implied acceptance.;
and by Mr. Justice Dampier, in Bass v. Cline,
(4 . 3 Seiw. 15.) and it wvas acted upon by
necessary implication by the Court, in Smith v.
Mercer, (6 Taunt. Rep. 76.)" In Levy v. The
Bank of the Thnited *States, (1 Binn. 27.) already .referred to, where a forged check, drawn
upon the bank, had been accepted by the latter,
and carried to the credit of the plaintiff, and
on the refusal of the bank afterwards to pay -the
amount, the suit was brought, the Court expressly held' the plaintiff entitled to recover, upon the
ground that the acceptance concluded the defendant. The case was very strong,. for the
fraud was discovered a few hours only after the
receipt of the check, and immediate notice given.
But .this was not thought in the slightest degre.
to vary the legal result. " Some of the cases,"
said the Court, " decide ,that the acceptor is
bound, because the acceptance gives a credit to
the bill,.&c. But the modern cases tertainly
notice anoiher reason for his liability, which we
think has much good sense in it, namely, that the
acceptor is presumed to know the drawer's h..and.writing, and by his acceptance to take this knowledge upon himself." 'Aftei some research, we
have not been able:to fild a single case, in which
the general doctrine, thus asserted, has been

GebrioKenyon,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

shaken, or even doubted; and the diligence of the

1825.

counsel for the defendants on the pr.esent occa-

U. S. Bank

sion, has not been more successful than our own.
Considering, then, as we do, that the doctrine is
well established, that the acceptor is bound, to
know the handwriting of the drawer, and cannot
defend himself from payment by a subsequent
discovery of the forgery, we'are of opinion, that
the present case falls directly within the same
principle. We think the defendants were bound
to know thei" own notes, and having once accept:
ed the notes in question as their own, they are
concluded by their act of adoption, and cannot
be permitted to set up the, defence of'forgery
against the plaintiffs,
Jt is not thought necessary to go into a consideration of other cases cited at tle'bar, to establish, that the acceptor may show that the
accepted bill was void in its origin, as made
in violation of the Stamp Act; &c. for all
these cases admit the genuineness of the
notes, and turn upon questions of another nature, of public policy, and a violation of the laws
of the land. Nor are the cases applicabl , in
which bills have been altered after they were
drawn- or of forged en-dorsements, for: th~se, are
not facts which an accoptor is presumed to know.
Nor is it deemed material to consider in what
cases receipts and stated accounts may be opened for surchiarge and falsification. They depend
upon other principles of general application. It
is sufficient for us to declare, that we place ojur
judgment in the present case, upon the ground.
that the defendants were bound to know their

V.?f
Bankc
Georgila-

,956

; UPRLIL COLiN
,'\>L., IN "' L

18".). own i,otes, and havingreceived theni withoir (,I%,1"4' jctiorl, they cannot now recal their assent. We
. uthink
this doctrine founded on public policy and
-Bank of
Cqorgia fonvenience ; and that actual loss is not necessary
to be proved, for-_potential loss may exist, and
the law will always presume a possible loss in
cases of this nature.
1,ghtsofthe The remaining consideration is, whether there

;dintiefr
t
un- has been a legal waiver of the rights of the plain-o,,d.

""'riffs derived under the cash deposit, or, in other
words, wbether they have consented to treat it
as a nullity. There is nothing on which to rest
such a dc2ence, unless it is to be inferred from
the letter of Mr. Early, the Cashier of the Bank
of the United States, under date of the 17th of
March, 1819, addressed to the Cashier of the
Bank of Huntsville. That letter contains information of the forgery of the notes, and then proceeds, "by the person which we shall in a few
days send to your place, as heretofore intimated,
we will forwardthese altered bills for the purpose
of getting you to exchange them for other money." Now, there is no evidence that this letter
was ever shown to the Bank of Georgia, or its
contents -ever brought to the cognisance of its
officers. It states no agreement to take back"
the notes, or to transmit them, on account of the
Bank of the United States, to Huntsville. For
aught that appears, the intention may have been
totransmit them on account of the Bank of Georgia, undei the expectation that the latter might
desire it. But what. is almost conclusive on this
point is. tbat on the same day the Bank of Geor-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

gia had made a tender of the notes to the plaintift, which had• been refused. This" is wholly
inconsistent with the notion that they had agreed
to treat the previous credit
to take them back, or~Georgia.
as a nullity.

Assuming, therefore, that the Ca-

shier had a general or special authority for the purpose of extinguishing the rights of the plaintiffs,
growing out of the prior transactions, (which is
not established in proof,) it is sufficient to say,
that it is not shown that he exercised such an authorityr And the case of Levy v. The Bank of
the United States affords a very strong argument,
that a waiver, without some new consideration,
upon a sudden disclosure, and under a mistake of
legal rights, ought not to be conclusive to the
prejudice of the party, where, upon farther reflection, he refuses to acquiesce in it. The subsequent letter of the 25th of March, demonstrates,
that th" intention of waiving the rights of the
bank, if ever entertained,had been at that time
enti nly abandoned.
The letter from the Huntsville Bank, of the
4th of May, cannot vary the legal resuli. What
might be the rights of the plaintiffs against that
bank, in case of an unsuccessful issue of the present cause, it is unnecessary to detemnine. The
contract, whatever it may be, isres inter alios
acta, from which the defendants cannot, and
ought not to deriv any advaitage.
It only r.emains to add, that if the plaintiffs
are entitled to recover the principal, they .arieentitled to interest from the time of institufing the
suit

351
1825.
-BankU. S,
*v.
Bank of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

358
1825.

Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the Court,
Sthat the Circuit Court erred in refusing the first

"Kepinnger

v.

DeYoung.

and third instructions prayed for by the plaintiffs;
and for these errors the judgment must be reversed, with directions to award a venire facias
de novo. On, the second instruction asked by the
plaintiffs, it is unnecessary to express any opinion.
Judgment reversed accordingly.

[PATENT.)

KEPLINGER V. DE YOUNG.
A., having obtained a patent for a new and useful improvement, to
wit, a machine for making watch chains, 'rought an action, under
the $d section of.ihe Patent Act of 1800, c. 179.[xxvi.] for a violation of his patent right against B. ; and' on the trial, an agr.eement
wis proved, made by the defendant with C., to purchase of him
all the watch chains, not exceeding five gross a week, which he might
be able to manufacture within six months, and an agreement on the
part of C. to devote his whole time and -attention to the manufacture of the watch chains, and not to sell or dispose of-any of them,
so as to interfere wih the *exclusive privilege secmed to the defendant of-purchasing the whole quahtity which it might be prac.
ticable for C. to make: And it was proved that the machine used
by C. with the knowledge and consent of the defendant in . e
manufacture, was the same with that invented by. the plaintit, and
that all the watch chains thus made by C. were delivered to the
defendant according to the contract. Held, that if the contract
was real and not colourable, and if the defendant had no othqr
connexion with C. than that which grew out of the contract, it.did
not amount to a breach of the plaintiffs patent right.

