COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK v. WEINHARD. 243
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

deed, Shappirio collected rents for some months upon the
property, corresponded with Goldberg as to future terms of
rental, declined to reduce the rent, made some repairs upon
the property and performed other acts of ownership. This
conduct is wholly inconsistent with an election to undo the
transaction and stand upon his right to rescind the contract.
We find no error in the judgment of the Court of Appeals
affirming the decree of the Supreme Court, and it is
Affirmed.

COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK v. WEINHARD.
SAME v. WILLIAMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
Nos. 109, 110. Argued December 17, 1903.-Decided January 18, 1904.

Section 5205, Rev. Stat., is intended to, and does, confer upon a national
banking association the privilege of declining to make the assessment to
make good a deficiency in the capital after notice by the Comptroller of
the Currency so to do and to elect instead to wind up the bank under
§ 5220. The shareholders and not the directors have the right to decide
which course shall be pursued and an assessment made upon the shares
by the directors without action by stockholders is void.

actions were brought in the Circuit Court of the State
of Oregon for Multnomah County upon separate demands to
recover the value of stock severally held by Weinhard and
Williams in the Commercial National Bank of Portland, Oregon;
Williams owning sixty shares of the par value of $6000, and
Weinhard one hundred shares of the par value of $10,000. By
stipulation the cases were heard together in the Circuit Court;
a jury being waived and a trial had to the court. The cases
were considered together as one appeal in the Supreme Court
of Oregon, which affirmed the judgment of the lower court,
41 Oregon, 359, assessing the value of the stock and giving
THESE

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

judgment in favor of the plaintiffs, now defendants in error.
The same facts and questions are involved in the cases and they
will be considered together. The one question arises from a
motion on the part of the bank for nonsuit, on the ground that
the plaintiffs below had introduced no testimony, as a part of
the case in chief, tending to show the value of the stock for
which a recovery was sought. As appears in the record much
testimony was taken, and the Oregon Supreme Court regarding the stock as of some value, at least, it was held that if there
was any error in overruling the motion for nonsuit, it was cured
by the subsequent action in submitting testimony as to the
value of the stock. In any event this feature of the case does
not present a Federal question, and upon writ of error from
the judgment of a state court we are to consider in the first
instance only the Federal questions involved. If those were
correctly decided the judgment must be affirmed. Murdock
v. City of Memphis, 20 Wall. 590. The plaintiffs below recovered judgment for the value of the stock upon the theory
that there had been a conversion thereof, because the board
of directors and the stockholders directed the assessment resulting in the sale of the stock of the plaintiffs below in satisfaction thereof.
The Commercial National Bank of Portland was duly organized under the National Banking Act, and carried on business
in the city of Portland, Oregon. It appeared that the capital
of the bank had become impaired, and thereupon such proceedings were had that on December 5, 1896, the Comptroller
issued the following notice to the bank:
"Treasury Department,
of the Currency,
Comptroller
"Office of
"Washington, D. C., Dec. 5, 1896.
"Whereas, it appears to the satisfaction of the Comptroller
of the Currency that the capital stock of the Commercial National Bank, Portland, Oregon, has become impaired to an
extent which makes necessary an assessment of two hundred

COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK v. WEINHARD. 245
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) upon the shareholders
of said association to make good such deficiency:
"Now, therefore, notice is hereby given to said association,
under the provisions of section 5205 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, to pay the said deficiencyin its capital stock
by assessment upon its shareholders, pro rata, for the amount
of the capital stock held by each, and if such deficiency shall
not be paid, and said bank shall refuse to go. into liquidation,
as provided by law, for three months after this notice shall
have been received by it, a receiver will be appointed to close
up the business of the association, according to the provisions
of section 5234 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my name
and caused my seal of office to be affixed to these presents, at
the Treasury Department, in the city of Washington, and
District of Columbia, this 5th day of December, A. D. 1896.
"JAMES

H.

EcKLES,

"Comptroller of the Currency.
"To the Commercial National Bank, Portland, Oregon."
After receipt of this notice, upon December 12, 1896, the
board of directors passed this resolution:
"Resolved, That in accordance with the notice served upon
this association by the Comptroller of the Currency, under date
of December 5, 1896, and received by this bank on the 11th day
of December, 1896, an assessment is hereby levied upon the
shareholders of this bank of fifty per cent or $50 per share,
payable at this bank on or before March 11, 1897.
"And, resolved, That the cashier of this bank be, and he
hereby is, authorized and instructed to serve upon each shareholder of the bank a legal notice of the above assessment by
sending such notice to each shareholder's address by registered
mail."
Upon December 17, 1896, notice of this assessment was
served upon each of the stockholders of the bank. The defendants in error having failed to pay this assessment, on

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

March 18, 1897, the board of directors passed a resolution
directing the sale of the delinquents' stock to be made at
public auction on May 5, 1897. In pursuance of this order,
and on the day named, the stock was sold for the amount of
the assessment. The Federal question is whether the board
of directors in thus assessing and selling the stock of the defendants in error exceeded their powers under the National
Banking Act; it being claimed that a valid assessment could
only be made by the action of the stockholders, and that the
sale by the directors upon this assessment was unlawful and
amounted to a conversion of the stock.
Mr. E. S. Pillsbury for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Thomas O'Day, with whom Mr. George H. Williams and
Mr. George W. Durham were on the brief, for defendants in
error.
Mn. JUsTIcE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
This case requires the construction of section 5205 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States as amended. 3 Comp.
Stat. 3495. The section is as follows:
"Every association which shall have failed to pay up its
capital stock, as required by law, and every association whose
capital stock shall have become impaired by losses or otherwise, shall, within three months after receiving notice thereof
from the Comptroller of the Currency, pay the deficiency in
the capital stock, by assessment upon the shareholders pro
rata for the amount of capital stock held by each; and the
Treasurer of the United States shall withhold the interest upon
all bonds held by him in trust for any such association, upon
notification from the Comptroller of the Currency, until otherwise notified by him. If any such association shall fail to pay
up its capital stock, and shall refuse to go into liquidation, as

COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK v. WEINHARD. 247
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

provided by law, for three months after receiving notice from
the Comptroller, a receiver may be appointed to close up the
business of the association, according to the provisions of
section fifty-two hundred and thirty-four. And provided,
That if any shareholder or shareholders of such bank shall
neglect or refuse, after three months' notice, to pay the assessment, as provided in this section, it shall be the duty of the
board of directors to cause a sufficient amount of the capital
stock of such shareholder or shareholders to be sold at public
auction (after thirty days' notice shall be given by posting
such notice of sale in the office of the bank, and by publishing
such notice in a newspaper of the city or town in which the
bank is located, or in a newspaper published nearest thereto,)
to make good the deficiency, and the balance, if any, shall be
returned to such delinquent shareholder or shareholders."
The assessment in this case was made by the board of directors without any action of the stockholders of the association, and the defendants in error having failed to pay the same
upon notice, their stock was sold as directed in the statute.
It is claimed that an assessment by the directors without action
of the stockholders was without authority of law and amounted
to a conversion of the stock. This view was sustained in the
Supreme Court of Oregon. The assessment ordered by the
Comptroller was for the purpose of restoring the capital of the
bank, and thus enabling it to continue its business. Ample
power is conferred upon the Comptroller for this purpose.
His action is in aid of other sections of the law preventing a
withdrawal of the capital, or the making of dividends when
losses have been sustained equal to the undivided profits.
Sections 5202-5204, Rev. Stat. When the notice is received
from the Comptroller by the bank under section 5205, the
association has no authority to review or gainsay the necessity
thereof. That question is concluded by the action of the
Comptroller. The money to be raised for the continuance of
the business may or may not be used in the liquidation of
debts. The assessment is entirely different from that pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

vided for in section 5151, calling upon the individual responsibility of shareholders for the payment of debts. Under the
last named section the stockholder is required to pay such
assessments as may be made, to meet the outstanding obligations of the bank, within the limit of an amount equal to the
par value of the stock in addition to the amount invested
therein. He has no election of payment, but is required to
meet this liability, created by law for the benefit of creditors.
Under section 5205 the amount paid is subject to the control
of the board of directors in the continued operations of the
bank. If the stockholders are to have a voice in making or
declining to make the assessment, they may well hesitate to
entrust more capital to the control of a board under whose
management it has already been impaired. Certain powers
are conferred by law upon the directors.
Section 5136 provides that the association shall have power"Sixth. To prescribe, by its board of directors, by-laws not
inconsistent with law, regulating the manner in which its stock
shall be transferred, its directors elected or appointed, its
officers appointed, its property transferred, its general business
conducted, and the privileges granted to it by law exercised
and enjoyed.
"Seventh. To exercise by its board of directors, or duly authorized officers or agents, subject to law, all such incidental
powers as shall be necessary to carry on the business of banking; by discounting and negotiating promissory notes, drafts,
bills of exchange, and other evidences of debt; by receiving
deposits; by buying and selling exchange, coin, and bullion;
by loaning money on personal security; and by obtaining,
issuing, and circulating notes according to the provisions of
this Title."
And, again, by section 5145, it is declared that the "affairs"
of the corporation "shall be managed by not less than five
directors."
Thus the directors are given authority to transact the usual
and ordinary business of national banks. Obviously, the

COMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK v. WEINHARD. 249
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

power conferred may be exercised in all usual transactions
through the executive officers of the bank without consultation with the stockholders. In the present case the question
to be dealt with is vital to the continuance of the life of the
association, as only by complying with the requirement of the
Comptroller in assessing a sum sufficient to make up the impaired capital of the bank can its business be continued. The
shareholders by their contracts of subscription have agreed to
pay in the amount of capital stock subscribed and to discharge
the additional liability imposed by the statute. They have
not contracted to meet assessments at the will of the directors
to perpetuate the business of a possibly losing concern. It
would be going far beyond the usual powers conferred upon
directors to permit them to thus control the corporation.
Corporate powers conferred upon a board of directors usually
refer to the ordinary business transactions of the corporation.
Railway Company v. Allerton, 18 Wall. 233. The assessment
is required by the Comptroller, not by the directors. The
association is to receive notice thereof, and action must be
taken by the association to meet the requirements of the
Comptroller under the statute. It is provided that if the
association fail to pay up its capital stock, and refuse to go
into liquidation, as provided by jaw, for three months after
receiving notice from the Comptroller, a receiver may be appointed to close up the business of the association according
to the provisions of section 5234. This important provision
is entitled to much weight in determining the proper construction of the statute. The assessment .may be avoided,
and the amount required is not payable if the association
decides to go into liquidation. Provision for voluntary liquidation is made in section 5220 wherein authority is given to
liquidate upon a vote of shareholders owning two-thirds of the
stock. Such liquidation does not prevent the assessment of
stockholders under section 5151 for the benefit of creditors
and the enforcement of the liability of the shareholders in an
action by a receiver or directly by the creditors. Comp. Stat.

OCTOBER TERM,

19,03.

Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

sec. 5234; sec. 2, Act of June 30, 1876, as amended, 3 Comp.
Stat. 3509. The section referred to, 5234, directs the appointment of a receiver to take possession of the books, records and
assets of the association, to collect the debts and claims belonging to it, and, among other things, if necessary to pay the
debts of the association, to enforce the individual liability of
the shareholders.
We are of opinion that section 5205 is intended to and does
confer upon the association the privilege of declining to make
the assessment to make good the deficiency to the capital, and
to elect instead to wind up the business of the bank under
section 5220, which provides for voluntary liquidation by a
vote of two-thirds of the shareholders. The question is, who
shall exercise this privilege and determine the future of the
association-is it the directors or the shareholders who have
this right of decision? The origin and continuation of the
association would seem to be matters in which the owners and
not the managers of the bank are primarily interested. If
these are privileges of the shareholders and only exercisable
by them, this case presents a total lack of the exertion of the
power by those upon whom it is legally conferred, as no action
of the shareholders was had in the present case in making the
assessment. Action upon the Comptroller's order involves
extraordinary action of the association, and determines its
future operations or liquidation, and is not found within the
powers conferred upon the directors for the management of
the business of the bank. If this were not so, then the decision of a question of such vital importance is left to the directors, who may or may not be large holders of stock. As it
is a matter foreign to the powers of such boards and not conferred by statute or required for the transaction of the business
of the bank, we think it was intended to be vested in the shareholders. Whether a given power is to be exercised by the
directors or the shareholders depends upon its nature and the
terms of the enabling act. In certain instances the law specifically requires the action of the association to be taken by its

COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK v. WEINHARD. 251
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

incorporators or shareholders. Sections 5133, 5134, 5136, 5143,
Rev. Stat. These sections regulate matters not pertaining to
the ordinary business of the bank entrusted to the directors.
They deal with the exercise of those powers which concern the
organization of the corporation, the amount of its capital stock
and kindred matters.
In section 5205 the requirement of the Comptroller is that
the association make the assessment. It is the "association"
which is required to pay up the stock or go into liquidation.
The payment of the assessments must come from the shareholders, and we are of the opinion that the statute contemplates action upon the alternatives presented in the statute
by the association composed of its shareholders. It is true,
as suggested by the learned counsel for the plaintiff in error,
that it requires a two-thirds vote of the stockholders to put
the bank into liquidation under section 5220; but if the assessment is not carried, and the shareholders have not a two-thirds
vote favoring liquidation, the bank is put in liquidation, and
the shareholders' liability is the statutory one for the benefit
of creditors, and not a venture of more capital in the enterprise
with a possible stockholders' liability upon the liquidation of
the bank if it shall ultimately fail. Again, if the determination of this matter is entirely left to the directors, they may,
by declining to make the assessment, force a liquidation of the
bank, although the shareholders-the real owners of the property-be willing to make good the impaired capital and continue the business. On the other hand, if the directors may
assess to make good impaired capital, the shareholder must
pay the assessment or submit to the sale of his stock. Such
extraordinary powers are far beyond those required in the
management of the bank's affairs or conferred in the sections
of the law defining those conferred upon the directors. In
Delano v. Butler, 118 U. S.634, 653, while the question was not
directly involved, in speaking of assessments under the act,
Mr. Justice Matthews, delivering the opinion of the court,
said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

"The assessment imposed upon the stockholders by their
own vote, for the purpose of restoring their lost-capital, as a
consideration for the privilege of continuing business, and to
avoid liquidation under § 5205 of the Revised Statutes, is not
the assessment contemplated by § 5151, by which the shareholders of every national banking association may be compelled to discharge their individual responsibility for the
contracts, debts and engagements of the association. The assessment as made under §5205 is voluntary, made by the stockholders themselves, paid into the general funds of the bank as
a further investment in the capital stock, and disposed of by
its officers in the ordinary course of its business. It may or
may not be applied by them to the payment of creditors, and
in the ordinary course of business, certainly would not be applied, as in cases of liquidation, to the payment of creditors
ratably; whereas, under § 5151, the individual liability does
not arise, except in case of liquidation and for the purpose of
winding up the affairs of the bank. The assessment under
that section is made by authority of the Comptroller of the
Currency, is not voluntary, and can be applied only to the
satisfaction of the creditors equally and ratably."
We concur in this reasoning. The assessment under section 5202 provides for a sum to continue the operations of the
bank and if unpaid subjects the stock of the shareholders to
sale to make good the deficiency in its collection. Shareholders are given the right to go into liquidation, subjecting
themselves, it is true, to the liability of the assessment for the
benefit of creditors under section 5151 to an amount equal to
the par value of their stock, if needed to make good the indebtedness of the bank, but risking no further investment of
new captial in the continued business of the bank. The choice
of methods is with the shareholders, and to them is addressed
the decision of the question and the making of the assessment
if that course is determined upon. Hulitt v. Bell, 85 Fed. Rep.
98. In the present case the assessment was made by the
directors without action by the shareholders, and, not being

CHESEBROUGH v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

within the statute, was void.

It follows that the Supreme

Court of Oregon properly affirmed the judgment of the lower
court in which the value of the stock sold was recovered.
Judgment affirmed.

CITESEBROUGH v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 152. Argued December 3, 4,1903.-Decided January 25,1904.

Texas paid voluntarily cannot be recovered back, and payments with
knowledge and without compulsion are voluntary.
The purchase of stamps from a collector of internal revenue without intimating the purpose they are for, and without any protest made, or notice
given, at the time, that the purchaser claims that the purchase is under
duress, and the law requiring their use unconstitutional, is a voluntary
payment, and a subsequent application to the commissioner to refund
the amount is not equivalent to protest made, or notice given, at the
time of the purchase.
Refusal by a vendee to accept a deed of conveyance without the stamps required by the war revenue act of 1898 is not such duress as relieves the
vendor from making protest or giving notice at the time of the purchase
to the collector from whom the stamps are purchased.

ROBERT A. CHESEBROUGH filed his petition in the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, May 23, 1902, to recover the sum of six hundred dollars
from the United States alleged to have been paid to the collector of internal revenue for the second district of New York
for the purchase of certain internal revenue stamps to be affixed
to a deed for the conveyance of real estate. Petitioner alleged
that on May 28, 1900, he entered into an agreement with the
Chesebrough Building Company to convey to that corporation
certain real estate which he then owned and to execute and
deliver a deed therefor on the fifth day of June, 1900. That on
that day he made, executed and delivered to the corporation
a deed of conveyance of the real estate and received the con-

