WABASH R. R. CO. v. PEARCE.
192 U. S.

Syllabus.

return of all the property then in his possession and the payment of over seventeen thousand dollars. But it is said that
Ward himself repudiated the agreement because he brought
suit on the first of the notes. There may have been a technical
mistake in the form of the action, but there was no repudiation
of the agreement, as is shown by the fact that the complaint
only asked judgment for $1500, and that Ward filed with the
complaint an affidavit for an attachment, in which he averred
that the payment of the sum due was "not secured by any
mortgage or lien upon real or personal property or any pledge
of personal property." But equity will not destroy rights on
account of a mere technical mistake of counsel. It may be
conceded that Ward should have brought an action in form for
the value of the cattle not delivered, but it is manifest that that
value was all that he was seeking to recover.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Arizona is reversed and
the case remanded to that court with instructions to reverse
the judgment of the District Court and remand the case to
that court for further proceedings in conformity to the views
herein expressed.

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. PEARCE.
ERROR TO THE ST. LOUIS COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
MISSOURI.
No. 112. Submitted December 18, 1903.-Decided January 11, 1904.

Where not only the scope and applicability of the doctrine of subrogation
is involved, but also the extent to which a common carrier is protected
by the laws of the United States in paying customs duties exacted thereunder on goods in transit over its lines, a Federal question is presented,
which, when properly set up in the state courts, is subject to review by
this court.
A common carrier has, under the laws of the United States, a lien entitling
it to possession until paid, on goods in transit over its lines for legal ir-

OCrOBER TERMI, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

port duties paid thereon by it either directly to the Government or to a
connecting carrier which has already paid the same.
the
Where a contract of shipment, from a point without to a point within
carrier
each
that
provides
carriers,
several
of
lines
the
United States over
lines the last
shall be liable only for loss or damage accruing on its own
by
examination
an
from
resulting
damages
for
responsible
carrier is not
the point
customs officers at a point not on its own line, and different from
delivered in
to which the contract provided that the goods should be
bond.

ON June 25, 1895, Charles E. Pearce, the testator of the defendants in error, commenced his action in replevin in the
Circuit Court of the city of St. Louis, Missouri, to recover from
a
the railroad company four boxes of curios. After answer
a
in
resulting
jury,
a
without
trial was had before the court
affirmed
was
judgment for the plaintiff, which, on May 7, 1901,
by the St. Louis Court of Appeals. 89 Mo. App. 437. An
application to transfer the case to the Supreme Court of the
State on the ground that it involved the validity of a statute
of or authority exercised under the United States was denied,
State ex rel. v. Bland, 168 Missouri, 1, and thereupon it was
brought here on writ of error.
The facts are undisputed, and are as follows: Pearce was the
owner of the curios, and in Yokohama, Japan, shipped them to
St. Louis. The bill of lading was issued by the Canadian
Pacific Railway Company, and recited that the goods were
shipped upon the company's steamer, Empress of India, to
be carried to Vancouver, British Columbia, and thence over
the Canadian Pacific and connecting lines to St. Louis, Missouri.
The boxes were carried to Vancouver and thence by the Canadian Pacific Railway Company over its own and a connecting
line controlled by it to St. Paul, Minnesota. Upon arrival at
St. Paul the custom officers took possession of the boxes, opened
and examined the contents, and duly assessed the duties
thereon at $264.31, which sum was paid by the railway company and had to be paid in order to regain possession and
forward the goods. The goods were thereafter delivered to
the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company, by

WABASH R. R. CO. v. PEARCE.
192 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

it to the defendant at Given, Iowa, and by the latter carried
to St. Louis. The inspection at St. Paul was in strict accordance with the laws of the United States and the duties exacted
were properly chargeable upon the goods. When the defendant received the goods from the Chicago, Milwaukee and St.
Paul Railway Company it became responsible under its traffic
agreements for the payment of the charges then on the goods,
including the custom duties, and has since paid those charges.
On receipt of the goods in St. Louis they were tendered to the
plaintiff upon payment of the charges. The goods were shipped
in bond to St. Louis and this was so marked on the boxes. If
they had been transported to St. Louis in bond, as they should
have been, they would there have been opened and examined
and retained in the custody and possession of the custom officers, not only during examination and inspection, but also
until the duties were paid.
Mr. Wells H. Blodgett and Mr. George S. Grover for plaintiff
in error:
The answer tendered a defence based upon an authority
exercised under a statute of the United States. This confers
jurisdiction upon this court to hear and determine this controversy. Section 709, Revised Statutes of the United States;
U. S. Compiled Statutes, 1901, vol. 1, p. 575.
The government of the United States had, until the payment was made to it, a prior and paramount lien on the goods
for the duty which Major Pearce has refused to pay. Overton
on Liens, § 656, p. 709, and cases cited; Hodges v. Harris, 6
Pick. (Mass.) 360; §§ 3095 et seq., Rev. Stat. U. S. 1878,
pp. 594 et seq.; §§ 3058 et seq. Compiled Stat. U.S. 1901, vol. 2,
pp. 2004 et seq.
The plaintiff in error has, also, a valid lien on the goods in
question for the charges advanced by it to its connecting line,
in the usual course of business. Ray on Freight Carriers, § 102,
p. 407, and cases cited; Hutchinson on Carriers (2d ed.), § 478a,
p. 541, and cases cited; Schouler on Bailments, p. 544, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

192 U. S.

cases cited; Wells v. Thomas, 27 Missouri, 17; Moore v. Henry,
18 Mo. App. 41; Armstrong v. Railway, 62 Mo. App. 642; Gerber
v. Railway, 63 Mo. App. 145.
The case here relied on by the defendants in error, Mellier
v. St. L. & N. 0. Line, 14 Mo. App. 281, is not in point, because
there was no agreement here to transport the goods in question in bond; nor were they, as in the Mellier case, supra,
an
lost in transit by reason of an attempted misdelivery to
them.
receive
to
refused
who
irresponsible connecting carrier,
Under the contract of shipment in evidence, the plaintiff
in error is not responsible for the injury and loss here claimed,
as it is conceded that such injury and loss occurred beyond
its own line. Goldsmith v. R. R., 12 Mo. App. 479; Orr v. R. R.,
21 Mo. App. 333; Myrick v. R. R., 107 U. S. 102; Coates v. Express Co., 45 Missouri, 238; Snider v. Express Co., 63 Missouri,
376; Dimmitt v. R. R., 103 Missouri, 433; Nines v. R. R., 107
Missouri, 475; McCann v. Eddy, 133 Missouri, 59.
The defendants in error cannot recover in this action, because the refusal of the plaintiff in error to deliver the goods
until the charges were paid was a proper, and not a wrongful,
act, and plaintiff in error has a perfect defence to this action
under § 3100, U. S. Rev. Stat., with the subsequent amendments thereto. See authorities cited, supra.
Mr. Edward C. Kehr for defendants in error:
There is no Federal question in the case and the writ of error
should be dismissed. The question was adjudicated between
the parties by the Supreme Court of Missouri. State v. Bland,
168 Missouri, 1.
The Supreme Court of the United States is bound by the
decision of the state court in regard to the meaning of the
constitution and laws of its own State, and its decision upon
such a state of facts raises no Federal question. Turner v.
Wilkes County, 173 U. S. 461,463; CentralLand Co. v. Laidley,
159 U. S. 103.
The supposed subrogation by virtue of which the Wabash

WABASH R. R. CO. v. PEARCE.
192 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Railroad Company claims to withhold the plaintiff's property,
does not arise under any statute of or authority exercised
under the United States. U. S. Rev. Stat. § 709.
To give the Supreme Court of the United States jurisdiction
over the judgment of a state court, it must appear that the
decision of a Federal question presented to that court was
necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it was
actually decided, or that without deciding it, the judgment
rendered could not have been given. Brown v. Atwell's Admr.,
92 U. S. 327; Citizens' Bank v. Board of Liquidation, 98 U. S.
140; DeSaussure v. Gaillard, 127 U. S. 234; Blount v. Walker,
134 U. S. 607, 614; Jersey City & B. R. R. v. Morgan, 160 U. S.
288; Sawyer v. Piper, 189 U. S. 154.
Where the Supreme Court of a State decides a Federal question in rendering a judgment and also decides against the
plaintiff in error on an independent ground not involving a
Federal question and broad enough to maintain the judgment,
the writ of error will be dismissed. Hale v. Akers, 132 U. S.
554, 564; Murdock v. Memphis, 87 U. S. 590, 634; McManus
v. Sullivan, 91 U. S. 578; Capital Bank v. Cadiz Bank, 172
U. S. 425, 430.
St. Louis being a port of entry and delivery, the plaintiff
was entitled under the laws of the United States to have his
goods shipped and brought to St. Louis in bond, and at St.
Louis to make his entry for the purposes of customs payment.
The goods having been delivered to and received by the Canadian Pacific Railway, for transportation in bond to St. Louis,
it became the duty of the carrier to transport the goods in bond
to St. Louis, and, if so transported, they were not subject to
examination and customs assessment at any point other than
St. Louis. U. S. Rev. Stat. §§ 2994, 3102.
The carrier had no right to change the contract destination
of the goods, nor to change their consignment' from Schade
& Co., St. Louis, to F. Jones, St. Paul, nor to do otherwise than
to carry them in bond to St. Louis. Mellier v. St. Louis & N.
0. T. Co., 14 Mo. App. 281, 292.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

The freight was prepaid to St. Louis. The carrier therefore
has no freight lien on the goods. The money advanced in
payment of the duties is no part of the cost of transportation
and the carrier acquired no lien on the goods by paying them.
Steamboat Va. v. Kraft, 25 Missouri, 76, 80; Hutchinson on
Carriers (2d ed.), § 478.
The railroad company was not subrogated to the government's lien for the import duties. Etna Ins. Co. v. Middleport, 124 U. S. 534, 547; Hinchman v. Morris, 29 W. Va. 673;
Griffing v. Pintard, 25 Mississippi, 173; Wallace's Estate, 59
Pa. St. 401; Mercantile Trust Co. v. Hart, 76 Fed. Rep. 673;
M1ilwaukee & ill. R. Co. v. Soutter, 80 U. S. 517; German Bank
v. United States, 148 U. S. 573, 580; Wilkinson v. Babbitt, 4
Dill. 207; Sheldon on Subrogation, § 241, p. 361.
Taxes are not debts. A tax is an impost levied by authority of government upon its citizens for the support of the
State. Carondeletv. Picot, 38 Missouri, 125; Blevins v. Smith,
104 Missouri, 595; State ex rel. v. Snyder, 139 Missouri, 553.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
Two questions are presented-one of jurisdiction and the
other on the merits.
With regard to the first, the decision of the Supreme Court
of the State is not controlling. It is not the province of a
state court to determine our jurisdiction; and further, theMissouri statute, providing for a review of certain cases by
the Supreme Court, is not identical with but more limited
than section 709, Rev. Stat., which prescribes our jurisdiction
over final judgments of state courts.
It is contended that the only question determined by the
state court was the applicability of the equitable doctrine of
subrogation, that no statute of Congress was suggested giving
a right of subrogation in cases like this, and therefore that the
decision of the state court rested upon a matter of general law.
But the answer of the defendant, after stating the circum-

WABASH R. R. CO. v. PEARCE.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

stances of the payment by the several carriers, alleged that it
was "entitled to the first lien on said goods under the laws of
the United States for the amount of said duties." Although
no single statute was mentioned, it claimed a lien on the goods
under and by virtue of the laws of the United States, and thus
directly called for a determination of a Federal right. Crowell
v. Randell, 10 Pet. 368; Bridge Proprietorsv. Hoboken Co., 1
Wall. 116, 142; Furman v. Nichol, 8 Wall. 44, 56; Dooley v.
Smith, 13 Wall. 604. The question in fact presented and decided was not simply the scope and applicability of the doctrine of subrogation, but rather to what extent, considering
the obligations cast by the revenue laws and the duties of
common carriers as between themselves and the shipper, the
carrier was protected by the laws of the United States in paying custom duties exacted under them. When we stop to
consider the great volume of imports handled almost exclusively by common carriers, the owners or consignees being
often in the interior of the country, this is obviously a question
of supreme importance. And this question is solved not alone
upon general principles of law, but involves an enquiry as to
the effect of exactions made under authority of the statutes
of the United States. We are, by section 709, Rev. Stat.,
given jurisdiction over the final judgments of state courts
"where any title, right, privilege, or immunity is claimed under
the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of, or commission
held or authority exercised under, the United States, and the
decision is against the title, right, privilege, or immunity
specially set up or claimed." The contention of the railroad
company is that payment of duties exacted under the statutes of the United States does not operate simply to release
the goods, but also gives in cases like the present, to the carrier, the right and privilege of maintaining possession until it
is reimbursed these duties. Is the statute to be considered
simply as a demand for money, or does it also carry a grant
to one situated as this carrier, of a right and privilege of possession? This right and privilege was specially set up and

OCTOBER TERMT, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

claimed by the railroad company. Whether it existed was
the substantial question presented and decided. And whether
rightly or wrongly decided the presentation of the question,
the claim of the right and privilege was, when denied by the
state court, sufficient to give this court jurisdiction.
We pass, therefore, to consider the merits. Do the laws of
the United States exacting the payment of duties at ports of
entry justify the carrier in paying those duties, and give to it
a lien therefor as against the owner? It must be remembered
that the Government has not prescribed payment simply at
the place of delivery, but has named the ports of entry at
which, and at which only, payment can be made. Must the
carrier insist that the owner shall be present at the place of
entry to himself make payment, or, after notifying the owner,
leave the goods in the hands of the Government officials to be
held for the charges thereon, or, may the carrier pay the charges
and maintain possession until reimbursed by the owner? It
is unnecessary to consider what rights would exist if it were
alleged that the goods imported were free from duty, or that
there had been overcharges or wrongful conduct on the part
of the Government officials. Here the regularity of the proceedings on the part of the Government officials and the correct amount of the duties collected are unquestioned.
We are of opinion that the custom laws of the United States
are potent to fully protect the carrier in the payment of the
legal duties charged upon goods in its possession. In order
to fully understand the force and scope of any statute or body
of statutes we must have regard to the conditions and circumstances for which the legislation was intended and under which
it is to become operative. We are not narrowly to read the
letter and ignore the state of affairs to which that legislation
was intended and is applicable. As we have said, the great
body of imports is subject to duties, and payment thereof is
by statute specifically required to be made at certain places.
These imports are brought in by carriers and distributed by
them to the several places of destination.

WABASH R. R. CO. v. PEARCE.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is unnecessary to cite authorities to the proposition that

it is the common law duty of the carrier to receive, carry and
deliver goods; that by virtue of this obligation it is entitled to
retain possession until its charges are paid. Nor is this lien
confined to the charges for its own transportation. The law
is thus stated in Overton on Liens, sec. 135, p. 166:
"The lien attaches not alone for the particular item of charge
for carriage due upon the goods, but for such other legal
charges as the carrier, in the course of his duty, may have been
compelled to expend upon their care, custody and preservation. As when a railway, in the transportation of live stock,
as cattle, horses and swine, has been at expense of labor and
money in feeding and preserving them, such expense is a legitimate charge in addition to their transportation. For the
carrier is under special obligation to guard and protect such
property, hence the propriety of a lien for such extraordinary
expense and care. If a carrier, in the ordinary course of the
business, pay back charges upon goods due to another carrier
in the course of transportation, as they come to him, he may
recover for such back charges and freight so paid; and the
owner may seek his remedy for any damages done them against
the party in whose hands it was done, or under his original
contract of shipment."
See also Hutchinson on Carriers, sec. 478a; Ray on Freight
Carriers, sec. 102. In Schouler on Bailments, p. 544, it is said:
"A common carrier, then, may usually retain particular
goods, by virtue of his lien right, until the freight and charges
due thereon for his whole transportation are paid or tendered
him, and he cannot be compelled to. give them up sooner.
This lien, moreover, extends to all the proper freight and
storage charges upon the goods throughout the whole of a
continuous transit over successive lines; since the last carrier
or final warehouseman may advance what was lawfully due
his predecessors, and hold the property as security for his
reimbursement."
In making payment to a connecting carrier of its freight

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

charges the carrier is not a mere volunteer, such as is referred
to in Etna Life Insurance Company v. Middleport, 124 U. S.

534.
All this was matter of common knowledge, and upon this
the legislation in respect to duties was enacted. Is it to be
supposed that Congress intended that protection to the carrier
should depend upon the perhaps varying opinions of the courts
of the different States as to whether in making payment the
carrier was a mere volunteer, or whether it can be subrogated
to the rights and remedies of the nation? It must be remembered that the importation of goods is a subject of national
and not of state regulation, that such power of regulation
continues until the final delivery of the imported articles, so
that over the entire transportation of these goods to St. Louis,
the place of delivery, the power of Congress was supreme and
exclusive. It must also be remembered that bonded goods
are, by section 2993, Rev. Stat., deliverable only to carriers
designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, which are made
responsible to the United States, and are required to give bond
to the United States in such form and amount and with such
conditions and security as the Secretary of the Treasury shall
require. Is it not reasonable to hold that Congress-having
in mind the duty of carriers in reference to transportation and
delivery, their customary lien for charges, and their right to
retain possession during transit-in directing the custom house
officers to take goods out of a carrier's possession, inspect and
hold until the duties are paid, intended that upon payment the
Government lien should pass to the carrier with a view of
enabling it to discharge its duty of carriage and delivery to the
consignee? It was not necessary to specifically state that the
Government's lien was transferred, for when Congress provided
by statute for interrupting the carrier's common law right of
possession, it is implied that the action necessarily taken by
the carrier to regain possession shall work no injury to the
rights which flow from possession. Such, it seems to us, is the
fair import of this legislation, enacted, as it was, in view of the

CROSSIV AN v. LURMAN.
192 U. S.

Syllabus.

well recognized rights and duties of carriers. The defendant
should not, therefore, have been deprived of the possession of
the goods without a repayment of the duties.
It is insisted, however, that the goods were shipped in bond
to St. Louis, that the Canadian Pacific for its own convenience
wrongfully changed their bonded destination to the port of St.
Paul, and that during the examination and inspection at St.
Paul some of the curios were broken, and some lost, whereas
if they had been shipped in bond to St. Louis they might have
been opened and examined in the presence of the plaintiff and
injury and loss prevented. Conceding this, and that the
Canadian Pacific by its wrongful act was liable for the injuries
resulting to the plaintiff, the contract of shipment stipulated
that each of the parties employed in the carriage should be
liable only for loss or damage accruing upon its own road, and
that such carriers should not be jointly liable, nor either for
any loss or damage accruing upon the road of the other; so
that whatever claim the plaintiff may have had for such injury
and loss was only against the Canadian Pacific, and could not
operate to prevent the defendant company from receiving that
-which by its payment it was entitled to.
The judgment of the St. Louis Court of Appeals is reversed and
the case remanded to that court for further proceedings not
inconsistentwith this opinion.

CROSSMAN v. LURMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 117. Argued December 18, 1903.-Decided January 11, 1904.

Chapter 661, § 41, 1893, of the Laws of New York, prohibiting the sale of
adulterated food and drugs is not repugnant to the commerce clause of
the Federal Constitution but is a valid exercise of the police power of the
State.

