GERMAN SAVINGS SOCIETY v. DORMITZER.
192 U. S.

125

Syllabus.

hands as such, but it is a charge against him for money which
he ought to have put into his account and held as an identified
fund, but did not. The motives which induced his consent to
charge himself are immaterial. Whatever they were, the effect
of the record is the same.
Finally, the administrator objects to being charged with
interest on an item of $1419.73, which he received in 1891.
There is perhaps more doubt about this than concerning the
more important matters, but we shall not disturb the decree.
The assets had been ordered to be paid into court and then
had been transferred, as above stated, to the solicitors of the
parties as custodians. The administrator did not pay this
sum over, but kept it in his own hands.
Decree affirmed.

GERMAN SAVINGS AND LOAN SOCIETY v. DORMITZER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 104. Argued December 16,17, 1903.-Decided January 4, 1904.
A writ of error will not be dismissed on the ground that the Federal question was not set up in the court below, and that the decision rested on
two grounds, one of which was estoppel and independent of the Federal
question, when the plaintiff in error had insisted upon his constitutional
rights as soon as the occasion arose, and the opinion deals expressly with
such rights.
A decree of divorce may be impeached collaterally in the courts of another
State by proof that the court granting it had no jurisdiction, even when
the record purports to show jurisdiction and appearance of the, other
party, without violating the full faith and credit clause of the Federal
Constitution. Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S. 14.
The facts that a resident of a State after selling out his property and
business went to another State, bought land and decided to locate there
are sufficient for the courts of the latter State to find thereon that he
had changed his domicil and that the courts of the State from which he
had removed had no jurisdiction of an action subsequently brought by
him for divorce.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

Mr. William Scott Goodfellow, with whom Mr. E. C. Hughes
and M. William W. Hindman were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Robert A. Howard and Mr. Lucius G. Nash for defendant in error.
Mr. Frederick W. Dewart for Mr. William M. Murray, guardian ad litem for minor Tull.
MR. JusTicE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Washington
on the ground that full faith and credit has not been given to
a decree of divorce rendered in the State of Kansas. See
23 Washington, 132. The record is long, but all that is material
to the case in this court can be stated in a few words. The
defendants in error are the children of one F. M. Tull, and
brought a complaint for the purpose, so far as the Savings
Society, the plaintiff in error, is concerned, of establishing
their right to an undivided share in certain land in Spokane,
Washington, to which the Savings Society claims an absolute
title. At least that form of relief was held to be open under
their complaint. Their claim was made on the ground that the
land was community property of their parents and that they
inherited an undivided share upon their mother's death. The
Savings Society claimed under the foreclosure of a mortgage
executed by F. M. Tull. Before the execution of their mortgage and after Tull had applied for a loan his wife died, and
probate proceedings were instituted under which Tull purported to purchase his children's interest as a preliminary to
making the mortgage. It has been decided that these probate
proceedings were void as against a purchaser with notice and
that the Savings Society took with notice. These are local
matters with which we have no concern. But the Savings
Society contended that it had a good title, irrespective of these
proceedings. The land was purchased with the proceeds of
Kansas property which seems to have stood in the name of
F. M. Tull. Tull procured a divorce in Kansas, and if that

GERMAN SAVINGS SOCIETY v. DORMITZER.
192 U. S.

127

Opinion of the Court.

divorce was valid his wife's interest in his property was gone.
Therefore, it is said, the land in Washington followed the
character of the purchase money as his separate prolerty,
although before the payment was completed the divorced parties made up their differences and were married to each other
a second time.
The Supreme Court of Washington, trying the case de novo,
found that Tull had changed his domicil from Kansas to Washington before beginning his divorce proceedings, and therefore
that the decree was without jurisdiction and void. It further
found on evidence satisfactory to itself that, the divorce being
out of the way, the property was joint or community property,
and that his children had the right they claimed. With this
last again we are not concerned, and the only question for us
is whether the court could go behind the record of the Kansas
case.
There is a motion to dismiss. It is said that the Federal
question was not set up in the court below, and that the court
put its decision on two distinct grounds, one of which was that
the Society was estopped to deny the children's title. The
latter ground, it is said, was independent of the Federal question. But the opinion of the court deals expressly with the
constitutional rights of the Savings Society, and the Society
seems to have insisted on those rights as soon as the divorce
was attacked. Tullock v. Mulvane, 184 U. S. 497, 503, 504.
As to the other point, it is at least doubtful whether the court
meant to find any estoppel except on the footing that the
property was shown to be community property. The motion
to dismiss is overruled. See Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300,
307..
On the merits, however, the plaintiff in error has no case.
It is suggested that the invalidity of the judgment for want
of jurisdiction was not put in issue in the pleadings. It is a
sufficient answer that the Supreme Court of the State treated
it as in issue. Hill v. Mendenhall, 21 Wall. 453, relied on by
the plaintiff in error, came from the Circuit Court of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

States, and when a case properly is brought here from the
Circuit Court upon constitutional grounds the whole case is
open. Homer v. United States, 143 U. S. 570. But it is otherwise when a case comes, as this does, from a state court. Osborne v. Florida,164 U. S. 650, 656; McLaughlin v. Fowler, 154
U. S. 663; Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590.
It is too late now to deny the right collaterally to impeach
a decree of divorce made in another State, by proof that the
court had no jurisdiction, even when the record purports to
show jurisdiction and the appearance of the other party. Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S. 14, 39; S. C., 176 Massachusetts,
92, 93. An attempt was made to avoid the authority of
Andrews v. Andrews by the suggestion that there the respondent in the divorce suit had disappeared before the decree.
But a respondent cannot defeat jurisdiction by disappearing.
Indeed in strictness only the attorney disappeared, and the
respondent simply ceased to defend the suit. The effect given
to the statute of Massachusetts in that case depended wholly
on contradicting the record of the divorce suit and proving
the want of jurisdiction by proving the libellant's want of
domicil in the State.
It very well may be that, if the Supreme Court of Washington had undertaken to deny the jurisdiction of the Kansas
tribunal without evidence impeaching it, such an evasion of
the Constitution would not be upheld. It may be that in fact
some circumstances were adverted to by that court which
hardly warranted an inference. But it had before it the testimony of the husband, Tull, from which it appeared that before
he made the contract for a part of the land in question he had
sold out his property and business in Kansas and had gone in
search of what he called a new location, and that when he
bought this land he decided to locate there. The land, it will
be remembered, is in Spokane, Washington. Tull was there
when the contract was made, and therefore there was ground
for the court to find that at that moment he changed his
domicil to Spokane. The contract was made on December 28,

JAMES
192 U. S.

'.

APPEL.

Argument for Appellant.

1886, and the libel for divorce in Kansas was not filed until
February 25, 1887. There was evidence warranting the finding, and that being so we take the facts as they were found.
Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA dissents.

JAMES v. APPEL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF

ARIZONA.
No. 108. Argued December 17, 1903.-Decided January 4,1904.
A statute copied from a similar statute of another State is generally presumcd to be adopted with the construction which it already has received.
There is no unconstitutional assumption of judicial power, or anything
inconsistent with the grant of common law jurisdiction to the Courts of
the Territory, in the legislature of Arizona enacting that notions for
new trials are deemed to have been overruled if not acted upon by the
end of the term at which made, the question to be subject to review
by the Supreme Court as if the motion had been overruled by the court
and exceptions reserved.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. F. Bowie, with whom Mr. Thomas B. Bishop was on
the brief, for appellant:
Paragraph 837, Rev. Stat. Arizona (1887), is directory and
not mandatory. Sutherland on Stat. Con. ยง 448; Black on
Interp. of Laws, ยง 126; Endlich on Interp. ยง436; 23 Am. &
Eng. Ency. (1st ed.) 458; Rawson v. Parsons,6 Michigan, 400;
People v. Doe, 1 Michigan, 451; Gomer v. Chaffe, 5 Colorado,
383; ยง 201 C. C. Colorado, 1877; Aspen County v. Billings, 150
vOL. oxcn-9

