OCTOBER TERMI,

1903.

Counsel for Petitioner.

192 U. S.

vail. But the primary examiner did not follow the rules.
The rules provide that if appeal be regular in form (italics
ours) he shall within five days of the filing thereof furnish the
examiners-in-chief with a written statement of the grounds of
his decision on all of the points involved in the appeal, with
copies of the rejected claims and with the references applicable thereto. If he decide that the appeal is not regular in
form, a petition from such decision may be made directly to
the Commissioner. The regularity of the appeal in form is
not questioned in the case at bar, and it was the duty of the
examiner to answer the appeal by furnishing the examinersin-chief the statement provided for in rule 135. A petition
to the Commissioner was not necessary except to make the
examiner perform his duty.
4. We do not think that petitioner was estopped from insisting upon his application by proceeding with the interference
with Duncan after the examiner's letter of December 15, 1899.
It would be pressing mere order of procedure and the convenience of the Patent Office too far to give them such result
under the circumstances.
The judgment of the Court of .4opeaps is therefore reversed
with directions to reverse that of the Supreme Court, and
direct the Supreme Court to grant the writ of mandamus
as prayedfor.

Em PareFRASCH.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF

A-NYDAilS TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 13. Original. Argued December 18, 21, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1904.

Mandamus to the Commissioner, and not to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, is the proper remedy to compel the forwarding of an
appeal to the board of examiners-in-chief from the primary examiner.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

MYr. Charles J -edrick for petitioner.

Ex Parte FRASOH.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

J.M'. Assistant Attorney GeneralMcReynolds, with whom Xr.
Tohn W. Coit was on the brief, for respondents.
MR.JuSTiOE MoKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition for a writ of mandamus to compel the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia to take jurisdiction of an appeal from the Commissioner of Patents.
The petition shows that petitioner was the first inventor of
a new and useful improvement in the art of making salt by
evaporation of brine, which improvement consisted of new and
useful means for removing incrustation of calcium sulphate
from brine heating surfaces.
Petitioner applied for a patent for his invention in due form,
and expressed his invention in six claims, three of which were
for the process of removing incrustation of calcium sulphate
from heating surfaces, and three of which were for an apparatus for use in the process.
The primary examiner decided that "two different subjects
of invention" were presented in the specification and claims,
and required a division of the claims under rule 41 of the Patent Office. A reconsideration of the decision was requested
and denied. A petition for an appeal to the board of examiners-in-chief was filed. The primary examiner refused to allow the appeal. A petition was then presented to the Commissioner of Patents praying that he make such order or take
such action that petitioner's appeal to the examiners-in-chief
might be heard, or, if that prayer be denied, that the Commissioner himself "consider the various matters all and severally raised by the appeal." Both prayers were denied and
petitioner appealed to the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia. That court dismissed the appeal for want of jurisdiction. This petition was then filed and a rule to show
cause issued. A return to the rule was duly made.
We have just held in Steinmetz v. Allen, ante, p. 543, that
rule 41 of the Patent Office, in so far as it requires a division between claims for a process and claims for an apparatus, if they
are related and dependent inventions, is invalid. We, however,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

held that mandamus to the Commissioner, not appeal to the
Court of Appeals of the District, was the proper remedy. It
follows, therefore, that the rule to show cause should be discharged and the petition be dismissed, and it is
So ordered.

CENTRAL STOCK YARDS COMPANY v. LOUISVILLE
& NASHVILLE RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FRO

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE SIXTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 149. Argued January 28, 29,1904.-Decided February 23,1904.

Neither the act of Congress of February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, nor section 213 or other provisions in the constitution of the State of Kentucky
imposes an obligation upon a railroad having its own stockyards in Louisville under a ]ease from a stockyard company, to accept live stock from
other states for delivery at the stockyards of another railroad in the same
city and neighborhood, although there is a physical connection between
the two roads.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Xr. Joseph C. -Dodd and Mr. Tin. -D. WVashburn, with
whom Xr. T . -Dodd and Xr. I. X!. Smith were on the
brief, for appellant.
Xr. Helm Bruce, with whom XArf.Charles N. Burch and
ir. Ed. Baxter were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLmEs

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a decree of the Circuit Court which dismissed
the plaintiff's bill. 118 Fed. Rep. 113. The bill was brought
by the appellant, a Delaware corporation, against a Kentucky
corporation, to compel it to receive live stock tendered to it
outside the State of Kentucky for the Central Stock Yards

