STANISLAUS COUNTY v. SAN JOAQUIN C. & I. CO. 201
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

STANISLAUS COUNTY v. SAN JOAQUIN AND KING'S
RIVER CANAL AND IRRIGATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM%THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 80. Argued November 13, 30, December 1, 1903.-Decided January 18, 1904.
A corporation although organized under a general statute may nevertheless
thereby enter into and obtain a contract from the State which may be of%
such a nature that it can only be altered in case the power to alter was,
prior thereto, provided for in the constitution or legislation of the State.
The provision in the California Water Act of 1862 that county boards of
supervisors should regulate water rates but could not reduce them below
a certain point does not amount to a contract with water companies,
which would be impaired within the meaning of the Federal Constitution
by a subsequent act either -reducing the rates below such point or
authorizing boards of supervisors to do so.
Statutes of California providing that the use of all water appropriated for
sale, rental or distribution should be a public use and subject to public
regulation and control are valid.
To regulate or establish rates for which water will be supplied is, in its
nature, the execution of one of the powers of the State, and the right of
the State to do so should not be regarded as parted with any sooner than
the right of taxation should be so regarded, and the language of the
alleged contract should in both cases be equally plain.
Although there is a limitation to the power of amendment when reserved
in the constitution or statute of a State it is not confiscation nor a taking of property without due process of law, nor a denial of the equal
protection of the laws, to fix water rates so as to give an income of six per
cent upon the then value of the property actually used, even though the
company had prior thereto been allowed to fix rates secouring one and
a half per cent per month, and if not hampered by an unalterable contract a laiv reducing the compensation as above is not unconstitutional.

THE county above named has appealed directly to this court
from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of California, setting aside an ordinance
adopted by the board of supervisors of Stanislaus County on
June 24, 1896, designating the water rates which were to be
charged by the company (appellee) to its water consumers for

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

the ensuing year. The appeal here is on the ground that the
case involved the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States, under section 5 of the act of 1891.
26 Stat. 826.
The company was incorporated in 1871, under an act of the
California legislature approved in 1853, Stat. of 1853, p. 87, as
amended in 1862, Stat. of 1862, p. 540. After its incorporation and the obtaining of the necessary land the company
built a canal or reservoir at a cost, as alleged, of about a million
dollars, and it is averred that the property was and is of that
value. Subsequently to the completion of its works the company furnished water for irrigating purposes to its customers
at rates fixed by it, which were not interfered with by the board
of supervisors up to the time of the adoption of the abovementioned ordinance of June 24, 1896. Soon afterwards the
company commenced this suit for the purpose of obtaining a
decree setting the ordinance aside and declaring it to be null
and void, and decreeing that the company was entitled to have
the rates for supplying its water to its customers and the users
thereof generally so fixed that they would in the aggregate
furnish a reasonable and just compensation for the services
rendered and a fair, just and equitable return therefor.
The act of 1862 provided in section 3, as follows:
"Every company organized as aforesaid shall have power,
and the same is hereby granted, . . . to establish, collect
and receive rates, water rents or tolls which shall be subject
to regulation by the board of supervisors of the county or
counties in which the work is situated, but which shall not be
reduced by the supervisors so low as to yield to the stockholders less than one and one-half per cent per month upon
the capital actually invested."
On March 12, 1885, the legislature passed an act, Cal. Stat.
1885, page 95, providing for the fixing by the board of supervisors of a county of the rates to be collected by water companies. Section 5 of that act authorized -the various boards
of supervisors in the State to regulate and control the water

STANISLAUS COUNTY v. SAN JOAQUIN C. & 1. CO. 203
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

rates that might be charged in their respective counties by
any person, company, association or corporation, and provided:
"Said boards of supervisors, in fixing such rates, shall, as near
as may be, so adjust them that the net annual receipts and
profits thereof to the said persons, companies, associations and
corporations so furnishing such water to such inhabitants shall
be not less than six nor more than eighteen per cent upon the
said value of the canals, ditches, flumes, chutes and all other
property actually used and useful to the appropriation and
furnishing of such water of each of such persons, companies,
associations and corporations; but in estimating such net receipts and profits the cost of any extensions, enlargements or
other permanent improvements of such water rights or waterworks shall not be included as part of the said expenses of
management, repairs and operating of such works, but when
accomplished may and shall be included in the present cost and
cash value of such work. In fixing said rates, within the
limits aforesaid, at which water shall be so furnished as to
each of such persons, companies, associations and corporations, each of said boards of supervisors may likewise take into
estimation any and all other facts, circumstances and conditions pertinent thereto, to the end and purpose that said rates
shall be equal, reasonable and just, both to such persons, companies, associations and corporations and to said inhabitants."
The complainant alleges in its bill that prior to March 12,
1885, at the time of the passage of the act of that date, the
company and its incorporators had actually invested under
the authority of the act of 1862 a capital amounting to
$971,113.13 in money, all of which was actually, reasonably
and necessarily expended by the complainant in the purchase
and construction of its canals and other property actually used
in and useful to the appropriation and furnishing of the water,
and that the property was on the last named date and still is
of the reasonable worth of $971,113.13. The complainant
averred that if the act of 1885 was construed as repealing,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

altering or amending the provisions of the act of 1862, as to
rates to be charged by the company, then that the act of 1885
was in violation of and repugnant to the provisions of article I,
section 10, of the Constitution of the United States, and as
thus construed the act of 1885 impaired the obligation of the
contract between the State of California and the complainant,
entered into under the authority of section 3 of the .act of 1862.
It was also averred that the rates, as fixed by the board under
the act of 1885, would result in taking the property of the
complainant without due process of law, and in depriving it of
the equal protection of the laws.
An answer was put in taking issue with the complainant on
the averments in its bill, and a trial was had in the Circuit
Court. That court held, 113 Fed. Rep. 930, that there was a
contract under the act of 1862, as contended for by the complainant; that the act of 1885 could not be so construed as to
permit the board of supervisors, in fixing water rates by its
authority, to entirely disregard the capital actually invested
in the property of the corporation under the act of 1862, and
that if otherwise construed the act of 1885 would run counter
to the constitutional provision that no law impairing the obligation of a contract should be passed, and the statute would
be subjected to the further objection that, as so construed, the
State would deprive complainant of its property without due
process of law, and would also deny to it the equal protection
of the laws as provided for in the Federal Constitution, and
that such provision could not be held subordinate to the constitutional power conferred upon the state legislature to alter,
amend or repeal the general laws concerning corporations.
It was also said by the court that it was the duty of the board
of supervisors to ascertain the amount of the capital actually
invested in the corporation; that is to say, the amount of the
capital actually paid in and invested in constructing the canals
and acquiring the other property used and made useful in
supplying water to the customers of the corporation in Stanislaus County, and this fact should have been considered by the

STANISLAUS COUNTY v. SAN JOAQUIN C. & I. CO. 205
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

board in fixing the water rates which the complainant was
entitled to charge under the statute; that when the board of
supervisors fixed the rates no consideration was given by it to
the evidence showing the amount of the capital actually put
into the corporation, or the actual, reasonable and proper cost
of the works; that the evidence establishes the fact that the
board failed to perform its duty in this respect, and that by
reason thereof it deprived the complainant of its property
without due process of law, and denied to it the equal protection of the laws.
The court found that the evidence showed that the rate
fixed by the board of supervisors reduced the income of the
company considerably below six per cent.upon the capital
actually invested in the property of the corporation, and if a
corresponding reduction were made in Fresno and Merced
Counties its income would, under the most favorable conditions, be reduced to less than five per cent per annum on the
value of the property as estimated by the board of supervisors.
The court also held that the company had waived the right
to fix rates as high as permitted under the act of 1862, by
failing to make them as high as therein permitted, prior to the
passage of the act of 1885, and the act of 1885, "providing
that the net annual receipts as adjusted by the board of supervisors should not be less than six nor more than eighteen per
cent per annum, is therefore properly applicable to the regulation of complainant's rates."
Mr. James P. Langhorne, with whom Mr. Duncan Hayne
and Mr. Frederic D. McKenney were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. W. B. Treadwell for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAMi, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

First. The question which first arises in this case is whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

there was a contract with the company under the act of 1862,
by reason of which the State could not thereafter authorize
the board of supervisors to reduce the rates so low as to yield
less than one and one-half per cent per month upon the capital
actually invested.
The acts of 1853 and 1862 are general laws, the former providing for the formation of corporations of the character named
therein, and the latter amending that act, and especially providing for the incorporation of canal companies and the construction of canals. No special charter was given the company
directly from the legislature otherwise than is contained in the
powers granted by the two acts above named. A company,
although organized under a general statute, may nevertheless
thereby enter into and obtain a contract from the State which
may be of such a nature that it can only be altered in case
power to alter was, prior thereto, provided for in the constitution or legislation of the State.
In Salt Company v. East Saginaw, 13 Wall. 373, it was said
by Mr. Justice Bradley, in delivering the opinion of the court,
page 378, that:
"Corporations formed under general laws in place of special
charters, like the Ohio banks under the general banking law of
that State, are entitled to the benefit of specific provisions and
exemptions contained in those laws, which are regarded in the
same light as if inserted in special charters. 'The act is as
special to each bank,' says Justice McLean, delivering the
opinion of this court, 'as if no other institutions were incorporated under it.' In such cases the scope of the act takes in
the whole period for which the corporation is formed. The
language means that, during the existence of any corporation
formed under the act, the stipulation of exemption specified
in it is to operate."
The language used in conferring power to fix rates in the act
of 1862 is to be taken as if it were contained in a special charter
granted by the legislature to this company. The question
then arises whether language such as is contained in the third

STANISLAUS
192 U. S.

COUNTY v. SAN JOAQUIN C. & I. CO. 207
Opinion of the Court.

section of that act, and which is set forth in the foregoing
statement of facts, amounts to a contract to be protected by
the Constitution of the United States? We think it does not.
It seems to us that language of this nature cannot properly
be construed as a promise or pledge that the limitation as to
rates may not be altered at any time when in the judgment
of the legislature it may be proper so to do. Water rates
which might have been perfectly reasonable at the time of the
passage of the act of 1862, although amounting to one and onehalf per cent 'per month upon the capital actually invested,
might in the course of years become exceedingly burdensome
to those who used the water and amount to a very unreasonable
compensation to the company for the water it sold. Irrigation
by means of corporations formed to supply water was in its
infancy in 1862 in California, and the risks necessarily taken
in the organization of such companies and the prosecution of
their work were then not only very large but also extremely
uncertain in character. Consequently, a rate of compensation
was proper at that time which in the course of years and the
accumulated experience as to the necessary cost of such works,
and of their successful operation including the consideration
of the risk attendant upon their operation, would make a water
rate, as provided by the act of 1862, a very unreasonable overcharge. These facts must have been present in the minds of
those who enacted the legislation of 1862, and it would be most
unreasonable to suppose that it was intended by any such
legislation to forever thereafter tie the hands of the State in
regard to all companies organized under the act of 1862 and
before the passage of the act of 1885.
The authority given by the act of 1862 enabled the board of
supervisors to conditionally regulate the rates. There is no
promise made in the act that the legislature would not itself
subsequently alter that authority. The State simply authorized its agents, the boards of supervisors, to regulate rates,
but not to reduce them below a certain point. We do not
think that from"this language a contract can or ought to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

implied that the State might not thereafter authorize the
boards to reduce them, or that it might not itself do so directly.
Even as between individuals, such an implication would not
be a reasonable one from the language used, and as the contract if it existed, would take away from the legislature its
otherwise undoubted right of regulation upon a subject of
great public importance, there is still less reason for implying
a contract which would prevent the State from using its power
to that end for the future. The language of this portion of the
act applies to the boards and limits their right of reduction,
leaving unhampered the right of the State to interfere directly
or by authorizing the boards to reduce the rates below the
point stated in the act. In order to make such a contract the
language must be plain and susceptible of no other reasonable
construction. Freeport Company v. Freeport City, 180 U. S.
587, 599, citing Railroad Commission Cases, 116 U. S. 307, 325.
In our belief, the language of the act of 1862 does not and
was not intended to form a contract, but simply amounted to
the statement of the then pleasure of the legislature, to so
remain until subsequently altered by it. The cases heretofore
decided in this court are authority for this view. Some of
them are now referred to.
In Rector &c. of Christ Church v. Philadelphia,24 How. 300,
the following language was used in the statute: "The real
property, including ground rents, now belonging and payable
to Christ Church Hospital, in the city of Philadelphia, so long
as the same shall continue to belong to the said hospital, shall
be and remain free from taxes." A subsequent law provided
that all property belonging to an association or incorporated
company which was then by law exempt from taxation should
thereafter be subject to taxation in the same manner as other
property. The later law was held not to be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States. It was held that language
such as this was nothing but in the nature of a privilege, which
existed only during the pleasure of and might be revoked by
the sovereign power whenever it chose so to do.

STANISLAUS COUNTY v. SAN JOAQUIN C. & I. CO. 209
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Salt Company v. East Saginaw, 13 Wall. 373, supra, was a
case where the court held that the language used was that conferring a bounty, and that it did not amount to a contract in
such a sense that it could not. be repealed, although it did
grant an exemption from taxation of the property used for
the purpose of obtaining salt. In regard to the language
exempting the property from taxation the court said:
"The law in question says to all: You shall have a bounty
of ten cents per bushel for all salt manufactured, and the
property used shall be free from taxes. But it does not say
how long this shall continue; nor do the parties who enter
upon the business promise how long they will continue the
manufacture. It is an arrangement determinable at the will
of either of the parties, as much so as the hiring of a laboring
man by the day."
In Tucker v. Ferguson,22 Wall. 527, it was also held that an
act of the legislature exempting property of a railroad company
from taxation was not a contract to exempt it unless there
were a consideration for the act; that, without it, the promise
was of a gratuity spontaneously made, which might be kept,
changed or recalled, at pleasure, and that the rule applies to
the agreements of States made without consideration as well
as to ihose of persons.
In Welch v. Cook, 97 U. S. 541, the act of the legislative
assembly of the District of Columbia of June 26, 1873, exempted
from general taxes for ten years thereafter such real and personal property as might be actually employed within the District for manufacturing purposes. It was held that the language did not create an irrepealable contract with the owners
of such property, but simply conferred a bounty, liable at any
time to be withdrawn.
In Grand Lodge &c. v. New Orleans, 166 U. S. 143, the
language exempted the property from taxation "so long as
it is occupied as a Grand Lodge of the F. and A. Masons;"
and it was held that it did not constitute a contract between
the State and the plaintiff, but was a mere continuing gratuity,
VOL. oxcii-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

which the legislature was at liberty to terminate and withdraw
at any time.
In Wisconsin & Michigan Railway Company v. Power, decided at this term, 191 U. S. 379, the language of the act was:
"That the rate of taxation fixed by this act or any other law
of this State shall not apply to any railway company hereafter
building and operating a line of railroad within this State
north of parallel forty-four of latitude, until the same has been
operated for the full period of ten years, unless the gross earnings shall equal four thousand dollars per mile." After the
railroad company had been organized, and while that act was
in force and on June 4, 1897, the State passed a law levying a
specific tax upon the property and business of every railroad
corporation operated within the State. The road in question
would have been entitled to the exemption stated in the prior
law if it were in force. The railroad contended that it had a
contract by virtue of the language above set forth. This court
held that no contract arose from the language used, and that
consequently the subsequent act providing for taxation did
not violate the Federal Constitution in regard to contracts.
Sufficient cases have been cited to show that language quite
as strong as that used in the act of 1862 does not amount to a
contract. It is true that the cases cited involved questions of
alleged contracts for exemption from taxation, in regard to
which it has been said that no presumption exists in favor of a
contract by a State to exempt lands from taxation, and that
every reasonable doubt should be resolved against it. Statutes
of California providing that the use of all water appropriated
for sale, rental or distribution should be a public use and subject to public regulation and control are valid, San Diego &c.
Company v. National City, 174 U. S. 739, and companies formed
for the purpose of furnishing water for irrigation purposes have
been held in that State to be public municipal corporations,
and the use of the water for the purpose mentioned a public
use. See cases cited in Fallbroolc IrrigationDistrict v. Bradley,
164 U. S. 112, 159. To regulate or establish rates for which

STANISLAUS COUNTY v. SAN JOAQUIN C. & I. CO. 211
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

water will be supplied is in its nature the execution of one of
the powers of the State, and the right of the State so to do
should not be regarded as parted with any sooner than the
right of taxation should be so regarded, and the language of
the alleged contract should in both cases be equally plain.
Owensboro v. Owensboro Waterworks Company, 191 U. S. 358.
In our judgment the language of the act of 1862 did not
amount to a contract that the rates for the use of water should
never be lowered below the amount provided for in that act.
Second. But assuming there was a contract, we think the
rates could be changed under that provision of the constitution of the State adopted in 1849, article 4, section 31, which
provided:
"Corporations may be formed under general laws, but shall
not be created by special act except for municipal purposes.
All general laws and special acts passed pursuant to this section may be altered from time to time or repealed."
This court has had frequent occasion to discuss the meaning
and extent of the power thus reserved, as it exists in about all
the States, either by constitutional or statutory provisions.
Tomlinson v. Jessup, 15 Wall. 454, held that the object of
reserving a power to amend or repeal (p. 458) was:
"To prevent a grant of corporate rights and privileges in a
form which will preclude legislative interference with their
exercise if the public interest should at any time require such
interference. It is a provision intended to preserve to the
State control over its contract with the corporators, which
without that provision would be irrepealable and protected
from any measures affecting its obligation."
It was also said (p. 459):
"The reservation affects the entire relation between the
State and the corporation, and places under legislative control
all rights, privileges and immunities derived by its charter
directly from the State."
In Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319, it was stated that by virtue
of the power to alter, revoke or repeal an act, as provided in

OCTOBER TERAM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

the constituiton of Ohio, section 2, article 1, the legislature did
not impair the obligation of a contract in prescribing rates for
passenger transportation by a new consolidated company,
although one of the original companies prior to the adoption
of the constitution was organized under a charter which imposed no limitation as to rates.
In Close v. Glenwood Cemetery, 107 U. S. 466, it was again
held that a power reserved in the legislature to alter, amend
or repeal a charter authorizes it to make any alteration or
amendment of the charter granted, subject to it, which will
not defeat or substantially impair the object of the grant, or
any rights vested under it, and which the legislature may deem
necessary to secure either that object or any public right.
The same principle was decided in Sinking Fund Cases, 99
U. S. 700, 720; New York &c. Railroad v. Bristol, 151 U. S.
556, and United States v. Union Pacific Railway, 160 U. S. 1,
33.
Covington v. Kentucky, 173 U. S. 231, decided that language
describing certain property, and providing that it should be and
remain forever exempt from state, county and city tax, did
not prevent the legislature from withdrawing such exemption
and subjecting the property to taxation, in view of the statute
that all charters and grants of the corporations should be
subject to amendment or repeal at will of the legislature.
Mr. Justice Harlan, in delivering the opinion of the court, said
(p. 238):
"We are of. opinion that the exemption from taxation embodied in that act did not tie the hands of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky so that it could not, by legislation, withdraw
such exemption and subject the property in question to taxation. The act of 1886 was passed subject to the provision in
a general statute of Kentucky, above referred to, that all statutes 'shall be subject to amendment or repeal at the will of the
legislature, unless a contrary intent be therein plainly expressed.' If that act in any sense constituted a contract between the city and the Commonwealth, the reservation in an

STANISLAUS COUNTY v. SAN JOAQUIN 0. & I. CO. 213
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

existing general statute of the right to amend or repeal it was
itself a part of that contract."
To the same effect is Knoxville Water Company v. Knoxville,
189 U. S. 434.
These cases also hold that there is a limitation, even to the
power of amendment when reserved in the constitution or a
statute of a State. Some of the cases, although holding that
the power to amend or repeal was properly exercised in them,
also state that the power is not without limit; that the alterations must be reasonably made, in good faith and consistent
with the scope and object of the act of incorporation, and that
sheer oppression and wrong could not be inflicted under the
guise of amendment or alteration; that beyond the sphere of
the reserved powers the vested rights of property in corporations in such cases is surrounded by the same sanction and are
as inviolable as in other cases. In reiterating this view of the
power, we think that a mere reduction of rates, while still
leaving reasonable, fair or just compensation for the use of the
property, is not prohibited, and we are quite clear that, even
assuming there was a contract, the legislature nevertheless had
the power to so alter and amend the act of 1862 as to provide
for the fixing of rates as set forth in the act of 1885.
It is not confiscation nor a taking of property without due
process of law, nor a denial of the equal protection of the laws,
to fix water rates so as to give an income of six per cent upon
the then value of the property actually used, for the purpose
of supplying water as provided by law, even though the company had prior thereto been allowed to fix rates that would
secure to it one and a half per cent a month income upon the
capital actually invested in the undertaking. If not hampered
by an unalterable contract, providing that a certain compensation should always be received, we think that a law which
reduces the compensation theretofore allowed to six per cent
upon the present value of the property used for the public is
not unconstitutional, There is nothing in the nature of confiscation about it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

The original cost may have been too great; mistakes of construction, even though honest, may have been made, which
necessarily enhanced the cost; more property may have been
acquired than necessary or needful for the purpose intended.
Other circumstances might exist which would show the original rates much too large for fair or reasonable compensation
at the present time. Notwithstanding such facts, are the
shareholders in the company to be forever entitled to eighteen
per cent upon this cost, and does a reduction in amount, as
provided for in the act of 1885, take away property in violation of the provisions of the Federal Constitution? We think
not.
In this case much of the total amount expended in the course
of the construction of the works was not proved by those who
made such expenditures, and the items and total amount of
the cost of construction were only proved by the books. What
such books did not prove was the reasonableness of that cost,
its propriety or necessity. There were statements that appeared in the minutes of the meetings of the shareholders which
were put in evidence, that showed at least a dispute as to the
proper cost of the works, and at one of these meetings a shareholder said there had been a waste in the management of the
affairs of the company amounting to $350,000, which was
caused by the chief engineer who had been in charge of the
canal, and that his mistakes had cost the company a good
deal of money. There would seem to have been more of a
dispute as to who was responsible for this loss than over the
fact of loss. At another meeting held in December, 1881, the
president had said in his remarks to the meeting that, in his
opinion, with careful management the canal would pay a fair
revenue on what it ought to have cost. Although these minutes
did not conclusively prove the fact of the excessive cost of the
work, yet where the books of the company were substantially
the only evidence of the amount expended and there was no
other satisfactory evidence of the reasonableness of the expenditures, it would not be surprising if the board should have

STANISLAUS COUNTY v. SAN JOAQUIN 0. & I. CO. 215
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

regarded the statements in the minutes relating to excessive
cost as a justification, if not a requirement, for the reduction
of the cost of construction, upon which rates might be fixed,
by at least the amount mentioned, $350,000.
Other considerations, in the shape of facts, circumstances and
conditions pertinent to the alleged cost of the work and appearing in the course of the inquiry, may have been considered by
the supervisors and the conclusion arrived at, after a consideration of all the material facts, that the rates fixed would result
in justice to both the company and the consumers, as called
for by the act.
Judging by this record, we are unable to say the board of
supervisors failed to provide just and fair compensation for the
use of the property by the public.
t'n San Diego Land Company v. National City, 174 U. S. 739,
it was held, (following Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 543, 544,)
that what the company was entitled to demand in order that
it might have just compensation was a fair return upon the
reasonable value of the property at the time it was being used
for the public. The appellants in that case contended that in
fixing what were just rates the court should take into consideration the cost of the plant and of its annual operation, the
depreciation of the plant, and a fair profit to the company
above its charges for its services. It was observed by the court
that undoubtedly all these matters ought to be taken into
consideration and such weight be given them, when rates are
being fixed, as under all the circumstances would be just to the
company and to the public. The same principle is reaffirmed
in San Diego Land &c. Company v. Jasper, 189 U. S.439, 442.
After taking such facts into consideration, the company
might still be directed to receive rates that would be nothing
more than a fair and just compensation or return upon the
reasonable value of the property at the time it was being used
for the supplying of the water to the public.
To take the amount actually invested into "estimation"
does not mean necessarily that such amount is to control the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

decision of the question of rates. Other language would have
been employed to express that thought. The cost may be
estimated, says the act, but that leaves open a reference to
the other facts adverted to in the latter part of section 5, and
it is upon a consideration of the whole case that the board
is to determine what shall be reasonable, just and equal to all
parties. The record would seem to show that the board did
take these various matters into consideration in coming to the
conclusion it did in regard to the value of the property, although giving much less weight to such alleged cost than the
company thought was proper. The board added over $25,000
to the amount proved as the present cost of the construction
of the canals, based on the prices of material, supplies and
labor, of the date when the estimate was made, that estimate
being $312,000, while the board fixed the valuation at $337,000.
Much of the capital was invested between twenty and thirty
years ago, and to be able still to realize six per cent upon the
money originally invested is more than most people are able to
accomplish in any ordinary investment, and more than is necessary in order to give just compensation for property at the
time it is used for the public purpose originally intended.
It is, of course, impossible to say what rates may be adopted
in the other counties through which this canal runs, and that
is one of the embarrassments under which the parties suffer
from the language of the statute of 1885. Heretofore the
company has fixed its own rates therein. Exactly how the
question may be hereafter determined as to the percentage of
income, where there are three different boards of supervisors
who may fix rates for their respective counties, each differing
from the other, is not made clear by the statute. The complainant admits that the rates provided for by the supervisors
under the act of 1885, if applied to all three counties, would
allow complainant an income of substantially six per cent on
$337,000, being $25,000 more than the present cost of the work
would be, as shown by uncontradicted and satisfactory evidence. Those rates exist in the other counties at present.

BEDFORD v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Hereafter, in case the other counties should fix rates in such
manner that, taken as a whole, the rates in the three counties
would not insure an income of at least six per cent, as provided
for in the act of 1885, the company would of course not be
bound to accept such rates, and a decree in this case would not
bind it in regard to the propriety of rates for the future, as
fixed by the ordinance of 1896 for the county of Stanislaus. ,
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed and the
bill dismissed without prejudice.
So ordered.

BEDFORD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROI THE COURT OF CLA!IS.
No.23. Argued December 9, 1903.-Decided January 18, 1904.
Damages to land by flooding as the result of revetments erected by the
United States along the banks of the Mississippi River to prevent erosion
of the banks from natural causes are consequential and do not constitute
a taking of the lands flooded within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution. Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S.
269, followed; United States v. Lijnah, 188 U. S. 445, distinguished.

TrE appellants were owners of land on the Mississippi River,
in the State of Louisiana, amounting to five thousand or six
thousand acres, upon which were cabins, other buildings and
fences. They brought suit in the Court of Claims for damages
to their lands, alleged to have resulted from certain works of
the United States. The damages consisted, as found by the
court, of the erosion and overflow of about twenty-three hundred acres of the land. The works of the government and
their operation are described by the court in the following
findings:
"Prior to the spring of 1876 the Mississippi River flowed

