BANKERS CASUALTY CO. v. MINN. ST. P. &c. RY. 371
192 U. S.

Syllabus.

Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S. 608, on tobacco manufactured for
consumption.
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, and Fairbankv. United
States, 181 U. S. 283, are not in point. In the one the clause
of the Constitution was considered which forbids any State,
without the consent of Congress, to "lay any imposts or duties
on imports or exports," and in the other, that "no tax or duty
shall be laid on articles exported from any State." The distinction between direct and indirect taxes was not involved
in either case.
The sale of stocks is a particular business transaction in the
exercise of the privilege afforded by the laws in respect to corporations of disposing of property in the form of certificates.
The stamp duty is contingent on the happening of the event
of sale, and the element of absolute and unavoidable demand
is lacking. As such it falls, as stamp taxes ordinarily do,
within the second class of the forms of taxation.
Judgment affirmed.

BANKERS MUTUAL CASUALTY COMPANY v. MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL AND SAULT SAINTE MARIE RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
Ho. 141. Argued January 22,1904.-Decided February 23,1904..

Although suits may involve the Constitution or laws of the United States,
they are not suits arising thereunder where they do not turn on a controversy between the parties in regard to the operation thereof, on the facts.
Nor does a case arise under the Constitution or laws of the United States
unless it appears from plaintiff's own statement, in the outset, that some
title, right, privilege or immunity on which recovery depends will be defeated by one construction of the Constitution or laws of the United States
or sustained by the opposite construction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

In an action commenced in the Circuit. Court, by a citizen of one State
against a railroad company, citizen of another State, for damages for
a loss of a registered mail package, where the plaintiff relied on principles
of general law applicable to negligence and to the liability of defendant
if there was negligence, the fact that the suit involved the relations of
the Railroad Company to the government did not put in controversy
the construction of any provision of the Constitution or of any law
of the United States on which the recovery depended and the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals was final and the writ of error is dismissed.

action was originally brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Minnesota by the German
State Bank of Harvey, North Dakota, for which the Bankers
Mutual Casualty Company of Iowa was subsequently substituted as plaintiff, against the Minneapolis, St. Paul and Sault
Sainte Marie Railway Company of Minnesota. The averments
gave jurisdiction on the ground of diversity of citizenship. A
demurrer to the original complaint was sustained for reasons
stated by Lochren, J. 113 Fed. Rep. 414. Thereupon "an
amended and substituted complaint" was filed, and on demurrer judgment was rendered in favor of defendant, and
affirmed on error by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit. 117 Fed. Rep. 434. This writ or error was then
allowed.
The amended complaint was as follows:
"That the Bankers Mutual Casualty Company, during all of
the year A. D. 1900, and up to the present time, is and was a
corporation, duly organized under the laws of the State of
Iowa, and a citizen of said State, with its principal place of
business at Des Moines, in said State, engaged in the business
of insuring banks against loss from robbery and burglary,
including the insurance against loss of packages of money,
while in the course of transmission from place to place, while
regularly carried in the United States registered mails.
"That defendant, during all of the year A. D. 1900, and up
to the present time, is and was a corporation, duly organized
under the laws of the State of Minnesota and a citizen of said
State, with its principal place of business at Minneapolis, in
THIS

BANKERS CASUALTY CO. ?. MINN. ST. P. &c. RY. 373
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

said State, engaged in operating a line of railroad situated in
the States of Minnesota and North Dakota.
"That the German State Bank, during all of the year A. D.
1900, and up to the present time, is and was a corporation,
duly organized under the laws of the State of North Dakota,
and a citizen of said State, with its principal place of business
at the town of Harvey, in said State, engaged in a general
banking business at said town.
"That during the whole year A. D. 1900, and up to the
present time, defendant is and was engaged in carrying the
United States mails between the terminal and intermediate
stations located upon and along its said line of railroad, under
and by virtue of the statutes and laws of the United States,
and the regulations established by the Post Office Department
of the United States government, and in pursuance of a fixing
of the compensation to be paid to defendant by the United
States government for carrying said mails and the person in
charge thereof, based upon the last preceding reweighing of
said mails and upon notice in writing, in the usual form, from
the Second Assistant Postmaster General of the United States,
requiring defendant to carry said mails and the person in
charge thereof.
"That said depot, at or near the town of Harvey, was an
intermediate station on that part of defendant's said line of
railroad within the State of North Dakota, which extends
from the station at Hankinson to the station at Portal, and
the railroad line between said stations at Hankinson and Portal
is designated by and known to the Post Office Department of
the United States, as railroad route No. 161,018, being a distance of 344.58 miles, and the compensation fixed by the
United States Post Office Department to be paid annually
by the United States to defendant during all of the period
herein referred to for the carriage of said mails and the person
in charge thereof is and was the sum of sixty-four thousand
eight hundred and fifteen and 49-100 dollars ($64,815.49), at
the rate of $188.10 per mile.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

"That this substituted plaintiff is not in possession of the
aforesaid notice to defendant, and is unable to attach to this
petition said notice or a true copy thereof.
"That during all of the period hereinbefore referred to there
was no contract of any kind between defendant and the United
states government concerning or providing for the carriage,
by defendant, of said mails, or any part thereof, or of the person in charge of said mails, upon or along defendant's said line
of railway or any part thereof.
"That on or about the 10th day of November, A. D. 1900,
the Metropolitan Bank, a corporation organized under the
laws of the State of Minnesota, was engaged in transacting
a general banking business in the city of Minneapolis, in said
State, and on or about said date said bank deposited in the
United States mails, at Minneapolis, in said State, a package
containing lawful money of the United States, commonly
known and called currency, of the actual cash value of three
thousand dollars ($3000.00), in an envelope properly addressed
to the German State Bank at Harvey, North Dakota, and
prepaid thereon the postage and registration fee, and said
package was thereupon duly registered by the postmaster of
said post office. That from and after the time of depositing
said package in said post office at Minneapolis, said package
and its contents was the property of said German State Bank.
"That said registered package was covered by insurance and
indemnity against loss while in transit through the United
States mails from Minneapolis to said Harvey, under a policy
of insurance issued by said Bankers Mutual Casualty Company, the substituted plaintiff, said insurance being for the
use and benefit of said German State Bank. That a true copy
of said policy is hereto attached as part hereof, and marked
Exhibit 'A.'
"That on or about November 10th, A. D. 1900, and while
said package was in good safety and prior to the departure of
the train carrying said registered package, said Metropolitan
Bank deposited in the United States mails, at the post office

BANKERS CASUALTY CO. v. MINN. ST. P. &c. RY. 375
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

in said city of Minneapolis, a letter of advice, properly addressed to said Bankers Mutual Casualty Company at Des
Moines, Iowa, with postage thereon prepaid; that said letter
of advice notified said Bankers Mutual Casualty Company,
of the shipment by said Metropolitan Bank of said sum of
three thousand dollars to said German State Bank of Harvey,
and upon said mailing of said letter of advice, the contract of
insurance and indemnity of said registered package of currency
immediately attached thereto and became a valid and complete contract of insurance and indemnity by the said Bankers
Mutual Casualty Company, in favor of said German State
Bank.
"That in the regular course of transmission of the United
States mails between the said city of Minneapolis and the said
town of Harvey, said registered package was duly delivered
by the post office officials of said city of Minneapolis to the
railway mail clerk or other proper postal official, and placed
in a railway mail car or other proper car, the property of defendant, then standing upon defendant's said line of railway,
and was transported by defendant railway company to defendant's railway depot or station, situated in or near said
town of Harvey, North Dakota.
"That prior to the arrival of said registered package at said
town of Harvey, the same, together with other registered mail
packages and other mail matter, was, by said railway mail
clerk in charge of said mails, duly inclosed in a regular United
States mail sack or mail pouch, which said mail sack or mail
pouch was securely locked or fastened by the official government strap and lock.
"That from and after the time of the depositing of the mail
sack containing said currency in defendant's mail car at Minneapolis, Minnesota, for the purpose of transit and transportation for delivery at Harvey, North Dakota, the same was under
the exclusive care, custody and control of the postal clerks,
regularly employed by the United States government and in
charge of the mail in said car; that the mail sacks containing

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

said registered package, from and after the time of its delivery
in said postal car, to the proper postal clerks therein, up to and
including the delivery of said mail sack at Harvey, North
Dakota, was in the exclusive care, custody and control of the
said postal clerks or authorities.
"That upon the arrival of defendant's said train and postal
car at said town of Harvey, North Dakota, said railway mail
clerk or other postal official, between eleven and twelve o'clock
of said night, delivered said mail sack, duly locked, together
with said registered package of currency therein contained, to
one James Magson, the night station agent, or night operator of
defendant at said town of Harvey; that said night station agent,
or night operator, was not sworn as an official or employ6 of the
Post Office Department of the United States government, as
required by law, but was then and there employed and duly
authorized by the defendant to receive and take charge of all
mail matter received over defendant's said line of railway, at
said town of Harvey, including the mail sack or mail pouch
containing said package of currency, and to deposit same in
defendant's depot, at Harvey, North Dakota, and did so receive, take charge of and deposit said mail sack or mail pouch.
"That defendant was not sworn as an official or employ6 of
the Post Office Department of the United States government,
and had not subscribed or sworn to any oath relating to or
concerning the carriage of the United States mails, or the performance of defendant's duties as such carrier of the mails.
"That section 713 of the postal laws and regulations of the
United States of the year A. D. 1893, which was in force at the
time of the receipt and transmission of said registered package
is in words and figures as follows, to wit: 'The railroad company will also be required to take the mails from and deliver
them into all intermediate post offices and postal stations
located not more than eighty rods from the nearest railroad
station at which the company has an agent or other representative employed.'
"That said post office at Harvey was an intermediate post

BANKERS CASUALTY CO. v. MINN. ST. P. &c. RY. 377
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

office, and was located not more than eighty rods from defendant's railroad station, or depot, at or near said town of Harvey.
"That under said postal regulation it was the duty of said
defendant to provide a sufficient and safe receptacle or place
for the safety and security of said mail, while in its said custody,
also to safely care for and guard said mail sack and its contents
during the night, also to safely deliver the same to the postmaster or postmistress at the post office in said town of Harvey,
North Dakota.
"But neglecting its said duty in the premises, defendant
wholly failed and neglected to provide any receptacle or place
for the safe or secure keeping of mail, and also failed to place
a duly sworn official in charge of said mail sack, and further
wholly failed to safely care for or guard said mail sack and its
contents, and also wholly failed to safely deliver the same at
the post office to the postmaster in said town of Harvey. That
by reason of defendant's said negligence, some person, to this
plaintiff unknown, in some manner not known to this plaintiff,
obtained access to said mail sack and opened the same, and
abstracted or took therefrom said registered package, whereby
the same was wholly lost to said German State Bank.
"That one George A. Soule was then the road master or
foreman employed by said defendant at said town of Harvey,
or one of defendant's employ6s or servants, but was not sworn
in as an official or employ6 of the Post Office Department, as
required by law, and was not authorized or employed by defendant to take charge of said mail sack or to perform any
duty in relation thereto and had no right of access to said
mail sack, or to the mail therein contained, by virtue of his
said employment by defendant.
"That said Soule had previously unlawfully obtained and
caused to be made, a key to the United States government
mail sacks or mail pouches, and personally, or with the aid and
assistance of some person or persons, to this plaintiff unknown,
did enter one of the rooms contained in the said depot building, where said mail sack or mail pouch had been placed by

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

192 U. S.

defendant's operator or night agent, on the floor or wall of
said room, and not in any separate room, closet or other safe
receptacle, capable of being securely fastened against any intruder or unauthorized person, by lock and key or otherwise.
That said room was not designed for or capable of safely
keeping valuable articles of property.
"That said Soule, or other person, had no right of access to
said room, or to said mail sack or mail pouch, but through the
negligence of defendant and its said night operator or night
agent, as set forth in this complaint, did gain entrance to said
room and obtain access to said mail sack or mail pouch, and
the mail matter therein contained, and did find said mail sack
or mail pouch situated or placed as above set forth, so that the
same was readily accessible to any person gaining entrance
to said room, and did find said mail sack or mail pouch wholly
unprotected and unguarded by said night operator or otherwise.
"That said Soule, or other person, by reason of the aforesaid negligence of said defendant and its said night agent or
night operator, did obtain access to said mail sack or mail
pouch and did unlock the same and abstract and take therefrom the aforesaid registered package, containing said three
thousand dollars ($3000) in currency and did unlawfully convert the same to his use and benefit, and the same has never
been delivered or returned to said German State Bank or to
said Metropolitan Bank of Minneapolis, or to this plaintiff,
the Bankers Mutual Casualty Company, or to any one for the
benefit of any of them."
[Then followed averments of payment to the German State
Bank by the Casualty Company under its policy of insurance;
of demand on defendant for repayment, and refusal; of subrogation and assignment; and prayer for judgment.]
Mr. A. U. Quint, with whom Mr. Horatio F. Dale, Mr.
William Connor and Mr. George W. Bowen were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error:
On the jurisdictional question: The case involved the con-

BANKERS CASUALTY CO. v. MINN. ST. P. &c. RY. 379
192 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

struction and application of the statutes of the United States
relating to mails and of the Postal- Regulations especially
§§ 713 and 1023, edition of 1893. See Teal v. Felton, 12
How. (N. Y.) 284. The statutes of the United States impose
a duty on defendant to safely care for the mail carried by
it.
The case also involves the question of exemption of a railway company, carrying the mail, from liability under the rule
of respondeat superior, either as a public agent of the United
States, or as a private corporation for profit, performing the
duty in question, established by the statutes of the United
States. The Circuit Court of Appeals and the Circuit Court
-having each held, in effect, that the railway company was
entitled to the exemption in this respect which the law gives
to one who is strictly a principal public officer.
This case comes within the exception contained in section
6 of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act of 1891, 1 Supp.
U. S. Stats. 904. This case falls within the provision above
quoted, as construed by several decisions of this court. Howard v. United States to use of Stewart (1902), 184 U. S. 676,
and cases cited; Robinson & Co. v. Belt, 187 U. S. 41; McFaddin v. Evans-Snider-Buel Co., 185 U. S. 505; Studebaker
v. Perry, 184 U. S. 258; Marande v. Tex. & P. R. Co., 184 U. S.
173; Press Pub. Co. v. Monroe, 164 U. S. 105; Bolies v. Outing
Co., 175 U. S. 262; Brady v. Daly, 175 U. S. 148; Auten v.
United States National Bank, 174 U. S. 125; Sonnentheil v.
C. M. Brewing Co., 172 U. S. 401; Union P. R. Co. v. Harris,
158 U. S. 326; N. Pac. R. Co. v. Amato, 144 U. S. 465; Security
Trust Co. v. Dent, 187 U. S. 237.
Mr. Alfred H. Bright for defendant in error:
As to the jurisdictional question: The Circuit Court acquired
jurisdiction on the ground of diverse citizenship and the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final. Colorado Cen.
Mining Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S. 138; Borgmeyer v. Idler, 159
U. S. 408; Loeb v. Columbia Township, 179 U. S. 472; Am.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

Sugar Rig. Co. v. New Orleans, 181 U. S. 277; Huguley v. Galeton Cotton Mills, 184 U. S. 290.
The sufficiency of this complaint to sustain the claim of
jurisdiction on the ground that it shows a suit "arising under
the Constitution or laws of the United States" must be tested
by rules firmly settled by the decisions of this court. GoldWashing Company v. Keyes, 96 U. S. 199, 202; Am. Sugar Rfg.
Co. v. New Orleans, 181 U. S. 277, and cases cited; Ansbro v.
United States, 159 U. S. 695; McCain v. Des Moines, 174 U. S.
168; Bridge Proprietors v. Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116, 143;
Starin v. New York, 115 U. S. 248, and cases cited p. 257;
Shreveport v. Cole, 129 U. S. 36; New Orleans v. Benjamin, 153
U. S. 411, 424; St. Joseph &c. Ry. v. Steele, 167 U. S. 659;
Hanford v. Davies, 163 U. S. 273, 279; West, Un. Tel. Co. v.
Ann Arbor R. R., 178 U. S. 239, 243.
Not every suit springing out of facts related to the authority
of the United States or to the Constitution or laws thereof,
regardless of the nature of that relation, may be said to be a
suit arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
Metcalf v. Watertown, 128 U. S. 586; Mail Company v. Flanders, 12 Wall. 130; Albright v. Teas, 106 U. S. 613; Hartzell v.
Tilghmann,99 U. S. 547; Little v. Hall, 18 How. 165; Blackburn
v. Portland Mining Co., 175 U. S. 571; Shoshone Mining Co.
v. Rutter, 177 U. S. 505; Bausman v. Dixon, 173 U. S. 113;
Pope v. Railway Co., 173 U. S 573; McKenna v- Simpson, 129
U. S. 506; Provident Savings Soc. v. Ford, 114 U. S. 635; Price
v. Railway Co., 113 U. S. 218.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

If the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depended entirely on
diversity of citizenship, the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals was made final by the act of March 3, 1891, and this
writ of error must be dismissed. But it is contended that
jurisdiction also rested on the ground that the case arose under

BANKERS CASUALTY CO.
192 U. S.

. MINN. ST. P. &c. RY. 381

Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution or laws of the United States, and that must
be tested by the settled rule that a suit does not so arise unless
it really and substantially involves a dispute or controversy
as to the effect or construction of the Constitution or some
law or treaty of the United States, upon the determination
of which the result depends, and which appears on the record
by plaintiff's own statement of his case in legal and logical
form, such as is required in good pleading. Tennessee v. Union
& Planters Bank, 152 U. S. 454; Arbuckle v. Blackburn, 191
U. S. 405; Defiance Water Company v. Defiance, 191 U. S. 184;
Gold-Washingq &c. Company v. Keyes, 96 U. S. 199; Starin v.
New York, 115 U. S. 248.
The amended complaint alleged that defendant was engaged
in carrying the mails by virtue of the laws and postal regulations of the United States; that a registered package of currency was deposited in the mails, delivered to the mail clerk
on the proper mail car belonging to defendant, duly inclosed
-with other mail matter in a securely locked mail sack, and
transported by defendant to its station at Harvey; that the
mail clerk between eleven and twelve o'clock at night delivered the mail sack duly locked and containing the registered
package of currency to the night station agent of defendant
at the town of Harvey, who was duly authorized by defendant to receive and take charge of all mail matter received there
on defendant's railway, neither defendant nor the station agent
having taken the oath as officials or employ6s of the Post
Office Department; and it was then averred:
"That section 713 of the postal laws and regulations of the
United States of the year A. D. 1893, which was in force at the
time of the receipt and transmission of said registered package,
is in words and figures as follows, to wit: 'The railroad company will also be required to take the mails from and deliver
them into all intermediate post offices and postal stations
located not more than 80 rods from the nearest railroad station
at which the company has an agent or other representative
employed.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

"That said post office at Harvey was an intermediate post
office and was located not more than 80 rods from defendant's
railroad station, or depot, at or near said town of Harvey.
"That under said postal regulation it was the duty of said
defendant to provide a sufficient and safe receptacle or place
for the safety and security of said mail, while in its said custody; also to safely care for and guard said mail sack and its
contents during the night; also to safely deliver the same to
the postmaster or postmistress at the post office in said town
of Harvey, North Dakota.
"But neglecting its said duty in the premises, defendant
wholly failed and neglected to provide any receptacle or place
for the safe or secure keeping of mail, and also failed to place
a duly sworn official in charge of said mail sack, and further
wholly failed to safely care for or guard said mail sack and its
contents, and also wholly failed to safely deliver the same at
the post office to the postmaster in said town of Harvey."
And further, that defendant's roadmaster entered the depot,
unlocked the mail bag with a key he had unlawfully caused
to be made, abstracted the package of currency and converted its contents; that the room where the mail bag was
placed was "not designed or capable of safely keeping valuable
articles or property," and that it was through the negligence
of defendant and its station agent that the man gained entrance to the room-and obtained access to the mail bag.
It will be perceived that plaintiff relied on principles of
general law applicable to negligence, and to the liability of
defendant if there were negligence, and nowhere asserted a
right which might be defeated or sustained by one or another
construction of the Constitution or of any law of the United
States. The complaint did indeed deny that there was any
contract between defendant and the government, but that
was merely a conclusion of law, inconsistent with the statutes,
and with the facts alleged. And whether the duty counted
on was imposed by law, or arose from contract, the question
remained whether defendant was a public agent of the United

BANKERS CASUALTY CO. v. MINN. ST. P. &c. RY. 383
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States and the consequences of that relation, and the construction of no provision of the Constitution or of any law of
the United States on which the recovery depended was put
in controversy.
In other words, no definite issue in respect of a right claimed
under the Constitution or any law of the United States was
deducible from plaintiff's statement of its case, and if the postal
regulations could, under circumstances, be regarded as laws
of the United States creating a right which might be denied
or secured according to one construction or another, it did not
appear that the construction of the extract from section 713
of those regulations was in any way in dispute or could have
been. And the averments of the complaint cannot be helped
out by resort to the other pleadings or to judicial knowledge.
Mountain View &c. Company v. McFadden, 180 U. S. 533;
Arkansas v. Kansas and Texas Coal Company, 183 U. S. 185.
The Constitution empowers Congress to establish post offices
and post roads, and Congress has passed laws accordingly,
pursuant to which defendant was carrying the mails. But
the alleged cause of action was not referable to those laws or
put on the ground that defendant was an officer or public
agent of the United States. That was matter of defence and
could not be and was not resorted to by plaintiff to obtain
jurisdiction. Tennessee v. Union & PlantersBank, 152 U.S. 454.
A writ of error to the judgment of a state court stands on
different ground. Such was Teal v. Felton, 12 How. 284, in
which the postmaster relied on an act of Congress in defence,
and the writ was properly granted under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act.
Cases against United States officers as such, or on bonds
given under acts of Congress, or involving interference with

Federal process, or the due faith and credit to be accorded
judgments, are not in point; nor does the case fall within the
ruling that a corporation created by Congress has a right to
invoke the jurisdiction of the Federal courts in respect to any
litigation it may have except as specially restricted. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

doctrine of Pacific Railroad Removal Cases, 115 U. S. 1, cannot
be extended so as to embrace cases like the present. Shoshone
Mining Compahy v. Rutter, 177 U. S. 505, 509.
On the other hand, such cases as Provident Savings Society
v. Ford, 114 U. S. 635; Metcalf v. Watertown, 128 U. S. 586;
Colorado Central Mining Company v. Turck, 150 U. S. 138;
St. Joseph &c. R. R. Co. v. Steele, 167 U. S. 659; Prattv. Paris
Gas Light &c. Company, 168 U. S. 255; Western Union Telegraph Company v. Ann Arbor Railroad Company, 178 U. S.
239; Gableman v. Peoria&c. Railway Company, 179 U. S.335,
show that suits though involving the Constitution or laws of
the United States are not suits arising under the Constitution
or laws where they do not turn on a controversy between the
parties in regard to the operation of the Constitution or laws,
on the facts.
In Price v. Pennsylvania Railroad Company, 113 U. S. 218,
which was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, the question arose whether a railway mail clerk was a
passenger within a certain statute of Pennsylvania, and Mr.
Justice Miller, delivering the opinion, said:
"The plaintiff argues here, and insisted throughout the
progress of the case in the state courts, that by reason of certain laws of the United States as applied to the facts found in
the verdict of the jury, the decedent was a passenger, and the
Supreme Court erred in holding otherwise. These laws are
thus cited in the brief of plaintiff's counsel.
"'Act of March 3, 1865, § 8, 13 Stat. 506, provides that 'For
the purpose of assorting and distributing letters and other
matter in railway post offices, the Postmaster General may,
from time to time, appoint clerks who shall be paid out of the
appropriation for mail transportation.'
"'§ 4000 Rev. Stat. requires that 'Every railway company
carrying the mail shall carry on any train which may rnm over
its road, and without extra charge therefor, all mailable matter directed to be carried thereon, with the person in charge
of the same.'

BANKERS CASUALTY CO. v. MINN. ST. P. &c. RY.
192 U. S.

385

Opinion of the Court.

"We do not think these provisions either aid or govern the
construction of the proviso in the Pennsylvania statute.
"The person thus to be carried with the mail matter, without extra charge, is no more a passenger because he is in charge
of the mail, nor because no other compensation is made for his
transportation, than if he had no such charge, nor does the
fact that he is in the employment of the United States, and
that defendant is bound by contract with the government to
carry him, affect the question. It would be just the same if
the company had contracted with any other person who had
charge of freight on the train to carry him without additional
compensation. The statutes of the United States which authorize this employment and direct this service do not, therefore, make the person so engaged a passenger, or deprive him
of that character, in construing the Pennsylvania statute.
Nor does it give to persons so employed any right as against
the railroad company, which would not belong to any other
person in a similar employment, by others than the United
States.
"We are, therefore, of opinion that no question of Federal
authority was involved in the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania, and the writ of error is. accordingly dismissed."
Although that case was a writ of error to a state court it was
held, in effect, that it was too obvious for controversy that the
acts of Congress referred to -did not give the mail clerk any
particular right as against the railroad company in respect of
negligence and therefore this court declined to entertain the
writ.
We repeat that the rule is settled that a case does not arise
under the Constitution or laws of the United States unless it
appears from plaintiff's own statement, in the outset, that
some title, right, privilege or immunity on which recovery
depends will be defeated by one construction of the Constitution or laws of the United States, or sustained by the opposite
construction. Gold-Washing &c. Company v. Keyes, 96 U. S.
VOL. Cxon-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
192 U. S.

Syllabus.

199; Starin v. New York, 115 U. S. 248; New Orleans v. Benjamin, 153 U. S. 411; Blackburn v. Portland Gold Mining Company, 175 U. S. 571; Shoshone Mining Company v. Rutter, 177
U. S. 505.
Tested by this rule, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
depended entirely on diversity of citizenship and not in any
degree on grounds making the case one arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States.
Writ of error dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

BRUNSWICK

dissented.

TERMINAL COMPANY v.
BANK OF BALTIMORE.

NATIONAL

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
1o. 88. Argued December 9, 10, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1904.

The additional liability of the shareholders of corporations depends on the
terms of the statute creating it, and as such a statute is in derogation of
the common law it cannot be extended beyond the words used.
Where the charter of a state bank provides for additional liability of the
shareholders as sureties to the creditors of the bank for all contracts and
debts to the extent of their stock therein, at the par value thereof, at the
time the debt was created, a shareholder is not liable for a debt created
after he has actually parted with his stock and the transfer has been
regularly entered on the books of the bank.
Where the decisions of the highest court of a State show that it regarded
the construction and application of a statute as open for review if another case arose, its prior determinations of the questions do not necessarily have to be adopted and applied by the Federal courts in cases where
the cause of action arose prior to any of the adjudications by the
state court.

Section 1496 of the Georgia Code of 1882, requiring shareholders of
banks to publish notice of transfer in order to exempt themselves from

