PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. KNIGHT.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Chapman's case was decided November 30, 1896, and on
the third of March, 1897, an act was approved which authorized this court to issue writs of certiorari in cases made final
in that court to bring them up for review and determination.
29 Stat. 692, c. 390. This was carried forward into section 234
of the District Code, and in the meantime we had reviewed
the judgment of the Court of Appeals in certain criminal cases
on certiorari granted under the act. Winston v. United States,
172 U. S. 303; 171 U. S. 690.
The rule that applies to capital cases and infamous crimes
applies to criminal offenses over which the police court of the
District of Columbia exercises jurisdiction, and under that
rule this writ of error must be
Dismissed.

STATE OF NEW YORK ex rel. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. KNIGHT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 91. Argued December 11, 1903.-Decided January 4,1904.
Although a railroad corporation may be largely engaged in interstate commerce it is amenable to state regulation and taxation as to any of its
service which is wholly performed within the State and not as a part of
interstate commerce.
A cab service maintained by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company to take
passengers to and from its terminus in the city of New York, for which
the charges are separate from those of other transportation and wholly
for service within the State of New York is not interstate commerce,
although all persons using the cabs within the company's regulations are
either going to or coming from the State of New Jersey by the company's ferry; such cab service is subject to the control of the State of
New York and the railroad company is not exempt, on account of being
engaged in interstate commerce, from the state privilege tax of carrying
on the business of running cabs for hire between points wholly within the
State.

THIS is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
New York to review a judgment of that court affirming the

OCTOBER TERNI, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

192 U. S.

assessment by the Comptroller of the State of New York of a
certain tax against the relator, The Pennsylvania Railroad
Company. The contention of the plaintiff in error is that the
tax, which is a franchise tax imposed under appropriate statutes of New York upon the company for carrying on the business of running cabs and carriages for hire between points
entirely within the State of New York, is invalid under the
interstate commerce clause of the Constitution of the United
States, article I, section 8, subdivision 3.
The facts are undisputed. In 1897 the company established
a cab stand on its own premises at the Twenty-third street
ferry in the city of New York, and has since maintained a
service of cabs and coaches under special licenses from the city
of New York, whereby they can stand on those premises only.
The sole business done by those cabs and coaches is to bring the
company's passengers to and from its ferry from Twenty-third
street to Jersey City. The charges for this service are separate
from those of the company for further transportation, and no part
of its receipts from the cab service is received as compensation
for any service outside the State of New York. As a separate
business, this cab service has not been profitable to the company, but has been operated at a loss. The validity of this
tax was sustained both by the Supreme Court and the Court
of Appeals of New York. 67 App. Div. 398; 171 N. Y. 354.
Mr. Henry Galbraith Ward, with whom Mr. A. Leo Everett
was on the brief for plaintiff in error:
The taxes in question being laid upon the privilege of doing
business are unconstitutional if the business is interstate commerce: the tax under section 182 is a tax on the privilege of
doing business. People ex rel. Penna.R. R. Co. v. Wemple, 138
N. Y. 1.
In that case which arose before the relator established its
cab business, and when it was engaged solely in taking and
landing passengers and freight at the piers and ferries of New
York City, the court then held that the companywas exclusively

PEifNNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. KNIGHT.
102 U3. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

engaged in interstate commerce, and that as the tax was upon
that business, it was invalid.
The same must of course be true of the tax under section 184.
The taxes cannot therefore be justified as if they were taxes
upon property, or taxes upon a frahchise regarded as part of
the corporation's property, as in the following cases: State
Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284; Delaware Railroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206; Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460;
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530; Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U.* S. 18; Maine v. Grand
Trunk Ry., 142 U. S. 217; Ficklen v. Shelby Co., 145 U. S. 1;
Ashley v. Ryan, 153 U. S. 436; Pittsburgh,etc., Ry. Co. v. Backus,
154 U. S. 421; Postal Telegraph Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688;
Hooper v. California,155 U. S. 648; Erie R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 158 U. S. 431; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Taggart, 163
U. S. 1; Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194; American
Refrigerating Co. v. Hall, 174 U. S. 70.
Under the classification given in Atlantic &c. Telegraph Co.
v. Philadelphia, 190 U. S. 106, this case is in the category of
those in which the tax has been held to be upon the privilege of
engaging in commerce, as GloucesterFerry Co. v. Pennsylvania,
114 U. S. 196; Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489;
Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230; Phila. S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640;
Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129; McCall v. California,136 U. S.
104; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47.
It follows, and indeed it is admitted by the Court of Appeals,
that if the cab business is interstate commerce the taxes are
invalid.
In the operation of its cab service the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company is wholly engaged in interstate commerce.
The court below erred in employing the test of continuous
tickets purchased in another State. Foster v. Davenport, 22
How. 244; Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1; Railway Co. v. Interstate Com. Com., 162 U. S. 184; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Behlmer,
175 U. S. 648; The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 565.

OCTOBER TERM,

1909.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

192 U. S.

The doctrine that where there is not a through contract there
is not interstate commerce, is a radically different one, and was
not involved in either of the cases last cited. Munn v. Illinois,
94 U. S. 113; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Detroit, etc., Ry. Co. v.
Interstate Com. Com., 74 Fed. Rep. 803; 167 U. S. 633, do
not support the decision of the Court of Appeals. As to definition of, and what constitutes interstate commerce, see The
Daniel Ball, supra; Wabash Railway Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S.
557, 565; Norfolk & W. Ry. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114;
Rhoades v. Iowa, 170 U-. S. 412, 426; Caldwell v. North Carolina,
187 U. S. 622, 632; Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1; Diamond
Match Co. v. Ontonagon, 188 U. S. 82.
These decisions show that the court does not employ any
arbitrary tests or distinctions, which may be good for one case
but not for another, but investigates each one upon its facts,
and if the transportation is interstate commerce in point of
fact (though no contract is made for through transportation)
it will be protected from state interference. We see the same
regard for the substance rather than form of the transaction
in Cutting v. Florida Ry. & Nay. Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 641;
Galveston, etc., Ry. v. Armstrong (Tex.), 43 S. W. Rep. 614;
State v. Gulf, Col. & S. F. Ry. Co. (Tex.), 44 S. W. Rep.
542.
How far the plaintiff in error would be subject to state taxation, if it did a local business in addition to carrying interstate
passengers, is a different question, which ought not to embarrass the decision of this case.
The cab service of the Pennsylvania Railroad is wholly
interstate, that of the New York Central is only partly interstate. As to when the business ceases to be interstate so as
to come under state control for taxation, see Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419. See also Pullman v. Adams, 189 U. S.
420, and Osborne v. Florida,164 U. S. 650, where it is held that,
if a company doing interstate business chooses to do local
business as well, it cannot complain if a privilege tax be imposed on it for doing business generally.

13ENNSYLVANIA
192 U. S.

R. R. CO. v. KNIGHT.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John Cunneen, Attorney General of the State of New
.York, for defendant in error:
The cab service maintained by the Pennsylvania Railroad
Company in New York city is not interstate commerce and
the taxes are valid. This case falls -within Coe v. Errol, 116
U. S. 517; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 662; Diamond Match
Co. v. Ontanagon, 188 U. S. 82.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The contention of the company is that this cab service is
merely an extension and therefore a part of its interstate transportation; that it is not carrying on a cab business generally
in the city of New York, but is merely furnishing the service
to those who seek to take over its lines some interstate transportation, thus comnencing the transportation from their
houses instead of from the ferry landing, or like service to
those who have already received such interstate transportation, thus completing the transportation to their places of
destination; that the character of the business remains unchanged, although individuals may avail themselves of this
service who do not intend or have not received any interstate
transportation, for they who thus use the service do so wrongfully and against the wish of the company. In other words,
the company, to promote its general business, seeks only to
complete the continuous transportation of interstate passengers to or from their residences or hotels in New York city
instead of commencing and ending such transportation at the
ferry landing at Twenty-third street; the character of the
service depends not on the action of the passenger, but on the
purpose of the company in providing it, and the omission to
include the charge for the cab service in the charges for other
transportation arises from the practical difficulty of making
such inclusion, and does not alter the fact that such cab service
is a part of the interstate transportation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

To hold the even balance between the Nation and the States
in the exercise of their respective powers and rights, always
difficult, is becoming more so through the growing complexity
of social life, and business conditions. Into many relations
and transactions there enter elements of a national as well
as those of a state character, and to determine in a given case
which elements dominate and assign the relation or transaction to the control of the Nation or of the State, is often most
perplexing. And this case fully illustrates the perplexities.
It is true that a passenger over the Pennsylvania Railroad
to the city of New York does not in one sense fully complete
his journey when he reaches the ferry landing on the New
York side, but only when he is delivered at his temporary or
permanent stopping place in the city. Looking at it from this
standpoint the company's cab service is simply one element
in a continuous interstate transportation, and as such would
be excluded from state and be subject to national control.
The State may not tax for the privilege of doing an interstate
commerce business. Atlantic & Pacific Telegraph Company
v. Philadelphia, 190 U. S. 160. On the other hand, the cab
service is exclusively rendered within the limits of the city.
It is contracted and paid for independently of any contract or
payment for strictly interstate transportation. The party
receiving it owes no legal duty of crossing the state line.
Undoubtedly, a single act of' carriage or transportation
wholly within a State may be part of a continuous interstate
carriage or transportation. Goods shipped from Albany to
Philadelphia may be carried by the New York Central Railroad only within the limits of New York, and yet that service
is an interstate carriage. By reason thereof the Nation regulates that carriage, including the part performed by the New
York company. But it does not follow therefrom that the
New York company is wholly relieved from state regulation
and state taxation, for a part of its work is carriage and transportation begun and ended within the State. So the Pennsylvania company, which is engaged largely in interstate

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. KNIGHT.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

transportation, is amenable to state regulation and state
taxation as to any of its service, which is wholly performed
within the State and not as a part of interstate transportation. Wherever a separation in fact exists between transportation service wholly within the State and that between
the States a like separation may be recognized between the
control of the State and that of the Nation.- Osbornev. Florida,
164 U. S.650; Pullman Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S.420.
As we have seen, the cab service is rendered wholly within
the State and has no contractual or necessary relation to
interstate transportation. It is either preliminary or subsequent thereto. It is independently contracted for, and not
necessarily connected therewith. But when service is wholly
within a State, it is presumably subject to state control. The
burden is on him who asserts that, though actually within,
it is legally outside the State; and unless the interstate character is established, locality determines the question of jurisdiction. Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.517, though not in all respects
similar, is very closely in point. In that case spruce logs had
been drawn down from Wentworth's Location in New Hampshire, and placed in Clear Stream, also in New Hampshire,
to be from thence floated down the Androscoggin River to
the State of Maine, there to be manufactured and sold. After
they had thus been drawn down and placed in Clear Stream,
a tax was imposed upon them by the State of New Hampshire.
The validity of that tax was challenged on the ground that the
logs were in process of transportation from Wentworth's Location in New Hampshire to the State of Maine. It was sustained
by the Supreme Court of New Hampshire, and also by this
court. In the course of the opinion Mr. Justice Bradley
made these pertinent observations (p. 528):
"It is true, it was said in the case of The Daniel Ball, 10
Wall. 557, 565: 'Whenever a commodity has begun to move
as an article of trade from one State to another, commerce in
that commodity between the States has commenced.' But
this movement does not begin until the articles have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

shipped or started for transportation from the one State to
the other. The carrying of them in carts or other vehicles, or
even floating them, to the depot where the journey is to commence is no part of that journey. That is all preliminary
work, performed for the purpose of putting the property in a
state of preparation ancd readiness for transportation. Until
actually launched on its way to another State, or committed
to a common carrier for transportation to such State, its destination is not fixed and certain. It may be sold or otherwise
disposed of within the State, and never put in course of transportation out of the State. Carrying it from the farm, or the
forest, to the depot, is only an interior movement of the property, entirely within the State, for the purpose, it is true, but
only for the purpose, of putting it into a course of exportation;
it is no part of the exportation itself. Until shipped or started
on its final journey out of the State its exportation is a matter
altogether in fieri, and not at all a fixed and certain thing."
Diamond Match Company v. Ontonagon, 188 U. S.82; Detroit
&c. Railway Company v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 21
C. C. A. 103; 43 U. S. App. 308; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Detroit &c. Railway Company, 167 U. S. 633.
As shown in the opinion from which we have just quoted,
many things have more or less close relation to interstate
commerce, which are not properly to be regarded as a part
of it. If the cab which carries the passengers from the hotel
to the ferry landing is engaged in interstate transportation, why
is not 'the porter who carries the traveler's trunk from his
room to the carriage also so engaged ? If the cab service is
interstate transportation, are the drivers of the cabs and the
dealers who supply hay and grain for the horses also engaged
ininterstate commerce? And where will the limit be placed?
We are of opinion that the cab service is an independent
local service, preliminary or subsequent to any interstate
transportation, and therefore the judgment of the Supreme
is
Court of the State of New York was correct, and it Affirmed.

