STEINMETZ v. ALLEN.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the defendant to violate any law or to do any wrongful act.
This, we think, clearly takes the case out of the principle of
those above cited, and the measure of damages must, therefore,
be the value of the timber at the time and at the place where
it was cut.
The judgment must be reversed, and the case remanded to
the Circuit Court for the District of Idaho, Southern Division,
with directions to enter judgment in favor of the United States
for the amount of the timber as stated in the answer, and for
its value at the rate of $1.50 per thousand feet.
So ordered.

UNITED STATES ex rel. STEINMETZ v. ALLEN.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 383. Argued January 12,13, 1904.I-Decided February 23, 1904.
A rule of practice in the Patent Office when established by the Commissioner

of Patents under section 483, Rev. Stat., constitutes, in part, the powers
of the primary examiner and the Commissioner, and becomes to those
officers an authority under the United States, and this court has jurisdiction under section 8 of the act of February 9, 1893, to review a final judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia where the
plaintiff in error assails the validity of such a rule.
Section 4886, Rev. Stat., gives a right, which is a substantial one, to join
inventions which are related to each other in one patent and this right
cannot be denied by a hard and fixed rule which prevents such joinder in
all cases. Such a rule is not the exercise of discretion but a determination not to hear.
Rule 41 of Practice in the Patent Office, in so far as it requires a division
between claims for a process and claims for an apparatus if they are related and dependent inventions, is invalid.
Mandamus is the proper remedy where the Commissioner of Patents has refused to require the primary examiner to forward an appeal to the board
of examiners in chief to review the ruling of the primary examiner requiring the petitioner to cancel certain of the claims in his alplication.

THIS is a petition in mandamus filed in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia to compel the Commissioner of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

Patents to require the primary examiner to forward an appeal,
prayed by the petitioner, to the board of examiners-in-chief,
to review the ruling of the primary examiner requiring petitioner to cancel certain of his claims in his application for
motor meters.
The Supreme Court dismissed the petition, and its action
was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. This writ of error was
then sued out.
The decision of the primary examiner was based upon rule 41
of practice in the Patent Office, and the case involves the
validity of the rule under the patent laws.
The petitioner filed an application in the Patent Office,
November 21, 1896, for a patent for "certain new and useful
improvements in motor meters." He expressed his invention
in thirteen claims. They are inserted in the margin.'
1. The herein-described method of measuring alternating electric currents, which consists in setting up or establishing a shifting field of magnetism from three intersecting lines or axes of magnetization and adapted
to actuate a rotatable armature in a motor meter arranged within the
energizing coils producing said lines of magnetization.
2. The herein-described method of actuating an alternating-current motor
meter, which consists in setting up or establishing a shifting field of magnetism from three intersecting lines or axes of magnetization and adapted
to actuate a rotatable armature arranged within the energizing coils producing said lines of magnetization.
3. The herein-described method of actuating a single-phase alternatingcurrent motor meter, which consists in setting up or establishing a shifting
field of magnetism from three intersecting lines or axes of magnetization
and adapted to actuate a rotatable armature arranged within the energizing
coils producing said lines of magnetization.
4. The herein-described method of actuating an alternating-current motor
meter, which consists in setting up or establishing a shifting field of magnetism by means of magneto-motive forces acting along three intersecting
lines and subjecting an armature to the inductive action of said field.
5. The herein-described method of actuating an alternating-current motor
meter, which consists in setting up or establishing a shifting field of magnetism by means of magneto-motive forces being proportional to the current
and the other two to the electro-motive force, and subjecting an armature
to the inductive action of said field.
6. The herein-described method of actuating an alternating-current motor
meter which consists in setting up or establishing a shifting field of mag-

STEINMETZ v. ALLEN.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The first six -were held by the primary examiner to be claims
for a process; the balance of the claims to be for an apparatus;
and on the fifteenth of May, 1900, ordered that the latter, that
is, claims 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13, be cancelled from the application. In other words, he required a division between the process claims and the apparatus claims in accordance with rule 41.
That rule is as follows:
netism by means of magneto-motive forces acting along three intersecting
lines, one magneto-motive force being proportional to the current and the
other two to the electro-motive force, the several magneto-motive forces
being so proportioned and related to each other that the resultant of the
last two is displaced in phase from the first by the complement of the angle
of lag, and subjecting an armature to the inductive action of said field.
7. In a Watt meter for alternating electric currents, means for producing
a magnetic flux proportional to the current and varying in phase therewith,
means for producing a second magnetic flux proportional to the electromotive force and lagging in phase behind the same, and means for producing
an auxiliary flux along a line at an angle to said second flux and of such
magnitude and phase that the resultant of the two last-mentioned fluxes will
lag behind the first by the complement of the angle of lag.
8. The combination in an electro motor of a field-magnet system and
means for inducing therein magnetic fluxes of three phases, one a flux due
to a series coil and proportional to the current, a second flux due to a shunt
potential coil and lagging behind the electro-motor force, and a third flux
lagging behind said second flux and having a fixed angular relation thereto
such that the resultant of the second and third fluxes is dephased by substantially the complement of the angle of lag from the flux due to the series
coil.
9. The combination in a recording electric meter of a field-magnet system
acting on the armature and having a plurality of intersecting magnetic axes,
means for inducing along one of said magnetic axes a flux proportional to
the current and varying in phase therewith, and means for inducing along
the other magnetic axes a plurality of other fluxes dependent upon the
potential of the metered circuit, which lag behind the electro-motive force
by different amounts and act upon the armature at different points, said
fluxes being so proportioned in value and phase that their joint action upon
the armature will enable the meter to register the true energy .consumed
in an alternating-current circuit without being substantially affected by
changes of phase relation.
10. In a Watt meter for alternating currents, the combination of a fieldmagnet system having three intersecting magnetic axes, means for producing
along one of said axes a magnetic flux proportional to the current and varying in phase therewith, means for producing along another of said axes an

VOL. oxcii-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

"41. Two or more independent inventions cannot be claimed
in one application; but where several distinct inventions are
dependent upon each other and mutually contribute to produce
a single result, they may be claimed in one application.
"Claims for a machine and its product must be presented
in separate applications.
"Claims for a machine and the process in the performance of
alternating flux proportional to the electro-motive force and lagging behind
the same, and means for producing along the third axis an auxiliary magnetic flux also proportional to the electro-motive force, of such a magnitude
and phase that the joint action of the several fluxes upon the armature will
enable the meter to register the true energy consumed in an alternatingcurrent circuit without being substantially affected by changes of phase
relation.
11. In a meter for alternating currents, the combination of a field-magnet
system having three intersecting magnetic axes, means for producing along
one of said axes a magnetic flux proportional to the current and varying in
phase therewith, means for producing along another of said axes an alternating flux proportional to the electro-motive force and lagging behind the
same, and means for producing along the third axis an auxiliary magnetic
flux also proportional to the electro-motive force and of such magnitude and
phase that the joint action of the two potential fluxes upon the armature
will produce a torque sufficient to overcome the static friction of the meter.
12. In a single-phase alternating current meter, the combination of a fieldmagnet system having three intersecting magnetic axes, a field coil in which
the current phase varies as the conditions of the circuit change, producing
a magnetization along one magnetic axis, a potential coil producing a magnetization along another magnetic axis, a reactance device in series with said
potential coil for lagging the current behind the electro-motive force and a
second potential coil depending for its current upon the first potential coil,
producing a magnetization along the third magnetic axis; the two potential
coils conveying currents which differ in phase from each other, and each
generating a flux which acts upon the armature at a point removed from
the point at which the flux due to the other potential coil acts upon the
armature.
13. In an electric meter, the combination of a multipolar field-magnet
structure having three magnetic axes, current coils mounted upon some of
the field poles and producing a magnetization along one of said magnetic
axes, potential coils mounted upon other field poles and producing a magnetization along another one of said magnetic axes, and other potential coils
mounted upon a portion only of the last-named field poles, or some of them,
and producing a magnetization along the third magnetic axis, and an armature acted upon by the flux induced by the field coils.

STEINMETZ v. ALLEN.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

which the machine is used must be presented in separate applications.
"Claims for a process and its product may be presented in
the same application."
Petitioner persisted in his application as filed, and the
primary examiner repeated his order for a division of the
claims; Petitioner regarded such order as "a second final
rejection" of his claims to the apparatus, and appealed therefrom to the board of examiners-in-chief. The primary examiner refused to answer the appeal and to forward the same with
his answer thereto and the statements required by the rules of
the Patent Office. Thereafter, on the twentieth of August, 1900,
petitioner petitioned the Commissioner of Patents to direct the
primary examiner to forward said appeal, which petition was
denied. It was repeated to the present Commissioner, defendant in error, and by him denied on the seventh of February,
1902.
These facts constitute petitioner's claim to relief.
The answer of the respondent asserts the validity of rule 41,
justifies the action of the Patent Office, alleges that petitioner
is estopped from contesting the orders of the primary examiner,
and also alleges that those orders "did not involve the rejection
of any claim or an action upon the merits of any claim made
by the relator," as provided in rule 13, and that "the statutes
and rule 133 of the rules of practice do not provide for an appeal
to the examiners-in-chief from an examiner's requirement for
division, and the examiners-in-chief have no jurisdiction to
pass upon the question whether or not division should be
required."
The answer presents also the following facts: Prior to making
the order of May 15, 1900, to wit, on October 9, 1899, the
primary examiner wrote a letter to petitioner regarding the
division of the process claims and the apparatus claims, in
accordance with rule 41, before further action would be given
upon the merits of the case.
Petitioner replied December 15, 1899, requesting "that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

requirement for division be waived for the present," in order
that his process claims be placed in interference with the
claims of a patent to one Duncan. To this request the examiner answered:
"Pending the determination of the interference applicant
may retain the method and apparatus claims in this case, but
the acceptance of an interference on one of the method claims
will be held by the office to be an election of the prosecution
of the method claims, and further prosecution of the apparatus
claims in this application will not be permitted."
Petitioner replied January 19, 1900, urging that the interference be declared, and on February 7, 1900, it was declared
and decided in favor of petitioner. After the decision the
examiner wrote the letter of May 15, 1900. These proceedings, respondent contends, constitute an estoppel.
The first ruling of the Commissioner of Patents upon the
petition to require the primary examiner to respond to petitioner's appeal was as follows:
"Where applicant does not care to comply with the examiner's requirements in a matter of division such as is here
involved, it has been the practice for the past thirty years to
treat the question, not as one of merits and appealable to the
examiners-in-chief, but as a proper matter for petition to the
Commissioner. I see no reason for overturning this practice.
This petition is denied."
The second order of the Commissioner, respondent, after
reciting certain of the facts, concluded as follows:
"The requirement for division is purely a matter of form,
not involving the merits of the claims, since the claims may be,
and in the present case are, regarded as allowable. The examiner has not refused to grant a patent to this applicant upon
any of the claims presented, but has merely required that they
be included in two patents instead of one. It is a question of
procedure or of the manner of securing the protection which
is in controversy and not the right of the applicant to a patent
upon any of the claims presented.

STEINMETZ v. ALLEN.
192 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"The examiner was right in taking the position that the
question involved is not appealable to the examiners-in-chief,
and although it is a general rule of law that the appellate
tribunal is the one to determine whether or not.it has jurisdiction when an appeal is taken to it, it is not considered neeessary in the office practice to follow that practice strictly,
since the Commissioner is the head of the office and has the
final decision upon all questions arising within it and may
settle questions of this kind upon direct petition. The examiner's decision upon the question whether or not an appeal to
the examiners-in-chief is regular and proper is not final, since
it may be reviewed by the Commissioner upon petition, but
he has authority to pass upon that question in the first instance.
"The petition is denied."
Mr. Frederic H. Betts and Mr. Melville Church for plaintiff
inerror:
The fundamental and underlying question is whether an
applicant for a method or process patent has the right to
demand protection, in that patent, of all patentable inventions
he is compelled to disclose in setting forth his new method or
process?
So strongly does this question appeal to our inherent sense
of justice and fair play, that we are inclined, at once, to an
affirmative answer to it, especially in view of the known favor
with which the inventor has always been regarded by the laws
and courts of our country.
As to the indivisibilty of patents for process and product,
see Powder Company v. Powder Works, 98 U. S. 126. There
is nothing in the statutes compelling division of process and
apparatus. § 4886, Rev. Stat. See Merrill v. Yeomans, 94
U. S.568; The Telephone Case, 126 U. S.1; Hoyt v. Home, 145
U. S.302; The Fire Extinguisher Case, 21 Fed. Rep. 40, and
cases cited p. 440.
In the Patent Office, different Commissioners have ranged

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

192 U. S.

themselves on opposite sides of this question of the necessity
of division between process and apparatus.
Division according to the so-called statutory requirement
has been insisted upon by Commissioners Butterworth, Hall
and Duell, and the contrary view has been vigorously maintained by Commissioners Montgomery, Mitchell and Simonds.
Commissioner Butterworth gave expression to his views in the
Blythe Case, 1885, C. D. 82; Commissioner Hall in Herr's Case,
1887, C. D. 105; Commissioner Montgomery in Young's Case,
1885, C. D. 108; Commissioner Mitchell in Lord's Case, 1890,
C. D. 16; Commissioner Simonds in Curtis' Case, 1891, C. D.
206, and in Kerr's Case, 1892, C. D. 61; and Commissioner Duell
in Boucher's Case, 1899, C. D. 133.
As to Boucher's case, however, see James v. Campbell, 104
U. S. 356, where an apparatus patent was reissued into a process patent and the latter was declared invalid; Powder Co. v.
Powder Works, 98 U. S. 136, where a process patent was reissued into a product patent and the latter was declared invalid;
Miller v. Brass Co., 104 U. S. 350; Parker & Whipple Co. v.
Yale Clock Co., 123 U. S.87, Hoskins v. Fisher, 125 U. S. 217,
Yale Lock Co. v. James, 125 U. S. 447, and many subsequent
cases where machines or apparatus patents, with narrow
claims, were reissued into machines or apparatus patents,
with broad claims, and the latter were declared invalid. Hogg
v. Emerson, 6 How. 483, distinguished, and see Hogg v. Emerson, 11 How. 587.
The tendency on the part of the Patent Office to require
too much subdivision of invention is strongly condemned in
Johns Mfg. Co. v. Robertson, 89 Fed. Rep. 506.
There are many evils that grow out of requiring an inventor
to take two distinct patents, one for his process and the other
for his machine for carrying that process into effect.
Amongst others it gives no opportunity to the inventor to
claim, in a single patent, an invention, in both aspects, where
doubt exists, whether the real invention is a process or a machine. That question arose in Boyden v. Westinghouse, 170

STEINMETZ v. ALLEN.
192 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

U. S. 537. The cost is increased to the inventor too by
the payment of double fees.
The protection of the inventor has always been a matter
of special solicitude on the part of Congress, and Congress
never intended that the cost of a patent should depend upon
the whims of commissioners of patents.
When Congress fixes the cost of a patent the commissioner
has, plainly, no authority to add a dollar thereto. No usage
in regard to making an excess charge can legalize it, and
the excess can be recovered by suit. Ogden v. Maxwell, 3
Blatch. 319; S.C., Fed. Cas. No. 10,458; Swift & Courtney Co.
v. United States, 111 U. S. 22.
The Commissioner's power to make mere regulations cannot
be used as a cloak for requiring the division and separate patenting of the parts of a really unitary and indivisible invention,
nor for exacting a double set of fees from an applicant.
In no adjudicated case is the so-called discretionary power
of the Commissioner, as to requiring division of applications
for original patents, directly in judgment. The cases in respondent's brief below, Bennett v. Fowler, 8 Wall. 445, and
McKay v. Dibert, 19 0. G. 131; 5 C. D. 1881, 238, do not reach
to the point.
The rule is arbitrary, by requiring division without any
determination whatever of the question of right to the claims.
No discretion has been exercised in dealing with the application and determining whether it is of such a character that its
process and apparatus are or are not dependent, or so disunited as to require division. The examiner has declined to
look into the application. He held himself bound by a hard
and fast rule.
The examiners, the examiners-in-chief, and the Commissioner, acting as an appellate tribunal, are all judicial officers,
Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50; United States v. Duell, 172
U. S. 576, and the duty of determining whether an application
contains claims for inventions which "are dependent upon
each other and mutually contribute to produce a single result,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

192 U. S.

or even of deciding whether the claims, in a given case, are all
for a process or all .for a machine, or are some for a process and
some for a machine, a 'question that bothered this court in
Boyden v. Westinghouse, 170 U. S. 537, is clearly a judicial
duty, involving, oftentimes, the nicest application of the rules
for the interpretation of patents.
The inventor has an inherent right to a single patent covering all he is compelled to disclose as the condition of the
grant to him of any protection. There being no statutory
authority to require him to divide up his invention and take
multiple patents for its parts, whenever an application for
patent is a second time refused by the primary examiner because it contains claims to a process that can only be practiced
by the use of a certain machine and also claims to the machine
for practicing such process, the applicant is entitled to an
appeal from the examiner's ruling, to all the statutory appellate tribunals, in turn, and upon a favorable decision of
any of such tribunals, is entitled to have a patent issued to
him.
The relator's right of appeal has accrued under the statute.

§482.
The decision of the primary examiner complained of was
adverse enough. It certainly was not favorable. It barred,
and still bars, the progress of the application.
It has been "rejected" in the sense in which that word is
used in the section.
In the interpretation of statutes it is a general rule that
common words are to be given their plain, ordinary, popular
meaning. Tested by this rule we find the word "reject"
(rejectus, to throw back) to be universally used as the equivalent of "refuse," especially when used to indicate a denial
of a petition or request. As to effect of "refusal," see Gaudy
v. Marble, 122 U. S. 432; Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50.
If rule 133, regulating appeals, adds any conditions of appeal
not found in the statute it is null and void. §§ 482, 4909,
Rev. Stat.

STEINMETZ v. ALLEN.
192 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Rejections for or without reason, and rejections upon the
merits of the invention or otherwise, are equally within their
purview, and the Commissioner, by rule, can add nothing to
nor subtract anything from the statutory requirements, to the
prejudice of an applicant. Com'r of Patentsv. Whitely, 4 Wall.
552; Morrill v. Jones, 106 U. S. 466; Tracy v. Swartwout, 10
Pet. 80; Kurtz v. Moffit, 115 U. S. 487; Teal v. Fulton, 12
How. 285; Anchor v. How, 50 Fed. Rep. 367; 6 Op. Atty.
Gen. 38.
The refusal or rejection of an application, or of any of the
claims thereof, under a rule of practice, is not different, in kind,
from a refusal or a rejection under the statute itself, and is
appealable.
The rules of the office made pursuant to statutory authority, and not inconsistent with law, have all the force and authority of the statute itself, and are, so long as they remain
unrepealed, as binding upon the office as they are upon applicants. United States v. Eliason, 16 Pet. 291; Gratiot v. United
States, 4 How. 80; In re Hirsch, 74 Fed. Rep. 931; Wilkins v.
United States (C. C. A.), 96 Fed. Rep. 837; James v. Germania
Iron Co., 107 Fed. Rep. 597, 609; Dist. of Col. v. Roth, 18 App.
D. C. 547; Rio Grande IrrigationCo. v. Gildersleeve, 174 U. S.
603.
Mandamus is the proper remedy.
Any interference with a right of appeal is never tolerated
and mandamus is the proper remedy to remove any obstruction to the exercise of the right. United States v. Gomez, 3
Wall. 752; Ex parte Zellner, 9 Wall. 244; Vigo's Case, 21 Wall.
648; Ex parte Jordan, 94 U. S. 248; Ex parte Cutting, 94 U. S.
14; Ex parte South, etc., R. R. Co., 95 U. S. 221; Com. of Patents
v. Whitely, 4 Wall. 522.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General McReynolds, with whom
Mr. John M. Coit was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The validity of an authority exercised under the United
States is not here drawn in question and this court has no

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

192 U. S.

jurisdiction. Balt. & Pot. R. R. Co. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S.
211, 226; United States v. Lynch, 137 U. S. 280, 285; South
Carolina v. Seymour, 153 U. S. 353, 360; Linford v. Ellison,
155 U. S. 503.
The action of the Court of Appeals was right on the merits.
The Commissioner decided, upon petition to him, the matter
which had been ruled upon by the primary examiner. Mandamus will not lie to compel him now to refer it to a lower
tribunal in his own office.
It is fundamental that mandamus will not issue against a
public officer except to compel the performance of some plain,
clear, ministerial duty, and will not issue to control his discretion. Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Pet. 515; Mississippi v.
Johnson, 4 Wall. 475; Redfield v. Windom, 137 U. S. 636;
Dunlap v. Black, 138 U. S. 636.
Where it is the duty of the officer to pass upon a question,
mandamus may be used to compel him to decide, but not to
compel him to decide in any particular way, nor to set aside
a ruling already made.
The Commissioner of Patents is not simply an appellate
tribunal, he has power to refuse a patent. Whitely Case, 4
Wall. 522; Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50.
No appeal from the ruling of the primary examiner to the
examiners-in-chief was permissible in any view of the case.
Bostwick v. Brinkerhoff, 106 U. S. 3; Butterworth v. Hoe, 112
U. S. 50.
The decision of the examiner did not reach the merits.
Division is not required upon the ground that the patent
covering two inventions, if granted, would be declared invalid.
No question as to validity is involved, since the courts have
never declared a patent invalid because of the joinder of distinct inventions. Division, therefore, involves no question
of merits. Ex parte Yale, C. D. 1869, 110; Bennett v. Fowler,
8 Wall. 445; Ex parte Medford, C. D. 1883, 95; 0. G.
881.
These cases announce the construction of the law which

STEINMETZ v. ALLEN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

has always been followed. Bx parte Fefel, 57 0. G. 409; Ex
parte Everson, 68 0. G. 1381; Ex parts Burgess, 64 0. G. 1759;
Ex parte Demeny, 64 0. G. 1649.
Substantial rights are not affected and to have a right of
appeal the examiner's action must affect inventor's interests
adversely and not merely embarrass a stranger.
Process and apparatus are independent. Cochranev. Deemer,
94 U. S. 780, 788; Corning v. Burden, 15 How. 252,268; James
v. Campbell, 104 U. S. 356, 376; Heald v. Rice, 104 U. S. 736,
753; Tilghman v. Proctor, 102 U. S. 702, 728; Rubber Co. v.
Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788, 796; Ex parte Lord, 50 0. G. 987; C. D.
1890, 16.
This has been the long established practice of the Patent
Office and as such is entitled to great weight. Bate Refrigerating
Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1, 34. There have been differences
of opinion as to when division should be required, some holding
that division should always be required between process and
apparatus, Ex parte Blythe, 30 0. G. 1321; C. D. 1885, 82; lx
parte Herr, 41 0. G. 463; C. D. 1887, 105; Ex parts Boucher, 88
0. G. 545; and Ex parte Frasch,91 0. G. 459, and others holding
the question depended upon the circumstances of each case.
There has never been a difference of opinion, however, upon
the question whether division affects the merits and is an
appealable matter. Bx parte Chambers, 51 0. G. 1943; C. D.
1890, 101; Ex parte Billingrodt,54 MSS. Dec. 474, distinguished
by Ex parte lverson, Ex parte Demery, supra.
AIR. JUSTICE McKENNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

1. The jurisdiction of this court to review the judgment of
the Court of Appeals is questioned. There is no money in
dispute nor anything to which a pecuniary value has been given.
Jurisdiction is claimed under the clause of section 8 of the act
of February 9, 1893, which gives an appeal to this court from
the final judgment or decree of the Court of Appeals in cases in

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

which there is drawn in question the validity of "an authority
exercised under the United States."
By section 483 of the Revised Statutes, the Commissioner of
Patents, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior,
is empowered to establish from time to time regulations not
inconsistent with law, for the conduct of proceedings in the
Patent Office. The Commissioner of Patents, exercising the
power conferred, established, among other rules of practice,
rule 41. It thereby became a rule of procedure and constituted, in part, the powers of the primary examiner and Commissioner. In other words, it became an authority to those
officers, and, necessarily, an authority "under the United
States." Its validity was and is assailed by the plaintiff in
error. We think, therefore, we have jurisdiction, and the
motion to dismiss is denied.
2. The issue is well defined between the parties, both as to
the right and remedy, in the Patent Office. As to right, petitioner contends that a union by an inventor of process and
apparatus claims, which are essentially the same invention, is
given by the patent laws, and that rule 41, so far as it takes
that right away, is repugnant to those laws and invalid. As
to remedy, that the decision of the primary examiner constituted a final decision upon the case, and petitioner was
entitled to an appeal under the patent laws to the board of
examiners-in-chief. The latter proposition depends upon the
first. Assuming the right in an inventor as expressed in the
first proposition, the primary examiner denied the right. True,
a distinction can be made between his ruling and one on the
merits, if we regard the merits to mean invention, novelty or
the like. But in what situation would an applicant for a
patent be? If he yield to the rule he gives up his right of
joinder. If he does not yield he will not be heard at all, and
may subsequently be regarded as having abandoned his application. Section 4894, Rev. Stat. A ruling having such effect
must be considered as final and appealable. Whether, however, to the examiners-in-chief or to the Commissioner, and

STEINMETZ v. ALLEN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from the latter to the courts, we may postpone answering until
we have considered the right of an inventor to join process and
apparatus claims in one application.
Section 4886 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
provides as follows:
"Any person who has invented or discovered any new and
useful art, machine, manufacture or composition of matter,
or any new and useful improvement thereof, not known or
used by others in this country, and not patented or described
in any printed publication in this or any foreign country, before
his invention or discovery thereof, and not in public use or on
sale in this country for more than two years prior to his application, unless the same is proved to have been abandoned, may,
upon payment of the fees required by law, and other due proceedings had, obtain a patent therefor."
There is nothing in the language of the section which necessarily precludes the joinder of two or more inventions in the
same application. But the section does distinguish-inventions
into arts (processes), machines, manufactures and compositions of matter, and the earliest construction of the law denied
the right of joinder. An exception, however, came to be made
in cases of dependent and related inventions.
In Hogg v. Emerson, 6 How. 437, it was said:
"The next objection is, that this description in the letters
thus considered covers more than one patent and is therefore
void.
"There seems to have been no good reason at first, unless it
be a fiscal one on the part of the government when issuing
patents, why more than one in favor of the same inventor
should not be embraced in one instrument, like more than one
tract of land in one deed or patent for land. Phill. Pat. 217.
"Each could be set out in separate articles or paragraphs,
as different counts for different matters in libels in admiralty
or declarations at common law, and the specifications could
be made distinct for each and equally clear.
"But to obtain more revenue, the public officers have gen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

erally declined to issue letters for more than one patent described in them. Renouard, 293; Phil. Pat. 218. The courts
have been disposed to acquiesce in the practice, as conducive
to clearness and certainty. And if letters issue otherwise
inadvertently to hold them, as a general rule, null. But it is
a well established exception that patents may be united, if
two or more, included in one set of letters, relate to a like subject, or are in their nature or operation connected together.
Phil. Pat. 218, 219; Barret v. Hall, 1 Mason, 447; Moody v.
Fiske, 2 Mason, 112; Wyeth et al. v. Stone et al., 1 Story, 273."
This language would seem to imply that not the statute but
the practice of the Patent Office required separate applications
for inventions, but the cases cited were explicit of the meaning
of the statute. Mr. Justice Story, in Wyeth v. Stone, said:
"For, if different inventions might be joined in the same
patent for entirely different purposes and objects, the patentee
would be at liberty to join as many as he might choose, at his
own mere pleasure, in one patent, which seems to be inconsistent with the language of the patent acts, which speak of
the thing patented, and not of the things patented, and of a
patent for invention, and not of a patent for inventions; and
they direct a specific sum to be paid for each patent."
But he confined the requirement to independent inventions,
and his illustrations indicated that he meant by independent
inventions not those which, though distinct, were "for the
same common purpose and auxiliary to the same common end."
Hogg v. Emerson came to this court again, and is reported in
11 How. 587. Of one of the objections to the patent the court
said:
"It is that the improvement thus described is for more than
one invention, and that one set of letters patent for more than
one invention is not tolerated by law.
"But grant that such is the result when two or more inventions are entirely separate and independent, though this is
doubtful on principle, yet it is well settled in the cases formerly
cited, that a patent for more than one invention is not void if

STEINMETZ v. ALLEN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

they are connected in their design and operation. This last
is clearly the case here."
Many other cases are to the same effect.
Can it be said that a process and an apparatus are inevitably
so independent as never to be "connected in their design and
operation?" They may be completely independent. Cochrane
v. Deener, 94 U. S. 780. But they may be related. They may
approach each other so nearly that it will be difficult to distinguish the process from the function of the apparatus. In
such case the apparatus would be the dominant thing. But
the dominance may be reversed and the process carry an
exclusive right, no matter what apparatus may be devised
to perform it. There is an illustration in the Telephone Cases,
126 U. S. 1. The claim passed upon in those cases was as
follows:
"The method of, and apparatus for, transmitting vocal or
other sounds telegraphically, as herein described, by causing
electrical undulations, similar in form to the vibrations of the
air accompanying the said vocal or other sounds, substantially
as set forth."
The claim was held to refer to the art described, and the
means of making it useful. The court observed:
"Other inventors may compete with him for the ways of
giving effect to the discovery, but the new art he has found
will belong to him and those claiming under him during the
life of his patent."
A distinction between the process and the means employed
for using it was rejognized. It was said:
"The patent for the art does not necessarily involve a patent
for the particular means employed for using it. Indeed, the
mention of any means, in the specification or descriptive portion of the patent, is only necessary to show that the art can
be used; for it is only useful arts-arts which may be used to
advantage-that can be made the subject of a patent."
The patent was sustained. It was not attacked because it
embraced independent inventions. The fact is not without

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

force. Considering the ability of counsel engaged and the
division of the court in opinion, it is a proper inference that no
tenable objection to the patent was overlooked.
It is said by Robinson, in his work on patents, that "special
rules which govern the joinder of arts or processes with each
other or with related inventions of a different class, are more
stringent in the Patent Office than in the courts." (Section 473,
vol. 11, Robinson on Patents.) And the author deduces the
conclusion that under the rules of the Patent Office a process
cannot be "joined with the apparatus that performs it, nor
either of these with the product in which they result, unless
they are to such an extent inseparable that the existence of
some one of them is dependent upon that of the others." But
rule 41 precludes even this.
If there is a divergence of views between the courts and the
Patent Office and the divergence proceeds from a different
interpretation of the statute, the views of the courts ought to
prevail. If the courts, however, have only recognized and
enforced the exercise of a discretion of the Patent Office, the
question occurs, what is the extent of such discretion and can
it be expressed and fixed in an inflexible rule such as rule 41?
In Bennet v. Fowler, 8 Wall. 445, a discretion in the Patent
Office was recognized. The question arose upon the validity
of two reissued patents for improvements, which "had been
embraced in one, in the original patent." The court said:
"It may be, that if the improvements set forth in both
specifications had been incorporated into one patent, the
patentee taking care to protect himself as to all his improvements by proper and several claims, it would have been sufficient. It is difficult, perhaps impossible, to lay down any
general rule by which to determine when a given invention or
improvements shall be embraced in one, two, or more patents.
Some discretion must necessarily be left on this subject to the
head of the Patent Office. It is often a nice and perplexing
question."
Some discretion is not an unlimited discretion, and if the

STEINMETZ v. ALLEN.
192 U. S.

*

Opinion of the Court.

discretion be not unlimited it is reviewable. In other words,
the statute gives the right to join inventions in one application
in cases where the inventions are related, and it cannot be
denied by a hard and fixed rule which prevents such joinder
in all cases. Such a rule is not the exercise of discretion; it
is a determination not to hear. No inventor can reach the
point of invoking the discretion of the Patent Office. He is
notified in advance that he will not be heard, no matter what
he might be able to show. His right is denied, therefore, not
regulated. Such is the necessary effect of rule 41, as amended.
Without that rule the action of the Patent Office can be
accommodated to the character of inventions, and discretion
can be exercised, and when exercised, we may say in passing,
except in cases of clear abuse, the courts will not review it.
But the rule as amended, as we have said, precludes the exercise of any judgment and compels the separation of claims for
a process and claims for its apparatus, however related or
connected they may be. And the right denied is substantial.
Counsel for petitioner have explained that right by the embarrassments caused by its denial, one of which is that, by
disclosing the apparatus in his application for the process, he
might lose the right to and a patent for the apparatus, and to
sustain that view James v. Campbell, 104 U. S. 356, is cited.
We are not prepared to admit such consequences nor that
James v. Campbell so decides. If the classification of the
statute makes a distinction between the different kinds of
inventions-between a process and an apparatus-and requires or permits a separate application for each, it would
seem to follow irresistibly that an application and patent for
one would not preclude an application and patent for the
other, and the order of the application could not affect the
right which the law confers. James v. Campbell was a case of
reissued patent, and by express provision of the statute as to
reissued patents no new matter can be introduced in them.
In other words, the reissue is to perfect, not to enlarge, the
prior patent. Whether the principle of the case applies to
VOL. cxcII-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

. 192 U. S.

related as well as to independent inventions is not clear from
its language. The court said:
"Where a new process produces a new substance, the invention of the process is the same as the invention of the substance,
and a patent for the one may be reissued so as to include both,
as was done in the case of Goodyear's vulcanized rubber patent.
But a process, and a machine for applying the process, are not
necessarily one and the same invention."
The facts of the case did not call for a more definite ruling.
The original patent was for a device for postmarking and cancelling postage stamps by a single blow. The reissued patent
claimed the act of marking and cancellation, and it was observed by the court:
"The process or act of making a postmark and cancelling a
postage stamp by a single blow or operation, as a subject of
invention, is a totally different thing in the patent law from a
stamp constructed for performing that process."
But without attempting to enlarge the case and extend it to
more intimately related inventions, it is enough now to say
that there is nothing in the case which decides that if the
process had been claimed in an independent application it
(the process) would have been adjudged to have been dedicated
to the public by the other patent. There is language indicating
the contrary. It was said:
"If he (the patentee) was the author of any other invention
than that which he specifically describes and claims, though
he might have asked to have it patented at the same time, and
in the same patent, yet if he has not done so, and afterwards
desires to secure it, he is bound to make a new and distinct
application for that purpose, and make it the subject of a new
and different patent."
The case, however, indicates what embarrassment and peril
of rights may be caused by a hard and fixed rule regarding the
separation of related inventions. See also Mosler Safe Co. v.
Mosler, 127 U. S. 354, and Miller v. Eagle Manufacturing Co.,
151 U. S.186.

STEINMETZ v. ALLEN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Patent Office has not been consistent in its views in
regard to the division of inventions. At times convenience
of administration has seemed to be of greatest concern; at
other times more anxiety has been shown for the rights of
inventors. The policy of the office has been denominated that
of "battledore and shuttlecock," and rule 41 as it now exists
was enacted to give simplicity and uniformity to the practice
of the office. Its enactment was attempted to be justified by
the assumption that the patent laws gave to the office a discretion to permit or deny a joinder of inventions. But, as we
have already said, to establish a rule applicable to all cases
is not to exercise discretion. Such a rule ignores the differences which invoke discretion, and which can alone justify its
exercise, and we are of opinion therefore that rule 41 is an
invalid regulation.
3. Having settled the right of appellant, we may now return
to the consideration of his remedy. Respondent contends:
"It is fundamental that mandamus will not issue against a
public officer, except to compel the performance of some plain,
clear, ministerial duty, and will not issue to control his discretion."
And it is further contended that respondent has acted, and,
having acted, cannot be required to refer the case to a lower
tribunal in his office. To sustain the contention Commissioner
of Patents v. Whiteley, 4 Wall. 522, is cited.
The unity of the inventions claimed by petitioner in the case
at bar we may assume. It is not denied by respondent. Petitioner had, therefore, the right to join them in one application.
The denial of this right by the primary examiner was a rejection of the application and entitled petitioner to an appeal to
the examiners-in-chief, under section 4909 of the Revised
Statutes. That section provides:
any of the claims
"Every applicant for a patent,
may appeal from
of which have been twice rejected, . . .
.
to the board
the decision of the primary examiner .
of examiners-in-chief; . .

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

Section 482 provides:
"The examiners-in-chief shall be persons of competent legal
knowledge and scientific ability, whose duty it shall be, on the
written petition of the appellant to revise and determine upon
the validity of the adverse decisions of examiners upon applications for patents, and for reissues of patents, and in interference cases; and, when required by the Commissioner, they
shall hear and report upon claims for extensions, and perform
such other like duties as he may assign them."
The procedure on appeal is provided for by the rules of the
Patent Office. It is taken by filing a petition praying an appeal with the primary examiner setting forth the reasons upon
which the appeal is based, and it is made the duty of the examiner five days before the date of hearing to furnish the appellate
tribunal and the appellant with a statement of the grounds
of his decision. A petition praying an appeal was filed but the
primary examiner refused to answer the appeal, and the defendant in error also refused to direct him to answer it. It is
manifest that if an appeal cannot be compelled from the decision of the primary examiner, an applicant is entirely without
remedy. And respondent has asserted that extreme. In Ex
parte Frasch the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
was persuaded that an appeal was not the proper remedy. In
the case at bar it is contended that mandamus is not the proper
one. One or the other must be. A suggestion made is that
the inventor must await a decision on the merits, meaning by
merits "lack of invention, novelty or utility," as expressed in
rule 133. But after waiting he would encounter the arbitrary
requirement of rule 41. Besides what would there be to review
if the order of the primary examiner were complied with and
the claims put into separate applications? There are some
observations in Commissioner of Patentsv. Whiteley, which may
be quoted. Whiteley claimed to be the assignee of a patent,
and filed an application for a reissue. The Commissioner declined to entertain it on the ground that Whiteley was only
assignee of an interest and not of the entire patent. He also

STEINMETZ v. ALLEN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

declined to allow an appeal to be taken from his decision. The
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia awarded a peremptory writ of mandamus commanding the Commissioner to
refer the application to the proper examiner, or otherwise
examine or cause it to be examined according to law. Error
was prosecuted to this court. Under the act of 1836 it was
provided that if the Commissioner decided adversely to an
applicant for a patent an appeal could be taken to the board of
examiners, and by the act of 1837 that remedy was given to an
applicant for a reissue of a patent, and the question in the cate
was whether that remedy should have been pursued. In other
words, whether the remedy was by appeal or mandamus. It
was decided that appeal was the remedy. Singularly enough,
the Commissioner in answer to the rule took the position that
the application was not before him because it had not been
filed. The court said if that were so "mandamus would clearly
lie to compel the Commissioner to receive it. It was his first
duty to receive the application. Whatever he might do subsequently, without this initial step there could be no examination, and, indeed, no rightful knowledge of the subject on his
part. Examination and the exercise of judgment, with their
proper fruit, were to follow, and they did follow."
And so the exercise of judgment might .follow a hearing of
the application under review. It was the duty of the primary
examiner to accord a hearing or, refusing to do so, to grant an
appeal. It was the duty of the Commissioner to compel the
appeal. The Commissioner of Patents is primarily charged
with granting and issuing patents. Applications for patents
are made to him (section 4888, Revised Statutes), and his
superintendence should be exercised to secure the rights
which the statutes confer on inventors. The first of those
rights is a hearing. If that be denied other rights cannot
accrue.
The Commissioner justifies his decision by the rules of the
Patent Office and a long practice under them. If there is inconsistency between the rules and statute, the latter must pre-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1903.

Counsel for Petitioner.

192 U. S.

vail. But the primary examiner did not follow the rules.
The rules provide that if appeal be regular in form (italics
ours) he shall within five days of the filing thereof furnish the
examiners-in-chief with a written statement of the grounds of
his decision on all of the points involved in the appeal, with
copies of the rejected claims and with the references applicable thereto. If he decide that the appeal is not regular in
form, a petition from such decision may be made directly to
the Commissioner. The regularity of the appeal in form is
not questioned in the case at bar, and it was the duty of the
examiner to answer the appeal by furnishing the examinersin-chief the statement provided for in rule 135. A petition
to the Commissioner was not necessary except to make the
examiner perform his duty.
4. We do not think that petitioner was estopped from insisting upon his application by proceeding with the interference
with Duncan after the examiner's letter of December 15, 1899.
It would be pressing mere order of procedure and the convenience of the Patent Office too far to give them such result
under the circumstances.
The judgment of the Court of .4opeaps is therefore reversed
with directions to reverse that of the Supreme Court, and
direct the Supreme Court to grant the writ of mandamus
as prayedfor.

Em PareFRASCH.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF

A-NYDAilS TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 13. Original. Argued December 18, 21, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1904.

Mandamus to the Commissioner, and not to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, is the proper remedy to compel the forwarding of an
appeal to the board of examiners-in-chief from the primary examiner.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

MYr. Charles J -edrick for petitioner.

