ADAMS v. NEW YORK.
192 U. S.

Syllabus.

Skields, 5 Dana, 18, 22: "Jurisdiction, unqualified, being, as

it is, the sovereign authority to make, decide on, and execute
laws, a concurrence of jurisdiction, therefore, must entitle Indiana to as much power-legislative, judiciary, and executive,
as that possessed by Kentucky, over so much of the Ohio
River as flows between them."
The conveniences and inconveniences of concurrent jurisdiction both are obvious and do not need to be stated. We have
nothing to do with them when the law-making power has
spoken. To avoid misunderstanding it may be well to add
that the concurrent jurisdiction given is jurisdiction "on" the
river, and does not extend to permanent structures attached
to the river bed and within the boundary of one or the other
State. Therefore, such cases as .AXississippi & lfXissouri Bail.oadv. Ward, 2 Black, 485, do not apply. Sate v. .ullen,
35 Iowa, 199, 206, 207.
Judgment qeversed.

ADAMS v. NEW YORK.
YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUP1REME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW

No. 504. Argued January 27,1904.-Decided February 23, 1904.
ilThe fact that papers, which are pertinent to the issue, may have been

legally taken from the possession of the party against whom they are
offered is not a valid objection to their admissibility. The court considers the competency of the evidence and not the method by which it
was obtained.
There is no violation of the constitutional guaranty of privilege from unlawful searches and seizures in admitting as evidence in a criminal trial,
papers found in the execution of a valid search warrant prior to the indictment; and by the introduction of such evidence defendant is not compelled to incriminate himself.
It is within the established power of a State to prescribe the evidence which
is to be received in its own courts. The provisions of sections 344a, and
344b, of the Penal Code of New York making the possession of policy
slips by a person other than a public officer presumption of possession

OCTOBER TERNI, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

knowingly in violation of law are not violative of the Fourteenth Amendment, are not unconstitutional as depriving a citizen of his liberty or
property without due process of law, and do not, on account of the exception as to public officers, deprive him of the equal protection of the laws.
A suggested construction of a state statute which would lead to a manifest
absurdity and which has not, and is not likely to receive judicial sanction,
will not be accepted by this court as the basis of declaring the statute unconstitutional when the courts of the State have given it a construction
which is the only one consistent with its purposes and under which it is
constitutional.

Tins is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
New York. The plaintiff in error at the April term, 1903, of
the Supreme Court of the State of New York was tried before
one of the justices of that court and a jury and convicted of
the crime of having in his possession, knowingly, certain
gambling paraphernalia used in the game commonly known as
policy, in violation of section 344a of the Penal Code of the
State of New York. This section and the one following, section 344b, relating to the offence in question, are as follows:
"SEc. 344a. Keeping Place to Play Policy.-A person
who keeps, occupies or uses, or permits to be kept, occupied
or used, a place, building, room, table, establishment or apparatus for policy playing, or for the sale of what are commonly
called ' lottery policies,' or who delivers or receives money or
other valuable consideration in playing policy, or in aiding in
the playing thereof, or for what is commonly called a ' lottery
policy,' or for any writing, paper or document in the nature of
a bet, wager or insurance upon the drawing or drawn numbers
of any public or private lottery; or who shall have in his
possession, knowingly, any writing, paper or document, representing or being a record of any chance, share or interest in
numbers sold, drawn or to be drawn, or in what is commonly
called 'policy,' or in the nature of a bet, wager or insurance,
upon the drawing or drawn numbers of any public or private
lottery; or any paper, print, writing, numbers, device, policy
slip or article of any kind such as is commonly used in carrying on, promoting or playing the game commonly called
' policy '; or who is the owner, agent, superintendent, janitor
or caretaker of any place, building or room where policy play-

ADAMS v. NEW YORK.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ing or the sale of what are commonly called ' lottery policies'
is carried on with his knowledge or after notification that the
premises are so used, permits such use to be continued, or who
aids, assists or abets in any manner, in any of the offences, acts
or matters herein named, is a common gambler, and punishable by imprisonment for not more than two. years, and in the
discretion of the court, by a fine not exceeding one thousand
dollars, or both.
"S1Ec. 344b. Possession of Policy Slip, etc., Presumptive Evidence.-The possession, by any person other than a public
officer, of any writing, paper or document representing or
being a record of any chance, share or interest in numbers
sold, drawn or to be drawn, or in what is commonly called
'policy,' or in the nature of a bet, wager or insurance upon
the drawing or drawn numbers of any public or private lottery,
or any paper, print, writing, numbers or device, policy slip or
article of any kind, such as is commonly used in carrying on,
promoting or playing the game commonly called 'policy,' is
presumptive evidence of possession thereof knowingly and in
violation of the provisions of section three hundred and fortyfour a."
The assignments of error in this court are:
"First. That the court erred in holding that by the reception in evidence of the defendant's private papers seized in the
raid of his premises, against his protest and without his consent,
which bad no relation whatsoever to the game of policy, for
the possession of papers used in connection with which said
game he was convicted, his constitutional right to be secure in
his person, papers and effects against unreasonable searches
and seizures was not violated, and that he was also thereby
not compelled to be a witness against himself in contravention
of the Fourth, Fifth and Fourteenth Articles of Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States.
"Second That the court erred in holding that the statute,
sections 344a, 344b, of the Penal Code of the State of New
York, under which the indictment against the plaintiff in error
was found, and his conviction was had, did not deprive him of
rights, privileges and immunities secured to other citizens of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

the United States and of said State of New York, nor of
liberty or property, without due process of law, nor of the
equal protection of the laws in violation of section 1 of the
Fourteenth Article of Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.
" Titird. That the court erred in affirming the judgment of
conviction, and in refusing to discharge the plaintiff in error
from custody."
The game of policy referred to in the sections of the statute
quoted is a lottery scheme carried on, as shown in the testimony,
by means of certain numbers procured at the shop or place where
the game is played, and consists in an attempt to guess whether
one or more of the series held by the player will be included
in a list of twelve or at times thirteen of the numbers between
one and seventy-eight, which are supposed to be drawn daily
at the headquarters of the operators of the game. A person
desiring to play the game causes the numbers to be entered on
series of slips or manifold sheets. One of these pieces of paper
containing the combination played by the person entering the
game is kept by him and is knownas a policy slip. Drawings
are held twice a day, and the holder of the successful combination receives the money which goes to the winner of the game.
About 3500 of these slips were found in the office occupied by
the plaintiff in error, which was searched by certain police
officers holding a search warrant. The officers took not only
the policy slips, but certain other papers, which were received
in evidence against the plaintiff in error at the trial, against
his objection, for the purpose of identifying certain handwriting of the defendant upon the slips, and also to show that
the papers belonged to the defendant and were in the same
custody as the policy slips.
So far as the case presents a Federal question, the Court of
Appeals of the State of New York held (176 N. Y. 351)
that the Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution
of the United States do not contain limitations upon the power
of the States, and proceeded to examine the case in the light
of similar provisions in the Constitution and bill of rights of
that State.

ADAMS v. NEW YORK.
192 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

M1r. L. LVin Eellogg, with whom Mfr. Alfred C. PeWtt was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The record in this case presents a Federal question which
should be reviewed by this court. When the private papers
seized in the raid of the defendant's premises were offered in
evidence upon the trial, their reception was objected to on the
express ground that their introduction would be in violation
of the defendant's rights secured to him by the Constitution
of the United States, and the same question was presented to
and decided adversely by the Appellate Division and the
Court of Appeals. As to the application of the Fourth and
Fifth Amendments to proceedings in state court, see Afrawwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581; Browm v. Hew Jersey, 175 U. S. 582.
The rights of a person to be secure in his person, papers
and effects against unreasonable searches and seizures, and not
to be compelled in a criminal case to be a witness against himself, are fundamental rights of American citizenship and protected by the Federal Constitution against legislation by the
States. .faxwell v. Dow, supra.
There is no intimation, however, that if a violation of the
Federal Constitution had been the ground of objection in the
state court, and an adverse decision had been reached, a Federal question would not have been presented for review by
this court. Levy v. Superior Court of San Francisco, 167
U. S. 175 ; .Mallett v. North Carolina,181 U. S. 589.
Sections 344a, 344b, New York Penal Code, are unconstitutional because to create an arbitrary presumption of guilt is
to deprive a defendant of his liberty and property without" due
process of law," in that the right to be presumed innocent until he is proven to be guilty is taken away, and the right to a
jury trial is thereby curtailed. State v. Beswick, 13 R. I. 211;
Wynehzmer v. People, 13 N. Y. 446 ; to except from that presumption every public officer, and to make it applicable only
to private citizens, is to deny the equal protection of the laws;
to make the possession of these articles which are in themselves harmless, a criminal offence is an arbitrary exercise of
power.
By the reception in evidence of the defendant's private

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

192 U. S.

papers, seized in the raid which had no relation to the game
of policy, his constitutional right to be secure in his person,
papers and effects against unreasonable searches and seizures
was violated, and he was also thereby compelled to be a
witness against himself in contravention of the Fourth, Fifth
and Fourteenth Amendments, and defendant's rights were
grossly violated. Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616.
These constitutional safeguards would be deprived of a large
part of their value if they could be invoked only for preventing the obtaining of such evidence, and not for protection
against its use. The cases cited show that they cover the use
of papers for testimony when it would be a carrying out of
their violation. United States v. Wong Quong Wong, 94: Fed.
Rep. 832. State v. Sheridan (Iowa), 96 N. W. Rep. 730; State
v. Slamon, 73 Vermont, 212.
While it is generally considered immaterial how a paper
passes into the possession of one offering it in evidence,
this rule is subject to another rule which is applicable that
when a party invokes the constitutional right of freedom from
unlawful search and seizure, the court will take notice of the
question and determine it. State v. Slamon, supr'a; and for
other cases holding analogous views, see In re Jaceson, 96
U. S. 727; In 're Pacfte Railway Commission, 32 Fed. Rep.
241 ; Hoover v. 3fcChesney, 81 Fed. Rep. 472.
Where a person is accused of crime, and could not himself
be compelled to produce his private papers and books as evidence against himself, either by subpcena or other legal process, the fact that he has been divested of his possession
wrongfully and unlawfully does not prevent him from urging
the protection afforded by the constitutional provision against
unreasonable searches and seizures. Cooley's Const. Lim.
(6th ed.) 370.
The cases relied on by the people and cited in the opinion
of the lower court are not in point. In most cases the evidence
admitted was part of the res gestm. A trial and conviction in
an unconstitutional way is as violative of a defendant's constitutional rights as a trial and conviction under an unconstitutional law. Ex parte Veilsen, 131 U. S. 176.

ADAMS v. NEW YORK.
192 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

The provisions of the penal code are wholly arbitrary, because they make an entirely innocent act a highly penal offense which the legislature has not the power to do. People
v. Gillson, 109 N. Y. 389; Jilatter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98;
People v. ffarx, 99 N. Y. 377; People v. Arensberg, 103 N.
Y. 388; Forster v. Scott, 136 N. Y. 577. As to construction
of this statute, see People ex rel. &c. v. Flynn, 72 App.
Div. 67.
The presumption of guilt created by the statute thus
eliminates all question of criminal intent, which, it would
seem, is a necessary ingredient of the offense under see. 344a.
United States v. Carll, 105 U. S. 611.
An act which is not an offense against the New York laws,
nor punishable by the New York laws, is made presumptive
evidence of an offense against and punishable by such laws
which is improper. State v. Beswick, 13 R. I. 211; Wynelumer v. The People, 13 N. Y. 378; State v. _Yartz, 13 iR. I.
328. It is like a bill of attainder. Cummings v. Missouri, 71
U. S. 277; 6reen v. Shumuay, 39 N. Y. 418.
.&. Howard S. Gans, with whom Mr. William Travers
Jerome was on the brief, for defendants in error:
The admission in evidence of the defendant's private papers
does not present a Federal question, even though it be assumed that it involved an unreasonable search or seizure, or
that it compelled the defendant to become a witness against
himself in a criminal case.
The Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Federal Constitution do not ep propriovigore operate as limitations upon the
powers of the several States, and nothing therein contained
would affect the validity of a state statute compelling a person
to be a witness against himself in a criminal case, or avowedly
authorizing unreasonable searches and seizures. Toringtonv.
JAontgomery, 147 U. S. 490, 492; Brown v. New Jersey, 175
U. S. 172, p. 174; .Aaxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581.
The Fourteenth Amendment has not changed radically the
relation of the Federal Government to that of the States and to
the people, or PgteideI to the state governments the restric,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

192 U. S.

tions imposed upon the power of the Federal Government by
the first tea amendments. Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S.
516; In re Kemmer, 136 U. S. 436, 448; .faxwell v. Dow,

176 U. S. 581.
Even if the provisions of the Federal Constitution prohibited
the State of New York to authorize an unreasonable search or
seizure, or to compel a person to be a witness against himself
in a criminal case, the reception in evidence of the papers so
seized would not constitute an invasion of the rights thus
guaranteed.
It was lawful to seize and introduce in evidence against the

defendant the manifold sheets themselves, and this neither
constituted an unreasonable search nor compelled the defendant to be a witness against himself. Boyd v. United States,
116 U. S.616, 623 ; -Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S.133, 140. The
constitutional provision which exempts a person from the obligation of becoming a witness against himself in a criminal
case is not to be extended so as to prevent the use of papers or
documents forcibly taken from his possession which may tend
to assist in his conviction of crime. People v. Gardner,144
N. Y. 119; People v. Yan W'ormer, 175 N. Y. 188, 195.
The law does not concern itself with the method whereby
a criminal is brought to the bar, or, with some slight exceptions, with the means whereby evidence against him has been
obtained. Greenleaf on Evidence, vol. 1, see. 254a; Gind'at v. People, 138 Illinois, 103; Commonwealth v. Tibbetts, 157

Massachusetts, 519 ; State v. Fan Tassel, 103 Iowa, 6 ; Chastang v. State, 83 Alabama, 29; Starchran,v. State, 62 Arkansas,
538; State v. Flynn, 36 N. H. 64; Shields v. State, 104 Alabama, 35 ; State v. Atkinson, 40 S.Car. 363 ; Williams v. State,

100 Georgia, 511; State v. .aub, 15 Mo. App. 433; Ruloffv.
People, 45 N. Y. 213 ; .er v. Illinois, 119 U. S. 436 ; .Mahon v.
Justice, 127 U. S.700, 708.
Section 344a of the Penal Code is not in conflict with any
of the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.

Zottery Case, 188 U. S.321, 356.

The power of the State in furtherance of a public purpose
to declare criminal even that which in itself is innocent, and

ADAMS v. NEW YORK.
192 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error

to prohibit the possession of even a useful article is settled beyond question. The mere possession of fish or game or of the
instrumentalities for their destruction may be prescribed and
affected with criminal consequences. Phe~ps v. Racy, 60 N.
Y. 10 ; People v. Buffalo Fish Co., 164 N. Y. 93 ; -Lawtonv.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133, at p. 143 ; Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U.
S. 519.
Afortiori as to the power of the State to prohibit the possession of instrumentalities of gambling, or other noxious pursuits. Stone v. .Mississvipi, 101 U. S. 814; Douglas v. -Yntucky, 168 U. S. 488.
The provisions of 344b making proof of possession jrima
facie proof that the possession was conscious is constitutional.
The legislature may enact that when certain facts have been
proved, they shall beprimafacieevidence of the existence of
the main fact in question, provided the inference of the existence of the main fact, because of the existence of the fact
actually proved, must not be merely and purely arbitrary or
wholly unreasonable, unnatural or extraordinary. The connection between the fact proven and the fact in issue need not
be that of inevitable inference, nor need the fact. inferred be
one which is within the exclusive knowledge of the person
against whom the inference is drawn. People v. Cannon, 139
N. Y. 32; Cooley's Const. Lim. pp. 367, 369; State v. Cunninghamn, 25 Connecticut, 195; TooteMv.Florida,1L.R.A.
819 ; Corn. v. Williams, 6 Gray (72 Mass.), 1; State v. _rurey,
54 Maine, 562 ; State v. Higgins,13 R. I. 330; State v..Xelor,
13 'R. I. 666, 669; Com. v. .elly, 10 Cush. (64 Mass.) 69;
Com. v. Tuttle, 12 Cush. 502; Jfeadowcroft v. People, 163 Illinois, 56; State v. Buck, 120 Missouri, 4'[9; State v. Beach,
36 L. R. A. 1'19 MAorgan v. State, 11'7 Indiana, 569.
The Federal Criminal Code includes numerous primafacie
evidence provisions similar to the one here under discussion.
See ยง 3082, Rev. Stat. as to effect of presumptions in regard
of possession of smuggled goods. Tilley v. Savannah By.
Co., 5 Fed. Rep. 641, 659.
It is within the acknowledged power of every legislature
to prescribe the evidence which shall be received., and the
VOL. Cxcii-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

effect of that evidence in the courts of its own government.
Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698, 729 ; ) arks
v. HYanthorn, 148 U. S. 172, 182 ; Pillow v. ]oberts, 13 How.
472, 476; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 212, 348.
Section 344 is not class legislation because it applies a different rule to public officers. People v. Cannon, 139 N. Y. 32;
People v. Stedeker, 175 N. Y. 57; People v. Nfoclke, 29 Hun,
461, 466 ; S. C., affirmed 94 N. Y. 137.
AIR.

JusTIoE

DAY, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
We do not feel called upon to discuss the contention that
the Fourteenth Amendment has made the provisions of the
Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the
United States, so far as they relate to the right of the people
to be secure against unreasonable searches and seizures and
protect them against being compelled to testify in a criminal
case against themselves, privileges and immunities of citizens
of the United States of which they may not be deprived by
the action of the States. An examination of this record convinces us that there has been no violation of these constitutional restrictions, either in an unreasonable search or seizure,
or in compelling the plaintiff in error to testify against himself.
No objection was taken at the trial to the introduction of
the testimony of the officers holding the search warrant as to
the seizure of the policy slips; the objection raised was to receiving in evidence certain private papers. These papers became important as tending to show the custody by the plaintiff in error, with knowledge, of the policy slips. The question
was not made in the attempt to resist an unlawful seizure of
the private papers of the plaintiff in error, but arose upon objection to the introduction of testimony clearly competent as
tending to establish the guilt of the accused of the offense
charged. In such cases the weight of authority as well as
reason limits the inquiry to the competency of the proffered
testimony, and the courts do not stop to inquire as to the
means by which the evidence was obtained. The rule is thus
laid down in Greenleaf, vol. 1, sec. 254a:

ADAMS v. NEWI
192 U. S.

YORK.

Opinion of the Court.

"It may be mentioned in this place that though papers and
other subjects of evidence may have been illegally taken from
the possession of the party against whom they are offered or
otherwise unlawfully obtained, this is no valid objection to
their admissibility if they are pertinent to the issue. The
court will not take notice how they were obtained, whether
lawfully or unlawfully, nor will it form an issue to determine
that question."
The author is supported by numerous cases. Of them, perhaps the leading one is Commonwealth v. Dana, 2 Met.
(Mass.) 329, in which the opinion was given by Mr. Justice
Wilde, in the course of which he said:
"There is another conclusive answer to all these objections.
Admitting that the lottery tickets and material were illegally
seized, still this is no legal objection to the admission of them
in evidence. If the search warrant were illegal, or if the
officer serving the warrant exceeded his authority, the party
on whose complaint the warrant issued, or the officer, would
be responsible for the wrong done; but this is no good reason
for excluding the papers seized as evidence, if they were pertinent to the issue, as they unquestionably were. When papers.
are offered in evidence the court can take no notice how they
were obtained, whether lawfully or unlawfully; nor would they
form a collateral issue to determine that question. This point
was decided in the cases of -Leggattv. TaZlervey, 14 East, 302,
and Jrdan v. Lewis, 14 East, 306 note, and we are entirely
satisfied that the principle on which these cases were decided
is sound and well established."
This principle has been repeatedly affirmed in subsequent
cases by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, among
others Com.monwealth v. TVbbets, 157 Massachusetts, 519. In
that case a police officer, armed with a search warrant calling
for a search for intoxicating liquors upon the premises of the
defendan t's husband, took two letters which he found at the
time. Of the competency of this testimony the court said:
"But two points have been argued. The first is that the
criminatory articles and letters found by the officer in the defendant's possession were not admissible in evidence, because

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

the officer had no warrant to search for them, and his only authority was under a warrant to search her husband's premises
for intoxicating liquors. The defendant contends that under
such circumstances the finding of criminatory articles or papers
can only be proved when by express provision of statute the
possession of them is itself made criminal. This ground of
distinction is untenable. Evidence which is pertinent to the
issue is admissible, although it may have been procured in an
irregular or even in an illegal manner. A trespasser may testify to pertinent facts observed by him, or may put in evidence
pertinent articles or papers found by him while trespassing.
For the trespass he may be held responsible civilly, and perhaps criminally; but his testimony is not thereby rendered incompetent." Commonwealth v. Acton, 165 Massachusetts, 11;
Commonwealth v. Smith, 166 Massachusetts, 370.
To the same effect are Chastang v. State, 83 Alabama, 29;
State v. .Flynn, 36 N. H. 64. In the latter case it was held:
"Evidence obtained by means of a search warrant is not inadmissible, either upon the ground that it is in the nature of
admissions made under duress, or that it is evidence which the
defendant has been compelled to furnish against himself, or on
the ground that the evidence has been unfairly or illegally obtained, even if it appears that the search warrant was illegally
issued." State v. Edwards, 51 W. Va. 220; Shields v. State,
104 Alabama, 35; Bacon v. United States, 97 Fed. Rep. 35;
State v. Atkinson, 40 S. Car. 363; Williams v. State, 100
Georgia, 511; State v. Pomeroy, 130 Missouri, 489; Gindratv.
The People,138 Illinois, 103 ; Trask v. The People,151 Illinois,
523; Starchman v. State, 62 Arkansas, 538.
In this court it has been held that if a person is brought
within the jurisdiction of one State from another, or from a
foreign country, by the unlawful use of force, which would
render the officer liable to a civil action or in a criminal proceeding because of the forcible abduction, such fact would not
prevent the trial of the person thus abducted in the State
wherein he had committed an offence. RYer v. llinois, 119
U. S. 436; Mahon v. Justice, 127 U. S. 700. The case most
relied upon in argument by plaintiff in error is the leading one

ADAMS v. NEW YORK.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616. In that case a section of the customs and revenue laws of the United States authorized the court in revenue cases, on motion of the government's attorney, to require the production by the defendant of
certain books, records and papers in court, otherwise the allegation of the government's attorney as to their contents to be
taken as true. It was held that the act was unconstitutional
and void as applied to a suit for a penalty or a forfeiture of
the party's goods. The case has been frequently cited by this
court and we have no wish to detract from its authority. That
case presents the question whether one can be compelled to
produce his books and papers in a suit which seeks the forfeiture of his estate on pain of having the statements of government's counsel as to the contents thereof taken as true and
used as testimony for the government. The court held in an
opinion by Mr. Justice Bradley that such procedure was in
violation of both the Fourth and Fifth Amendments; the
Chief Justice and Justice Miller held that the compulsory production of such documents did not come within the terms of
the Fourth Amendment as an unreasonable search or seizure,
but concurred with the majority in holding that the lav was
in violation of the Fifth Amendment. This case has been cited
and distinguished in many of the cases from the state courts
which we have had occasion to examine.
The Supreme Court of the State of New York, before which
the defendant was tried, was not called upon to issue process
or make any order calling for the production of the private
papers of the accused, nor was there any question presented
as to the liability of the officer for the wrongful seizure, or of
the plaintiff in error's right to resist with force the unlawful
conduct of the officer, but the question solely was, were the
papers found in the execution of the search warrant, which
had a legal purpose in the attempt to find gambling paraphernalia, competent evidence against the accused? We think
there was no violation of the constitutional guaranty of privilege from unlawful search or seizure in the admission of this
testimony. Nor do we think the accused was compelled to
incriminate himself. He did not take the witness stand in his

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

own behalf, as was his privilege under the laws of the State
of New York. He was not compelled to testify concerning
the papers or make any admission about them.
The origin of these amendments is elaborately considered
in Mr. Justice Bradley's opinion in the Boyd case, supra. The
security intended to be guaranteed by the Fourth Amendment
against wrongful search and seizures is designed to prevent
violations of private security in person and property and unlawful invasion of the sanctity of the home of the citizen by
officers of the law, acting under legislative or judicial sanction,
and to give remedy against such usurpations when attempted.
But the English and nearly all of the American cases have
declined to extend this doctrine to the extent of excluding
testimony which has been obtained by such means, if it is
otherwise competent. In Boyd's case the law held unconstitutional, virtually compelled the defendant to furnish testimony against himself in a suit to forfeit his estate, and ran
counter to both the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. The
right to issue a search warrant to discover stolen property or
the means of committing crimes, is too long established to require discussion. The right of seizure of lottery tickets and
gambling devices, such as policy slips, under such warrants,
requires no argument to sustain it at this day. But the contention is that, if in the search for the instruments of crime,
other papers are taken, the same may not be given in evidence.
As an illustration, if a search warrant is issued for stolen property and burglars' tools be discovered and seized, they are to
be excluded from testimony by force of these amendments.
We think they were never intended to have that effect, but
are rather designed to protect against compulsory testimony
from a defendant against himself in a criminal trial, and to
punish wrongful invasion of the home of the citizen or the unwarranted seizure of his papers and property, and to render
invalid legislation or judicial procedure having such effect.
It is further urged that the law of the State of New York,
Penal Code, ยง 344b, which makes the possession by persons
other than a public officer of papers or documents, being the
record of chances or slips in what is commonly known as

ADAMS v. NEW YORK..
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

policy, or policy slips, or the possession of any paper, print or
writing commonly used in playing or promoting the game of
policy, presumption of possession thereof knowingly in violation
of section 344a, is a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States in that it deprives a
citizen of his liberty and property without due process of law.
We fail to perceive any force in this argument. The policy
slips are property of an unusual character and not likely, particularly in large quantities, to be found in the possession of
innocent parties. Like other gambling paraphernalia, their
possession indicates their use or intended use, and may well
raise some inference against their possessor in the absence of
explanation. Such is the effect of this statute. Innocent persons would have no trouble in explaining the possession of
these tickets, and in any event the possession is only pn'ima
facie evidence, arfd the party is permitted to produce such
testimony as will show the truth concerning the possession of
the slips. Furthermore, it is within the established power of
the State to prescribe the evidence which is to be received in
the courts of its own government. Fong Yue Ting v. United
States, 149 U. S. 698, 729.
It is argued, lastly, that section 344b, is unconstitutional because-the possession of the policy tickets is presumptive evidence against all except public officers, and it is urged that
public officials, from the governor to notaries public, would
thus be excluded from the terms of the law which apply to
all non-official persons. This provision was evidently put into
the statute for the purpose of excluding the presumption
raised by possession where such tickets or slips are seized and
are in the custody of officers of the law. This was the construction given to the act by the New York courts, and is the
only one consistent with its purposes. The construction suggested would lead to a manifest absurdity, which has not received, and is not likely to receive, judicial sanction. We
find nothing in the record before us to warrant a reversal of
the conclusions reached in the New York Court of Appeals,
and its
Judgment will be afirned.

