OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

192 U. S.

and yet one which each was at liberty to make, and no public
policy was violated thereby.
It follows from these considerations that there was error in
the proceedings of the Circuit Court and Court of Appeals. The
judgments of those courts will be reversed and the case remanded to the Circuit Court with instructions to set aside the
verdict and grant a new trial.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

and MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

dissent.

ST. CLAIR COUNTY v. INTERSTATE SAND AND CAR
TRANSFER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 17. Argued March 19, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1904.

Conceding, arguendo, that the police power of a State extends to the establishment, regulation or licensing of ferries on navigable streams which are
boundaries between it and another State, there are no decisions of this
court importing power in a State to directly control interstate commerce
or any transportation by water across such a river which does not constitute a ferry in the strict technical sense of that term.
There is an essential distinction between a ferry in the restricted and legal
signification of the term and the transportation of railroad cars across a
boundary river between two States constituting interstate commerce, and
such transportation cannot be subjected to conditions imposed by a State
which are direct burdens upon interstate commerce.
THE facts in this case, which involved the right of the county
to recover statutory penalties for carrying on, without a ferry
license, the transportation of cars across the Mississippi River between points in Illinois and Missouri, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles W. Thomas for plaintiff in error submitted:
The authority to establish and regulate ferries between States

ST. CLAIR COUNTY v. INTERSTATE TRANSFER CO. 455
192 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

is not included in the power of the Federal government to
"regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States and with Indian tribes." That authority was reserved to the States respectively and never delegated to the
United States. Conway et al. v. Taylor's Exrs., 1 Black, 603;
Wiggins Ferry Co. v. East St. Louis, 107 U. S. 365; Tugwell v.
Eagle Pass Ferry Co., 74 Texas, 480; Carroll v. Campbell, 108
Missouri, 550; S. C., 110 Missouri, 557; Marshall v. Grimes, 41
Mississippi, 27; People v. Babcock, '11 Wend. 586; Fanning v.
Gregoire,16 How. 524. See also Mills v. St. Clair County, 3 Gil.
(Ill.) 197; aff'd 8 How. 569; Columbia & Bridge Co. v. Geisee, 38
N. J. Law, 39; Memphis v. Overton, 3 Yerger, 390; Chilvers v.
People, 11 Michigan, 43; Bowman v. Walthen, 2 McLean, 377.
A ferry is in respect of the landing place and not of the water.
The water may be to one and the ferry to another. 13 Viner's
Ab. 208 A, cited in Conway v. Taylor's Ex., 1 Black, 629.
Mr. John F. Lee, with whom Mr. George R. Lockwood was on
the brief, for defendant in error:
The ferry business carried on by defendant is interstate
commerce conducted on the Mississippi River, a navigable
water of the United States; and the State of Illinois cannot require defendant to obtain a license from the Board of Commissioners of St. Clair County to conduct such commerce.. Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; GloucesterFerry Co. v. Pennsylvania,114
U. S.196; Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S.204, 217;
Harmanv. Chicago, 147 U. S.396; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.
622; Moran v. New Orleans, 112 U. S.69; Mobile v. Kimball,
102 U. S.691; Hall v. DeCuir,95 U. S.485; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170
U. S.412; Wabash Railway Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S.557, 564;
Pickardv. Pullman Co., 117 U. S. 34; Hays v. PacificMail S. S.
Co., 17 How. 596; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S.282; In re Debs,
158 U. S.564; Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U.
S.211; Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 166 U. S.185; Philadelphia,
etc., v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S.326; Bowman v. C. & N. W. Ry.
Co., 125 U. S.465, 508; Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S.640; St.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

Louis v. W. U. Tel. Co., 148 U. S. 92; Californiav. Pacific R. R.
Co., 127 U. S. 1; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Brennan
v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289, 302; Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U. S.
230, 245; Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648, 653; Pickard v.
Pullman Co., 117 U. S. 34; Norfolk Ry.Co. v. Pennsylvania,136
U. S. 114; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Illinois, 163 U. S. 142;
Robbins v. Shelby Co., 120 U. S.489; St. Louis v. Consolidated
Coal Co., 158 Missouri, 342.
Even if the State of Illinois had power to exact a license fee
from all persons engaged in carrying on interstate commerce
by means of ferries, the discriminations of the act in question
in favor of existing ferries and landowners, and the authority
given the Boards of County Commissioners to discriminate between applicants for a license, makes the act void so far as it
relates to interstate commerce. Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S.
434.
MR.JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was commenced in a court of the State of Illinois
by the county of St. Clair, a municipal corporation of the State
of Illinois, against the Interstate Sand and Car Transfer Company, a Missouri corporation, to recover statutory penalties.
We shall hereafter refer to the one party as the county and to
the other as the company. The right of the county to recover
was based upon the charge that the company had, during
certain years which were stated, incurred penalties to the amount
sued for, because it had carried on a ferry for transporting
railroad cars, loaded or unloaded, from the county of St. Clair
in Illinois to the Missouri shore and from the Missouri shore to
the county of St. Clair, without obtaining a license from the
county, as was required by the law of Illinois. The cause of
action was thus stated in the complaint.
"And plaintiff avers that the said defendant, in order to keep
and use its said ferry at the time of its establishment as aforesaid, constructed and caused to be built a permanent landing

ST. CLAIR COUNTY v. INTERSTATE TRANSFER CO. 457
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

place with certain cradles and roadways thereto, within the
limits of said county, and has from thence hitherto maintained
the same, by means whereof as well as by means of certain
steamboats and barges, then and from thence hitherto used for
that purpose by the defendant, it, the said defendant, was
enabled to and did, at various times and continuously since the
day last aforesaid, ferry for profit and hire, property, to wit,
certain railroad cars from said county across the Mississippi
River aforesaid, and from the west bank of said river to the
said county, and has so ferried said cars within the time aforesaid to the number of, to wit, eighty thousand railroad cars
across said river, without any license from the county board
of the plaintiff so to do, whereby and by virtue of the statute
in such case made and provided penalties have accrued to the
plaintiff in the sum of $3 for each one of said cars so ferried,
to wit, the sum of two hundred and forty thousand dollars."
The case was removed by the company on diversity of
citizenship to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois. In that court the company filed
a general demurrer, which was sustained. From the final
judgment dismissing the complaint the case was brought directly to this court because solely involving the construction
or application of the Constitution of the United States.
The court below decided that the company was not liable
for the penalties, because the law of Illinois purporting to
impose upon the company the obligation of taking out a license
was not binding, as it was repugnant to the commerce clause
of the Constitution of the United States. The conclusions of
the court upon this subject were in substance based on what
was deemed to be the result of the rulings in Gloucester Ferry
Company v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, and Covington &
CincinnatiBridge Company v. Kentucky, 154 U. S.204.
In the argument at bar the county insists that the lower
court erred in applying the cases mentioned, because those cases
did not question the power of the several States to license and
regulate ferries, but prevailed upon other considerations, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

hence were inapposite. It is insisted that a consistent line of
other cases decided by this court, commencing at an early day,
determined that the right to establish, regulate and license
ferries, even though they be across a navigable river constituting a boundary between two States, rests exclusively within
the several States, as embraced within police powers reserved
to the several States, and not delegated to the national government. On the other hand, the company insists that, whilst
undoubtedly there are decisions of this court apparently sustaining the contention of the other .side, when properly considered the' cases referred to must be limited to ferries over
streams wholly within a State, and to the extent that certain
of the cases cannot be so limited, they have been in effect
overruled. As, then, both sides confidently rely upon prior
adjudications of this court, and both in effect argue that the
cases which are asserted to sustain the view urged by the other
side are in irreconcilable conflict with other cases, it becomes
necessary to briefly advert to the cases relied upon by both
parties in order to ascertain whether the asserted antagonism
between the decided cases really obtains so far as it may be
necessary for the decision of the question arising on this record,
and if not, to apply the rule settled by the previous cases, and,
if the conflict does exist between the adjudications, to determine which of the prior decisions announce the correct rule
and to follow it.
In Gibbons v. Ogden, (1824) 9 Wheat. 1, wherein it was held
that the acts of the legislature of New York, granting to
Livingston and Fulton exclusive rights to navigation, by
steamboats, in the navigable waters within the jurisdiction
of the State of New York, was repugnant to the commerce
clause of the Constitution, in the course of the opinion Mr.
Chief Justice Marshall said (p. 65):
"Internal commerce must be that which is wholly carried
on within the limits of a State; as, where the commencement,
progress and termination of the voyage are wholly confined
to the territory of the State. This branch of power includes

ST. CLAR COUNTY v. INTERSTATE TRANSFER CO. 459
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a vast range of state legislation, such as turnpike-roads, tollbridges, exclusive rights to run stage-wagons, auction licenses,
licenses to retailers and to hawkers and pedlers, ferries over
navigable rivers and lakes, and all exclusive rights to carry
goods and passengers, by land or water. All such laws must
necessarily affect, to a great extent, the foreign trade, and that
letween the States, as well as the trade among the citizens of
the same State. But, although these laws do thus affect trade
and commerce with other States, Congress cannot interfere, as
its power does not reach the regulation of internal trade, which
resides exclusively in the States."
In Fanningv. Gregoire, (1853) 16 How. 524, the question for
decision was whether a subsequent grant of a license for a
ferry across the Mississippi River interfered with and violated
the rights of a prior license to a ferry of like character. In
other words, the question was whether the grant of the first
license was exclusive and prevented the grant of a second
license. The court decided that the first grant was not exclusive; and in concluding the opinion-speaking through Mr.
Justice McLean, and noticing the argument that the guaranty
contained in the ordinance of 1787, in respect to the free navigation of the Mississippi River and the power delegated to
Congress to regulate commerce between the States were in
conflict with the asserted power of the State to grant the
second ferry license in question-said (p. 534):
"Neither of these interfere with the police power of the
States, in granting ferry licenses. When navigable rivers,
within the commercial power of the Union, may be obstructed,
one or both of these powers may be invoked."
In Conway v. Taylor, (1861) 1 Black, 603, the case was substantially this: An exclusive franchise had been granted by
the laws of Kentucky to operate a ferry from the Kentucky
shore across the Ohio River. A person having commenced
to operate a ferry from the Ohio shore to the Kentucky side,
in conflict with the exclusive right, his power to do so was
resisted in the Kentucky courts on the ground that it was

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

violative of the Kentucky ferry franchise. The courts of
Kentucky held that it was in conflict with the Kentucky franchise for the person operating the ferry from the Ohio shore
to conduct a ferry from the Kentucky side back to Ohio, and
therefore restrained the ferry to that extent. The Kentucky
court in effect enforced the exclusive right of the one owning
the Kentucky ferry to ferry from Kentucky across to Ohio,
but declined to restrain the right of the Ohio ferryowner to
ferry from Ohio to Kentucky. The judgment of the Kentucky
court came to this court for review and it was affirmed. In
the course of the opinion, announced by Mr. Justice Swayne,
it was expressly stated that the right existed in the several
States bordering on navigable rivers which were a boundary
between two States to grant a ferry privilege from their own
borders to cross the river. The court said (p. 629):
"The concurrent action of the two States was not necessary.
'A ferry is in respect the landing place, and not of the water.
The water may be to one and the ferry to another.' 13 Viner's
Ab. 208A."
"The franchise is confined to the transit from the shore of
the State. The same rights which she claims for herself she
concedes to others."
Further along in the opinion (p. 633) the language which
we have previously cited from the opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall in Gibbons v. Ogden was quoted in part, as follows
(italicized as in the reports):
"The court said: 'They [State inspection laws] form a portion of the immense mass of legislation which embraces everything within the territory of a State not surrendered to the
General Government; all which can be most advantageously
exercised by the States themselves. Inspection laws, quarantine laws, health laws of every description, as well as laws for
regulating the internal commerce of a State, and those which
respect turnpike roads, ferries, &c., are parts of this mass.' "
After referring to Fanningv. Gregoire, and citing the passage

ST. CLAIR COUNTY v. INTERSTATE TRANSFER CO.461
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which we have previously quoted as affirming the doctrine that
a State had a right to grant a ferry license across a navigable
river, being the boundary between the granting and another
State, the question of the operation of the commerce clause
of the Constitution of the United States was passed on. The
court declared (p. 633) that there was no repugnancy to the
commerce clause of the Constitution in the mere licensing by
a State of a ferry; that the regularity and nature of the business
of ferrying was such that the granting of a privilege on the
subject did not regulate interstate commerce, and therefore,
despite an exclusive ferry privilege, interstate commerce was
free from restraint by the State. In conclusion, however, the
court pointed out (p. 634) that undoubtedly if in the grant of
a ferry privilege there were contained provisions repugnant
to the commerce clause, it would be the duty of the court to
prevent their enforcement.
In Wiggins Ferry Company v. East St. Louis, (1882) 107 U. S.
365, the case was this: The ferry company was in the enjoyment of a ferry franchise to operate across the Mfississippi
River between Illinois and Missouri. It was domiciled in
Illinois, that State being the situs of its boats and other property. This property was taxed in Illinois as other property,
and there was also levied upon the company a license tax for
the privilege of -carrying on the ferry, the validity of which
last exaction was the question which the case presented. The
collection of the license charge was resisted on the ground that
the corporation was exempt by the contract arising from the
grant of its franchise from the payment of a license charge,
and that if not, the exaction of the license tax for the privilege
of ferrying across a navigable river lying between two States
was repugnant to the commerce and other clauses of the Constitution of the United States not necessary to be specially
referred to.
After disposing adversely to the corporation of the contention concerning the alleged exemption, the court considered
the application of the commerce clause of the Constitution,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

and decided that proposition against the .corporation. In
doing so the court referred to the passage in the opinion of
Chief Justice Marshall in Gibbons v. Ogden, which we have
already quoted, and also referred approvingly to the opinions
in Conway v. Taylor and Fanning v. Gregoire, supra.
In GloucesterFerryCompanyv. Pennsylvania, (1885) 114 U.S.
196, the facts were these: The ferry company was incorporated
and domiciled in New Jersey, carried on a ferry business over
the Delaware River between Camden, New Jersey, and Philadelphia. The situs of its boats and property were in New
Jersey; but the company owned in Philadelphia a wharf or slip
at which its boats landed. The taxing officers of the State of
Pennsylvania assessed against the corporation, on the ground
that it was doing business within the State, a tax upon the
estimated value of its capital stock, and the validity of this
tax was the question decided. After referring to the reasoning of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania affirming the validity of the tax, in which it was pointed out that the company
did business in the State because it landed in the State of
Pennsylvania, and there in part carried on its ferry business,
the court said (p. 203):
"As to the first reason thus expressed, it may be answered
that the business of landing and receiving passengers and
freight at the wharf in Philadelphia is a necessary incident to,
indeed a part of, their transportation across the Delaware
River from New Jersey. Without it that transportation
would be impossible. Transportation implies the taking up
of persons or property at some point and putting them down
at another. A tax, therefore, upon such receiving and landing of passengers and freight is a tax upon their transportation;
that is, upon the commerce between the two States involved
in such transportation.
"It matters not that the transportation is made in ferry-

boats, which pass between the States every hour of the day.
The means of transportation of persons and freight between
the States does not change the character of the business as one

ST. CLAIR COUNTY v. INTERSTATE TRANSFER CO. 463
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of commerce, nor does the time within which the distance
between the States may be traversed. Commerce among the
States consists of intercourse and traffic between their citizens,
and includes the transportation of persons and property, and
the navigation of public waters for that purpose, as well as the
purchase, sale and exchange of commodities. The power to
regulate that commerce, as well as commerce with foreign
nations, vested in Congress, is the power to prescribe the rules
by which it shall be governed, that is, the conditions upon
which it shall be conducted; to determine when it shall be free
and when subject to duties or other exactions. The power
also embraces within its control all the instrumentalities by
which that commerce may be carried on, and the means by
which it may be aided and encouraged."
After reviewing and applying many prior adjudications of
this court, in which the want of power of the several States to
burthen interstate commerce had been pointed out, in its
various aspects, the court considered the statement of Mr.
Chief Justice Marshall in Gibbons v. Ogden, which we have
previously quoted, and observed (p. 215):
"The power of the States to regulate matters of internal
police includes the establishment of ferries as well as the construction of roads and bridges. In Gibbons v. Ogden, Chief
Justice Marshall said that laws respecting ferries, as well as
inspection laws, quarantine laws, health laws, and laws regulating the internal commerce of the States, are component
parts of an immense mass of legislation, embracing everything
within the limits of a State not surrendered to the general government; but in this language he plainly refers to
ferries entirely within the State, and not to ferries transporting
passengers and freight between the States and a foreign
country."
Although no reference was made in the opinion to Fanning
v. Gregoire, Conway v. Taylor and Wiggins Ferry v. East St.
Louis, in concluding the opinion it was said (p. 217):
"It is true that, from the earliest period in the history of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

government, the States have authorized and regulated ferries,
not only over waters entirely within their limits, but over
waters separating them; and it may be conceded that in many
respects the States can more advantageously manage such
interstate ferries than the general government; and that the
privilege of keeping a ferry, with a right to take toll for passengers and freight, is a franchise grantable by the State, to be
exercised within such limits and under such regulations as
may be required for the safety, comfort and convenience of
the public. Still the fact remains that such a ferry is a means,
and a necessary means, of commercial intercourse between
the States bordering on their dividing waters, and it must,
therefore, be conducted without the imposition by the States
of taxes or other burdens upon the commerce between them.
Freedom from such impositions does not, of course, imply
exemption from reasonable charges, as compensation for the
carriage of persons, in the way of tolls or fares, or from the
ordinary taxation to which other property is subjected, any
more than like freedom of transportation on land implies such
exemption. . . . How conflicting legislation of the two
States on the subject of ferries on waters dividing them is to
be met and treated is not a question before us for consideration. Pennsylvania has never attempted to exercise its power
of establishing and regulating ferries across the Delaware
River. Any one, so far as her laws are concerned, is free, as
we are informed, to establish such ferries as he may choose.
No license fee is exacted from ferry-keepers. She merely
exercises the right to designate the places of landing, as she
does the places of landing for all vessels engaged in commerce.
The question, therefore, respecting the tax in the present case
is not complicated by any action of that State concerning
ferries. However great her power, no legislation on her part
can impose a tax on that portion of interstate commerce which
is involved in the transportation of persons and freight, whatever be the instrumentality by which it is carried on."
The tax imposed by the State of Pennsylvania was decided

ST. CLAIR COUNTY v. INTERSTATE TRANSFER CO. 465
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to be void, as being repugnant to the commerce clause of the
Constitution.
In Covington &c. Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204, a
law of the State of Kentucky regulating the tolls to be charged
by a bridge company operating a bridge across the Ohio River
between Kentucky and Ohio came under review. After an
extended consideration of the previous cases, with one exception, including the cases to which we have previously referred,
it was decided that as the bridge was over a navigable stream
between two States, the power to regulate the tolls thereon
was in Congress, and therefore the State regulation was void.
The position of the parties as to the cases which we have
reviewed is this: The county insists that the statement in
Gibbons v. Ogden, that the establishment of ferries was within
the reserved powers of the States, and the rulings in Fanning
v. Gregoire, Conway v. Taylor and Wiggins Ferry v. East St.
Louis, affirmatively settle that a State may establish ferries
over a navigable river, the boundary between two States, and
license the same, and that doing so is not only not repugnant
to the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States,
but is in consonance therewith, since the power as to ferries
was reserved to the States and not delegated to the national
government. The Gloucester Ferry case, it is said, rested upon
the nature of the particular tax imposed by the State of Pennsylvania, and that the case may hence not be considered as
overruling the previous cases, not only because it did not
expressly refer to them, but also because come expressions
found in the opinion which we have cited are construed as
substantially affirming the right of the State to regulate and
license a ferry like the one here in question. On the other
hand, the corporation urges that the rulings in Fanning v.
Gregoire and Conway v. Taylor proceeded upon a misconception and partial view of the language of Chief Justice Marshall
in Gibbons v. Ogden. That language, it is insisted, when the
sentences are considered which immediately precede the pasVOL. CXCII-30

OCTOBER TERAI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

sage quoted in Fanning v. Gregoire and Conway v. Taylor,
clearly demonstrates that the Chief Justice was referring to the
power of the States to license and control ferries on streams of
a local character, and this, it is said, is demonstrated by the
statement on the subject in the Gloucester Ferry case. The
case of Wiggins Ferryv. East St. Louis, it is argued, proceeded,
not upon the right of the State over the ferry, but upon its
power to tax property whose situs was within its jurisdiction,
and this was the view adopted by the court below. The Gloucester Ferry case, it is urged, did not proceed upon the nature
of the tax, but upon the want of power in the State of Pennsylvania to exert its control over a ferry crossing a river
which was a boundary between two States, so as in effect
to burthen the carrying on of interstate commerce. And that
case, it is further insisted, therefore qualifies, if it does not
specifically overrule, the earlier cases.
We do not think, however, that for the purposes of this case
we need enter into these contentions, because we consider that
in any view which may be taken of the previous cases, each
and all of them are conclusive of this case without reference
to any real or supposed conflict between them.
First. None of the cases, whatever view may be taken of
them, imports power in a State to directly control interstate
commerce. Conceding, arguendo, that the police power of a
State extends to the establishment, regulation and licensing
of ferries on a navigable stream, being the boundary between
two States, none of the cases justifies the proposition that such
power embraces transportation by water across such a river
which does not constitute a ferry in a strict technical sense.
In that sense "a ferry is a continuation of the highway from
one side of the water over which it passes to the other, and is
for transportation of passengers or of travellers with their
teams and vehicles and such other property as they may carry
or have with them." Mayor &c. of New York v. Starin, 106
N. Y. 1, 11; Broadnax v. Baker, 94 N. Car. 675. It proceeds

ST. CLAIR COUNTY v. INTERSTATE TRANSFER CO.467
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

at regular intervals, and, growing out of the local necessities

and the public interest in its operation, is subject to local control, and at common law the exclusive franchise to operate a
ferry within designated limits might be conferred upon a
particular person or persons. In a strict sense the ferry business is confined to the transportation of persons with or without
their property, and a ferryman carrying on only a ferry business
is bound to transport in no other way. Mayor &c. of New
York v. Starin, supra; Wyckoff v. Queens County Ferry Company, 52 N. Y. 32.
Indeed, the essential disti'nction between a ferry in the
restricted and legal signification of that term and transportation as such constituting interstate commerce was pointedly
emphasized in a passage from the opinion in Conway v. Taylor,
supra, which we have previously quoted, and the distinction
between the two was necessarily involved, if it may not be said
to have been controlling, in the decision of that case.
The difference between a ferry in its true sense and transportation of the character of that now under review is shown
in the case of Mayor of New York v. New England Transfer
Company, 14 Blatch. 159. In that case a boat was operated
from Jersey City in New Jersey to Mott Haven in New York,
and from Mott Haven to Jersey City. In this boat, by means
of tracks, railroad cars, both passenger and freight, were run
and carried under contract with the railroad company for the
purpose of further transportation. The contention was that
the operation of this boat constituted the running of a ferry,
and therefore to so operate it required a ferry license from the
proper authority of the city of New York. The court (Shipman, J.), whilst not denying the power of the city of New York
to require a license for a ferry operating over the route in question, held that the use of the boat in the manner specified was
not the operation of a ferry. After pointing out the similarity
between bridges and ferries and directing attention to Bridge
Proprietors v. Hoboken Company, 1 Wall. 116, in which it was

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

held that a mere railroad bridge, utilized for the purpose of
transporting cars across a navigable river, did not infringe an
exclusive right to maintain a bridge for general purposes theretofore granted by state authority, and demonstrating the
identity in principle between the case before it and that case,
said (p. 167):
"The reasoning which denies that a railroad bridge is an
interference with an exclusive right theretofore granted to
build an ordinary bridge, applies with almost equal force to
the question, whether a ferry franchise is interfered with by
a ferry which is designed for the transportation of railroad cars
only. The boat of the defendants is provided with two railroad tracks, which prevent the entrance or egress of ordinary
vehicles, and also of foot passengers, except as they are transported in cars which run upon the railroad tracks. The boat
is exclusively used for the transportation of railroad cars, in
connection only with the arrival of trains. It is impossible to
transport ordinary vehicles upon the boat, it is impracticable
to transport foot passengers, except as they are conveyed to
the boat in cars. The whole arrangement of boat and docks
is for the ingress and egress of railroad cars, and not for the
accommodation of anything else. The ferry is a part of a
continuous through railroad line from places north and east
of the city of New York, to places south and southwest of that
city, and the trips of the boat are dependent upon the arrival
of through railroad trains.
"Such a ferry is unlike an ordinary ferry for the transportation across a river of persons, animals and freight, at intervals
more or less regular, for fare or toll."
Second. As we conclude from the considerations previously
expressed that the transportation of railroad cars-whether
loaded or unloaded-across the Mississippi River at the point
in question was not the maintenance of a ferry in the proper
sense of that term, and that such business was essentially
interstate commerce, the only question remaining for decision

ST. CLAIR COUNTY v. INTERSTATE TRANSFER CO. 469
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is, did the county have the power to require the obtaining of a
license by the company as a prerequisite to the carrying on of
such interstate commerce and to impose the penalties sued
for, because a license had not been obtained? In examining
this question we need not stop to determine how far, if at all,
a State may, under its general police power, require the taking
out of a license for the carrying on of the business of interstate
commerce to the extent necessary to enable the State or its
subdivisions to exercise such supervision as may be required
for the safety of life and property. This results, because even
conceding, arguendo, such power, we think it clear that such
conditions were attached to the obtaining of a license in this
case as relieved the company from the duty of complying with
the requirements of the ,law under which liability is here asserted. That liability is contained in chapter 55 of the Revised Laws of Illinois, in force in 1874. By this law authority
was conferred upon the county to grant a ferry license, and
it was made the duty of a person or corporation desiring to
carry on a ferry to make application for such license. But
power was conferred upon the county to withhold the grant
of a license in a particular case if deemed best, and to grant it,
preferably, to a citizen of the State of Illinois; and the acceptance of the license imposed the absolute obligation upon the
applicant to carry on a technical ferry business, to operate at
designated hours during the day and during the entire night.
In other words, the law under which license was required not
only subjected the applicant for the license to discriminatory
provisions, but in addition compelled the licensee, if he desired
to carry on a purely interstate commerce business, to conduct
a general ferry business. However valid these conditions may
be when applied to a ferry business in the restricted sense,
under the assumption which we have indulged in, arguendo,
that the State had the power to regulate a ferry upon a navigable stream forming the boundary between two States, it is
obvious that the conditions to which we have alluded were

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

192 U. S.

illegal because a direct burden upon interstate commerce, was
made a condition precedent to the doing of business of that
character.
Because we have, arguendo, rested our conclusion in this
case upon the assumption that the respective States have the
power to regulate ferries over navigable rivers constituting
boundaries between States, we must not be understood as
deciding that that doctrine, which undoubtedly finds support
in the opinions announced in Fanning v. Gregoire and Conway
v. Taylor, has not been modified by the rule subsequently laid
down in the Gloucester Ferry case and the Covington Bridge
case. As this case has not required us to enter into those
considerations we have not done so.
Affirmed.

BUTTFIELD v. STRANAHAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORE.

No. 294. Argued January 4, 1904.-Decided February23, 1904.

Every intendment is in favor of the validity of a statute and it must be presumed to be constitutional unless its repugnancy to the Constitution
clearly appears.
The power of Congress to regulate foreign commerce, being an enumerated
power, is complete in itself, acknowledging no limitations other than those
prescribed in the Constitution, and Congress can, without violating the
due process clause, establish standards and provide from considerations of
public policy that no right shall exist to import an article of food not
equal thereto. No individual has a vested right to trade with foreign
nations superior to the power of Congress to determine what, and upon
what terms, articles may be imported into the United States.

Where a statute acts on a subject as far as practicable and only leaves to
executive officials the duty of bringing about the result pointed out, and

