OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

the amount due upon each judgment and to engraft upon the
judgments a limitation to a single satisfaction out of a specific
fund. In its petition the railroad company expressly alleged
its inability to determine whether the Illinois or the Missouri
judgment possessed a priority of right to payment out of the
so-called fund. Clearly, also, even the owner and holder of
the Illinois judgment could not, in reason, contend that the
judgment of the Missouri court complained of had the effect
of denying full faith and credit to the judgment of a sister
State. As the settled rule in this court is that where the
Federal question asserted to be contained in a record is manifestly lacking all color of merit, the writ of error must be dismissed, Swafford v. Templeton, 185 U. S. 487, 493, and cases
cited, it results that the writ or error in this case must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Writ of errordismissed.

BENZIGER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SECOND
No. 54.

CIRCUIT.

Argued December 10, 11, 1903.-Decided January 4,1904.

Paragraph 649 of the Tariff Act of 1897, providing for the free entry of
"casts of sculpture when specially imported in good faith for the use
and by the order of any society incorporated or established solely for
religious [or other specified] purposes, should be liberally construed, and
any fair doubts as to its true construction should be resolved by the
courts, in favor of the importer. Figures known and correctly described
as "casts of sculpture," imported in accordance with this provision of
the statute, held to be entitled to free entry thereunder notwithstanding
the fact that similar articles were described by certain manufacturers in
trade catalogues as statuary or composition statues.
CERTAIN figures representing various saints, and also two
figures of adoring angels, as specified in the collector's letter
to the board of general appraisers, were, in March, 1899, spe-

BENZIGER 'v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

cially imported into the port of New York in good faith, for
the use and by the order of societies incorporated or established solely for religious purposes. The importers claimed
the figures were entitled to free entry under paragraph 649 of
the tariff act of 1897. 30 Stat. 151, 201. The appraiser returned them as "church statues, composed of plaster of Paris,
decorated," or as "articles and wares composed wholly or in
chief value of earthy or mineral substances, not specially provided for," and the collector assessed upon them a duty of
45 and 35 per cent ad valorem under paragraphs 97 and 450
of the same act (pages 156, 193). If dutiable, no question is
made as to the correctness of the decision of the collector in
assessing the duties as he did. The contention is that these
figures were "specially provided for" in this act under the
paragraph above mentioned, 649.
The importers protested against the decision of the collector
and the case went to the board of general appraisers. Testimony was taken by the board and it found as a fact the manner in which the figures were made, which was as follows:
"The clay model of the subject, of desired size, is covered
by a workman with a coating some two inches thick of plaster
of Paris. When this coating has 'set' or hardened sufficiently,
the clay figure inside is broken up and removed, and a plaster
of Paris mould thereof thus obtained. Plaster is then carefully forced into this mould, and when dry is taken out in the
form of the original clay figure. This plaster figure, after
having been carefully gone over by an artist or skilled workman to cure any defects in the moulding, is in turn thoroughly
covered with specially prepared plaster for the final mould.
This is made in sections, which when dry are removed, and
together form a perfect mould, and this composite mould
becomes the manufacturer's substitute for the artist's clay or
plaster cast model from which he (the manufacturer) produces
his moulded statues in unlimited numbers. In the moulding
process the several sections of the mould are in turn laid with
the concave side upward, -and have a lining of 'carton pierre,'

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Petitioners.

192 U. S.

one-half inch or more inthickness, carefully laid and pressed
into them by the moulder's hands with the aid of suitable
tools. The extended arms, fingers and other slender parts
are strengthened by pieces of iron wire laid in the 'carton
pierre,' which is then lined either with heavy paper or coarse
woven vegetable fiber cloth secured with glue. After the 'carton pierre' has dried sufficiently, the several sections of the
mould are removed and their contents joined together around a
framework of wood, and a figure is thus formed, the counterpart of the original model. The statue then goes to a skilled
workman called a 'finisher,' who, with knife or other instrument, removes any roughness resulting from the joining of the
sections, cures any other defects in the moulding, and smooths
it down generally. It is then passed to the painter and decorator, who completes it in the style desired. The statdes in
'carton romain' and in 'stone composition' are made in the
same manner, except that the latter are uniformly lined with
coarse cloth. The stations of the cross in 'carton pierre' and
in terra cotta are produced in substantially the same way
(those in terra cotta, however, being kiln dried or baked after
moulding), and are painted and decorated in quite the same
manner as the statues, the foreground and other landscape or
perspective effects being painted in suitable tints or hues."
The protest was overruled by the board, and a petition for
a review was duly filed by the importers (petitioners) and the
case heard in the Circuit Court, Southern District of New York,
and that court affirmed the decision of the board. 107 Fed.
Rep. 257. An appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals, where the decision of the Circuit Court was affirmed on
the opinion of the court below. Upon petition of the importers a writ of certiorari was issued from this court and the
case brought here for review.
Mr. W. Wickham Smith, with whom Mr. Charles Curie was
on the brief, for petitioners:
The testimony upon which the board of appraisers appar-

BENZIGER
192 U. S.

ic.

UNITED STATES.

Argument for Petitioners.

ently based the finding that these articles were known in commerce as statuary or church statuary is not sufficient upon
which to establish a commercial designation. Maddock v.
Magone, 152 U. S. 368; Sonn v. Magone, 159 U. S. 417.
It is, however, of no consequence how these articles are
specifically known in commerce, there being no provision in
the law for church statuary, or for any cast statuary at all,
and if they are casts of sculpture within the meaning of the
law, it is of no consequence whether they have or have not
been known as church statuary.
The finding that these articles have been known in art as
church statuary is based on no evidence whatever.
The importers rely in this case on the well established principle of law repeatedly applied to the construction of statutes,
and particularly to revenue statutes, and recognized by this
court and the subordinate Federal courts in a multitude of
decisions, that where language used in a former tariff act has
received a uniform and consistent interpretation by the department of the Government charged with the execution of
the law (in this case the Treasury Department) and Congress
in framing new legislation repeats the language of the prior
act, it will, in the absence of some more controlling consideration, be presumed to have used the language in the meaning
and charged with the construction which has been given to it
by the executive department. Schell v. Fauche, 138 U. S. 572;
Robertson v. Bradbury, 132 U. S. 493; Robertson v. Downing,
127 U. S. 613; United States v. Dean Linseed Oil Co., 87 Fed.
Rep. 456; Anglo-California Bank v. Sec'y of the Treasury, 76
Fed Rep. 750; United States v. Wotten, 50 Fed. Rep. 694;
United States v. Johnston, 134 U. S. 236; Bate Refg. Co. v.
Sulzburger, 157 U. S. 1; United States v. Hill, 120 U. S. 169;
United States v. Philbrick, 120 U. S. 52; Butterworth v. United
States, 112 U. S. 67; Five per cent. cases, 110 U. S. 484; Hahn
v. United States, 107 U. S. 406; S. S. 7274, December 22, 1885,
S. S. 11747, 1891.
Casts imported for educational societies have been free since

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

1816, those for churches 1861 to 1870 and from 1883 to the
present time.
The policy of according free admission to articles imported
for churches is one which should be approved by the courts,
and the tendency of judicial decisions should be to give such
provisions a liberal interpretation, and not restrict their application by imposing qualifications and limitations which
Congress, after having had its attention called to the matter,
has seen fit not to impose.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General McReynolds for the United
States:
For definition of statue, cast, sculpture, see Century, Standard
and Webster's International Dictionaries. The provisions in
the former tariff statues have been construed in S. S. No. 5549;
No. 7274; No. 11747; No. 13936. See also Tutton v. Viti, 108
U. S. 312; Merritt v. Tiffany, 132 U. S. 167. Congress must
be understood to use the word in its known commercial sense.
200 Chests of Tea, 9 Wheat. 430; Lutz v. Magone, 153 U. S. 107;
United States v. Buffalo Gas Fuel Co., 172 U. S. 341.
Mn. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The petitioners claim that the figures in question here are
entitled to free entry under the provision of paragraph 649 of
the tariff act of 1897, 30 Stat. 151, 201, as being "casts of
sculpture, where specially imported in good faith for the use
and by the order of any society incorporated or established
solely for religious, philosophical, scientific, educational or
literary purposes," etc. The board of appraisers thought that
on July 24, 1897, the day of the passage of the tariff act, and
for many years prior thereto, those figures belonged to a class
which was known in commerce, in art and to the classifying
officers of customs of the United States as "statuary," and
specifically as "church statuary." In the opinion of the board
it was stated:

BENZIGER v. UNITEI) STATES.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"It is the practice of professional sculptors to have their
original creations in clay reproduced in plaster of Paris for
permanent use as models from which the objects are sculptured
in marble, stone or other material. The sculptor invariably
goes over his plaster cast with utmost" care, not only repairing
any defects in the moulding, but defining more accurately the
hair, finger nails, folds of the drapery and outline generally,
and, above all, perfecting the facial and general expression.
These plaster of Paris models are known in commerce and in
art as 'casts of sculpture.' They represent the artist's right
and title to his creation, and unlike the merchandise in question.
here, are not painted and decorated, nor dealt in as ordinary
commercial articles. Casts in plaster of Paris are likewise
produced from rare objects of sculpture, generally for use in
museums or art institutions, but sometimes for reproduction
by sculptors in marble, stone, etc., and are also called 'casts
of sculpture,' but are in strict sense 'casts from sculpture,'
being cast from plaster of Paris from sculptural objects, such,
for example, as the high relief frieze of the Parthenon at
Athens, the facade of the guild of the Butchers house at Hildesheim, the tomb of Englebert, and other works in the Metropolitan Museum of Art mentioned in the testimony of Messrs.
Stoltzenberg and Trueg."
The board was of opinion that these figures were what is
known in commerce, in art and in common speech as "statuary," and were not "specimens or casts of sculpture," and
were therefore assessed, as stated.
If these figures were to be entered as statuary, they would
come in free under paragraph 649 of the act of 1897, but for
the limitation contained in paragraph 454, which limits the
term "statuary," as used in the act, so as to "include only
such statuary as is cut, carved or otherwise wrought by hand
from a solid block of marble, stone, alabaster or other metal,
and is the professional production of a statuary or sculptor
only." The Circuit Court did not regard it necessary in the
disposition of the case to determine whether these particular

OCTOBER TERAI,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

figures would come in free as casts of sculpture under paragraph 649, if imported in the crude state, but held that as the
figures had been painted and gilded, they were not thereafter
casts of sculpture within the meaning of the act.
Upon the argument of this case at bar frequent reference
was made by counsel to the provisions in former tariff acts
upon this subject, as bearing upon the proper construction of
the one under consideration. For convenience these provisions are reproduced in the margin as they existed in the act
of 1861, 12 Stat. 178, 193; the Revised Statutes, sec. 2505,
pp. 482, 487, 488; the act of 1883, 22 Stat. 488, 513, 520; the
act of 1890, 26 Stat. 567, 608, 609; the act of 1894, 28 Stat.
509, 543, 544; and in the present act of 1897, 30 Stat. 151, 201.'
of March 2, 1861, Sec. 23. (12 Stat. 178.)
All philosophical apparatus, instruments, books, maps and
charts, statues, statuary, busts and casts of marble, bronze, alabaster, or
plaster of Paris; paintings and drawings, etchings, specimens of sculpture,
cabinets of coins, medals, regalia, gems, and all collections of antiquities:
Provided, The same be specially imported in good faith, for the use of any
society incorporated or established for philosophical, literary, or religious
by the
purposes, or for the encouragement of the fine arts, or for the use or
order of any college, academy, school, or seminary of learning in the United
States."

1Act

c

.

Revised Statutes of 1874, Sec. 2505, Paragraphs 1708 and 1726, pp. 482, 487,
488. (16 Stat. 256, 268.)
1708. "Philosophical and scientific apparatus, instruments, and preparapainttions, statuary, casts of marble, bronze, alabaster or plaster of Paris,
the use
ings, drawings, and etchings, specially imported in good faith, for
of any society or institution incorporated or established for philosophical,
fine
educational, scientific or literary purposes, or encouragement of the
arts, and not intended for sale."
1726. "Regalia and gems, and statues and specimens of sculpture, where
or
specially imported, in good faith, for the use of any society incorporated
enestablished for philosophical, literary or religious purposes, or for the
couragement of the fine arts, or for the use or by the order of any college,
academy, school or seminary of learning in the United States."
Act of March 3, 1883. (22 Stat. c. 121, pp. 488, 513, 520.)
(P. 513.) "Paintings, in oil or water colors, and statuary not otherwise
as
provided for, thirty per centum ad valorem. But the term 'statuary,'
shall
used in the laws now in force imposing duties on foreign importations,

BENZIGER v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

An examination of the provisions of the various statutes
shows a somewhat uniform purpose on the part of Congress
to provide free entry to casts of marble, bronze, alabaster or
plaster of Paris, and also statuary and specimens of sculpture,
when specially imported in good faith for the societies enumerated in the acts. It is also seen that under the language
used in these different paragraphs, which may be described as
the "philosophical and scientific," and the "regalia and gems"
be understood to include professional productions of a statuary or of a
sculptor only."
(P. 520.) (Free list.) Par. 759. "Philosophical and scientific apparatus,
instruments, and preparations, statuary, casts of marble, bronze, alabaster,
or plaster of Paris, paintings, drawings, and etchings, specially imported
in good faith for the use of any society or institution incorporated or established for religious, philosophical, educational, scientific, or literary purppses, or encouragement of the fine arts, and not intended for sale."
(P. 520.) (Free list.) Par. 771. "Regalia and gems, statues, statuary, and
specimens of sculpture, where specially imported in good faith for the use
of any society incorporated or established for philosophical, literary, or
religious purposes.
Act of October 1, 1890. (26 Stat. c. 1244, pp. 567, 602, 608, 609.)
(P. 602.) Par. 465. "Paintings, in oil or water colors, and statuary, not
otherwise provided for in this act, fifteen per centum ad valorem; but the
term 'statuary,' as herein used, shall be understood to include only such
statuary as is cut, carved or otherwise wrought by hand from a solid block
or mass of marble, stone, or alabaster, or from metal, and as is the professional production of a statuary or sculptor only."
(P. 608.) (Free list.) Par. 677. "Philosophical and scientific apparatus,
instruients and preparations; statuary, casts of marble, bronze, alabaster,
or plaster of Paris; paintings, drawings, and etchings, specially imported in
good faith for the use of any society or institution incorporated or established for religious, philosophical, educational, scientific, or literary purposes,
or for encouragement of the fine arts, and not intended for sale."
(P. 609.) (Free list.) Par. 692. "Regalia and gems, statues, statuary and
specimens of sculpture, where specially imported in good faith for the use
of any.society incorporated or established solely for educational, philosophi"
cal, literary, or religious purposes.
Act of August 27, 1894. (28 Stat. c. 349, pp. 509, 542, 543, 544.)
(P. 542.) (Free list.) Par. 575. "Paintings, . . . and statuary, not
otherwise provided for in this act, but the term 'statuary' as herein used
shall be understood to include only professional productions, whether round

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

paragraphs, some article might be admitted under either
paragraph. There is no doubt that under the tariff acts
prior to that of 1897, these figures could have been admitted
free of duty, as "casts of plaster of Paris." Indeed, the Treasury Department had so decided in a case hereafter cited.
Those words, "casts of marble, bronze, alabaster, or plaster
of Paris," which appear in all the statutes cited prior to 1897,
in the philosophical apparatus paragraphs, are left out in the
or in relief, in marble, stone, alabaster, wood, or metal, of a statuary or
.
sculptor.
(P. 543.) (Free list.) Par. 585. "Philosophical and scientific apparatus,
. . . statuary, casts of marble, bronze, alabaster, or plaster of Paris,
paintings, drawings, and etchings, specially imported in good faith for the
use of any society or institution incorporated or established for religious,
philosophical, educational, scientific, or literary purposes, or for encouragement of the fine arts, and not intended for sale."
(P. 544.) (Free list.) Par. 603. "Regalia and gems, statues, statuary and
specimens or casts of sculpture, where specially imported in good faith for
the use of any society incorporated or established solely for educational,
philosophical, literary, or religious purposes. .
Act of July 24, 1897, (the present act). (30 Stat. c. 11, pp. 151, 194, 200,
201.)
. and statuary, not especially
.
.
(P. 194.) Par. 454. "Paintings,
provided for in this act, twenty per centum ad valorem; but the term
'statuary' as used in this act shall be understood to include only such
statuary as is cut, carved or otherwise wrought by hand from a solid block
or mass of marble, stone or alabaster, or from metal, and as is the professional production of a statuary or sculptor only."
(P. 200.) (Free list.) Par. 638. "Philosophical and scientific apparatus,
utensils, instruments, and preparations, including bottles and boxes containing the same, specially imported in good faith for the use and by order
of any society or institution incorporated or established solely for religious,
philosophical, educational, scientific, or literary purposes, or for the encouragement of the fine arts, or for the use or by order of any college,
academy, school or seminary of learning in the United States, or any State
or public library, and not for sale, subject to such regulations as the. Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe."
(P. 201.) (Free list.) Par. 649. "Regalia and gems, statuary, and specimens or casts of sculpture, where specially imported in good faith for the
use and by order of any society incorporated or established solely for religious, philosophical, educational, scientific, or literary purposes, or for the
.
encouragement of the fine arts, . . . and not for sale.

BENZIGER v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

act of 1897, paragraph 638, and it is therefore urged that the
figures are not entitled to free entry, as they are not casts of
sculpture, provided for in paragraph 649. The question is,
therefore, whether the omission of those words in paragraph 638 prevents the free entry of these figures, or are they
properly described as casts of sculpture, and therefore entitled
to free entry under paragraph 649.
We do not attach any very great importance, as evidence
of the intention of Congress, to the omission in the act of 1897
above referred to. The language used in paragraph 649 is
very broad, including all casts of sculpture, as well those
heretofore mentioned in paragraphs in prior statutes similar
to paragraph 638 as others. The omission in the latter paragraph was, therefore, immaterial if these figures are casts of
sculpture. Although they might heretofore have come in under the designation of "casts of plaster of Paris" as contained
in former paragraphs,.we think they also might have come in
under the designation "casts of sculpture" contained in the
act of 1894 as well as in the act of 1897, and that it was not
intended by Congress, in omitting the words in the latter act
as to casts of plaster of Paris, in paragraph 638, to prevent
their free entry under paragraph 649. The language in paragraph 638 was simply unnecessary in a case where the same
articles were entitled to free entry under another paragraph.
In attempting to understand the true construction of the
words used in the act of 1897 we are not very greatly aided by
the opinions given by various artists called by the government
and contained in this record, as to what was the proper designation of the figures. These opinions varied, although based
upon conceded facts as to the manner and process by which
the figures were produced. According to some of them there
were but two kinds of "casts of sculpture;" one where professional sculptors have their own original creations of clay reproduced in plaster of Paris for permanent use as models and
from which objects are sculptured in marble, stone or other
inaterial; and the other, where casts in plaster of Paris are

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

produced from rare objects of sculpture, generally for use in
Some regarded the term "sculpmuseums or art institutes.
ture so wide that it was difficult to define definitely," although
they thought that the figures in question were not casts of
sculpture, while some regarded casts of sculpture "as such
classes of plaster casts or clay or marble or bronze as are to
stand singly and alone, and not be sold in endless numbers, and
to be exhibited temporarily in some exhibition." We think
the last definition is inaccurate and inadmissible. Under this
view, whether a figure is a cast of sculpture or not, does not in
the least depend upon how it is made. It is the use to which
it is destined which is to determine what it is in fact. If there
are to be a great many of them, to be "sold in endless numbers," they are not casts of sculpture, no matter how they are
made, and if they are to "stand singly" and "be exhibited
temporarily," then they are such casts. We are not satisfied
as to the correctness or completeness of this definition.
Whether in one case the cast is for the use of the sculpture
only or in the other is destined to be reproduced indefinitely,
we think is not material. They are made in the same manner,
reproduced from clay, and the same means or process is taken
or employed in obtaining the result. Whether the clay model
is the work of the superior genius of a great sculptor or is the
result of the efforts of one who could not be classed as a genius
at all, they are both fashioned in the same way and the same
process is followed with regard to both, and we do not think
that in this statute there was any intention to confine the
meaning to casts of those clay figures which were fashioned
by the hand of genius, while excluding those of inferior artists
or workmen. The witnesses are not, however, all of one mind,
even upon the meaning of the term. Some thought that these
were casts of sculpture in a certain sense as long as they remained simply plaster casts, but just as soon as additional
touches were given to the casts, in the way of paint or ornamentation, the casts lost their original character as plaster
casts and became statuary in wood or alabaster or bronze.

BENZIGER u. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

At any rate, it would cease to be an article of clay and would
become a finished thing. Just as soon as a cast of sculpture
was painted it would in the opinion of some of the witnesses
cease to be a cast of sculpture.
Some of the artists said that you might take a cast of old
sculpture, such as the Venus de Milo, and different antiques
and reproduce them in plaster, and they would be casts of
old sculpture. But whether the figures in question here were
casts of sculpture, some of the witnesses were not sure.
One witness for the government gave as his opinion that the
figures in question were casts or specimens because they are
sculpture. As to whether they were cast or moulded, he
replied that he could not state definitely, but presumably
they were casts.
Another witness for the government was not willing to swear
that the figures were not casts of sculpture, while still another
said that in his judgment the figures in question were plaster
casts in sculpture. He also thought that they might be termed
casts of sculpture. Another witness for the government
thought they might be called casts of bad sculpture, and that
they were such articles as he had heard artists call casts of
sculpture.
This brief review of some of the evidence shows the difference of opinion among the artists themselves as to what would
come within their understanding of the definition of the term
"casts of sculpture." The artists evidently had a contempt
for the figures as specimens of art, and very probably that
contempt was well founded; but, as we have said, the opinions
really give no aid in considering whether the figures are or are
not casts of sculpture. The description of the manner in which
they are made, as set forth in the foregoing statement of facts,
and also the evidence of the witnesses for the government,
showing the unity of the method and process with that followed
in the case of an admitted cast of sculpture, furnish us better
means of determining the question in dispute than may be
found in the opinions set forth in the record, and yet some of
VOL. cxcir-4

OCTOBER TERMI,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

the witnesses do in fact, as we have seen, admit that the figures
are casts of sculpture, bad though they may be.
The government also examined one or two witnesses who
were agents or salesmen for manufacturers in this country of
what they stated to be substantially the same class of figures
as the ones under discussion, and in their catalogues describing
the various articles for sale, figures such as these were generally
designated as "statuary," and when taking orders for such
goods they were called "statuary" or "composition statues."
One of the customs examiners also testified that for the last
few years articles of the nature here in question had been
returned on invoices to the collector as "church statuary
composed of plaster, decorated, or pulverized cement and
plaster." The witness used the expression "church statuary
composed of" as having been given him by some superior
officer, and it was accepted by him as such.
It will be observed that there is nothing in the tariff act
which speaks of "church statuary" by name. We are not
satisfied from this evidence that these figures are not casts of
sculpture within the meaning of the statute, nor. are we impressed with the statement of some of the witnesses that if in
what is termed their crude state these figures might or would
be described as casts of sculpture, they would cease to be such
when painted or decorated. They are still, in substance, the
same thing, whether painted or not. How does the mere
4 Some little
gilding or painting alter their original character
value has perhaps been added to them, but they yet remain
what they were before the painting was done. Painting a
marble statue does not alter its original substance, or give the
subject a new definition or meaning. Some marble statues,
the work of a great sculptor, have been slightly painted under
his own direction for the purpose, as supposed, of imparting a
amore lifelike appearance to the statue, and of possibly thereby
enhancing its value. But the statue remained a statue nevertheless.
It is so, as we think, in this case. The painting or gilding

BENZIGER v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was done to render the figures more fit for the only purpose
of their importation-that is, for use in a religious society.
And it was the object, as we believe, of the statute to admit
such works free of duty.
In case No. 5549, Synopsis of Decisions of the Treasury
Department, 1883, p. 41, it was said that the case related to
certain images made of earthen substances which on importation were subjected to duty at the rate of forty per centum
ad valorem, but were claimed in the protest filed to be dutiable
at the rate of ten per centum ad valorem, under the provisions
for "statuary" contained in schedule M, Revised Statutes,
p. 478, under heading "Paintings and Statuary;" the word
"statuary," being defined as limited "to include professional
productions of a statuary, or of a sculptor only." It appeared
on the trial that the images were made at Munich by persons
who professed to have made a study of the art of sculpture for
many years and who acted under the general supervision of an
acknowledged sculptor. Several copies were made from one
model, and in ordering them the importer designated which
he wanted by the number of the article in a catalogue, and
the price of the images varied from five to a hundred dollars.
The Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York
held that the articles were entitled to admission as statuary
under the provision above mentioned, and the department
acquiesced in the opinion of the court. In that case the department was of opinion that the works were obviously made
by skillful men, and might come in even under the limitation
of the word "statuary" as defined in the act.
It cannot be and is not claimed that the figures in question
here could come in under the term "statuary," as that term
is defined in the statute of 1897, paragraph 454, which is much
more narrow than that of the Revised Statutes. The case
shows, however, the tendency of the department to a liberal
construction of the tariff act in this regard.
On December 22, 1885, Synopsis of Decisions of the Treasury
Department, 1885, p. 513, No. 7274, the question was sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

mitted as to whether figures similar to those under consideration were entitled to free admission under the act of 1883.
The department held that they could not be regarded as
"statuary" because of the limitation of the meaning of the
word "statuary," as used in that act, 22 Stat. 513, which provided that the word "statuary" "should be understood to
include professional productions of a statuary or of a sculptor
only," but that they might be admitted as casts of plaster of
Paris under paragraph 759 of the free list. Paragraph 771
did not contain the words "casts of sculpture."
In Synopsis of Decisions, Treasury Department, July to
December, 1891, vol. 2, p. 1164, there is contained a reply to
the naval officer of New York, relative to the proper classification of certain figures imported and claimed to be free of duty
as statuary or as casts of plaster of Paris, imported for a church
under paragraph 677, or as statues, statuary or specimens of
sculpture, under paragraph 692 of the tariff act of 1890. The
Acting Secretary referred to the fact that the board of general
appraisers had held that the restrictive definition in regard to
"statuary" under paragraph 465 did not apply to such statuary
as is specified in the free list. The language of that paragraph
(465) the board held limited its definition of the term "statuary" to that paragraph alone. Continuing, the Secretary said:
"The department believes that the crude or inartistic character of the figures under consideration cannot be urged as a
reason for their exclusion from the benefits of free entry. It
is fair to infer a liberal intention on the part of Congress from
the fact of its inclusion of religious institutions among those
to which the privilege of free entry is extended. Religious
institutions are not schools of art, nor can congregations without adequate means always consult esthetic rules in regard to
the equipment of their churches. It is the sentiment of pious
associations which gives the figure its efficiency as an aid to
religious worship, and the plaster cast may in this way be as
serviceable to the humble worshiper as the more costly work
of genius."

BENZIGER v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The subject was again before the Treasury Department on
April 26, 1893. Synopsis of Decisions, Treasury Department,
1893, p. 340. As appears upon its face the letter of the Secretary was in reply to a communication from the board of general appraisers, protesting against the free entry of articles of
this nature under the act of 1890, because of the advantages
thus given to the foreign dealers in these figures, some of whom
had a store in Montreal, although the figures were manufactured
in Munich, and the order was supplied from the Montreal store,
and the board insisted that the figures were not entitled to such
entry by the true construction of the statute. The Secretary,
in reply, referred to what the board stated to have been the
evident intention of Congress in the act that the "objects
exempted from duty should be of such high order as to inspire
admiration and devotional feeling," etc., and held that the
views of the board might "apply to paragraph 692 and 465,
but not to paragraph 677, which provides (with the restriction
enumerated in paragraph 465 and implied in paragraph 692)
for the exemption from duty of all casts of plaster of Paris
imported in good faith for the use of any society or institution
incorporated or established for religious purposes."
It was further stated that "the department cannot interpret
the provisions of paragraph 677 as establishing in any respect
the esthetic standard for such importations, and without discussing the propriety of such standard must administer the
law according to its apparent intent." Also: "Under the last
named paragraph (677) it would appear that any plaster cast
which should be regarded by a religious society as a desirable
acquisition, and shall be classified by the collector as coming
within the terms of that paragraph, may be imported free of
all duty without regard to its artistic character."
Looking at the various provisions in the tariff statutes,
from and including 1861 to and including that of 1897, and
taking into consideration the evidence in the record in this
case, together with the action of the Treasury Department,
as above referred to, the answer to the question of what is the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

true meaning or construction of the words "casts of sculpture,"
as used in the statute of 1897, is not perfectly clear. Some
fair reason might, perhaps, be given for a construction which
refuses free entry to these figures, but we think that the purpose of Congress was to permit their introduction free of duty
as casts of sculpture, when specially imported in good faith for
the use and by the order of any of the institutions named in
the act. The paragraph in question (649) makes it necessary
not only that the casts of sculpture should be specially imported in good faith for the use of a society, but it must be so
imported by the order of such society. Here for the first time
it is made necessary that the importation must have been by
order of the society, which words are a still further limitation
of the conditions upon the existence of which free entry is
permitted.
It may well be that when the act of 1897 was drawn, its
framers had in mind the objections above mentioned, made by
the board of general appraisers, and therefore further limited
the right of free entry to a special importation in good faith
for the use and by order of the society, and to that extent protecting the interests of the "regular importers who sell from
stock," while at the same time recognizing the policy of permitting a free entry to those societies which in good faith
ordered the articles for their own special use.
We are of opinion that the evidence does not justify the
assertion that the articles in question were simply known in a
commercial sense as "statuary " or "church statuary." The
fact that figures of this nature were designated as statuary in
a catalogue of a manufacturer in this country does not clearly
or conclusively establish such commercial designation. They
were also designated composition statues by the salesman
when taking orders for them. If the articles were also known
as "casts of sculpture," and such language correctly described
them, then they would come within the statute, although some
manufacturers in this country should, for purposes of a short
and easy description, describe them in the catalogue as "stat-

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-OABLE CO. v. NEW HOPE.
192 U. S.

55

Syllabus.

uary," or "composition statues." It seems to us they answer
the description of casts of sculpture and are properly described
as such in the act.
This provision of the statute should be liberally construed
in favor of the importer, and if there were any fair doubt as to
the true construction of the provision in question the courts
should resolve the doubt in his favor. American Net & Twine
Company v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468; United States v. Wigglesworth, 2 Story, 369; Rice v. United States, 53 Fed. Rep. 910.
The judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second

Circuit and of the Circuit Court in the Southern District of
New York are reversed, with directions to the Circuit Court to
reverse the decision of the board of general appraisers and of
the collector, and to direct the collector to admit the figures
to free entry.
So ordered.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE CO v. NEW HOPE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 92. Argued December 11, 1903.-Decided January 4, 19&4

In an action against a telegraph company doing an interstate business for
license fees taxed by a borough in Pennsylvania under an ordinance
fixing the amount of the tax per pole and per mile of wire, the court held
that while the question of reasonableness of the tax was one for the
court he would submit it to the jury for their aid and as advisory only,
directing them to find for the plaintiff if they regarded the amount as
reasoniable and for the defendant if they regarded it as unreasonable;
the jury found a verdict for plaintiff for an amount less than that fixed
by the ordinance and the court directed judgment to be entered thereon
for the amount so found.
Held that if the amount of the license fee fixed by the ordinance was not
reasonable the ordinance was void and neither the court nor the jury
could fix any other amount.
Held that a verdict for an amount less than that fixed by the ordinance,
and the order of the court to enter judgment thereon for the amount so
found, amounted to a finding by the jury and the court that the ordinance was not reasonable and the verdict and judgment should have
been for defendant.

