OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

held that mandamus to the Commissioner, not appeal to the
Court of Appeals of the District, was the proper remedy. It
follows, therefore, that the rule to show cause should be discharged and the petition be dismissed, and it is
So ordered.

CENTRAL STOCK YARDS COMPANY v. LOUISVILLE
& NASHVILLE RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FRO

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE SIXTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 149. Argued January 28, 29,1904.-Decided February 23,1904.

Neither the act of Congress of February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, nor section 213 or other provisions in the constitution of the State of Kentucky
imposes an obligation upon a railroad having its own stockyards in Louisville under a ]ease from a stockyard company, to accept live stock from
other states for delivery at the stockyards of another railroad in the same
city and neighborhood, although there is a physical connection between
the two roads.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Xr. Joseph C. -Dodd and Mr. Tin. -D. WVashburn, with
whom Xr. T . -Dodd and Xr. I. X!. Smith were on the
brief, for appellant.
Xr. Helm Bruce, with whom XArf.Charles N. Burch and
ir. Ed. Baxter were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLmEs

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a decree of the Circuit Court which dismissed
the plaintiff's bill. 118 Fed. Rep. 113. The bill was brought
by the appellant, a Delaware corporation, against a Kentucky
corporation, to compel it to receive live stock tendered to it
outside the State of Kentucky for the Central Stock Yards

CENTRAL STOCK YARDS v. LOUISVILLE &c. RY. CO. 569
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

station, and to deliver the same at a point of physical connection between its road and the Southern Railway, for ultimate
delivery to or at the Central Stock Yards. The Central Stock
Yards station is at the Central Stock Yards, just outside the
boundary line of Louisville, Kentucky, on the Southern Railway Company's line, and by agreement between the two companies the Central Stock Yards are the "live stock depot for
the purpose of handling live stock to and from Louisville" on
the Southern Railway. The defendant, by a similar arrangement, has made the Bourbon Stock Yards its live stock depot
for Louisville, and declines to receive live stock billed to the
Central Stock Yards, or to deliver live stock destined to Louisville elsewhere than at the Bourbon yards. There are physical
connections between the Louisville and Nashville and the
Southern tracks at a point between the two stock yards, which
is passed by the greater portion of the live stock carried by
the Louisville and Nashville Company, and at another point
which would be more convenient for delivery a little further
to the northward. The details are unimportant, except that
in order to deliver, as prayed, the defendant would be compelled either to build chutes or to hand over its cars to the
Southern Railroad, after having made some contract for their
return. The right is claimed by the plaintiff, under the Interstate Commerce Act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, § 3, 24
Stat. 379, making it unlawful for common carriers subject to
the act to give unreasonable preferences, and requiring them
to afford all reasonable, proper and equal facilities for the interchange of traffic between their respective lines, and for the
receiving, forwarding and delivering of property to and from
their several lines and those connecting therewith. The right
is claimed also under the Constitution of Kentucky, especially
§ 213, requiring Kentucky railroad companies to receive, deliver, transfer and transport freight from and to any point
where there is a physical connection between the tracks, as we
understand it, of the railroad concerned and any other.
For the purposes of decision we assume, without expressing
an opinion, that if the Act of Congress and the Kentucky
Constitution apply to the case they both confer rights upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

the plaintiff. As to the former compare §§ 8, 9, and the act
of February 19, 1903, c. 708, § 2, 32 Stat. 84.7, 848, Covington
Stock- Yards Co. v. .eith, 139 13. S. 128; Kentucky & Indiana Bridge Co. v. Louisville & Nfashville R?. 1., 37 Fed.
Rep. 567, 610, 620. The rights under the latter, which are
relied upon especially, could not be established without discussion. Compare Atkinson v. -Newcastle&c. WVaterworks Co.,
L. R. 2 Ex. Div. 441; Johnston v. Consumers' Gas Company of
Toranto, [1898] A. 0. 447. For the same purpose we further
assume that such rights as the plaintiff has may be enforced
by bill in equity. See Interstate Stock-Yards Co. v. Indianapolis U ion Railway, 99 Fed. Rep. 472. We also lay
on one side the question whether the section of the Constitution of Kentucky is or is not invalid as an attempt to regulate
commerce among the States. For we are of opinion that
the defendant's conduct is not within the prohibitions or requirements of either the Act of Congress or the Constitution
of Kentucky, as those provisions fairly should be construed.
The Bourbon Stock Yards are the defendant's depot.
They are its depot none the less that they are so by contract
and not so by virtue of a title in fee. Unless a preference
of its own depot to that of another road is forbidden, the
defendant is not within the Act of Congress. Suppose that
the Southern Railway station and the Louisville and Nashville station were side by side, and that their tracks were connected within or just outside the limits of the station grounds.
It could not be said that the defendant was giving an undue
or unreasonable preference to itself or subjecting its neighbor
to an undue or unreasonablb disadvantage if it insisted on delivering live stock which it had carried to the end of the
transit at its own yard. These views are sanctioned by what
was said in Covington Stock-Yards Co. v. JKeith, 139 U. S.
128. The fact that the plaintiff's stock yards are public does
not change the case. See further Butchers'& -Drovers'StockYards Co. v. Louisville & .lashville 1R. 1R., 67 Fed. Rep. 35.
If the cattle are to be unloaded, then, as was said in Covington Stock- Yards Company v. KYeith, the defendant has a right
to unload them where its appliances for unloading are, and

CENTRAL STOCK YARDS v. LOUISVILLE &c. RY. CO. 571
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cannot be required to establish another set hard by. On the
other hand, if the cattle are to remain in the defendant's cars
it cannot be required to hand those cars over to another railroad without a contract, and the courts have no authority to.
dictate a contract to the defendant or to require it to make
one. Atchison, Topeka & Santa FP P. P. v. Denver & New
Orleans P. P., 110 U. S. 667, 680. The consensus of the Circuit Courts is to the same effect. Kentucky and Indiana
Bridge Co. v. Louisville & Nashville P. P., 37 Fed. Rep.
567, 629, 630; Little Pock & Menphis P. P. v. St. Louis,
Iron -Mountain & Southern Py., 41 Fed. Rep. 559; Chicago
& NWorthwestern Ry. v. Osborne, 52 Fed. Rep. 912; Oregon
Short-line & Utah Northern By. v. 1Northern Pafc
B. P.,
61 Fed. Rep. 158, affirming S. C., 51 Fed. Rep. 465; Little
Pock & X1emphis P. R. v. &. Louis Southwestern Py.,
63 Fed. Rep. 775 ; St. Louis Drayage Co. v. Louisville & NfashVille R. P.,65 Fed. Rep. 39 ; Allen v. Oregon P. B. & -ravigation C0., 98 Fed. Rep. 16. All that was decided in Wisconsin,
.Minnesota& PacificP. B. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287, was that
by statute two railroad companies might be required to make
track 6onnections. So much of the statute as undertook to
regulate rates was not passed upon. See Ainneapolis & St.
Louis R. B. v. Ainnesota, 186 U. S. 257, 263. There is no
act of Congress that attempts to give courts the power to require contracts to be made in a case like this.
What we have said applies, in our opinion, to the Constitution of Kentucky with little additional argument. The requirement to deliver, transfer and transport freight to any
point where there is a physical connection between the tracks
of the railroad companies, must be taken to refer to cases
where the freight is destined to some further point by transportation over a connecting line. It cannot be intended to
sanction the snatching of the freight from the transporting
company at the moment and for the purpose of delivery. It
seems to us that this would be so unreasonable an interpretation of the section that we do not find it necessary to consider
whether under any interpretation it can be sustained. In view
of the course taken by the argument we may add that we do

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not find a requirement that the railroad company shall deliver
its own cars to another road. The earlier part of section 213
provides that all railroads "shall receive, transfer, deliver and
switch empty or loaded cars, and shall move, transport, receive,
load or unload all the freight in carloads or less quantities, com-withequal prompting to or going from any railroad,
ness and dispatch, and without any discrimination. . .
Promptness and the absence of discrimination are the point,
and that shows that the words "coming to or going from any
railroad," qualify the words "empty or loaded cars" as well as
"freight," and therefore that the cars referred to are cars from
other roads. The same thing is shown by the word "receive,"
which is the starting point of all that relates to cars. See
Louisville & lVashville 1. R. v. Commonwealth, 108 Kentucky,
628,633. The other sections of the Constitution need no special remark.
We have discussed the case as if the two stock yards were
side by side. They were not, but they both were points of delivery for cattle having Louisville as their general destination.
They both were Louisville stations in effect. It may be that
a case could be imagined in which carriage to another station
in the same city by another road fairly might be regarded as
bona fde further transportation over a connecting road and
within the requirements of the Kentucky Constitution. However that may be, we are of opinion that the court below was
entirely right, so far as appears, in treating this as an ordinary
case of stations at substantially the same point of delivery,
and, therefore, as one to be dealt with as if they were side by
side. As the defendant would not be bound to deliver at the
Central Stock Yards if they were by the side of its track, its
obligation is no greater because of the intervention of a short
piece of the track of another railroad. As we have said, the
delivery would have to be made either by unloading or by the
surrender of the defendants' cars.

Decree affirmed.

MR.

JUSTiCE

McKXrNNA concurs in the result.

