OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
192 U. S

Statement of the Case.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania should
be reversed and the case remanded to that court for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

It is so ordered.

MvIR. JUSTICE HARLAN

and MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

dissented.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE CO. v. TAYLOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 93. Argued December 11, 1903.-Decided January 4, 1904.

Courts are not to be deceived by the mere phraseology in which an ordinance may be couched when it appears conclusively that it was passed
for an unlawful purpose and not for the one stated therein.
A license fee cannot be imposed by ordinance of a municipality for purposes of inspection on telegraph companies doing an interstate business
which is so far in excess of the expenses of inspection that it is plain
that it was adopted, not to repay such expenses, but as a means for
raising revenue.

plaintiff in error seeks to review the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, which affirmed the judgment
of the Superior Court of that State, which in its turn affirmed
the judgment of the Court of Common Pleas of Lackawanna
County, in favor of the defendant in error in an action brought
by it to recover the amount of a license fee imposed upon all
telegraph, telephone and electric light companies having poles
and wires in the borough. The ordinance was of the same
nature as that mentioned in the immediately preceding case
of Postal Telegraph-Cable Company v. Borough of New Hope.
By the plaintiff's statement of its claim against the defendant, the telegraph company, it sought to recover from the
company the sum of $220.50, including interest from January 31, 1898.
THE

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE CO. v. TAYLOR.
192 U. S.

65

Statement of the Case.

The defendant is a corporation engaged in interstate commerce by transmitting telegraphic communications among the
several States, and by its affidavit of defence it averred that it
was a company engaged in forwarding telegraphic dispatches
among the several- States, and was a corporation organized
under the laws of the State of New York; that it had paid the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania all taxes which had by legislative enactment been levied upon the value of its poles and
wires erected and maintained in the borough of Taylor and
elsewhere in the State; that it had accepted the act of Congress, (14 Stat. 221,) providing for the construction of telegraph lines over any post road of the United States; that it had
never maintained, and does not now maintain, any office whatever in the borough of Taylor, and that no telegraphic business
of any kind is done or transacted by the defendant in that
borough, except the maintenance of the telegraphic lines and
the transmission of telegraphic messages over the same from
other places; that the ordinance in question is unreasonable,
unjust and excessive, and is illegal and void, because it is
designed and intended to provide revenue by taxation for
the general expenses of the borough, and that no other object
than this exists, or has at any time existed, for the regulations
imposed by the ordinance; that the borough is under no expense whatever in issuing the license required by the ordinance,
and has not been at any time before, during or after the period
mentioned in the plaintiff's statement for which it makes demand, under any expense or charge of any kind whatsoever
in inspecting and regulating the poles and wires; that the
license fees imposed by the ordinance are not based upon the
cost and expense to the borough for inspection and supervision
or regulation of the defendant's lines and business, but the
fees are imposed notwithstanding they are more than twenty
times the amount that might have been or could- possibly be
incidental to such inspection, supervision and regulation, together with all reasonable measures and precautions that
might have been or possibly could be required to be taken by
voL. oxCii-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

the said borough for the safety of its citizens and the public,
or which might have been or possibly could be incurred as
expenses for the most careful, thorough and efficient inspection and supervision that might have been made of the poles and
wires of the defendant, although the plaintiff has not and does
not maintain any inspection and supervision or care whatsoever.
over the poles and wires of the defendant, and has incurred
no expense whatever on account thereof; that the borough is a
sparsely populated district and the land therein of small value,
and most of the land along the highway on which the telegraph
lines are constructed is not adapted to building purposes or
commercial use, and the highway is little traveled; that the
borough is a coal mining community and the buildings therein
consist for the most part of the coal miners' cabins or houses
of one or two stories, and the business buildings are scattered
and consist mostly of small shops or stores; that the poles and
wires thereon are located on the side of the highway and do
not interfere in the slightest degree or to any extent with its
use for all highway purposes, and do not interfere with any
kind of traffic or with the operation of men or apparatus in
extinguishing fires; that the line is not old, decayed or worn
out, but, on the contrary, is comparatively new and sound,
and there is no danger of accident from the decay or breaking
down of the poles and wires; that the license fees imposed by
the ordinance are twenty times more than could be imposed
under any power existing in the borough to make charges for
all legal purposes; that the amount of the license fees imposed
under the ordinance for each year largely exceeds the entire
cost to the defendant itself of maintaining said line, including
all repairs, reconstruction, cost of labor and material and traveling expenses of the employ~s, and all expenses incurred by
the defendant by a careful and efficient inspection and maintenance of such poles and wires; that the fees imposed by the
ordinance are so excessive that if every borough in the State
of Pennsylvania in which defendant has a telegraph system
should pass similar ordinances the total amount collected

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE CO. v. TAYLOR.
192 U. S.

67

Opinion of the Court.

would exceed $100,000 per annum, and if the same kind of an
ordinance should be passed in the other States by the municipalities in which the poles and lines of the company are
placed it could not pay the amount, but would become insolvent
by reason of the fact that the expenses of operation, including
the license fees, would be far in excess of the receipts of the
defendant.
To this affidavit of defence the plaintiff excepted on the
ground that it did not state any sufficient defence to plaintiff's
cause of action, and also on the ground of res adjudicata, in
that the same questions had been theretofore decided between
the same parties in the courts of the State.
A rule for judgment was taken by the plaintiff for want of
a sufficient affidavit of defence, and upon hearing the rule
was made absolute, (the facts set forth in the affidavit of defence being thereby assumed,) and, judgment for the plaintiff
being entered, it was affirmed by the Superior and Supreme
Courts of Pennsylvahia.
Mr. Frank R. Shattuck for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John M. Harris, with whom Mr. E. 0. Wagenhorst
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The grounds of our jurisdiction to review the judgment in
this and the preceding case are similar to those which sustained it in the two cases of Western Union Telegraph Company
v. New Hope, 187 U. S. 419, and Atlantic &c. Telegraph Company v. Philadelphia, 190 U. S. 160. By reference to the
opinions delivered in the state courts in this case it is apparent
that it was not decided upon any question of res judicata, as
set forth in the plaintiff's exceptions to defendant's affidavit
of defence.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

In the opinion of the Superior Court of Pennsylvania it was
stated:
" Whether or not the fee is so obviously excessive as to lead
irresistibly to the conclusion that it is exacted as a return for
the use of the streets, or is imposed for revenue purposes, is a
question for the court, and is to be determined upon a view of
the facts, not upon evidence consisting of the opinions of witnesses as to the proper supervision that the municipal authorities might properly exercise and the expense of the same.
Such a decision becomes a precedent which is to be regarded
in other cases similarly situated. Were it to be held otherwise,
the law upon the subject would be in hopeless confusion and
uncertainty. We make these remarks because we cannot
escape the conclusion that some of the averments of the affidavit of defence are, in reality, but the opinion of the defendant, undoubtedly honestly entertained, as to these matters.
They are not stronger than the averments in Philadelphiav.
American Union Telegraph Company, 167 Pa. St. 406, and the
other facts averred do not distinguish the case from others.
in which a similar fee in boroughs has been held to be not
so obviously excessive as to warrant the courts in declaring
the ordinance void. The cases are collected in the opinion
filed herewith in the case of New Hope v. Western Union
Telegraph Company."
The opinion referred to by the Superior Court is also contained in the record, and cases were cited in that opinion from
the state courts holding that they would not declare an ordinance void because of the alleged unreasonableness of the fee
charged, unless the unreasonableness be so clearly apparent
as to demonstrate an abuse of discretion on the part of the
municipal authorities. The court further remarked:
"In many of'the foregoing cases the license fee was the same
as that imposed by the ordinance under consideration. In
none of the cases was the ordinance declared void for unreasonableness, although it was inferentially conceded that a case
might arise where the license fee would be so grossly dispro-

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE CO. v. TAYLOR.
192 U. S.

69

Opinion of the Court.

portioned to the burden imposed upon the municipality in
consequence of the erection and maintenance of the poles and
wires as to warrant the court in presuming that the ordinance
was a revenue measure, not a police regulation. None of the
cases lays down a fixed and invariable rule by which that
question is to be determined, but after a comparison of the
facts developed on the trial of this case, with the facts of some
of the cases above cited, we have been led to the conclusion
that the court would not have been justified by the precedents
in declaring the ordinance void."
Upon the averments in the affidavit of defence, which in
this proceeding must be taken to be true, we can come to no
other conclusion than that the ordinance was void because of
the unreasonable amount of the license fee provided for therein.
It was urged on the argument that this ordinance was a
proper police regulation, and that the collection of revenue
was not its object; that it was the duty of the borough officials
to protect the lives and property of its citizens, and that in the
discharge of such duty it had the right to constantly inspect
the poles and wires for the purpose of seeing that they were
safe.
There is no doubt that, for the purpose mentioned, the
borough had the right claimed by its counsel. The averments
of the affidavit of defence, however, show that no such duty
has been discharged or attempted to be discharged by the
borough. It has done absolutely nothing to protect the lives
or property of its citizens by inspecting the poles and wires
of the defendant.
In Atlantic &c. Telegraph Co. v. Philadelphia,190 U. S. 160,
it was held that the testimony in a case like this- might be such
as to compel a decision one way or the othey, and the court
might then be justified in directing a verdict. We think this
is one of those cases. We assume that a tax of this kind ought
to be large enough to cover all expenses of police supervision
of the property and instrumentalities used by the company
in the borough, and that it is not bound to furnish such super-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

vision for nothing, but may, in addition to ordinary property
taxation, subject the corporation to a charge for the expenses
of the supervision. The borough is also not compelled to
make its expenditures for these purposes in advance of demanding the tax from the defendant, but it must be remembered that such a tax is authorized only in support of police
supervision, and if it were possible to prove in advance the
exact cost that sum would be the limit of the law. As in the
nature of things this is ordinarily impossible, the municipality
is at liberty to make the charge enough to cover any reasonably anticipated expenses, and the payment of the fee cannot
be avoided because it may subsequently appear that it was
somewhat in excess of the actual expense of the supervision,
nor can the company then recover the difference between the
amount of the license fee and such cost. These observations
are substantially reproduced from the opinion of the court in
Atlantic &c. Telegraph Company v. Philadelphia,supra, delivered by Mr. Justice Brewer.
We come then to an examination of the question whether
this fee, in the light of the admitted facts set forth in the affidavit of defence, can, by the widest stretch of imagination, be
regarded as reasonable. The borough is, where the poles are
planted and the wires stretched, sparsely settled, and the
danger to be apprehended from neglect in regard to the poles
and wires is reduced to a minimum. The borough has in fact
done nothing in the way of inspection or supervision during
the time covered by the license in question. It has not expended one dollar for any such purpose. It has incurred no
liability to pay any expenses arising from inspection or supervision on its behalf. The fee itself is twenty times the amount
of expense that might have been reasonably and fairly incurred
to make the most careful, thorough and efficient inspection
and supervision that might have been made of such poles and
wires, and for all reasonable measures and precautions that
possibly could be required to be taken by the borough for the
safety of its citizens and the public. This is not a mere ex-

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE CO. v. TAYLOR.
192 U. S.

71

Opinion of the Court.

pression of opinion. It is the averment of a fact. The company knows the amount it costs for the inspection, which it
avers is made by its own servants, and which it avers is a most
careful and efficient inspection, one intended to place and
maintain the poles and wires in a perfectly safe and satisfactory
condition. Knowing that cost and comparing it with the
amount demanded under the ordinance, it is enabled to state
as a fact, and not as a mere opinion, that the amount of the
license fee exacted under the ordinance is as stated, twenty
times more than it ought to be to secure a reasonable, efficient
and most careful inspection, as set forth in the affidavit mentioned.
In Chester City v. Telegraph Company, 154 Pa. St. 464, cited
in Telegraph Company v. New Hope, 187 U. S.419, 425, it was
said that the affidavit in that case averred that the rates
charged were at least five times the amount of the expenses
involved in the supervision exercised by the municipality.
The Supreme Court held that while that averment must be
admitted to be true, it did not go far enough, because it referred
only to the usual, ordinary and necessary expenses of the
municipal officers in issuing the license and other expenses
,thereby imposed upon the municipality, and that it made no
reference to the liability imposed upon the city by the erection
of the telegraph poles. It was also stated by the court that
it is the duty of the city to see that the poles are safe and
properly maintained, and should a citizen be injured in person
or property by reason of the neglect of such duty an action
might lie against the-city for the consequences of such neglect.
The court said it was a mistake, therefore, to measure the
reasonableness of the charge by the amount actually expended
by the city in a particular year to the particular purposes
specified in the affidavit.
The affidavit in this case goes much further. It includes
not only the expenses that might have been incurred for an
ordinary inspection, supervision and regulation, but takes into
account the very matters that are spoken of in the extract from

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

the opinion of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, supra.
Instead of the averment that the license fee charged was at
least five times the amount of the expense involved in the
supervision exercised by the municipality, it is stated that it
is more than twenty times the amount that would reasonably
be expended for the purposes stated in the affidavit.
The liability to pay for injuries that might arise from the
bad condition of the poles and wires, arising from the neglect
of the company to.inspect and supervise the same, is not a
liability which the municipality is entitled to recover from the
company in advance of its happening, but it is simply one of
the reasons for an inspection by the borough, which shall be
most carefully and continuously performed, in order that injuries may not arise from the neglect of such supervision.
When we come to an examination of the grounds upon
which this kind of a tax is justifiable, and when we find that
in this case each one of those grounds is absent, how is it possible to uphold the validity of such an ordinance? To uphold
it in such a case as this is to say that it may be passed for one
purpose and used for another; passed as a police inspection
measure and used for the purpose of raising revenue; that the
enactment as a police measure may be used as a mere subterfuge for the purpose of raising revenue, and yet because it is
said to be an inspection measure the court must take it as such
and hold it valid, although resulting in a rate of taxation,
which, if carried out throughout the country, would bankrupt
the company were it added to the other taxes properly assessed
for revenue and paid by the company. It is thus to be declared
legal upon a basis and for a reason that do not exist in fact.
We think the court is not bound to acknowledge an ordinance
such as this to be valid in face of the facts stated in the affidavit
of defence. Confessedly there has been here no inspection, no
expense incurred to provide for one even though not made, and
all expenses and liabilities that might fairly and reasonably be
incurred on the part of the borough are not one-twentieth of
the amount it exacts for an inspection which it has not made.

CITIZENS' BANK v. PARKER.
192 U. S.

Syllabus.

Under such facts it would seem to be plain that the ordinance
was adopted as a means for the raising of revenue and not to
repay expenses for inspection.
Judging the intention of the borough by its action it did not
intend to expend anything for an inspection of the poles and
wires, and did intend to raise revenue under the ordinance.
Courts are not to be deceived by the mere phraseology in which
the ordinance is couched when the action of the borough in
the light of the facts set forth in the affidavit, shows conclusively that it was not passed to repay the expenses or provide for the liabilities incurred in the way of inspection or for
proper supervision.
We are of opinion that, upon the averments contained in
the defendant's statement of defence, the defendant was entitled to judgment. The judgment of the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania is, therefore, reversed, and the cause remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARAN

and MR. JUsTICE

BREWER

dissented.

CITIZENS' BANK v. PARKER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Wo. 2. Argued' October 28, 1903.-Decided January 4,1904.

When a contract is asserted and the Constitution of the United States
invoked to protect it, all of the elements which are blaimed to constitute it are open to examination and review by this court; and also all
that which is claimed to have taken it away, and the writ of error will
not be dismissed.
The rule requiring a strict construction of statutes exempting property

from taxation should not be infringed but where ambiguity exists it is

