CHESEBROUGH v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

within the statute, was void.

It follows that the Supreme

Court of Oregon properly affirmed the judgment of the lower
court in which the value of the stock sold was recovered.
Judgment affirmed.

CITESEBROUGH v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 152. Argued December 3, 4,1903.-Decided January 25,1904.

Texas paid voluntarily cannot be recovered back, and payments with
knowledge and without compulsion are voluntary.
The purchase of stamps from a collector of internal revenue without intimating the purpose they are for, and without any protest made, or notice
given, at the time, that the purchaser claims that the purchase is under
duress, and the law requiring their use unconstitutional, is a voluntary
payment, and a subsequent application to the commissioner to refund
the amount is not equivalent to protest made, or notice given, at the
time of the purchase.
Refusal by a vendee to accept a deed of conveyance without the stamps required by the war revenue act of 1898 is not such duress as relieves the
vendor from making protest or giving notice at the time of the purchase
to the collector from whom the stamps are purchased.

ROBERT A. CHESEBROUGH filed his petition in the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, May 23, 1902, to recover the sum of six hundred dollars
from the United States alleged to have been paid to the collector of internal revenue for the second district of New York
for the purchase of certain internal revenue stamps to be affixed
to a deed for the conveyance of real estate. Petitioner alleged
that on May 28, 1900, he entered into an agreement with the
Chesebrough Building Company to convey to that corporation
certain real estate which he then owned and to execute and
deliver a deed therefor on the fifth day of June, 1900. That on
that day he made, executed and delivered to the corporation
a deed of conveyance of the real estate and received the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

sideration therefor. That at the time of the execution and
delivery of the deed the act of Congress of June 13, 1898, "to
provide ways and means to meet war expenditures, and for
other purposes," was in force, which provided in part as follows:
"SEc. 6. That on and after the first day of July, eighteen
hundred and ninety-eight, there shall be levied, collected, and
paid, for and in respect of the several bonds, debentures, or
certificates of stock and of indebtedness, and other documents,
instruments, matters, and things mentioned and described in
Schedule A of this act, or for or in respect of the vellum, parchment, or paper upon which such instruments, matters, or
things, or any of them, shall be written or printed by any
person or persons, or party who shall make, sign, or issue the
same, or for whose use or benefit the same shall be made,
signed, or issued, the several taxes or sums of money set down
in figures against the same, respectively, or otherwise specified
or set forth in the said schedule."
"Schedule A.
or writing, whereby any
instrument,
Deed,
"Conveyance:
shall be granted, assold
lands, tenements, or other realty
signed, transferred, or otherwise conveyed to, or vested in,
the purchaser or purchasers, or any other person or persons,
by his, her, or their direction, when the consideration or value
exceeds one hundred dollars and does not exceed five hundred
dollars, fifty cents; and for each additional five hundred dollars or fractional part thereof in excess of five hundred dollars,
fifty cents."
"SEc. 7. That if any person or persons shall make, sign, or
issue, or cause to be made, signed, or issued, any instrument,
document, or paper of any kind or description whatsoever,
without the same being duly stamped for denoting the tax
hereby imposed thereon, or without having thereupon an adhesive stamp to denote said tax, such person or persons shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof shall pay a fine of not more than one hundred dollars,
at the discretion of the court, and such instrument, document,

CHESEBROUGH v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

or paper, as aforesaid, shall not be competent evidence in any
court."
The petition then averred that "the Chesebrough Building
Company, as was known to petitioner, was unwilling to accept
the said deed of conveyance unless and until petitioner had
placed thereon the stamps required by the aforesaid act, and
that petitioner under compulsion of said law, and in order to
receive from the purchaser the shares of stock named as the
consideration for such conveyance, and in order to entitle such
deed to be recorded under the provisions of said act, and to be
received as evidence inthe Federal Courts, as therein provided
and in order to enable the petitioner to fulfill his aforesaid
contract with said Chesebrough Building Company, to make,
execute and deliver to said company a good and sufficient deed
of conveyance of said real estate and premises, and in order to
give to said company a good and clear title to said real estate
and premises, free from doubt, did purchase from Charles H.
Treat, the United States collector of internal revenue for the
second district of New York, and place upon the said deed of
conveyance stamps to the amount of six hundred dollars ($600)
the proceeds of 'sale of which stamps your petitioner believes
were thereupon by said collector paid over to the United States
as required by law, and said moneys are now held by th6
United States."
It was further averred that prior to the institution of the
action and in pursuance of the laws of the United States and
the regulations of the Treasury Department in that behalf,
petitioner made a written application on January 9, 1902, to
the United States Commissioner of Internal Revenue for the
refunding of the -amount so paid by him for stamps as aforesaid, which application was denied. Petitioner then charged
that the act was unconstitutional and void, and prayed judgment. To this petition a-demurrer was filed on behalf of the
United States, assigning the ground that the petition did "not
state facts which would constitute a claim on the part of the
claimant against the United States." -The demurrer was sus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

tained and the petition dismissed, and this writ of error was
thereupon allowed.
Sections 3220, 3226, 3227 and 3228 of the Revised Statutes
are as follows:
"SEc. 3220. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, subject
to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, is
authorized, on appeal to him made, to remit, refund, and pay
back all taxes erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, all
penalties collected without authority, and all taxes that appear to be unjustly assessed or excessive in amount, or in any
manner wrongfully collected; also to repay to any collector or
deputy collector the full amount of such sums of money as
may be recovered against him in any court, for any internal
taxes collected by him, with the costs and expenses of suit;
also all damages and costs recovered against any assessor,
assistant assessor, collector, deputy collector, or inspector, in
any suit brought against him by reason of anything done in
the due performance of his official duty: Provided, That where
a second assessment is made in case of a list, statement, or
return which in the opinion of the collector or deputy collector was false or fraudulent, or contained any understatement or undervaluation, such assessment shall not be remitted,
nor shall taxes collected under such assessment be refunded,
or paid back, unless it is proved that said list, statement, or
return was not false or fraudulent, and did not contain any
understatement or undervaluation."
"SEc. 3226. No suit shall be maintained in any court for the
recovery of any internal tax alleged to have been erroneously
or illegally assessed or collected, or of any penalty claimed to
have been collected without authority, or of any sum alleged
to have been excessive or in any manner wrongfully collected,
until appeal shall have been duly made to the Commissioner
of [the] Internal Revenue, according to the provisions of law in
that regard, and the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury
established in pursuance thereof, and a decision of the Commissioner has been had therein: Provided, That if such decision

CHESEBROUGH v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

is delayed more than six months from the date of such appeal,
then the said suit may be brought, without first having a decision of the Commissioner at any time within the period limited
in the next section.
"SEc. 3227. No suit or proceeding for the recovery of any
internal tax alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, or of any penalty alleged to have been
collected without authority, or of any sum alleged to have been
excessive or in any manner wrongfully collected, shall be maintained in any court, unless the same is brought within two
years next after the cause of action accrued: Provided, That
actions for such claims which accrued prior to June six, eighteen
hundred and seventy-two, may be brought within one year
from said date; and that where any such claim was pending
before the Commissioner, as provided in the preceding section,
an action thereon may be brought within one year after such
decision and not after. But no right of action which was
already barred by any statute on the said date shall be revived
by this section.
"SEc. 3228. All claims for the refunding of any internal tax

alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, or of any penalty alleged to have been collected without
authority, or of any sum alleged to have been excessive or in
any manner wrongfully collected, must be presented to the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue within two years next after
the cause of action accrued: Provided, That claims which accrued prior to June six, eighteen hundred and seventy-two,
may be presented to the Commissioner at any time within one
year from said date. But nothing in this section shall be construed to revive any right of action which was already barred
by any statute on that date."
Mr. Paul Fuller and Mr. F. R. Coudert, Jr., with whom Mr.
Henry M. Ward was on the brief, for plaintiff in error :
This is a direct tax and is void because not apportioned.
Income Tax Cases, 157, 158 U. S.; Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S.
voL. oxcc-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

192 U. S.

509; Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S. 283; for definition
of ownership see Austin on Jurisprudence, §§ 515, 518, 1103;
Holland's Jurisprudence, 194. Alienability is not a less essential part of property than income or possession. It is a
fundamental right, United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625,
whereas those of disposing or taking by testament are not
fundamental. This differentiates Magoun v. Trust Co., 170
U. S. 283; United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625; Knowlton
v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41. A general act making land inalienable
would amount to depriving owners of property without due
process of law. Wynehamer v. The People, 13 N. Y. 378. As
to where taxes on sale of real estate fall, see Smith's Wealth
of Nations, Art. 1, p. 685, and John Stuart Mill on Political
Economy. For origin of stamp taxes, see Dowell's History,
vol. II, p. 62, vol. III, p. 321, et seq. The tax has only been
imposed once before in the United States in 1862, 12 Stat.
479. It was not included in the act of July 6, 1797, or that of
August 2, 1813.
The Circuit Judge erred in the recent decision of United
States v. Thomas, sustaining the constitutionality of tax on
stock transfers. The argument that such a tax could not be
apportioned would apply equally well to the income tax but
did not find favor with the court.
The payment was not a voluntary one; the law presumes a
payment made by threats or duress was not voluntary. Swift
Co. v. UnitedStates, 111 U. S. 22,28. The treasury regulations
did not require a protest but an application for a refund which
was made. Provisions of Revised Statutes for refunding internal revenue taxes are remedial. Savings Bank v. United States,
16 C. Cl. 335, 348; affirmed 104 U. S. 728; Kaufman's Case, 11
C. Cl. 669, affirmed 96 U. S. 570. The protest in customs
cases is not the protest required by common law Elliott v.
Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137, 152; Erskine v. Van Arsdale, 15 Wall.
75. The petition alleges that the statutory and departmental
regulations were complied with. The action was properly
brought under the Tucker Act. Dooley v. United States, 182 U.
S. 222.

CHESEBROUGH v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralPurdy for the United States:
The payment was purely voluntary and unless the Government confer the right to sue there can be no recovery. In
this case there was no protest. Cooley on Taxation, 3d ed.
p. 1495; Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137, 152; Erskine v. Van
Arsdale, 15 Wall. 75; Philadelphiav. Collector,5 Wall. 720, 730;
Real Estate Savings Bank v. United States, 16 C. Cl. 335;
S. C., 104 U. S. 728; Cheatham v. United States, 92 U. S. 88;
Wright v. Blakeslee, 101 U. S.. 178; Schmidt v. Trowbridge, Fed.
Cas. No. 12,468; Stewart v. Barnes, 153 U. S.456; and see intimation inPollockc v. Farmer'sL. & T. Co., 157 U. S. 554, and
cases cited in dissenting opinion, p. 606; Pacific Steam Whaling
Co. v. United States, 187 U. S.447, 453; De Lima v. Bidwell,
182 U. S.1, 179.
The tax is an indirect and not a direct tax. The position of
the Government on this point is set forth in the brief submitted
on its behalf in Thomas v. United States, argued simultaneously
with this case.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The rule is firmly established that taxes voluntarily paid
cannot be recovered back, and payments with knowledge and
without compulsion are voluntary. At the same time, when
taxes are paid under protest that they are being illegally
exacted, or with notice that the payer contends that they
are illegal and intends to institute suit to compel their repayment, a recovery in such a suit may, on occasion, be had, although generally speaking, even a protest or notice will not
avail if the payment be made voluntarily, with full knowledge
of all the circumstances, and without any coercion by the
actual or threatened exercise of power possessed, or supposed
to be possessed, by the party exacting or receiving the payment, over the person or property-of the party making the
payment, from which the latter has no other means of imme-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

diate relief than such payment. Little v. Bowers, 134 U. S.
547, 554; Railroad Company v. Commissioners, 98 U. S. 541,
544; Radich v. Hutchins, 95 U. S. 210, citing Brumagim v.
Tillinghast, 18 California, 265, a case in respect of stamps
purchased, in which the subject is discussed by Mr. Justice
Field, then Chief Justice of California.
In Railroad Company v. Commissioners, Mr. Chief Justice
Waite, speaking for the court, said:
"There are, no doubt, cases to be found in which the language of the court, if separated from the facts of the particular
case under consideration, would seem to imply that a protest
alone was sufficient to show that the payment was not voluntary; but on examination it will be found that the protest was
used to give effect to the other attending circumstances. Thus,
in Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137, and Bond v. Hoyt, 13 Pet.
266, which were customs cases, the payments were made to
release goods held for duties on imports; and the protest became necessary, in order to show that the legality of the demand was not admitted when the payment was made. The
recovery rested upon the fact that the payment was made to
release property from detention, and the protest saved the
rights which grew out of that fact. In Philadelphiav. Collector, 5 Wall. 730, and Collector v. Hubbard, 12 Wall. 13, which
were internal-revenue tax cases, the actions were sustained
'upon the ground that the several provisions in the internalrevenue acts referred to warranted the conclusion as a necessary implication that Congress intended to give the tax-payer
such remedy.' It is so expressly stated in the last case, p. 14.
As the case of Erskine v. Van Arsdale, 15 Wall. 75, followed
these, and was of the same general character, it is to be presumed that it was put upon the same ground. In such cases
the protest plays the same part it does in customs cases, and
gives notice that the payment is not to be considered as admitting the right to make the demand."
The stamps in question were purchased from the collector of
internal revenue for the Second District of New York, for the

CHESEBROUGH v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

purpose of affixing them to a deed of conveyance to the Building Company, but the collector was not informed at the time
of the purchase of the particular purpose, and no intimation
was given him, written or oral, that petitioner claimed that
the law requiring such stamps was unconstitutional and that
he was making the purchase under duress. The petition did
allege that the Building Company was unwilling to accept an
unstamped conveyance and that the stamps were thereupon
affixed in order to complete the transaction and obtain the
consideration, but if that constituted duress as between Chesebrough and his building company it was a matter with which
the collector had nothing to do. On the face of the petition
the purchase was purely voluntary and made under mutual
mistake of law if the law were unconstitutional. But it is said
that protest or notice would have made this payment involuntary, and that because something over nineteen months
after the payment petitioner made "a written application" to
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for the amount he had
paid for the stamps, the ordinary rule did not apply, inasmuch
as such an application was "the statutory equivalent of a common law protest or notice of suit."
The reference is to section 3220 of the Revised Statutes,
which provides that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
on appeal to him, may remit, refund and pay back all taxes
erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, or that appear to
have been unjustly assessed or excessive in amount, or in any
manner wrongfully collected; and also "repay to any collector
or deputy collector the full amount of such sums of money as
may be recovered against him in any court, for any internal
taxes collected by him, with the costs and expenses of suit;"
while sections 3226, 3227, and 3228 provide that no suit shall
be maintained for the recovery of internal taxes alleged to have
been erroneously or illegally assessed or collected "until appeal
shall have been duly made to the Commissioner of the Internal
Revenue;" or unless brought within two years after the cause

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

of action accrued; and that the claim for refunding shall be
presented to the Commissioner within two years.
The words "until appeal shall have been duly made," appear
to us to imply an adverse decision by the collector, at least a
compelled payment, or official demand for payment, from
which the appeal is taken.
In Stewart v. Barnes, 153 U. S. 456, this court treated the
language as providing for "an appeal," and we think correctly.
The opinion considered section 19 of the act of July 13, 1866,
14 Stat 98, 152, c. 184, carried forward into section 3226, and
section 44 of the act of June 6, 1872, 17 Stat. 230, 257, c. 315,
from which sections 3227 and 3228 were drawn. We give
them in the margin.1
I See.

19, Act of July 13, 1866:
"SEc. 19. And be it furtherenacted, That no suit shall be maintained in any
court for the recovery of any tax alleged to have been erroneously or illegally
assessed or collected, until appeal shall have been duly made to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue according to the provisions of law in that
regard, and the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury established in
pursuance thereof, and a decision of said Commissioner shall be had thereon,
unless such suit shall be brought within six months from the time of said
decision, or within six months from the time this act takes effect: Provided,
That if said decision shall be delayed more than six months from the date
of such appeal, then said suit may be brought at any time within twelve
months from the date of such appeal."
Sec. 44, Act of June 6, 1872:
"Ssc. 44. That all suits and proceedings for the recovery of any internal
tax alleged to have been erroneously assessed or collected, or any penalty
claimed to have been collected without authority, or for any sum which it
is alleged was excessive, or in any manner wrongfully collected, shall be
brought within two years next after the cause of action accrued and not
after; and all claims for the refunding of any internal tax or penalty shall
be presented to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue within two years
next after the cause of action accrued and not after: Provided, That actions
for claims, which have accrued prior to the passage of this act, shall be commenced in the courts or presented to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
within one year from the date of said passage: And provided further, That
where a claim shall be pending before said Commissioner the claimant may
bring his action within one year after such decision and not after: And provided further, That no right of action barred by any statute now in force
shall be revived by anything herein contained."

CHESEBROUGH v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This petition did not set up any ruling of the collector, either
specific or resulting from a demand to which petitioner yielded
under protest or with notice, and from which he appealed to
the Commissioner, but averred that he "made a written application" to the Commissioner to refund the amount he had paid.
We do not say that this was not sufficient to justify action
by the Commissioner, but the averment as it stands is not
equivalent to stating a previouis adverse decision appealed
from. The inference is that the application was a mere afterthought,- and if an afterthought, the payment was voluntary.
The Commissioner might nevertheless have allowed the
claim, and doubtless would have done so, in the interest of
justice, if there were no particular circumstances to discredit
it, and the law had been held unconstitutional by this court.
But he rejected it, and petitioner was remitted to his suit in no
different plight so far as his cause of action was concerned
than if he had not sought the Commissioner at all.
In United States v. Savings Bank, 104 U. S. 728, it was held
that the allowance of a claim by the Commissioner was equivalent to an account stated between private parties and binding
on the United States until impeached for fraud or mistake,
and that if not paid on proper application through the accounting officers of the Treasury Department, an action might
be maintained on it in the Court of Claims, while if the claim
were rejected, an action might be prosecuted against the collector. It was not, however, ruled that in the latter situation
a recovery could be had if the original payment had been
voluntary and without objection.
It is one thing for the Government to correct mistakes,
return overcharges, or refund amounts exacted without authority, when satisfied such action is due to justice, and quite
another thing for the Government to be compelled to repay
amounts which in its view have been lawfully collected.
By section 3220 authority is given and opportunity afforded
to do what justice and right are found to require, and the conditions which govern contested litigation may well be regarded

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

as waived, but it does not follow that there is any statutory
waiver of such conditions when the Government is proceeded
against in invitum.
As we have said the purchase of these stamps was purely
voluntary, and if, notwithstanding, recovery could be had, it
could only be on protest or notice, and there was none such
here, written or verbal, formal or informal.
It is argued that the provisions of section 3220 for the repayment of judgments against the collector rendered protest or
notice unnecessary for his protection, but it was clearly demanded for the protection of the Government in conducting
the extensive business of dealing in stamps, which were sold
and delivered in quantities, and without it there would not be
the slightest vestige of involuntary payment in transactions
like that under consideration. And we find no right of recovery, expressly or by necessary implication, conferred by
statute, in such circumstances.
Judgment affirmed.

