CRONIN v. CITY OF DENVER.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as the proper subject of legislative regulation. Not only may
a license be exacted from the keeper of the saloon before a
glass of his liquors can be thus disposed of, but restrictions may
be imposed as to the class of persons to whom they may be
sold, and the hours of the day and the days of the week on
which the saloons may be opened. Their sale in that form may
be absolutely prohibited. It is a question of public expediency and public morality, and not of Federal law. The
police power of the State is fully competent to regulate the
business-to mitigate its evils or to suppress it entirely. There
is no inherent right in a citizen to thus sell intoxicating liquors
by retail; it is not a privilege of a citizen of the State or of a
citizen of the United States."

Judgment affirmed.

CRONIN v. CITY OF DENVER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 101.

Argued December 16,1903.-Decided January 4,1904.

Certain sections of an ordinance of the city of Denver, Colorado, as to the
sale of liquor held not to be unconstitutional on the authority of Cronin
v. Adams, ante, p. 108.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Milton Smith for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles L. Brock, with whom Mr. Henry A. Lindsley and
Mr. Halsted L. Ritter were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the police court of the city of

OCTOBER TERM,
Syllabus.

1903.
192 U. S.

Denver, State of Colorado, to collect $500, for the violation of
section 746 of ordinance No. 101 of the city. Plaintiff in error
was found guilty, and fined the sum of $50. On appeal to the
County Court he was also found guilty and fined $100. The
judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, and
thereupon the Chief Justice of the State allowed this writ of
error.
The case involves the constitutionality of sections 745 and
746 of the ordinance of the city of Denver. That question was
passed upon in Cronin v. Adams, just decided, ante, p. 108,
and on its authority the judgment is
Affirmed.

CHARLES McINTIRE v. EDWIN A. McINTIRE.
EDWIN A. McINTIRE v. CHARLES McINTIRE.
OF
APPEALS FROM, AND IN ERROR TO, THE COURT OF APPEALS
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Nos. 84, 85. Argued December 8, 1903.-Decided January 4, 1904.

A testator left a residue "to be equally divided between my brothers
EdEdwin and Charles children." At the date of the will the brother
testator.
the
survived
whom
of
five
win had died leaving six children,
Charles had two children and he and one of his children survived the
testator.
Held that the residue was to be divided per capita.
inCounsel was retained to uphold the will at the petition of legatees,
cluding the administrator with the will annexed, and was paid by order
of court, the payments being charged by him against the interest of these
legatees without prejudice to an application to have them charged against
the estate. In the final account, the payments were charged against
the estate and his accounts were allowed.
Held that the charge was proper.
the
An order of court was made by consent that the administrator with
charge,
other
or
commission
without
but
such,
as
act
will annexed should
the assets being in other hands. When the debts were paid the assets

