CITIZENS' BANK v. PARKER.
192 U. S.

Syllabus.

Under such facts it would seem to be plain that the ordinance
was adopted as a means for the raising of revenue and not to
repay expenses for inspection.
Judging the intention of the borough by its action it did not
intend to expend anything for an inspection of the poles and
wires, and did intend to raise revenue under the ordinance.
Courts are not to be deceived by the mere phraseology in which
the ordinance is couched when the action of the borough in
the light of the facts set forth in the affidavit, shows conclusively that it was not passed to repay the expenses or provide for the liabilities incurred in the way of inspection or for
proper supervision.
We are of opinion that, upon the averments contained in
the defendant's statement of defence, the defendant was entitled to judgment. The judgment of the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania is, therefore, reversed, and the cause remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARAN

and MR. JUsTICE

BREWER

dissented.

CITIZENS' BANK v. PARKER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Wo. 2. Argued' October 28, 1903.-Decided January 4,1904.

When a contract is asserted and the Constitution of the United States
invoked to protect it, all of the elements which are blaimed to constitute it are open to examination and review by this court; and also all
that which is claimed to have taken it away, and the writ of error will
not be dismissed.
The rule requiring a strict construction of statutes exempting property

from taxation should not be infringed but where ambiguity exists it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

the duty of the court to determine whether doubt exists and to solve it
and not to immediately surrender to it.
Where it is res judicata that the original charter of a bank by which its
capital is exempt from any tax constituted a contract within the impairment clause of the Constitution, and that such exemption is not affected
by subsequent charters and constitutions, and there is no doubt that the
State intended to offer inducements to enlist capital in the early development of the State, and no license- tax was demanded for fifty-eight years
although that method of taxation was in force during the whole period,
the exemption from any tax may be construed as including a license tax
on occupation as well as taxes on property.

THis suit was instituted in the Civil District Court for the
Parish of Orleans for the recovery of the sum of twenty-four
hundred dollars, claimed to be due from the bank for the year
1894 as a license tax for carrying on a banking business. The
license is claimed to have been authorized by the following
provision of Act No. 150 of the general assembly of Louisiana
of 1890: "That for each business of carrying on a bank, banking
company, association, corporation or agency, the license shall
be based on the declared or nominal capital and surplus,
whether said capital and surplus is owned or in use, or on
deposit in the State or elsewhere, as follows, to wit:
Ninth class. When the said declared or nominal capital and
surplus is four hundred thousand dollars or more, and under
six hundred thousand dollars, the license shall be four hundred and fifty dollars ($450)."
The bank pleaded the general issue and that it was exempt
from paying such license by the provisions of its charter granted
in 1833, and by section 4 of the act of January 30, 1836,
amending the charter, by which it was provided that "the
capital of said bank shall be exempt from any tax laid by the
State, or by any parish or body politic, under the authority
of the State, during the continuance of its charter." It was
alleged that the charter of 1833 and the amendment of 1836
were granted for a valuable consideration, and constituted a
contract between the State and the bank, and that the act
imposing the license impaired the obligation of the contract,
and was therefore violative of the Constitution of the United

CITIZENS' BANK r. PARKER.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

States. Certain judgments were also pleaded as res judicata
and introduced in evidence, one of which was the decree of this
court in New Orleansv. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 371.
The trial court sustained the defence of the bank, based on
its claim under its charter, but did not pass on the plea of res
judicata. The court observed: "I pass only on the main issue
raised without reference to the defendant's plea of res judicata,
inasmuch as it does not appear that the issue of exemption
from a license tax has been presented in any of the cases and
judgments relied on to support the plea."
Judgment was entered, dismissing the demand of the State.
It was reversed on appeal to the Supreme Court, the court,
however, dividing. 52 La. Ann. 1086. Elaborate opinions
were delivered both by the majority and minority of the court.
All of the contentions of the bank were held to be untenable,
but the members of the majority did not agree upon the
grounds. Mr. Justice Monroe, with whom concurred the
Chief Justice, placed his decision on three grounds: (1) The
plea of res judicatacould not be sustained, because the validity
of a license tax was not involved in the decrees or judgments
pleaded. (2) License taxes were distinguishable from taxes
on property, and the bank was not exempt from the former
by its charter. (3) The act of 1874, extending the charter from
1884 to 1911, was to take effect in 1884, from which it was
deduced: "First, that the extension thus granted could add
nothing not authorized by the constitution of 1868, under the
dominion of which the act was passed, and which required the
payment of a license; second, that the grant, to take effect in
1884, became subject to the constitution adopted in 1879,
which also required, or authorized the legislature to require,
the payment of the license." (4) Even if this were not so, the
acceptance by the bank of the Act No. 79 of 1880 "specifically
and in terms subjected it to the constitution of 1879, and
thereby placed it out of the power of the legislature to exempt
it from the payment of the license imposed on other institutions of the same class."

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

Mr. Justice Watkins delivered a separate opinion, and placed
his concurrence on the distinction between a license tax and a
property tax, and said that "the conclusion is perfectly clear
that a property tax was only in contemplation of the legislature
in framing that exemption." And also said that the license law
under which the State proceeded "does not conflict with the
contract clause of the Federal Constitution by impairing the
contract rights of the defendant bank under its charter."
Concluding his opinion, the learned justice observed:
"In my view, it is unnecessary for this court to go into any
discussion of the constitutional questions raised and adverted
to in the opinion of the majority, for the reason that on the
face of the charter exemption, which the bank pleads, its
liability is apparent.
"It is my view, also, that the better course of decision is,
and one more in harmony with the general jurisprudence of
this court, to avoid discussion of Federal questions which only
arise incidentally and are unnecessary to the decision of the
principal question at issue.
"Entertaining this view, I think it is preferable to.pass the
constitutional question under consideration and reverse the
judgment of the District Court and sustain the license on
the face of the charter and the law."
Mr. Justice Breaux and Mr. Justice Blanchard dissented,
each filing an opinion.
Mr. Henry Denis, with whom Mr.Branch K. Miller was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. E. Howard McCaleb, Jr., with whom Mr. E. Howard
McCaleb was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
1. A motion is made to dismiss. The ground of it is that, even

CITIZENS' BANK v. PARKER.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

if the charter of 1833 and the amendment of 1836 exempted the
bank from license taxes, the bank, by accepting the act of 1880,
which enabled the bank to make compromises with its mortgage
creditors, became subject to the constitution of 1879,.which, it
is contended, authorized or required the legislature to impose
a license tax. And besides the act of 1874 extending the
charter was subject to the constitution of 1868, and that required the payment of a license. Upon those grounds Mr.
Justice Monroe based his opinion, and they, it is urged, involved state questions sufficient to sustain the judgment.
But those grounds only had the concurrence of the Chief
Justice. Mr. Justice Watkins did not assent to them and
Justices Breaux and Blanchard dissented from them. The
judgment of the court, therefore, does not rest upon them.
The judgment rests upon the construction of the original
charter, that is, upon the contract between the State and the
bank, but to construe that is also our function.
But assuming that the judgment rests upon the grounds
stated, we, nevertheless, have the power of review. The
Federal question presented is, did the bank at the time of the
imposition of the license tax sued for have a contract with
the State exempting it (the bank) from such tax? The elements of that question are the original contract and all subsequent legislation relating to the contract and which it is
claimed modify or change it. The motion to dismiss is, therefore, denied.
2. The question presented on the merits has been simplified
by the case of New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 371.
The origin and history of the bank are there detailed, its charter
and its exemptions are construed, its litigations with the city
are recited and their effect declared. We need only apply
and extend the reasoning of that case to decide this.
It came here from the Circuit Court of the United States.
It was brought in that court by a bill in equity to enjoin the
taxing officers of the State and of the city of New Orleans from
taxing the bank under certain provisions of a statute of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

State for the assessment of the capital of banks. Under the
statute the capital stock of banks which were represented by
shares were not assessed by that name, but the shares were
required to be assessed to the stockholders at their actual
valuation as shown by the books of the bank, and the taxes
assessed were required to be paid by the bank, which was given
the power to collect the amount from the shareholders or
their transferees. The real estate owned by the bank was
directed to be assessed directly to it and the tax "proportioned
to each share of capital stock" and deducted from the amount
of taxes of that share under the statute. The statute also
contained provisions for its administration and required property which had been omitted from the assessment rolls to be
assessed for the current year and for three years back. The
court adjudged the bank to be exempt from the taxation and
granted an injunction against the collection of the taxes for
the designated years by the State of Louisiana, and the city
of New Orleans, "upon the capital, property or shares of stock
of the shareholders of said bank, whether assessed against the
bank or its shareholders."
The writ also enjoined the demanding or collecting from the
bank of any state or city license tax. Commenting on the
decree, this court said:.
"The exemptions to which the decree below held the bank
to be entitled related therefore to distinct objects of taxation,
one not necessarily connected with or dependent upon the
other, and may be summarized as follows: First. That the bank
was not subject to taxation on its capital, shares of stock or
real estate and furniture actually used for the carrying on of its
banking business, and that the bank could not be lawfully
obliged to pay the sum of any tax assessed on its shareholders.
Second. That the stockholders of the bank were not liable for
assessment on their shares of stock. Third. That the bank
was also not subject to taxation on any real estate held by it
which had been mortgaged to secure stock subscriptions and
had become the property of the bank under foreclosure pro-

CITIZENS' BANK v. PARKER.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ceedings, because property so acquired became by virtue of
the purchase a part of its capital stock. Fourth. That the
non-liability of the bank to taxation embraced also immunity
from the payment of a license to either the State of Louisiana
or the city of New Orleans."
The decree was affirmed as to the objects of taxation embraced in the first subdivision, and reversed as to those embraced in the second, third and fourth subdivisions. Of the
objects in the fourth subdivision it was said.
"We are at a loss to understand by what process of reasoning
the decree was made to cover the question of the non-liability
of the bank for license. It was not presented by the pleadings,
and was entirely dehors the issue in the case."
In sustaining the decree of the Circuit Court as to the objects
in the first subdivision, necessarily there was involved the decision that the charter of the bank, both as originally granted
and as extended, exempted the capital of the bank from taxation, and the exemption was not taken away by the constitutions of 1868 and 1879, by the acceptance of the act of 1874 by
the bank, nor by the act of 1880. Many considerations were
referred to which might have justified this as an independent
conclusion, but the decision was mainly rested upon the judgments of the courts of Louisiana which had been pleaded as
res judicata, and which judgments, it was decided, had concluded the controversies. There was a clear adjudication,
therefore, of the right of exemption of the bank from a tax on
its capital.
The ruling in New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank has been followed
by the Supreme Court of Louisiana. In Treasurer of New
Orleansv. Chaffraix, 106 Louisiana, 250, 256, the same questions
were raised on the statutes of 1874 and 1880 and the constitutions of 1868 and 1879, as are raised in the case at bar. The
court, replying to them, said:
"Both these contentions were passed upon and negatived in
New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 371, and the effect
pf that decision of the Supreme Court of the United States is

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

to maintain and carry the exemption into the extended period
of the bank's charter."
It is true that in a subsequent case, State v. Sugar Refining
Co., 108 Louisiana, 603, Citizens' Bank v. New Orleans is criticised and its views are not concurred in as to what constitutes
the thing adjudged and an estoppel in tax cases. But the
thing claimed to have been adjudged was not a right claimed
under theConstitution of the United States, and there was no
intimation of disapproval of New Orleans v. Chaffraix.
But if it can be contended that there is conflict between the
state cases, New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank is, nevertheless,
decisive of the questions adjudged by it. Deposit Bank v.
Frankfort, 191 U. S. 499. And all the questions in the case at
bar were adjudged by it except the question of the exemption
of the bank from the payment of license taxes. That question
is now presented, and we think the exemption exists. We
deduce this not only from the words of the charter, but from
the purpose of its enactment and of its extension. The bank
was made an agency of the State. To have fostered it with
aid and to have burdened it with taxation of any kind would
have been inconsistent, considering the provisions of the act
incorporating it, and it was immaterial whether it was constituted a quasi public corporation or entirely a private one.
It was created to accomplish purposes in which the State took
an interest, and the expectations which were entertained of it
may be regarded in the interpretation of its charter. With
the wisdom or folly of the charter we have nothing to do. Our
sole function is to interpret it. It may seem, in 1903, to have
been imprudent legislation. But how did it appear in 1833
and 1836? We must contemplate it as of that time. States
act through men, and, of course, cannot have a greater appreciation or prophecy of things than men. Events may disappoint or baffle their purposes, but they cannot for that reason
be relieved from their obligations. Nor can they necessarily
be accused of folly. There are limits to the power of government and the wisest provisions may be frustrated or turned to

CITIZENS' BANK v. PARKER.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

detriment by causes which no prescience can foresee. It is,
therefore,-to 1833 and 1836 we must turn, to the condftions
and purposes of then.
The chief industry of Louisiana was agriculture, and it
seemed to the State a wise policy to encourage and expand
that industry, and the means selected was a bank which could
make loans to the planters upon the security of their lands.
Capital was necessary. Private persons were to be induced
to subscribe, and the State aided by an issue and pledge of its
bonds. It was careful to make provision for control. No act
of administration could be undertaken without its consent.
It was represented by six members on a board of twelve directors. It, besides, contemplated the probability of profits,
and made provision to share them. The scheme was large
and hazardous. Private capital had to be tempted to it, and
the State, besides contributing its credit, offered the inducement of a relief from burdens. There is no doubt of this, and
the dispute is only as to the degree, and, on an ambiguity which
may be asserted upon a distinction in the form of taxation, a
limitation is attempted to be put upon the comprehensive and
expressive words of the bank's charter. This seems to us not
justified. The words of the charter are "the capital of the
bank shall be exempt from any tax." The word any excludes
selection or distinction. It declares the exemption without
limitation. And why should there have been limitation?
What purpose was there to serve by making a distinction
between the forms of taxation? The State did not intend
to so limit its aid. It did not mean to help the bank to do
business and then tax the business when done-relieve it and
burden it at the same time; retain the right to impose as an
occupation tax that which it gave up as a right to impose as
a property tax.
This view is sustained by contemporaneous construction of
the bank's charter. It was not only the immediate sense of
the officers of the State, but their continued sense through a
number of years, that the bank was exempt from all taxation,
VOL. oxii-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

and when the right of taxation was asserted a license tax was
not included. And we have authority for saying that a license
tax was not demanded during a period of fifty-eight years,
notwithstanding the many changes in the administrative
officers of the State; that during all that tine, "even from
and inclusive of the very first revenue act (that of 1813),
adopted after the admission of the State into the Union,
license taxation as a means of revenue was provided for and
enforced," and for a portion of the time (from 1869) license
taxes were imposed upon banks.
Stress is put in the argument at bar upon the distinction
between taxes on property and taxes on occupations. The
distinction exists and counsel have cited Louisiana decisions
in which that distinction has been held to justify license taxes,
notwithstanding clauses in charters exempting capital stock
from taxation. A review of those cases is not necessary.
They were all rendered subsequently to 1836, and they depended upon the application of the constitution of 1868 or
1879, or special circumstances not applicable to the charter
of the Citizens' Bank. And those cases did not embarrass
the court in defining the scope of the charter of the Citizens'
Bank in the decisions presently to be considered.
That the distinction between property taxes and license
taxes was recognized in Louisiana in 1833 or 1836 is not very
clear, but subsequently the distinction was certainly not always considered as justifying a power to impose license taxes.
In City of New Orleans v. Southern Bank, 11 La. Ann. 41, the
general banking law of the State, approved April 30, 1853,
called the Free Banidng Law, was considered. The law provided "that bankers and banking companies, doing business
under this act, shall be taxed upon their capital stock (italics
ours) at the same rate as other personal property under the
laws of the State." It was held that the provision was a contract with the individual corporations formed under the act,
and a license tax imposed by the common council of the city
under an act passed in 1842, Session Acts of 1842, p. 17, which

CITIZENS' BANK v. PARKER.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

empowered the city to levy a license tax on certain enumerated
occupations and "all other callings, professions or business,"
was illegal.
The same question was presented again in State of Louisiana
v. Southern Bank, 23 La. Ann. 271, upon a license tax imposed
by the revenue laws of 1869. The court was urged to overrule
New Orleans v. Southern Bank. The court refused to do so
and affirmed the doctrine of that case, and held the act "violative of section ten, article 1, of the Constitution of the United
States." The Supreme Court of Louisiana, therefore, as early
as 1853, construed a provision exempting the capital stock of
a bank from taxation except at a particular rate as exempting
the bank from a license tax. In other words, it was held that
a license tax was virtually a tax on the capital of the banks,
and, we think, that must be held of the tax in the case at bar.
Whatever the tax may be called-one on property or one on
occupations, if its final incidence is on the capital it is comprehended in the exemption contained in the charter. As we
have already pointed out, the language of the charter is universal; and it was said in Citizens' Bank v. Bouny, Tax Collector, 32 La. Ann. 239, "That language is broad enough to
cover everything which, during its existence, should enter into
and make part of the capital of said bank." If the language
is broad enough to preclude a tax upon that which may become part of the capital of the bank, it is broad enough to
preclude a tax which may become a burden upon the capital.
Whatever diminishes the income of a bank diminishes its capital under the provisions of the charter of 1833. It was said in
the Bouny case: "By the twenty-ninth section of the original
charter, 'all the profits made by said corporation shall be added'
to and made part of its capital,' except a certain fraction of any
excess of profits over what was necessary to pay the bonds
issued by the bank." And the sum of $159,238.62 accumulated profits were held not to be liable to taxation. And fully
as significant was the exemption declared of the sum of $636,450
assessed to the shareholders of the bank as "value of capital

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

stock." It was said: "Even if the shareholders be liable to
taxation on their shares (upon which we express no opinion),
under the peculiar and exceptionable nature of the charter of
the Citizens' Bank, we think it cannot be forced to pay taxes
assessed to its shareholders." In other words, the burden of
tax could not be put upon the bank, however it could be imposed upon the stockholders.
We may recur to Treasurerof New Orleans v. Chaffraix. It
was a proceeding to recover the payment of a tax for the year
1899, imposed upon a certain number of shares of the capital
stock of the Citizens' Bank held by Chaffraix. Exemption was
asserted under the clause of the bank's charter which we have
quoted. This was one of the questions left open by this court
in New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, and left open in the Bouny
case. The exemption nevertheless was sustained. It was
recognized that in some jurisdictions, "including the Supreme
Court of the United States," it was held that the exemption of
the capital of a corporation from taxation does not of necessity
include the exemption of the shareholders on their shares of
stock. But the court considered that it was not necessary to
approve or disapprove the doctrine, and rejected it as inapplicable to shares in the Citizens' Bank, because the intent of the
legislature was otherwise. And that intent was deduced "not
only from the words of the charter," but from the purposes for
which the bank was instituted, and they were vividly described. Because of them, it was in effect said, and of the
bank's relation to them and the state's relation to the bank,
the State "granted the clause quoted above exempting from
taxation." And it was observed, "at that time the refined
distinction between the capital and the capital stock of a corporation had not been made by the courts, or was at least
unrecognized as yet in Louisiana." We see, therefore, that
in the Bouny case it was held that a tax on that which might
become capital, or a tax which the bank would have to pay, is
illegal. In the Chaffraix case it is held that a tax which falls
on the stockholders of the bank is illegal. In other words, the

CITIZENS' BANK v. PARKER.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

effect of the two cases is that a tax which falls upon the capital
or is to be paid by the bank or its stockholders, is prohibited.
A license tax has surely some one of those effects.
It is urged, however, that neither the Bouny case nor the
Chafiraix case can be adduced as authoritative. The argument
is that a judgment in the case at bar has become the law of the
case, and that it cannot be affected by what was or has been
decided in some other case, and that the judgment in the case
at bar rested on non-Federal grounds which were sufficient to
sustain it, to wit, the construction and application of the constitutions and statutes of that State. The argument is the same
as that directed against our jurisdiction, and has been answered. When a contract is asserted and the Constitution of
the United States invoked to protect it, all of the elements
which are claimed to constitute it are open to our review; and,
also, all of that which is claimed to have taken it away. We
are certainly not confined to the decision under review. To
hold that would surrender the power of review. That decision,
of course, claims our first, and a most thoughtful consideration,
but in the right to challenge it is the right to go outside of it,
and certainly nothing can afford more light or persuasion than
the utterances of the same tribunal on prior and subsequent
occasions.
These propositions then are established; the exemption
granted to the bank in 1833 and 1836 was not taken away by
the acts extending its charter and the application thereto of the
constitutions of 1868 and 1879. This was the thing adjudged
in New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, supra.
The exemption of the charter includes a license tax. This,
for the reason stated, must be regarded as part of the contract
between the State and the bank. And in reaching that conclusion the rule requiring a strict construction of statutes exempting property from taxation has not been infringed. We
recognize the force and salutary character of the rule, but it
must not be misunderstood. It is not a substitute for all other
rules. It does not mean that whenever a controversy is or can

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
BREWHR, J., and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

192 U. S.

be raised of the meaning of a statute, ambiguity occurs, which
immediately and inevitably determines the interpretation of
the statute. The decisive simplicity of such effect is very
striking. It conveniently removes all difficulties from judgment in many cases of controverted construction of laws. But
we cannot concede such effect to the rule, nor is such effect
necessary in order to make the rule useful and, at times, decisive. Its proper office is to help to solve ambiguities, not to
compel an immediate surrender to them-to be an element in
decision, and effective, maybe, when all other tests of meaning
have been employed which experience has afforded, and which
it is the duty of courts to consider when rights are claimed
under a statute. Will courts ever be exempt, or have they
ever been exempt from that duty? Has skill in the use of
language over been so universal, or will it ever be so universal
as to make indubitably clear the meaning of legislation? Has
forecast of events ever been so sure, or will it ever be so sure, as
to make inevitably certain all the objects contemplated by a
statute? We think not, and there never will be a time in which
judicial interpretation of laws will not be invoked, and it cannot
be omitted, because a doubt may be asserted concerning the
meaning of the legislators. We repeat, it is the judicial duty
to ascertain if doubt exists.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUsTIcE BREWER, with whom the CHIEF JUSTICE con-

curs, dissenting:
I dissent from the opinion and judgment in this case and will
state briefly my reasons therefor: Where it is contended that a
State having once entered into a contract has by subsequent
legislation impaired its obligations, this court, while exercising
its independent judgment in respect to the terms of the contract
and the fact of impairment, will lean to the views announced
by the courts of that State. In Wilson v. Standefer, 184 U. S.
399, 412, we said:

CITIZENS' BANK v. PARKER.
192 U. S.

BREWER,

J., and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

"But as the general rule is that the interpretation put on a
state constitution or laws by the Supreme Court of such State
is binding upon this court, and as our right to review and revise
decisions of the state courts in cases where the question is of an
impairment by legislation of contract rights, is an exception,
perhaps the sole exception, to the rule, it will be the duty of
this court, even in such a case, to follow the decision of the
state court when the question is one of doubt and uncertainty.
Especial respect should be had to such decisions when the dispute arises out of general laws of a State, regulating its exercise
of the taxing power, or relating to the State's disposition of its
public lands. In such cases it is frequently necessary to recur
to the history and situation of the country in order to ascertain
the reason as well as the meaning of the laws, and knowledge of
such particulars will most likely be found in the tribunals
whose special function is to expound and interpret the state
enactments."
Where it is contended that exemption from taxation has been
granted by contract with the State, the exemption, if any -be
found to exist, will not be extended by construction, but will
be confined to that which is clearly within the terms of the
contract. Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420,
544; Ohio Insurance Co. v. Debolt, 16 How. 416, 435; Railroad
Co. v. Litchfield, 23 How. 66, 88; Railway Co. v. Loftin, 98 U. S.
559, 564; Railroad Co. v. Thomas, 132 U. S. 174, 185; Railroad
Co. v. A lsbrook, 146 U. S. 279, 295; Railroad Co. v. Decatur, 147
U. S. 190; Schurz v. Cook, 148 U. S. 397, 409; Bank v. Tennessee,
161 U. S. 134, 146; Insurance Co. v. Tennessee 161 U. S. 174, 177.
In the last of these cases, on page 177, we said:
"It must always be borne in mind in construing language of
this nature that the claim for exemption must be made out
wholly beyond doubt; for, as stated by Mr. Justice Harlan, in
Chicago, Burlington & Kansas City Railroad v. Guffey, 120
U. S. 569, 575: 'It is the settled doctrine of this court that an
immunity from taxation by a State will not be recognized
unless granted in terms too plain to be mistaken."'

-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
BREWER, J., and the CmEF JusTIcE, dissenting.

192 U. S.

And in next to the last case we also said, on page 146:
"These cases show the principle upon which is founded the
rule that a claim for exemption from taxation must be clearly
made out. Taxes being the sole means by which sovereignties
can maintain their existence, any claim on the part of any one
to be exempt from the full payment of his share of taxes on
any portion of his property must on that account be clearly
defined and founded upon plain language. There must be no
doubt or ambiguity in the language used upon which the claim
to the exemption is founded. It has been said that a well
founded doubt is fatal to the claim; no implication will be
indulged in for the purpose of construing the language used as
giving the claim for exemption, where such claim is not founded
upon the plain and clearly expressed intention of the taxing
power."
Only last term the same doctrine was reaffirmed in Theological Seminary v. Illinois, 188 U. S. 662, 672, in these words:
"The rule is that, in claims for exemption -from taxation
under legislative authority, the exemption must be plainly and
unmistakably granted; it cannot exist by implication only; a
doubt is fatal to the claim."
I make these quotations,, which are in harmony with the
many other decisions of this court, for even the most casual
examination of them makes it apparent that the rule therein
stated is plainly ignored in this case, and that a term, whose
meaning is well understood, is stretched beyond its ordinary
significance and to its utmost limits in order to include the
alleged exemption.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana in this case held that a
license tax was not within the exemption of the bank from any
tax upon its capital, the one being a charge for the privilege
of carrying on the business, and the other an exemption of a
part of the property of the bank from taxation. In the course
of its opinion it said, after referring to a prior case:
"There the tax resisted, like those resisted in the cases relied
on, was, at least, a tax of the same character-that is, a tax

CITIZENS' BANK v. PARKER.
192 U. S.

BREwER, J., and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

upon 'property'-while the tax involved in this litigation is
one essentially different; it is a tax, it is true, but one upon
callings or occupations, and it is controlled and governed by
rules and principles entirely different from those which bear
upon property taxation. City of New Orleans v. Louisiana
Savings Bank, 31 La. Ann. 638; Walters v. Duke, 31 La. Ann.
671; Parishof Morehouse v. Brigham, 41 La. Ann. 665. Articles 203, 206, 207 and 209 of the constitution of 1879 also
disclose this very fully and clearly. See City v. Ernst, 35
La. Ann. 746, and State ex rel. Ernst v. Assessors, 36 La. Ann.
347.
"The defendant urges that the license tax is substantially
one upon its capital. The views expressed by us above indicate our opinion upon this point. The mere reference in the
license acts to the declared or nominal capital or surplus from
business or banking institutions is not a tax upon the capital
or surplus itself of the different banks, but a mere method of
classifying the banks and establishing a graduation of licenses
as required by article 206 of the constitution. State of Louisiana v. Liverpool & London & Globe Insurance Co., 40 La.
Ann. 463; Parish of Morehouse v. Brigham, 41 La. Ann.
665.
"This court, in City of New Orleans v. State National Bank,
34 La. Ann. 892, said: 'A provision in the charter of a corporation exempting its stock and real estate from taxation, does
not cover an exemption from license taxation. The grant of a
charter to a bank, authorizing it to carry on a certain business
during the term of its charter, does not import permission to
do so without contributing to the support of the government
in like manner with natural persons pursuing the same business.'
"The extent of the exemption granted originally from taxation was from 'taxation upon its capital.' It could never have
claimed greater or other exemption than that. The law of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
BREWER, J., and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

'

192 U. S.

1890, the unconstitutionality of which is pleaded, does not pretend to impose, nor does it impose any tax upon the 'bank's
capital,' and, therefore, there could by no possibility be, nor
is there, any violation of any contract obligation through that
act even should there really be any existing obligation at all
between the State and the defendant as to taxation."
That there is a clear distinction between a property tax on
the capital of a corporation and a license tax for the privilege
of carrying on the business of the corporation, has been so
often decided by this and other courts, and is so clear, that it
seems almost a waste of words to refer to decisions. And yet
it may be well to refer to a few that it may be apparent how
strongly, emphatically and for how long a time the distinction
has been affirmed. As a preliminary thereto let it be borne in
mind that the franchise of a corporation is the privilege granted
to it to do the business named in its charter, and a license tax
for the privilege of doing business is simply a tax upon the
franchise. In Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court, 3 How. 133, 150,
decided in 1844, it was said:
"A franchise for banking is in every State of the Union
recognized as property. The banking capital attached to the
franchise is another property, owned in its parts by persons,
corporate or natural, for which they are liable to be taxed, as
they are for all other property, for the support of government."
In Hamilton Co. v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 632, 640:
"Property taxation and excise taxation, as authorized in
the constitution of the State, are perfectly distinct."
In Farringtonv. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679, Mr. Justice Swayne,
after referring to taxation of bank capital and shares of stock,
added (p. 687):
"There are other objects in this connection liable to taxation. It may be well to advert to some of them.
"1. The franchise to be a corporation and exercise its powers
in the prosecution of its business."
In Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117 U. S. 129, 136, Chief Justice
Waite declared:

CITIZENS' BANK r. PARKER.
192 U. S.

BREWER, J., and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

"In corporations four elements of taxable value are sometimes found; 1, franchises; 2, capital stock *inthe hands of the
corporation; 3, corporate property; and, 4, shares of the capital
stock in the hands of the individual stockholders. Each of
these is, under some circumstances, an appropriate subject of
taxation; and it is no doubt within the power of a State, when
not restrained by constitutional limitations, to assess taxes
upon them in a way to subject the corporation or the stockholders to double taxation."
Both of these last cases were cited with approval in Bank of
Commerce v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 134, 146. Many more cases
might be cited to the same effect, but these will serve as illustrations. It is conceded that this distinction was recognized
in Louisiana, though it is contended that it was not always
held sufficient to uphold, in the case of a contract exemption
of the capital, the retention of a power to impose license taxes,
and some early decisions of the Supreme Court of that State
are cited. But what does this argument amount to? Because the distinction between the two taxes has not always
been recognized in Louisiana it must now be repudiated. The
legislature must be held to have not recognized the distinction
in this case, because the courts have sometimes in other cases
failed to recognize it. It is not pretended that there has been
a uniform ruling on the part of the Supreme Court of Louisiana
ignoring the distinction. On the contrary, this very case (and
this is only one of several) recognizes it. It seems to me this
is a plain overturning of the hitherto settled rule of this court,
that a doubt is to be resolved in favor of a State, for the alleged
doubt in this particular case is resolved in favor of the corporation.
But upon what ground is it claimed that a doubt exists?
Why should not the legislature be credited with recognizing
the distinction recognized elsewhere through the country and
sometimes at least, if not always, in Louisiana? It is said that
there is something peculiar in the organization of this bank;
that its purpose was to aid the agricultural interests of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
BREwER, J., and the CHIEr JUSTICE, dissenting.

192 U. S.

State, and that the State assisted by a loan of its credit and
retained partial control through directors appointed by it.
But is it not the rule that an exemption from taxation is not
given as a gratuity, but by reason of some supposed benefit to
the State as a whole or some particular interest therein? Does
the fact that some interest in the State is specially benefited
change the rule as to the construction of an exemption? It
seems to me that that is a doctrine as novel as it is dangerous.
It is true that the State loaned its credit and retained a partial
control through directors appointed by it, but we have in the
legislation of Congress and in the decisions of this court a very
suggestive analogy. The Union Pacific Railroad Company
was a corporation chartered by Congress. It was given a large
amount of public lands and the credit of the United States was
loaned to it to the extent of $16,000 and over a mile. A partial
control was retained through directors appointed by the government. In these respects it presents a close similarity to
the Citizens' Bank. It was held by this court that while the
franchise given by Congress to this and other transcontinental
railroads was exempt from state taxation, yet the property
belonging to those corporations was not. Californiav. Pacific
Railroad Company, 127 U. S. 1; Thomson v. Pacific Railroad, 9
Wall. 579; Railroad Company v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5. It was
not doubted that Congress could in its discretion have provided
for such exemption, but as it failed to prescribe it, the court
held that it did not exist. If from the fact that the corporation was aided by bonds of the United States, was engaged in
doing the work of the nation in interstate transportation and a
partial control retained by Congress, that its property as well
as its franchise was exempt from state taxation, why should
there be an inference from the fact that Louisiana aided by its
bonds this particular corporation and retained a partial control
thereof; that it intended to grant any other exemption than
was expressly stated?
Again, it is contended that contemporaneous construction
determines that the exemption of the capital included the

CITIZENS' BANK v. PARKER.
192 U. S.

BRnwER, J., and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

exemption of the franchise. It seems to me a sufficient answer
is that in 1853 the Supreme Court held that a provision exempting the capital stock of a bank from taxation, except at a
particular rate, exempted the bank from a license tax. City
of New Orleans v. Southern Bank, 11 La. Ann. 41. It is not
strange that thereafter there was no effort to impose a license
tax on this bank and that the administrative officers respected
the opinion of the Supreme Court, and did not until of late seek
a reconsideration of that ruling. It also appears that there
was no specific statute providing for a license tax upon banks
until 1869, and that was after the decision of the. Supreme
Court referred to.
It is also said that if a license tax on the franchise is enforced
it must be paid out of the capital and so in effect be a tax upon
the capital. That argument would make in every case an
exemption of the capital a relief from all taxation, for every
tax must in the last analysis come out of the capital. But
what under those circumstances becomes of the doctrine of a
strict construction of a contract exemption of taxes?
Further, it must be remembered that objects and means of
taxation were not in the years past sought for with the same
avidity as at present. The demand for revenue was not so
great, and there was much inattention to the matter of securing objects and devising modes of taxation. So the mere fact
that a particular kind of tax was not sought to be enforced
upon any institution is not conclusive of the fact that it was
necessarily exempt therefrom. It may simply mean that other
objects seemed to the taxing authorities more accessible and
more conveniently reached for taxation. At any rate, we are
not justified in holding that the mere fact of an omission to
press such a taxation upon the bank establishes that such a
tax was included within the exemption in the face of a ruling
of the highest court of the State that it was not.
For these reasons I am constrained to dissent from the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

also dissents.

