CROSSIV AN v. LURMAN.
192 U. S.

Syllabus.

well recognized rights and duties of carriers. The defendant
should not, therefore, have been deprived of the possession of
the goods without a repayment of the duties.
It is insisted, however, that the goods were shipped in bond
to St. Louis, that the Canadian Pacific for its own convenience
wrongfully changed their bonded destination to the port of St.
Paul, and that during the examination and inspection at St.
Paul some of the curios were broken, and some lost, whereas
if they had been shipped in bond to St. Louis they might have
been opened and examined in the presence of the plaintiff and
injury and loss prevented. Conceding this, and that the
Canadian Pacific by its wrongful act was liable for the injuries
resulting to the plaintiff, the contract of shipment stipulated
that each of the parties employed in the carriage should be
liable only for loss or damage accruing upon its own road, and
that such carriers should not be jointly liable, nor either for
any loss or damage accruing upon the road of the other; so
that whatever claim the plaintiff may have had for such injury
and loss was only against the Canadian Pacific, and could not
operate to prevent the defendant company from receiving that
-which by its payment it was entitled to.
The judgment of the St. Louis Court of Appeals is reversed and
the case remanded to that court for further proceedings not
inconsistentwith this opinion.

CROSSMAN v. LURMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 117. Argued December 18, 1903.-Decided January 11, 1904.

Chapter 661, § 41, 1893, of the Laws of New York, prohibiting the sale of
adulterated food and drugs is not repugnant to the commerce clause of
the Federal Constitution but is a valid exercise of the police power of the
State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

192 U. S.

A contract made in New York, for the sale of goods to be delivered and
stored in New York on arrival from a foreign port is a New York contract governed by the laws of New York even though the buyers be
residents of another State.
The Act of Congress of August 30, 1890, 26 Stat. 414, prohibiting importation into the United States of adulterated and unwholesome food is not
such an action of Congress on the subject as deprives the States of their
police power to legislate for the prevention of the sale of articles of food
so adulterated as to come within valid prohibitions of their statutes.
The fact that a demand exists for articles of food so adulterated by fraud
and deception as to come within the prohibitions of a state statute does
not bring the right to deal therein under the commerce clause of the
Constitution so that such dealings cannot be controlled by the State in
the valid exercise of its police power.
A purchaser cannot be compelled to accept or to pay damages for non-acceptance of an article of food so adulterated as to come within the provisions of a state statute prohibiting the sale thereof because notwithstanding the adulteration it is equal in grade to a standard specified in
the contract.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederic R. Kellogg, with whom Mr. Arthur J. Baldwin
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The state statute so far as it is sought to affect a contract
between citizens of the State of New York, as sellers, and citizens of another State, as buyers, and relating to goods which
at the time of the contract were located in a foreign country,
and which pursuant to the contract were to be imported into
the United States, is unconstitutional as an interference with
foreign and interstate commerce, and cannot be defended as
an exercise of the police power of the State of New York.
Plumley v. Massachusetts has no application to this case.
The universally recognized basis of the police power of a
State is the right to protect the health, morals, safety and
property of its citizens. License cases, 5 How. 504; Sherlock
v. Alling, 93 U. S. 103; Robbins v. Taxing District, 120 U. S.
489; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 476; Bowman v. R. R., 125
U. S. 465; Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114, 122; Brimmer
v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 282; Crutcherv. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47;
United States v. Knight, 156 U. S. 1; West. Union T. Co. v.

CROSSMAN v. LURMAN.
192 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

James, 162 U. S. 653; Re Sanders, 52 Fed. Rep. 807; Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania,
171 U. S.1, 24; Railroad v. Ohio, 173 U. S.285.
It is universally accepted as the law that not only is this
police power based upon the right of the State to protect its
own citizens in matters of purely local concern, but further
that the exercise of this power is limited by the necessity which
exists for such protection. HannibalR. R. v. Husen, 95 U. S.
465; Mo. R. R. v. Haber, 169 U. S.628; Walling v. Michigan,
116 U. S.446.
Plaintiffs in error were deprived of constitutional rights in
that they were not allowed to show among other things that
the coffees in question were imported for the purpose of being
resold in the southern and southwestern States of this country
and not in the State of New York, and that therefore the police
power of the State of New York could have no proper operation with regard to such coffees, and not being allowed to
show that colored coffees precisely like those in question had
been for a large number of years, established and recognized
commercial articles in various portions of the United States
other than the State of New York, and that therefore the
statute in question as applied to deliveries of such coffees in
the original packages in which they were imported into the
United States and to non-residents of the State of New York
was unconstitutional and void. Schollenbergerv. Pennsylvania,
171"U. S.1, 7.
The goods in question, even in the light of the jury's verdict,
are not such improper articles as to be deprived of the protection afforded by the Constitution of the United States to
articles of commerce.
The State could not under the guise of its police power prevent the sale of these goods in New York in the original packages inwhich they were imported. Schollenbergerv. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S.1, 28; Hornblank v. Lagarle, 60 Fed. Rep. 191.
As Congress has in the exercise of its power enacted legislation as to the importation of adulterated foods pursuant to

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

192 U. S.

the terms of which the coffees in question were not adulterated
and were properly imported into the United States, and as
these coffees had been inspected and admitted into the United
States by the United States officials, a state statute in effect
prohibiting the delivery of such coffees in the original packages in which they were imported is unconstitutional and void.
Mr. Charles Stewart Davison for defendants in error:
The statute covers the case of the admixture of any ingredient which may render such article injurious to the health
of the person consuming it; and the case of the mixing with
the food of any substance so as to injuriously affect its quality.
It will be on all hands conceded that this general law of the
State of New York is not in any wise or aspect an act passed
in bad faith with the intent or for the purpose of indirectly
effecting some other result than that which is apparent upon
its face. The many attacks which have been made before
this court on state statutes which have attempted to interfere
with commerce with foreign nations or between the States
under the guise of being an exercise of the police power of the
particular State find no parallel here. Indeed, no such suggestion is made. The statute contemplates only proper objects, under the decisions of this court, and stands as a
valid exercise of the police power of the State in the nature
perhaps of an inspection law, and permitting the state authorities under it at any time to lawfully exclude from the
State or confiscate any article of food obnoxious to its provisions. Bowman v. Chicago & Northwestern R. R. Co., 125
U. S. 465; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1; Plumley
v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461. See opinion of Court of Appeals by Mr. Justice Haight, 171 N. Y. 329. For similar statutes of other States, see Alabama, Code, §4074, adopted 1866;
Texas, Penal Code, art. 432, 1894; Mississippi, Rev. Stat. 1892,
§§ 2095, 2096; Tennessee, Code 1884,§ 4829 (M. and V. 5632);
Louisiana, Rev. Stat. 751, Laws, 1880, act. 20, p. 23; Laws, 1882,
act 82, p. 103; Missouri, Rev. Stat. 1889, §3879, and see act

CROSSMAN i. LURIDAN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Congress 1890, ch. 839, §§ 2, 3. As to attitude of defendant
in error, see Matter of Lurman, 90 Hun, 303, 309.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The law of the State of New York contained the following:
"SE C. 41. Adulterations.-No person shall within the State
manufacture, produce, compound, brew, distill, have, sell or
offer for sale any adulterated food or drug. An article shall
be deemed to be adulterated within the meaning of this act:
.

.

.

in the case of food,

.

.

(6) if it be colored or

coated, or polished, or powdered, whereby damage is concealed, or it is made to appear better than it really is, or of
-greater value." Laws of the State of New York of 1893, c. 661,
section 41, being chapter 25 of the General Laws of the State
of New York.
With these provisions in force, in July, 1894, the firm of
Crossman & Brothers, hereafter referred to as the sellers, residents of New York city, by contract made in New York, sold
to the firm of Theodore G. Lurman & Company, hereafter
referred to as the buyers, residents of Baltimore, five hundred
bags of Rio coffee, one-half the bags to be No. 8 grade and the
other half No. 9 grade. It was stipulated that the coffee was
to be shipped from Rio Janeiro to New York city by a designated steamer, the coffee to be sound or to be made sound by
the sellers. The grades 8 and 9 referred to in the memorandum of sale were standard types, bearing those numbers,
established by the Coffee Exchange of the city of New York,
and it was agreed that the coffee was to be of the average of
such types, and differences arising on the subject were to be
determined by a "grader," to be selected by each of the parties, the two to select a third in the event of a disagreement,
his decision to be conclusive. It was stipulated that on the
arrival of the steamer and the storage of the coffee in New
York the buyers were to have the advantage of the first
month's storage and fire insurance, free of expense.
VOL. cxcii-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

In due time the named steamer reached the port of New
York, and the five hundred bags of coffee were stored and
Some
delivery tendered in New York city to the buyers.
of the coffee was accepted and the remainder was rejected,
on the ground that it was adulterated, because it had been
artificially colored by coating the beans with a yellow wash.
Without going into the details of what transpired between the
parties as a result of the refusal to accept the coffee, it suffices,
for this case, to say that ultimately the graders provided for
in the contract were named, and on their disagreement a third
was selected, who decided that, although the coffee had been
coated with the wash, its average quality was yet equal to the
specified types of the Coffee Exchange referred to in the contract. The buyers refused to abide by this finding and to.
accept delivery and pay for the adulterated coffee. The sellers
then disposed of the coffee for account of the buyers, and commenced this suit to recover the difference between the amount
produced by the alleged sale and the contract price. During
the course of the litigation two trials were had, and the cause
was twice passed on by the appellate division of the Supreme
Court in and for the first judicial department. On the first
hearing in the Supreme Court it was held, in accord with a
decision of the Court of Appeals of the State of New York,
rendered in a collateral controversy which grew out of the
refusal to accept the coffee, In re Lurman, 149 N. Y. 588, that
if the coffee was adulterated, within the statute of the State
of New York, the buyers were not bound to accept, despite
the finding of the grader that it conformed to the types of the
Coffee Exchange, referred to in the contract. Finally, all
incidental questions being eliminated, the cause was tried on
the distinct issue whether the coffee was adulterated within
the provisions of the statute. There was a verdict and judgment for the buyers, which was affirmed by the appellate
division of the Supreme Court in and for the first judicial
department. The cause having been then taken to the Court
of Appeals of the State of New York, the court affirmed the

CROSSMAN v. LURAIAN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

judgment of the Supreme Court and remitted the record to
that court. 171 N. Y. 329. Because of such remittitur this
writ of error to the Supreme Court is prosecuted to review the
judgment of the Court of Appeals.
Concerning the facts of the case the Court of Appeals said,
p. 335:
"The coffee tendered by the plaintiffs, which was rejected,
was of a low grade, containing many poor, withered and black
beans. It, confessedly, was colored and the beans coated with
a yellowish substance. It is not contended that the. coloring
matter improved the taste or added to the value of the coffee.
It is claimed that the only purpose of the coloring was to hide
the character of the poor beans and to make them appear of
the same character as the good coffee. The jury has found
by its verdict that it was so colored as to conceal the damaged
portions, or make it to appear better than it really was, or of
greater value to the ordinary, untrained observer. In other
words, that it was adulterated for the purposes of fraud and
deception."
Applying the provisions of the health laws of the State of
New York concerning the adulteration of food products already
referred to, it was decided that the court below had correctly
held that there was no obligation on the part of the buyer to
take delivery and pay for the coffee if fraudulently colored in
violation of the prohibitions of the statute. Coming to consider the contention of the sellers, that the provision of the law
of the State in question was repugnant to the commerce clause
of the Constitution of the United States, the Court of Appeals
said, p. 331:
"The States have no power to regulate commerce with foreign countries or with each other. This power has been delegated to the Congress of the United States, and that body can,
by law, determine what shall or shall not be permitted to be
imported. With the right of importation follows the right of
sale in original packages, and therefore the States cannot prohibit the sale of articles of commerce within their borders.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

The States cannot, under the guise of inspection, or under
their reserved police powers, prohibit the importation into their
jurisdictions of sound meat, under the pretense that it may
be damaged or decayed, or Texan cattle for fear they may be
diseased, or spirituous or malt liquors for fear that they may
intoxicate, or oleomargarine for fear it may be adulterated.
Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465; Bowman v. C. & N. W.
Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 465; Leisy v. Hardin,135 U. S. 100; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1."
Having thus fully conceded the plenary operation of the
Constitution of the United States upon interstate and foreign
commerce, the court proceeded to decide that the statute of
the State of New York which it upheld was not repugnant to
the commerce clause of the Constitution, because the State in
its enactment but exerted its reserved police power to legislate
for the protection of the health and safety of the community
and to provide against deception or fraud. In support of this
theory the court cited from the decisions of this court, to which
it had referred, as showing the general rule, and additionally
fortified its conclusion by reference to and citations from the
opinion of this court in Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S.461.
All but three of the many propositions embraced in the assignment of errors and urged at bar rest on the contention that
the Court of Appeals misconceived the extent of the police
power of the State, and therefore erroneously decided that the
law of the State of New York which was applied to the case
was not repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution
of the United States. We shall not at any length undertake
to review the argument made at bar to sustain this proposition,
since its unsoundness will be fully demonstrated by a mere
reference to the previous decisions of this court, upon which
the court below based its conclusions. Indeed, every contention here urged to show that the law of New York is repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States was fully and expressly considered and negatived by the decision of this court
in Plumley v. Massachusetts, supra. In that case a law of the

CROSSAIAN v. LURMAN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

State of Massachusetts forbidding the sale of oleomargarine,
which was artificially colored, was applied to a sale in Massachusetts of an original package of that article which had been
manufactured in and shipped from the State of Illinois. In
the course of a full review of the previous cases relating to the
subject it was said, p. 472:
"If there be any subject over which it would seem the States
ought to have plenary control, and the power to legislate in
respect to which it ought not to be supposed was intended to
be surrendered to the general government, it is the protection
of the people against fraud and deception in the sale of food
products. Such legislation may, indeed, indirectly or incidentally affect trade in such products transported from one
State to another State. But that circumstance does not show
that laws of the character alluded to are inconsistent with the
power of Congress to regulate commerce among the States.
For, as said by.this court in Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S.99, 103:
'In conferring upon Congress the regulation of commerce, it
was never intended to cut the States off from legislating on all
subjects relating to the health, life and safety of their citizens,
though the legislation might indirectly affect the commerce
of the country. Legislation, in a great variety of ways, may
affect commerce and persons engaged in it without constituting a regulation of it within the meaning of the Constitution.
.
. And it may be said generally, that the legislation of
a State, not directed against commerce or any of its regulations, but relating to the rights, duties, and liabilities of citizens, and only indirectly and remotely affecting the operations
of commerce, is of obligatory force upon citizens within its
territorial jurisdiction, whether on land or water, or engaged
in commerce, foreign or interstate, or in any other pursuit."'
-

Again, it was said, p. 478:
"And yet it is supposed that the owners
which has been put in a condition to cheat
believing that it is a particular article of food
eagerly sought by people in every condition

of a compound
the public into
in daily use and
of life, are pro-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

tected by the Constitution in making a sale of it against the
will of the State in which it is offered for sale, because of the
circumstance that it is an original package, and has become
a subject of ordinary traffic. We are unwilling to accept this
view. We are of opinion that it is within the power of a State
to exclude from its markets any compound manufactured in
another State, which has been artificially colored or adulterated
so as to cause it to look like an article of food in general use,
and the sale of which may, by reason of such coloration or
adulteration, cheat the general public into purchasing that
which they may not intend to buy. The Constitution of the
United States does not secure to any one the privilege of defrauding the public."
The assertion that the statute of the State of New York
which the court below, applied is repugnant to the commerce
clause of the Constitution of the United States being thus
shown to be devoid of merit, there remains only to be considered the three propositions to which we have previously adverted. We shall briefly consider and dispose of them.
1st. It is insisted that, even although it was in the power of
the State of New York to legislate for the prevention of fraud
and deception by forbidding the sale of the adulterated food
products, such prohibition could only operate upon contracts
made within or intended to be executed within the State, and
as the contract here in controversy was not of such character,
therefore the law of the State of New York was erroneously
held to control. This proposition is based on the assumption
that because the buyers of the coffee were residents of Maryland, therefore the contract must be treated as having been
made for the purpose of securing the shipment of the coffee
from Rio Janeiro to the residence of the buyers, hence the
city of New York was referred to in the contract merely as the
port of entry. It is insisted, per contra, that this proposition
was not relied upon at the trial, nor called to the attention of
the Court of Appeals of the State of New York, and should not
be now considered, because if it had been raised below it would

CROSSMAN v. LURMAN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

have been met by proof showing that the buyers, although
residents of Maryland, were engaged in carrying on a business
for the sale of coffee in New York city. The suggestion that
the proposition was not made below is borne out by the fact
that it was not referred to by the Court of Appeals of the State
of New York or in the several opinions handed down by the
Supreme Court of the State of New York during the course
of the protracted litigation which the cause has engendered.
Be this as it may, however, we think the proposition is devoid
of merit. The contract of sale was made in New York; the
storage and delivery in the city of New York was therein provided for. It was clearly, therefore, a New York contract and
governed by the law of New York.
2d. It is urged that, even although there was power in the
State of New York to legislate on the subject of adulteration
of food, such legislation ceased to be operative as regards food
products imported into the United States through the channels
of foreign commerce after the passage of the act of Congress
approved August 30, 1890, "providing for the inspection of
means for exportation, prohibiting the importation of adulterated articles of food or drink, and authorizing the President to
26 Stat. 414. The
make proclamation in certain cases."
second section of that act, it is insisted, does not exclude
from importation adulterated food but simply adulterated food
which is mixed with any poisonous or noxious chemical, drug
or other ingredient injurious to health, which it is urged was
not the case with the coffee in question. The language of the
section upon which this contention is based is as follows:
"That it shall be unlawful to import into the United States
any adulterated or unwholesome food or drug, or any vinous,
spirituous or malt liquors, adulterated or mixed with any
poisonous or noxious chemical, drug or other ingredient injurious to health."
We think it unnecessary to determine whether the statute
lends even color to the proposition, since we think it is clear
that its effect, whatever be its import, was not to deprive the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

State of its police power to legislate for the benefit of its people
in the prevention of deception and fraud, and thus to control
sales made within the State of articles so adulterated as to
come within the valid prohibitions of the state statute.
3d. In the trial court the plaintiff tendered evidence to demonstrate that there was a demand in some portions of the
country for artificially colored coffee, and to the ruling of the
court excluding such testimony as irrelevant exception was
saved. Although the Court of Appeals, in its opinion, did not
make any special reference to the subject, it is insisted that
the question was called to its attention, and that in affirming
the judgment it in effect sustained the action of the trial court
in excluding the testimony, and thereby deprived the plaintiff
of rights secured under the Constitution of the United States.
The effect of the evidence, it is argued, had it been admitted,
would have been to show that coffee artificially colored as a
means of fraud and deception was a recognized article of commerce, and therefore the right to deal in it was protected by
the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States,
and such dealings could not, therefore, be controlled by the
state law. To state the proposition we think is to answer it.
It, moreover, is disposed of by the decisions of this court to
which we have previously referred. Besides, the question
which the case involved was the right of the sellers to contract
for and deliver in the State of New York an article so adulterated and fraudulent as to be within the prohibitions of the law
of New York. Further, the proof tending to show that coffee
so adulterated and artificially colored as to be the convenient
means of accomplishing fraud and deceit was in demand in
some places outside of the State of New York, could have no
legitimate tendency to cause trade in the adulterated and
fraudulently deceptive article to become legitimate commerce.

Affirmed.

