OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Counsel for Parties.

192 U. S.

approved March 3, 1903, 32 Stat. 1213, c. 1012. The latter
act was approved after the Gonzales litigation was moved, but
it is worthy of notice that the words "United States" as used
in the title and throughout the act were required to be construed to mean "the United States and any waters, territory
or other place now subject to the jurisdiction thereof." ยง 33.
The definition indicates the view of Congress on the general
subject.
Gonzales was not a passenger from a foreign port, and was a
passenger "from territory or other place" subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
In order to dispose of the case in hand, we do not find it
necessary to review the Chinese exclusion acts and the decisions of this court thereunder.
Final order reversed and cause remanded with a direction to
dischargeGonzales.

SINCLAIR v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 94. Argued December 14, 1903.-Decided January 4, 1904.
As ยง 233 of the Code of the District requires the same construction as
ยง. 8 of the act of February 9, 1893, this court has no jurisdiction to
review, on writ of error, a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in a criminal case. Chapman v. United States, 164
U. S. 436.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. C. C. Cole and Mr. J. J. Darlingtonfor plaintiff in error.
Submitted for defendant in error by Mr. A. B. Duvall and
Mr. Edward H. Thomas.

SINCLAIR v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Plaintiff in error was prosecuted by information in the Police
Court of the District of Columbia, for a violation of an act of
Congress, approved February 2, 1899, entitled "An act for
the prevention of smoke in the District of Columbia, and for
other purposes," 30 Stat. 812, c. 79, and was found and adjudged guilty, and sentenced "to pay a fine of fifty dollars and
in default to be committed to the workhouse for the term of
ninety days." The judgment was affirmed by the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia, 20 D. C. App. 336, brought
here on error, and argued on the merits and on motion to dismiss.
The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia was established by an act of Congress, approved February 9, 1893, 27
Stat. 434, c. 74, section 8 of which was as follows:
"That any final judgment or decree of the said court of
appeals may be re-examined and affirmed, reversed, or modified by the Supreme Court of the United States, upon writ of
error or appeal, in all causes in which the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs, shall exceed the sum of five thousand dollars,
in the same manner and under the same regulations as heretofore provided for in cases of writs of error on judgment or appeals from decrees rendered in the supreme court of the District of Columbia; and also in cases, without regard to the sum
or value of the matter in dispute, wherein is involved the
validity of any patent or copyright, or in which is drawn in
question the validity of a treaty or statute of or an authority
exercised under the United States."
On March 3, 1901, an act "to establish a code of law for the
District of Columbia," 31 Stat. 1189, c. 854, was approved,
(and subsequently amended by acts approved January 31 and
June 30, 1902, 32 Stat. 2, c. 5; 32 Stat. 520, c. 1329,) section 233
of which provides that"Any final judgment or decree of the court of appeals may
VOL. cxcIi-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

be re-examined and affirmed, reversed, or modified by the
Supreme Court of the United States, upon writ of error or
appeal, in all cases in which the matter in dispute, exclusive
of costs, shall exceed the sum of five thousand dollars, in the
same manner and under the same regulations as existed in
cases of writs of error on judgments or appeals from decrees
rendered in the supreme court of the District of Columbia on
February ninth, eighteen hundred and ninety-three, and also
in cases, without regard to the sum or value of the matter in
dispute, wherein is involved the validity of any patent or copyright, or in which is drawn in question the validity of a treaty
or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United
States."
It will be perceived that section 8 of the one act and section 233 of the other are in substance the same, and they must
bear the same construction. And the ruling in Chapman v.
United States, 164 U. S. 436, in respect of section 8, is decisive
on the point that this writ of error cannot be maintained.
That case, as stated by the court, was this:
"Chapman was indicted in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for an alleged violation of section 102 of the
Revised Statutes, in refusing to answer certain questions propounded to him by a special committee of the Senate of the
United States, appointed to investigate charges in connection
with proposed legislation then pending in the Senate. To this
indictment the defendant demurred on the ground, among
others, that section 102 of the Revised Statutes was unconstitutional, and that, therefore, the court was without jurisdiction in the premises. This demurrer was overruled by the
trial court and its judgment thereon affirmed by the Court
of Appeals of the District. 5 D. C. App. 122. Defendant was
thereupon tried and convicted, and motions for new trial and
in arrest of judgment having been made and overruled (the
question of the constitutionality of section 102 being raised
throughout the proceedings), was sentenced to be imprisoned
for one month in jail and to pay a fine of one hundred dollars,

SINCLAIR v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which judgment was affirmed on appeal. 24 Wash. Law Rep.
251. (8 D. C. App. 302.) A writ of error from this court was
then allowed, 24 Wash. Law Rep. 297, (8 D. C. App. 320,)
which the United States moved to dismiss."
It was held that this court had no jurisdiction to review on
writ of error a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in a criminal case under section eight of the
act of February 9, 1893; and the writ of error was accordingly
dismissed. Attention was called to the fact that it had been
previously decided that the court had no jurisdiction to grant
a writ of error to review the judgments of the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia in criminal cases either under the
judiciary act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, In re
Heath, 144 U. S. 92; or under the act of February 6, 1889,
c. 113, 25 Stat. 655, Cross v, United States, 145 U. S. 571; or
on habeas corpus, Cross v. Burke, 146 U. S.82. And although
the validity of any patent or copyright, or of a treaty or statute
of, or an authority exercised under, the United States, was not
drawn in question in those cases, it was distinctly ruled in
reaching the conclusions announced that neither of the sections of the act of March 3, 1885, applied to any criminal case;
and Farnsworthv. Montana, 129 U. S. 104; United States v.
Sanges, 144 U. S.310, and United States v. More, 3 Cranch, 159,
were cited with approval.
We were of opinion that section eight of the act establishing
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, and the act
of March 3, 1885, c. 355, 23 Stat. 443, were the same in their
meaning and legal effect. The first section of the act of 1885
prohibited appeals or writs of error unless the matter in dispute
exceeded the sum of five thousand dollars, but the second
section provided that the restriction should not apply to cases
wherein the validity of any patent or copyright was involved,
or where the validity of a treaty or statute of or an authority
exercised under the United States was drawn in question, and
that in all such cases an appeal or writ of error might be brought
without regard to the sum or value in dispute. *Andit was

OCTOBER TERMH,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

ruled that the last clause of section eight of the act of 1893
must receive the same construction as had been given to the
second section of the act of 1885. We said: "The meaning
of both statutes is that in the cases enumerated the limitation
on the amount is removed, but both alike refer to cases where
there is a pecuniary matter in dispute, measureable by some
sum or value, and they alike have no application to criminal
cases."
United States v. More, 3 Cranch, 159, was cited to the main
proposition and was quoted from in respect of the suggestion
that because the punishment on conviction by the statute
under which plaintiff in error was indicted, tried and convicted
embraced a fine, there was therefore a sum of money in dispute.
The case involved section eight of the act of February 27,
1801, c. 15, entitled "An act concerning the District of Columbia," 2 Stat. 103, and creating a Circuit Court for the District
of Columbia, which provided "that any final judgment, order
or decree in said Circuit Court, wherein the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs, shall exceed the value of one hundred dollars, may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed in the
Supreme Court of the United States, by writ of error or appeal. . . ." It was held that this court had no jurisdiction
under that section over the judgments of the Circuit Court of
the District of Columbia in criminal cases, and Chief Justice
Marshall said: "On examining the act 'concerning the District
of Columbia,' the court is of opinion, that the appellate jurisdiction, granted by that act, is confined to civil cases. The
words, 'matter in dispute,' seem appropriated to civil cases,
where the subject in contest has a value beyond the sum
mentioned in the act. But in criminal cases, the question is
the guilt or innocence of the accused. And although he may
be fined upwards of $100, yet that is, in the eye of the law, a
punishment for the offence committed, and not the particular
object of the suit."
And the previous ruling that section five of the judiciary
act of 1891 had no application was repeated.

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. KNIGHT.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Chapman's case was decided November 30, 1896, and on
the third of March, 1897, an act was approved which authorized this court to issue writs of certiorari in cases made final
in that court to bring them up for review and determination.
29 Stat. 692, c. 390. This was carried forward into section 234
of the District Code, and in the meantime we had reviewed
the judgment of the Court of Appeals in certain criminal cases
on certiorari granted under the act. Winston v. United States,
172 U. S. 303; 171 U. S. 690.
The rule that applies to capital cases and infamous crimes
applies to criminal offenses over which the police court of the
District of Columbia exercises jurisdiction, and under that
rule this writ of error must be
Dismissed.

STATE OF NEW YORK ex rel. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. KNIGHT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 91. Argued December 11, 1903.-Decided January 4,1904.
Although a railroad corporation may be largely engaged in interstate commerce it is amenable to state regulation and taxation as to any of its
service which is wholly performed within the State and not as a part of
interstate commerce.
A cab service maintained by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company to take
passengers to and from its terminus in the city of New York, for which
the charges are separate from those of other transportation and wholly
for service within the State of New York is not interstate commerce,
although all persons using the cabs within the company's regulations are
either going to or coming from the State of New Jersey by the company's ferry; such cab service is subject to the control of the State of
New York and the railroad company is not exempt, on account of being
engaged in interstate commerce, from the state privilege tax of carrying
on the business of running cabs for hire between points wholly within the
State.

THIS is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
New York to review a judgment of that court affirming the

