OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for.Parties.

court to the Secretary of the Treasury, and such certificate
was to be final and conclusive.
The case resembles in some aspects that of Efxparte Atocka,
17 Wall. 439. It differs from lFigo's case: EX parte United
States, 21 Wall. 648, because the original claim was never
referred to the Court of Claims for such judicial action as
should terminate" in a judgment, but it was only referred to
it by Congress for the purpose of receiving what is termed its
advisory conclusions, upon which Congress would proceed in
its discretion.
But aside from either of the above cited cases, the nature of
the original claim and the manner in which it has been treated
by Congress, and the language of the appropriation, as contained in the act of 1891, all clearly lead to the conclusion
that Congress intended the decision of the Court of Claims to
be final, and that the Secretary of the Treasury should pay
upon receipt of tile certificate provided for in the act.
The motion to dismiss the appeal is, therefore, granted, and
the
Afeal dismised.

UNITED STATES v. HEWECKER.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION

IN

OPINION FOR THE SOUTHERN

DIS-

TRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 547.

Submitted October 13, 1596. -Decided

October 26 1896.

Sections 651 and 697 of the Revised Statutes, relating to certificates of
division in opinion in criminal cases were repealed by the judiciary act
of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, both as to the defendants in criminal prosecutions, and as to the United States; and certificates in such cases cannot be granted upon the request either of the defendants or of the prosecution. 1ider v. United States, 163 U. S. 132, on this point adhered to.
MOTION

to dismiss. The case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr.Abram J. Rose for the motion.
.Xr. Assistant Attorney GeneralDic'inson opposing.

UNITEI) STATES v. HEW-ECKER.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.
court.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

Hewecker was indicted for the murder of one Miller, on
January 17, 1892, in the bay of Havana, off the island of
Cuba, on board an American vessel, within the admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction of the United States and out of the jurisdiction of any particular State, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, that
district being the district in which he was found and into
which he was first brought. To the indictment he entered a
special plea in the nature of a plea in abatement, to the-effect
that the indictment was not found until March 10, 1896; that
Miller died January 21, 1892, in Cuba, without the United
States, and that under and by virtue of section 10-3 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States he could not be prosecuted or tried; that from January 17, 1892, until the date of
the findihg of the indictment he had not fled from justice but
had been confined in a prison at Havana, Cuba, upon a charge
of assault inflicted in that city; and that therefore the offence
with which he was charged by the indictment was barred by
the statute of limitations.
To this'plea the United States
interposed a demurrer and argument was had thereon, whereupon the judges of the Circuit Court, the court being held by
a Circuit Judge and a District Judge, announced that they
were divided in opinion upon certain questions of law arising
on the demurrer, and the points upon which the judges disagreed were at the request of the United States certified to this
court. The case was submitted on a motion to dismiss.
By the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, it was provided that
this court should not have appellate jurisdiction by appeal, by
writ of error, or otherwise, over the Circuit Courts, except
according to the provisions of the act; and jurisdiction was
specifically given in "cases of conviction for a capital or otherwise infamous crime."
In Ride,' v. Undted States, 163 U. S. 132, we decided that
sections 651 and 697 of the Revised Statutes in relation to certificates of division of opinion in criminal cases were repealed

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion ot the Court.

for the reasons given therein. .It is true that in that case the
defendants had been found guilty and that the certificate of
division was on a motion for new trial. The general rule was
that this court could pnot, upon a certificate of division of
opinion, acquire jurisdiction of questions relating to matters
of pfire discretion in the Circuit Court, and, therefore, that a
certificate on a motion for new trial would not lie, but where
the questions presented went directly to the merits of the
case it had been held that jurisdiction might be entertained.
United States v. 1Rosenburgh, 7 Wall. 580. And accordingly
we did not dismiss the certificate because made on a motion
for new trial, since the maintenance of the information at all
depended on the points certified.
In this case it is contended thdt the right of the United
States to proceed upon a certificate of division was not brought
before us in that case and that the reasons assigned by us for
that decision are not clearly applicable here. But we are unable to arrive at any other conclusion and see no reason for a
different opinion on the general question than there expressed.
By the act of March 3, 1891, appellate jurisdiction on error
was given in all criminal cases either to this court or the
Circuit Court of Appeals in favor of the accused, and, as
to them, sections 651 and 697 of the :Revised Statutes did
not remain in force. And if the sections were repealed so far
as defendants were concerned, we think it follows that this
was so as to the United States, and that a certificate which
could not be granted upon the request of the defendants
could not be granted on the request of the prosecution.
In United States v. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310, it was held that
the actof 1S91 did not confer upon the United States the
right to sue out a writ of error in any criminal case, and as
that right was given in favor of the accused in all such cases,
and review by certificate done away with without any specific
saving in favor of the United States, we are of opinion that
the reasoning in Rider v. United States applies, and that the
act furnishes the exclusive rule. The appellate jurisdiction
was increased in many respects by that act and was curtailed
in others, and while enlarged in criminal cases in favor of

UNITED STATES v. KURTZ.
Statement of the Case.

defendants, it was at the same time circumscribed as to the
United States by the specific provisions relating to the particular subject, conceding that under the Revised Statutes
the remedy by certificate was open to be availed of by the
United States.
Certifate dismi8med.

UNITED STATES v. KURTZ.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 530. Submitted October 13, 1896. - Decided October 26, 1S96.

A clerk of a Circuit Court who Is directed by the court to keep a criminal
final record book, in which are to be recorded indictments, informations, warrants, recognizances, judgments and other proceedings, in
prosecutions for violating the criminal laws of the United States, is not
entitled, in computing folios, to treat each document, judgment, etc., as
a separate instrument, but should count the folios of the record as one
instrument continuously from beginning to end.
A clerk's right to a docket fee, as upon issue joined, attaches at the time
such issue is in fact joined, and is not lost by the subsequent withdrawal of the plea which constituted the issue; and this rule applies to
cases in which, after issue joined, the case is discontinued on nol. pros.
entered.
When a list of the jurors, with their residences, is required to be made by
the order or practice of the court, and to be posted up in the clerk's
office or preserved in the files, and no other mode of compensating the
clerk is provided, it may be charged for by the folio.
The clerk is also entitled to a fee for entering an order of court directing
him as to the disposition to be made of moneys received for fines, and
for filing bank certificates of deposit for fines paid to the credit of the
Treasurer of the United States.

Tins was a petition by Kurtz, who was clerk and commissioner of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, for fees alleged to have been earned by him in both
capacities.
The case resulted in the allowance of a large number of
disputed items, and a final judgment in favor of the petitioner in the sum of $165.10. The government appealed, and
VOL. cLxrv---4

