OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

as the other defendants were directly and vitally interested in
the disposition of the cross complaint and necessary parties
to the appeal. Not having been made such, and there being
no summons and severance, or the equivalent, the appeal cannot be sustained. Davis v. J.ercantile Trust Co., 152 U. S.
590; lardee v. Vilsom, 146 U. S. 179.
Indeed this objection is fatal in any view, for while this
record is manifestly inadequate and insufficient, it does appear
and is conceded that the other defendants were before the
Supreme Court of the Territory on their own appeal as well
as Kiesel, Carnahan and Anderson on Wilson's appeal, and
that the case was disposed of as to all of them on a ground
common to all. We cannot be required to consider such a
case by piecemeal, and if we were to take jurisdiction and
determine the questions -which have been argued at the bar,
we should, in fact, be disposing of matters affecting parties
not before us and who have been afforded no opportunity to
be heard.
Apopeal dismissed.

FOWLER v. LAMSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 83

Argued and submitted November 9, 1596. -Decided

November 80, 1896.

The printed record in this case is so fragmentary in its nature as to leave
no foundation for the court to even guess that there was a Federal question in the case, or that it was decided by the state court against thd
right set up here by the plaintiffs in orror; and, under the well settled
rule that where a case is brought to'this court on error or appeal from a
judgment of a state court, unless it appear in the record that a Federal
question was raised in the state court before entry of final judgment in
the case, this court is without jurisdiction, It must. be dismissed.

Tir

case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. E. F. Tiompson. for plaintiffs.in, error. .Mr. G. W.
t
WilDelamater, Afr. Frank H. Clark ad Mr. William -.
kins8 were on his brief.

FOWLER v. LAMSON.
Opinion of the Court.

.r.
. H. Bijbee and Mr&. D. H. Kirton for defendants in
error submitted on their brief.
3iR. JUSTIOB PEcxiHAm

delivered the opinion of the court.

The printed record which is before this court in this case is
so fragmentary in its nature as to leave no foundation for us
to even guess that there was a Federal question in the case or
that it was decided by the state court against the right now
set up by plaintiffs in error.
The record opens with an assignment of errors which it is
alleged were made by the Supreme Court of Illinois, and
fourteen grounds of error are set forth, many of them setting
up that such court, by the judgment in suit, erred in the decision of several Federal questions. Then follows the writ of
error. Then comes what is termed a decree in the case of
George Fowler v. The Cherokee Brilliant Coal and .Mining
Company and others, in the Superior Court of Cook County,
Illinois, which decree, after reciting the fact of a hearing and
a reference to a master in chancery and his report thereon,
proceeds to make certain findings of fact, and to give extracts
from the constitution and statutes of Kansas, which, briefly
stated, are as follows:
(1.) The incorporation of the coal and mining company
under the statutes of Kansas.
(2.) An extract from the constitution and statutes of Kansas providing for a double liability of stockholders of an
insolvent corporation.
(3.) An extract from the statutes of Kansas providing for
the dissolution of corporations and for a recovery against the
stockholders therein for debts due from the company.
(4.) An extract from the statutes of limitation 6f Kansas
relating to absconding or concealed debtors.
(5.) Findings of indebtedness from the coal and mining
company to the Fowlers, plaintiffs in error; the giving of a
note and mortgage for such indebtedness, and default in the
payment thereof and a dissolution of the company.
(6.) The recovery of judgment in Illinois in favor of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs in error herein on account of the debt due them
from the corporation; the issue and return of execution upon
such judgment wholly unsatisfied.
(7.) The ownership of stock in the company by the Lamsons.
Upon these findings the decreo directs a recovery by the
plaintiffs herein against the defendants Lamsons, stockholders
in the dissolved and insolvent corporation, of the amount of
the Illinqis judgment against the corporation which had been
obtained by plaintiffs herein.
This decree is followed in the record by an order made by
the appellate court in Illinois reversing the decree of the
court below. Then follows an assignment of errors committed by the court in ordering such reversal, after which the
opinion of Judge Wilken of the Supreme Court of Illinois is
printed, which affirms the judgment of th appellate court.
In that opinion no Federal question is discussed or decided.
The point actually decided by the Supreme Court of Illinois
was, as shown by that opinion, that the constitution and
statutes of Kansas in relation to the liability of stockholders
in an insolvent corporation provide a special remedy for
enforcing that liability, and that such remedy only could be
pursued, and that the courts of Illinois would not enforce a
statutory liability under a Kansas statute providing a special
remedy against stockholders. Following this opinion is a
decree of affirmance by the Supreme Court of Illinois; after
which comes a petition for a writ of error from this court and
an allowance thereof. This completes the record.
It will be seen that there are no pleadings in the record;
no evidence is returned ; no exceptions to any decision of the
court are to be found; no request to the court to find upon
any Federal question; no refusal of the court to find and
no finding upon any such question. Thus there is an eritire
absence in this whole record of any fact showing that the
Supreme Court of Illinois or either of the lower courts decided any Federal question whatever. The assignment of
errors alleged to have been made by the Illinois Supreme
Court is unavailable for the purpose of showing any Federal
question decided, where the record itself does not show that

LALONE v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

any such question was passed upon by the state court.

Xis-

8ouri Pacifc Railway v. Fitzgerald,160 U. S. 556, 575.
Where a case is brought to this court on error or appeal
from a judgment of a state court, unless it appear in the
record that a Federal question was raised in the state court
before the entry of final judgment in the case, this court is
without jurisdiction. Simmerman v. Nebraska, 116 U. S. 54..
It has also been frequently decided that, to give this court
jurisdiction on writ of error to a state court, it must appear
affirmatively, not only that a Federal question was presented
for decision by the state court, but that its decision was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it was decided
adversely to the party claiming a right under the Federal laws
or'Constitution, or that the judgment as rendered could not
have been given without deciding it. .E stis v. Bolles, 150
U. S. 361; CaliforniaPowder lVorks v. Davis, 151 U. S. 389,
393; Missouri Paci.fc Railway Company v. Fitzgerald,160
U. S. 556, 576.
Nothing of the kind appears from this record, and the writ of
error must, therefore, be
Dismissed.

LALONE v. UNITED STATES.
.APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 4. Submitted October 13, 1896. -Decided

November 30, 1S96.

The rule that in all proceedings instituted to recover moneys or to set aside
afid annul deeds or contracts or other written instruments on the ground
of alleged fraud practised by a defendant upon a plaintiff, the evidence
tending to prove the fraud and upon which to found a verdict or decree
must be clear and satisfactory extends to cases of alleged fraudulent representations, on the faith of which an officer of the government has done
An official act upon which rights of the party making the representations
may be founded; and in this case the evidence on the part of the plaintiff,
when read in connection with that which was given on the part of the
defendants, falls far short of the requirements of the rule.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

