McKEE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

N oKEE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAhIS.
No. 131.

Argued November 3, 1896. -Decided

November 30, 1896.

The last clause of section 4 of the act of March 2, 1891, c. 496, 26 Stat. 822,
entitled "An act to credit and pay to the several States and Territories
and the District of Columbia all moneys collected under the direct tax
levied by the act of Congress approved August 5, 1861," does not refer to
or cover the cases of those owners who are mentioned in the first clause
of the same section.
Brewer v. Blougher, 14 Pet. 178, affirmed to the point that it is the duty of
the court, in construing a statute, to ascertain the meaning of the legislature from tile words used in it, and from the subject-matter to which it
relates, and to restrain its meaning within narrower limits than its words
import, if satisfied that the literal meaning of its language would extend
to cases which the legislature never designed to embrace in it.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. IF S. Monteith for appellants.

_3'. Leroy F. Youmans

was on his brief.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneraZ Dodge for appellees. Mr.
Assistant Attorney Gorman was on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE

PECKHAm delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellants herein have brought this appeal for the
purpose of obtaining a review of a judgment of the Court of
Claims dismissing their petition. No opinion was delivered
by that court in this case, but it was decided upon the authority of the case of Sams v. United States, 27 C. Cl. 266, which
involved the construction of the same statute that is before us
in this case.
It appears by the finding of the court that one Henry
McKee was the owner of certain lands, which are therein
described, in the town of Beaufort, in the parish of St. Helena,
South Carolina, and that while he was such owner the land
was sold for the payment of the direct tax provided for in
section 9, and the following sections of the act approved

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

August 5, 1861, c. 45, entitled "An act to provide increased
revenue from imports, to pay the interest on the public debt,
and for other purposes." 12 Stat. 292. The property was bid
in by the United States and was thereafter resold by the government. The direct tax on the property so sold amounted in
all to $91.52, and upon the resale of such property there was
received into the Treasury of the United States, in excess of
the direct tax, the sum of $5003.41. Henry McKee, the legal
owner of the property at the time of its sale, died some time
thereafter, leaving a will, and the claimants are the beneficiaries thereunder, being his widow and children. These same
claimants have heretofore obtained judgment in the Court of
Claims against the government for the sum of $5680.60 on
account of the same real estate above described. That judg-

ment was obtained, and the claim in this case is founded upon
the act approved March 2, 1891, 26 Stat. 822, entitled "An
act to credit and pay to the several States and Territories and
the District of Columbia all moneys collected under the direct
tax levied by the act of Congress approved August 5, 1861."
The act is set forth in full in the margin.'
An act to credit and pay to the several States and Territories and the District of Columbia all moneys collected under the direct tax levied by the
act of Congress approved August fifth, eighteen hundred and sixty-one.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of .Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That it shall be the duty of the
Secretary of the Treasury to credit to each State and Territory of the
United States and the District of Columbia a sum equal to all collections by
set off or otherwise made from said States and Territories and the District
of Columbia or from any of the citizens or inhabitants thereof or other
persons under tle act of Congress approved August fifth, eighteen hundred
and sixty-one, and the amendatory acts thereto.
SEC. 2. That all m6neys still due to the United States on the quota of
direct tax apportioned by section eight of the act of Congress approved
August fifth, eighteen hundred and sixty-one, are hereby remitted and
relinquished.
SEC. 3. That there is hereby appropriated, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be necessary to
reimburse each State, Territory and the District of Columbia for all money
found due to them under the provisions of this act; and the Treasurer of
the United States is hereby directed to pay the same to the Governors of the
States and Territories and to the Commissioners of the District of Colum-

McKEE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The judgment which the claimants have already obtained
in the Court of Claims was rendered under the first clause in
section 4 of the act. The claim now before the court rests
upon the last clause of section 4, which reads as follows:
"And provided farther, Thai; any sum or sums of money
received into the Treasury of the United States from the sale
of lands bid in for taxes in any State under the laws described
Wit, but no money shall be paid to any State or Territory until the legislature
thereof shall have accepted, by resolution, the sum herein appropriated, and
the trusts imposed, in full satisfaction of all claims against the United States
on account of the levy and collection of said tax, and shall have authorized
the Governor to receive said money for the use and purposes aforesaid:
Provided, That where the sums, or any part thereof, credited to any State,
Territory or the District of Columbia, have been collected by the United
States from the citizens or inhabitants thereof, or any other person, either
directly or by sale of property, such sums shall be held in trust by such
State, Territory or the District of Columbia for the benefit of those persons
or inhabitants from whom they were collected, or their legal representatives: And providedfurther, That no part of the money collected from individuals and to be held in trust as aforesaid shall be retained by the United
States as a set off against any indebtedness alleged to exist against the State,
Terrltory or District of Columbia in which such tax was collected: And
providedfurther, That no part of the money hereby appropriated shall be
paid out by the Governor of any State or Territory or any other person to
any attorney or agent under any contract for services now existing or heretofore made between the representative of any State or Territory and any
attorney or agent. All claims under the trust hereby created shall be filed
with the Governor of such State or Territory aud the Commissioners of the
District of Columbia, respectively, within six years.next after the passage
of this act; and all claims not so filed shall be forever barred, and the money
attributable thereto shall belong to such State, Territory or the District of
Columbia, respectively, as the case may be.
SEc. 4. That it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to pay
to such persons as shall in each case apply therefor, and furnish satisfactory evidence that such applicant was at the time of the sales hereinafter
mentioned the legal owner, or is the heir at law or devisee of the legal
owner of such lands as were sold in the parishes of Saint Helena and Saint
Luke's in the State of South Carolina, under the said acts of Congress, the
value of said lands in the manner following, to wit: To the owners of the
lots in the town of Beaufort, one half of the value assessed thereon for
taxation by the United States direct tax commissioners for South Carolina;
to the owners of lands which were rated for taxation by the State of South
Carolina as being usually cultivated, five dollars per acre for each acre
thereof returned on the proper tax book; to the owners of all other lands,
VOL. CLXIV-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

in the first section of this act in excess of the tax assessed
thereon shall be paid to the owners of the land so bid in and
resold, or to their legal heirs or representatives." We think
this proviso does not apply to the owners of lands described in
the first clause of the section.
A perusal of the entire act shows that its purpose was to
pay back to the States or to individual citizens of States
one dollar per acre for each acre thereof returned on said tax book: Provided,
That in all cases where such owners, or persons claiming under them, have
redeemed or purchased said lands, or any part thereof, from the United
States, they shall not receive compensation for such part so redeemed or
purchased; and any sum or sums held or to be held by the said State of
South Carolina in trust for any such owner under section three of this act
shall be deducted from the sum due to such owner under the provisions of
this section: And providedfurther, Thatin all cases where said owners have
heretofore received from the United States the surplus proceeds arising
from the sale of their lands,. such sums shall be deducted from the sum
which they are entitled to receive under this act. That in all cases where
pdrsons, while serving in the Army or Navy or Marine Corps of the United
States, or who had been honoiably discharged from said service, purchaseil
any of said lands under section eleven of the act of Congress approved June
seventh, eighteen hundred and-sixty-two, and such lands afterwards revertect
to the United States, it shall be'the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to pay
to such persons as shall in each case apply therefor, or to their heirs at law,
devisees or grantees, in good faith and for valuable consideration, whatever
sum was so paid to the United States in such case. That before paying any
money to such persons the Secretary of the Treasury shall require the person
or persons entitled to receive the same to execute a release of all claims and
demands of every kind and description whatever against the United States
arising out of the execution of said acts, and also a release of all right, title
and interest in and to the said lands. That there is hereby appropriated,
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum pf
fiVe hundred thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary to
pay for said lots and lands, which sum shall include all moneys in the
Treasury derived in any manner from the enforcement of said acts in said
parishes, and not oiherwise appropriated. That section one thousand and
'sixty-three of the Revised Statutes is hereby made applicable to claims
arising under this act without limitation as to the amount involved in such
claim: And provided further,That any sum or sums of money received into
the Treasury of the United States from the sale of lands bid in for taxes in
'any State under the laws described in the first section of this act in excess
of the tax assessed thereon shall be paid to the owners of thb land so bid In
and resold, or to their legal heirs or representatives.
Approved, March 2, 1891.

XcKEE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the amounts of money received from them in the course of the
execution of the direct tax act of 1861 and the acts amendatory thereof. The first section of the act provides for the
crediting by the Secretary of the Treasury to each State, etc.,
a sum equal to all collections by set off or otherwise made
from said States or from any of the citizens or inhabitants
thereof or other persons, under the act of Congress therein
mentioned. Provision is thus made for the amount that had
been collected by the United States.
The second section provides for the remission and relinquishment of all moneys still due to the United States under the
direct tax apportioned by section 8 of the above-mentioned
act of Congress. The third section appropriates moneys for
the purpose of rein'ibursing each State for all money found
due under the provisions of the act, and various. conditions are
therein imposed relative to the payment of such moneys. By
the first clause of the fourth section special provision is made
for the payment to the legal owners or their heirs of such lands
as were sold in the parishes of St. Helena and St. Luke's in the
State of South Carolina under this direct tax act. Those
owners or their representatives were to be paid for their lands
which had been sold, and the value thereof was to be ascertained in the manner provided by the fourth section. Full
and special provision was thus made in the clauses preceeding
the last clause of section 4 for the owners of lands which had
been sold under the direct tax act in the parishes of St. Helena
and St. Luke's in the State of South Carolina. The reimbursement of the owners in those particular parishes for their lands
which had been sold was to be after the standard which was'
provided for in the clauses quoted.
There were, however, cases where lands had been sold under
this direct tax act in other parishes of the State of South Carolina and in other States. There was added to the act of 1891
the last clause of section 4, which would cover all such cases,
and we are of opinion that this last clause does not refer to or
cover the cases of those owners who are mentioned in the first
clause of the same section. Otherwise this curious result might,
and in this particular case would, follow. The owners of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

land at the time of its sale would recover under the first clause
a greater amount than the government actually received upon
its resale of the land pursuant to the provisions of the direct
tax act. That result would be accomplished by the rule provided in the first clause for arriving at the sum to be paid by
the government without reference to the amount actually received by it. But in addition to that and under the provisions
of the last clause as construed by plaintiffs in error, the
owners would be entitled to recover all the moneys received
into the Treasury of the United States upon the sale of such
lands for taxes, under the direct tax act, in excess of the taxes
assessed thereon. In this case these claimants have already
obtained judgment against the government for $5680.60, and
all that the government has received upon the sale of the
property (above the taxes on such land, which were $91.52) is
$5003.41. By that judgment, therefore, the government must
pay nearly six-hundred dollars more than it ever received on
account of the land, and in addition to that, if thie claimants'
interpretation of the statute be the correct one, the government
must pay five thousand dollars more to the owners of the same
lands. We cannot think that this was the intention of Congress. To give back as much as it has received over and above
the original tax would seem to be dealing with a good deal of
liberality with the owners. The fact is well known as a matter of contemporaneous history, and it was so stated by counsel on the argument, that upon the sale of lands which the
United States had bid in by virtue of the provisions of the
direct tax act of 1861, and which were sold thereafter under
the provisions of section 11 of the act of June 7, 1862, c. 98,
entitled "An act for the collection of direct taxes in insurrectionary districts within the United States, and for other purposes," 12 Stat. 422, the amounts of such sales were frequently
and generally very much less than the real value of the property sold. This was no fault of the government, however,
and resulted in no benefit to it. By the rule adopted in the
first clause of section 4 of the act of 1891 for ascertaining the
amount which was to be paid the former owners of the property that had been sold, the sum which the United States

McKEE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

would have to pay to those legal owners might and probably
would be much in excess of the sums which the government
had actually received, so that in numerous cases there would
be a pure gratuity on the part of the government to those
owners. The language would have to be very plain to call
for such a construction of the last proviso in section 4 as would
give in addition to a gratuity a still further sum amounting to
the surplus received by the government over and above the
amount of the tax levied upon the property sold. The fact
that there were lands sold in other parishes than those named,
in the State of South Carolina, and also lands lying in other
States, furnishes a rational and proper foundation for the last
proviso in section 4 of the act of 1891, without construing it to
involve these owners who had already been specialty provided
for. There is full opportunity thus given for the application
of the clause in question to other landowners without including
within its benefits the owners of those lands who had already
been particularly mentioned and provided for by other clauses
in the same section. It is true that if the language used in
that last clause be given its widest and broadest application it
would include all owners of real estate which had been sold in
any portion of the country under the provisions of the direct
tax act. But we think a perusal of the whole act prevents
our giving this unlimited construction, because to do so would
conflict with what we think was the intention of Congress,
gathered from the provisions of the whole act. Under such
circumstances it is not only the right but it is the plain duty
of the court to limit by a proper construction the otherwise
boundless application of the general language used in the
statute. As was said by Mr. Chief Justice Taney: "It is undoubtedly the duty of the court to ascertain the meaning of
the legislature from the words used in the statute, and the
subject-matter to which it relates; and to restrain its operation within narrower limits than its words import if the court
are satisfied that the literal meaning of its language would extend to cases which the legislature never designed to embrace
in it." Brewer v. Blouglher, 14 Pet. 178, at 198; Petri v. Commercial National Bank of Chicago, 142 U. S.644, 650.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for Parties.

It is true that, in the first case cited, the court refused to
limit the application of the statute as contended for by one
of the parties to the controversy, but such refusal was based
on the view of the statute taken by the court, which was that
the intention of the legislature was not so plainly within the
.contention of counsel as to permit of the limitation in that
case. The rule for the construction of a statute and of the
duty of the court was given as above stated.
In this case we think the intention of Congress was plain,
and that the general language of the last clause-of section 4
should not be held to include the class of owners of lands
mentioned in the first clause of the same sedtion, for whose
case special. provision was therein made. We think that the
constructioh given by the Court of Claims to the statute of
189, as set forth in its opinion in Sams v. United States, 27
C. Cl., supra, was correct, and its judgment in this case should,
therefore, be
________Affrmed.

GLOVER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 140. Argued November 5, 1S96. - Decided November 80, 1896.

A mortgage creditor, who was such at the time of the sale of real estate In
South Carolina for non-payment of taxes to the United States under tho
tax acts of 1861, is not the legal owner contemplated by Congress in the
act of March 3, 1891, c. 496, as entitled to receive the amount appropriated by that act in reimbursement of a part of the taxes collected; but
the court, by this decision, must not be understood as expressing an
opinion upon what construction might be justified under other facts and
circumstances, and for other purposes.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. James Lowndes for appellants.
MAir. W. S. .onteith for interested parties.
Hr. Assistant Attorney Gorman and .Mr. Assistant Attorney
GeneralDodge for appellees submitted on their brief.

