OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for Parties.

It is true that, in the first case cited, the court refused to
limit the application of the statute as contended for by one
of the parties to the controversy, but such refusal was based
on the view of the statute taken by the court, which was that
the intention of the legislature was not so plainly within the
.contention of counsel as to permit of the limitation in that
case. The rule for the construction of a statute and of the
duty of the court was given as above stated.
In this case we think the intention of Congress was plain,
and that the general language of the last clause-of section 4
should not be held to include the class of owners of lands
mentioned in the first clause of the same sedtion, for whose
case special. provision was therein made. We think that the
constructioh given by the Court of Claims to the statute of
189, as set forth in its opinion in Sams v. United States, 27
C. Cl., supra, was correct, and its judgment in this case should,
therefore, be
________Affrmed.

GLOVER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 140. Argued November 5, 1S96. - Decided November 80, 1896.

A mortgage creditor, who was such at the time of the sale of real estate In
South Carolina for non-payment of taxes to the United States under tho
tax acts of 1861, is not the legal owner contemplated by Congress in the
act of March 3, 1891, c. 496, as entitled to receive the amount appropriated by that act in reimbursement of a part of the taxes collected; but
the court, by this decision, must not be understood as expressing an
opinion upon what construction might be justified under other facts and
circumstances, and for other purposes.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. James Lowndes for appellants.
MAir. W. S. .onteith for interested parties.
Hr. Assistant Attorney Gorman and .Mr. Assistant Attorney
GeneralDodge for appellees submitted on their brief.

GLOVER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Mi'. JusTIcE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

In 1861 Benjamin R. Bythewood was the owner of a lot in
the town of Beaufort and a plantation in the county of the
same name, both situated in Saint Helena Parish, State of
South Carolina. On the occupation of Port loyal by the
national troops in November, 1861, Bythewood left Saint
Ifelena Island, as did all the white population of that island.
Thereafter the property of Bythewood was assessed for taxes
by the United States under the direct tax actof 1861, (12 Stat.
294,) and was sold in enforcement thereof. A portion of the
plantation was subsequently redeemed.
Congress provided, by the act of March 2, 1891, c. 496, 26
Stat. 822, for refunding the direct tax collected under the
act of 1861, and also for payment, under certain conditions, of
a stipulated amount to the owners of property in Saint Helena
Parish, which had been sold to collect such direct tax. This
controversy arises from a claim made, under said act, by the
representatives of Mrs. Verdier, that as their ancestor was a
creditor secured by mortgage on the Property of Bythewood at
the date when it was sold under the act of 1861, they are therefore entitled to be paid the sum stipulated in the act of Congress, because as the representatives of such mortgage creditor
they were the legal owners of the property within the meaning
of the refunding law of 1891. The full text of the act of 1891,
upon which the issue depends, is set out in the margin of the
opinion in .Mc.ee v. United States, ante, 287.
By the fourth section of the act it is made "the duty of the
Secretary of the Treasury to pay to such persons as shall in
each case apply therefor and furnish evidence that such applicant was at the time of the sales hereinafter mentioned the
legal owner or the heirs at law or devisee of the legal owner
of such lands as were sold in the parish of Saint Helena and
8aint Luke's in the State of South Carolina under the said
acts of Congress, the value of said land in the manner followino, to wit. " .
"
The question which therefore arises is this: is one who was
a mortgage creditor at the time of the sale of the propertyy to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

enforce the direct tax, the legal owner contemplated by Congress when it enacted the law of 1891 ?
Construing the words "legal owner" in a strictly literal and
purely technical sense, it is 'clear that under the law of South
Carolina a mortgage creditor was not such legal owner.
Without considering whether a mortgage creditor under the
common law might be technically held to be the legal owner
within the meaning of the act of 1891, it is plain that the
statute law of South Carolina made the position of a mortgagee merely that of a creditor with security. The law from
which this resulted was passed in 1791, 5 Stat. S. C. 169, and
therein it was provided:
"No mortgagee shall be entitled to maintain any possessory
action for the real estate mortgaged, even after the time
alloted for the payment of the money secured by the mortgage is elapsed; but the mortgagor shall be still. deemed the
owner of the land and the mortgagee as owner of the money
lent, or due, and shall be entitled to recover satisfaction for
the same out of the land

.

.

.

Provided always, that

nothing herein contained shall extend to any suit or action
now pending, or when the mortgagor shall be out of possession,

.

.

As late as 1890 the Supreme Court of South Carolina construed this statute in Hardinv. Hardin, 34 S. C. 77, 80, and
it was there held that it was well settled, by many decisions,
that in South Carolina a mortgage of real estate is not a conveyance of any estate whatever, but is simply a colitract
whereby the mortgagee obtains a lien on the property mortgaged as a security for the payment of the debt, and that the
mortgagor still remains, even after the condition is broken,
the owner of the land.
Nor did the mere fact that Bythewood left Saint Helena
Island, on the arrival of the Federal forces, convert Mrs.
Verdier's title, which was one of mere security, into that of a
legal owner. It is not found that she herself in fact took any
possession of the property mortgaged to secure her debt.
As said in Norwich v. Hubbard,22 Connecticut, 587, 594:
"A mortgagee, out of possession, is not the proprietor of

GLOVER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the mortgaged premises, and, in common parlance, is never
spoken of as such, nor is he so recognized in a legal sense. To
be sure, he is said to have the legal title, and as against the
mortgagor, and for the purpose of enforcing his rights, as
mortgagee, he has such title. He can convey no beneficial
interest in the land mortgaged, as separate and distinct from
the debt; and he has no such interest in it as can be levied
upon, and taken in execution, by his creditors."
Even the common law right of a mortgagee not in possession to be considered the legal owner is so in a restricted
sense, as is shown by Great Falls Co. v. Worster, 15 N. H.
412, 434, where the court said:
"A mortgagee not in possession is not entitled to be treated
as owner, except in a suit, or some other proceeding, to enforce his rights as mortgagee. Until entry, he has no right
to exercise any acts as owner. He cannot claim the rents and
profits. He cannot convey the land by deed, without transferring tle debt. But he may assign the -debt, and thereby
assign and transfer the charge upon the land. He has no
right to commit waste or destroy the property when in possession, until he has foreclosed."
Whilst it is hence clear that a strict and technical construction
of the words "legal owner" would be conclusive against the
claim which the mortgage creditors here assert, the language of
the act of 1891 should not be measured and interpreted by this
narrow rule. The context of that act makes it manifest that the
word "legal," prefixed to the word "owner," was not intended
to give it a purely artificial meaning'. This is shown by the fact
that in other places in the section where the word "owner" is
found the same idea is conveyed by the use of that word without
the prefix "legal." In interpreting the act, therefore, we must
be guided not by any mere technicality, but must read its provisions by the light of the cardinal rule, commanding that the
words must be apprehended, not in a forced and purely technical way, but in their general acceptation, and that the law must
be interpreted in accordance with its spirit so as to effectuate
the purpose intended to be accomplished thereby. Alaillard
v. Lawrence, 16 How. 251 ; Smythe v. Fiske, 23 Wall. 374.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Following these canons of construction, it cannot be denied
that the general acceptation of the word "owner" is distinct
and different- indeed, is the very opposite of the word" creditor," whether secured by mortgage or not. And that this
meaning is the sense in which it was used in the law in question
is demonstrated by the fact that nowhere therein is provision
made for the classification and ascertainment of the rights of
creditors for determining whether such rights had been duly
preserved by proper registry or had been discharged by payment or barred by the statute of limitations. Indeed, there is
one requirement of the act which excludes the implication that
the word "owner" was intended to refer to a creditor. The
payment to the owner, the fourth section commands, "shall
be made by the Secretary of the Treasury to such persons as
shall

.

.

.

furnish satisfactory evidence that such appli-

cant was at the time of the sales, hereinafter mentioned, the
legal owner." Now, whilst the time of the sale was an absolut.ely certain criterion by which to determine ownership vel
non, it is an impossible test by which to ascertain the existence
or non-existence of a creditor at the time the law was enacted.
The mere .fact that a creditor held security at a given time
does not exclude the possibility of the debt having been paid
subsequent to .the sale, or of its having perished by limitation,
or having been extinguished in some other lawful way. To
hold that the payment must be made, therefore, to one who
was a creditor at the time of the sale would imply that Congress intended to make a payment to one who might not be a
creditor at the time of the payment, although he may have
been such creditor when the sale was made.
A consideration of the purpose meant to be accomplished
by the act of 1891 fortifies the foregoing conclusions. That
it was avowedly intended to repay the tax which had been
levied under the act of 1861 is beyond question. The provision as to payment to the owners of a certain sum for land
sold under that act was clearly a result and consequence of
the general purpose contemplated by Congress in passing the
refunding law. It follows that the aim proposed by the act
of 1891 was the return of the tax assessed under the act of

GLOVER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

1861 and the repayment, in certain cases, to the owners of a
named sum for lands which were assessed and sold under that
act. Now, if it be clear that under the act of 1861 the owner
and not the mortgage creditor out of possession was liable
for assessment, it becomes equally clear that a mortgage
creditor who was nfot assessable under the act of 1861 was
not within the scope of the relief intended to be accomplished by the act of. 1891. The act of 1861, in section 8 and
subsequent sections, provided for a tax which was to be
assessed and laid within the United States "on the value of
lands and lots of ground, their improvement and dwelling
houses." It contemplated an assessment against the owner
of the property and not the creditor, since there was a personal liability entailed on the owner for the tax. Thus, by
section 35, the collector was authorized upon default in the
payment of the tax to distrain upon goods and chattels.
Can it be contended that one who was a creditor with a
mortgage security on the property of his debtor was liable
to assessment for this tax, and hence to have his goods and
chattels distrained for its payment? If it cannot be, then it
follows that the mortgage creditor could not be assessed
under the act of 1861. But if he was not assessable under
that law, and the act of 1891 contemplates only the owners
who could be so assessed, the deduction is irresistible that
the mortgage creditor was not embraced in the word "owner"
as used in the act of 1891. Nor is the claim here asserted
by the mortgage creditor that he is within the term "owner,"
as used in the act of 1891, fortified by a reference to decisions
.construing that word in statutes regulating the enforcement
of the right of eminent domain. Some courts, considering
that word strictly in such statutes, have held it not to embrace a mortgagee. Farnsworth v. Boston, 126 Mass. 1;
NWorwich v. Hulbard, supra. Other courts, however, have
held from a consideration of the context of the statutes which
they were interpreting, and the evident purpose intended
thereby to be subserved, that mortgagees were embraced.
Even if arguendo it be conceded that the latter construction
is a correct one, and that where the law seeks to divest a11

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

and every title to land or estate and substitute the price
therefor, that the word "owner ' should receive a broad and
liberal construction so as to embrace every right in and to
the land,"such concession would not affect or control the
proper interpretation to be given to the word "owner" in the
act under consideration. In conferring the gratuity provided
by the act of 1891, Congress in no way manifested its purpose to make a restitutio in integrum, to create a fund which

would take the place of the property and be the representative of its entire value, at the date of the sale, or of all the
interests then resting upon or entering into the land. The
act does not provide for ascertaining the value of the land
at the time of the sale and for a return of the amount
thereof, but simply fixes an .arbitrary sum to be paid to the
one who was the owner at the time of the sale. And that
this sum was not considered by Congress as the whole value.
of the property, at the .date of the sale, is demonstrated by
the fact that, as to the lots in Beaufort, the amount to be
paid was fixed at one half the valuation placed on them,
by the United States, when they were assessed under the
direct tax law. We cannot adopt a theory of construction
which substantially asserts that the half is equal to the
whole. To enforce, then, against the money given by Congress to the owner, the rights of the mortgage creditor on
the theory that it represents the entire value of the property
would be indulging in an untrue hypothesis to justify not
only a repudiation of the express words of the law, but also
a refusal to execute its manifest intent. Doubtless both the
rights of the owner-and those of the mortgage creditor were
operated on by the tax sale. But the taxing law gave to
either a right of redemption. If years after the sale and
when the right to redeem had lapsed, Congress chose to give
to the owner a proportion of the value of the property to
compensate for his loss, we can see no equitable consideration
supporting the claim that the money should be, by judicial
construction, taken from the owner, in order to bestow it on
the mortgage creditor. To so construe would substitute the
judicial for the legislative mind.

COUGIHRAN v. BIGELOW.
Statement of the Case.

This case is also unlike that of a factor who, by reason of
advances upon goods in his physical possession, has acquired
a quasi ownership in such goods, and who,'to the extent of
such advances, is entitled as special owner to sell the goods
in his possession. United States v. Tillalonga, 23 Wall. 35.
Of course the construction which we give to the term "legal
owner" or "owners " in the act of 1891, is limited to the precise
question arising on this record, which is simply whether a
mortgagee can properly be said to be embraced within the
terms of the act of 1891 giving a particular sum to the legal
owner or owners for lands sold by the government under the direct tax act of 1861. In determining, therefore, as we do, that
the mortgage creditor is not embraced in the provisions of
the act, we are not to be understood as expressing an opinion
upon what construction might be justified under other facts
and circumstances and for other purposes.
The judgment of the Court of Claims, disallowing the claim
of the plaintiffs, having construed the act of 1891 in accordance with the foregoing views, was right, and is therefore
Affirmed.

COUGIHRAN v. BIGELOW
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TUE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 53. Argued and gubmitted May 7, 18)6. -Decided

November 30, 1896.

The granting, by a trial court, of a nonsuit for want of sufficient evidei e
to warrant a verdict for the plaintiff is no infringement of the cbnstitutional right of trial by jury.
A surety on a bond, conditioned f6r the faithful performance by the principal obligor of his agreement to convey land to -the obligee on a day
named on receiving the agreed price, is released from his liability if the
vendee fails to perform the precedent act of payment at the time provided In the contract, and if the vendor, having then a right to rescind
and declare a forfeiture in consequence, waives that right.

EUGENE W. Coughran and Nathan H. Cottrell filed their
amended complaint in the district court of the first judicial
district of the Territory of Utah on December 15, 1891,

