OCTOBER TERI,

1896.

Statement of the Case.

WISCONSIN CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 21.

Argued October 15, 16, 1896. -Decided

No ember 16, 1896.

The changes made in the grants to Wisconsin in the act of May 5, 1864, to
aid in the construction of railroads from those made to that State by
the act of June 3, 1856, rendered necessary some modifications of provisos 1 and 3 of § 1, and of §§ 2, 3 and 4 of the latter act, and they were
accordingly reiinacted in homologous provisos and sections of the act
of 1864; but as the 2d proviso of § 1 and § 5 of the act of 1856 required
no modification, they were not rednacted, but the terms and conditions
contained -therein were carried forward by reference, as explained in
detail in the opinion of the court.
Statutes granting privileges or relinquishing rights of the public are to be
strictly construed against the grantee.
An intention to surrender the rigit to demand the carriage of mails over
subsidized railroads at reasonable rates, assumed in construing a statute
of the United States, is opposed to the established policy of Congress.
The terms and conditionls imposed on the grant under which the plaintlif
in error holds embraced the condition that the mail should be carried at
such rates as Congress might fix; and § 13 of the act of July 12, 1876,
was applicable.
The Postmaster General, in directing payment of compensation for mail
transportation, does not act judicially.
The action of executive officers in matters of account and payment cannot
be regarded as a conclusive determination, when brought in question in
a court of justice.
The government is not bound by the act of its officers, making an unauthorized payment, under misconstruction of the law.
Parties receiving moneys, illegally paid by a public officer, are liable ex awquo
et bono to refund them; and there is nothing In this record to take the
case out of the scope of that principle.
The forms of pleading in the Court of Claims do not require the right to
recover back moneys so illegally paid to be set up as a counterclaim in
an action brought by the party receiving them to recover further sums
from the government.

AN act of Congress of March 3, 1873, c. 231, 17 Stat. 556.
prescribed the rates of compensation for the transportation of
the mails on the basis of the average weight, and by an act

WISCONSIN CENTRAL RD v. UNITED STATES.

191

Statement of the Case.

of July 12, 1876, c. 179, 19 Stat. 78, the compensation was directed to be readjusted by the Postmaster General as specified
on and after July 1, 1876. Section 13 of this act provided
"that railroad companies whose railroad was constructed in
whole or in part by a land grant made by Congress on the condition that the mails should be transported over their road at
such price as Congress should by law direct shall receive only
eighty per centum of the compensation authorized by this act."
By an act approved June 3, 1856, c. 43, 11 Stat. 20, Congress granted to the State of Wisconsin lands to aid in the
construction of certain railroads northward and northwestward in said State, ultimately reaching the west end of Lake
Superior, the land granted being every alternate odd-numbered section for six sections in width on each side of the
roads respectively. Section 5 of this act provided: "That
the United States mail shall be transported over said roads,
under the direction of the Post Office Department, at such
price as Congress may, by law, direct: Provided, That until
such price is fixed by law, the Postmaster General shall have
the power to determine the same." Some or all of the roads
contemplated in this act not having been constructed, Congress, by act of May 5, 186-1, c. 80, 13 Stat. 66, again granted
lands to the State of Wisconsin for three different general
lines of railroads, the line covered by section 3 of the act,
being the one in controversy. By this act alternate odd-numbered sections for ten sections in width, instead of six, were
granted "upon the same terms and conditions as are contained
in the act granting lands to said State to aid in the construction of railroads in said State, approved June 3, 1856."
The two acts in parallel columns, the words in each and
not in the other being printed in italics, are as follows:
Adt of June 3, 1856.

Act of .may 5, 1864.
SEc. 1. [This section grants
land to aid in the construction
of a railroad from Saint Croix
River or Lake to Lake Superior.]

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of 'the Case.

SEOTION 1. That there be,
and is hereby, granted to the
State of Wisconsin for the
purpose of aiding in the construction of a railroad from
.Madison, or Columbus, by the
way of Portage City to the
Saint Croix -iver or Lake
between townships twenty-five
and thirty-one, and ,from
thence to the west end of Lake
Superior; and to Bayfield;
and also from Fond du Lac
on. Lake Winnebago, northerly
to the state line, every alternate section of land designated
by odd numbers for six sections in width on each side of
said roads, respectively.

SEc. 2. [This section grants
land to aid in the construction
of a railroad from Tomah to
Saint Croix River or Lake.]
SEc. 3. And be it further
enacted, That there be, and is
hereby, granted to the State
of Wisconsin, for the purpose
of aiding in the construction of a railroad from

Portage
City, Berlin, Doty's Island,
or Fond du Lac, as said State
may determine, in a northwestern direction .to Bayfield,

and thence to Suyoerior, on
Lake Superior, every alternate
section of public land, designated by odd numbers, for ten
sections in width on each side
of said road, upon the same
&erms and conditions as are
contained n the act granting
lands to said State to aid in
the covstruction of rdilroads
in said State, approved June
three, eighteen hundred and
But in case it shall appear fifty-six. But in case it shall
that the United States have, appear that the United States
when the lines or routes of have, when the line or route
said roads are definiitely fixed, of said road.is definitely fixed,
sold any sections or parts sold, reserved, or otherwise
thereof granted as aforesaid, disposed of any sections or
or that the right'of preemp- parts thereof, granted as
tion has attached to the same, aforesaid, or that the right

WISCONSIN CENTRAL R'D v. UNITED STATES.

193

Statement of the Case.

theti it shall be lawful for
any agent or agents, to be appointed by the governor of
said State, to select, subject
to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, from the
lands of the United States
nearest to the tier of sections
above specified, so much land
in alternate sections, or parts
of sections, as shall be equal
to such lands as the United
States have sold or otherwise
appropriated, or to which the
right of pregmption has attached, as aforesaid, which
lands (thus selected in lieu of
those sold and to which preemption has attached as aforesaid, together with the sections and parts of sections
designated by odd numbers
as aforesaid, and appropriated
as aforesaid,) shall be held by
the State of Wisconsin for the
use and purpose aforesaid:

Provided,That the lands to
be so located shall in no case
be further than ffteem miles
from the line of the roads in
each case, and 8electedfor and
on account of said roads:
Providedfurther, That the
VOL. CLXIV-13

of preemption or homestead
has attached to the same, that
it shall be lawful for any
agent or agents of said State,
appointed by the governor
thereof, to select, subject to
the approval of the Secretary
of the Interior, from the lands
of the United States nearest
to the tier of sections above
specified, as much public land
in alternate sections, or parts
of sections, as shall be equal
to such lands as the United.
States have sold or otherwise
appropriated, or to which the
right of preemption or homestead has attached as aforesaid, which lands (thus seleoted in lieu of those sold
and to which tlle right of
or homestead
prefmption
has attached as aforesaid,
together with sections and
parts of sections designated
by odd numbers as aforesaid,
and appropriated as aforesaid)
shall be held by said State, or
by the company to which she
may transfer the same, for the
use and purpose aforesaid:
Provided, That the lands to
be so located shall in no case
be further than twenty miles
from the line of said road.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

lands hereby granted shall be
exclusively applied in the construction of that road for
which'it was granted and selected, and shall be disposed
of only as the work-progresses,
and the same shall be applied
to no other puipose whatsoever :
And providedfurther,That
any and all lands reserved to
the United States by any act
of Congress for the purpose
of aiding in any object of internal improvement, or in any
manner for any purpose whatsoever, be, and the same are
hereby, reserved to the United
States from the operation of
this act, except so far as it
may be found necessary to
locate the route of said railroads through such reserved
lands, in which case the right
of way only shall be granted,
subject to the approval of
the President of the United
States.
SEC. 2. And be it further
enacted, That the sections and
parts of sections of land which,
by such grant,shall remain to
the United States, within six

SEC. 6. And be it further
enacted,That any and all lands
reserved to the United States
by any act of Congress for the
purpose of aiding in any object of internal improvement,
or in any manner for any purpose whatsoever, and all mirneral lands be and the same are
hereby reserved and excluded
from the operation of this act,
except so far as it may be
found necessary to locate the
route of such railroads through
such reserved lands, in which
case the right of way only
shall be granted, subject to
the approval of the President
-of the United States.
SEC. 4. And be it further
enacted, Thaf the sections and
parts of sections of lands
Which shall remain to the
United States within ten miles
miles on each side of said on each side of said roads
roads, shall: not be sold for shall not be sold for less than
less than double the mini- -double the minimum price of
mum price of the public lands the public lands when sold;
when sold; nor shall any of nor shall any of the said re-

WISCONSLN CENTRAL I)

v. UNITED STATES.

195

Statement of the Case.

said lands become subject to
private entry until the same
have been first offered at public sale at the increased price.
SEC. 3. And be it further
enacted, That the said lands
hereby granted to said State
shall be subject to the disposal of the legislature thereof, for the purposes aforesaid,
and no other;
and the said railroads shall be
and remain public highways
for the use of the Government
of the United States free from
toll or other charge upon the
transportation of property or
troops of the United States.
SEc. 4. And be it further

enacted, That the lands hereby
granted to said State shall be
disposed of by said State only
in manner following, that is
to say: that a quantity of
land not exceeding one hundred and twenty sections, and
included within a continuous
length of twenty milks of roads,
respectively, may be sold; and
when the governor of said State
shall certify to the Secretary
qf the Interiorthat any twenty
continuous miles of either of
said roads are completd, .then,

served lands become subject
to private entry until the
same have been first offered
at public sale at the increased
price.
Snc. 8. And be it further
enacted, That the said lands
hereby granted shall, when
patented as provided in section seven of this act, be subject to the disposal of the
companies respectively entitled
thereto, for the purposes aforesaid, and no other, and the
said railroads be, and shall remain public highways for the
use of the Government of the
United States, free from all
toll or other charge, for the
transportation of any property or troops" of the United
States.
SEc. 7. And be it further
enacted, That whenever tMe
companies to which this grant
is made, or to which the same
may be transferred,shall have
completed twenty consecutive
miles of any portion of said
railroads, supplied with all
necessary drains, culverts,
viaducts, crossings, sidings,
bridges, turnouts, watering
places, depots, equipments,
furniture, and all other appurtenances of a first-class
railroad,patents shall issue
conveying the right and title

OCTOBEI

Z,
TER

1896.

Statement of the Case.

another like quantity of land to'saidlands to the said comhereby granted may be sold; pany entitled thereto, on each
and sofrom time to time until side of the road, 80 far as the
said roads are completed;
same is completed, and coterminou8 with said completed
section, 9 ot exceeding the
amount aforesaid,andpatents
shall in like manner issue as
each twenty miles of said road
is completed: Provided,however, That no patents shall
issue for any of said lands
unless there shall be presented
to the Secretary of the Interior
a statement, verified on oath
.or afirmation by the president
of said company, and certijfed
'by the governor of the State of
Wisconsin, that such twenty
miles have been completed in
the manner required by this

act, and settingforth with certainty the points where such
twenty miles begin and where
the same end; which oath
shall be taken before a judge

of a court of record of the
and if said roads are not completed within ten years,

no

further sales shall

be

United States.
Sxc. 9. And be it further
enacted, That if said road
mentioned in the third section
aforesaid is not completed
within ten yearsfrom the time
of the passage of this act, as
provided herein, no further
patents shall be issued to said
company for said lands, and
no further sale shall be made,

WISCONSIN CENTRAL R'D v. UNITED STATES.

197

Statement of the Case.

made, and the land unsold
shall revert to the United
States.

and the lands unsold shall revert to the United States.
SEC. 5. And be it further
enacted, That the time fied
and limitedfor the completionr
of said roads in the act aforesaid of June three, eighteen
hundred and fifty-six be, and
the same is hereby extended to
a perod of five years from,
and after the passage of this
act.

SEo. 5. And be it ftrther
enacted, That the United States
mail shall be transported over

said roads, under the direction
of the Post Offlee Department,
at 8uCh price as Congress may,
by law, direct: Provided,
That until sueh price is fixed
by law, the Postmaster General shall have the power to
determine the same.
The road constructed upon the line indicated in section 3
of the act of 1864: was originally that of two companies, which
were afterwards consolidated and became the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company. These roads were constructed by the
'Phillips and Colby Construction Company, who apparently
were'to have control and operation of the road until fully
equipped and delivered to the railroad company. The time
for completion having been extended, portions of said roads
were completed, equipped and operated in 1875 and carried
mails under the management of the construction company up
to some time prior to December 27, 1877, when notice was
given of the turning over of the roads to the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, and from that time the mails have
been carried by that company. Commencing in 1875 and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

continuing until July, 1879, the Postmaster General allowed
and paid for the carriage of the mails the customary rates
paid to non-land-grant companies. Upon the informal opinion of the Assistant Attorney General for the Post Office
Department, the Postmaster General issued an order, June 2,
1880, directing that from July 1, 1879, the pay should only
be at the rate provided by Congress for land-grant roads,
namely, eighty per cent of the full amount. January 26,
1881, upon a reconsideration, orders were issued recalling the
order of June 2, 1880, whereupon the department returned
to the earlier practice and paid full rates for the carriage of
the mails until January 8, 1884, when Postmaster General
Gresham again adopted the construction of June 2, 1880, and
applied the same to the compensation of these roads from
and after July 1, 1883, and that construction has been applied
from thence hitherto, and payment made at the rate of eighty
per cent of the amount paid non-land-grant roads.
In addition to reducing the pay for carrying the mails for
the current and subsequent years, namely, from July 1, 1883,
the Postmaster General restated the account for the carriage
of the mails prior to July 1, 1883, both during the period
when they were carried by the construction company and
during the period from about December, 1877, to July 1, 1883,
in which they were carried by the Wisconsin Central Railroad
Company and deducted out of moneys which had been earned
since July 1, 1883, the excess over the eighty per cent rate
which had been paid during the previous years.
Suit was brought in the Court of Claims May 26, 1887, by
the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company against the United
States to recover an alleged balance due as compensation for
carrying the mails. The Court of Claims allowed the railroad company $6448.80 as being the amount deducted from
the claimant's earnings in 1886 and 1887 for payments in
excess of the eighty per cent rate made to the construction
company while that company was operating the roads, but
the Court of Claims held that Postmaster General Gresham's
construction was correct, and that the claimant was restricted
to the eighty per cent rate, and, therefore, disallowed the

WISCONSIN CENTRAL R'D v. UNITED STATES.

199

Argument for Appellant.

claim for the money withheld against the excess and also the
amount of the claim for the period subsequent to July 1, 1883.
The sums which had been paid to claimant in excess of the
eighty per cent rate and which were deducted ,from subse(luently earned pay, amounted to $12,532.43. The twenty per
cent subsequent to July 1, 1883, was $16,343.58.
The Court of Claims gave judgment in favor of the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company for $6448.80, and the railroad company appealed. The United States did not appeal.
The opinion of the court, by Nott, J., is reported 27 C. C1.
440.
Mr. Louis D. Brandeis for appellant. Mr. Edwin. I1.
Abbot, .Jr'. HJoward -Morris,and -Mr. William 1. Dunbar
were on his brief.
I. The grant made by the act of 1864 was not upon condition that the mails should be carried at such rates as Congress
might fix.
That act contains no express condition for the transpbrtation of the mail, and the circumstances leading to its passage
show that Congress did not intend to impose such a condition.
The intention of Congress is to be ascertained from the facts
attending the passage of the act, as well as from its language.
Wminona & St. Peter Railroad v. Barney, 113 U. S. 618;
Wisconsia Central Railroad v. Forsythe, 159 U. S. 46 ; Caledon an Railway v. North Bristol Railway, 6 L. R. App.
Cas. 114.
The facts show that Congress did not intend to impose this
condition. Such an intention is not inconsistent. with the
policy of Congress. Union Pacific Railroadv. United States,
104 U. S. 662. This condition was not incorporated by reference in the act of 1864; and an analysis of that act shows
that no such incorporation was intended. See XAteRoberts v.
1lrashburne, 10 Minnesota, 23. The structure of the act indicates that the words "terms and conditions ' did not refer to
the provision in the act of June 3, 1856. Atkins v. Disintegrating Co., 18 Wall, 272; In re Cambrian Railways Corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellant.

pany's Scheme, L. R. 3 Ch. App. 278; Thompson v. Farrer,
L. R., 9 Q. B. D. 372; People v. Davenport, 91 N. Y.'574.
The language used does not require a construction imposing
such a condition. If it does, the words in question should be
disregarded as inconsistent with the general scope of the act.
Ebbs v. Boulnois, 10 Oh. App. 479; People v. Davenport, 91
N. Y. 574; Ross v. Barland,1 Pet. 655.
The construction contended for by the claimant was adopted
by the Post Office Department contemporaneously with the
passage of the act of July 12, 1876, c. 179, and should be followed. United States v. Alabama Great Southern Railroad,
142 U. S. 615.
II. Even if § 13 of the act of July 12, 1876 be held applicable to the Wisconsin Central Railroad, payments made under
a different construction of the act of May 5, 1864, cannot now
be used to defeat the claim for money confessedly earned.
(a) The order of the Postmaster General to withhold this
money on account of alleged past overpayments .involved a
reversal of the decisions of his predecessors. Such reversal
was in defiance of the well established rule that the decisions
of executive officers involving the construction of a law are
final upon the same executive department, not as to the rule
of law decided, but as to the decision of the particular case,
and hence was illegal. United States v. Bank of the Metropolis, 15 ]Pet. 377; Kendall v. Stokes, 3 How. 87; Ex parte
Randolph, 2 Brock. 447; Stotesbury v. United States, 146
U. S. 196; United States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525; Shepley v.
Cowan, 91 U. S. 330 ; .Moorev. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; Noble
v. Union River Logging Railroad,147 U. S. 165; WF'addell v.
United States, 25 0. 01. 323; Armstrong v. United States, 29
0. Cl. 148; Cotton v. United States, 29 0. O. 207.
(b) Such alleged overpayments would not even have entitled
the government to recover by suit the money paid, because the
money was paid, in the main, after a deliberate consideration
of the question involved by the Postmaster General, to whom
the duty of deciding it was committed, and the accounts with
the claimant covering the period in which such overpayments
are alleged to have been made had been settled. Elliott v.

WISCONSIN CENTRAL R'D v. UNITED STATES.

201

Opinion of the Court.

Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137; Lambo-n v. County Commissioners,
97 U. S. 181; Brisbane v. Dacres, 5 Taunt. 143; .Midland
Great Western Railway v. Johnson, 6 H. L. Cas. 798; .Marshall
v. Collett, 1 Younge & Col. (Excb.) 232; Trigge v. -Laval~e,
15 Moore P. C. 270; Clarke v. Dutcher, 9 Cowen, 674;
United States Bank v. .Daniel,12 Pet. 32; Rogers v. Ingham,
3 Qh. D. 351; Queen v. Lord Commissioners of Treasury, 16
Q. 1B. 357; Wayne County v. Randall, 43 Michigan, 137;
ilearnev. Maribie Ins. Co., 20 Wall. 488; Griswold v. iazard,
141 U. S. 260; Hunt v. Rousmanier, 8 Wheat, 174; 1 Pet. 1;
.3rcArthur v. Luce, 43 Michigan, 435; OnandagaSupervisors
v. Briggs, 2 Denio, 26; Hillborn v. United States, 27 C. 01.
547; 163 U. S. 342; Pattersonv. United States, 28 0. C1. 321;
United States v. Barker, 12 Wheat. 559; Brent v. Bank of
W1a8hington, 10 Pet. 596; United States Bank v. United States,
2 How. 711; The Siren, 7 Wall. 152; Snmoot's case, 15 Wall.
36; Cooke v. United States, 91 U. S. 389; United States v.
Bo~twick, 94 U. S. 53; United States v. State Bank, 96 U. S.
30; MfcKnight v. United States, 98 U. S. 179; Badeau v.
United States, 130 U. S. 439. In the last case the court say:
"but inasmuch as the claimant, if not an officer de jure, acted
as an officer de facto, we are not inclined to hold that he has
received money which, ex cequo et bono, he ought to return."
(c) Even if the government had the right to recover by suit
the money so paid, such right could not be availed of in this
proceeding, as the government entered a general traverse, and
did not file any counter claim. United States v. Burns, 12
Wall. 246; Clark v. United States, 95 U. S. 539; United
States v. Behan, 110 U. S. 338; United States v. Carr, 132
U. S. 644; United States v. Stahl, 151 U. S. 366.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTI E FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Appellant contends that it was not subject to the eighty
per cent rate, and hence that it is entitled to recover both the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

items disallowed by the Court of Claims; and also that, even
if this position be untenable, it should not have been charged
with amounts which had already been settled and paid under
the view that the company was not so restricted, and should
have been awarded the-sum of $12,532.43 withheld.
The act of 1864 expressly provided that the grant "vas made
upon "the same terms and conditions as are contained in the
act granting lands to said State to aid in the construction of
railroads in said State, approved June three, eighteen hundred and fifty-six," and that act contained in its fifth section
the following: "That the United States mail shall be transported over said roads under the direction of the Post Office
Department at such price as Congress may by law direct, provided that until such price is fixed by law, the Postmaster
General shall have the power to determine the same."
But it is argued that the "terms and conditions" referred
to do not embrace the terms and conditions prescribed by
section 5, because the general subject-matter of every other
section of the act of 1856 was expressly reenacted, and therefore it must be inferred that Congress intended to express in
the act of 1864 all the terms and conditions which were imposed upon the grant thereby made; or that, in any event,
the words should be limited to the terms and conditions of
section 1 of the act of 1856.
The difficulty is that to hold that all the terms and conditions
imposed upon the grant were specifically expressed in the act
of 1864 itself would be to render the reference to the act of
1856 meaningless and to eliminate, by interpretation, the
words "upon the same'terms and conditions as are contained
in" that act; and we are of opinion that the explicit language
of the statute cannot thus be done away with.
The existence of terms and conditions in the act of 1856
left wholly unmodified by the reenactments of the act of 1864:
preclude the argument that the words so used are without
meaning; and, moreover, the settled rule is that statutes
granting privileges or relinquishing rights of the public are
to be strictly construed against the grantee..
Reference to the two acts will show that the changes in the

WISCONSIN CENTRAL R'D v. UNITED STATES.

203

Opinion of the Court.

new grant rendered necessary some modification of the first
and third provisos of the first section and of sections 2, 3 and
4 of the act of 1856 (which embody some, but not all, of the
terms and conditions), and they were accordingly regnacted in
homologous provisos and sections of the act of 1864, but as
the second proviso of section 1 and section 5 required no
modification they were not reenacted, and the terms and conditions contained therein were carried forward by reference.
Thus for the first proviso of section 1 of the act .of 1856,
the first proviso of the third section of the act of 1864: was
substituted in order to enlarge the fifteen-mile limit to twenty,
and section 6 of the act of 1864: was substituted for the third
proviso in order to provide for the exclusion of mineral lands
from the grant. So the second section of the act of 1856 was
rdnacted in the fourth sectioii of the act of 1864: to change
the six miles on each side of the road to ten; and section
3 of the act of 1856 was refnacted in section 8 of the act
of 1864: to provide for the difference between the patenting
to the State under the earlier act and the patenting direct
to the companies under the last act, while section 4 of the
act of 1856 was reproduced in section I of the act of 1864
with the alterations rendered necessary, not only by the
change in patenting, but by the increased dimensions of
the grant. The fact that the provision for the free transportation of troops and property of the United States, contained in section 3 of the first act, appeared substantially
unchanged in the eighth section of the last act is of no significance, as the purpose of the reenactment had no relation to
that requirement. The second proviso of section 1 and section
5 of the act of 1856 were not renacted manifestly because no
change was required, and the provision of section 3 of the act
of 1864 that the grant should be subjected to the same terms
and conditions as the grant by the act of 1856, dispensed
with the necessity of repetition. Giving this operation to the
plain language of that provision, as we must, involves no
inconsistency in respect of the terms and conditions contained
in the provisos and sections which were re~nacted, since the
rednactment was due to the necessity of modification axising

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

under the new grant and- indicated no intention to withdraw
any of the original terms and conditions.
An intention to surrender the right to demand the carriage
of the mails over the subsidized roads at reasonable charges
would be opposed to the policy established by well-nigh uniform Congressional legislation on the subject, and although
there may have been departures from that policy in a few
instances, under exceptional circumstances, none of them
justify the contention that such denarture was intended here.
We think it follows, also, that there is no room for concluding that the words "the same terms and conditions as are
contained in" the act of 1856, should be confined to the terms
and conditions contained in the first section of that act, or
rather in its second proviso, as the first and third provisos
were rednacted. The three provisos of the granting section
of the act of 1856 did not embody all the terms and conditions
imposed on that grant, and as the grant of the act of 1861
was subjected to the same terms and conditions as those of the
prior act, and it was as true of the reenacted sections as it was
of the renacted provisos, that they were alike reenacted to
adapt the last act to the changes in the extent and manner of
the new grant, we regard the suggestion which would restrict
the words used to the second proviso and exclude the fifth
section as obviously inadmissible.
Nor are we able to concur in the view that the general
polidy of the act of 1864. was inconsistent with the imposition
of the duty of transporting the mails. The argument is that
the grant of 1856 was not sufficiently favorable to induce the
building of the roads and that, therefore, Congress in 1864:
deemed it proper and necessary to make a more favorable
grant and did so in part by dispensing with this duty, but this
will not do, for the inducements were made greater by adding
two-thirds more land, and at the same.time it was expressly
provided that the increased grant should be subject to the
same terms and conditions as the earlier one. We find nothing in the record to give color to the suggestion that in
addition to the increase of the grant Congress intended to
surrender the rights of the government in respect of mail

WISCONSIN CENTRAL R'D v. UNITED STATES.

205

Opinion of the Court.

transportation. Wisconsin Central Railroadv. United States,
159 U. S. 46.
Some reliance is placed by appellant on departmental construction, but we may dismiss that contention with the observation that we do not consider the true construction as
doubtful, and that the departmental construction referred to
was neither contemporaneous nor continuous. United States
v. Alabama Southern Railroad,142 U. S. 615; United States
v. Healey, 160 U. S. 136.
We agree entirely with the Cqurt of Claims that the terms
and conditions imposed on this grant embraced the condition
that the mail should be carried at such rates as Congress might
fix, and that section 13 of the act of July 12, 1876, c. 179, 19
Stat. 78, was applicable. The item of $16,343.48 was properly
disallowed as was also the item of $12,532.43, unless the latter
was recoverable by reason of some ground of objection to its
extinguishment by the application of the sums unlawfully paid
to and received by the company.
And as to that it is insisted that such application cannot be
made because it was not competent for the Postmaster General to withhold the moneys, thus paid without authority of
law, as the previous directions to make the payments were
decisions binding on the department; because the payments
were voluntarily made on due consideration and deliberation
and the accounts settled; and because no counterclaim was
filed.
The Postmaster General in directing payment of compensation for mail transportation, under the statutes providing the
rate and basis thereof, does not act judicially, and whatever
the conclusiveness of executive acts so far as executive departments are concerned, as a rule of administration, it has long
been settled that the action of executive officers in matters of
account and payment cannot be regarded as a conclusive determination when brought in question in a court of justice.
United States v. Harmon, 43 Fed. Rep. 560, by Mr. Justice
Gray; S. C. 147 U. S. 268; Hunter v. United States, 5 Pet.
173; United States v. Jones, 8 Pet. 387; United States v.
Bank of M-etropolis, 15 Pet. 377.

OCTOBE R TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

In the latter case, which was a suit upon negotiable drafts
accepted by the Postmaster General (the authority to do so
being assumed for the purpose of the case), and which was
decided after the passage of the a6t of July 2, 1836, c. 270, 5
Stat. 80, 83, whose seventeenth section was carried forward as
section 4051 of the Revised Statutes, Mr. Justice Wayne, delivering the opinion of the court, discussed the power of a
succeeding Postmaster General to revise the action of his
predecessor as to credits, as follows:
"The third instruction asked the court to say, among other
things, if the credits given by Mr. Barry, were for extra allowances, which the said Postmaster General was not legally
authorized to allow, then it was the duty of the present Postmaster General to disallow such items of credit. The successor
of Mr. Barry had the same power, and no more, than his predecessor, and the power of the former did not extend to the
recall of credits or allowances made by Mr. Barry, if he acted
within the scope of official authority given by law to the head
of the department. This right in an incumbent of reviewing a
predecessor's decisions, extends to mistakes in matters of fact
arising from errors in calculation, and to cases of rejected
claims, in which material testimony is afterwards discovered
and produced. But if a credit has been given, or an allowance
-made, as these were, by the head of a department, and it is
-alleged to be an illegal allowance, the judicial tribunals of the
country must be resorted to, to construe the law under whili
the allowance was made, and to settle the rights between the
United States and the party to whom the credit was given.
"It is no longer a case between the correctness of one officer's
judgment and that of his successor. A third party is interested, and he cannot be deprived of a payment on a credit so
given, but by the intervention of a court to pass upon his right.
No statute is necessary to authorize the United States to sue
-in such a case. The right to sue is independent of statute, and
it may be done by the direction of the incumbent of the department. The act of 2d July, 1836, entitled 'An act to
change the organization of the Post Office Department,' is
only affirmative of the antecedent right of the government

WISCONSIN CENTRAL R'D v, UNITED STATES.

207

Opinion of the Court.

to sue, and directory to the Postmaster General to cause
suits to be brought in the cases mentioned in the seventeenth
section of that act. It also excludes him from determining,
finally, any case which he may suppose to arise under that
section. His duty is to cause a suit to be brought. Additional
allowances, the Postmaster General- could make under the
forty-third section of the act of March 2, 1825 (3 Story, 1985);
and we presume it was because allowances were supposed to
have been made contrary to that law, that the seventeenth
section of the act of 2d July, 1836, was passed. In this last,
the extent of the Postmaster General's power in respect fo
allowances, is too plain to be mistaken.
"We cannot say that either of the sections of the acts of
1825, and 1836, just alluded to, covers the allowances made by
Mr. Barry to Reeside. But if the -PostmasterGeneral thought
they did, and that such a defence could have availed against
the rights of the bank to claim these acceptances, as credits in
this, suit, the same proof which would have justified a recovery in an action by the United States, would have justified
the rejection of them as credits when they are claimed as a
set off."
The view thus indicated that executive decisions in cases
like the present are not binding on the courts has been repeatedly affirmed and steadily adhered to. Gordon v. United
States, 1 C. 0l. 1; MeElrath v. United States, 12 0. 01. 201 ;'
.Duvalv. United States, 25 C. 01. 46; Steele v. United States,
113 U. S. 128; United States v. Burclard, 125 U. S. 176;
United States v. Stahl, 151 U. S. 366. And it has been often
applied in the instance of the improvident issue of patents:
United States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525; United .States v. Minor,
114 U. S. 233; Mullan v. United States, 118 U. S. 271;
Wi8consin Railroad Co. v. Forsythe, 159 U. S. 46.
In Steele v. United States, the Navy Department in contracting with the claimant for certain work upon vessels,
delivered to him certain old materials at the agreed price of
$2000, which was considerably less than the true value. In
his suit for payment on thd contract it was contended that
the delivery of these materials to him at an agreed price was

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

without warrant of law, and that the materials having been
disposed of should be accounted for by the claimant at their
true value. This contention was sustained, and this court
said: "The fact that the account of the appellant was settled
by the officers of the Navy Department, by charging him
with the value of the old material at $2000, is no bar to
the recovery of its real value by the government. *The whole
transaction was illegal, and appellant is chargeable with
knowledge of the fact."
In United States v. Burchard, the claimant, an engineer
officer, retired October 26, 1874, and entitled to half sea pay,
was paid from said date up to April 1, 1878, at a higher rate,
whereby he received $425 in excess of that allowed by law,
*his pay at that rate being passed from .time to time by both
the disbursing officers in the Navy Department and by the
accounting officers. After April 1, 1878, he was paid at a
lower rate, which this court held to be the legal rate. He
brought suit for the difference after 1878, and the government counterclaimed for the $425 paid to him prior to that
time. His petition was dismissed, and the court held the
govdrnment could recover the overpayment for the prior
period. :Mr. Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the court,
observed that in no event was he entitled to more than half
sea pay, and that all over that which he 'got was by a mistake of the accounting officers, and said: "It only remains to
consider whether the amount which has thus been paid, or
as much thereof as is embraced in the counterclaim' can be
recovered back in this action, and we are of the opinion that
it can. The action -was brought by Burchard to recover a
balance claimed to be due on pay account from the date of
his retirement. He had been paid according to his present
claim until April 1, 1878, and consequently there was nothing
to complain of back of that date. But in reality the account
had never been closed, and was always open to adjustment.
Overpayments made at one" time by mistake could be corrected and properly charged against credits coming in afterwards. His pay was fixed by law, and the disbursing officers
of the department had no authority to allow him any more.

WISCONSIN CENTRAL R'D v. UNITED STATES.

209

Opinion of the Court.

If they did, it was in violation of the law, and he has no
right to keep what he thus obtained. Whether the government can in any case be precluded from reclaiming money
which has been paid by its disbursing and accounting officers
under a mistake of law, is a question which it is not now necessary to decide any more than it was in McE1rath v. United
tates, 102 U. S. 426, 441, when it was sugoested. This is
a case where the disbursing officers, supposing that a retired
officer of the navy was entitled to more than it turns out the
law allowed, have overpaid him. Certainly under such circumstances the mistake may be corrected."
In United States v. Stad, the claimant, a naval officer, upon
a difference of opinion as to the law, had been overpaid in the
grade then occupied by him, and sued for a deficiency claimed
to exist in his previous grade. This court sustained his contention as to the previous grade, and held that he had been
entitled in that grade to the increased compensation, but that
the excessive payments which had been made to him in the
latter grade should be deducted from any sum which might be
found due him in the former.
In .Mullan v. United States, a suit to vacate a patent which
had been granted for certain' coal lands, the coui't held that
the mistake was one of law, but that nevertheless it having
been committed and the patent given for lands which the
land officers were not authorized to patent, the patent could
be annulled by the court. And Mr. Chief Justice Waite said:
"It is no doubt true that the actual character of the lands was
as well known at the Department of the Interior 'as it was
anywhere else, and that the Secretary approved the lists, not
because he was mistaken about the facts, but because he was
of opinion that coal lands were not mineral lands within the
meaning of the act of 1853, and that they were open to selection by the State; but this does not alter the case. The list
was certified without authority of law, -nd, therefore, by a
mistake against which relief in equity may be afforded. As
was said in United States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525, 535: 'The
patent is but evidence of a grant, and the officer who issues it
acts ministerially and not judicially. If he issues a patent for
VOL. CLXIV-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

land- reserved from sale by law, such patent is void for want
of authority. But one officer of the land office is not competent to cancel or annul the act of his predecessor. That is a
judicial act, and requires the judgment of a court.'"
In Wisconsin Central Pailroad Co. v. fforeythe, which was
an action of ejectment to recover certain lands claimed to have
been included within its grant, but which defendant insisted
were outside of its grant and subject to private entry, this
court said: "But further, it is urged that this question of title
has been determined in the land department adversely to the
claim of the plaintiff. This is doubtless true, but it was so
determined, not upon any question of fact,. but upon the construction of the law ; and such matter, as we have repeatedly
held, is not concluded by the decision of the land depa'tment."
As a general rule, and on grounds of public policy, the government cannot be bound by the action of its officers, who
must be held to the performance of their duties within the
strict limits of their, legal authority, where by misconstruction
of the law under which they have assumed to act, unauthorized payments are made-. - Wh iteside v. United States, 93 U. S.
247; 11aw1kins v. United States, 96 U. S. 689, and cases before
cited. The question is not presented as between the government and its officer, or between the officer and the recipient
of such payments, but as hetween the. g'overnment and the
recipient, and is then a question whether the latter can be
allowed to retain the fruits of actions not authorized by law,
resulting from an erroneous conclusion by the agent of the
government as to the legal effect of the particular statutory
law under or in reference to which he is proceeding.
Section 4057 of the Revised Statutes reads: "In all cases
where money has been paid out of the funds of the Post Office
Department under the pretence that service had been performed
therefor, when, in fact, such service has not been performed,
or as -additional allowance for increased service actually rendered, when the additional allowance exceeds the sum w.hich,
according to law, might rightfully have been allowed therefor,
and in all other cases where money of the department has been
paid to any person in consequence of fraudulent representa-

WISCONSIN CENTRAL R'D v. UNXITED STATES.

211

Opinion of the Court.

tions, or by the mistake, collusion or misconduct of any
officer or other employs in the postal service, the Postmaster
General shall cause suit to be brought to recover such wrong
or fraudulent payment or excess, with interest thereon."
Undoubtedly the word "mistake," as used in this section,
includes an erroneous conclusion in the construction or application of a statute. And, this being so, as the duty is devolved
on the Postmaster General to cause suit to be brought where
money has been illegally paid by reason of misconstruction or
misapprehension of the applicable law, it follows that he must
be regarded as empowered to reconsider prior decisions to
determine whether such a mistake has been committed or not.
If in his judgment money has been paid without authority of
law and he has money of the same claimant in his hands, he
is not compelled to pay such money over and sue to recover
the illegal payments, but may hold it subject to the decision
of the court when the claimant sues. United States v. Carr,
132 U. S. 6144; Gratiot v. United States, 15 Pet. 936; Steele v.
United States, United States v. Burehard, United States v.
Stahl, siTfra. And in that way multiplicity of suits and circuity of action are avoided.
It is unnecessary to go into a discussion of the exceptions
which may exist between private parties to the rule that
moneys paid through mistake of law cannot be recovered
back.
This branch of the case was disposed of by the Court of
Claims on the authority of Duval v. United States, 25 0. 01.
46. It was there held that "the items of the several statements upon which the Sixth Auditor certifies balances due
for carrying the mails ordinarily, and in the absence of special
circumstances, may be regarded as running accounts, at least
while the parties continue the same dealings between themselves; and that money paid in violation of law upon balances
certified by the accounting officers generally may be recovered
back by counterclaim or otherwise where no peculiar circumstances appear to make such recovery inequitable and unjust."
The mistake was, indeed, treated as one of fact, the Post
Office officials erroneously assuming through oversight that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

road in question had not been aided by grants of land, but the
governing principle in the case before us is the same.
Reference was made to Barnes v. Districtof Columbia, 22
C. C1. 366, 394, wherein it was ruled, Richardson, 0. J., delivering the opinion, that "The doctrine that money paid can
be recovered back when paid in mistake of fact and not of
law does not have so general application to public officers
using the funds of the people as to individuals dealing with
their own money where nobody but themselves suffer for
their ignorance, carelessness, or indiscretion, because in the
former case the elements of agency and the authority and
duty of officers, and their obligations to the public, of which all
persons dealing with them are bound to take notice, are always
involved." We concur in these views, and are of opinion that
there is nothing on this record to take the case out of the scope
of the principle that parties receiving moneys illegally paid by
a public officer are liable ex wquo et bono to refund them.
The petition sets forth, among other things, that the Postmastek General 'wrongfully and unlawfully, withheld the
$12,532.43 out of moneys due petitioner, which was, therefore,
entitled to recover the full amount.; and to each and every
allegation of the petition the government interposed a general
traverse. It is now said that a counterclaim or set off should
have been pleaded, but the record does not disclose that this
objection was raised below, while the findings of fact show
that the entire matter was before the court for, and received,
adjudication. M oreover, it has been repeatedly held that the
forms of pleading in the Court of Claims are not of so strict
a character as to require omissions of this kind to be held
fatal to the iendition of such judgment as the facts demand.
United States v. Bu -ns, 12 Wall. 246, 254; Clark v. UJnited
States, 95 U. S. 539, 543; United States v. Behan, 110 U. S.
338, 34'7; United States v. Carr, 132 U. S.644, 650.
Judgment qfirmed.
MR. JusTrce PEcxn dissented on the question of the
right of the government ta offset the- alleged overpayments
prior to July 1, 18.83.

