EDGINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

operation of general and undiscriminating state laws on the
contracts of national banks, so long as such laws do not conflict with the letter or the object and purpqses of Congressional legislation."
Finding no conflict between the special power conferred by
Congress upon national banks to take real estate for certain
purposes, and the general and undiscriminating law of the
State of Massachusetts subjecting the taking of real estate to
certain restrictions, in order to prevent preferences in case of
insolvency, we conclude that the judgments of the Supreme
Court of the State of Massachusetts were right, and they are,
therefore, in both cases,
______Affirmed-

EDGINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROV TO THE DISTIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 886. Submitted November 2, 1896.-Decided November 80, 1896.

Section 5438 of the Revised Statutes (codified from the act of March 2,
1863, c. 67, 12 Stat. 696) is wider in its scope than section 4746, (codified
from the act of March 3, 1873, c. 234, 17 Stat. 575,) and its provisions
were not repealed by the latter act.
On the trial of a person accused of the commission of crime, he may,
without offering himself as a witness, call witnesses to show that his
character was such as to make it unlikely that he would be guilty of the
crime charged; and such evidence is proper for the consideration of
the jury, in determining whether there is a reasonable doubt of the guilt
of the accused.
AT the March term, 1895, in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Iowa, Avington A.
Edgington was tried and found guilty of the crime of making
a false deposition on April 13, 1894, in aid of a fraudulent
pension claim on behalf of his mother, Jennie M. Edgington,
claiming to be the widow of Francis M. Edgington.
The indictment was based on section 5438 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, and it was claimed on behalf of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant that that section had been repealed by the
subsequent enactment of section 4746 of the Revised Statutes,
and was no longer in force at the time the indictment was
.found. Tho motion to direct a verdict of not guilty for that
reason was overruled, to which action of the court an exception
was taken. Exceptions were also taken to the action of the
court in excluding testimony as to the defendant's general
reputation for truth And veracity, and to the instructign to
the jury upon the testimony as to the good character of the
defendant.
On April 30, 1895, judgment was pronounced against the
defendant that he pay a fine of fifteen hundred dollars and
the costs, and that he stand committed to jail until said fine
and costs should be paid. A writ of error was prayed for and
allowed.
-Mr. Smith JcIherson, -Hr. A. H. Garland and .Mr. R. C.
Garlandfor plaintiff in error.
-Yr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
MR. JusTcR, SnnmAs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Section 5438 of the Revised Statutes makes it penal to
make or cause to be made, for the purpose of obtaining or
aiding to obtain payment or approval of any claim against
the United States, any. false deposition, knowing the same
to contain any fraudulent or fictitious statement; and such
offence is made punishable by imprisonment at hard labor
for not less than one nor more than five years, or by fine of
not less than one thousand nor more than five thousand dollars.
The statute which was carried into this section of the Revised
Statutes was enacted March 2, 1863. 12 Stat. 696, c. 67.
Section 4746 is based on a statute passed March 3, 1873,
c. 234, § 33, 17 Stat. 566, 575, and provides a penalty of a fine
not exceeding five hundred dollars, or of imprisonment for

EDGINGTON v. UNITED STATES.

363

Opinion of the Court.

a term not exceeding three years, or of both, for every person
who knowingly or wilfully in anywise procures the making or
presentation of any false or fraudulent affidavit concerning
any claim for pension, or payment thereof, or pertaining to
any other matter within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner
of Pensions.
We are unable to accept the contention that the latter
section is to be deemed a repeal of the former. Undoubtedly
there is so5me ground thatis common to both. Thus the procuring or causing to be made a false deposition or affidavit in
promoting a fraudulent pension claim is made an offence by
both statutes. But the earlier statute is wider.in its scope,
because not restricted to fraudulent pension claims, nor to
merely procuring a false affidavit to be made. We think the
offence charged in the present indictment, of making a false
deposition in aid of a fraudulent pension claim, is properly
within section 5438, and not within section 4146, which is in
terms applicable only to the offence of procuring another
person to commit the offence.
We are constrained to sustain the assignments which complain of the exclusion of testimony offered to show defendant's
general reputation for truth and veracity. It is not necessary
to cite authorities to show that, in .criminal prosecutions, the
accused will be allowed to call witnesses to show that his
character was such as would make it unlikely that he would
be guilty of the particular crime with which he is charged.
And as here the defendant was charged with a species of the
crimen falsi, the rejected evidence was material and competent. This, indeed, is conceded in the brief for the government; but it is argued that, as the learned judge, in overruling
the offer of the .evidence, observed that the testimony might
"become proper later on," he was merely passing on the
order of proof, his. discretion in respect to which is not reversible. It is possible, as suggested, that the judge thought
that such evidence should not he offered until it appeared that
the defendant had himself testified. But this would show a misconception of the reason why the evidence was competent. It
was not intended to give weight to the defendgnt's personal

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

testimony in the case, but to establish a general character
inconsistent with guilt of the crime with which he stood
charged; and the evidence was admissible whether or not
the defendant himself testified. When testimony, competent
and material, has been offered and erroneously rejected, the
error is not cured by a conjecture that if offered at a stbsequent period in the trial the evidence might have been
admitted. It should also be observed that when a subsequent
offer to the same effect was made the judge rejected it without
qualification.
There was likewise error in that portion of the charge inwhich the judge instructed the jury as to the effect that they
should give to the testimony showing the defendant's good
character.
It is proper to give the judge's own language:
"Some testimony has been given you touching the good
character of the defendant. When a man is charged with
crime the courts of tho United States permit this question of
good character to be introduced to go to the jury. The
theory, as I view it, is a wise one. If a man, in the community where he lives, by his incoming and outgoing among
his neighbors, has built up in the years of his life, be they
comparatively few or many, a character among them for
good morals, which includes the uprightness and excellency
of our general citizenship, it is right that the jury should
know that fact. It is of value to them in conflicting cases
in determining points in the case; and yet, gentlemen, I have
to say to you that evidence of good character is no defence
against crime actually proven. If the defendant in this case
is proven guilty of crime charged, any good character borne
l y him in his community is no defence; it must not change
your verdict; for the experience of mankind, of all of us,
teaches us that men reputed to be of good moral character
in a community unfortunately sometimes we find they are
sadly different from that which they are reputed to be, and
that they are committers of crime; yet the good character
goes to the jury with special force wherever the commission
of the crime is doubtful, If your mind hesitates on any

EDGLNGTON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

point as to the guilt of this defendant, then you have the
right and should consider the testimony given as to his good
character, and it becomes, as I have suggested, or may be of
great importance in the minds of the jury in the matters of
doubt."
To this portion of the charge the defendant's counsel took
exception in the following terms: "We except to that part
of th6 charge in stating the effect of good character, the
defendant claiming that it should not be of force only in
doubtful cases, but should be considered by the jury in connection with all of the evidence as to whether or not on all
the evidence there is a reasonable doubt."
Some criticism is offered to the exception as made to the
whole paragraph, and thus coming within cited cases, to the
effect that exceptions are not well taken to an entire charge,
or to large portions of a charge, if the instructions complained
of are, as to some of them, sound. There is a reasonable rule
that if the entire charge is excepted to, or a series of propositions contained in it is excepted to in gross, the exception
cannot be sustained if there were a distinct proposition or
instruction given that was sound. Waiving the question as
to how far this rule is justly applicable to the case of a charge
in a criminal case, we are of opinion that, in the present instance, the criticism is not well founded. The paragraph of
the charge excepted to does not contain instructions on separate and distinct propositions, some of which are sound and
others not so. The subject treated of in the paragraph is
the single one of the proper effect to be given by the jury
to the evidence of the defendant's good character. A fair
understanding of the meaning of the instruction cannot be
reached without reading and weighing the entire paragraph.
There wojuld have been more room for just criticism had the
defendant taken exception to sentences or phrases detached
from their connection.
If formally correct, was the exception in question substantially well taken? Was the charge, in the particular complained of, a correct exposition of the law?
It is impossible, we think, to read the charge without per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

ceiving that the leading thought in the mind of the learned
judge was that evidence of good character could only be
considered if the rest of the evidence created a doubt of
defendant's guilt. He stated that such evidence "€is of value
in conflicting cases," and that if the mind of the jury "hesitates on any point as to the guilt of the defendant, then you
have the right and should consider the testimony given as
to his good character."
Whatever may have been said in some of the earlier cases,
to the effect that evidence of the good character of the
defendant is not to be considered unless the other evidence
leaves the mind in doubt, the decided weight of authority
now is that good character, when considered in connection
with the other evidence in the case, may generate a reasonable doubt. The circumstances may be such that an established reputation for good character, if it is relevant to the
issue, would alone create a reasonable doubt, although without it the other evidence would be convincing.
Jupitz v. The Peoyle, 34: Illinois, 516, was a case where the
defendant was indicted for having received goods knowing
them to have been stolen, and his counsel requested the trial
judge to instruct the jury that the evidence of the good character of the defendant for honesty should have great weight
in determining as to his guilt or innocence. This was qualified
by the court by the addition of these words: "If the jury
believe there is any doubt of his guilt." This was held to be
error, and the Supreme Court of Illinois used the following
language:
"The instruction as asked may be objectionable on account
of the epithet great, but as that was n6t the ground of the
qualification, but on the ground, as is inferable, that the court
did not consider evidence of good character of any weight
except in a doubtful case. The more modern decisions in
criminal cases go to the extent that in all criminal cases,
whether the case is doubtful or not, evidence of good character
is admissible on the part of the prisoner.

.

.

.

We can

hardly imagine a case where evidence of a good character was
a more important element of defence than this, and in the lan-

NOBLE v. MTITCHELL.
Syllabus.

guage of the instruction was entitled to great weight. Proof
of uniform good character should raise a doubt of guilty
knowledge, and the prisoner would be entitled to the benefit
of that doubt. Proof of this kind may sometimes be the only
mode by which an innocent man can repel the presumption
of guilt arising from the possession of stolen goods. It is not
proof of innocence, although it may be sufficient to raise a
doubt of guilt. The court seemed to think it was entitled to
no weight, unless, taking the language used in its most favorable aspect, there was doubt of his guilt. A strong prima
,facie case was made out by the prosecution, but it was not
conclusive. If the court had told the jury that his good character should be taken into consideration by them, and was
entitled to much weight, a reasonable doubt of the prisoner's
guilt might have been raised which would have resulted in
his acquittal."
Similar conclusions were reached in Commonwealth v.
Leonard, 140 Mass. 470; leine v. Commonwealth, 91 Penn.
St. 145; Remen v. The People, 43 N. Y. 6; People v. Garbutt, 17 Michigan, 29; Wharton on Crim. Law, vol. 1, § 636.
We find no errors disclosed by the other assignments.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the cause
-remanded with directions to set aside the verdict and
award a new trial.
MR. JUsTIcE BREWER concurred in the judgment.
MR.JUSTIoE BRowx dissented.

NOBLE v. MITCHELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 101.

Submitted October 29, 1896. -Decided

November 30, 1896.

The construction by the Supreme Court of Alabama of §§ 1205, 1206 and
1207 of the code of that State, regulating the subject of fire and marine
insurance within the State by companies not incorporated therein, is,
under the circumstances presented by this case, binding on this court.

