PRESS PUBLISHING COIP ANY v. MKONROE.

105

Syllabus.

evidence of good character, we are of opinion that the charge
as given to the jury by the trial court amounted in substance
to the charge as requested.
When a jury has been properly instructed in regard to the
law on any given subject, the court is not bound to grant the
request of counsel to charge again in the language prepared
by counsel, or if the request be given before the charge is
made, the court is not bound to use the language of counsel,
but may use its own language so long as the correct rule upon
the'subject requested be given. When the court told the jury
it was admitted that the defendant was a man of good character, and that the jury might consider such good character
and give such weight to it as they saw proper under all the
evidence in the case, and that the defendant was entitled to a
reasonable doubt, it was sufficient, although the court unnecessarily added that the law presumed every defendant to have
a good character. The charge gave the jury the right to give
weight enough to the evidence to generate a reasonable doubt
of the guilt of the defendant, and a substantial compliance
with the request was made, although not in the very words
thereof.
The record reveals no error, and the judgment must be
Afflrmed.

PRESS PUBLISHING COMPANY v. MONROE.
ERROR TO

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR

THE

SECOND

CIRCUIT.
No. 4 9. Submitted October 19, 1696. -Decided

November 9, 1696.

In an action between citizens of different States, brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States, for the violation of an author's common
law right in his unpublished manuscript, and in which the defendant
relies on the Constitution and laws of the United States concerning copyrights, and, after judgment against him in the Circuit Court, takes the
case by writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals, he is not entitled,
as of right, to have its judgment reviewed by this court under the act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 6.

OCTOBER TERM,

1896.

Statement of the Case.

THIS was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York by Harriet Monroe against the Press Publishing Company for the
wrongful publication of an unpublished manuscript.
The complaint alleged that the plaintiff was a citizen of the
-State of Illinois, and a resident in the city of Chicago; and
that the defendant was a citizen of the State of New York, a
resident in the city of New York, and a corporation created
and existing by force of and under the laws of that State, and
having its chief place of business in that city, and its business
that of editing, publishing, selling and distributing a newspaper called The World.
. The complaint further alleged that prior to September, 1892,
the plaintiff had composed and written out in manuscript, but
had not published, a lyrical ode, the work of her intellect and
imagination; that on September 23, 1892, a committee of the
World's Columbian Exposition made an agreement with the
plaintiff, whereby, for a good consideration, they were licensed
by her to use the ode, for the sole purpose of having it read or
sung, or partly read and partly sung, on the public occasion
of the dedicatory ceremonies of that exposition in the city of
Chicago on October 21, 1892; that the general ownership of
the literary production, with the right of unlimited publication after that date, remained in the plaintiff ; that during the
ten days preceding said 23d of September, she delivered to
the committee the manuscript of the ode, for the purpose
expressed in the agreement of license, and with the injunction
that the manuscript should be held secret, in order that the
plaintiff's right of property should be preserved inviolate, and
especially that premature publication should be avoided; and
that the utmost care was taken, both by the plaintiff and by
the committee, to prevent or forestall piratical attempts on
the part of newspapers; but that the defendant, through its
officers and agents, between September 14 and September 23,
1892, surreptitiously obtained from the rooms of the committee
the manuscript, or a copy thereof, and sent the same to its
office in New York, and, disregarding a protest sent by the
plaintiff by telegraph, published in its paper of September 25

PRESS PUBLISHING COMPANY v. MONROE.

107

Statement of the Case.

the ode, with many errors, making portions of the poem appear
meaningless, and with a grotesquely incorrect analysis, calculated to produce a false and ludicrous impression of the work;
and that these wrongful acts of the defendant deprived the
plaintiff of gains she would otherwise have received from
the sale of the ode, and damaged her reputation as an author,
and were a wilful, wanton and unlawful trespass upon her
rights, and subjected her to shame, mortification and great
personal annoyance; and alleged damages in the sum of
p'25,000.
A motion by the defendant, at the commencement of the
trial, to compel the plaintiff "to elect between the two causes
of action set forth in the complaint," was denied by the court
as immaterial, because the plaintiff's counsel declared in open
court that "there is but one cause of action stated in the complaint, to wit, literary piracy of a manuscript before publication, and a violation of a common law right."
At the trial, the plaintiff introduced evidence tending to
support the allegations of the complaint (except that no evidence of pecuniary damage was offered) and put in evidence
a receipt, signed by the plaintiff, and in these terms
Received, Chicago, the 23d day of September, 1892, from
the World's Columbian Exposition, one thousand dollars
($1000) in full payment for ode composed by me. It is
understood and agreed that said Exposition Company shall
have the right to furnish copies for publication to the newspaper press of the world, and copies for free distribution if
desired, and also may publish same in the official history of
the dedicatory ceremonies: and, subject to the concession
herein made, the author expressly reserves her copyright
therein."
The plaintiff testified that portions of the ode consisted of
lyrical songs intended to be set to music and sung by the chorus,
and that the rest was to be read; that a musical composer
was engaged to write the music for the portions to be sung,
and she gave him permission to publish those portions, because it was necessary for rehearsals by the chorus, and they
were published in connection with the music; but that she

OCTOBER TERIV, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

never, before the dedication day, gave any permission for the
publication or public use of any other part of.the poem.
The plaintiff also testified that in May, 1892, she applied to
-the librarian of Congress for a copyright of the ode, and
deposited with him a copy of its title only; and on October
22, the day after the dedicatory ceremonies, and not before,
deposited- with him two copies of the ode.
At the close of the whole evidence, the defendant moved
the, court to direct a verdict for the defendant, upon the
grounds that the plaintiff had failed to show title to the
ode; that she had disposed of her rights of property in the
ode to the World's Columbian Exposition; that, in view of
the contemplated publication in the newspapers, there could
be no valid retention of any copyright; that any newspaper
publication was an infringement of the rights of the Exposition, and not of the plaintiff; and that the only reservation
in the contract between her and the Exposition was of her
copyright, and, in view of the fact that no copyright was
taken out until after October 21, there had been no infringement of her copyright; and upon the further grounds "that
the plaintiff has failed to make out a cause of action, in that
this is an action founded upon a statute which authorizes the
maintaining of an action for damages occasioned to the plaintiff, and, in view of the fact that there is no evidence in this
case of the plaintiff's having suffered damage, no cause of
action has been made out" and "that the statutes and Constitution of the United States have taken away the common
law right, and all remedies, except under the statutes of the
United States."
The court overruled this motion, as well as a subsequent
motion to instruct the jury accordingly; and instructed the
jury as follows:
"The action is not an action of libel. It is an action to
recover damages for the alleged violation of the plaintiff's
copyright in her unpublished manuscript ode. It is an
action for an injury to property.
"Copyright is of two kinds. The first is the common law
right of an author or proprietor of an unpublished manuscript

PRESS PUBLISHING COMPANY v. MONROE.

109

Statement of the Case.

to the possession and control of his or her manuscript, and to
direct and control the circulation of the copies which he or
she may make or cause to be made for his or her use, prior
to the publication thereof. It is the original ownership of the
manuscript, and of the copies which the author or proprietor
has made for his or her use, before it is given to the public.
Statutory copyright is the exclusive right granted by statute
to the owner or proprietor of a printed book or other printed
publication to publish, print and sell copies of the book or
publication, for a specific period of time. If the statutory
formalities have been complied with, the right becomes complete upon the publication of the book.
"This case is not one of statutory copyright. While some
of the preliminaries to the establishment of such a right had
been taken, the right was not complete, and on September
24, 1892, did not exist. On that day, a copy of the unpublished manuscript came into the possession of the defendant.
It had not then been published, although typewritten copies
had been made for the examination and use of the musical
composer, and for the examination of the committee whose
duty it was to approve the work. This circulation of copies
did not amount to what the law calls publication.
"The exclusive owner or proprietor of an unpublished
manuscript has the exclusive right to its possession, and to
direct and control its use -the same right which the owner
of any other article of personal property has to its ownership
and use. The trespasser upon that right is liable in damages."
The court further instructed the jury that the Exposition,
by the terms of its contract with the plaintiff, "had the legal
right to distribute copies to the newspaper press, and for free
publication, before as well as after the day of dedication;"
but that, "subject to those concessions, the author reserved
her other rights of copyright therein;" and that the plaintiff,
upon the evidence in the case, might recover exemplary damages against the defendant.
The defendant excepted to the instructions given, and to
the refusal to instruct as requested. The jury returned a
verdict for the plaintiff in the sun of $5000, and judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

was rendered thereon, which was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 38 U. S. App. 410. The defendant thereupon sued out the present writ of error, and a motion was
now made to dismiss it for want of jurisdiction.
MAr. George H Yeamran and Mr. flenry S. .Monroe for the
motion.
Mr. John X Bowers opposing.
MR. JUSTICE GRiY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Of suits of a civil nature, at law or in equity, the Circuit
Courts of the United States have original jurisdiction, by reason
of the citizenship of the parties, in cases between citizens of different States or between citizens of a State and aliens; and by
reason of the cause of action," in cases arising under the Constitution or laws of United States, or treaties made orwhich
shall be made under their authority," including, of course,
suits arising under the patent or copyright laws of the United
States. Act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, § 1; 25 Stat. 433;
Rev. Stat. § 629, c. 9. In order to give the Circuit Court
jurisdiction of a case as one arising under the Constitution,
laws or treaties of the United States, that it does so arise must
appear from the plaintiff's own statement of his claim. Colo,rado Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S. 138; Tennessee v. Union & Planters'
Bank, 152 U. S. 454; Oregon &c. Railway v. Skottowe, 162
U. S. 490; 11anford v. Davies, 163 U. S. 273.
From final judgments of the Circuit Court in civil suits an
appeal or writ of error lies to this- court, or to the Circuit
Court of Appeals. It lies directly to this court in any case in
which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is in issue; and in
such case the question of jurisdiction only is certified to and
decided by this court. It also lies directly from the Circuit
Court to this court in cases involving the construction or application of the Constitution, or the constitutionality of a law, or
the validity or construction of a treaty, of the United States,

PRESS PUBLISHING COMPANY v. MONROE.

111

Opinion of the Court.

or in which the constitution or a law of a State is claimed to
be in contravention of the Constitution of the United States;
and in any of these cases the appellate jurisdiction of this
court is not limited to the constitutional question, but extends
to the determination of the whole case. Act of March 3, 1891,
c. 517, § 5; 26 Stat. 827, 828; iHorner v. United Stateo, 143
U. S. 570; Chaypell v. United States, 160 U. S. 499.
From final judgments of the Circuit Court in all other civil
suits an appeal or writ of error lies to the Circuit Court of
Appeals; and the judgments rendered thereon by the Circuit
Court of Appeals are final (unless this court, by writ of certiorari or otherwise, orders the whole case to be brought up for
its decision) in all cases in which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court "is dependent entirely upon the parties being aliens
and citizens of the United States, or citizens of different States;"
as well as in cases arising under the patent laws, or under the
revenue laws. In all other civil actions (including those arising
under the copyright laws of the United States), if the matter
in controversy exceeds $1000, besides costs, there is, as of right,
an appeal or writ of error to bring the case to this court. Act
of Mfarch 3, 1891, c. 517, § 6.
This plaintiff in error, having been defeated in the Circuit
Court, did not bring the case directly to this court, as one
involving the construction or application of the Constitution
of the United States, or upon any other of the grounds specified in section 5 of the act of 1891. But it took the case,
under section 6, to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and having
been again defeated in that court, now claims, as of right, a
review by this court of the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals being made
final in all cases in which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
is dependent entirely upon the parties being citizens of different Sttes, but not final in cases arising under the copyright
laws of the United States, where the matter in controversy
exceeds $1000, the test of the appellate jurisdiction of this
court over the case at bar is whether it was one arising under
the copyright laws of the United States, or was one in which

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court wholly depended upon
the parties being citizens of different States.
The complaint, alleging-that the plaintiff was a citizen of
Illinois and the defendant a citizen of New York, and claiming damages in a sum of more than $2000, showed that the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the case by reason of the
parties being citizens of different States. The plaintiff, in her
complaint, did not claim any right under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, or in any way mention or refer to
that Constitution or to those laws; and, at the trial, she relied
wholly upon a right given by the common law, and maintained
her action upon such a right only. It was the defendant, and
not the plaintiff, who invoked the Constitution and laws of
the United States. This, as necessarily follows from the foregoing considerations, and as was expressly adjudged in Colorado C(o. v. Turck, above cited, is insufficient to support the
jurisdiction.of this court to review, by appeal or writ of error,
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The jurisdictioi of the Circuit Court having been obtained
and exercised solely. because of the parties being citizens of
different States, the judgment of tie Circuit Court of Appeals
was final, and the writ of error must be

Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

TIE UNITED STATES FOR

THlE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 355. Argued January 23, 24, 21, 1896.

Decided November 16,1696.

In a suit, brought in a Circuit Court of the United States by an alien
against a citizen of the State in which the court sits, claiming that an
act about to be (lone therein by the defendant to the injury of the plaintiff, under authority of a statute of the State, will be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States, and also in violation of the constitution of the State, the Federal courts have ju-isdiction of both classes of
questions; but, in exercising that jurisdiction as to questions arising

