OCTOBER TERME, 1896.
Syllabus.

honest and intelligent as himself. There was no error in these
instructions.
Several other assignments were made, to which it is unnecessary to call attention.
For the reasons above stated the judgment of the. court
below will be
.Affirmed.

WILLARD v. WOOD.
APPEAL

FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No.61. A'rgued October 26, 2t, 196.-Decded "Xovember 0, 1896.

Remedies are determined by the law of the forum; and, in the District of
Columbia the liability of a person-by reason of his accepting a conveyance of real estate, subject to a mortgage which he is to assume and pay,
is subject tothe limitation prescribed as to simple contracts, and is barred
by the application in equity, by analogy, of the bar of the statute at law.
The covenant attempted to be enforced in this suit was entered into in the
District of Columbia, between residents thereof, and, although Its performance was required elsewhere, the liability for non-performance was
governed by the law of-the obligee's domiil, operating to bar the obligation, unless suspended by the absence of the obligor.
If a plaintiff mistakes his remedy, in the absence of any statutory provision
saving his rights, or where from any cause a plaintiff becomes nonsuit,
or the action abates or is, dismissed, and during the pendency of the
action the limitation runs, the remedy is barred.
Courts of equity withhold relief from those who have delayed the assertion
of their claims for an unreasonable time; and this doctrine may be applied in the discretion of the court, even though the laches are not pleaded
or the bill demurred to.
laches may arise from failure in diligent prosecution of a suit, which may
have the same consequences as if no suit had been instituted.
In view of the laches disclosed by the record, that pearly sixteen years had
elapsed since Bryan entered into the covenant with Wood, when, on March
10, 1890, over eight years after the issue of the first sbbpcena, alias process was issued against Bryan and service had; that for seven years of
this period he had resided in the District; that for seven years he had
been a citizen of Illinois as he still remained; that by the law of Illinois the mortgagee may sue at law a grantee, who, by the terms of an
absolute conveyance from the mortgagor, assumes the payment of the
mortgage debt; that Christmas did not bring a suit against Bryan in IlIIi-

WILLARD v. WOOD.
Statement of the Case.
nols, nor was this bill filed during Bryan's residence in the District, and
when filed it was allowed to sleep for years without issue of process to
Bryan, and for five years after it had been dismissed as to Wood's representatives, Wood having been made defendant, by Christmas' ancillary
administrator, as a necessary party; that in the meantime Dixon had
been discharged in bankruptcy and had died; .Palmer had also departed
this life, leaving but little if any estate; Wood had deceased, his estate
been distributed, and any claim against him had been barred; and the
mortgaged property had diminished in value one half and had passed intothe ownership of Christmas' heirs: Held,
(I) That the equitable jurisdiction of the court ought not to be extended
to enforce a covenant plainly not made for the benefit of Christmas, and in respect of which he possessed no superior equities;
(2) That the changes which the lapse7 of time had wrought in the value
of the property and in the situation of the parties were such as to
render it inequitable to decree the relief sought as against Bryan;
(3) That, without regard to whether the barring in this jurisdiction of
the remedy merely as against Wood would or would not in itself
defeat a decree against Bryan, the relief asked for was properly
refused.

CHARLES

Christmas, a citizen of Brooklyn, New York, sold

and conveyed certain real estate there situated, for the consideration of $17,000, to one Dixon, who, to secure $14,000 of
the purchase money, executed July 7, 1868, a bond to Christmas for twice that amount, payable July 7, 1873, with semiannual interest at the rate of 7 per cent per annum, and also
a mortgage in fee of the property with power of sale in case
of default. Charles Christmas died, and January 20, 1869,
Charles H. Christmas, his executor, and Elizabeth Gignoux,
his executrix (two of his children), on dividing the estate of
the deceased, assigned the bond and mortgage to their brother,
Frederick L. Christmas, who died at Brooklyn, November 13,
1876, and of whose estate Charles H. Christmas was appointed
administrator June 28, 1877. April 19, 1869, for the consideration of $17,000, Dixon conveyed the real estate to W. W.
W. Wood, in fee, by a deed which declared that the conveyance was subject to the mortgage above mentioned, "which
said mortgage with the interest due and to grow due thereon,
the party of the second part hereby assumes and covenants to
pay, satisfy and discharge, the amount thereof forming a part
of the consideration herein expressed and having been deducted

OCTOBER TERMI,

1896.

Statement of the Case.

therefrom." This conveyance from Dixon to Wood was not
executed by Wood, but he entered into possession of the mortgaged premises, paid interest on the mortgage debt up to
February 1,, 1874, and diminished the principal of the debt
through two payments of' two thousand dollars each, the
last being made February 16, 1874.
By deed dated March 14, 1874, acknowledged March 17,
1874, and recorded in April, 1874, Wood, for the, recited consideration of $17,583, conveyed the mortgaged premises, in fee,
to Thomas B. Bryan, "subject however to a certain indenture of mortgage made by the former owner of said property
Martin Dixon to Charles Christmas to secure fourteen thousand dolls. (14,000,) dated July 7, 1868, recorded in the office
of the register of King's County, New York, in Liber 784 of
Mortgages, page 542, upon which principal sum there has
been paid the sum of four thousand dolls. (4000,) the said
Thos. B. Bryan hereby assuming and expressly agreeing to
pay the balance with the interest at 7 per ct., he signing this
deed in evidence of his said covenant." The deed was signed
by Bryan, as well as Wood and his wife, and at this date the
mortgage debt had- been overdue for about eight and one
half months.
By deed dated the same day, March 14, 1874, acknowledged
March 14, and recorded March 21, 1874, and for a like consideration of $17,583, Bryan conveyed certain lots in Washington to Wood, in fee, subject to three certain incumbrances
to secure an aggregate indebtedness of $7500, "which said
indebtedness with the interest thereon at ten (10) p'r c't p'r
annum, the said party of the second part hereby expressly
assumes, and he executes this deed, as one of the parties
thereto in evidence of his covenant to pay the same," but the
conveyance was not executed by Wood. The transaction
between Wood and Bryan was an exchange of property, the
property of Wood being incumbered with the debt of $10,000
with interest at seven per cent and.that of Bryan with an indebtedness of $7500 with interest at ten per cent per annum,
the consideration of the two being identical, and Wood paid
to Bryan $2000 in money to equalize the exchange. This

WILLARD v. WOOD.
Statement of the Case.

transaction occurred in the District of Columbia where Wood
and Bryan resided and w.here the conveyances were executed
and delivered. It appeared in evidence that Bryan resided in
the District in and after 1874; in the State of Colorado from
1881 to 1883; and from 1883 in the State of Illinois.
On March 20, 1874, the Brooklyn property with other real
estate was conveyed by Bryan to Waterman Palmer, in fee,'
by a deed bearing that date, acknowledged March 28, and
recorded April 9, 1874, and executed by both Bryan and
Palmer, subject to the mortgage and reciting that the, principal of the mortgage debt had been reduced *to $10,000, and
declaring that the balance and interest was "hereby expressly
assumed by said Palmer." The copy of the Dixon bond shows
payment of interest thereon for two years later than the period
up to which interest was paid by Wood. Bryan paid neither
principal nor interest upon the mortgage debt, nor was he
shown to have taken possession of the property.
Charles IH. Christmas, as administrator of Frederick L.
Christmas, filed a complaint August 28, 1877, in the county
court of King's County, for the foreclosure and sale of the
mortgaged premises -against Dixon, Palmer and wife, and
some others, averring that the co-defendants of Dixon had or
claimed to have some interest acquired subsequent to the
mortgage, and praying against Dixon only T personal judgment in case of deficiency of -proceeds of sale. To this suit
neither Wood nor Bryan was made a party, and none of the
defendants appeared, but some were brought in by personal
service of summons and some by publication. November 13,
1877, the cause was sent to a referee, who reported the next
day that the debt, with interest, amounted to $11,307.92,.and
on November 15, 1877, the report was confirmed and a sale
of the mortgaged premises by or under the direction of the
sheriff was ordered. The sheriff's report of sale was dated
January 5, 1878, and represented that he had on December
10, 1877, sold the mortgaged property for $5000 to Charles
H. Christmas, Elizabeth A. Gignoux and Harriet Gignoux, to
whom he had executed a deed (who were the heirs at law of
Frederick L. Christmas); that the proceeds of sale applied

OCTOBER TERM, 1896
Statement of the Case.

to the payment of the mortgage debt were $4556.61, and that
the debt itself with interest amounted to $11,422.14; that the
deficiency was $6865.63, and that this sum "should be docketed as judgment against Martin Dixon, one of the defendants
herein."
Some evidence was given of notices of a proposed sale in
May, 1877, being mailed in April, 1877, to Wood and Bryan
at Washington, and of an intention to hold them for any
deficiency, but Wood was dead many years before proofs
were taken in this cause, and Bryan could not recall having
received any such notice or having been otherwise notified in
any way.
The property had diminished in value from seventeen thousand dollars when Wood purchased to eight thousand dollars
when the sale took place.
Dixon died intestate March 13, 1878, domiciled at Brooklyn,
and on March 25, 1878, letters of administration were issued
there to his widow. The sheriff's report of the sale was filed
March 9, 1879, and confirmed April 17, 1879, and on November 11, 1880, the report of the sheriff was docketed as a
judgment against Dixon.
Dixon had been discharged in bankruptcy, March 1, 1878,
from all claims provable against his estate on December 7,
1877. In the schedule of his obligatfons appeared a debt of
$12,000 as due by the bankrupt to Charles H. Christmas as
administrator of Frederick L. Christmas, on the bond and
mortgage, and it was therein represented that the mortgaged
premises were equal in value to the debt.
Palmer died in 187.8 or 1879, having exhausted his estate.
Charles H. Christmas, as administrator of Frederick L.
Christmas, obtained leave from the Supreme Court of Brooklyn in April, 1879, to bring a suit against Wood and Bryan,
or either of them, to recover the deficiency reported by the
sheriff in the foreclosure proceeding, and July 24, 1879, an
action of covenant was commenced in this District against
Bryan in respect of the unpaid balance of the mortgage debt,
in the name of Wood for the use of Charles I. Christmas,

WILLARD v. WOOD.
Statement of the Case.

administrator of Frederick L. Christmas, to which Bryan
pleaded but which was subsequently dismissed.
February 27, 1880, letters of administration on the estate
of Dixon were issued in this District to Henry K. Willard'in
order to enable Willard as ancillary administrator of Dixon
to proceed against Wood for the sum of about $7000, which
Willard claimed in his application to be due to the estate of
Dixon in law, but equitably to Charles H. Christmas, administrator. The petition averred the death of Dixon intestate,
that he "did not die insolvent," that his estate had been settled up in New York, and that his widow renounced her right
of administration in this District.
March 9, 1880, Willard, as administrator of Dixon for the
use of Charles H. Christmas, as administrator, commenced an
action of assumpsit against Wood.
October 25, 1880, Willard was appointed in this District the
administrator also of Frederick L. Christmas, and on November 11, 1880, commenced an action of assumpsit as such administrator against Wood. Issues were joined in the last two
actions on pleas of the statute of limitations and the general
issue. The plaintiff filed to the pleas of limitation an additional replication, to the effect that the defendant by accepting the conveyance from Dixon and entering into possession
had become bound by the deed.
On July 15, 1881, Willard as administrator of Frederick L.
Christmas filed the present bill against Wood and Bryan,
seeking to charge them under their several assumptions of
the mortgage debt with a deficiency arising upon the sale
and foreclosure, averring that such deficiency had been docketed as a personal judgment against Dixon; that Wood as
grantee of Dixon had paid $4000 of the principal of the mortgage debt; that Bryan as grantee of Wood had entered into
possession and enjoyed the rents and profits; and that Wood
when he conveyed to Bryan had paid to the latter the sum of
$2000 to be applied to the reduction of the mortgage debt,
but that Bryan although agreeing to do so had failed to so
apply that sum. The subpoena was returned August 18, 1881,
served on Wood only.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

Wood answered the bill October 10, 1881, setting up, among
other things, laches and the statute of limitations, and insisting that the plaintiff as against Wood should be required to
elect between his remedy under the bill and his remedy in the
action at law, the causes of action in each of these proceedings
being claimed to be identical against Wood. On June 26,
1882, Wood filed a motion to compel the election upon which
his answer had insisted. He died Aiigust 31, 1882, and the
motion was renewed in effect October 25, 1883, by his executor and executrix. At their instance the equity cause was
placed on the calendar for final hearing, September 16, 1884,
but it was taken off the calendar on the suggestion by complainant's solicitor, as shown by a docket entry of November 12,
1884, that another suit was to be brought by complainant, and
it appears that it was because the solicitor of the personal representatives of Wood learned that the bill against Wood was to
be dismissed, that he refrained from insisting upon a hearing.
December 30, 1884, an action of covenant was brought in
the Supreme Court of the District by Willard, as administrator of Frederick L. Christmas, against Mrs. Wood, as executrix of her husband.
On January 5, 1885, counsel for Willard, administrator,
filed in the present cause the following: "And now comes
the said complainant and dismisses his said bill, so far as the
same relates to the defendant Mary L. C. Wood, executrix;
but without prejudice. The clerk will please make the entry
on the docket accordingly." 'Andon the same day the clerk
made this entry on the docket: "Dismissal of bill as to Mary
L. C. Wood' ex'x, ordered by compl't, precipe filed." On the
same day, Willard, administrator, also dismissed, without
prejudice, the three actions at law pending in the Supreme
Court of the District at the time of the filing of the bill, the
counsel for Wood's representatives being informed in advance
by the counsel of Willard, administrator, that this would be
done.
In the action of covenant brought against the executrix of
Wood, the Supreme Court of the District in general term gave
judgment for the defendant, January 17, 1887, holding that

WILLARD v. WOOD.
Statement of the Case.

the action should have been in assumpsit and was barred.
4 Mackey, 538. To review this judgment, a writ of error
from this court was sued out, and, pending its decision, the
estate of Wood was completely distributed. The judgment of
the District Supreme Court was affirmed by this court May 5,
1890. 135 U. S. 309. Meanwhile and on March 10, 1890, a
subpoena against Bryan was issued in the present suit and was
served on him on that day. April 30, 1890, Bryan answered
the bill, not admitting the right or authority 'f plaintiff as
administrator to maintain the suit against him; he denied
the right of plaintiff to compel him to pay any balance due
upon the mortgage; he set up, among other things, his continuous residence beyond the District; the service of process
on him during his appearance in the District on business;
that the transaction between him and Wood was an exchange
of equities of redemption, which the $2000 was paid to equalize, any claim in respect of which was, moreover, barred; the
defence of the bar of the statute of liimitations, existing and
pleaded in favorof Wood; the dismissal of the bill as to the
executrix of Wood; the judgment rendered in her favor by
the court in general term; the distribution made of the
estate of Wood; the non-liability of Wood and his estate and
the consequent non-liability of Bryan. July 1, 1890, a replication was filed, without leave, to the answer filed by Wood
on October 10, 1881. Wood had died August 31, 1882, and
Mrs. Wood, his executrix, had deceased as early as the middle
of March, 1887. July 31, 1890, Counsel for complainant, without leave of court, filed in the cause the following: "And now
comes the said complainant and withdraws his direction to the
clerk to dismiss the bill, so far as it relates to Mary L. O.W'ood,
executrix, filed January 5, 1885, the same having been filed
through mistake and misapprehension."
By Wood's will, Mrs. Wood was appointed executrix and
Thomas N. Wood, his son, executor, and letters testamentary
were granted to them October 27, 1882. The son, after
qualifying as executor, performed no duties as such during
the lifetime of his mother, who administered upon the estate.
In March, 1887, after his mother's decease, the son'filed as

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

executor a new appraisement and inventory and wound up
the estate.
In the action of assumpsit brought by Willard, as administrator of Frederick L. Christmas, against Wood, the clerk was
directed by plaintiff's attorney, on the suggestion of the death
of defendant, to issue summons to Mrs. Wood as executrix to
appear and defend, so in this cause a subpcena was directed
to bring in Mrs. Wood as executrix, and so in the action
brought by Willard in Wood's name for the use of Charles II.
Christmas, administrator, the death of Wood was suggested,
and on application of plaintiff's attorney the suit was revived
in the name of Mrs. Wood as executrix. The action of covenant brought by Willard, as administrator of Christmas,
against Mrs. Wood, as executrix, was conducted and tried
throughout on the theory of her exclusive representative
character; and, similarly, the dismissal of this bill, January 5,
1885,.was as to Mrs. Wood as executrix.
Willard's counsel had notice of the executorship of the son,
whose appearance as executor was entered in the present suit,
with that of his mother as executrix, October 25, 1883, but
both sides went on with the proceedings as if Mrs. Wood were
sole executrix.'
This suit was on January 12, 1892, ordered to be heard by
the Supreme Court of the District at the general term in the
first instance, but, before such hearing, became transferred
under the act of Congress of February 9, 1893, c. 74, 27 Stat.
434, to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia,
where the bill was dismissed with costs in accordance with an
opinion delivered by Mr. Chief Justice Alvey, made part of
the record and reported in 1 D. C. App. 44.
The Court of Appeals held that the bill was effectually dismissed as to the estate of Wood by the order of January 5,
1885; that the right, if any, attempted to be enforced against
the estate of Wood by reason of the assumption in favor of
Dixon was fully barred by the statute of limitations or the
lapse of time before the bringing of this suit; that plaintiff as
the representative of the mortgagee could not be substituted
to the position of Wood with the right to enforce the covenant

WILLARD v. WOOD.
Argument for Appellant.

Bryan made with and for the benefit of Wood, under the circumstances; and that the covenant
Wood, if it could be availed of at
a lawful asset of the estate of tile
which vested in the administrator
sue Bryan therefor.

of Bryan in the deed from
all, could not be deemed
deceased in this District,
here and entitled him to

-Mr.William Henry Dennis and Mtr. Enoch Totten for appellant. Mr. Stephen Condit was on their brief.
Apart from technical objections urged by the defendants,
the Court of Appeals denied relief on the grounds: (a) That
the right sought to be enforced against the estate of Wood
was barred by time, by analogy to the statute of limitations,
before this suit was brought; (b) That this suit was dismissed
as to the estate of Wood by the pracipe as to Mrs. Wood;
(6) That the remedy against Bryan was lost when the remedy
against Wood's estate was lost.
All these propositions are respectfully controverted by
complainant.
Such a theory of subrogation might be carried even further,
and the right to recover against Wood be denied, because
Dixon was discharged in bankruptcy from his debt to the
mortgagee. The answer to that, of course, is that a discharge
in bankruptcy results merely by operation of law, is an act
in invitum as regards the creditor, avails only the bankrupt
and does not discharge any other person liable for the same
debt. Bankrupt Law, Rev. Stat. § 5118. See Story on Notes,

§ 428.
(a) The estate of William W. W. Wood is liable notwithstanding the lapse of time. His bargain with Dixon to buy
the house and assume the mortgage was a New York contract and governed by the laws of New York.
"It is a principle too firmly established to admit of dispute
at this day, that to the law of the State in which land is
situated must we look for the rules which govern its descent,
alienation and transfer, and for the effect and constf uction of
conveyances." .McGoon v. Scales. 9 Wall. 23; Orvi8 v. Powell,

OCTOBER TERAI, 1896.
Argument for Appellant.

98 U. S. 16; Brine v. Ins. Co., 96 U. S. 627; Pritchardv.
.Nortn, 106 U. S. 124; Canada Southern Railway v. Gebhard, 109 U. S. 527; Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 11.
'By the law of the State of New York, a purchaier of mortgaged real estate who accepts a deed thereto, by the terms of
which he assumes, covenants and agrees to pay the mortgage
as a part of the purchase money, is liable for the amount of
the incumbrance, and his liability is precisely the same,
whether he actually signs and seals the deed or not. He is
bound by the covenants in the instrument in either case, and
an action may be maintained on the contract by the mortgagee. Trotter v. Rughes, 12 N. Y. 74; Burr v.',Beers, '24
N. -Y. 178; Thorp v. Keokuk &oal Co., 48 N. Y. 253; H1and v.
Kennedy, 83 N. Y. 149; Atlantic Dock Co. v. Leavitt, 54
-N.Y. 35; Yrooman v.Turner. 69 N. Y. 280; Bowen v. Beck,
94 N. Y. 86.
The precise question involved here was decided by the
Court of Appeals of New York in Bowen v. Beck, 94 N. Y. 86.
The purchaser who assumed the mortgage debt in that case
did not sign the deed, but accepted it and its benefits; the
deed purported, as here, to be a deed of "indenture,", and the
statute of limitations was pleaded; that statute as applicable
to simple contracts barred the action, but as applicable to a
specialty it did not. That case was in all respects undistinguishable from this, and the court held that the statute was
not a defence. If this action were pending in New York, it
would clearly be controlled by that case. See also Rqof
Appeal,
24 Penn,
St. 200.
This court,
in Willard
v. Wood, 135 U. S. 309, declined
to
decide this question, although it was argued at length at the
bar.
The Court of Appeals concedes that such is the law of New
York, and that international jurisprudence requires it to be
Tespected in this case, but undertakes to say that the liability
of Wood was not what the law of New York declares it to be,
that of a party to the deed, but only a "simple contract" on
Wood's part. It is submitted that this fails to give due effect
to the lex loci contractus. It changes the nature of the con-

WILLARD v. WOOD.
Argument for Appellant.

tract, and makes a different one. In United States Bank v.
Donnally, 8 Pet. 361, cited by the Court of Appeals, the
paper sued upon was, on itsface, a promissory note, not under
seal, and it was held that it could not be sued upon in Virginia
as if it were a sealed instrument. The case at bar is not an
action of covenant at law, but in equity upon the obligation
imposed by the law of New York. If Wood was liable. (and
it is conceded he was), he was liable as the law of New York
said he was, as if he had joined in executing the deed he accepted,- and there was no mere "simple contract."
It is quite supposable that Wood did not sign the deed
because the law of New York made that form superfluous.
There is nothing in the statute of 'limitation of the District
of Columbia which excludes or conflicts with the New York
doctrine. Section 6 of the Ma'yland act of 1715 expressly includes a recognizance, which, like the assumption of a mortgage in New York, does not need to be sealed or even signed
by the obligor.
Section 2 of the same act, on which defendants rely, provides- as follows: "All actions of trespass quare clausum
fregit, all actions of trespass, detinue, surtrover or replevin
for taking away goods or chattels, all actions of account, contract, debt, book or upon the case, other than such accounts
as concern the trade or merchandise between merchant and
merchant, their factors and servants which are not residents
within this province, all actions of debt for lending, or contract
without specialty, all actions of debt for arrearages of rent,
all actions of assault, menaces, battery, wounding and imprisonment, or any of them, shall be sued or brought by any
person or persons w.'ithin this province, at any time after the
end of this present session of assembly, shall be commenced
or suedwithin the time and limitation hereafter expressed,
and not after; that is to say, the said action of account, and
the said actions upon the case, upon simple contract, book
debt or account, and the said actions for debt, detinue and
replevin for goods and chattels, and the said actions for trespass quare clausum fregit, within three years ensuing the
cause of such action, and not after." .
voL. cLxrv--3

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellant.

Moreover, this suit does not assert a claim of Willard
directly against Wood, but, by subrogation, the claim of
Dixon, surety, against Wood, principal, for the obligation
under the mortgage. Feller v. A8hford, 133 U. S. 610, 625.
The statute does not begin to run on the surety's .claim
against his principal until the surety is compelled or compellable to pay the debt-i.e., in this case not until the sheriff's
report of sale was confirmed (April 17, 1879), or when the
deficiency was ascertained. This suit was filed in 1881.
Wood, Limitation of Actions, § 145. .Elwood v. Diqfendo7:f,
5 Barb. 410.
The court below appears to have cited no authority for declaring that, "according to the principles of the common law,
no mere agreement or assumption to pay,'by a grantee in a
deed, neither signed nor sealed by him, can be deemed or
treated as a specialty or covenant, in this District." There
appears to be no decision in Maryland prior to the cession
of this District in 1801, and no District decision prior to the
case at bar, that declares such to-be the common law in this
District. The States Wvhich have adopted the same doctrine
as that declared in New York, have adopted it as being part
of the common- law of England, and no reason is perceived
why it is not the common law in this jurisdiction. The
learned court below took an erroneous view as to the conimon law of England on this subject. Finch, Book of the
Law, 109; Staines v.- Morris, 1 Yes. & Beam. 8; Com.
Dig. Title Covenant, A 1, pl. 5, 6; Finley v. Simpson, 2
Zabriskie (22 N. J. Law), 311.
Certainly in equity there should be no technical difficulty,
arising from the "form of the action," in treating Wood as
if he had signed and sealed the indenture.
(b) The prmcipe was wholly ineffectual to dismiss the suit
as- against the estate of Wood, and was certainly subject to
the withdrawal filed by the complainant. It' referred only
to "Mary L. C. Wood, executrix," who is since deceased, and
not to Thomas N. Wood, the executor, against whom this
suit is now pending.
The dismissal of a bill in equity as to one of two executors

WILLARD v. WOOD.
Argument for Appellant.

is inoperative. Executors are joint tenants and not tenants
in common. An equity suit against one of two executors
would support a judgment or decree binding on the estate, if
no objection were made or want of parties suggested by the
defendant.
The plaintiff in an equity suit cannot effectually dismiss his
suit, especially after answer, except by means of an order of
the court. 1 Daniell, Oh. Pr. 795; Fisherv. Quick, 1 Stockton (9 N. J. Eq.), 312.
In Orphan Asylum v. Mc6artee, 1 Ifopk. Oh. 372, cited by
the court below, the dismissal was by order of court, after
argument, and the court was asked to vacate its own order.
Thomas N. Wood having duly qualified as co-executor, the
question how much actual service he performed during the life
of the co-executrix was one merely between themselves. He
did not cease at any time to be co-executor. Estate of Patten, 7 Mackey, 392; Richardson v. Stansbury,4 H. & J. 275.
(c) Whatever may be the case as to Dixon and Wood, the
defendant Bryan should be held liable in equity upon his
signed and sealed covenant.
He intentionally bought the property cum onere. If it had
risen in value above the price at which he bought it, including the mortgage he assumed, he would have reaped what
some have called "the unearned increment." As it has fallen
below the amount of debt secured upon it, he should bear the
loss. His liability is not merely technical, but founded in
equity and good conscience, and it should not be cancelled,
even if it be held that Dixon's estate or even Wood's estate
for any reason is no longer liable.
It is established and conceded that as between themselves
Bryan was principal and Wood was surety. The fact that
the right to sue the surety has been barred by the statute of
limitations, if it be a fact, should not and does not destroy
in equity the right to be subrogated to any security held by
the surety.
An apt illustration of this is afforded by Eastman v. Foster,
8 Met. (Mass.) 19, per Shaw, 0. J., where the maker of a note
had given a mortgage to his surety to secure him, and it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellant.

decided, after argument and full consideration, that the holder
of the note was entitled, by subrogation, to the benefit of the
mortgage, even though his right to sue the surety was barred
by limitation. The court said (p. 24):
"The effect of the imortgage was, in equity, to pledge the
property in the form of a hypothecation to the surety, for
the payment of the mortgagor's debt; and the pledge is not
redeemed, nor the equitable lien upon it discharged, until the
debt is paid."
In the case at bar, Bryan in the view of equity is the principal debtor, Wood is the surety, and the covenant in the
deed between Wood and Bryan is the security held by the
surety, and which is not discharged until the debt is paid.
The only effect of limitations, if any, in this case, is to take
away the remedy against Wood's estate. It does not affect
the right, and should not have any collateral effect on claims
against another. Michigan 148. Bank v. Eldred, 130 U. S.
693, 696; 0ampbell v. Ilolt, 115 U. S. 620, 625-; Sturge8 v.
Crowninshield,4 Wheat. 122.
Pomneroy's Equity Jurisp., § 1206, says that the "mortgagee
may release the mortgagor without releasing the purchaser."
In Keller -v. Ashford, 133 U. S. 610, 623, this court said:
"If the person who is admitted to be the creditor's [mortgagee's] debtor stands, at the time of receiving the 8ecurity, in
the relation of surety to the person from whom he receives it,
it is quite immaterial whether that person is or ever has been
a debtor of the principal creditor, or whether the relation of
suretyship or the indemnity to the surety existed, 'or was
known to the creditor, when the debt was contracted. In short,
if one person agrees with another to be 2rimarily liable for
a debt due from that other to a third person, so that as between the parties to the agreement the first is the principal
and the second the surety, the creditor of such surety is entitled, in equity, to be substituted in his place for the purpose
of compelling such prin6ipal-to pay the debt."
And the court quotes and adopts this language : "But the
right of the mortgagee to this remedy does not result from
any fixed or vested right in him, arising either from the ac-

WILLARD v. WOOD.
Argument for Appellant.

ceptance by the subsequent purchaser of the conveyance of
the mortgaged premises, or from the obligation of the grantee
to pay the mortgage debt as between himself and his grantor.
And it will not in any case be available to the mortgagee, unless the mortgagor was himself personally liable for
the payment of the mortgage debt."
In Keller v. Ashford, the mortgagor was not made a party
to the suit against the mortgagor's grantee, and this court said
that this omission could not prejudice .any interest of his, or
any right of either party t that suit.
The plain deduction from the language and action of this
court in that case is that the subrogation in question takes
place, in the contemplation of equity, when the grantee takes
the property, and assumes the mortgage debt, if the claim of
the mortgagee is then valid against the mortgagor. The mortgagee, having notice on the public records of the assumption
of the debt by the new owner of the property, may very well
rely upon the right which he is advised equity gives him
against such owner and elect to take him as the debtor in
equity. Why should the mortgagee then be obliged to keep
his claim alive indefinitely against the original mortgagor,
and against a chain of intermediate owners, who may be dead
or bankrupt, or in foreign parts, under penalty of being told;
if he fails to do so in regard to any one of them, "Oh, the
viinulum of obligation is broken; there is a missing link; and
you are not entitled to the benefit of subrogation." Why
should he not rather have an equitable right similar to that
of the holder of a promissory note, who can strike off intermediate endorsers and sue any particular one?
In the rapid transfer of real estate from owner to owner in
modern times, any other construction of the equitable doctrine so carefully built up by the courts would, in many
cases, reduce it to a nullity. That it is 'a salutary doctrine
in aiding to make real estate a subject of commerce, none
will deny, who consider how it tends to shift the burden
of a mortgage debt from the mortgagor to the purchaser
who assumes the mortgage, thereby accomplishing the very
object which those parties have in mind, without the ne-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

cessity of asking the consent of the mortgagee to the change
of debtor.
-Mr. Jon Sidney Webb for Wood. Mr. E. Randall Webb
and .Mr. Harri8 Lindsley were on his brief.
.Mr. ohn Selden for Bryan.
MR. CmF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The action of covenant brought by Willard against Wpod,
December 30, 1884, was heard by the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia in general term in the first instance,
and it was held that the acceptance by Wood of the deed of
Dixon to him created no specialty obligation on the part of
Wood, though he might be held liable on it in assumpsit, as
on a simple contract, and that the act of limitations of the
District barred such action because brought more than three
years after the cause of action accrued. 4 ]vMhckey, 538.
The case being brought on writ of error to this court, it
was ruled that whether an agreement by the grantee of a
mortgagor to assume the mortgage debt could be enforced
at law or in equity was governed by the law of the place
where the action was brought, and that by the law of the
District of Columbia, whether such an agreement was or was
not considered as under seal, it was an agreement made with
the grantor only, and created no direct obligation to the
mortgagee upon which the latter could sue at law. If the
agreement of the grantee was considered under seal, by reason
of the deed being sealed by the grantor, it'fell within the settled rule in force in the District of Columbia, that no 'one
could maintain an action at law on a contract under seal, to
which he was not a party; and if the agreement of the grantee
was considered as in the nature of assumpsit, implied from his
acceptance of the deed, "still, being made with the grantor
only and for his benefit, upon a consideration moving from
him alone, there being no privity of contract -between the
grantee and the mortgagee, and the latter not having known

WILLARD v. WOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

of or assented to the agreement at the time it was made, nor
having since done or omitted any act on the faith of it, it
follows that, by the law as declared by this court, and prevailing in the District of Columbia, the mortgagee cannot
maintain an action at law against the grantee. FEller x7.
A8hford, 133 U. S. 610, 620, 622; and NationalBank v. Grand
Lodge, 98 U. S. 123, there cited. . . . Moreover, if the
grantee's liability was in assumnpsit only, it was, in any view
of the case, barred by the statute of limitations in three years."'
And the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District was
accordingly affirmed. Willard v. Wood, 135 U. S.309, 314.
In Eeller v. Ashford, above referred to, it was held that
although the contract of the purchaser to pay the mortgage,
being made to the mortgagor and for his benefit only, created
no direct obligation of the purchaser to the mortgagee, yet
that in a court of equity the mortgagee may avail himself of
the right of the mortgagor against the purchaser upon the
familiar principle in equity that a creditor shall have the benefit of any obligation or security given by the principal to the
surety for the payment of the debt. And it was said: "The
doctrine of the right of a creditor to the benefit of all securities given by the principal to the surety for the payment of
the debt does not rest upon any liability of th6 principal
to the creditor, or upon any peculiar relation of the surety
towards the creditor; but upon the ground that the surety,
being the creditor's debtor, and in fact occupying the relation
of surety to another person, has received from that person an
obligation or security for the payment of the debt, which a
court of equity will therefore compel to be applied to that
purpose at the suit of the creditor. Where the person ultimately held liable is himself a debtor to the creditor, the relief
awarded has no reference to that fact, but is grounded wholly
on the right of the creditor to avail himself of the right of the
surety against the principal. If the person, who is admitted
to be the creditor's debtor stands, at the time of receiving the
security, in the relation of surety to the perspn from whom he
receives it, it is quite immaterial whether that person is or
ever has been a debtor of the principal creditor, or whether

OCTOBER TERAI, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the relation of suretyship or the indemnity to the surety existed, or was known to.the creditor, when the debt was contracted. In short, if one person agrees with another to be
.primarily liable for a debt due from that other to a third person, so that as between the parties to the agreement the first
is the principal and the second the surety, the creditor of such
surety is entitled, in equity, to be substituted in his place for
the purpose of compelling such principal to pay the debt."
133 U. S. 623.
After citing many cases and quoting from Urowell v. St.
Barnabas .ospital, 12 0. E. Green, 650, 655, the opinion continued (p. 625): "The decisions of this court, cited for the defendant, are not only quite consistent with this conclusion,
but sjrongly tend to define the true position of a mortgagee,
who has in no way acted on the faith of, or otherwise made
himself a party to, the agreement of the mortgagor's grantee
to pay the mortgage; holding, on the one hand, that such a
mortgagee has no greater right than the mortgagor has against
the grantee, and therefore cannot object to the striking out by
a court of equity, or to the release by the mortgagor, of such
an agreement when inserted in the deed by mistake; Elliott v.
'Sackett, 108 U. S. 132; -Druryv. Hayden, 111 U. S. 223; and,
on the other hand, that such an agreement does not, without
the mortgagee's assent, put the grantee and the mortgagor in
the relation of principal and surety towards the mortgagee, so
that the latter, by giving time to the grantee, will discharge
the mortgagor. Skepkerd v. -May, 115 U. S. 505, 511." *
The Court of Appeals rightly held that remedies are determined by the law of the forum; that Wood's liability by reason
of his acceptance of Dixon's deed was subject to the limitation
prescribed as to simple contracts; and was barred by the application in equity, by analogy, of the bar of the statute at law.
We also concur with the Court of Appeals that the bill was
effectually dismissed as against the estate of Wood on the 5th
of January, 1885. That court held that there could be no
doubt that it was the intention of plaintiff by the order of
that date to dismiss the bill as to the representatives of Wood's
estate, and that it was supposed at the time to have been

WILLARD v. WOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

effectually done; that this dismissal was a concession to the
demand of Wood that plaintiff should elect as between his
action at law then pending against the representatives and
the bill in equity; that it could not be urged that the defendant or his representative might object to the dismissal; and
that after a voluntary dismissal of the bill by plaintiff he
would not be allowed to reinstate it unless it was shown that
there was surprise or mistake. It was further held that though
the order of dismissal referred alone to Mr. Wood, she was the
only active representative of the estate, and that the fair construction of the order of dismissal would not permit of the contention that the bill was still intentionally retained as against
the co-executor, the son; and that indeed, being dismissed voluntarily as against the active representative, it was left fatally
defective, even though technically still pending against the son.
The proceedings show that Mrs. Wood was regarded as the
sole representative, she only having administered; and the
attempts by filing a replication July 1, 1890, without leave
of court, to the answer filed by Wood, who had then been
dead nearly eight years, and by filing a paper signifying the
withdrawal of the direction to dismiss the bill, July 31, 1890,
also without leave of. court, were unavailing in the premises.
But it is insisted that, conceding the remedy as to Wood
was barred, it does not follow that Bryan was entitled to avail
himself of that bar, since the right was not extinguished; that
Bryan joined in the execution of the deed of Wood, and
thereby expressly agreed to pay the balance due on the mortgage; that this was an absolute promise to pay and not merely
a contract of indemnity; and that it could be proceeded on
as a specialty irrespective of whether the remedy on Wood's
contract with Dixon was barred in the District or not.
It is not denied that the enforcement of the contract was open
to all defences existing between Wood and Bryan. Episcopal
City .Mimi= v. Brown, 158 U. S. 222. Christmas had not
been deprived by either of them of any security he ever had;
there was no mutual agreement between him and them; and he
had in no way acted on the faith of the agreement between
them in such a way as to bind either of them by estoppel.

OCTOBER TERI, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The sixth section of chapter 23 of the act of 1715 of the State
of Maryland, and which is in force in this District, is as follows:
"No bill, bond, judgment, recognizance, statute merchant,
or of the staple, or other specialty whatsoever, except such as
shall be taken in the name or for the use of our sovereign lord
the king, his heirs and successors, shaiLbe good and pleadable,
or admitted in evidence against any person or persons of this
province, after the principal debtor and creditor have been
both dead twelve years, or the debt or thing in action above
twelve years' standing; saving to all persons that shall be
under the aforementioned impediments of 'infancy, coverture,
insanity of mind, imprisonment, or being beyond the sea, the
full benefit of all such bills, bonds, judgments, recognizances,
statutes merchant, or of the staple, or other specialties, for
the space of five years after such impediment removed, anything in this act before mentioned to the contrary notwithstanding." 1 Kilty's Laws of Maryland.
This section was peculiar to the State of Maryland, and in
effect went to the cause of action. In some aspects it has
often received the consideration of the courts of that State.
Some of the decisions are referred to by Chief Justice Alvey
inMann v. McDonald, 22 Wash. Law Rep. 98, and it is there
said: "Unlike the construction that has been placed upon the
terms of the statute employed in the second section, in regard
to simple contract debts, the construction uniformly placed on
the terms employed in the sixth section in regard to judgments, recognizances and specialties of various kinds, owing
to the peculiar force and prohibitory nature of the language
employed in this latter section, has been different, and unyielding to circumstances that would remove the bar of the
statute as applied to simple contract debts; hence it has been
uniformly held that a mere acknowledgment of the debt due
on judgment, or even-an express promise to pay the same,
will not arrest the running of the statute, or remove the bar,
as against the judgment or specialty mentioned in the act;
though such judgment or specialty may form the basis or inducement to a new express promise to pay, upon which an
action may be maintained. Lamarv. Munro, 10 G. & J. 50;

WILLARD v. WOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

Young v. Mackall, 4 Maryland, 367. And so the payment of
interest, or even part of the principal of the judgment debt
will not have the effect of avoiding the operation of the statute
as applied to proceedings on the judgment to revive, or to
recover on the judgment by action of debt. In the case of
Carroll v. Waring, 3 G. & J. 491, it was held that the payment of interest upon a bond was no avoidance of the bar of
the act of limitations of 1715, c. 23; nor would even an express acknowledgment of the debt revive the remedy upon
a bond barred by that act." And see Digges v. Eliason,4
Cranch 0. 0. 619; Thompson v. Beveridge, 3 Mackey, 170;
Galt v. Todd, 23 Wash. Law Rep. 98.
The saving clause of the section relates to creditors only,
and by section 466 of the Revised Statutes of the District all
exceptions in favor of parties beyond the District were repealed. However, as this sixth section of the act of 1715 was
not pleaded we need not consider whether its benefits are
denied to non-resident debtors by the fourth and fifth sections
relating to "persons absenting the province, or wandering
from county to county," or by the act of November, 1765, c.
12, as to persons who "may be absent out of this province, at
the time when the cause of action hath arisen or accrued,"
Kilty's Laws; Hy'inger v. Baltzell, 3 G. & J. 158; Maurice v.
VJorden, 52 Maryland, 283; or other statutory provision.
But it is well to observe that this covenant was entered into
in the District between residents thereof, and, although its
performance was required elsewhere, the liability for non-performance was governed by the law of the obligee's domicil,
operating to bar the obligation, unless suspended by the absence
of the obligor.
The general rule in respect of limitations must also be borne
in mind, that if a plaintiff mistakes his remedy, in the absence
of any statutory provision saving his rights, or where from
any cause a plaintiff becomes nonsuit or the action abates or
is dismissed, and, during the pendency of the action, the limitation runs, the remedy is barred. Alexander v. Pendleton, 8
Oranch, 462, 470; Young v. Mackall, 4 Maryland, 367; Wood
on Limitations, § 293, and cases cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

In his answer Bryan relied on Wood's answer, which set up
laches and the statute of limitations. But the recognized doctrine of courts of equity to withhold relief from those who
have delayed the assertion of their claims for an unreasonable
length of time may be applied in the discretion of the court,
even though the laches are not pleaded or the bill demurred
to. Sullivan v. Portland & Kennebec lailroad,94 U. S. 806,
811; Lansdale v. SSnith, 106 U. S. 391, 394; Badger v. Badger,
2 Wall 87, 95; Syester v. Brewer, 27 Maryland, 288, 319;
Wfilliam8 v. Rhodes, 81 Illinois, 571.
The deed of Wood to Bryan was executed March 14, 1874,
and at that time the mortgage bond was overdue, having
matured, according to its terms, July 7, 1873, but interest up
to February 1, 1874, had been paid on it by Wood. Bryan's
obligation to Wood was to pay forthwith, or within a reasonable time, a distinction of no importance here, and lapse
of time and changes in condition began immediately to affect it.
Frederick L. Christmas, the owner of the bond, was then
living He accepted interest for two years thereafter, but
this was not paid by either Wood or Bryan, and if such payment operated as an extension of time, it does not appear to
have been with the assent of either of them.
Bryan sold within a few days of his purchase, and conveyed
to Palmer, the deed being recorded in Kings County, April 9,
1874, and Palmer covenanted to pay the outstanding balance.
To the foreclosure proceedings Christmas did not make -Wood
and Bryan parties, or either of them, but made Palmer a defendafit, though asking a deficiency decree against Dixon only.
Wood gave seventeen thousand dollars for the property,
but its value had been gradually declining, and it was bid in
December 10, 1877, at the foreclosure sale by the heirs of
Christmas for $5000, the testimony showing that eight. thousand dollars was then a fair price.
Palmer died in 1878 or 1879, being reputed to have parted
with "most of his estate."
The various law suits which bad been previously commenced,
except the action of covenant of December 30, 1884:, against'

WILLARD v. WOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

Wood's executrix, were abandoled and dismissed January 5,
1885, on which day this bill was also dismissed, as we have seen.
The bill was filed July 15, 1881, against Wood and Bryan, as
alike liable to Christmas as principal debtors, and service of process was had on Wood only, August 18, 1881. The mere fact
that the bill was left on the files would not, in itself, relieve
from the effects of laches, for failure in diligent prosecution may
have the same consequences as if no suit has been instituted.
Johnton v. Standard Mining Co., 148 U. S. 360, 370.
Nearly sixteen years had elapsed since Bryan entered into
the covenant with Wood, when, on March 10, 1890, over
eight years after the issue of the first subpcena, alias process
was issued against Bryan and service had. For seven years
of this period he had resided in the District. For seven years
he had been a citizen of Illinois as he still remained. By the
law of Illinois the mortgagee may sue at law a grantee, who,
by the terms of an absolute conveyance from the mortgagor,
assumes the payment of the mortgage debt. Dean v. Walker,
107 Illinois, 540, 54:5, 550; Thompson v. Dearborn,107 Illinois,
87, 92; Day v. Williams, 112 Illinois, 91; Union Life Insu.ance Co. v. Hanford,143 U. S. 187, 190. But Christmas did not
see fit to bring a suit against Bryan in Illinois, nor was this bill
filed during Bryan's residence in the District, and when filed it
was allowed to sleep for years without issue of process to Bryan,
and for five years after it had been dismissed as to Wood's
representatives, Wood having been made defendant, by Christmas' ancillary administrator, as a necessary party.
In the meantime Dixon had been discharged in bankruptcy
and had died; Palmer had also departed this life, leaving but
little if any estate; Wood had deceased, his estate been distributed, and any claim against him had been barred; and
the mortgaged property had diminished in value one half and
had passed into the ownership of Christmas' heirs. In view
of the laches disclosed by this record, we do not think the
equitable jurisdiction of the court ought to be extended to
enforce.a covenant plainly not made for the benefit of Christmas, and in respect of which lie possessed no superior equities.
The changes which the lapse of time had wrought in the value

OCTOBER TERI, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

of the property and in the situation of the parties were such
as to render it inequitable to decree the relief sought as against
Bryan. So that. whether the barring in this jurisdiction of
the remedy merely as against Wood would or would not in
itself defeat a decree against Bryan, without more, we hold
that relief was properly refused, and the decree is
Aflirmed.

UNITED STATES v. OREGON AND CALIFORNIA
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 818. Argued November12, 1896. -Decided

December 14, 1896.

The grant of public land made to the Oregon Central Railroad Company by
the act of May 4, 1870, c. 69, 16 Stat. 94, "for the purpose of aiding in the
construction of a railroad and telegraph line from Portland to Astoria and
from a suitable point of junction near Forest Grove to the Yamhill River
near McMinnville in the State of Oregon" contemplated a main line from
Portland to Astoria opening up to settlement unoccupied and inaccessible territory and establishing railroad communication between- the two
termini, and also the construction of a branch road from Forrestville
to McMinnville, twenty-one miles in length, running through the heart
of the Willamette Valley, and it devoted the lands north of the junction,
not absorbed by the road from Portland to that point, to the building of
the road to the north.
The construction of the branch road, though included in the act, was subordinate and subsidiary, and this court cannot assume that if the promoters had sought aid merely for the subordinate -road, their application
would have been granted.
The facts that the act of 1870 grants land for the purpose of aiding in the
construction of a railroad-in the singular number-and that the act
of January 31, 1885, c. 46, 23 Stat. 296, does the same, do not affect these
conclusions.

THIS was a bill brought by the United States against the Oregon Central Railroad Company and the Oregon and California
Railroad Company, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for ihe District of -Oregon, to quiet title to about ninety thousand acres of land in the State of Oregon; and a cross bill filed
by the defendants to quiet title to the same land in the Oregon

