OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

There are other questions in this case, such as the significance of an "expired filing" the omission in the Northern
Pacific land grant of the word " attarh ed" in respect to preemption claims which seems to have been deemed by this court
sigiificant in the constrdction of the Union Pacific and other
land grants, the question whether, after the filing of the map
of. general route on February 21, 1872, any rights of preemption or homestead could be acquired in this land, and also
whether, as plaintiff had not been disturbed in his possession and 'made his payjments with notice of all the facts, he
must not be held to have made such payments voluntarily or
only under a mistake of law, and so be precluded from recovering. But as none of these matters were considered by the Supreme Court of the State, and are not noticed by counsel for
defendant in error, we deem it unwise to make any observations
thereon, leaving them for consideration in the future progress
of the case.
-For the reasons above indicated, because the decision of the
land department was only on matters of fact and did not conclude the law of the cas6, and because such facts so found
were not of themselves sufficient to disturb the title of the
railroad company, the judgment is
Reversed and the case remanded to the Supreme Court of the
State for further proceedlngs not inconsistent with this
olvinion.
ACERS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR T E
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 893.

Submitted October 22, 1896. -Decided

November 80, 1896.

The exceptions to this charge are taken in the careless way which prevails
in the Western District of Arkansas.
In a trial for assault with intent to kill, a charge which distinguishes
between the assault and the intent to kill, and charges, specifically that
each mu'st be proved, that the intent can only be found from the circumstances of the transaction, pointing out things which tend to disclose
the real intent, is not objectionable.

ACERS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
There is no error in defining a deadly weapon to be "1a weapon with which
death may be easily and readily produced; anything, no matter what it
Is, whether it is made for the purpose of destroying animal life, or
whether it was not made by man at all, or whether it was made by him
for some other purpose, if it is a weapon, or if it is a thing by which
death can be easily and readily produced, the law recognizes it as a
deadly weapon."
With reference to the matter of justifying injury done in self-defence by
reason of the presence of danger, a charge which says that it must be a
present danger, "of great injury to the person injured, that would maim
him, or that would be permanent in its character, or that might produce
death," is not an incorrect statement.
The same may be said of the instructions in reference to self-defence based
on an apparent danger.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. A. Ht. Garland and .Mr. 1?. C. Garland for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. A88i8tant Attorney General Dickinso
in error.

for defendants

MR. JusTiCE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff in error was convicted, in the District Court for the
Western District of Arkansas of an assault with intent to kill,
and sentenced to the penitentiary for the term of two years
and six months. The undisputed facts were these: Defendant and one Joseph M. Owens had some dispute about business
affairs, and while returning together to the house where they
were both stopping, defendant picked up a stone about three
inches wide, nine inches long and an inch and a half or two
inches thick, and with it struck Owens on the side of the
head, fracturing the skull. The defence was that there was
no intent to kill; that defendant acted in self-defence; that,
believing Owens was about to draw a pistol, he picked up the
stone and pushed him down; and the disputed matters were
whether Owens had a pistol, and if so, whether he attempted
to draw it, or made any motions suggestive of such a purpose.
The verdict of the jury was adverse to the contentions of the
defendant.

OCTOBER TERMYf, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The only questions presented for our consideration arise on
the charge of the court, and may be grouped under four
heads: First, as to the evidences of intent; second, as to what
constitutes a deadly weapon; third, as to real danger; and,
fourth, as to apparent danger. It may be premised that the
exceptions to this charge are taken in the careless way which
prevails in the Western District of Arkansas; but passing this
and considering the charge as properly excepted to we find
in it no substantial error.
First. With reference to the charge as to the matter of
intent, counsel for plaintiff in error challenge a single sentence, as follows: "But you need not go to a thing of that
kind, because the law says you may take the act itself as
done, and from it you may find that it was wilfully done."
But this sentence is to be taken, not by itself alone, but in
connection with many others, in order to determine what the
court instructed as to the evidences of intent. It distinguished between the assault and the intent to kill, and charged
specifically that each must be proved, that the intent could
only be found from the circumstances of the transaction, and,
after suggesting that the declarations made by a party at the
time of an assault would tend to show the intent with which it
was committed, added the sentence which counsel have quoted.
Nowhere, not even in the sentence quoted, was it said that
the assault of itself necessarily proved the intent, but all
through the charge in this respect'was the constant declaration that the intent was to be deduced from all the circumstances of the case, the court pointing out many things which
tended to disclose the real intent of a party, summing up the
matter with these observations: "That is the way you find
intent, then, bearing in mind that he is held to have intended
whatever consequences might have followed from the act as
wilfully done by him with the deadly weapon. You, in other
words, to find intent, take the circumstances; you take the
character of the act done, the manner in which it was
executed, the weapon used in executing it, the part of the
body upon which it was executed, the very result produced
by that act upon that vital part of the body known as the

ACERS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

head. These are all circumstances that it is your duty to
take into consideration to find whether the party intended to
kill him or not." There is nothing objectionable in this.
Second. With respect to a deadly weapon, the court defined
it as "a weapon with which death may be easily and readily
produced; anything, no matter what it is, whether it is made
for the purpose of destroying animal life, or whether it was
not made by man at all, or whether it was made by him for
some other purpose, if it is a weapon, or if it is a thing with
which death can be easily and readily produced, the law recognizes it as a deadly weapon." We see nothing in this definition to which any reasonable exception can be taken. Nor
do we find anything in the subsequent language of the court
which in any manner qualifies this definition, or can be construed as an instruction to the jury that as-matter of law the
stone actually used was a deadly weapon. It is true reference
was made to the manner in which the stone was used and the
part of the body upon which the blow was struck as considerations to aid the jury in determining whether it was properly
to be considered a deadly weapon. We have so little doubt
that when one uses a stone of such size and strikes a blow on
the skull so severe as to fracture it, a-jury ought to find that
the stone was a deadly weapon, that if the court had expressed
a definite opinion to that effect we should have been reluctant
on that account alone to have disturbed the judgment. But
the court did not so express itself, and in calling attention to
the manner of its use and the part of the body upon which the
blow was struck it only properly called the attention of the
jury to circumstances fairly to be considered in determining
the character of the weapon. United States v. Small, 2 Curtis,
241, 243; Oommonwealth v. Duncan. 91 Kentucky, 592; State
v. Davis, 14 Nevada, 407, 413; People v. Irving, 95 N. Y. 541,
546; flunt v. State, 6 Tex. App. 663; 2feltom v. State, 30 Tex.
App. 273; Jenkins v. State, 30 Tex. App. 379.
Third. With reference to the matter of self-defence by
reason of the presence of a real danger, the court charged that
it could not be a past danger, or a danger of a future injury,
but a present danger and a danger of "great injury to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

person injured that would maim him, or that would be permanent in its character, or that might produce death." In
this we think nothing was stated incorrectly, and that there
was a fair definition of what is necessary to constitute selfdefence by reason of the existence of a real danger.
Neither, fourthly, do we find anything to condemn in the
instructions in reference to self-defence based on an apparent
danger. Several approved authorities are quoted from in
which the doctrine is correctly stated that it is not sufficient
that the defendant claims that he believed he was in danger,
but that it is essential that there were reasonable grounds for
such belief, and then the rule was summed up in this way:
"Now, these cases are along the same line, and they are
without limit, going to show that, as far as this proposition
of apparent danger is concerned, to rest upon a foundation
upon which a conclusion that is reasonable can be erected
there must be some overt act being done by the party which
from its character, from its nature, would give a reasonable
.man, situated as was the defendant, the ground to believereasonable ground to believe -that there was danger to his
life or of deadly violence to his person, and unless that condition existed then there is no ground upon which this proposition can stand; there is nothing to which the doctrine of
apparent danger could apply."
Counsel criticise the use of the words "deadly violence," as
though the court meant thereby to limit the defence to such
cases as showed an intention on the part of the person assaulted
to take the life of the defendant, but obviously that is not a
fair construction of the language, not only because danger to
life is expressly named, but also because in other parts of the
charge it had indicated that what was meant by those words
was simply great violence. This is obvious from this language, found a little preceding the quotation: "'When from
the nature of the attack.' You look at the act being done,
and you from that draw an inference as to whether there was
reasonable ground to believe that there was a design upon the
part of Owens in this case to destroy the life of the defendant
Acers or to commit any great violence upon his person at the

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v. LAIRD.

393

Syllabus.

time he was struck by the rock. ' When from the nature of
the attack.' That implies not that he can act upon a state of
case where there is a bare conception of fear, but that there
must exist that which is either really or apparently an act
of violence, and from that the inference may reasonably be
drawn that there was deadly danger hanging over Acers, in
this case, at that time."
These are all the matters complained of. We see no error
in the rulings of the court, and, therefore, the judgment is
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS

4Armd.

dissented.

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
v. LAIRD.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 64. Submitted October 2T, 1896.-Decided November 30, 1896.

The complaint In this case charged that the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6
Company and the plaintiff in error, corporations of the State of Massachusetts, were, at the time of the injury complained of, jointly operating
a railroad; that the defendant was travelling upon it with a first class
ticket; and that by reason of negligence of the defendants an accident
took place which caused the injuries to the plaintiff for which recovery
was sought. The answers denied joint negligence, or joint operation of
the road, and admitted that the plaintiff in error was operating it at the
time. A trial resulted in a verdict in favor of the Atchison Company and
against the plaibtiff in error. On the trial the complaint was amended by
substituting "second class" for "1first class" ticket, and that the charters were by acts of Congress, and to the complaint so amended the
statute of limitations was pleaded. A judgment on the verdict was set
aside and an amended complaint was filed in which the plaintiff in error
was charged to have done the negligent acts complained of, and recovery
was sought against it. A second trial resulted in a verdict against the
company. Held,
(1) That the action was ez delicto ; that the defendants might have been
sued either separately or jointly; that recoirery might have been
had, if proof warranted against a single party; and that the amend-

