ROGERS LOCOMOTIVE WORKS -0.EMIGRANT CO.

559

Syllabus.

THE ROGERS LOCOMOTIVE MACHINE WORKS .
AMERICAN EMIGRANT COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COUr.T OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 23.

Argued March 24, 1896. -Decided

December 7, 1896.

In a suit by the American Emigrant Company to obtain a decree quieting its
title to certain lands in Calhoun County, Iowa, of which the defendants
have possession, the plaintiff asserted title under the act of Congress
known as the Swamp Land act of 1850, 9 Stat. 519, c. 84; the defendants
under the act of Congress of May 15,1856, 11 Stat. 9, c. 28, granting land
to Iowa to aid in the construction of railroads in that State, including
one from Dubuque to Sioux City. The principal contention of the
plaintiff was that the lands passed to the State under the act of 1850,
and were not embraced by the railroad act of 1856. By an act passed
January 13, 1853, the State of Iowa granted to the counties respectively
in which the same were situated the swamp and overflowed lands granted
to the State by the Swamp Land act of 1850. Congress, by an act approved May 15, 1856, granted lands to Iowa to aid in the construction of
certain railroads in that State, among others a railroad from Dubuque to
Sioux City. That act excepted from its operation all lands previously
reserved to the United States by any act of Congress, or in any other
manner, for any purpose whatsoever.
The lands, interests, rights,
powers and privileges granted by the last-named act, so far as they related to the proposed road from Dubuque to Sioux City, were transferred
by the State in 1856 to the Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Company. In
the same year, the county court of Calhoun County, Iowa, appointed an
agent to select and certify the swamp lands in that county, in accordance
with the above act of 1853. The lands in controversy are within the
limits of the railroad grant of May 15, 1856, and were earned by the
building of the road from Dubuque to Sioux City, if they were subject
at all to that grant. The several defendants hold by sufficient conveyance all the title and interest which passed under the railroad grant, if
any title or interest thereby passed. Under date of December 25, 1858,
these with other lands were certified to the State by the General Land
Office of the United States as lands within the place limits defined by the
railroad act of 1856 of the Dubuque and Pacific Railroad. A list of the
tracts so certified to the State was approved by the Secretary of the Interior, subject to the conditions of the act of 1856 and to any valid interfering rights existing in any of the tracts embraced in the list. The selection
of these lands as swamp lands by the agent of Calhoun County was reported
to the county court of that county September 30, 1858. March 27; 1860, the
surveyor general for the State certified these lands as swamp and overflowed lands, and this certificate was received in the General Land Office

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.
March 27, 1860, and at the local land office at Des Moines, Iowa, February
18, 1874. It did not appear that the Secretary of the Interior ever took
any action in respect to the lists made by the agent of Calhoun County
of lands selected by him as swamp lands, nor that the State or the
county, or any one claiming under the county, ever directly sought any
action by the General Land Office or by the Secretary of the Interior in
respect to such selection. December 12, 1861, a written contract was
made between the county of Calhoun, Iowa, and the American Emigrant
Company in relation to the swamp and overflowed lands in that county.
Subsequently, in 1863, the county, although no patent had ever been
issued to the State, conveyed to that company the lands in controversy.
Held,
(1) That the Secretary of the Interior had no authority to certify lands
under the railroad act of 1856 which had been previously-granted
to the State by the Swamp Land act of 1850;
(2) That whether the lands in controversy were swamp and overflowed
lands within the meaning of the act of 1-850 was to be determined,
in the first instance, by the Secretary of the Interior; and that
when he identified lands as embraced by that act, and not before,
the State was entitled to a patent, and on such patent the fee
simple title vested in the State, and what was before an inchoate
title then became perfect as of the date of the act;
(3) That when the Secretary of the Interior certified in 1858 that the
lands in controversy inured to the State under the railroad act of
1856, he, in effect, decided that they were not embraced by the
Swamp Land act of 1850; that it was open to the State, before accepting the lands under the railroad act, to insist that they passed
under the act of 1850 as swamp and overflowed lands; that if the
State considered the lands to be covered by the Swamp Land act,
its duty was to surrender the certificate issued to it under the railroad act; and that it could not take them under one act, and,
while holding them under that act, pass to one of its counties
the right to assert an interest in them under another and different
act ;
(4) That the county of Calhoun, being a mere political division of the
State, could have no will contrary to the will of the State; that
its relation to the State is such that the action of the latter in 1858
in accepting the lands under the railroad act was binding upon it
as one of the governmental agencies of the State; that the county
could not, after such acceptance, claim these lands as swamp and
overflowed lands, or, by assuming to dispose of them as lands of
that character, pass to the purchaser the right to raise a question
which it was itself estopped from raising; that the Emigrant Company could not, by any agreement made with the county In 1861
or afterwards, acquire any greater rights or better position In respect to these lands than the county itself bad after the certification of them to the State in 1858 as lands inuring under the railroad

ROGERS LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v. EMIGRANT 00.

561

Statement of the Case.
act of 1856; and that the plaintiff claiming under the county and
State was concluded by the act of the State in accepting and retaining the lands under that statute.

THE present suit was brought by the American Emigrant
Company for the purpose of obtaining a decree quieting its
title to certain lands in Calhoun County, Iowa. The plaintiff
asserts title under the act of Congress known as the Swamp
Laud act of September 28, 1850, c. 84, 9 Stat. 519; the defendants, under the act of Congress of May 15, 1856, 11 Stat.
9, c. 28, granting land to Iowa in aid of the construction of
various railroads in that State, among others a railroad from
Dubuque to Sioux City with a branch from the mouth of Tote
des Mforts to the nearest point on that road.
The principal contention of the plaintiff is that the lands
passed to the State under the act of 1850, and were not embraced by the railroad act of 1856.
A decree was passed adjudging the plaintiff to be the owner
of some of the tracts described in its petition. As to other
tracts the suit was dismissed. Upon appeal by the defendants
to the Supreme Court of Iowa the decree was affirmed. 83
Iowa, 612. The present writ of error brings that decree before
us for examination.
By the above act of September 28, 1850, all swamp and
overflowed lands made unfit thereby for cultivation were
granted to the respective States in which they were situated
that they might be reclaimed by the construction of the necessary levees and drains. By the second section of that act it
was made the duty of the' Secretary of the Interior, as soon
as practicable after the passage of the act, to make out an
accurate list and plats of such lands, and transmit the same to
the Governor of the State, and at the request of the latter,
"cause a patent to be issued to the State therefor; and on
that patent, the fee simple to said lands shall vest ini the said
State" -the proceeds of the lands, whether from sale or by
direct appropriation in kind, to be applied, exclusively, as far
as necessary, to the purpose of reclaiming the lands by means
of the levees and drains. By the third section it was provided
that "in making out a list and plats of the land aforesaid, all
vOL. CLxIV-36

OCTOBER TERH, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

legal subdivisions, the greater part of which is ' wet and unfit
for cultivation,' shall be included in said list and plats; but
when the greater part of a subdivision is not of that character,
the whole of it should be excluded therefrom." 9 Stat. 519.
The legislature of Iowa, by an act passed February 5, 1851,
authorized the commissioner of the state land office to take
steps necessary to secure to the State the lands granted by
the above act. To that end, the commissioner, having reason
to believe there were any tracts of swamp land within the
State not reported as such by the United States surveyor,
sufficient to justify a more particular examination, was to
direct the county surveyor of any county in which the lands
were located "to make the examination and provide the .proofs
necessary to secure such lands to the State, a list of which
shall be returned to the land commissioner or the authority
acting in that capacity, verified by affidavit," etc. Laws of
Iowa, 1850, 1851, p. 169, c. 69.
By a subsequent statute of Iowa, passed January 13, 1853,
the swamp and overflowed lands granted to the State by the
act of 1850 were granted "to the counties respectively in
which the same may lie, or be situated, for the purpose of
constructing the necessary levees and drains, to reclaim the
same-and the balance of said lands, if any there be after
the same are reclaimed as aforesaid, shall be applied to the
building of roads and bridges, when necessary, through or
across said lands, and if not needed for this purpose, to be
expended in building roads and bridges within the county."
The same act provided that "whenever it shall appear that
any of the lands granted to the State by the aforesaid act of
Congress, shall have been sold by the United States since the
passage of that act, it shall be lawful for the said counties
to convey said lands to the purchasers thereof." It also provided that in all the counties where the county surveyor had
made no examination and report of the swamp lands within
his county, in compliance with the instructions from the governor, the county court should appoint some competent person, who should proceed "to examine said lands, and make
due report, and plats, upon which the topography of the

ROGERS LOCOM1OTIVE WORKS v. EMIGRANgT CO.

563

Statement of. the Case.

country shall be carefully noted, and the places where drains
or'levees ought to be made, marked on the said plats, to the
county courts respectively, which courts shall transmit to the
proper officers, lists of all said swamp lands in each *ofthe counties in order to procure the proper recognition of the same, on
the part of the United States, which lists, after, an acknowledgment of the same by the General Government, shall be
recorded in a well-bound book provided for that purpose, and
filed among the records of the county court." Laws of Iowa,
1852, p. 29, c. 12.
By an act passed January 25, 1855, the governor of Iowa
was authorized and empowered to draw from the Treasury of
the United States all moneys arising from the disposition of
the swamp lands of Iowa by the government of the United
States. The same act provided: " 3 That the Governor is
hereby authorized to adopt such measures as to him may.seem
expedient, to provide for the selection of the swamp lands of
this State, and to secure to the State the title to the same, and
also for the selection in the name of the State, [of] other lands,
in lieu of such swamp lands as may have been or may hereafter
be entered with warraTnts: Provided,That the provisions of
this act shall not be construed to apply to any swamp lands
which have already been selected by any organized county of
this State under the provisions of any previous law: Ancdprovidedfurt er, That this act shall not be construed to impair
the rights of the counties of this State to any swamp lands
within said counties under the provisions of any law in force
in relation to the same, and that the selections made by the
organized counties shall be reported by the Governor to the
authorities at Washington." Laws of Iowa, 1851-1856, p.
261, c. 138; Iowa Revision, 1860, p. 154, c. 47, art. 4.
By another act also passed January 25, 1855, amendatory
of the act of January 13, 1853, it was provided : "§ 1. That
no swamp or overflowed lands granted to the State, and
situate in the. present unorganized counties, shall be sold or
disposed of till the title to said lands shall be perfected in the
State, whereupon the titles to said lands-shall be transferred
to the said counties where they are situated: Provided,That

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

said counties shall refund to the State the expenses incurred
in selecting said lands, -under the provisions of an act of the
General Assembly, authorizing the Governor to cause said
lands to be surveyed and selected, with ten per cent interest
thereon. Each county to refund its proportional amount of
said expenses." Laws of Iowa, 1854-1856, p. 173, c. 110;
Iowa Revision, 1860, p. 154, c. 47, art. 5.
It appears that in 1,56 the county court of Calhoun County
appointed Charles Amy to select and survey the swamp lands
in that county, in accordance with the provisions of the above
act of January 13, 1853.
This was after the passage by Congress of the railroad act
of May 15, 1856, granting lands to the State of Iowa to aid
in the construction of certain railroads in that State. 11 Stat.
p. 9, c. 28. By that act there was granted to Iowa, to aid in
the construction of railroads, among them a railroad from
Dubuque to Sioux City, with a branch, every alternatb section
of land, designated by odd numbers, for six sections in width
on each side of the respective roads named by Congress. If
it appeared at the time the route of a road was definitely fixed
that the United States had sold any 6f the sections or parts
of sections granted, or that the right of preemption had attached to the same, then the State, "subject to the approval
of the Secretary of the Interior," was entitled to select other
lands nearest to the sections granted to supply the deficiency.
But, it was declared, "That any and all lands heretofore reserved to the United States, by any act of Congress, or in any
other manner by competent authority, for the purpose of aiding in any object of internal improvement, or for any other
purpose whatsoever, be, and the same are hereby, reserved to
the United States from the operation of this act, except so far
as it may be found necessary to locate the routes of said railroads through such reserved lands, in which case the right of
way only shall be granted, subject to the approval of the
President of the United States."
The above act of May 15, 1856, with its provisions and restrictions, was accepted by the State by an act approved July
14, 1856, and the lands, interests, rights, powers and privileges

ROGERS LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v. EMIGRANT CO.

565

Statement of the Case.

granted by Congress, so far as they related to the proposed
road from Dubuque to Sioux City, were granted and tranSferred to the Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Company, to aid
in the construction of its railroad and branch, subject to the
conditionsand incumbrances prescribed by Congress. These
lands were transferred to the railroad company upon the express condition that, if it did not complete and equip a given
number of miles of its road within a named time, and its entire line, on or before such certain date, then the State might
resume all rights to the lands so granted and remaining undisposed of by the company. Iowa Revision, 1860, p. 215, o. 55,
art. 2.
By a supplementary act, passed January 28, 1857, the companies obtaining the benefits of the act of Congress of. 1856,
and of the act of the Iowa legislature of July 14, 1856, were
authorized to make such disposition, by mortgage or deed of
trust, of the lands granted by the act of 1855, as might be
deemed proper to secure construction bonds necessary for the
completion of their roads; such mortgage or deed of trust to
be a binding and valid lien upon all the property mentioned
therein, including rolling stock, and the purchasers, under a
trustee's sale or foreclosure of mortgage, to have and enjoy
all the rights of a purchaser on execution sale. Iowa IRevision, 1860, p. 222, c. 55, art. 5.
It was stipulated by the parties that the lands in controversy
"are within the limits of the railroad grant of May 15, 1856,
to aid in building a railroad from Dubuque to Sioux City, and
were earned by the building of said road if they were subject
to said grant; and that the various defendants hold by apt
and sufficient conveyance all the title and interest in said lands
which passed under and-by said grant, if any title or interest
did pass" thereunder or thereby." This, of course, implies
that the railroad company performed all the conditions prescribed, in reference to these lands, either by the act of Congress of May 1.5, 1856, or by the acts of the Iowa legislature.
It appears in evidence that the lands in controversy and
Qther lands were certified to the State by the General Land
Office of the United States, under date of December 25, 1858,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

as lands within the six-mile or place limits defined by the act of
Congress of May 15, 1856, "being the vacant and unappropriated lands in the alternate sections designated by odd numbers,
for six sections in width on each side of the Dubuque and
Pacific :Railroad and branch within the State of Iowa." The
lists of those tracts were first submitted by the Commissioner of
the General Land Office "for the approval of the Secretary
of the Interior, in accordance with the requirements of the
said act of May 15, 1856, subject to all its conditions and to
any valid interfering rights which may exist to any of the
tracts embraced in the foregoing list." The certificate of
December 25, 1858, was endorsed by the Secretary of the
interior, "Approved, subject to the conditions and rights
above mentioned."
It was further stipulated, in this case, that "all of the lands
in controversy were selected by duly authorized and appointed
agents of Calhoun County as swamp lands under the act of
Congress, September 28, 1850, and reported the same to the
county court of Calhoun County September 30, 1858."
On the 27th of March, 1860, the surveyor general for the
State of Iowa certified that the lists of lands that had been
selected by the county surveyors or state locating agents as
swamp lands had been carefully compared with field notes,
plats and other evidence on file in his office, and, "by the.
affidavits of said county surveyors or state locating agents, it
appears that the greater part of each smallest legal subdivision
of the lands embraced in said list is swampy or subject to
such overflow as to render the same unfit for cultivation, and
is therefore of the character contemplated by the act of 28th
of September, 1850." The list was endorsed in the General
Land Office, "Received with the surveyor general's letter of
-March 27, 1860."
The list of the lands selected in the manner above stated by
the agent of Calhoun County, together with a letter from the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, dated February
12, 1874 (this date is erroneously stated in the record to be
1884), was received at the local land-office at Des Moines,
Iowa, on the 18th day of February, 1874.

ROGERS LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v. EMIGRANT CO.

567

Argument for Defendant in Error.

It does not appear that the Secretary of the Interior ever
took any action in respect to the lists made by the agent of
Calhoun County of lands selected by him as swamp lands, nor
that the State or the county, nor any one claiming under the
county, ever directly sought any action by the General Land
Office or by the Secretary of the Interior in respect of such
selections.
It should be here stated that on the 12th day of December,
1861, a written contract was made between the county of
Calhoun, Iowa, and the American Emigrant Company, in
relation to the swamp and overflowed lands in that county.
Subsequently, in 1863, the county conveyed to the company,
subject to the provisions of the Swamp Land act of 1850, the
lands in controversy and other lands, upon certain conditions,
which it is unnecessary to set forth.
r'. Charles A. Clark for plaintiffs in error.
.3r.J. J. Davis for defendant in error.
The selection of the lands by the duly authorized agents of
the State, and the approval thereof by the surveyor general.
of the United States, and the report of the same to the General
Land Office, and the reception and recognition thereof by said
office, constitute an identification and segregation of the lands
as swamp lands, pursuant to the laws of the State, and the
instructions of the Secretary of the Interior, and are evidence
of the swamp character 6f the land, and that the title thereto
vested in the State of Iowa under the swamp land grant.
.Martin.v. Marks, 97 U. S. 345.
It is held by the United States land office, in a case of contest of swamp lands, that the selection of land by the State
under the swamp land grant, establishes a prima faoie case
that the land so selected is swamp land within the meaning
of the act of September 28, 1850.
That act ex Propriovigore, was a grant in yrxsenti to the
States of all the swamp and overflowed lands therein situated.
The title to the lands vested in the State at once on the pas-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

sage of the act. The title was not inchoate and was not
merely equitable, but was absolute and complete. The requirement of the second section of the act that a patent be
thereafter issued is not to be deemed as withholding the vestinglof the title under the language of the first section of the
grant. The patent when issued is merely evidential of what
was granted, the title to which had theretofore vested.
The holder of the swamp land title, even before patent has
been issued, can maintain an action at law to recover swamp
lands against a subsequent patent held by a preimptioner
under the pregmption laws of the United States. Wright v.
Roseberry, 121 U. S. 488; Irwin v. San _Franisco Savings
Union, 136 U. S. 578; Railroad Co. v. Smith, 9 Wall. 95.
Not only was the swamp grant a grant in pra,8enti, vesting
the title of the land in the State immediately upon the passage
thereof, but by its terms and the nature of the case it furnished
a means of identifying the subject-matter of the grant, and
any one who, subsequently to the date'of the grant, attempts
to enter upon such land, or to claim any rights thereto, does
so with notice and knowledge of the fact that the land is of
the character embraced within the terms of the grant, and
that he can obtain no right, title or interest thereto. This is
the settled rule of this court. W'fight v. Roseberry, ubi supra.
It is the province of the Secretary of the Interior, or of the
Land Department acting for him, in the first instance, to determine the character of land claimed to be swamp, but if he
fails, refuses or neglects to do his duty, or if he deprives himself of jurisdiction in the premises, then the question is for
the courts to determine. It will not be disputed that parol
evidence is admissible before the Secretary of the Interior,
and when the courts are vested with jurisdiction to determine
the question, the same evidence that is admissible before the
Secretary of the Interior is necessarily admissible before the
court.

In this case the Secretary of the Interior has neglected and
failed to pass upon the question of the character of the lands
in controversy; and by certifying them to the railroad company subsequently to the swamp grant, and prior to the pres-

ROGERS LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v. EMIGRANT CO.

569

Argument for Defendant in Error.

entation to him of the swamp selection, has deprived himself
of jurisdiction to act in the premises, thereby bringing the
case within the exact rule of the case of Railroad Co. v.
Smith, 9 Wall. 95. See also .AcCormnick v. Hayes, 159 U. S.
332; and Railroad Co. v. Fremont County, 9 Wall. 89.
When the Land Department of the United States certified
the lands in suit under the railroad grant, it deprived itself
of jurisdiction to investigate and determine the character of
the lands, or to patent the same under the swamp grant. In
this connection, it will be remembered, that the certifications
under the railroad grant were made before the swamp land
selections had reached the Department. The Executive Department had no power to recall the certifications after they were
issued, however wrongful they may have been; nor could it
cancel these certifications; nor had it any right or authority
to issue patents under the swamp grant after the certifications
had been issued. This is the well-established rule of the department in such cases, and it is based upon the decisions of
this court. Buena Vista County v. Iowa Falls &c. Railroad,
112 U. S. 165 ; T rightv. Roseberry, ubi supra; Bicknell v. Cornstock, 113 U. S. 149; .Mullanv. United States, 118 U. S.271.
The lands in suit have been certified as railroad lands, but
they should have been patented as swamp lands. The railroad claimant is a trustee of the rightful owner, who is entitled
to any appropriate relief that a court of equity has power to
grant. The swamp title may be established and quieted, and
the railroad claimant enjoined from asserting any adverse
claim, as has been done in this case; or the railroad claimant
may be compelled to convey to the rightful owners. Stark
v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402, 413; Silver v. Zadd, 7 Wall. 219;
-Lytle v. Arkansas, 9 How. 314; Warren v. VFan Brunt, 19
Wall. 646.
The lands in controversy herein having been thus found to
be swamp and overflowed lands within the meaning of the
act of September 28, 1850, by the referee, by the trial court,
and by the Supreme Court of the State, these findings will not
be disturbed by this court in this proceeding in error. Dower
v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.
AIR. JUSTICE HARLAx, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

In the light of the facts as stated above, and of the Federal
and state legislation relating to the matters in controversy,
we proceed to the consideration of the questions presented for
our determination.
As the railroad act of 1856 excepted from its operation all
lands theretofore reserved to the United States by any act of
Congress, or in any other manner by competent authority,
for any purpose whatever, the certification to the State by
the Department of the Interior of the lands in controversy as
having inured, under the railroad act of May 15, 1856, to the
State for the benefit of the Dubuque and Pacific lailroad
Company, was unauthorized, if at the date of the Swamp
Land act of 1850 the lands were swamp and overflowed lands,
whereby they were unfit for cultivation; for, lands of that
character were expressly reserved from the operation of the
railroad grant of 1856. If they were not granted to the State
for the' benefit of the railroad company, because previously
granted to the State as swamp and overflowed lands, they
could not properly have been certified or transferred to the
State to be applied in aid of the construction of the railroad.
_aCormick v. Ilaye8, 159 U. S.332, 338.
But it is equally true that the act of 1850 made it the duty
of the Secretary of the Interior, as soon as practicable after
the passage of that act, to make out an accurate list and plats
of the swamp and overflowed lands granted to any State and
transmit them to the executive of such State, "and, at the request of said governor, cause a patent to be issued to the State
therefor; and on thatyatent the fee simple to said lands shall
vest in said State," subject to the disposal of its legislature.
While, therefore, as held in many cases, the act of 1850 was
in presenti, and gave an inchoate title, the lands needed to
be identified as lands that passed under the act; which being
done, and not before, the title became perfect as of the date
of the granting act. IV .ight v. Roseberry, 121 U. S.488, 494
et seq. ; Tubbs v. lilhoit,138 U. S.134, 137; Chandlerv. Calu-

ROGERS LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v. EMIGRANT CO. 571
Opinion of the Court

zet.&& eela Mining Co., 149 U.S. 79, 91. So, in Ekrhardt
v. flogaboom, 115 U. S. 67, 68: "In Fi-ench v. Fyan, 93 U. S.
169, this court decided that, by the second section of the
Swamp Land act, the power and d*uty devolved upon the
Secretary of the Interior, as the head of flhe Department which
administered the affairs.of the public lands, of determining
what lands were of the description granted by that act, and
made his offioe the tribunal whose decision on .that subj'ct
was to be controlling." The identification of lands as lands
embraced by the Swamp Land act was therefore necessary
before the State could claim a patent or exercise absolute control of them.
In .McCor'mick v. Hayes, above cited, it appeared that the
Secretary of the Interior, proceeding under the railroad act
of May 15, 1856, had certified certain lands as inuring to
Iowa under that act. It was insisted in that case that the
lands were covered by the act of 1850, and, therefore, that
they were improperly certified under the railroad act of 1856 ;
a fact which, it was contended, could be established by parol
evidence, so as to fix the title in certain parties, independently
of any action that may -have been taken by the Interior Department upon the sujject. The precise nature of that case is
shown by this extract from the opinion of the court: "The
controlling question, therefore, in this case, so far as the plaintiff is concerned -and he must recover upon the strength of
his own title, even if that of the defendant be defective -is
whether, under the circumstances disclosed by the record,
the particular lands in controversy, in the absence of any
selection and certification of them by the United States to the
State, under the Swamp Land act, can be shown by parol
testimony to have been, in fact, at the date of that act, swamp
and overflowed lands. Congress having made it the duty of
the Secretary of the Interior to make out accurate lists and
plats of the lands embraced by the Swamp Land act, and
transmit the same to the governor of the State, and, at the
request of the latter, to cause a patent to be issued to the
State therefor, and having provided that 'on that patent
the fee simple to said lands shall vest in said State subject to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the disposal of the legislature thereof,' did the title vest in
the State, by virtue alone, and immediately upon the passage,
of the act, without any selection by or under the direction of
the Department of the Interior, so that the State's grantees
could maintain an action to recover the possession of them? "
In determining that question this court, after an extended
review of former decisions, thus stated (pp. 346-347) its conclusions: "The case before us is not like that of Railroad Co. v.
Smith, in which, as subsequently explained in French v. Fyan,
it was shown that there was an absolute neglect of duty on
the part of the Interior Department, in that it neither made
ndr would make any selection of lists whatever, and, therefore, there was no action by that Department that could be
relied on as a determination of the question whether the particular lands then in dispute were or were not embraced by
the Swamp Land act. That case was exceptional in its circumstances, and seemed to justify the decision rendered, in
order to prevent a total failure of justice, arising from the
unexplained neglect of the Land Department to perform the
duty imposed by the act of 1850. What was said in French v.
Iyam shows that this court not only so regarded the previous
case, but it was in effect said that the ruling in Railroad Corm
pany v. Smih was not to be extended to any case in which
the Land Department had taken action, or made a decision or
determination under the Swamp Land act." Again, and in
reference to the certification of lands under the railroad act
of 1856: "Twice the Land Department certified these lands to
the State as inuring to it under the railroad land grant act,
and it does not appear that the State has ever questioned the
correctness of that certification or applied to the Secretary of
the Interior for a reexamination as to the character of the
lands.

.

.

.

Upon the authority of former adjudications,

as well as upon principle, it must be held that parol evidence
is inadmissible to show, in opposition to the concurrent action
of Federal and state officers, having authority in the premises, that these lands were, in fact, at the date of the act of
1850, swamp and overflowed grounds, which should have been
embraced by Linn County in its selection of land of that char-

ROGERS LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v. EMIGRANT CO. 573
Opinion of the Court.

acter, and withheld from the State as lands granted expressly
in aid of railroad construction within its limits."
One of the prior adjudications referred to in .McCormicko
v. Hayes was Ohandler v. Calumet & ilecla lining Co., 149
U. S. 79, 88, 89, 92. In that case, the plaintiff claimed title
under the Swamp Land act of 1850; the defendant under
an act of Congress of 1852 granting public lands to Michigan
in aid of the construction of a ship canal around the Falls of
St. Mary. The lands there in controversy were not included
in swamp land selections under the act of 1850, but were
included in selections under the canal grant of 1852. Referring to Wright v. .ioseberry,121 U. S. 488, in connection with
previous cases, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Jackson,
said: "Under the principle announced in that case, and under
the foregoing facts in the present case, it would seem that
there had been such affirmative action on the part of the Secretary of the Interior in identifying the lands in this particular township, containing the lands in controversy, as would
amount to an identification of the lands therein, which pass
to the State by the swamp land grant, and that the selection'
by the State of the demanded premises under the canal grant
of 1852, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior,
and the certification of the Department to the State that they
were covered by the latter grant, may well be considered such
an adjudication of the question as should exclude the introduction of parol evidence to contradict it. The exclusion of the
land in dispute from the swamp lands, selected and patented
to the State, and its inclusion in the selection of the State as
land coming within the grant of 1852, with the approval of
such selection by the Interior Department and the certification thereof to the State, operated to. pass the title thereto as
completely as could have been done by formal patent, Frasher
v. O'Connor,115 U. S.102; and being followed by the State's
conveyance to the canal company, presented such official
action and such documentary evidence of title as should not
be open to question by parol testimony at law. Under the
facts of this case we are of opinion that the plaintiff in error
could not properly establish by oral evidence that the land in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

dispute was in fact swamp land, for the purpose of contradicting and invalidating the Department's certification thereof to
the State and the latter's patent to the canal company."
These decisions give much greater weight to the action of
the Land Department in certifying the lands in dispute under
the railroad grant of 1856, than was done by the judgment
below.
The Emigrant Company lays much stress upon that clause
of the railroad act of 1856 exempting from its operation all
lands previously reserved by the United States for any purpose. And upon this foundation it rests the contention that
no lands embraced by the Swamp Land act of 1850 could,
under any circumstances, be withdrawn by the Land Department from its operation, and certified to the State under
the railroad act of 1856. This contention assumes that the
lands in controversy were, within the meaning of the act of
1850, swamp and overflowed lands. But that fact was to be
determined, in the first instance, by the Secretary of the
Interior. It belonged to him, primarily, to identify all lands
that were to go to the State under the act of 1850. When he
made such identification, then, and not before, the State was
entitled to a patent, and "on such patent" the fee-simple title
vested in the State. The State's title was at the outset an
inchoate one, and did not become perfect, as of the date of
the act, until a patent was issued.
But it is equally clear that when the Secretary of the Interior certified in 1858 that the lands in controversy inured to
the State under the railroad act of 1856, he, in effect, decided
that they were not embraced by the Swamp Land act of 1850.
This, perhaps, furnishes an explanation not only of the fact
that no action was taken upon the report filed in the General
Land Office in 1860 showing that the agent of Calhoun
County had selected these lands as swamp and overflowed
lands, but of the further fact that, so far as this record dis-

closes, the attention of the Secretary of the Interior was never
directly called by the county to any claim by it, under the act
of 1850, to the lands certified under the railroad act of 1856.
Nor does it appear that the American Emigrant Company,

ROGERS LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v. EMIGRANT CO.

575

Opinion of the Court.

whose original contract with the county was made in 1861, ever
questioned before the Land Department the validity of the
Secretary's certification in 1858 of these lands as passing to the
State under the act of 1856, or asserted a claim to them, until
it brought this suit in 1877, nearly twenty years after that officer
certified them to the State under the railroad act. And it is
significant that this action of the Interior Departnent does
not seem ever to have been called in question by the State.
The case then is this: In 1858, the Secretary of the Interior
decided that the lands in controversy inured to the State under
the railroad act of 1856, and, if that decision was correct, then
they were not reserved from the operation of that act by the
Swamp Land act of 1850. The State was entitled to the
lands either under the act of 1850 or under that of 1856. It
was open to it, before accepting the lands under the railroad
act, to insist that they passed, under the act of 1850, as swamp
and overflowed lands. No such claim was made. The State
-the party primarily interested, an& with whom the Land
Department directly dealt-accepted the lands under the act
of 1856, and, therefore, not as inuring to. it as swamp and
overflowed lands within the meaning of the act of 1850, and,
as just stated, has never repudiated its action of 1858, nor
sought to have reopened the question necessarily involved in
the action of the Secretary when he certified the lands to the
State under the act of 1856.
It would seem that, upon every principle of justice, the
action of the Secretary of the Interior in certifying these lands
to the State under the act of 1856 should not be disturbed.
The fact that his certification was made subject "to any valid
interfering rights which may exist to any of the tracts" embraced in his certificate does not affect this conclusion. That
reservation could not have referred to any rights which the
State acquired or could have asserted under some other act of
Congress than that of 1856. Certainly, it was not intended
by the Interior Department to certify the lands under the
railroad act of 1856 subject to the right of the State, while
holding them under that certificate, to claim them under some
other and prior act. The action of the Department in 1858

OCTOBER TER-M, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

was intended to be final, as between the United States and
the State, in respect of the lands then certified as railroad
lands. If the State considered the lands to be covered by the
Swamp Land act, its duty was to surrender the certificate
issued to it under the railroad act. It could not take them
under one act, and while holding them under that act pass to
one of its counties the right to assert an interest in them under
another and different act.
Are those in this action who claim under the State and
under the act of 1850 in any better condition than the State ?
Can they be heard to question the action of the Land Department in -1858, if the State is estopped from so doing? We
have seen that the county of Calhoun made a written agreement in 1861 with the American Emigrant Company relating
to swamp and overflowed lands. But if no such agreement
had been made, would the county be heard to say that the
Land Department erred, as matter of fact, when, in 1858, it
decided that these lands passed to the State under the railroad
act? Would the creature of the State be permitted to say
what its creator was estopped from saying? The county of
Calhoun is a mere political subdivision of the State, created
for the State's convenience, and to aid in carrying out, within
a limited territory, the policy of the State. Its local government can have no will contrary to the will of the State, and
it is subject to the paramount authority of the State, in respectas well of its acts as of its pr 6 perty and revenue held for public purposeg. The State made it, and could, in its discretion,
unmake it, and administer such property and revenue though
other instrumentalities. Jefferson County v. .'drd, 4 Greene,
(Iowa) 367, 370; Soper v. -enry County, 26 Iowa, 264, 267;
Mairyland v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,3 How. 534, 550;
United State8 v. Railroad,17 Wall. 322, 329; Hlamilton County
Commissioners v. Mighels, 7 Ohio St. 109, 118; A8leew v.
Hale County, 54 Alabama, 639, 640; 1 Dillon's Mun. Corp.
§§ 29-23, 54 -71 inclusive and authorities there cited; Angel
& Ames on Corp. § 31.
It would seem to be clear that the relations of the county.
and the State are such that the action of. the latter in accept-

ROGERS LOCOMOTIVE WORKS v. EMIGRANT CO.

577

Opinion of the Court.

ing the lands in controversy under the railroad act was binding upon the county of Calhoun, as one of the governmental
agencies of the State; and that the county could not, after
such acceptance, claim these lands as swamp and overflowed
lands, or, by assuming to dispose of them as lands of that
character, pass to the purchaser the right to raise a question
which, in view of its subordination to the State, it was estopped from raising. We are of opinion that the plaintiff
could not, by any agreement made with the county in 1861 or
afterwards, acquire any greater right , or better position, in
respect of these lands, than the county itself had after the
certification of them in 1858 as lands inuring to the State
under the railroad act of 1856.
When the equities of the respective parties are considered,
the view we have expressed is much strengthened by the circumstance that the defendants and those under whom they
claim, or some of them, have paid taxes upon these lands ever
since 1862, that is, for fifteen years before the institution of
this suit in 1877.
We are of opinion that the Supreme Court of Iowa did not
give proper effect to the action of the Interior Department in
1858. It should have been adjudged that, so far as the lands
in controversy are concerned, the plaintiffs claiming under the
county of Calhoun and the State, as well as under the act of
1850, were concluded by the act of the Secretary of the Interior when he certified such lands as inuring to the State
under the railroad act of 1856, and by the act of the State in
accepting and retaining the lands under that act; consequently,
the suit should have been dismissed for want of equity, with
costs to the respective defendants.
The judgment is 'eversed, and the cause is remanded for
further yroceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
VOL. cLXIV-37

