NATIONAL ACCIDENT SOCIETY v. SPIRO.
Opinion of the Court.

NATIONAL ACCIDENT SOCIETY v. SPIRO.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 460.

Submitted April 2T, 1896. -Decided

November 80, 1896.

A defendant, by filing a petition in a state court for removal of the cause
to the United States court, in general terms, unaccompanied by a plea in
abatement, and without specifying or restricting the purpose of his appearance, does not thereby waive objection to the jurisdiction of the
court for want of sufficient service of the summons.

TuE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. E. D. McBurney for plaintiff in error.
Mr. tenry H. Ingersoll for defendant in error.
THE CIrEF JUSTICE: This is a certificate from the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, propounding, after a
preliminary statement, the following question:
"Does a defendant by filing a petition in a state court for
removal of the cause to the United States court, in general
terms, unaccompanied by a plea in abatement, and without
specifying or restricting the purpose of his appearance, thereby
waive objection to the jurisdiction of the court for want of
sufficient service of the summons ?"
For the reasons given and on the authorities cited in the
case of Wabash Western Railway v. Brow, ante, 271, the
question must be answered in the negative.
Certificate accordingly.

MR.

JUSTICE

BREWER and MR.

JUSTICE PECxiAm

dissented.

OCTOBER TERX, 1896.
Opinion of the Court,

UNITED STATES v. DELANEY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 493. Submitted November 3, 1896.-Decided November80, 1896.

Doing that which it is necessary to do, in order that a newly created land
office may be in a proper and fit condition at the time appointed for
opening it for public business, is a part of the official duties of the
person who is appointed its register and receiver.
The claimant having entered on the performance of such duties at a new
office in Oklahoma on the 18th of July, 1890, and having been engaged in
-performing them, in the manner described by the court in its opinion,
from thence to the 1st of September following, when the office was opened
for the transaction of public business, is entitled to compensation as
register and receiver during that period.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr.Assistant Attorney General Dodge and Mr. Assistant
Attorney Gorman for appellants.
.Mr. I. W. Dudley, -Mr.L. T. .Michener,.Mr. John C. Chaney
and AMr. J. R. Garrisonfor appellee.

XR. JUSTICE PECKHAX delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Court of Claims. It involves
simply the question as to the right of the appellee to compensation as register and receiver of the land office at the city of
Oklahoma, in the Territory of Oklahoma, from the 18th of
July to the 1st of September, 1890.
It appears from the findings of fact by the Court of Claims
that the land office at Oklahoma city was first established by
an executive order of the President on the 6th of June, 1890.
The appellee, John C. Delaney, was duly appointed and commissioned as receiver of public moneys at Oklahoma city on
the 23d of June, 189Q, and on the 7th of July, 1890, he qualified by taking the oath of office and giving the bond required
by law. On the 10th of July, 1890, the claimant was verbally
directed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office to

