PRAIRIE STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.

227

Statement of the Case.

matter was prefaced by a declaration of the court that it gives
a matter of admonition. That admonition was just and sound.
Reputation is the general judgment of the community in respect to the witness whose reputation is challenged, and is not
made up by the flippant talk of a few outlaws.
For these reasons I dissent.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN and MR. JusTICE PEKHAx concur in
this dissent.

PRAIRIE STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. IHITCHCOCK.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 10, 16. Arg ud October 13, 14, 1896.- Decided November 30, 1896.
S. contracted with the United States, in 1888, to erect a custom-house at
Galveston. H. was his surety on a bond to the United States for the
faithful performance of that contract. The contract gave the government a right to retain a part of the price until the work should be finished. In consideration of advances made, and to be made, by a bank,
S. gave it in 1890, written authority to receive from the United States
the final contract payment so reserved. The Treasury declined to recognize this authority, but consented, on the request of the contractor, to
forward, when due, a check for the final payment to the representative
of the bank. Later S. defaulted in the performance of his contract, and
I., as surety, without knowledge of what had taken place between the
bank, the contractor and the Treasury, assumed performance of the contract obligations, and completed the work, disbursing, in so doing, without reimbursement, an amount in excess of the reserved final payment.
The bank and II., each by a separate action, sought to recover that
reserved sum from the government. The cases being heard together it
Is Held, that, a claim against the government not being transferable, the
rights of the parties are equitable only, and the equity, if any, of the
bank in the reserved fund, being acquired in 1890, was subordinate to
the equity of H. acquired in 1888.

THE real contestants in the controversy below were the
Prairie State National Bank and Charles A. Hitchcock, who
respectively claimed the right to receive from the government

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

a balance in its hands of $11,850. This balance arose by the
retention from time to time of ten per cent upon the estimated
value of work done under a contract entered into on May 10,
188S, by the government with Charles Sundberg & Company,
wherein they agreed for the consideration of $118,590 to erect
-acustom-house at Galveston, Texas. The right of the government to retain the reserved sums was founded upon the following provision in the contract:
"Payments to be made in the following manner, viz.: ninety
per cent (nine tenths) of the value of the work executed to the
satisfaction of the party of the first part will be paid from
time to time as the work progresses in monthly payments,
(the said value 'to be ascertained by the party of the first
part), and ten per cent (one tenth) thereof will be retained
until the completion of the entire work and the approval and
the acceptance of the same by the party of the first part, which
amount shall be forfeited by said party of the second part
in the event of the nonfulfillment of this contract, subject,
however, to the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury;
it being expressly stipulated and agreed that said forfeiture
shall not relieve the party of the second part from liability to
the party of the first ptrt for all damages sustained by
reason- of any breach of this contract."
While the respective claims were pending before the
Comptroller of the Treasury, and at his request, the Secretary of the Treasury transmitted the same to the Court of
Claims under ยง 1063, Rev. Stat.
The bank bases its claim to the fund upon the following
state of facts: On February 3,. 1890, in consideration of
advances made and to be made by the Prairie Bank, Sundberg & Company gave to one Van Zandt, a representative of
the bank, an order or power of attorney, authorizing him to
receive from the United States the final payment under the
contract. The Acting Secretary of the Treasury declined to
recognize this power of attorney, but expressed a willingness,
on request of the contractors, to forward, when it became due,
the check for the final payment to the address of Van Zandt.
Being informed by the latter that this arrangement would

PRAIRIE STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.

229

Statement of the Case.

be satisfactory to the contractor and himself, the Assistant
Secretary of the Treasury gave direction to the disbursing
agent of the building to send the final check, drawn to the
order of the contractor, to the address of Van Zandt. Between
February and Mlay, 1890, upon the faith of the lien upon the
final payment alleged to have been acquired by this arrangement, the bank advanced to Sundberg & Company about six
thousand dollars, but, although it was claimed by the bank
that the amoutit of the advances in question were, in large
part, actually used in the pefformance of the contract of
Sundberg & Company, the Court of Claims failed to find such
to be the fact. It is true that the court, in one of its findings,
gives "a full and accurate statement of the checking, deposit
and loan accounts between-the bank and Sundberg & Company from January 2-1, 1890, to August 15, 1890," but to
whom the checks were made payable or for what purpose
they were issued does not appear.
Hitchcocek's claim to the fund was asserted upon the ground
that in May, 1890, Sundberg & Company defaulted in the
performance of their contract, and that thereupon he, as
surety, without any knowledge of the alleged rights of the
bank, assumed the completion of the contract with the consent
of the contractors, and that he had disbursed therein about
fifteen thousand dollars in excess of the current payments
from the government. The bond which Hitchcock executed
as surety was made pursuant to the following provision contained in the contract between Sundberg & Company and the
government:
"It is further covenanted and agreed between the parties to
this contract that the party of the second part shall execute,
with two or more good and sufficient sureties, a bond to the
United States in the sum of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000),
conditioned for the faithful performance of this contract and
the agreements and covenants herein made by the said party
of the second part."
The Court of Claims held that lHitchcock was entitled to
the fund, 25 C. C1. 185, and entered judgment accordingly.
The Prairie Bank thereupon appealed, and a cross appeal was

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

taken by the United States in order that it might be protected
from a double liability, in the event this court should hold
that the Prairie Bank was entitled to any part of the fund.
.

,Mr.
Howard Henderson and Mr. A. B. Browne for
Prairie
State Bank. .Mr. A. T.Britton was on their brief.
Mr. George A King for Hitchcock. Mr.Rufus H. Thayer
was on his brief.
.Mr. Assistant A ttorney GeneralDodge for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The question to be determined iswhich of the two contestants p6ssesses a superior right to the fund. It is self-evident
that, considering the agreements between Sundberg & Company and the bank as an intended transfer pro tanto of the
rights of the latter to the results of the contract with the
United States, such transfer would be void under ยง 3477, Rev.
Stat. This position was not controverted in the discussion at
bar, but it was asserted that as the bank had advanced money
to complete the -building and thus to enable Sundberg &
Company to perform their contract obligations with the government, therefore the bank had an equitable lien *upon the
ten per cent retained .by the government paramount.to any
lien in favor of Hitchcock, whose lien, it was contended, only
arose from the date of his advances iifade to execute the
contract upon: Sundberg's default.
Thus the respective contentions are as follows: The Prairie
Bank asserts an equitable lien in its favor, which it claims
originated in February, 1890, and is therefore paramount to
Hitchcock's lien, which it is asserted arose only ht the date of
his advances. The claim of Hitchcock, on the other hand, is
that his equity arose at the time he entered into the contract
of suretyship, and therefore his right is prior in date and
paramount to that of the bank.

PRAIRIE STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.

231

Opinion of the Court.

In considering these conflicting claims, it must be recognized at the outset that the terms of the original contract
made by the United States with Sundberg were in nowise
affected or changed by the agreements subsequently made
between Sundberg and the Prairie Bank. Not to so consider
would be admitting the application of section 3477 on the one
hand, and then immediately proceeding to deny its effect on
the other. We shall, therefore, in examining the rights of
the parties proceed upon the hypothesis that the contract
made by the United States remained in full force and effect,
and that the rights, if any, of both parties to this controversy
were subject to its terms.
That Hitchcock, as surety on the original contract, was
entitled to assert the equitable doctrine of subrogation is elementary. That doctrine is derived from the civil law, and its
requirements are, as stated in -zEtna Life Insurance Company
v. Afiddleport, 124 U. S. 534: "1, that -the person seeking its
benefits must have paid a debt due to a third party before he
can be substituted to that party's rights; and, 2, that in doing
this he must not act as a mere volunteer, but on compulsion,
to save himself from loss by reason of a superior lien or claim
on the part of the person to whom he pays the debt, as in
cases of sureties, prior mortgagees, etc. The right is never
accorded in equity to one who is a mere volunteer in paying
a debt of one person to another." See authorities reviewed
at pages 548 et seq..
As said by Chancellor Johnson in Gadsden v. Brown,
Speer's Eq. So. Car. 37, 41 (quoted and referred to approvingly in the opinion in Insurance Co. v. Middleport, just referred to), "The doctrine of subrogation is a pure unmixed
equity, having its foundation in the principles of natural justice, and from its very nature never could have been intended
for the relief of those who were in any condition in which
they were at liberty to elect whether they would or would
not be bound; and, as far as I have been able to learn its
history, it never has been so applied. If one with the perfect
knowledge of the facts will part with his money, or bind himself by his contract in a sufficient consideration, any rule of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

law which would restore him his money or absolve him from
his contract would subvert the rules of social order. It has
been directed in its application exclusively to the relief of
those that were already bound who could not but choose to
abide the penalty."
Under the principles thus governing subrogation, it is clear
whilst Hitchcock was entitled to subrogation, the bank was
not. The former in making his payments discharged an
obligation due by Sundberg for the performance of which he,
Hitchcock, was bound under the obligation of his suretyship.
The bank, on the contrary, was a mere volunteer, who lent
money to Sundberg on the faith of a presumed agreement and
of supposed rights acquired thereunder. The sole question,
therefore, is whether the equitable lien, which the bank claims
it has, without reference to the question of its subrogation, is
paramount to the right of subrogation which unquestionably
exists in favor of Hitchcock. In other words, the rights of the
parties depend upon whether Hitchcock's-subrogation must be
considered as arising from and relating back to the date of
the original contract, or as taking its origin solely from the
date of the advance by him.
A great deal of confusion has arisen in the case by treating
Hitchcock as subrogated merely "in the rights of Sundberg
& Co." in the fund, which, in effect, was saying that he was
subrogated to no rights whatever. Hitchcock's right of subrogation, when it became capable of enforcement, was a right
to resort to the securities and remedies which the creditor
(the United States) was capable of asserting against its debtor
Sundberg & Company, had the security not satisfied the obligation of the contractors, and one of such remedies was the
right based upon the original contract to appropriate the ten
per cent retained in its hands. If the United States had
been compelled to complete the work, its right to forfeit the
ten per cent and apply the accumulations in reduction of the
damage sustained remained. The right of Hitchcock to subrogation, therefore, would clearly entitle him when, as surety,
he fulfilled the obligation of Sundberg & Company, to the
government, to be substituted to the rights which the United

PRAIRIE STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.

233

Opinion of the Court.

States might have asserted against the fund. It would hardly
be claimed that if the sureties had failedto avil theriselves
of the privilege'of completing the work, they would not be
entitled to a credit of the ten per cent reserved in reduction
of the excess of cost to the government in completing the
work beyond the sum actually paid to the contractor, irrespective of the source from which the contractor had obtained
the material and labor which went into the building.
That a stipulation in a building contract for the retention,
until the completion of the work, of a certain portion of the consideration, is as much for the indemnity of him who may be
guarantor of the performance of the work as for him for
whom the work is to be performed; that it raises an equity in
the surefy in the fund to be created; and that a disregard of
such stipulation by the voluntary act of the creditor operates
to release the sureties, is amply sustained by authority. Thus
in Calvert v. London Dock Co., 2 Keen, 638, (1838,) where
a contractor had undertaken to perform certain work, and it
was agreed that three fourths of the work, as finished, should
be paid for every two months, and the remaining one fourth
upon the completion of the whole work, it was held that the
sureties for the due performance of the contract were released
from their liability by reason of payments exceeding three
fourths of the work done having been made to the contractor
without the consent of the sureties before the completion of
the whole work. To the argument that the extra advances
really went into the work and so enured to the benefit of
the sureties, Lord Langdale, Master of the Rolls, answered as
follows (p. 644):
"The argument, however, that the advances beyond the
stipulations of the contract were calculated to be beneficial to
the sureties, can be of no avail. In almost every case where
the surety has been released, either in consequence of time
being given to the principal debtor, or of a compromise being
made with him, it has been contended that what was done
was beneficial to the surety-and the answer has always
been, that the surety himself was the proper judge of that and that no arrangement, different from that contained in his

OCTOBER TERIM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

contract, is to be forced upon him; and bearing in mind that
the surety, if he pays the debt, ought to have the benefit of all
the securities possessed by the creditor, the question always is,
whether what has been done lessens that security.
"In this case, the company were to pay for three fourths of
the work done every two months; the remaining one fourth
was to remain unpaid for, till the whole was completed; and
the effect of this stipulation was, at the same time, to urge
Streather to perform the work, and to leave in the hands of
the company a fund wherewith to conplete work, if he did
not; and thus it materially tended to protect the sureties.
"What the company did was perhaps calculated to make it
easier for Streather to complete the work, if he acted with
prudence and good faith ;but it also took away that particular
sort of .pressure which by the contract was intended to be
applied to him. And the company, instead of ke.eping thdmselves in the situation of debtors, having in their hands one
fourth of the value of the work done, became creditors to a
large amount, without any security; and, under the circumstances, I think that their situation with respect to Streather
was so far altered that the sureties must be considered to be
discharged from their suretyship."
In General Steam 'Navigation Co. v. Bolt, 6 C. B. (N. S.)
550, (1859,)'upon'a second appeal of the case, the Exchequer
Chamber held that a plea by a surety to an action to recover
from him-the excess of cost in completing a ship after the
contractor had made default, and also a stipulated sum by
way of damages for delay, to the effect that the owner, without the consent of the surety, bad allowed the builder to.
anticipate a greater portion of the last two instalments
specified in the contract, and thus materially and prejudicially
alter the surety's position, was a prima facie answer to the
action, and that the onus lay upon the plaintiffs to prove the
allegations of their reply that the advances were made with
the knowledge and assent and at the request of the surety. It
was argued on behalf of the plaintiffs, among other contentions, that under the circumstances in the case there was
nothing to show that the defendant could be prejudiced in

PRAIRIE STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.

235

Opinion of the Court.

his capacity of surety by any of the advances made by the
plaintiffs, and therefore he was not discharged from his
liability of surety. The appellate court declined to hear
counsel for the plaintiffs. In announcing the opinion of the
court aflirming the judgment below, Pollock, C. B., said,

(p. 604):
"Now, certainly, prima faoie, the withdrawal of a fund
which is a security for the thing in respect of the not doing
o.f which he is now called upon to pay damages, is a prejudice
to the surety. He is not in the same situation with regard to
his principal in which he ought to be placed; he is deprived
of the security of the fund out of which the company might
in the first instance have indemnified themselves. With regard to the point that there was constructive notice, that has
very properly been abandoned by Mr. Welsby. It is clearly
not tenable; prima facie, the surety was prejudiced by the
existing state of things. Whether there could have been any
proof to shew that, notwithstanding the appearance of prejudice, in reality none was or could be sustained, it is not at
all necessary to inquire. It is, however, exceedingly difficult
to conceive any state of things in which it must not to a
considerable extent be a prejudice to a surety to have a fund
withdrawn which would be in reality the security to the
company with whom he is contracting, and to the surety who
guara'ntees."
Polak v. Everett, 1 Q. B. D. 669, was decided by the
Court of Appeal in 1S76. Brandt, at page 629 of his Treatise
on Suretyship, thus succinctly states the facts and ruling in
the case:
"4 agreed to redeem certain shares for 60001 within
twelve months, and B became his surety. A at the same
time transferred to the creditor certain book accounts,
amounting to 80001, with the understanding that they should
be collected, and one -half the amount collected should go as
payment on the 60001. Afterwards the creditors, for an
equivalent in shares and cash, released to A their interest in
the book accounts, held, this discharged B altogether from his
obligation, even though the book accounts would only have

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

paid 40001 of the 60001, if they had all been collected. This
was put upon the ground that the contract for which the
surety became responsible had been changed, and he was
thereby wholly discharged, the same as if time had been
given, or any other material alteration in the original contract
had been made."
The three judges of the Queen's Bench agreed upon the
proposition that it was an established principle of equity that
where time was given by a creditor to the principal debtor
without the -assent of the surety, there was thereby a violation of rights which the surety acquired when he entered into
the suretyship, and that no inquiry could be made into the
question of whether the act of the creditor was for the benefit or to the prejudice of the surety. Lord Blackburn thought
the same principle should govern in the case before the court
where the "equitable right" which the surety acquired when
he entered into the suretyship to have the book debts appropriated to reduce the principal debt, had been taken away
from him by the act of the creditor in releasing -the book
debts to'the person collecting them. He also (p. 676) called
attention to the fact that there was a distinction made in
equity between those rights of a surety, which he acquired at
the time whert-he entered into the suretyship and those subsequently acquired, such as the benefit of new securities which
might be received by the creditors subsequent to the making
of the original contract, and he remarked that the question
whether a dealing by the creditor with such new securities
would operate to discharge the surety was quite a different
question from that before the court.
Mellor, J., said (p. 676) that the question was one of contract, "and the surety is entitled not to be affected by anything done by the Qreditor, who has no right to consider
whethe it might be to the advantage of the surety or not.
The surety is entitled to remain- in' the position in which he
was at the time when the contract was entered into."
Quain, J., said (p. 677):
โข "I agree with my brother Mellor, that it is .a thoroughly
.sound and safe principle.that, where the act is voluntary and"

PRAIRIE STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.

237

Opinion of the Court.

deliberate, the creditor, altering the contract and rendering
it impossible that it should be carried out in its original form,
should suffer. This is a sound doctrine, which ought not to
be impeached and cannot be impeached, because it is established by authority."
The judgment of the Queen's Bench was affirmed by the
Court of Appeal (Jessel, M. R..; Kelly, 0. B.; Mellish, L. J.,
and Denman, J.) without opinion other than the statement
that "the court had no doubt that the view taken by the
Queen's Bench Division was correct, and affirmed the judgment for the same reasons."
folme v. Brunskill, 3 Q. B. D. 495, (1877,) substantially
reiterated the principle decided in the earlier cases. Cotton,
L. J., with whom concurred Lord Justice Thesiger, said (p. 505):
"The true rule, in my opinion, is, that if there is any agreement between the principals with reference to the contract
guaranteed, the surety ought to be consulted, and that if he
has not consented to the alteration, although in cases where it
is, without inquiry, evident'that the alteration is unsubstantial,
or that it cannot be otherwise than beneficial to the surety,
the surety may not be discharged; yet, that if it is not selfevident that the alteration is unsubstantial, or one which cannot be prejudicial to the surety, the court will not, in an action
against the surety, go into an inquiry as to the effect of the
alteration or allow the question, whether the surety is discharged or not, to be determined by the finding of a jury as
tQ the materiality of the alteration or on the question whether
it is to the prejudice of the surety, but will hold that in such
a case the surety himself must be the sole judge whether or
not he will consent to remain liable, notwithstanding the
alteration, and that if he has not so consented he will be
discharged."
The rulings of this court have been equally emphatic in upholding the right of a surety to stand upon the agreement
with reference to which he entered into his contract of suretyship and to exact strict compliance with its stipulations. Thus,
in the case of Afiller v. iStewa t, 9 Wheat. 680, Mr. Justice
Story, in delivering the opinion of -the court, said (p. 702):

OCTOBER TERM,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

"Nothing can be clearer, both upon principle and authority,
than the doctrine that the liability of a surety is not to be extended, by implication, beyond the terms of his contract. To
.the extent, and in the manner, and under the circumstances,
pointed out in his obligation, he is bound, and no further. It
is not sufficient that he may sustain no injury by a change in
the contract, or that it may even be for his benefit. He has
a right to stand upon the very terms of his contract; and if
he does not assent to any variation of it, and a variation is
made, it is fatal."
In 2eese v. United States, 9 Wall. 13, Mr. Justice Field,
delivering the opinion of the court, said (p. 21):
"It is true, the rights and liabilities of sureties on a recognizauce are in many respects different from those of sureties
on ordinary bonds or commercial contracts. The former can
at any time discharge themselves from liability by surrendering their principal, and they are discharged by his death.
The latter can only be released by payment of the debt or
performance of the act stipulated. But in respect to the
limitations of their liability to the precise terms of. their contract, and the effect upon such liability of any change in those
terms without their consent, their positions are similar. And
the law upon these matters is perfectly well settled. Any
chaiige in the contract, on which they are sureties, made by
the principal parties to it without their assent, discharges
them, and for obvious reasons. When the change is made
they are not bound by the contract in its original form, for
that has ceased to exist. They are not bound by the contract
in its altered form, for to that they have never assented. Nor
does it matter how trivial the change, or even that it may be
of advantage to the sureties. They have a right to stand
upon the very terms of their undertaking."
And the soundness of these opinions was recognized in
Gross v. Allen, 141 U. S. 528, 537, it being held that in the
case there before the court the rights of the surety were not
altered by certain transactions of which complaint was made,
but remained'as before.
Finney v. Condon, 86 Illinois, 78, (1877,) was a dispute over

PRAIRIE STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.

239

Opinion of the Court.

a building contract. It was held that. where, under the terms
of a building contract, payments were to be made semimonthly, according to the estimates of an architect, of a
certain proportion of the value of the work done, the surety
was bound by the estimates and could not defeat a recovery
of damages sustained by reason of the contractor abandoning
the completion of the erection of the dwelling houses provided
for in the contract, upon the plea that payments in excess of
the amount stipulated in the contract were made by the
owner. The doctrine, however, enunciated in Calv'rt v. London Dock Co. and Steam NTavigation Co. v. 1?olt, 8upra, was
approved by the court in the opinion delivered by Mr. Justice
Scott, who said (pp. 80, 81):
"The point relied on most cofifidently in the defence is,
that the sureties for the performance of the contract are
released from all liability thereon, on account of payment
exceeding eighty-five per cent of the work done having been
made to the contractor without their consent before the completion of the work. The law upon this subject seems to be,
the reserved per cent to be withheld until the completion of
the work to be done is as much for the indemnity of him who
may be a guarantor of the performance of the contract as for
him for whom it is to be performed. And there is great justness in the rule adopted. Equitably, therefore, the sureties in
such cases are entitled to have the sum agreed upon held as a
fund out of which they may be indemnified, and if the principal releases it without their consent it discharges them from
their undertaking. The principle is, the withdrawal of the
fund agreed upon as security for the performance of the
contract without his consent is a prejudiice to the surety or
guarantor. Sureties and guarantors are not to be made liable
beyond the express terms of their engagements. They have
the right to prescribe the terms and conditions on which they
will assume responsibility, and neither of the principals can
change those terms without the consent of the sureties, even
with a view to avoid ultimate liability."
Applying the principles, which are so clearly settled by the
foregoing authorities, to the case at bar, it is manifest that if

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for Plaintiff in.
Error.

the transaction in February, 1890, by which the Prairie Bank
acquired its alleged lien on the fund possessed the effect contended for by the bank, it would necessarily operate to alter
and impair rights acquired by the surety under the original
contract.
Sundberg & Company could not transfer to the bank any
greater rights in the fund than they themselves possessed.
Their rights were subordinate to those of the United States
and the sureties. Depending, therefore, solely upon rights
claimed to have been derived in February,.1890, by express
contract with Sundberg & Company, it necessarily results
that the equity, if any, acquired by the Prairie Bank in the
ten per cent fund then in existence and thereafter to arise was
subordinate to the equity -which had, in May, 1888, arisen in
favor of the surety Hitchcock. It follows that the Court of
Claims did not err in holding that Hitchcock was entitled to
the fund, and its judgment is therefore affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

DRAPER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 496. Submitted October 23, 1896. -Decided

November 80, 1896.

When the enabling act, admitting a State into the Union, contains no exclusion of jurisdiction as to crimes committed on an Indian reservation by
others than Indians or against Indians, the state courts are vested with
jurisdiction to try and punish such crimes. United States v. McBratney,
104 U. S. 621, to this point affirmed and followed.
The provision in the enabling act of Montana that the "Indian lands shall
remain under the absolute jurisdiction and control of the Congress of the
United States" does not affect the application of this general rule to the
State of Montana.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr.J.ITV. Strevell, for plaintiff in error,submitted on his brief.

.Mr. S. A. Balliet and Mr. Lewi8 Penwell were on the brief.

