LALONE v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

any such question was passed upon by the state court.

Xis-

8ouri Pacifc Railway v. Fitzgerald,160 U. S. 556, 575.
Where a case is brought to this court on error or appeal
from a judgment of a state court, unless it appear in the
record that a Federal question was raised in the state court
before the entry of final judgment in the case, this court is
without jurisdiction. Simmerman v. Nebraska, 116 U. S. 54..
It has also been frequently decided that, to give this court
jurisdiction on writ of error to a state court, it must appear
affirmatively, not only that a Federal question was presented
for decision by the state court, but that its decision was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it was decided
adversely to the party claiming a right under the Federal laws
or'Constitution, or that the judgment as rendered could not
have been given without deciding it. .E stis v. Bolles, 150
U. S. 361; CaliforniaPowder lVorks v. Davis, 151 U. S. 389,
393; Missouri Paci.fc Railway Company v. Fitzgerald,160
U. S. 556, 576.
Nothing of the kind appears from this record, and the writ of
error must, therefore, be
Dismissed.

LALONE v. UNITED STATES.
.APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 4. Submitted October 13, 1896. -Decided

November 30, 1S96.

The rule that in all proceedings instituted to recover moneys or to set aside
afid annul deeds or contracts or other written instruments on the ground
of alleged fraud practised by a defendant upon a plaintiff, the evidence
tending to prove the fraud and upon which to found a verdict or decree
must be clear and satisfactory extends to cases of alleged fraudulent representations, on the faith of which an officer of the government has done
An official act upon which rights of the party making the representations
may be founded; and in this case the evidence on the part of the plaintiff,
when read in connection with that which was given on the part of the
defendants, falls far short of the requirements of the rule.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Hr.A. T. Britton and Xr. A. B. iBrowne for appellants.
.Mr. Solicitor General for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAIx delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought by the United States to
recover back certain moneys which had theretofore been paid
the appellant, Joseph Lalone, upon the granting of his application for a pension, and to enjoin the defendant, the First
National Bank of Beaver Dam, Wisconsin, from paying out
certain moneys deposited therein by the appellant, M argaret
Lalone, the wife of Joseph, and which moneys were alleged
'to be part of those paid to Joseph, and to enjoin the conveyance of certain real estate, the legal title to which was vested
in the defendant, Margaret Lalone, and which plaintiff alleged
to have been purchased by her with a portion of such moneys,
and to vest the title to such moneys and real estate in the
United States.
The ground upon which, a recovery of the moneys was
sought was that the pension had been obtained through the
fraudulent acts and representations of the individual defendants. The bill alleged that the defendant, Joseph Lalone,
filed with the pension bureau, on the 19th of May, 1880, a
claim for a pension on account of partial paralysis due to disease and sickness contracted while serving in the army during
1865 ; that after the consideration of such claim for a period
of eight years, and until April 21, 1888, the application was
allowed, and more than -$5000 were paid to the applicant as
arrearages of pension, and the sum of $30 per month thereafter was allowed. The bill then alleged that the partial
paralysis which Lalone claimed he was suffering from and
which he said resulted from the disease and sickness contracted while in such army service was not the result of any
such cause, and that Lalone's allegation to that effect was
false and fraudulent, and intended to deceive the officers
charged with the duty of examining and allowing such claim,
and that it did so deceive them; that claimant's disability

LALONE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

was caused by and resulted from an accident suffered by him
long subsequent to his discharge from the army; that Lalone
had turned the pension moneys received from the government
over to his wife, Margaret Lalone, who had deposited $5000
thereof in her name in the First National Bank of Beaver
Dam, Wisconsin, and had thereafter withdrawn all but about
$1500 thereof, and with it had purchased 120 acres of land in
Dodge County, Wisconsin, subject to an existing mortgage of
$1300; that Margaret Lalone had knowledge of and was a
party to the fraud alleged. The bill asl-ed for a decree giving
the United States the residue of the fund in the bank and a
conveyance of the realty and for an injunction pendente. lite..
Upon the filing of the bill an injunction was issued. The
individual defendants each answered under oath denying all
the charges of fraud made by the bill. The bank admitted
its possession of $1500 deposited by Margaret Lalone.
On the testimony submitted, which consisted of the depositions of many witnesses, the Circuit Court rendered a final
decree in favor of the United States against- the individual
defendants for a recovery of the amount of money received
by them from such pension fund with interest; the decree
also provided that the bank should pay the $1500 on deposit
with it into the United States Treasury; it also ordered- the
sale of the realty, and that the proceeds of the sale should
be applied to the payment of the money decree against the
Lalones, with execution for any deficiency.
The case is now before us for review. In all proceedings
instituted to recover moneys or to set aside and annul deeds
or contracts or other written instruments on the ground of
alleged fraud practised by a defendant upon a plaintiff,
the rule is of long standing and is of universal application,
that the evidence tending to prove the fraud and upon which
to found a verdict or decree must be clear and satisfactory.
It may be circumstantial but it must be persuasivb. A mere
preponderance of evidence which at the same time is vague or
ambiguous is not sufficient to warrant a finding of fraud, and
will not sustain a judgment based on such finding. The rule
obtains in cases of alleged fraudulent representations made to
voL. cLxiv-17

OCTOBER TERAM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

an officer of the government upon the faith of which the
officer has issued a patent or done any other official act upon
which the rights of the party making the misrepresentations
may be founded. This principle is exemplified in United States
v. Iron'Silver Mining (Jo., 128 U. S. 673, and cases cited, and
is not confined to cases of patents for lands.
Examining the record in this case and after perusing the
whole evidence contained therein, and having in mind the rule
above stated, we are entirely convinced that the evidence on
the part of the plaintiff when read in connection with that
which was given on the part of the defendants, falls far short
of the requirements of the rule.
There are some facts which are established by uncontradicted
evidence in the case. Joseph Lalone, one of the defendants
and the individual to whom the pension was granted, was, at
the time of his enlistment, a young man of about thirty-two
years of age, of French extraction, and living in the State of
Wisconsin. In 1864 he enlisted as a private in -one of the
Wisconsin regiments. He was famed at that time among his
townsmen for his physical strength and perfect health. As
many of the witnesses expressed it, he was one of the healthiest
men they ever saw. lie was with his regiment in the Army
of Virginia, and during the winter and spring of 1865 he contracted a disease and was in the hospital at Alexandria in
Virginia, suffering from what was thought to be dumb ague,
or fever and ague, as stated by some of the witnesses. le
came back to his home in Wisconsin, after his discharge in
August, 1865, badly shattered in health, sickly in appearance,
and to such an extent as scarcely to be recognized by some of
his former friends. His complexion and color were bad. lie
seemed to have no strength in hi legs, walked in a trembling
way, and seemed unable to do any hard work. (There is
some difference of opinion among the witnesses as to the
extent of his sickness when he came from the army.) Some
time in the spring or early summer of 1866 or 1867 he
suffered from a stroke of paralysis, resulting in the almost
complete loss of the use of one side of his body, and affecting
his speech and to some extent his mind. From that time

LALONE v. TNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Cour.

until the time of the trial of this case he has suffered without intermission and with scarcely any improvement. In
making his application for a pension in 1880 he claimed that
this paralysis was the result of his experience in the army and
of his exposure incident to army life and of the disease he
there contracted. So far the evidence is substantially uncontradicted. There is, however, a conflict in regard to the immediate
cause of the paralysis. Two witnesses upon the part of the
government, who were boys at the time of the alleged occurrence, testified that they saw the defendant thrown from his
wagon while driving along the road, and it is claimed that
immediately or soon thereafter the paralysis appeared. It is
claimed that the evidence on the part of the government
shows that before this accident he had exhibited no signs of
any paralysis, and that lie had been fairly capable from the
time of his return from the army up to the time of the accident
to attend to the work on his farm like any other man of his
age. Other witnesses for the government testified to the
general speech of people at that time that Lalone had been
thrown from his wagon and had received severe injuries,
resulting in paralysis, from which he never recovered. On
the other hand, the individual defendants denied the occurrence of any such alleged accident, contradicted the evidence
of the government's witnesses as to its happening, and gave
evidence tending to show that soon after his return from the
army Lalone suffered a slight paralytic stroke, and that he
was unable to do the ordinary work of the farm from the
time of his return, and that in the spring of 1866 he sustained
the last stroke, from the effects of which he never recovered,
and was then suffering.
Upon a careful perusal of the evidence we think it clearly
appears that Lalone was not able to work on his farm from
the time of his return as he had been accustomed to work
before his departure for the army. Many years have elapsed
since those events, and it is not strange that witnesses differ
somewhat as to Lalone's condition when he returned, or as to
the first appearance of the paralysis with which lie is unquestionably afflicted, and under which he has suffered and been

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

almost helpless for nearly thirty years. Whether' it was the
direct result of his army life and the disease there contracted,
or the direct and immediate result of the alleged accident,
seems to be the chief subject of conflict in the evidence of the
witnesses.
It is unnecessary and it would serve no good purpose for us
on this occasion to go into an extended and minute review of
the evidence given- on both sides of this case. It has been
read with great care, and the most that can be said is that
after a careful perusal of all of it there are some circumstances shown which might raise a doubt, as to whether the
last stroke of paralysis did not occur immediately or soon
after the alleged accident. We are not entirely satisfied from
the evidence that the accident in truth occurred in the manner
and to the extent as testified to by the witnesses who spoke
in regard to it, and who were quite young boys at the time
they alleged that it happened, which was almost thirty years
before the time they testified. But even if we were satisfied
from the evidence that the accident took place as described
by these witnesses, we should still feel that the case on the
part of the government had not been made out with that
clearness which is requisite in order to base a finding of fraud.
It is not and cannot be disputed that Lalone went to the army
a healthy man and came back very greatly altered and to all
appearance a very sick man. It is uncontradicted that while
in the army he suffered from some very grave and enervating
fever, and that he was treated for it in the hospital at Alexandria. The medical witnesses called on the part of the
government themselves admit that paralysis might supervene
more readily in the case of one who had materially suffered
from some disease and who had not recovered from its effebts,
such as fever and ague, than it might in the case of a healthy
maan, or, as one of them said, "just to the extent that his
vital forces were depressed by the disease under which he
suffered he would be just that much less able to withstand
sickness or injury, and that, therefore, an iujtiry which
might not have resulted with a perfectly well person in such
injury to the brain as to cause paralysis .might be followed

JORDAN MINING CO. 10, SOCItTI

DES M]INES,

261

Syllabus.

with such result more readily in the case of a man who had
suffered from a previous illness and was still laboring under
its depressing effects." In the latter case, while the blow or
accident might be the direct, immediate cause of the paralysis;
yet the prior physical condition of the subject caused by illhealth and exposure in the army and the sickness which he
endured while in the hospital in Virginia from which he was
then suffering, might fairly be regarded as a concurring cause
of such paralysis. It could not be said to be a fraud, at any
rate, under such a state of facts for the defendant to claim
that his paralysis was caused by his sickness in the army.
It may be somewhat doubtful as to what was the immediate
cause of the paralysis from which the defendant suffered and
from which he is now suffering and probably will suffer to
the end. That he is almost completely helpless and has been
all these years is not doubted. The trial court in the opinion
delivered by it only went so far as to say that on the whole it
was satisfied that the government had a preponderance of evidence that the pension was obtained fraudulently and that the
money paid on it should be recovered back. This mere preponderance, as we have seen, is not sufficient in such a case.
The decree in favor of the government must, therefore, be
lievermed, and the case remanded to tke Circuit Court with
directions to dismiss the bill.

OLD JORDAN MfINING AND MILLING CO. v.

SOOIETE ANONYME DES MINES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 71. Argued October 27, 1896.-

Decided November 30, 1896.

The only error urged in the court below, or noticed in its opinion, and
which, consequently, can be considered here, goes to the insufficiency of
the proof of the contract set up in the complaint, in which this court finds

no error.

