CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.

BEAR LAKE AND RIVER WATER WORKS AND
IRRIGATION COMPANY v. GARLAND et al.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 48.

Argued May 6, 1296. -

Declded October 19, 1896.

On the 16th of August, 1889, a statute was In force in the Territory of Utah
providing for the creation of mechanic's liens for work done or materials furnished under contracts in making improvements upon land; but,
In order to enforce his lien a contractor was required, within 60 days
after completion of the contract, to file for record a claim stating his
demand, and describing the property to be subjected to it; and no such
lien was to be binding longer than 90 days after so filing, unless proper
proceedings were commenced within that time to enforce it. On that
day G. contracted with an irrigation company to construct a canal for it
in Utah. He began work upon it at once, which was continued .until
completion, December 10, 1890. He claimed, (and it was so established,)
that, after crediting the company with sundry payments, there was still
due him over $80,000, for which amount he filed his statutory claim on
the 23d day of the same December. On the 1st day of October, 1889,
the company mortgaged its property then acquired, or to be subsequently
acquired, to a trustee to secure an issue of bonds to the amount of $2,000,000, the proceeds of which were used in the construction of the company's
works, including the canal. On the 12th of March, 1890, the legislature
1
VOL. CLXIV-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.
of Utah repealed said statute, and substituted other statutory provisions
in its place, and enacted that the repeal should not affect existing rights
or remedies, and that no lien claimed under the new act should hold the
property longer than a year after filing the statement, unless allaction
should be commenced within that time to enforce it. On the 1st day of
May, 1890, 0. contracted with the company to do work on its canal, and
did the work so contracted for. The balance due G. not having been
paid, he brought an action to recover it, making the company, the mortgage trustees, and C. defendants, which action was commenced more
than 90- days after the filiug of his claim. To this suit 0. replied, setting up his mechanic's lien. The court below made many findings of
fact, among which were, (29th,) that the right of way upon which the
canal was constructed was obtained bv the company under Rev. Stat.
§ 2339 ; and, (33d,) that the work done by G. and C. respectively had been
done with the consent of the company after its entry into possession bf
the land. Exception was taken to the 29th filnding as not supported by
the proof. The court below gave judgment in favor of both G. and C.,
establishing their respective liens upon an equality prior and superior
to the lien of the mortgage trustees. Held:
(1), That this court will not go behind the findings of fact in the trial
court, to inquire whether they are supported by the evidence;
(2), That G.'s action was commenced within the time required by the
statutes existing when it was brought;
(3), That the judgment of the court below thus. establishing the respective liens of G. and of C. was correct.
Aielause in a mortgage which subjects subsequently acquired property to
its lien is valid, and extends to equitable as well as to legal titles to'such
property.
Under Rev. Stat. §§ 2339, 2340, no right or title to land, or to a right of way
over or through it, or to the use of water from a well thereafter to be
dug, vests, as against the government, in the party entering upon possession, from the mere fact of such possession, unaccompanied by the performance of labor thereon; and, as the title in this case did not pass
until the ditch was completed, the mortgage was not a valid inctumbrance
until after the liens of G. and of C. had attached, and will not be held.
to relate back for the purpose of effecting an injustice.
The act.of March 12, 1890, is to be construed as a continuation of the act In
force when the Garland contract was made, extending the time in which
an action t6 foreclose its lien should be commenced; and, as this was done
before the time came for taking proceedings to effect a sale under the
lien, it was not an alteration of the right or the remedy, as those terms
are used in the statute.

THE appellants appealed from a judgment of 'the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Utah, affirming a judgment of the
District Court of the First Judicial District of the Territory

BEAR LAKE IRRIGATION CO. v. GARLAND.

3

Statement of the Case.

in favor of the respondents, William Garland and Corey
Brothers & Company.
The action was brought by the plaintiff, William Garland,
against the Bear Lake Company, the Jarvis-Conklin Mortgage
Trust Company, as trustees, Corey Brothers & Company, and
others, for the purpose of enforcing an alleged mechanic's lien
in favor of the plaintiff, and against the Bear Lake Company,
for work done by the plaintiff for that company in the construction of its canal from its initial point- the Bear River
caion -for a distance of twelve miles on both sides of the
river. The complaint alleged that on the 16th of August,
1889, the plaintiff and the Bear Lake Company entered into a
contract for the construction by plaintiff of the portion of the
work above mentioned, and under that contract the plaintiff
commenced work on the 31st of August, 1889, and continued
it to and including December 10, 1890. Various payments on
account of the work were made the plaintiff, and, after crediting the same, the plaintiff alleged there was still due him from
the Bear Lake Company, at the time of filing his claim for a
lien, (December 23, 1890,) the sum of $80,250.50, and interest
thereon, as set forth in the complaint. The Jarvis-Conklin
Mortgage Trust Company and Corey Brothers & Company
and the other defendants were made parties to the action as
subsequent mortgagees or other incunibrancers. The answer
of the Mortgage Trust Company set up the fact that it was
the mortgagee in a mortgage executed by the Bear Lake Company to it as trustee on the first day of October, 1889, to
secure the payment of $2,000,000 of the bonds of the mortgagor company, and that such mortgage covered all the water
rights, franchises, lines of canal and other property upon the
whole or any part of which the plaintiff claimed a lien, and
that the mortgage also by its terms covered all after-acquired
property of every kind. The mortgage was duly recorded in
Box Elder County, Utah, November 14, 1889; in Bear Lake
County, Idaho, December 24, 1889 ; in Weber County, Utah,
February 6, 1890. The bonds secured by the mortgage were
all delivered between October 1, 1889, and February 1, 1891,
and in large part paid for, and the balance was to be paid for

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

by drafts drawn upon the Mortgage" Company by the treasurer of the Bear Lake Company as fast as the money was
needed to pay for the construction of the works. At the
time the plaintiff Garland entered into the contract already
mentioned and when he commenced work thereunder, the
statutes of Utah provided for a mechanic's lien, under the provisions of which a contractor within sixty days after the completion of his contract was to file for record with the county
-recorder a claim stating his demand, and giving a description of the property to be subjected to the lien. By § 3814,
s. 1065, no lien provided for by the chapter upon liens was to
bind any of the property longer than ninety days after the
claim was filed, "unless proceedings be commenced in a proper
court within that time to enforce the same." 2 Compiled Laws
of Utah, 1888, 406, from § 3806 to and including § 3820. The
answer further set up the fact that while the above act was
in force, and on the 12th of March, 1890, the legislature of
Utah passed an act in relation to mechanic's liens, and section
32 thereof repealed the former and above-mentioned lien act,
but added the following proviso: "Provided, that the repeal
'of said acts or parts of acts, or any of them, shall not affect
any right or remedy, nor abate any suit or action or proceeding existing, instituted or pending under the laws hereby
repealed."
The answer then set forth that the plaintiff did not commence his action to enforce his lien within the ninety days
given by the act in force when the- work was commenced
under the contract, and therefore the lien no longer existed at
the time the action was commenced to enforce it.
The answer of Corey Brothers & Company was in 'the
'nature of a.cross complaint, and set up the fact that they
entered into a contract with the Bear Lake Company on the
first of May, 1890, to construct certain portions of the canal
of the company, and that between such date and the fifth of
December, 1890, they did the work provided for in the contract, and on the seventh of January, 1891, they filed their
claim for a lien for the balance of the money. due them under
the contract, (which was about eleven thousand dollars,) and

BEAR LAKE IRRIGATION CO. v. GARLAND.

5

Argument for Appellants.

they asked for a decree enforcing their lien as a prior incumbrance to that of the mortgage upon the property of the Bear
Lake Company.
The Bear Lake Company set up the same facts as a defence
against the plaintiff's cause of action that were alleged by the
Mortgage Trust Company, and it answered the claim of Corey
Brothers & Company by alleging that the mortgage to the
Mortgage Trust Company bad been executed and duly recorded, and was in existence long before and at the time of
the execution of the agreement which Corey Brothers & Company made with the Bear Lako Company, and that, therefore,
the lien of Corey Brothers & Company was subsequent and
subject to the lien of the mortgage upon the after-acquired
property of the Bear Lake Company.
No question arises with reference to the other defendants.
The case came on for trial upon the issues thus found, and,
the court, after hearing the evidence, gave judgment in favor
of plaintiff and of Corey Brothers & Company establishing
their liens, respectively, upon an equality, and making them
prior and superior to the lien of the Mortgage Trust Company
byt reason of its mortgage, and decreeing the sale of the property to satisfy such liens. Garlandv. Bear lake Irrigation
Co., 9 Utah, 350.
.Mr. John F. Dillon, (with whom was .Mr.Harry Tu bba?;d
and .Mr. Henry . Beardsley on the brief,) for appellants.
I. As to Garland's claim.
(a) Whatever right to a lien and remedy Garland may have
had, at least as against the Jarvis-Conklin Mortgage Trust
Company, existed only under §§ 3806 to 3S20 inclusive of
the Compiled Laws of Utah, 1888. Those statutes required
him to bring his action within ninety days from the time of
filing his claim for a lien. He did not bring his action until
long after the ninety days had expired, and thus permitted
his right and remedy to lapse, and neglected to obtain a lien.
(b) He can have no lien under the act of March 12, 1890,
prior to the lien. of the mortgage. The mortgage was made

OCTOBER, TERM, 1896.
Argument for, Appellants.

October 1, 1889. It was recorded in. November and December, 1889, and February, 1890. The mortgage, therefore,
was made and recorded, and was an existing lien on March
12, 1890. It is clear, therefore, that the act of March 12,
1890, could not displace this existing lien of the mortgage or
give any other lien priority over it. If, therefore, Garland
looks to the act of March 12, 1890, for his lien, he must fail,
for that act could not give him any lien prior to the lien of
the mortgage. Wabash & 'ie Canal Co. v. Beers, 2 Black,
448 ; Atarray v. Gibson, 15 How. 421 ; United States v. Ileth,
3 Cranch, 399; Mo Ewen v. Den, 24 how. 242.
It follows, therefore, that for the labor and material furnished by Garland prior to March 12, 1890, he can have no
lien by virtue of the act of that date, and that the mortgage
to the Jarvis-Conklin Mortgage Trust Company is prior to any
lien which is or can be given to him by the act of March 12,
1890, whether it be for work done prior to March 12, 1890, or
for work done after that date. In other words, if the right
of Garland to a lien and a remedy therefor depend upon the
act of March 12, 1890, he can have no lien: prior to the
mortgage.
The principle of law is well settled that in case a statuto
creates a right or liability not known to the common law, and
provides a remedy for the enforcement of such right or liabiliV, and limits the time within which the remedy must be pursued, the remedy forms a part of the right or liability and
must be pursued within the time prescribed or the right and
remedy are both lost. Boyd v. Clark, 8 Fed. Rep. 849; Finnell v. Southern Kansas Railway, 33 Fed. Rep. 427; Halsey
v. .JcLean, 12 Allen, 438; T/ie Earrisburg,119 U. S. 199.
It is also well settled law that in case a repealing statute
provides that the right and the remedy under the statute repealed shall not be affected, the repeal leaves both the right
and the remedy unaffected, and any person in order to avail
himself of the right must pursue the remedy prescribed, and
within the time prescribed by the repealed statute. Wilkerso v. Hudson, 71 Mississippi, 130; Cochran v. Taylor, 13
Ohio St. 382; Gilleland v. Schuyler, 9 Kansas, 569; Wright

BEAR LAKE IRRIGATION CO. v. GARLAND.

'

Argument for Appellants.

v. Oakley, 5 Met. (Mass.) 400; Fitzpatrick v. Boylan, 57 N. Y.
433.
II. As to Corey Brothers & Company's claim.
Corey Brothers & Company have no lien prior to the mortgage for the reason that their contract was not made until May
1, 1890, and they did not begin work until after that time;
whereas the mortgage to the Jarvis-Conklin Mortgage Trust
Company was made October 1, 1889, and recorded in November and December, 1889, and February, 1890: The Supreme Court of Utah was mistaken both as to the facts and
as to the application of law. The attorney for the JarvisConklin Mortgage Trust Company excepted to finding 29 as.
follows: "The court erred as to finding of fact 29, for the
reason that there is no evidence in this case upon which to
base the said, facts there stated, nor any one of them. The
evidence does not support such finding, and there is no pleading .upon which to base the same."
It is well settled that a mortgage can be made of afteracquired property and that the mortgage thus made and recorded has priority over any lien which is subsequent in
point of time. Galveston Railroadv. Cowdrey, 11 -Wall. 459;
Tailby v. Official Receiver, 13 App. Cas. 523; -Holroyd
v.
Marshall, 10 H. L. Cas. 191 ; Pennock v. Coe, 23 How. 117;
MAqCaff'rey v. Woodin, 65 N. Y. 459; Phillips v. Phillips, 4
DeG., F. & J. 208.
The theory of the Utah court that, although the mortgage
covered after-acquired property, yet the parts of the property
on which Corey Brothers & Company did their work did not
come into existence until such labor was performed, and that
therefore they were entitled to a lien prior to the mortgage, is
not tenable, for the reason that the equity of the mortgagee is
at least equal to that of Corey Brothers & Company, and their
mortgage was long prior in time. The mortgage was made
in October, 1889, and recorded in November and December,
1889, and February, 1890, and bonds were issued and large
sums of money advanced under the mortgage, including sums
which went to pay Garland for his work, at least amounting
before May 1, 1890, to $386,318.98, all which was long prior

OCTOBER TER-f, 1896.
Argument for Appellants.

to May 1, 1890, when Corey Brothers & Company began to
perform their labor. This prior making of the mortgage and
actual advancing of the moneys created an equity, which was,
.to say the'least, equal to that of Corey Brothers & Company.
The .Bear Lake Company had title to water rights and
rights of Way by appropriation long before the contract with
Corey Brothers & Company. The court, however, is clearly
in error in supposing that as to government land the Bear
Lake Company did not have property rights in their canal
before the work was performed thereon by Corey BrQthers &
*Company, Long before Corey Brothers & Company made
their contract or did any work the company had begun the
construction of its canal. Garland, who performed the largest
part of the labor in constructing the canal, began his work
so-long prior thereto as August 31, 1889. The route of the
canal had beenselected and work had been done thereon by
Garland long prior to May 1, 1890. The Bear Lake Company
were clearly the owners before May 1, 1890, of all.parts of the
canal on which work had thus been done prior to that date,
and on those parts clearly Corey Brothers & Company were,
even on the theories advanced by the Supi'eme Court of Utah,
entitled to no lien.
In the case of Sutlivan v. 2irorthern Spy -Mining Co., 11
Utah, 438, a question arose under Rev. Stat. § 2339, whether in
case a person entered upon the public lands of the United
States and dug a well, the right of such person to the use of
the waters of such well thus acquired by possession. was superior to the right of the person who afterwards purchased the
land-from the United States. The question turned on whether
the right to enter upon land for the purpose of digging a well
was a right recognized and acknowledged by the "local customs, -laws and decisions of courts" of Utah ; and the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Utah held that it was, and that the
person who thus entered upon the land and du& the well had
a right to the use of its waters prior to the right of the person
-who afterwards purchased the land. The court held that the
provisions of § 2780 of the Compiled Laws of Utah of 1888
applied. It is clear, therefore, that, "under the laws*and cus-

BEAR LAKE IRRIGATION CO. v. GARLAND.

9

Argument for Appellants.

toms and decisions of the courts of Utah," the Bear Lake
Company acquired a property right in its water rights and
right of way long prior to May 1, 1890.
The following authorities show that in the case of an appropriation of water or water rights, or rights of way therefor the
ditch or canal or other work need not be fully completed in
order to secure the priority given and recognized by Rev.
Stat. § 2339 and by the laws and customs of the Pacific States.
It is sufficient if the work has been begun and is being prosecuted with due diligence. Kelly v. I 7atoma 1W"ater Company,
6 California, 105; Dyke v. Caldwell, 18 Pac. Rep. 276; Irwin
v. Strait, 18 Nevada, 436.
If the Bear Lake Company was not the owner, then Corey
Brothers & Company had no right to the lien under the provisions of the act of March 12, 1890.
In the case of .Nelson v. Clerf, 4 Washington, 406, the court
held that; under the statute of Washington, which, in this
respect, is not substantially different from the statute of Utah,
a mechanic's lien cannot be enforced against a working company for the construction of its ditch, unless it appears that
the company owns or has an interest in the land through
which the ditch is constructed. See Tritch v. i'or&tn, 10
Colorado, 337, to the same effect.
Corey Brothers & Company entered upon the land and did
their work under and in privity with the Bear Lake Company
Which had long prior thereto made and recorded its mortgage
Corey
to the Jarvis-Conklin Mortgage Trust Company.
Brothers & Company therefore entered with full notice of the
mortgagre, and, being in privity with the Bear Lake Company,
are bound by the estoppel created by the mortgage.
Even on the theory advanced by the Supreme Court of Utah,
that if the lands over which the Bear Like Company constructed its canal were public lands, and if, further, the Bear
Lake Company did not acquire title to such public lands until
after Corey Brothers & Company began their work, still the
decision of the court was erroneous, for the reason that this
theory would apply only in the case of lands over which the
canal was constructed which were public lands, and on which

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Corey Brothers & Company did their work, and the route of
the canal was, according to the finding of the court, only in
part over public lands. The judgment of the court, therefore,
even on its own theory, should, at the most, have been limited
to giving a lien to Corey Brothers & Company as respects the
public lands over which the canal was constructed by them,
but the lien could not attach to even this part for the reason
that the statutes of Utah, act of March 12, 1890, make no provision for a lien upon a part of a canal or other work.
-lLr. Sanford B. Iadd, (with whom was MAr. John C. Gage
on the brief,) for Garland, appellee.
.hlt. Arthur Brown for Corey Brothers & Company, appellees.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM,

after stating tle case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The contest in this case lies between the plaintiff and the
firm of Corey Brothers & Company on the one hand and the
Mortgage Trust Company on the other. The former demand
priority of lien for their respective claims over that of the
mortgage held by the Mortgage Trust Company upon the
property of the Bear Lake Company.
It will be convenient to separately examine these claims.
First. As to the plaintiff's alleged lien. At the time when
the- plaintiff entered into his contract and commenced work
under it the lien law of 188S was in force, one of the sections
of which, § 3810, s. 1061, provided that the lien mentioned in
the act, was to be preferred to any other which might attach
subsequently to the time when the building, improvement, or
structure was commenced, work done, or materials were comimenced to be furnished. As the work of the plaintiff under
his contract was commenced on.the 31st of August, 1889, and
continued up to December, 1890, while the mortgage to the
Mortgage. Trust Company was not executed until October,
1889, it is conceded by the counsel for the latter company
that if the plaintiff had complied in all respects with the pro-

BEAR LAKE IRRIGATION CO. v. GARLAND.

11

Opinion of the Court.

visions of the act of 1888, and had commenced his action to
enforce his lien within ninety days from the time when'he
filed his claim for a lien, (December 23, 1890,) his action could
have been maintained and his lien would have had priority.
Inasmuch, however, as he failed to commence his action
within the time mentioned, it is insisted that the lien had
then expired by the express provisions of the act of 1888,
§ 3814. The plaintiff makes answer to this objection by
citing § 21 of the act of the 12th of March, 1890, which reads
as follows:
"SEc. 21. No lien claimed by virtue of this act shall hold
the propel ty longer than one year after filing the statement
firstly described in section 10, unless an action be commenced
within that time to enforce'the same."
This action was commenced within one year after filing the
statement of the plaintiff's claim, and he therefore insists that
it was commenced in time, and that his lien should have priority. In that contention he is met by the claim of the Mortgage Company that the section referred to does not affect the
plaintiff's case, as the contract between him and the Bear
Lake Company was entered into and a large amount of the
work was done under it prior to March, 1890, and wh.e the
act of 1888 was in force, and that by the express termin of
the proviso in § 32 of the act of 1890 the repeal of the ont
of 1888 did not affect any right or remedy, nor abate any
suit or proceeding existing, instituted or pending under the
laws thereby repealed.
The terms of the act of 1890 are thus cited as a limitation
of the plaintiff to the provisions of the act of 1888. If plaintiff be thus confined he cannot maintain this action, as he did
not commence it until some time after the expiration of the
ninety days from the date of filing his claim.
Upon comparing the two acts of 1888 and 1890 together, it
is seen that they both legislate upon the same subject, and in
many cases the provisions of the two statutes are similar and
almost identical. Although there is a formal repeal of the
old by the new statute, still there never has been a moment of
time since the passage of the act of 188S when these similar

OCTOBER TERMf, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

provisions have not been in force. Notwithstanding, therefore, this formal repeal, it is, as we think, entirely correct to
say that the new act should be construed as a continuation
of the old with the modification contained in the new act.
This is the same principle that is recognized and "asserted in
Steamship Co. v. Jolif'e, 2 Wall. 450, 459. In that case there
was a repeal in terms of the former statute, and yet it was
held that.it was not the intention of the legislature to thereby
impair the right to fees which had arisen under the act which
was repealed. As the provisions of the new act took effect
simultaneously with the repeal of the old one, the court held
that the new one might more properly be said to be substituted in the place of the old one, and to continue in force, with
modifications, the provisions of the old act, instead of abrogating or annulling them and reenacting the same as a new and
original act.
It is true that the law in the Jolffe ca,.se did not contain
any saving of or provision for the rights and remedies of the
pilot, but the foundation of the reasoning by which the court
concluded that the new should be treated as a continuation of
the old statute, with modifications, did not rest alone upon this
omission. It was chiefly based upon the facts above stated:
the similarity.of the subjects-matter of the two statutes, and
that the effect was a continuation of the old statute as modified by the new, notwithstanding the use of language which
formally repealed the old statute.
The omission to provide for the rights of the pilot does not,
therefore, detract from the authority of the case for the purpose for which it is here cited.
The two acts in question, here are of a similar nature, relating to the same general subject-matter, and making provisions
for the creation and enforcement of mechanic's liens. The new
act of 1890, although in terms repealing the earlier act, is yet
in truth, and for the reasons already given, a continuation of
that act with the modifications as provided in the new one.
One of those modifications is the extension of the time in
which to commence the actiom to foreclose the lien after the
filing of the statement which claims it. Where at the time of

BEAR LAKE IRRIGATION CO. v. GARLAND.

13

Opinion of the Court.

the passage of the new act the proposed lienor has only entered
upon the execution of his contract and has not yet completed
the work under it, we think that at least as to him the'provision enlarging the time in which to commence the action to
foreclose the lien is applicable, and there is no retroactive
effect thereby given to that provision of the new act.
It may be asked what effect is given -under this construction to the language of the proviso contained in § 32 of the
act of 1890, already quoted. The answer is that the mere
enlargement of the time in which to commence the action', at
least in a case where the time had not yet arrived in which to
file any statement of the plaintiff's claim for a lien, does not
affect any right or remedy provided for in the old act. The
right, as that term is used in the statute, consisted of the right
of sale of the property in order, if necessary, to obtain payment of the money due the contractor. The remedy consisted
of the taking of certain proceedings by which this sale was to
be accomplished. Prior to the arrival of the time when one of
these steps was to be taken an alteration of the statute by
which the time to take that step might be enlarged was not an
alteration of the right or of the remedy, as those terms are
used in the statute, nor did it in any way affect either; it was
simply an alteration of the mere procedure in the course of
an employment of a remedy, the remedy itself remaining
untouched or unaffected by such alteration. In this case such
an enlargement of time to commence an action was .given
before the time had arrived in which the action could have
been commenced under the old statute. The new statute was
prospective in its operation,. even as applied to this case. Of
course, if the new act had curtailed the time in which to bring
the action, after the time had commenced to run under the
old statute, totally different considerations would spring up, and
what was a mere. alteration of procedure, having really nothing to do with a remedy in the one case, might, in the other,
most seriously affect it, and hence come within the proviso in
question. Under the facts of this case the right or remedy of
the plaintiff was not touched, or, in the language of the proviso, was not "affected" by the enlargement of the .time in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

which to commence 'the action,, and therefore the proviso did
not take the plaintiff's case out of the application of the section
in the new act providing such enlarged time.
Under the construction given by us to the act of 1890, as a
continuation of that of 1888, with modifications, the question
as to which adt the lien is claimed under is not specially
material.. ,.Tn effect, it is one act, and those labors, etc., which
wereperforL ed before the passage of the act of 1890 are added
to those perormed thereafter. The lien is really claimed by
virtue of the fact that at the time when the contract was
entered into Ihe statufe of Utah provided such a right or
remedy, and although the action to foreclose the lien was
commenced under the provisions of the act of 1890, yet the
right itself commenced under the old act. That right is not
affected by any provision of the new act, and although it is
claimed that the right and the remedy must go together under
the old act, as they are preserved by the same language, yet,
for the reasons already given, the time in which to commence
the action is no part of the remedy as that word is used in the
proviso, and an extension of that time may be provided for in
the new act without in any way affecting the right or remedy
of the lienor where the facts are the same as in this case.
It may be assumed that where a statute creates a right not
known to the common law, and provides a remedy for the
enforcement of such right, and limhits the time within which
the remedy must be pursued, the remedy in such case forms
a part of the right, and must be pursued within the time prescribed, or else the- right and remedy are both lost; but it
does not, therefore, follow that the plaintiff's right to a lien
and to maintain this action must be based solely upon the act
of 1888.
We must bear in mind the position of the plaintiff when the
act of 1890 was passed. He had not then completed his dontract and could not therefore file any statement of claim, nor
could he commence any action. The particular time in which
he would be allowed to commence his action (provided a sufficient time in fact were given) was, under such circumstances,
mere matter of procedure as distinguished from remedy. The

BEAR LAKE IRRIGATION CO. v. GARLAN D.

15

Opinion of the Court.

remedy would not thereby be altered, because the remedy
consisted -in filing the statement and. in commencing the
action. The time in which to do either would be matter of
procedure only. Hence, when the act of 1890 was passed,
which enlarged the time in -which to commence the action
already provided for, such- enlargement did not affect any
right or remedy of the plaintiff. It did not affect either,
because the.provision applied only to procedure and not to
right or remedy, and therefore the plaintiff could avail himself of the time given him by the act of 1890 in which to commence his action as one of the steps in procedure by which
the remedy Tor a violation of the contract by the enforcement
of foreclosure of the lien would be accomplished.
We conclude that the lien of the plaintiff was valid and
superior to the mortgage of the Mortgage Trust Company.
Second. We are of the opinion also that the claim of Corey
Brothers & Company for a lien superior to that of the Mortgage Trust Company was properly allowed. That company
claims a superiority of lien because of the clause in its mortgage by which the Bear Lake Company mortgaged to it, in
addition to the property then owned by the Lake Company, all
its after-acquired property.
A clause in a mortgage which subjects subsequently acquired
property to the lien of the mortgage is a valid clause. Toledo,
.Delphos &c. Railroad v. flamilton, 134 U. S. 296; Central
Trust Co. v. Eneeland, 138 U. S. 414; Galveston Railroadv.
Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459, 481.
Such a mortgage, as against the mortgagor and subsequent
incumbrancers, attaches itself to the after-acquired property
as fast as it comes into existence, or as fast as the canal or
railroad is built, and the lien of the mortgagee is held to be
superior to that of the constructor. The lien of the mortgage
extends also to an equitable as well as to a legal title to the
property subsequently acquired. 13 and 138 U. S., supra.
The company claims that under the principles decided in
these cases the lien of its mortgage is superior to the claim of
Corey Brothers & Company.
On the contrary, the latter claim to bring their case within

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the rule recognized in this court, that even under the afteracquired property clause in a mortgage, if property be burdened with an incumbrance or lien at the very time of coming
into the possession or ownership of the mortgagor, such incumbrance remains prior and superior to the lien of the mortgage, although it was actually subsequent thereto in point of
time. Utnited States v. New Orleans Railroad,12 Wall. 362;
Fa9dick v" Schall, 99 U. S. 235, 251.
Some further facts are material to this inquiry, and have
been found by the court below. The work done by Corey
Brothers &. Company is set forth in findings 19 and 23 as
made by the trial court. It consisted of work and labor and
the furnishing of materials in the construction of the canal
from May 1 to December 5, 1890. The canal was constructed
on land over which the company had what is termed in the
finding the right of way. The land is described in the nineteenth finding, and the manne in which the right of way was
acquired is set forth in finding 29, which reads as follows:
"The right of Way upon which the canal was constructed,
which right of 'Way is described in the finding 19, consisted
largely of public land, and was obtained by the defendant, the
Bear Lake and River Water Works and Irrigation Company,
under and by virtue of the act of Congress of 1866, being section -, Revised Statutes of the United States. A large portion
of said right of way was obtained under contract with one
Kerr, by which Kerr agreed, upon, the construction of said
canal through his land, to give said right of way. The other
portions of said canals were purchased by the Bear Lake
Company at various times from individual proprietors after
May 1, 1890."
The section of the Revised Statutes above referred to is
section 2339, and it is taken from the ninth section of the
act of Congress, c. 262, approved July 26, 1866, 11 Stat. 253,
which reads as follows:
"Whenever, by priority of possession, rights to the use of
water for mining, agricultural, manufacturing or other purposes have vested and accrued and the same are recognized
and acknowledged by the local customs, laws and the deci-

BEAR LAKE IRRIGATION CO. v. GARLAND.

17

Opinion of the Court.

sions of courts, the possessors and owners of such vested rights
shall be maintained and protected in the same; and the right
of way for the construction of ditches and canals for the purposes herein specified is acknowledged and confirmed: Pro.vided, however, That whenever after the passage of this act
any person or persons shall, in the construction of any ditch
or canal, injure or damage the possession of any settler on the
public domain, the party committing such injury or damage
shall be liable to the party injured for such injury or damage."
Congress subsequently passed another act, approved July 9,
1870, c. 235, entitled "An act to amend an act granting the
right of way to ditch and canal owners over the public lands
and for other purposes." 16 Stat. 217, 218.
Section 17 of that act is section 2340 of the Revised Statutes,
and part of the section reads as follows:
"SFxo. 17. None of the rights conferred by sections five,
eight and nine of the act of which this is amendatory shall
be abrogated by this act, and the .same are hereby extended
to all public lands affected by this act; and all patents granted
or preemption or homesteads allowed shall be subject to any
vested and accrued water rights or rights to ditches and reservoirs used in connection with such water rights, as may have
been acquired under or recognized by the ninth section of the
act of which this act is amendatory."
The trial court made one other finding of fact, (the thirtythird,) by which it was found that the work done by Garland
and by Corey Brothers & Company was done for the Bear
Lake Company, which company, with the consent of the
owners of the legal title, entered into possession of the land
through which the canal ditches were dug, and then after so
entering into possession the company consented to and permitted the plaintiff Garland and also Corey Brothers & Company to do the work under their contracts with the company
in digginig and excavating the canal.
The counsel for the Mortgage Company excepted to the
twenty-ninth finding of the court, on the grounds, 1st, that
there was no evidence upon which to base the finding; 2d, the
evidence did not support the finding; 3d, there was no pleadVOL. cLxIv-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

ing upon which to base the same. This exception as to the lack
of evidence to support the findings we cannot consider, and
we think that the objection as to the pleading is not well
taken.
Upon appeal from the Supreme Court of a Territory this
court is precluded under the statute from reviewing any question of fact, and the finding of the court below is conclusive
upon this court as to all such questions. The jurisdiction of
this court on such an appeal, apart from exceptions duly taken
to rulings on the admission or rejection of evidence, is limited
to determining whether the findings of fact support the judgment. Stringfelw v. Cain, 99 U. S. 610; Teslin v. Fells,
104 U. S. 428; Eilers v. Boatman, 111 U. S. 356 ; .daho and
Oregan Land Co. v. Bradbury, 132 U. S.509; MHammoth .Xining Co. v. Salt Lake ifachine Co., 151 U. S.447, 450.
The findings of the trial court -are approved and adopted
by the Supreme Court of the Territory by a general judgment
of affirmance. i eslin v. Jfrells, szura.
W.6 must, therefore, in the examination of the question now
under consideration be confined to the facts as found by the
trial court, approved as they have been by the general affirmance of the judgment by the Supreme Court of the Territory.
So far as the public land is concerned, over or through
which these ditches for the canal were dug, the statutes above
cited create no title, legal or equitable, in the individuar or
company that simply takes possession of such land. The government enacts that any one may go upon its public lands for
the purpose of procuring water, digging ditches for canals,
etc., and when rights have become vested and accrued which
are recpgnized and acknowledged by the local customs, laws
and decisions of courts, such rights are acknowledged and confirmed. Under this statute no right or title to the land, or to
a right of way over or through it, or to the use of water from
a well thereafter to be dug, vests, as against the government,
in the party entering upon possession from the mere fact of
such possession unaccompanied by the performance of any
labor thereon.
Undoubtedly rights as against third persons are acquired

BEAR LAKE IRRIGATION CO. v. GARLAND.

19

Opinion of the Court.

by priority of possession, and the government will and does
recognize such rights as between those parties. This is the
principle running through the -cases cited by the counsel for
appellants. In Sullivan v. ffrortherr .Spy M ining Co., 11 Utah,
438, which is one of those cases, the priority of possession of
the person who entered upon the public land and dug the well
was recognized as thereby making a superior title to the use
of the water from the well over that acquired by a persort who
was the subsequent purchaser of the land from the government. In that case the well had been dug and the condition
fulfilled. If no well had ever been dug, and a reasonable time
for digging it had passed, the merepriority of possession would
have given no superior title to the land over that acquired by
the grantee from the government. It is the doing of the
work, the completion of the well, or the digging of the ditch,
within a reasonable time from the 'taking of possession, that
gives the right to use the water in the well or the right of
way for the ditches of the canal upon or through the public
land. Until the completion of this work, or, in other words,
until the performance of the condition upon which the right
to forever maintain possession is based, the person taking
possession has no title, legal or equitable, as against the government. What, if any, equitable claims a party might have
upon the government who did a large amount of work, but
finally failed to complete the necessary amount to secure the
water or right of way, it is not necessary to determine or discuss. Those equities would not, in any event, amount to an
equitable title to the right of way or to the use of the water,
and so need not be here considered.
The Bear Lake Conpany, therefore, never had any legal or
equitable title to the land over or through which the ditch for
the canal was dug, as against the government, until the ditch
was completed. As the ditch was completed by the labor of
the contractor, and the very title of the mortgagor thereto
was itself created by his labor, the lien attached to the property as it was created and came into being, and arose coinci(lent with the ownership of the ditch by the mortgagor, and
the property came into the hands of the mortgagor burdened

OCTOBER TERIM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

with this lien, whic h remains superior to that of the mortgage.
The point is that the mortgagor never. had any claim or title,
of a legal or equitable nature, to the land upon which this work
was done during the whole time that the work wa§ going on,
and when the title did thereafter vest in the Bear Lake Company by virtue of the work done by Corey Brothers & Company, it became burdened with the lien 'created by virtue of
the work so done upon it. If prior to the doing of the work
the Bear Lake Company had simply purchased the land, or
entered into any such agreement with the owner thereof as
gave it an. equitable title to the same, then the property
would not have come to the Bear Lake Company burdened
with any lien, and the work thereafter done upon it in the
shape of digging the ditch, etc., would not have giten ground
for any priority of lien as against the mortgage of the Trust
Company.
The material fact to remember is that the sole title to the
land or the right of way, which the Bear Lake Company has,
whether legal or equitable, is transferred to that company only
by virtue of the work previously done upon the land by the
constructors, who thereby fulfil the condition upon the performance of which such transfQr or the right of such transfer
depended. Under these circumstances it is proper to say that
the title to the land was transferred subject to the constructors'
lien for the work which made the transfer possible and 'by
means of which it was accomplished. The claim is also urged
that, even upon the theory of the appellees, the title to the
portion of the land or right of way upon which Garland the
plaintiff had worked had .passed to the Bear Lake Company,
and had come under the lien of the mortgage before any work
was done by the Corey Brothers & Company firm, and as to
that portion of the work the claim, is made that the firm could
have no lien prior to the mortgage. The fact is that at the
time when the firm commenced work in May, 1890, the plaintiff
Garland had not completed his work, and did not complete it

until along in December following. The title had not therefore passed to the Bear Lake Company when Corey Brothers
& Company commenced their work.

BEAR LAKE IRRIGATION CO. v. GARLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

Nor is there any priority given to the mortgage as claimed
by the appellants by reason of the provision contained in
that portion of § 19 of the act of 1890, which reads as
follows:
"All such liens shall relate back to the time of the cornmencement to do work or to furnish materials and shall have
priority over any and every lien or incumbrance subsequently
intervening, or which may have been created prior thereto,
but which was not then recorded, and of which the .lienor
under this act had no notice. Nothing herein contained shall
be construed as impairing any valid incumbrance upon any
such land dily made and recorded before such work was commenced, or the first of such materials were furnished."
The very question in issue is whether the mortgage was a
valid incumbrance upon any after-acquired land prior to these
liens. Inasmuch as the title to the right of way'did not pass
until the completion of the work, we hold the mortgage was
not a valid- incumbrance upon such right of way until that
time, and that the title came to the Bear Lake Company burdened with the lien claimed by the lienor which attached to
the property at the very moment of and simultaneously with
the vesting of such title in the company and in priority.to the
lien of the mortgage.
This principle is in entire harmony with that laid down in the
already cited cases of Galveston Pailroadv. Cowdrey, 11 Wall.
and Toledo, Delphos &e. Railroadv. Hamilton, 134 U. S., and
with the cases therein referred to. In neither of the abovementioned cases did the title to the property come into the
hands of the company burdened with any lien. MIost of the
property in the first above-cited case came to the company
before any work was done, and a small portion only was purchased by it after the work was done, and it was held that the
lien of the mortgage upon the property as after acquired was
superior to that of the constructor who did the work. His
work did not transfer the title or create the condition upon
which the vesting of the title could take place in the mortgagor, and consequently there was no basis for the claim that
the property came to the mortgagor burdened with the lien.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

In the Toledo case the- dock was built upon property to which
the mortgagor had a good equitable title .and which was
covered by the mortgage, just the same a if the title were a
legal one, and it was held that the dock became subject to th.e
lien of the. mortgage as prior and superior to any lien of the
mechanics for construction. It was urged in that case that at
the time the mechanic's lien was claimed to have been created,
the legal title to the property sought to be affected was not in
the railroad company, but was in one George W. Ballou, and,
therefore, the mortgage of the property by the railroad company created no legal lien, and although by the decree of
foreclosure the legal title was transferred to the mortgagor,
yet it was transferred subject to the burden of the mechanic's
lien. The court held that the mortgagor had the equitable
title to the property before foreclosure, and that the mortgage
given by the mortgagor covered property to which it had an
equitable title as well as property to which it had a legal title.
In the case at bar the mortgagor never had any title at all,
legal or equitable, until after the work had been performed
by the constructors, and only then by virtue and through the
means of such work.
This case bears great similarity to that of Bot8fo'd v. iYew
Raven, Middletown &c. Railroad, 41 Connecticut, 454, the
prinbiple of which case was approved in Toledo &c. Railroad
v. familton, supra. The mortgage executed by the company
in the Connecticut case covered after-acquired property.
After the execution of the mortgage it entered into an agreement with the owner of land by which the owner agreed to
thereafter convey the land to the company upon condition
that the depot of the company should be established therebn
and other things done in connection therewith. The court
held that the agreement amounted to a conditional sale, and
that no title to the property passed to -the railroad company
unless and until it performed the conditions. Hence it was
held that the lien acquired by the constructor of the depot,.
who was employed by the railroad company for that purpose,
attached to the land, and that when- the title subsequently
came to the railroad company by reason of the performance

BEAR LAKE IRRIGATION CO. v. GARLAND.

23

Opinion of the Court.

of the conditions by it, the land came burdened with the lien
upon it in favor of the constructor of the depot, and such
lien was therefore superior to the lien of the mortgage.
It is said that in any event the title which finally vested in
the Bear Lake Company by virtue of the completion of the
work, as claimed by the respondents, relates back to the time
when possession of the land over which the right of way existed
was first taken, and that such possession was taken by the
Bear Lake Company prior to any work being done by either
the plaintiff Garland or by the defendants Corey Brothers &
Company, and the title thus became subject to the lien of the
mortgage before the work was done by the lienors. This doctrine of relation, by which it is claimed that the lien of the
mortgage attached to the right of way prior to the lien of the
constructor, is a fiction only. It is indulged in for the purpose
of thereby cutting off intervening adverse claims of third
parties against the right or title set up and acquired by the
first possessor. It will not be indulged in for the purpose of
thereby effecting an injustice by subjecting the right of way
to the prior lien of a mortgage, when the existence of the title
to the right of way in the Bear Lake Company was -made possible only after and by the labor of the lienors. In such case
the actual fact will be considered and not the fiction.
It is also said that the mortgagee occupies a position superior
in equity to that of the Corey firm because the mortgage 'as
executed and on record a long time before the firm did any
work upon the ditches, and it must have known, or at any rate
notice from the record will be imputed to the".firm, that the
mortgage lien was in existence. The answer to this position
is that under the law as above stated, the firm knew that prior
to the completion of the work by it, the Bear Lake Company
would have no title and the mortgage would not be a lien
upon the property, and that when the work was completed the
title would pass to the Bear Lake Company burdened with
the lien of the firm, and such lien would be superior to that
of the mortgage. To one occupying the position of these lienors,
the mortgage was not in existence. Upon the same principle
the mortgagee would know that it could acquire no lien on

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

this property superior to that of the lienors, and that the title
to the property created by the lienors would come to-the Bear
Lake Company burdened with their lien. It is plain that in
this light the equity of the lienors is superior to that of the
mortgagee, and their lien should, if possible, be preferred.
The general principle upon which the lien of Corey Brothers
& Company upon the right of way over the public lands is
claimed as being prior to that of the mortgage, also ap.plies to
and covers the case of the land procured by the Bear Lake
Company from Kerr, and mentioned in the foregoing twentyninth finding of fact. It was a conditional gift by Kerr to
the company of the. right of way, to take effect and be
valid upon the construction of the canal through the lands of
Kerr. As to the portion of the land which was obtained by
purchase by the Bear Lake Company at various times from
individual proprietors after lay 1, 1890, the finding is too
-general upon which to predicate error calling for a reversal of
the whole judgment. The party alleging error should clearly
show it, and where it is of a kind that ought not to carry a
reversal of the whole judgment because of it, he should in -that
case show the amount of- the error and the extent to which it
affected the judgment. Here the case is barren of any finding as to the extent of the purchase from private individuals
and whether the purchases were made prior to the work being
done or after the same had been performed. Interpreting the
thirtieth finding of the court upon this subject as being one of
fact, we should say the purchase was not fully accomplished
nor was the title finally transferred until after the work had
been done. The thirtieth finding is as follows: "All the right
of way of the Bear Lake and River Company, as described in
finding 19, was acquired by said Bear Lake and River Water
Works and Irrigation Company after the mechanic's lien of
the'plaintiff William Garland and the mechanic's lien of the
defendants Corey Brothers & Company attached to the same."
The appellants criticise this finding as a conclusion of la'w. It
is made by the court as one of fact, and it may be there is
some. matter of fact mixed with a legal conclusion. At any
rate, the whole matter is left in some uncertainty as to the

BEAR LAKE IRRIGATION CO. v. GARLAND.

25

Opinion of the Court.

exact facts relating to the purchase of the right of way after
M[ay 1, 1890, and as to the extent of such purchases from individuals, and as to the conditions upon which' the purchases
were made.
They may have been made under such circumstances as to
bring them directly within the principle of the case last cited.
If so, the lands would be subject to a lien to the same extent
as the lands otherwise acquired.
We will not in such case indulge in any presumptions unfavorable to the judgment and for the purpose 6f reversing it,
unless they are natural and probable and such as ought to be
drawn from the facts actually found by the court below. We
do not find this to be the case here.
As another answer to the claim of Corey Brothers & Company, the appellants assert that if the Bear Lake Company
were not the owner of the right of way over or through the
public lands or lands of Kerr, or of the other individuals, until
after the completion of the work, then of course it was not
owner thereof at the time when the contract with Corey
Brothers & Company was entered into, and in that case they
would be entitled to no lien under the act of March 12, 1890.
The -first section of that act provides "that whoever shall
do. work or furnish materials by contract, express or implied,
with the owner of any land, to any amount," shall be entitled
to a lien. The same'section also provides that for the purposes
of the act "any person having an assignable,, transferable
or conveyable interest or claim in or to any land, bilding,
structure, or other property mentioned in this act, shall be
deemed an owner."
We think the Bear Lake Company was -such an owrier as
comes within the meaning of the statute of 1890, providing
for a lien. "Although without a legal or an equitable title
until the work was done, yet the Bear Lake Company, when
the work was completed, became such owner, and in the mean
time and after the execution of the contract with Corey
Brothers & Company and with the plaintiff Garland it occupied such a position with regard to the property as brings it
within the equity of the statute for the purpose of the lien for

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

work done, and we think such lien when the work was completed and the statement of claim filed was superior to the
lien of the mortgage,
Our conclusion is that the whole judgment should be
Affrmed.

AMERICAN ROAD IACHINE COMPANY v. PENNOOK AND SHARP COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE oIROUIi COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 27. Argued March 30, 31, 1S96. -Decided

October 19, 1890.

Letters patent No. 331,920, issued to George W. Taft, December 8, 1885,
for a machine for making, repairing and cleaning roads, dre void, if not
for anticipation, for want of invention in the patented machine.

IN equity. Decree dismissing the bill.
The case is stated in the opinion.

Plaintiffs appealed.

X..FrederickP. Fish for appellant. -Yr.
son was on his brief.

. Z R. ichard-

&. 1. 1. Bond for appellees. .Mq. A. ff. Adams, Mr.
C. E. Pickard and _Zr. J. L. Jackson were on his brief.
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was a bill for infringement of claims four, ten, eleven
and thirteen of letters patent No. 331,920, issued to George W.
Taft, December 8, 1885, for a "machine for making, repairing
and cleaning roads."
The defences were want of patentable novelty; anticipation;
and non-infringement. On hearing, the Circuit Court, held by
Judge Butler, entered a decree dismissing the bill. 45 Fed.
Rep. 252.

