OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

BUSHNELL v. LELAND.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.

No. 491. Argued December 14,15, 1896. -Decided January 4, 189T.
It has been repeatedly settled, by this court that the Comptroller of the Cur- rency has-power to appoint a receiver to a defaulting or insolvent national bank, and to call for a ratable assessment upon the stockholders
of such bank, without-a previous judicial ascertainment of the neceqsity
for such, action; and the contention that there is presented in this -case
a constitutional question not considered in the prior cases is an assumption with no foundation in fact.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.Xr.John J. Crawford for plaintiff in errror.
Mr. Frederii T. Rolden and -Mr.Edward Win8ow Paqe
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the.opinion of the court.

The pfaintiff in error being a stockholder in the State
National Bank of Wichita, Kansas, was sued to enforce payment of the double liability imposed by law. The pleadings
aver -the existence of the legal prerequisites to the stockholder's liability, viz., the subscription by defendant to the
stock, the due organization of and the authority conferred on
the bank to engage in business, the suspension, the valid appointment of a receiver, and a ratable asgessment made by the
Comptroller on the stockholders in conformity to law. Revised Statutes, ยง 5151, 5234.
At the trial objection vas taken and reserved to the offering
in evidence of the assessment made by the Comptroller of the
Currency, and upon the close of the testimony, the ground of
this objection was reiterated by way of exception to the refusal of the court to give the following instruction:
"Counsel for the defendant then moved the court to in-

BUSHNELL v. LELAND.
Opinion of the Court.

struct the jury to return a verdict for the defendant, upon the
ground that there is no evidence in the case to show that the
action is brought for the purpose of enforcing any claim or
lien of the United States; that, so far as appears from the
evidence, the individual liability of the defendant as a stockholder of the State National Bank of Wichita is sought to be
enforced merely for the purpose of paying the claims of private parties; that there is no evidence in this case to show
that such parties are creditors of the, State National Bank of
Wichita, and there is no evidence to show that the fact that
these parties are creditors 'of the State National Bank of
Wichita has ever been established by any decision or order of
a court of competent jurisdiction; that, so far as appears, the
only decision on this point is that of the Comptroller of the
Currency, and that his decision is of no force, for the reason
that itis an attempt of an executive officer to exercise judicial
functions."
A verdict was returned in favor of the plaintiff, and to the
judgment thereon this writ of error is prosecuted.
The assignments of error are based solely on the grounds
covered by the exception taken to the introduction of testimony, the refusal to charge, as above stated, and- to an asserted want of jurisdiction in the court below. All these
alleged errors may be reduced to the single contention that
under the national banking law the Comptroller of the Currency is without power to appoint a receiver to a defaulting
or insolvent national bank, or to 'all for a ratable assessment
upon the stockholders of such bank, without a previous judicial ascertainment of the necessity for the appointment of the
receiver and of the existence of the liabilities of the bank, and
that the lodgment of authority in the Comptroller, empowering him either to appoint a receiver.or to make a ratable call
upon the stockholders, is tantamount to vesting that officer
with judicial power in violation of the Constitution. All of
these contentions have been long since settled, and are not
open to further discussion. Efennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 408;
Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673; United States v. Xnox, 102
U. S. 422. When, after the adjudication in Eennedy v. Gib-

686"

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the questions were for a second time pressed in argument,
the court contented itself with calling attention to the fact
that they had been affirmatively adjudicated upon and were
concluded. We see no reason now to reopen controversies
which were then treated as concluded and have since been
approved and in all respects fully affirmed. The contention
that there is now presented in argument a grave constitutional
question, which was not pressed or considered in the prior
cases, is a mere assumption which has no foundation in fact.
A casual inspection of the points pressed by counsel in 0aey
v. Galli makes evident the fact that the very arguments now
advanced were then urged upon the court and held to be
untenable.
Judgment affirmed.
80n,

UNITED STATES AND THE SIOUX NATION 'v.
NORTHWESTERN EXPRESS STAGE AND TRANSPORTATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No.218.

Submitted1Iecember 7,1896.-Decided January4, 1897.

A corporation organized under the laws of a State is a citizen of the United
States within the meaning of that term as used in the act of March 3,
1891, c. 538, concerning claims arising from Indian depredations.'

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assis8tant Attorney General Howry and Mr. Alexander

Porter orcse for appellants.
Mr. John B. Sanborn, Mr. Charle8 king and Mr. William
B. King for appellees.
MR.JusTIcE

WHrrE delivered the opinion of the couvf

This-appeal was taken from a judgment of the Court of
Claims awarding to the appellees the sum of seven hundred

