OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court wholly depended upon
the parties being citizens of different States.
The complaint, alleging-that the plaintiff was a citizen of
Illinois and the defendant a citizen of New York, and claiming damages in a sum of more than $2000, showed that the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the case by reason of the
parties being citizens of different States. The plaintiff, in her
complaint, did not claim any right under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, or in any way mention or refer to
that Constitution or to those laws; and, at the trial, she relied
wholly upon a right given by the common law, and maintained
her action upon such a right only. It was the defendant, and
not the plaintiff, who invoked the Constitution and laws of
the United States. This, as necessarily follows from the foregoing considerations, and as was expressly adjudged in Colorado C(o. v. Turck, above cited, is insufficient to support the
jurisdiction.of this court to review, by appeal or writ of error,
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The jurisdictioi of the Circuit Court having been obtained
and exercised solely. because of the parties being citizens of
different States, the judgment of tie Circuit Court of Appeals
was final, and the writ of error must be

Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

TIE UNITED STATES FOR

THlE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 355. Argued January 23, 24, 21, 1896.

Decided November 16,1696.

In a suit, brought in a Circuit Court of the United States by an alien
against a citizen of the State in which the court sits, claiming that an
act about to be (lone therein by the defendant to the injury of the plaintiff, under authority of a statute of the State, will be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States, and also in violation of the constitution of the State, the Federal courts have ju-isdiction of both classes of
questions; but, in exercising that jurisdiction as to questions arising

FALLBR00K IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

113

Syllabus.
under the state constitution, it is their duty to be guided by and follow
the decisions of the highest court of the State; (1), as to the construction of the statute; and (2), as to whether, if so construed, it violates
any protision of that constitution. Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall.
655, shown to be in harmony with this decision..
The statute of California of March 7, 1887, to provide for the organization
and government of irrigation districts, and to provide for the acquisition of water and other property, and for the distribution of water
thereby for irrigation purposes, and the several acts amendatory thereof
having been clearly and repeatedly decided by the highest court of that
State not to be in violation of its constitution, this court will not hold
to the contrary.
Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 104, cited and affirmed to the point
that "whenever by the laws of a State or by state authority a tax,
assessment, servitude or other burden is imposed upon property for the
public use, whether it be for the whole State or of some more limited
portion of the community, and those laws provide for a mode of confirming or contesting the charge thus imposed, in the ordinary courts of
justice, with such notice to the person, or such proceeding in regard to
the property as is appropriate to the nature of the case, the judgment in
such proceedings cannot be said to deprive the owner of his property
without due process of law, however obnoxious it may be to other
objections."
There is no specific prohibition in the Federal Constitution which acts
upon the States in regard to their taking private property for any but
a public use.
What is a public use, for which private property may be taken by due process of law, depends upon .the particular facts and circumstances connected with the particular subject-matter.
The irrigation of really arid lands is a public purpose, and the water thus
used is put to a public use; and the "statutes providing for such irrigation are valid exercises of legislative power.
The land which can be properly included in any irrigation district under
the stAtutes of California is sufficiently limited to arid, unproductive
land by the provisions of the acts.
Due process of law is furnished, and equal protection of the law given in
such proceedings, when the -course pursued for the assessment and collection of taxes is that customarily followed in the State, and when the
party who may be charged in his property has an opportunity to be
heard.
The irrigation acts make proper provisions for a hearing as to whether the
petitioners are of the class mentioned or described in them; whether
they have complied with the statutory provisions; and whether their
lands will be benefited by the proposed improvement. They make it the
duty of the board of supervisors, when landowners deny that the signers
of a petition have fulfilled tie requirements of law, to give a hearing or
hearings on that point. They provide for due notice of the proposed
VOL. CLXIV-8

OCTOBER TERI, 1896.
Statement of the Case.
presentation of a petition; and that the irrigation districts when created
in the manner provided are to be public corporations with fixed boundaries.- They provide for a general scheme of assessment upon the property included within each district, and they give an opportunity to the
taxpayer to be heard upon the questions of benefit, valuation and assessment; and the question as to the mode of -reaching the results, even if
in some Qales the results are inequitable, does not reach to the level of a
Federal constitutional problem. In all these respects the statutes furnish due process of law, within the meaning of that term as used in
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.

THIS was an appeal from the United States Circuit Court
for the Southern District of California. The case is reported
in 68 Fed. Rep. 948. The action was commenced in that
court by defendants in error, the plaintiffs below, for the purpose of procuring an injunction restraining defendant Tomlins,
the collector of the irrigation district, from. giving a deed to
it of the premises belonging to plaintiff, Mrs. Bradley, based
on a sale of her land made by the collector for the non-payment of a certain assessment upon such lands under the act
incorporating the irrigation district, and to set aside such
assessment, and for other relief.
The following, amiong other facts, were set up in the plaintiffs' second amended bill in equity: The plaintiffs are aliens
and subjects of Great Britain, residing in San Diego County,
California. The irrigation district is a corporation organized
pursuant to the laws of California, and doing business at Fallbrook, San Diego County. Matthew Tomlins was the collector of the corporation at the time of the commencement of
the suit, and it has been doing business as and claims to be a
corporation under "An act providing for the organization and
government of irrigation districts, and to provide for the
acquisition of water and other property, and for the distribution of water thereby for, irrigation purposes," approved
March 7,1887, as such act has been since amended.
The original act, which is commonly known as the Wright
Act, and was so cited by counsel in their arguments, was enacted on the 7th of March, 1887, and will be found in the
laws of California, at page 29. It contained 47 sections.
Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4 were amended by an act of March 20,

FALLBIROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

115

Statement of the Case.

1891, Laws of 1891, page 142, so as to read as in that act set
forth.
Sections 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 stand as originally enacted.
Section 10 was amended by the act of February 16, 1889,
Laws of 1889, page 15, so as to read as in that act set forth.
Sections 11 and 12 were amended by the said act of March
20, 1891, so as to read as in that act set forth.
Sections 13 and 14 stand as originally enacted.
Section 15 was amended by another act of 'March 20,
1891, Laws of 1891, page 147, so as to read as in that act
set forth.
Section 16 remains as originally enacted.
Section 17 was amended by the act of March 11, 1893,
Laws of 1893, page 175, so as to read as in that act set forth.
Section 18 was amended by the act of March 21, 1891,
Laws of 1891, page 2141, so as to read as in that act set forth.
Sections 19, 20 and 21 remain as originally enacted.
Section 22 has been twice amended: (1) by the said act of
February 16, 1889, Laws of 1889, page 15: (2) by the said
act of March 20, 1891, Laws of 1891 page 147. It now
stands as so amended in 1891.
Section 23 was amended by said act of March 20, 1891,
Laws of 1891, page 147. It now reads as in that act set
forth.
Sections 24, 25 and 26 were amended by the act of
March 21, 1891, Laws of 1891, page 244. They now read as
in that act set forth.
Section 27 of said act was amended by the act of February 16, 1889, Laws of 1889, page 15. It now reads as so
amended.
Sections 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34 stand as originally
enacted.
Section 35 was amended by said act of March 20, 1891,
Laws of 1891, page 142. It now reads as so amended.
Sections 36, 37, 38, 39, 40 and 41 stand as originally enacted.
Section 42 was amended by the act of March 20, 1891,
Laws of 1891, page 142. It now reads as so amended.
Sections 43, 4, 45, 46 and 47 have not been changed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

The material sections of the act, as amended by the other
acts just stated, are set forth in the miargin herein.'
The legislature also passed two acts, approved February
16, 1889, called, respectively, th "Inc l u sion" and the "Exclusion" act, by which means were piovided, in the first
1 ,SEC. 1. Whenever fifty, or a majority of the holders of title or evidence of title, to lands susceptible of one mode of irrigation from a common source and by the same systeni of works, desire to provide for the
irrigation of the same, they may propose the organization of an irrigation
district, under the provisions of this act, and when so organized such district shall have the powers conferred, or that may hereafter be conferred,
by law upon such irrigation districts. The equalized county assessment
roll next preceding the presentation of a petition for the organization of an
irrigation district, under the provisions of this act, shall be sufficient evidence of title for the purposes of this act.
"SEC. 2. A petition shall first be presented to the board of supervisors
of the county in which the lands, or the greatest portion thereof, is situated, signed by the required number of holders of title, or evidence of title,
of such proposed district, evidenced as above provided, which petition shall
set forth and particularly describe the proposed boundaries of such dis-trict, and shall pray that the same may be organized under the provisions
of this act. The petitioners must accompany the petition with a good and
sufficient bond, to be approved by the said board of supervisors, in double
the amount of the probable cost of organizing such district, c9nditioned
that the bondsmen will pay all the said costs in case said organization shall
not be effected. Such petition shall be presented at a regular meeting of
the said board, and shall be published for at least two weeks before the
time at which the same is to be presented, in some newspaper printed and
published in the county where said petition is presented, together with a
notice stating the time of the imeeting at which the same will be presented;
-and if any portion of such proposed district lie within another county or
counties, then said petition and notice shall .be published in a newspaper
published in each of said counties. When such petition is presented, the said
board of supervisors shall hear the same and may adjourn such hearing from.
time to time, not exceeding four weeks in it..; and on the final hearing may
make such changes in the proposed boundaries as they may find to be proper,
and shall-establish and define such boundaries: Prorided,That said board shall
not modify said boundaries so as to except from the opbration of this act any
territory within the boundaries of the district proposed l)y said petitioners
which is susceptible of irrigation by the same system of works applicable
to the other lands iusuch proposed district; nor shall any lands which will
not, in the judgment of the said board, be benefited by irrigation by said
.system be included within such district: Porided, That any person whose
iands are susceptible of irrigation from the same source may, in the discretion of the board, upon application of the owner to said board, have such

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

117

Statement of the Case.

named act, for including lands within an irrigation district
which had not been included in the petition when first presented to the board of supervisors; and in the second named
act, for excluding from a district already formed some portion
of the land which then formed part of such district. An
lands included in said district. Said board shall also make an order dividing said district into live divisions, as nearly equal in size as may be practicable, which shall be numbered first, second, third, fourth and fifth, and
one director, who shall be a freeholder in the division and an elector and
resident of the district, shall be elected by each division: Prorided, That if
a majority of the holders of title, or evidence of title, evidenced as above
provided, petition for the formation of a district, the board of supervisors
may, if so requested in the petition, order that there may be either three or
five directors, as said board may order, for such district, and that they may
be elected by the district at large. Said board of supervisors shall then
give notice of an election to be held in such proposed district, for the purpose of determining whether or not the same shall be organized under the
provisions of this act. Such notice shall describe the boundaries so established, and shall designate a name for such proposed district, and said
notice shall be published for at least three weeks prior to such election in a
newspaper published within said county; and if any portion of such proposed district lie within another county or counties, then said notice shall be
published in a newspaper published within each of said counties. Such
notice shall require the electors to cast ballots which shall contain the
words ' Irrigation District- Yes,' or ' Irrigation District- No,' or words
equivalent thereto, and also the names of persons -o be voted for to fill the
various elective offices hereinafter prescribed. No person shall be entitled.
to vote at any election, held under the provisions of this act, unless lie shall
possess all the qualifications required of electors under the general election
laws of this State.
"Sc. 3. Such election shall be conducted as nearly as practicable in
accordance with the general laws of this State : Provided, That no particular form of ballot shall be required. The said board of supervisors shall
meet on the second Monday next succeeding such election, and proceed to
canvass the votes cast thereat, and if upon such canvass it appear that at
least two-thirds of all the votes cast are ' Irrigation District-Yes,' the
said board shall, by an order entered on its minutes, declare such territory
duly or:ganized as an irrigation district, under the name and style theretofore designated, and shall declare the persons receiving, respectively, the
highest number of votes for such several offices to be duly elected to such
offices. And no action shall be commenced or maintained, or defence made,
affecting the validity of the organization, unless the same shall have been
commenced or made within two years after tel making and entering of
said order. Said board shall cause a copy of such order, duly certified, to
be immediately filed for record in the office of the county recorder of each

OCTOBER TERAT, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

examination of those acts does not become material in this
case.
The plaintiff, Mrs. Bradley, is the owner of certain real
estate described in complainants' bill, which is included within
county in which any portion of such lands are situated, and must also inmediately forward a copy thereof to the clerk of the board of supervisors
of each of the counties in which any portion of the district may lie; and
no board of supervisors of any county, including any portion of such district, shall, after the date of the organization of such district, allow
another district to be formed including any of the lands in such district,
without the consent of the board of directors thereof; and from and after
the date of such filing, the organization of such district shall be complete,
and the officers thereof shall be entitled to enter immediately upon the
duties of their respective offices, upon qualifying in accordance with law,
and shall hold such offices respectively until their successors are elected and
qualified. For the purposes of the election above provided for, the said
board of supervisors must establish a convenient number of election precincts in said proposed district, and define the boundaries-thereof, which
said precincts may thereafter be changed by the board of directors of such
district. In any di'strict the board of directors thereof may, upon the presentation of a petition therefor, by a majority of he holders of title or
evidence of title of said district, evidenced as above provided, order that
on and after the next ensuing general election for the district there shall
be either three or five directors, as said board may order, and that they
shall be elected by the district at large, or by divisions, as so petitioned and
ordered; and after such order such directors shall bd so elected."
(Sections 4 to 10, inclusive, provide for the election of officers of the
company and for their giving bonds, and are not material here.)
'Src. 11. On the first Tuesday in "Iarch next following their election,
the board of directors shall meet and organize as a board, elect a president
from their number and appoint a secretary, who shall each hold office during the pleasure of the board. The board shall have the power, and it shall
be their duty to manage and conduct the business and affairs of the district; make and execute all necessary contracts; employ and appoint such
agents, officers and employfs as may be required, and prescribe their
duties; establish equitable by-laws, rules and regulations for the distribution and use of water among the owners of said lands, and generally to
perform all such acts as shall be necessary to fully carry out the purposes
of this act. The said by-laws, rules and regulations must be printed in
convenient form for distribution in the district. And it is hereby expressly
provided that all waters distributed for irrigation purposes shall be apportioned ratably to each land owner upon the basis of the ratio which the last
assessment of such owner for district purposes within said district bears to
the whole sum assessed upon the district: Provided, That any land owner
may assign the right to the whole or any portion of the waters so apportioned to him.

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

119

Statement of the Case.

the lines of the irrigation district. The bill sets forth the
various steps taken under the irrigation act for the purpose of
forming the irrigation district, and it alleges the taking of
"Si c. 12. The board of directors shall hold a regular monthly meeting
ill their office on the first Tuesday in every month, and such special meetings as may be required for the proper transaction of business: Provided,
That all special meethigs must be ordered by a majority of the board. The
order must be entered of record, and five days' notice thereof must, by the secretary, be given to each member not joining in tile order. The order must
specify the business to be transacted, and none other than that specified
must be transacted at such special meeting. All meetings of the board
must be public, and three members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; but on all questions requiring a vote there shall be
a concurrence of at least three members of said board. All records of the
board shall be open to the inspection of any elector during business hours.
The board and its agents and employ~s shall have the right to enter upon
any land to make surveys, and may locate the necessary irrigation works
and the line for any canal or canals, and the necessary branches for the
same, on any lands which may be deemed best for such location. Said
board shall also have the right to acquire, either by purchase or condeinnaion or other legal means, all lands and waters and water rights, and other
property necessary for the construction, use, supply, maintenance, repair
and improvements of said canal or canals and works, including canals and
works constructed and being constructed by private owners, lands for
reservoirs for the storage of needful waters, and all necessary appurtenances. In case of purchase, the bonds of the district hereinafter provided for may be used at their par value in payment; and in case of
condemnation the board shall proceed, in the name of the district, under
the provisions of title seven of part three of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Said board may also construct the necessary dams, reservoirs and works
for the collection of water for said district, and do any and every lawful
act necessary to be done that sufficient water may be furnished to each
land owner in said district for irrigation purposes. The use of all water
required for the irrigation of the lands of any district formed under the
provisions of this act, together with the/rights of way for canals and
ditches, sites for reservoirs, and all other property required in fully carrying out the provisions of this act, is hereby declared to be a public use,
subject to the regulation and control of the State, inthe manner prescribed
by law."
(Sections 13 and 14 are not material.)
"Sc.
15. For the purpose of constructing necessary irrigating canals
and works, and acquiring the necessary property and rights therefor, and
otherwise carrying out the provisions of this act, the board of directors of
any such district must, as soon after such district has been organized a
may be practicable, and whenever thereafter the construction fund has

OCTOBER TERAI, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

all steps necessary therefor, including the election of officers
as provided in the act; that the board of directors submitted
to the electors the question, whether a special assessment for
been exhausted by expenditures herein authorized therefrom, and the board
decim it necessary or expedient to raise additional monby for said purposes,
estimate and determine the amount of money necessary to be raised, and
shall immediately thereafter call a special election, at which shall be submitted to the electors of such district possessing the qualifications prescribed by this act, the question whether or not the bonds of said district
in the amount as determined shall be issued. Notice of such election must
be given by posting notices in three public places in each election precinct
in said district for at least twenty days, and also by publication of such
notice in some newspaper published in the county where the office of the
board of directors of such district is required to be kept, once a week for
at least three successive weeks. Such notices must specify the time of
holding the election, the amount of bonds proposed to be issued; and said
election must be held, and the result thereof determined and declared in all
respects as nearly as practicable in conformity with the provisions of this
act governing the election of officers: Provided, That no informalities in
conducting such an election shall invalidate the same, if the election shall
have been otherwise fairly conducted. At such election the ballots shall
contain the words 'Bonds-Yes,' or 'Bonds-No,' or words equivalent
thereto. If a majority of the votes cast are IBonds-Yes,' the board of
directors shall cause bonds in said amount to be issued; if a majority of
the votes cast at any bond election are ' Bonds -No,' the result of such
election shall be so declared, and entered of record. And whenever thereafter said board in its judgment deems it for the best interests of the district that the question of issuance of bonds in sai1 amount, or any amount,
shall be submitted to said electors, it shall so declare of record in its
minutes, and may thereupon submit such questions to said electors in the
same manner and with like effect as at such previous election. . ..
(The remainder of the section provides for the maturing and payment
of the bonds, and is not material.)
(Section 16 is not material.)
"S1Ec. 17. Said bonds and the interest thereon shall be paid by revenue
derived from an annual assessment upon the real pr6perty of the district;
and all the real property in the district shall be and remain liable to be
assessed for such payments, as hereinafter provided.
."..
"SEc. 18. The assessor must, between the first Monday in March and
the first londay in June, in each year, assess all real property in the district
to the'persons who own, claim or have the possession or control thereof,
at its full cash value. He must prepare an assessment book, with appropriate headings, in which must be listed all such property within the district,
in which must be specified, in separate columns, under the appropriate head:
"First. -The name of the person to whom the property is assessed. If

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

121

Statement of the Case.

$6000 should be made for the purpose of defraying the expenses of organization, and that the electors approved of such
assessment and the proper proceedings were thereafter taken
the name is not known to the assessor, the property shall be assessed to
unknown owners.'
"1Second. -Land by township, range, section or fractional section, and
when such land is not a Congressional division or subdivision, by metes
and bounds, or other description sufficient to identify it, giving an estimate
of the number of acres, locality and the improvements thereon.
"Third. -City and town lots, naming the city or town, and the number
and block, according to the system of numbering in such city or town, and
the improvements thereon.
"Fourth. -The cash value of real estate other than city or town lots.
"Fifth.- The cash value of improvements on such real estate.
"Sixth. -The cash value of city and town lots.
"Seventh. -The cash value of improvements on city and town lots.
"Eighth. -The cash value of improvements on real estate assessed to
persons other than the owners of the real estate.
"Ainth. - The total value of all property assessed,
"Tenth. -The total value of all property after equalization by the board
of directors.
"Eleventh.-Such other things as the board of directors may require.
"Any property which may have escaped the payment of any assessment
for any year shall, in addition to the assessment for the then current year,
be assessed for such year with the same effect and with the same penalties
as are provided for such current year."
(Section 19 is not material.)
"SEC. 20. On or before the first Monday in August in each year, the
assessor must complete his assessment book and deliver it to the secretary
of the board, who must immediately give notice thereof, and of the time
the board of directors, acting as a board of equalization, will meet to equalize assessments, by publication in a newspaper published in each of the
counties comprising the district. The time fixed for the meeting shall not
be less than twenty nor more than thirty days from the first publication of
the notice, and in the meantime the assessment book must remain in the
office of the secretary for the inspection of all persons interested.
"SEC. 21. Upon the day specified inthe notice required by the preceding
section for the meeting, the board of directors, which is hereby constituted
aboard of equalization for that purpose, shall meet and continue in session
from day to day, as long as may be necessary, not to exceed ten days,
exclusive pf Sundays, to hear and determine such objections to the valuation
and assessment as may come before them, and the board, may change the
valuation as may be just. The secretary of the board shall be present
during its sessions and note all changes made in the valuation of property, and in the names of the persons whose property is assessed, and

OCTOBER TERIf, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

by which to assess the property owners, and that plaintiff's,
Mrs. Bradley's, assessment amounted to $51.31, which she
refused to pay because the act was, as alleged, unconstitutional and void.
The bill further states that the collector then proceeded to
enforce the collection by a sale of the land, and did sell it to
the irrigation district, but that no deed has been given to the
within ten days after the close of the session he shall have the total values,
as finally equalized by the board, extended into columns and added.
"SEc. 22. The board of directors shall then levy an assessment sufficient to raise the annual interest on the outstanding, bonds, and at the
expiration of ten years after the issuing of bonds of any issue must increase
said assessment to an amount sufficient to raise a sum sufficient to pay the
principal of the outstanding bonds as they mature. The secretary of the
board must compute and enter in a separate column of the assessment book
the respective sums, in dollars and cents, to be paid as an assessment on the
property therein enumerated. When collected, the assessment shall be paid
into the district treasury, and shall constitute a special fund, to be called
Irrigation District.' In case of the neglect or
the 'Bond Fund of refusal of the board of directors to cause such assessment and levy to be
made as in this act provided, then the assessment of property made by the
county assessor and the state board of equalization shall be adopted, and
shall be the basis of assessments for the district, and the board of supervisors of the county in which the office of the board of directors is situated
shall cause an assessment roll for said district to be prepared, and shall make
the levy required by this act, in the same manner and with the like effect
as if the same had been made by said board of directors, and all expenses
incident thereto shall be borne by such district. In case of the neglect or
refusal of the collector or treasurer of the district to perform the duties
imposed by law, then the tax collector and treasurer of the county in which
the office of the board of directors is situated must, respectively, perform
such duties, and shall be accountable therefor upon their official bonds as
in other cases.
"SEC. 23. The assessment upon real property is a lien against the property assessed from and after the first Mlonday in Mlarch for any year, and
the lien for the bonds of any issue shall be a preferred lien to that for any
subsequent issue, and such lien is not removed until the assessments are
paid or the property sold for the payment thereof."
(Sections 24 to 30,.inclusive, provide for collecting the assessments and
for the sale of the lands of those not paying, the giving of deeds upon such
sale, and for the redemption of the lands so sold and for the character of
the deed as to its being prima facie evidence, and in some cases conclusive
evidence of the regularity of the proceedings, and such sections and the
remainder of the act are not material to the present inquiry.)

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

123

Statement of the Case.

district by the collector, and an injunction is asked to restrain
the execution and delivery of any deed by such collector,
because of the alleged invalidity of the act under which the
proceedings were taken.
The bill also alleged a proposed issue of bonds to the
amount of $400,000, subject to the ddcision of the electors
at an election proposed to be held under the provisions of
the act.
Various reasons are set out in the bill upon which are based
the allegation of the invalidity of the act, among which, it is
stated, that the law violates the Federal Constitution in that
it amounts to the taking of the plaintiff's property without
due process of law. It is also stated that the act is in violation of the state constitution in many different particulars,
which are therein set forth.
The bill also asks that the assessment may be set aside and
all the proceedings declared void on the ground of the invalidity of the act itself.
The defendants dermurred to the first bill of the complainant and the demurrer was overruled. The complainants were
granted leave to serve a second amended bill to which the
defendants put in an answer, denying many of the material
allegations of the bill, and claiming the entire validity of the
act.
The case came on for hearing before the Circuit Jludge by
consent, upon the second amended bill of complainants, and
defendants' answer thereto, and the court gave judgment
a(ainst the defendants because of the unconstitutionality of
the irrigation act, it being, as held, in violation of the Federal Constitution, as the effect of such legislation by the State
was to deprive complainants of their property without due
process of law. The decision of the Circuit Judge was given
for the reasons stated by him in his opinion rendered upon
the argument of the demurrer to the bill of complainants, and
some of the facts stated in the bill and admitted by the
demurrer were denied in the answer subsequently served by
the defendants. The sole groflnd of the decision was, however, the unconstitutionality of the act, as above stated. From

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Citations for Appellants.

the judgment entered upon the decision of the Circuit Judge
the irrigation district appealed directly to this court by
virtue of the provisions of ยง 5, c. 517 of the Laws of 1891,
26 Stat. 826, which give an appeal from the Circuit Court
direct to the Supreme Court "in any case that involves theconstruction or application of the Constitution of the United
States"; and also "in any case in which the constitution or
law of a State is claimed tW" be in contravention to the Constitution of the United States."
The case was argued in this court with Tregea v. -Modesto
Irrigation-District,No. 13, post, 179.
Mr. A. L. -Rhodes (Mr. R. Percy Wright, -Mr. John 1.
Aitken and -Mr. Samuel . Smith were with him on his brief)
for appellaits. He cited Atchinson &c. Railroad v. Wilson,
33 Kansas, 923; Baltimore & Potomac Railroad v. Fifth
Baptist church, 137 U. S. 568; Burnett v. Sacramento, 12
California, 76; Hamilton Bank v. Dudley, 2 Pet. 492; Central Irrigation -Districtv..De _Lappe, 79 California, 351;
Crall v. Poso Irrigation-District,87 California, 140; Clement
v. Everest, 29 Michigan, 19; Chambers County v. Clews, ').
Wall. 317; Cleveland v. Trivp, 13 R. I. 50; K-entucky Railroad Taz cases, 115 U. S. 321; Coster v. Tide WVater Co., 3
C. E. Green, 54; Daily v. Swope, 47 Mississippi, 367; Dayton
Miing Co. v. Seawell, 11 Nevada, 408; Elmwood v. Marcy,
92 U. S. 289; Emery v. San Francisco Gas Co., 28 California,
345; East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co., 10 How. 511;
Gut v. Minnesota,9 Wall. 35; Hagarv. Reclamation District,
111 U. S. 701; -Lux v. Haggin, 69 California, 255; Madera
Irrigation District, 92 California, 296; Modesto Irrigation
District v. Tregea, 88 California, 334; -Mulliganv. Smith, 59
California, 206; .Mobile County v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691;
AMcMillan v. Anderson, 941 U. S. 37; Oury v. Dufleld, 1 Arizona, 509; Palmer v. M[icMahon, 133 U. S. 660; Pittsburgh
v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421 ; People v. Turnbull, 93 California,
630; People v. Selma IrrigationDistrict,98 California, 206;
People v. Hagar, 52 California, 171; Excelsior Planting Co.
v. Tax Collector, 39 La. Ann. 455; People v. Brooklyn, 4

FALLBROK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

123

Mr. Maxwell's Argumefit for Appellees.

N, Y; 419; Quint v. Hofman, 103 California, 506; Reclanation District v. Gray, 95 California, 601; Reclamation District v. Turner, 10- California, 334; Swamp Land Districtv.
Silver, 98 California, 53; Stockton & ligalia Railroad v.
Stockton, 41 California, 147; Spaulding v. North San Francisco .HomesteadAss'n, 87 California, 40 ; Spencer v. -Merchant,
125 U. S. 345; Tregea v. Owens, 94 California, 318; Turlock
Irrigation District v. Williams, 76 California, 360; Talbot v.
Hudson, 82 Mississippi, 422; Tide Tater Co. v. Coster, 3 C. E.
Green, 518; [Williams v. School District, 33 Vermont, 271;
Williams v. Detroit, 2 Michigan, 570; Wurtz v. floagland,
114 U. S. 606.
Mr. Benjamin Harrisonfor appellants.
Mr. Willian D. Guthrie and 31r. ClarenceA. Seward, by
leave of court, filed a brief on behalf of holders of bonds issued
under the irrigation laws of California.
.Mr. George H. 141axwell for appellees.
I. The broad question of the power of arid States to carry
out a state policy of irrigation is not involved here, and this
power will be unimpared, though the Wright Act be unconstitutional. Any State, by the exercise, within well-established
constitutional limitations, of its power of general taxation for
a public purpose, or of assessment for a local improvement
upon lands benefited, may provide for the irrigation of its arid
lands. Regents v. Williams, 9 G. & J. 365.
II. The Wright Act vested in self-constituted petitioners
power to determine the expediency, fix the boundaries and
thereby control the organization and operations of irrigation
districts, and without-a hearing to subject private property to
burdens of assessment amounting to confiscation, giving to communities power to assess without limit, and without any regard
to benefits, for an alleged public use, which is in fact private,
the one class of property selected to bear these burdens. No
law could so violate natural justice and constitutional rights,

OCTOBER TERMV,

1896.

Mr. M=xwell's Argument for Appellees.

and operate successfully. It is communism and confiscation
under the guise of law. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4t Wheat.
316, 428; Cullen v. Glendora Water Co., 39 Pac. Rep. 769.
III. Assessments for local public improvements are an exercise of the general power of taxation, but are controlled by
principles and constitutional limitations different from those
governing taxation for revenue for governmental purposes.
The principle that private property shall not be taken for
public use without just compensation, which limits the exercise
of the power of eminent domain, likewise limits this power of
assessment, because such assessments are levied in the exercise
of the sovereign power of the people to provide for the general
public welfare, and the only ground upon which their levy
upon specific property instead of upon the whole public can
be justified is that the property assessed is specially benefited,
and thus receives compensation for the burdens imposed upon
it. Illinois Central Railroad v. Decatur, 147 U. S. 190, 197;
.AcCulloch v. .Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 431; State v. Newark,
3 Dutcher, (27 N. J. Law,) 185; HZfadera case, 92 California,
296; Tide Water Co. v. Coster, 3 Green, (18 N. X. Eq.) 518;
Hammett v. Philadelphia,65 Penn. St. 146; In ie Wlashington
Avenue, 69 Penn. St. 352; In"re Xforewood Avenue, 159 Penn.
St. 20; Stuart v. Palmer,74 N. Y. 183; Raleigh v. Peace,110
N. Car. 32; Creighton v. Manson, 27 California, 613;, Wite
v. Saginaw, 67 Michigan, 33; Birmingham v. klein,' 89 Alabama, 461 ; Bridgeport v. ITV. Yorkc & .I. Haven Railroad,36
Connecticut, 255; Chteaney v. B'ooser, 9 B. Mlon. 330.
IV. The power of assessment for local public improvements
is based upon special benefits to the property assessed, and is
limited to property benefited by the improvement, and the
assessments must be apportioned according to benefits. Property not benefited by the improvement cannot be subjected to
assessments for its construction, and assessments cannot be
levied in excess of such. benefits. These limitations are the
law of the land, established by a long current of judicial decisions, resting upon fundamental principles of natural justice
and constitutional government. Under the Wright Act the
assessments are not based upon or apportioned according to

FA.TLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

127

Mr. Maxwell's Argument for Appellees.

benefits. Property not benefited'is assessed, and the burdens
of assessment are perpetual and not limited to benefits. j1ade.ra case, ubi sup. ; In re .MarketSt., 49 California, 546; Sharp
v. Speir, 4 Hill, 76; Macon v. Patty, 57 Mississippi 378, and
cases cited; Stuart v. Palmer,74 N. Y. 183; Canal Bank v.
Albany, 9 Wend. 244; In re William and Anthony Streets, 19
Wend. 678; In re Flatbush Ave., 1 Barb. 286; In re Morewood
Avenue, 159 Penn. St. 20; Allegheny City v. Western Penn.
Railroad,136 Penn. St. 375; Pittsburgh'sPetition,138 Penn.
St. 401; lae v. Fenosha, 29 Wisconsin, 599; Johnson v. Milwaukee, 40 Wisconsin, 315; Tide Water Co. v. Coster, ubi sup.
and cases cited; -ean v. Driggs Drainage Co., 16 Vroom, (45
N. J. Law,) 91; Reynolds v. Paterson, 19 Vroom, (48 N. J.
Law,) 435; State v. Kearney, 55 N. J. Law, 463; NArorfolk v.
Chamberlain, 89 Virginia, 196; Hanscom v. Omaha, 11 Nebraska, 37; State v. Ramsey County Court, 33 iMinnesota, 295;
People v. Brooklyn, 23 Barb. 175; Elwood v. Rochester, 43
Hun, 102; Clark v. Dunkirk,12 Hun, 181; .C. 75 N. Y. 612.
V. Benefits to justify assessment must be special, direct,
immediate and certain. Under the Wright Act, city and town
property, covered with buildings, and permanently devoted to
uses excluding the possibility ot irrigation, and lands and
property incapable of being irrigated, and all improvements
on any real property, which are required to be separately
assessed, are included in irrigation districts, and assessed for
the construction of an irrigation system from which they cannot derive any benefit except such uncertain possibility of collateral, indirect and remote advantage as might result from
the irrigation of other property in the neighborhood. Such
remote and indirect benefit will not warrant an assessment on
any land for a proposed public improvement. ilanscom v.
Omaha, People v. Brooklyn, and Clark v. Dunkirk, ubi sup. ;
In re Morewood Avenue, 159 Penn. St. 20; Friedenwaldv.
Baltbnore, 74 Maryland, 116; State v. Newark, 3 Dutcher,
185; In re Fourth Avenue, 3 Wend. 452; Thomas v. Gain,
35 Michigan, 155.
VI. The assessments levied under the Wright Act are an
exercise of the power of assessment for local improvement, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Mr. Maxwell's Argument for Appellees.

their constitutionality must be determined under the principles
controlling this power of assessment, as distinguished from
principles applicable only to general taxation or eminent
domain, or the exercise of the police power or power to 1vegulate a common use or provide for a common improvement
among several owners. The decisions sustaining the Wright
Act, and the cases cited and arguments advanced in its support, rest upon wrong premises and false reasoning, because
they utterly confuse the principles governing these different
branches of the exercise of the power of the State, and though
conceding the Wright Act to be an exercise of the power of
assessment, seek to maintain it under principles and authorities
applicable only to general taxation or eminent domain or the
police power. Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Aror ,folk v. Chamberlain, 89 Virginia, 196; IHammett v. Piladelphia, 65 Penn. St. 146; Read v. Amosceag Alf'g Co., 113
U. S. 9, 26; JFurts v. Hoagland, 114: U. S. 606, 614.
VII. The legislature in the exercise of its power of assessment for a local public improvement has power primarily to determine the necessity for the improvement, to determine what
property will be benefited thereby, to designate the district
within which the assessments are to be collected and to fix the
mode of their apportionment; but this power is not without
restriction, or in all cases conclusive and beyond judicial control. It is only where the legislature, or the subordinate body
to whom its power may be delegated, has exercised its judgment in the determination of a question of fact relating to any of
these matters, which has been committed to its discretion, that
its action is conclusive, and even then it is not necessarily so
if it has acted in an arbitrary, oppressive or fraudulent manner
or has in any way acted in excess of its power. Whenever,
as is the case of the Wright Act, it appears that a principle of
law has been violated, as by the inclusion of lands clearly not
benefited, or by the application of a wrong basis of apportionment, the legislative action 'will be held void by the courts,
because in excess of its powers. Spencer v. .Merchant, 125
U. S. 345; People v. Brooklyn, 23 Barb. 166; Paulsen v.
Portland, 16 Oregon, 450; Mason v. Spencer, 35 Kansas,

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

129

Mr. Maxwell's Argument for Appellees.

512; State v. Ramsey County, 33 Minnesota, 295; .Merrill v.
Humphrey, 24 Michigan, 170; Chicago v. Burtice, 24 Illinois,
489; Atlanta, v. Gate City Street RailWay, 80 Georgia, 276;
Spring Valley Water TWorks v. San _Francisco, 82 California,
286; Yic- Ifo v. flopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Elwood v. Rochester,
43 Hun, 102; Ilassen v. Rochester, 65 N. Y. 516; People v.
Jeferson County, 55 N. Y. 604; Graham v. Conger, 85 Kentucky, 582;. Thomas v. Gain, 35 Michigan, 155; LeRoy v. New
York, 20 Johns. 429; In re ProtestantJEpis. School, 75 N. Y.
324; 31asters v. Portland,24 Oregon, 161.
NrIII. The Wright Act violates general principles of constitutional law, by which this court will unquestionably be
guided in this case, as it is one of original federal jurisdiction;
but these same principles are a part of the general law of the
land, and when they are violated in the taking of private
property it is taken without due process of law, and its owner
is deprived of the equal protection of the law, and may claim
the protection of the Federal Constitution, no matter whether
the case be one of original federal jurisdiction or an appeal
from a state court. 8hapless v. Philadelphia,21 Penn. St.
147; Alirray v. Hoboken Land & Improvement Co., 18 How.
272; Llurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516; Railroad Tax
cases, 13 Fed. IRep. 722); Davidson v. New Orleans,96 U. S. 97.
IX. A hearing is essential to due process of law; and whenever an assessment district is to be created by any subordinate
legislative body, and assessments are to be levied on lands
therein for the construction of a local public improvement,
every landowner must have a hearing, at some stage of the
proceedings, before the assessment becomes a final charge
against his land, at which he may show that his lands are not
or will not be benefited by the proposed improvement, or
that the assessment against him is not in proportion to benefits or is in excess of benefits; and this hearing must be given
as a matter of right, before a tribunal having power and whose
duty it shall be to exclude the lands or relieve them from
assessment if not benefited, or if the assessments are in excess
of or not proportionate to benefits, then to readjust them or
declare them invalid; and the landowner cannot be deprived
VOL. CzXIV-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Mr. Maxwell's Argument for Appellees.

of this right to a hearing by any determination of the legislature fixing in advance an arbitrary basis of apportionment,
with reference to unknown future conditions, as to which the
legislature could have had no knowledge upon which to base
the exercise of any judgment or discretion in reaching its
determination, or by clothing the assessment district in the
guise of a public corporation. King's River ReblamationDist.
v. Pkillips, 39 Pac. Rep. 630, 41 Pac. Rep. 335; Remsen v.
Wheeler, 105 N. Y. 573 ; People v..Henion, 64 Hun, 471 ; Paulsen v. Portland,149 U. S. 30; Stuart v. Palmer,74 N. Y. 183;
.Dyarv. Farmington,70 Maine, 515 ; Cypress Pond Draining
Go. v. Ilooper, 2 Met. (Ky.) 350; Howell v. Tacoma, 3 Wash.
711.
X. It is contended in support of the Wright Act that the
hearing before the supervisors, when they are to hear the
petition for the formation of the district, affords to the landowner all the opportunity for a hearing to which he is entitled upon the question of benefits, and consequently that
the act does not in this respect take property without due
process of law. This cannot be so, for the reason that under
the provisions of the act as construed by the Supreme Court
of California it is practically impossible for any facts to be
established at this hearing by any objecting landowner which
would give him the right or which would make it the duty
of the board, upon the ground that his lands were not benefited, or upon any ground whatsoever, to exclude any lands
which had been included in the boundaries of the proposed
district as fixed by the petitioners in the petition for its organization.
XI. The radical changes from the Wright Act, which have
been made in the irrigation district laws of Nebraska, Idaho
and Oregon, which were framed in the light of experience
with the practical operations of the Wright Act, strongly support our argument that the unconstitutional features of the
Wright Act make it impossible for any such law to operate
successfully, and show that these later statutes have sought
to eliminate those unconstitutional features of the Wright Act
which have given rise to its most grievous oppressions, and

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

131

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

which will work the practical destruction of any law embodying such provisions.
XII. It is a settled principle of universal law, and is the
law of the land in this nation, that the right to compensation
whenever private property is taken for public use, is an incident to the exercise of that power, and inseparably connected
with it. Any attempt of any legislature to levy assessments
on property not compensated by special benefits or in excess
of such benefits, or not proportionate to benefits, for the purpose of constructing a local public improvement for the general public welfare, is therefore an excess of legislative power,
and clearly a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Mr. Joseph H. Choate for appellees.
The constitution of California provides by Art. 1, ยง 1, that
acquiring, possessing and protecting property are inalienable
rights; and by ยง 14, that "Private property shall not be
taken or damaged for public use without just compensation
having been first made to, or paid into court for, the owner."
Our main contention is that the Wright Act is in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, which provides -"
nor shall any State deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law;
nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
We insist that it violates each of these clauses; and, also
that, in its treatment of private property, it violates those uniform constitutional provisions 'for the protection of private
property which are found alike in the constitution of California and those of all the other States.
I. Before coming to the special methods pursued in the
Wright Act, we submit that any law of any State which
sought to accomplish the objects of that act would be obnoxious to the constitutional provisions which we invoke, for that
act plainly attempts to provide for the taking of private property for a private use.
In Bank of Columbia v. Okely, 4 Wheat. 235, the court say,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
-Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

(p. 244,) " As to the words from Magna Charta incorporated
into the constitution of Maryland - [No freeman ought to be
deprived of his . . . property but by the judgment of his peers or the law of the land]- after volumes
spoken and written with a view to their exposition, the
good sense of mankind has at length settled down to this:
that they were intended.to secure .the individual from the
arbitrary exercise of the powers of government unrestrained
by the established principles of private rights and distributive
justice."
Whoever, then, undertakes to take away my property must
show the authority of law for doing so; not an arbitrary edict
of the legislature, but a legitimate exercise of legislative
power, as restrained by the established principles of private
rights and distributive justice-a law of the land, which does
not deny- to me the equal protection of. the laws.
And further, where money is sought to be taken by the
State from an individual by the exercise of the power of taxation in any form, or however that power may be defined, it must
'be for the purpose of expenditure for a public object or use,
and the test of the validity of a law enacted for that purpose
must necessarily be the essential character of the direct object
of the expenditure proposed. "The incidental advantage to
the public, or to the State, which results from the promotion
of private interests and the prosperity of private enterprises
or business, does not justify their aid by the use of public
money raised by taxation, or for which taxation may become
Lowell v. Boston, 111 Mass. 461.
necessary."
Examining the Wright Act by the light of these principles
we find it to be an act to raise a fund by levy upon all the
landholders of a given district, whether their lands need irrigating or not, and whether they desire to have them irrigated
or not, to be expended in procuring water for the irrigation of
all the lands in the district, so as to make it cheaper for those
of them who do desire it than if they had to irrigate their
own'lands at their own individual expense.
The pecuniary relief of such of the landholders is thus the
direct and immediate object of the intervention of the State

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

133

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

by the exercise of the power of taxation. This object is as
strictly private as it was in any of the famous cases which
have condemned similar attempts to wrest money from citizens by force of law for private use, and the resulting benefits to the public are quite as indirect and uncertain as in any
of those.
In Lowell v. Boston, 111 Mass. 454, an act to loan the credit
of the city of Boston to individual sufferers by the great fire,
to enable them to rebuild, each on his own property, was condemned. In loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, this
court pronounced against an act of Kansas "to authorize cities
and counties to issue bonds for the purpose of building bridges,
aiding railroads, water power or other works of internal
improvement." In State v. Osawkee, 14- Kansas, 418, the
Supreme Court of Kansas held an act of the legislature of
that State authorizing the issue of township bonds to provide
means for furnishing destitute citizens with food and with
seed to be unconstitutional. The Supreme Court of Maine
holds the same doctrine. Allen v. lay, 60 Maine, 124. See
also lf'aterloo WT~olen
Company v. Shanahan,
CIan?'aeturng
128 N. Y. 345; Shoemake', v. United States, 147 U. S. 282;
Ir 'e Niagara Falls & Thirrpool Railroad,108 N. Y. 375;
In re Jaeobs, 98 N. Y. 98; Concord R ailroad v. Greely,
17 N. I. 47.
As the present case is plainly governed by the principles
laid down in these leading cases, so it is not only distinguishable, but is in its essential nature absolutely distinct from all
the classes of cases where local improvements have been held
to be for public use, or have been sustained as a just exercise
of the police power, or on other special and peculiar grounds.
It was in reliance upon those classes of cases that the learned
Supreme Court of California maintained the constitutionality
of the law, while the United States Circuit Judge, adhering
to the cardinal rules already laid down, declared it to be
against first principles, and in direct violation of the constitutional prohibition whose protection we invoke.
We do not dispute that the legislatuire may by taxation or
assessment provide for a local public improvement for the

OCTOBER TERM,. 1896.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

benefit of a portion of the State; nor do we question that
the legislature might, in the lawful exercise of this power,
provide for the irrigation of arid lands, unproductive without irrigation. The operations. of the Wright Act are, however, not limited to such unproductive lands, but include all
lands, no matter how fertile or productive; and we deny
that the furnishing of a fertilizer for the already productive
lands of individual proprietors to make them more productive is or can be, in any possible legal sense, a public improvement; and we deny that the nine-tenths of the people of
the locality who are not landholders have or can have any
interest in such business, or that they can receive any benefit
therefrom other than such as is, upon every principle of law,
reason and common sense, strictly indirect, incidental and consequential. This is in the very nature of things. See Seujitetown. Fence Company v. MAllister, 12 Bush, 312; Anderson
v. Zerns -Drainage Co., 14 Indiana, 199; MQuillen v.
Jlatton, 42 Ohio St. 202; Reeves v. Wood County, 8 Ohio
St. 333; In re Niagara -Falls & Whirlpool Railroad, 108
N. Y. 375.
Nor is the contention of the Supreme Court of California
aided by calling the unique entity, brought into existence by
this statute under the name of Irrigation District, a public
corporation. If the essential thing sought to be accomplished
is the taking of the property or money of one citizen for the
private benefit of another, it matters not whether the agency
created for the purpose be called a public or private corporation, or a commission.
A corporation armed with the power to tax for the purpose
of converting private grazing or farm lands into vineyards or
orchards, with or without the will of the owner, takes private
property for purely private uses, by whatever name it may be
called.
In Beach v. Leaky, 11 Kansas, at p. 31, Mr. Justice Brewer,
speaking of school districts, lays down the principle that "The mere fact that these organizations are declared in the
statute to be bodies corporate, has little weight. We look
behind the name to the thing named. Its character, its rela-

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

135

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

tions and itd functions determine its position, land not the
mere title under which it passes."
Tie cases in which the organization of districts for local
improvement and the forced contributions of landholders
therein by taxation or assessment for the common benefit
have been upheld, as a legitimate exercise of legislative power,
all differ from this Wright Act in this -that in all those cases
there was a common interest, a common necessity or a common
benefit, the promotion of which was obviously the direct and
immediate object of the proposed expenditure, while here
such direct and immediate object is the fertilization by water,
at the common expense, of the lands of those owners who
desire their lands to be irrigated, the interest of each being
absolutely distinct and independent.
The Reclamation District Act differs from the Wright Act
in every particular in which we claim the latter to be unconstitutional. In the Reclamation District Act there was no
unlawful delegation of legislative power; the object of the
act was a purpose in which every landholder had a common
interest, and was for the permanent reclamation of lands otherwise not only useless, but a menace to the public health. The
Reclamation Act gave the supervisors discretion to act upon
the hearing of the petition. Then, too, only the land to be
reclaimed was assessed, and that tax was proportionate to the
whole expense and to the benefit received. Moreover, the tax
was only to be collected by suit, in which any defence going
to the validity of the tax could, of course, be set up. In all of
these fundamentally important particulars, and others, did the
Reclamation Act differ from the Wright Act.
It was said by the court in Loan Association v. Yopcka, and
has often been repeated, that, "in deciding whether in the
given case the object for which the taxes are assessed falls
upon the one side or the other of this line, they must be governed mainly by the course and usage of the government, the
objects for which taxes have been customarily and by long
course of legislation levied, what objects or purposes have
been considered necessary to the support and proper use of
the government, whether state or municipal;" and that "What-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

ever lawfully pertains to this and is sanctioned by time and
the acquiescence of the people may well be held to belong to
the public use, and proper for the maintenance of good gov-ernment."

Surely, it will not be pretended that this novel and utterly
unique statute was sanctioned by previous use or acquiescence,
or ever had a'precedent in legislation, or that it approximates
in any degree to the exercise of legislative power for a governmental purpose.
The drainage cases, represented by the case of IMurts v.
Hoagland, 114 U. S. 606, well illustrate the force of Mr.
Justice Miller's rule just quoted, and are in striking coirtrast
to the case at bar
The sound and well-reasoned conclusion there, drawn from
the early New Jersey cases, is, that "the drainage of large
tracts of swamp and low lands upon proceedings instituted by
some of the proprietors of the lands, to compel all to contribute to the expense of their drainage, have been maintained
by the courts of iNew Jersey (without reference to the power
of taking private property for public use under the right of
eminent domain, or to the power of suppressing a nuisance
dangerous to the public health), as a just and constitutional
exercise of the power of the legislature to establish regulations
by which adjoining lands, held by various owners in severalty,
and in the improvement of which all have a common interest,
but which by reason of the peculiar natural condition of the
whole tract, cannot be improved or enjoyed by any of them
without the concurrence of all, may be reclaimed and made
useful to all at their joint expense."
Certainly, the proprietors of adjoining lands, already arable
and devoted to the raising of wheat- or other grain, or in use
for grazing, which they are content and desire to continue to
cultivate or use in that way, cannot be brought into the category here instanced by an application of some of their neighbors to compel them to have their lands irrigated in common
with the petitioners.
But the court in Wurts v. Hoagland immediately follows
up this statement of the rule applicable to drainage cases by

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY

137

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

the further statement that "the case comes within the principle upon which this court upheld the validity of general mill
acts in .Uead v. Amoskeag -Mfg Co., 113 U. S. 9."
In that interesting case the court declined to decide or to
consider the question whether the erection and maintenance
of mills for manufacturing purposes under a general mill act
could be upheld as a taking of private property for public use
in the constitutional sense, but, after a careful review of the
Massachusetts and New Hampshire cases from the beginning,
rested the decision on the following proposition: "Upon principle and authority, therefore, independently of any weight
due to the opinions of the courts of N~ew Hampshire and other
States, maintaining the validity of general mill acts as taking
private property for public use in the strict constitutional
meaning of that phrase, the statute under which the Amoskeag
:Manufacturing Company has flowed the land in question is
clearly valid as a just and reasonable exercise of the power of
the legislature, having regard to the public good in a more
general sense, as well as to the rights of the riparian proprietors, to regulate the use of the water power of running streams,
which, without some such legislation, could not be beneficially
used."
No suggestion, therefore, can be found in the drainage or
the mill acts, as interpreted by this court, which will countenance these irrigation acts as the legitimate exercise of legislative power for public or governmental purposes.
The government exercises and grants eminent domain with
considerable liberality wherever the public purpose is sufficient
to demand it. The most important consideration in the case
of eminent domain is the necessity of accomplishing some
public good which is otherwise iflpracticable. The power
is much more like to that -of the public police than that of
taxation; it goes but a step further, and that in the same
direction.
It is this principle upon which the mill acts are based,
Murdook v. Stickney, 8 Cash. 113, and it is analogous to the
common law.way of necessity. It has nothing to do with
public use in the sense that applies to taxation. It rests on

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

the nature of the property and the fact that there must of
necessity be a kind of joint use.
In certain cases, therefore, of arid tracts of land needing
only wateF to render it fruitful, such a power miglt, perhaps,
be invoked by the owners for easements for canals or aqueducts,
in order to obtain that water. In such a case a full price is
paid by the irrigator for whatever he takes, and no one is
deprived of property without an equivalent. But to tax all
landowners whether their land is arid or not, whether they
will or not, in a district the bounds of which were determined
by irresponsible petitioners, is, we submit, a very different
matter. In such a case many a landowner may be and is
deprived of his property

-either

in money or land -with

no

possible remuneration. Under the power of eminent domain
he is made to exchange his land for other property, its exact
legal equivalent. Under the Wright Act he is made invariably
to give it up, because he can in such case, by no possibility,
get any legal equivalent; for when his land is gone he can
have no irrigation. It is, therefore, the veriest sophistry to
seek to uphold this act upon the principles which apply to
eminent domain.
The immemorial and universally recognized right of every
man to occupy and use his own land for such purposes as he
sees fit, provided only that the land itself, or the condition in
which he puts it, or the use which he makes of it, does not
injure his neighbor, in which indeed the essential right of private property consists, cannot be invaded by his neighbor or
by the State for the private benefit of his neighbor, for that
is the very thing in which the taking of his property without
due process of law consists.
The act here in question really proposes to furnish water as
a commodity to the several landholders in the district for-use
upon their lands, as they may prefer, and cannot be distinguished in principle from an act which should provide for
furnishing to the farmers of' a district, for use or for sale,
guano or other like fertilizers, or trees for planting, with an
ultimate view to the promotion of the general prosperity of
the neighborhood. Nor can it be distinguished in principle

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

139

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

from an act providing for the erection of farm houses, or farm
barns, or fences throughout a district by a forced levy on the
landholders under the authority of the State in order to promote the growth of the neighborhood. See Gaines v. Buford,
1 Dana, 481.
Finally, in dealing in the water as merchandise, the statute
here in question bears the distinct form of a statute for private, as distinguished from public, use.
Any landowner - and landowners only - can have it, to
use or to sell, but, of course, they cannot be compelled to take
or to use it.
In Jones v. Water olnnmissioners of Detroit,34: Michigan,
273, where a tax was levied upon vacant lots for the purpose
of raising money to pay for water bonds, the court, in holding
the tax invalid, said: "No one can be compelled to take water
unless he chooses, . . . and citizens may take it or not as
the price does or does not suit them."
But in the Wright Act the citizen is compelled to pay for
the water whether he wants it or not. He is to be taxed in
proportion to the amount of water which he might have if he
chose to use it. So thet the benefit does not accrue to the
land by the construction of the improvement, but by the use
of the improvement which the owner cannot be compelled to
make. But in all drainage, reclamation, levee and protection
statutes the benefit does accrue to the landowner by the mere
making of the improvement. He cannot help being benefited.
The same benefit accrues to the public.
We submit, therefore, that the Wright Act does violate the
fundamental principles on which the right to the ownership
and use of private property rests, takes from the citizen money
to expend for the private use of his neighbors, does this without due process of law, and that it exceeds the legitimate
authority of the legislature to accomplish the end sought by
it, in any form or by any methods.
But, assuming for the sake of the argument, that the legislature itself might, without exceeding its constitutional
powers, map out a district of the State, which did not requir6
irrigation, and enact that it should, nevertheless, be irrigated

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

at the common expense of the landowners, so as to make it
more productive, for their common benefit, and to promote
the settlement and prosperity of that section of the State, we
submit that it cannot abdicate its own responsibility and
reach that result by the means and in the method provided
by theWright Act. That act will be found to involve a
delegation-by the legislature of the sovereign power of government to private citizens, which is quite as fatal to the act
under the constitutional prohibitions, whose aid we invoke, as
any other attempt to exceed the constitutional bounds of
legislative power.
This brings into view the unique and, as we believe, wholly
unprecedented features of the scheme contrived by this act for
the oppression of the farmers of California. We think that
the statute books of all States and nations outside of California, prior to 1887, will be searched in vain, without finding
another such example, and especially in view of the construction which has been given to certain details of this statute by
the Supreme Court of California.
The all-important question of the expedien6y of forming an
irrigation
is determined, not by the legislature, nor by
any public body or officer, but by the self-constituted body of
petitioners, subject only to a vote of the qualified electors of
the proposed district, who may or may not have any interest
in the-ands or the subject-matter, and nine-tenths of whom,
as a matter of course, will have no interest. Practically, the
vital question of the boundaries of the district is determined
in the same way; for the functions of the supervisors in the
matter of boundaries are really perfunctory.
As to the petitioners, they must be fifty, or a majority of
the landholders of the district proposed by themselves. Thus,
according to the construction of the act contended for by its
advocates, two landholders, each owning a city lot, may be a
majority vested with this power over one proprietor owning
ten square miles; or fifty tenants in common of a town lot
may institute the proceedings and exercise the vast power
involved over five thousand proprietors of vast tracts of land
who may have no desire or need for irrigation; for a majority
-'strict

FALLBROOK IRRIGATIOIN DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

141

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

is only required in the event of there being a less number of
proprietors within the district than one hundred, and, if there
be five thousand proprietors, a minority consisting of no more
than fifty may proceed by petition.
II. The supervisors have no power to determine whether
there shall be an irrigation district or not. They cannot
reject the petition, but must proceed to establish and define
the boundaries, and, although a nominal power is given them
to make such changes in the proposed boundaries as they
may find to be proper, the proviso substantially nullifies this
apparent power, for the proviso declares that they shall not
modify the boundaries so as to except from the operation of
this act any territory within the boundaries of the district proposed by the petitioners, which is susceptible of irrigation by
the same system of works applicable to other lands in such
proposed district.
In the fodesto case, 88 California, 334, 353, the Supreme
Court, referring to the clause, "Nor shall any land which
will not, in the judgment of the said board, be benefited by
irrigation by said system be included within such district,"
held as follows: "We construe the law to mean that the
board may include in the boundaries of the district all lands
which in their natural state would be benefited by irrigation
and are susceptible of irrigation by one system, regardless of
the fact that buildings or other structures may have been
erected here and there upon small lots which are thereby rendered unfit -for cultivation, at the same time that their value

for other purposes may have been greatly enhanced. So con8trued, we can see no objections to the law upon constitutional grounds or grounds of expediency. As to owners of
such property, it seems reasonable to assume that they must
participate indirectly at least in any benefits the district may
derive from the successful inauguration of a system of irrigation; but aside from this the law contains an express provision
designed to secure to them a benefit exactly corresponding to
any burden to which they may be subjected in that .
every taxpayer receives a portion of all the water distributed
exactly equivalent to his proportion of the total tax levied,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

and this water is his to use or to sell as he may elect, so that
if his lot is not fit for cultivation he nevertheless gets a full
equivalent for the tax assessed to him." Tht distinction between the words "susceptible of irrigation" in the first portion of the clause and the words "benefited by irrigation by
said system," as thus construed, will not be overlooked. It is
clear, therefore, that the board of supervisors not only has
no power to pass upon the question of the expediency of
forming the district, but has no practical power to prescribe
its boundaries.
Before considering the legal question involved, the court
should consider the practical working of this scheme of irrigation. The scheme may in some cases result iA an abundant
supply of water. In all cases it will result in an abundant supply of bonds, assessments, liens and sales for non-payment.
The provision is for the creation of a nondescript quasi or
semi-quasi public corporation for 'the purpose of managing
the irrigation of private property. The board of directors of
this corporation may not and probably will not include a
single landholder.
Patronage, plunder and bonds without limit are the obvious
tendency and result, if not the direct object of the act. Towns
and villages, however solidly built, may be included, and practically are included in the districts proposed. The Supreme
Court of California has made this remark in regard to districts formed under the Wright Act: "1We can imagine the
formation of an irrigation district under that *statute with its
boundaries confined to the limits of an incorporated city, or to
those of a Swamp Land District where irrigation would be productive of injury and of no benefit." Woodward v. Fruitvale
Sanitary Dpist., 99 California, 554. In a still later cas6 it said:
"The few checks provided by the statute against the reckless
or improvident creation of bond liens . . . on all the lands
in one of these irrigation districts, largely by the votes of
electors who own no part of such lands, should be strictly enforced in favor of the owners of such lands." Culen v. Glendora Co., 39 Pac. Rep. 769.
We submit, with all confidence, that this novel mode of

FALLBROK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

143

Mr. Choatts Argument for Appellees.

constituting districts for assessment is an unlawful delegation
of legislative power, and is in its very nature one of those
exercises of the powers of government, unrestrained by the
established principles of private rights and of distributive
justice, which this court has declared to be the thing which
constitutes the taking of a man's property without due process
of law.
The authorities for the proposition upon which we now rely
are quite numerous and very emphatic. The leading case, by
reason of the ability and high character of the court from
which it emanates, is People v. Bennett, 29 Michigan, 451.
The Supreme Court of Michigan there laid it down as a generally recognized principle never to be lost sight of, that,
while the law may extend great facilities to persons and communities desirous of becoming incorporated, "yet a compulsory incorporation can only come from direct legislative action,
or the action of such persons or bodies as may by the law of
the land be vested with sufficient delegated authority to bind
the community;" and further held that while it is manifest
that one of the first and most vital questions involved in a
public corporation is that of boundaries, and while of course
it would be natural and for the interest of a compact body of
inhabitants to be converted into a village for purposes of government, yet "it would be tyrannical to allow them to determine for themselves what property should be made tributary
to their local interests, in which the rest of the town has no
concern. . . . But it is not in the power of a legislature
to abdicate its functions, or to subject citizens and their interests to the interference of any but lawful public agencies. The
judicial power must be vested in courts. Such legislative and
local authority as can be delegated at all, must -be delegated
to municipal corporations or local boards and officers. The
definition of corporate bounds is -second in importance to no
corporate interests whatever. If it can be delegated at all so
as to include any but single settlements, it must be delegated
to somebody recognized by the constitution as capable of receiving such authority and having local jurisdiction over the
territory to be incorporated. It is impossible to sustain a dele-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

gation of any sovereign power of government to private citizens or to justify their assumption of it."
The conclusion is inevitable from an examination of the
authorities, that a delegation by the legislature of its power
to lay out distiicts for public improvement to the irresponsible
petitioners and to the majority of the electors in the district
designated by the petitioners, is manifestly illegal and unconstitutional. Board of com'rs of Wyandotte County v. Abbott,
52 Kansas, 148; Parks v. Board of Com7rs of lFyandotte
County, 61 Fed. Rep. 436; McCabe v. 0a)penter, 102 California, 469; People v. Parks, 58 California, 62-; Ex parte
Mall, 48 California, 279. The Wright Act finds no support
in any of the cases which have sustained the laying out of
improvement districts of any kind by the State, or by municipal or other authorities representing the State and exercising
governmental power on behalf of the State, as a proper method
of taxing or taking property for public use.
III. Assuming again, for the sake of the argument, that the
Wright Act; so far as it provides for the organization of irrigation districts by means of a petition of fifty or a majority
of the landholders of the district proposed in the petition, approved by a vote of the majority of the electors of the district,
is a legitimate exercise of legislative power so as to constitute
to that extent due process of law for the taking of private
property by taxation, we submit that there is A further fatal
defect in the act, in that it permits the whole cost to be levied
by the board of directbrs of the district upon all of the real
estate of the district according to value, with no reference to
the degree of benefit conferred, all of which is done without
due process of law and without compensation to the owner,
and herein it violates the constitutional provisions whose aid
we invoke.
Here again the legislature does not decide or declare that
in the irrigation of a particular district described by it, or to
be described by a municipal or other public authority properly
representing it, the assessment shall be according to the value
as in its judgment the nearest approximation to benefit; but it
decides and declares that in any district that may be described

FALLBRO K IRRIGATION DISTRICT u. BRADLEY.

145

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

by petitioners and created by qualified electors the assessment
according to value shall prevail. We submit that this method
of taxation is purely arbitrary and capricious, contrary to the
fundamental principles of taxation, and that it deprives the
statute of the character of due process.
In his opinion in the 3fadera case, 92 California, 324,
Mr. Justice Harrison says: "All taxation has its source in
the necessities of organized society, and is limited by such
necessity, and can be exercised only by some demand for the
public use or welfare. And whether the tax be *by direct
imposition for revenue, or by assessment for a local improveinent, it is based upon the theory that it is in return for the
benefit received by the person who pays the tax, or by the
property which is assessed. For the purpose of apportioning
this benefit, the legislature may determine in advance what
property will be benefited, by designating the district within
which it is to be collected, as well as the property upon which
it is to be imposed,'or it may appoint a commission or delegate
to a subordinate agency the power to ascertain the extent of
this benefit."
Under the Wright Act neither the legislature nor any subordinate or local legislative body determines what property
will be benefited, either "by designating the district" or by
designating "the property upon which" the assessment "is
to be imposed." As we have shown, this power of designation and determination is practically vested in the petitioners.
They may include any lands susceptible of irrigation, or which,
under the construction given to the statute by the Supreme
Court of California in the -Modesto case, would be even indirectly benefited thereby, by the increased productiveness of
adjoining property, or which were, in their natural state, susceptible of irrigation.
MNr. Justice Harrison further says in his opinion in the
3[1adera case: "It is not necessary to show that property
within the district may be actually benefited by the local improvement, and, even if it positively appear that no benefit
is received, such property is not thereby exempted from bearing its portion of the assessment, nor'is the act unconstivoL. cnxiv-1O

I

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

tutional because it provides that such property shall be
assessed."
'We submit that. this statement of 'the law is simply revolutionary, of all established principles, precedents and cases upon
this subject, and that the true principle is directly to the
contrary. As was said by Chief Justice Shaw, in Wright v.
Boston, 9 Cush. 233, the principle is that: "When certain
persons are so placed as to have a common interest amongst
themselves, but in common with the rest of the community,
laws may be justly made, providing that, under suitable and
equitable regulations, those common interests shall be so
managed that those who enjoy th- benefits shall equally bear.
the burden."
See also Tide Water Co. v. Coster, 18 N. J. Eq. 518; Stuart
-v. Palmer, 74 N. Y. 183; Montana Co. v. &t. Louis HipTig
Co., 152 U. S. 160, 169; Brandenstein v. Hoke, 101 California,
131; Macon v. Patty,57 Mississippi, 378; People v. Brooklyn,
4 N. Y. 419; -Hammett v. Philadelphia,65 Penn. St. 146:
lit re Washington Avenue, 69 Penn. St. 352.
The Concluding sentence in the last case is entirely apposite.
"There is a clear implication from the primary declaration of
the inherent and indefeasible right of property, followed by
the clauses guarding it against specific transgressions" [referring to the usual constitutional limitations] "that covers it
with an regis of protection against all unjust, unreasonable
and palpably unequal exactions under any name or pretext.
Nor is this sanctity incompatible with the taxing power or
that of eminent domain, where for the good of the whole people, burdens may be imposed or property taken. I admit that
the power to tax is unbounded by any express limit in the
constitution - that it may be exercised to the full extent of
the public exigency. I concede that it differs from the power
of eminent domain, and has no thought of compensation by
way of a return for that which it takes and applies to the
public good, further than all derive benefit from the purpose
to which it is applied. But, nevertheless, taxation is bounded
in its exercise by its own nature, essential characteristics and
purpose. It must therefore visit all alike in a reasonably

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

147

'ir. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

practical way, of which the legislature may judge, but within
the just limits of what is taxation. Like the rain, it may fall
upon the people in districts and by turns, but still it must be
public in its purpose, and reasonably just and equal in its distribution, and cannot sacrifice individual right by a palpably
unjust exaction. To do so is confiscation, not taxation; extortion, not assessment, and falls within the clearly implied restriction in the Bill of Rights."
Later Pennsylvania cases still more forcibly affirm this
doctrine. Allegheny City v. Western Penn. R., 138 Penn. St.
375; Pittsburgh's Petition, 138 Penn. St. 401; 3lorewood
Avenue, 159 Penn. St. 20; Park Ave. Sewers, 169 Penn. St.
433. See also State v. Newark, 37 N. J. Law, 415; Stuart v.
Palmer, 74 :N. Y. 183; Thomas v. Gain, 35 Michigan, 155;
People v. Jeferson County Court, 55 N. Y. 604; Cypress
Pond Draining Co. v. Hooper, 2 Met. (Ky.) 350 ; Davidson v.
-Yew Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Hagar v. Reclamation District,
111 U. S. 701.
IV. Assuming again, for the sake of the argument, that
the statute in question is a valid exercise of legislative power
in respect to the formation of the district by the means and
through the agencies provided, and that the mode of assessment can be regarded as due process of law, we claim that
the total want of an opportunity to be heard on the question
of the expediency of forming the district, on the question of
boundaries, on the questions of cost and scheme of improvement, and on the question of benefit received, deprives the
act of the constitutional character of due process of law as it
has been heretofore defined by this court.
The only hearing accorded to the landholder, from the
beginning to the end of the scheme, from the time of the filing of the petition until his land is sold out for non-payment
of assessment, is the very scanty -right of being heard upon
the question of the valuation of his own property, and perhaps of- other property, included in the district. That is
accorded to him apparently as an idle form; for even in
respect to that limited point, if he cannot be heard on the
question of benefit received, the hearing is utterly nugatory.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

The principle has been thus stated by the Supreme Court of
California: "It is a principle which underlies all forms of
government by law that a citizen shall not be deprived of life,
liberty, or property, without due process of law. The legislature has no power to take away a man's property, nor can it
authorize its agents to do so, without first providing for personal notice to be given to him: and for a full opportunity of
time, place and tribunal to be heard in defence of his rights.
This constitutional guarantee is not confined to judicial proceedings, but extends to every case in which a citizen may be
deprived of life, liberty or property, whether the proceeding
be judicial, administrative or executive in its nature." Mulligan v. Smith, 59 California, 230.
(a) In regard to the fundamental question as to whether
there shall be an irrigation district, there is no hearing because
the supervisors to whom-the petition is to be presented have
no power to consider or determine that question.
It is idle, we submit, to say as the Supreme Court of California does, that in this respect the grievance of the landholder is the same as is suffered by everybody within the
limits of a municipal or school district whose organizati6n and
boundaries are to be determined by a popular vote of the
residents of the proposed district. There is no resemblance
whatever between the cases.
(b)There is no hearing, as matter of right, accorded to the
landholder upon the question of boundaries. He may get
notice, it-is true, if he happens to take the local paper, that
the petition is to be presented, but there is no right given him
to present objections, and no duty imposed upon the superr
visors to hear his objections.
The right to be heard in tax cases is a constitutional one
and indefeasible, and applies to ihese special assessments for
local improvements. County of Santa Clara v. Southern
Pacq;fc Railway, 18 Fed. Rep. 385; Scott v. Toledo, 36 Fed.
Rep. 385; 21eyers v. Shields, 61 Fed. Rep. 713; Ulman v.
Baltimore, 72 Maryland, 587; Railroad Tax cases, 13 Fed.
.Rep. 722; Stuart v. Palmer, 74: N. Y. 183.

F kLLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

149

31r. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

(c) As to the scheme of irrigation and its practicability and
cost there is no pretence that these landholders who are to
pay are to be consulted or to have a hearing in any respect
whatever.
The audacious claim is made on the part of the upholders
of the system that the mere right of being heard each on the
value of his own land, without more, and without any right
to be heard on the total cost or the proportional burden which
he is to bear, or the benefit which he is to receive, is sufficient
to uphold the act.
In answer to this objection, or rather in answer to the more
limited objection that the act makes no provision for a hearing
to be granted to the owners of the land prior to the organization of the district, it is claimed by Mr. Justice Harrison, in
his opinion in the .Maderacase, 92 California, 323, that the proceeding u' to that point is merely for the creation of a public
corporation, which is to be invested with certain political
duties which it is to exercise in behalf of the State. He
claims that it has never been held that the inhabitants of a
district are entitled to notice and hearing upon a proposition
to submit such a question to a popular vote; that it would be
competent for the legislature to enact it without such a submission; and thaf it has as much power to create the district
in accordance with the will of a majority of the electors.
We care not by what name the legal entity created by the
act may be called, whether a public or a quasi or a semi-quasi,
or, as it has been called by one learned judge, a bastard
public-private corporation, but we do deny most emphatically
that the function with which it is invested, the duties which
it is to discharge are in any manner political duties to be
exercised in behalf of the State.
It is nothing more or less than a service to be rendered to
the landowners of the district for their own account without
any intervention or interest of the public. It is for these
landowners that the directors are to procure and furnish the
water for use or for sale. It is for them and at their expense
that they are to issue the bonds. It is for them that the
directors are to mortgage the property acquired and to con-

OCTOBER TERMW, 1896.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellees.

stitute the plant of irrigation works. There is nothing public
about it; and if there is any force in the points we have
already presented, there is no force in this contention of that
learned judge.
We do not think that, within any of the cases that have
been adjudicated by this court, the landholders can he denied
a hearing on all these important matters, and must put up
with the idle and almost formal hearing of the question of the
valuation of each landowner's individual piece of property.
The spirit of the constitutional rule is that they shall have
real bread in the matter of. a hearing, and this would put them
off with nothing but a stone. We invoke the decisions of this
court already made in support of the proposition that there
must be an actual hearing on the real merits, and not a mere
formal one on a strictly side issue, in order to give to the.proceedings the character of due process of law. .Kennardv. Mo)gan, 92 U. S. 480; lfMillen v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 37 ; li.gar
v. .Reclamatiao District,111 U. S.. 701; lVurts v. Iloagland,
114 U. S. 606; Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Railroadr.
Kentucky, 115 U. S. 321; Walston v. Nevin, 128 U. S. 578;
Lent v. Tillson, 140 U. S. 316; Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S.
345.
In the latter case this rule is laid down: "If the Legislature
provides for notice to and hearing of each proprietor at some
stage of the proceedings upon the question of what proportion
of the tax shall be assessed upon his land, there is no taking of
his property without due process of law."
Even an act imposing a tax and declaring what lands should
be deemed to be benefited, recognized the right of the landholders to be heard upon the validity of the assessment, and its
apportionment among the different parcels of the class which
the legislature had conclusively determined to be benefited.
We think that no case can be found supporting a statute
which deprives citizens of their property with no other right
to be heard than upon the question of value of their own
property, which is arbitrarily made the basis of assessment
without any regard to actual benefit received, against the
objection that such a statute is not due process of law.

FALLBI200K IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

151

Opinion of the Court.

(d) The claim that the Confirmation Act, approved March
16, 1889, is a cure for the objection of want of notice and
hearing is properly disposed of by the suggestion of Ross,
C. J., in the Ffallbroo case, that it gives no right of hearing
to the landholder, but is merely a proceeding to be tAken, not
by the landholder, but by the directors at their option.
.Mr. John F. Dillon, (Mr. Har2y Hubbard and Xr. John .I.
Dillon were on his brief,) for appellants. He cited, Turlock
I rigation District v. TWilliams, 76 California, 360; Central
IrrigationDistrict v. De Lappe, 79 California, 351; Crall v.
Poso I'rigationDistrict, 87 California, 140; -Modesto Irrigation District v. Tregea, 88 California, 334; In 7e Jleadera
IrrigationDistrict, 92 California, 296; 1 egea v. Owens, 94
California, 317 ; People v. Selma IrrigationDistrict,98 California, 206; Rialto IrrigationDistrict v. Brandon, 103 California, 384; Quint v. Hq/fman, 103 California, 506; Woodrtiff
v. Perry, 103 California, 611 ; Fallbrooc IrrigationDistrictv.
Abila, 106 California, 355; Cullen v. Glendora Wfater Co., 39
Pac. Rep. 769; Page v. Board of Supervisors of Los Angeles
County, 85 California, 50; People v. Hagar, 52 California,
171; Shelby v. Guy, 11 Wheat. 361; Jackson v. Chew, 12
Wheat. 153; Green v. Nfeal, 6 Pet. 291; Roberts v. Lewis,
153 U. S. 367; Nesmith v. Sheldon, 7 How. 812; Van Rensselaer v. Kearney, 11 How. 297; Webster v. Cooper, 14 How.
488; Lefflngwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Detroit v. Osborne,
135 U. S. 492; Hlagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701;
.Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22; Chicago Tnion, Bank v.
Ki-ansas City Bank, 136 U. S.223; Grand 1T'unk Railway v.
Ives, 144 U. S. 408 ; Bauserman v. Blunt, 147 U. S. 647 ; .May
v. Tenney, 148 U. S. 60.
MR. JVsncE PEoKHAm, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The decision of this case involves the validity of the irrigation act enacted by the legislature of the State of California
and set forth in the above statement of facts. The principal

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

act, passed in 18S7, has been amended once or twice by subsequent legislation, but ii its main features it remains as first
enacted. The title of the act indicates its purpose. It is
admitted by all that very large tracts of land in California
are in fact "arid lands," which require artificial irrigation in
order to produce anything of vadue. There are different
degrees, however, in: which irrigation is necessary, from a
point where, without its use, the land is absolutely uncultivable, to where, if not irrigated artificially, it may yet produce
some return for the labor of the husbandman in the shape of
a puny and unreliable crop, but nothing like what it could and
would do if water were used upon it. There are again other
lands which, if not irrigated, will still produce the ordinary
cereal crops .to a more or less uncertain extent, but which, if
water be used artificially upon them at appropriate times, are
thereby fitted to and will produce mveh more certain and larger
crops than without it, and will be also rendered capable of producing fruit and grapes of all kinds, of flirst-rate quality and in
very large quantities. What is termed the "arid" belt is said
in the Census Bulletin, No. 23, for the census of 1890, to extend
from Colorado to the Pacific Ocean, and to include over
600,000,000 acres of land.
Of this enormous total, artificial irrigation has thus far been
used only upon about three and a half million acres, of which
-slightly over a million acres lie in the State of California. It
was stated by counsel that something over thirty irrigation
districts had been organized in California under the act in
question, and that a total bonded indebtedness of more than
$16,000,000 had been authorized by the various districts under
the provisions of the act, and that more than $8,000,000 of the
bonds had been sold and the money used for the acquisition of
property and water rights and for the construction of works
necessary for the irrigation of the lands contained in the
various districts.
Whether these statements are perfectly accurate or not is a
matter of no great importance, as it has been assumed by all
that numbers of districts have been formed under the act and
a very large indebtedness already incurred, and that more

FALtBROOK IRRIGATION *DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

153

Opinion of the Court.

will be necessary before all the districts will be placed in an
efficient working condition. All these moneys, if the act be
valid, must eventually be repaid from assessments levied upon
the lands embraced within the respective districts, while the
annually recurring interest upon these moneys is also to be
paid in the same way. Taking the California act as a model,
it was also stated and not contradicted that several of the
other States which contain portions of the arid belt (seven.
or eight of them) had passed irrigation acts, and that proceedings under them were generally awaiting the result of
this litigation. The future prosperity of these States, it was
claimed, depended upon the validity of this act as furnishing
the only means practicable for obtaining artificial irrigation,
without the aid of which millions and millions of acres would
be condemned to lie idle and worthless, which otherwise would
furnish enormous quantities of agricultural prbducts and increase the material wealth and prosperity of that whole section
of country. On the other hand, it has been asserted, with
equal earnestness, that the whole scheme of the act will, if
carried out to the end, result in the practical confiscation of
lands like those belonging to the appellees herein for the benefit
of those owning different kinds of land upon which the assessments for the water would be comparatively light, and the
benefits resulting from its use far in excess of those otherwise
situated. Such results, it is said, are nothing more than taking
by legislation the property of one person or class of persons
and giving it to another, which is an arbitrary act of pure spoliation, from which the citizen is protected, if not by any state
constitution at least by the Federal instrument, under which
we live and th.e provisions of which we are all bound to obey.
These matters are only alluded to for the purpose of showing the really great -practical importance of the questipn before
the court to the people of California, and of those other States
where similar statutes have been passed. .Important not alone
to the public, but also and specially important to those landowners whose lands are not only to be irrigated but are also
to be assessed for the payment of the cost of the construction
of the works necessary for supplying the water.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

This court fully appreciates the importance of the question,
and its decision has been reached after due reflection upon the
subject and after a careful examination of the authorities bearing upon it.
The form in which the question comes before the court in
this case is by appeal from a decree of the United States Circuit
Court for the Southern District of California, perpetually enjoining the collector of the irrigation district from executing
a deed conveying the land of the plaintiff, Maria King Bradley,
under a sale made of such land pursuant to the provisions of the
act under consideration. The grounds upon which relief was
sought were that the act was in violation of the Federal Constitution and also of the constitution of the State of California.
The decree is based upon the sole ground that the act violates
the Federal Constitution in that it in substance authorizes the
taking of the land of the appellee "without due process of
law." Coming before the court in this way, we are not confined in our review of the decision of the lower court within
the same limits that we would be if the case were here on error
from the judgment of a state court.
The jurisdiction of the United States Circuit Court in this
case was based upon the fact that the plaintiffs were aliens and
subjects of Great Britain, and that court therefore had the
same jurisdiction as a state court would have had to try the
whole question and to examine and decide not only as to
its conformity with the Federal Constitution, but in addition
whether the act were a violation of the state constitution, and
whether the provisions of the act itself had been complied with.
In exercising that jurisdiction it was nevertheless the duty of
the trial court to follow and be guided by the decisions of the
highest state court upon the construction of the statute, and
upon the question whether as construed the statute violated any
provision of the state constitution. The same duty rests upon
this court, and it has been so determined from the earliest
period of its history. If the act of the state legislature as construed by its highest court conflicts with the Federal Constitution or with any valid act of Congress, it is the duty of the
Circuit Court and of this court to so decide, and to thus enforce

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

155

Opinion of the Court.

the provisions of the Federal Constitution. The following
are some of the numerous cases in which this principle has
been announced and carried into effect: Shelby v. Guy, 11
Wheat. 361; .Nesmith v. Sheldon, 7 How. S12; Van Rensselaer v. Iearney, 11 Row. 297; Webster v. Cooper, 14 How.
488; Lejfingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Hagar v. Reclagnation, District .No. 108, 111 U. S. 701, 704; Detroit v, Osborne,
135 U. S. 492.
We should not be justified in holding the act to be in violation of the state constitution in the face of clear and repeated
decisions of the highest court of the State to the contrary,
under the pretext that we were deciding principles of general
constitutional law. If the act violate any provision, expressed
or properly implied, of the Federal Constitution, it is our duty
to so declare it; but if it do not, there is no justification for the
Federal courts to run counter to the decisions of- the highest
state court upon questions involving the construction of state
statutes or constitutions, on any alleged ground that such
decisions are in conflict with sound principles of general constitutional law. The contrary has not been held in this court
by the case of Zoar Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655. In
that case a statute of Kansas was held invalid because by its
provisions the property of the citizen under the guise of taxation would be taken in aid of a private enterprise, which was a
perversion of the power of taxation. The case was brought in
the United States Circuit Court for the District of Kansas, and
was decided by that court in favor of the city. There had
been no decision of the highest state court upon the question
whether the act violated the constitution of Kansas, and consequently there was none to be followed by the Federal court
upon that question. This court held, that a law taxing the
citizen for the use of a private enterprise conducted by other
citizens was an unauthorized invasion of private rights. Mr.
Justice Miller said that there were such rights in every free
government which were beyond the control of the State. The
ground of the decision was as stated, that the act took the
property of the citizen for a private purpose, although under
the forms of taxation. In thus holding, there was no over-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

ruling or refusing to follow the decisions of the highest court
of the State respecting the constitution of its own State.
We are, therefore, practically confined in this case to the
inquiry whether the act in quest-ion, as it has been construed
by the state courts, violates the Federal Constitution.
The assertion that it does is bused upon that part of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, which reads as
follows: "Nor shall any State deprive any person of life,
liberty or property without due process of law, nor deny to any
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
iReferring to the amendment, above quoted, the appellees
herein urge several objections to this act. They say, First, that
the use for which the water is to be procured is not in any
sense a public one, because it is limited to the landovtners who
may be such at the time when the water is to be apportioned,
and the interest of the public is nothing more than that indirect and collateral benefit that it derives from every improvement of a useful character that is made in the State. Second.
They assert that under the act in question the irrigation of
lands need not be limited to those which are in fact unproductive, but that by its very terms the act includes all lands
which are susceptible of one mode of irrigation from a common
source, etc., no matter how fertile or productive they may
already be, and it is denied that the furnishing of a fertilizer
for lands of individual proprietors which are already productive, in order to make them more productive, is in any legal
sense a public improvement. Third. It is also objected that
under the act the landowner has no right to demand and no
opportunity is given him for a hearing on the question whether
his land is or can be benefited by irrigation as proposed; also,
that he has no right to a hearing upon the question whether
the statute has been complied with in the preliminaries requisite to the formation of the district. Fourth. That the basis
of assessment for the cost of construction is not in accordance
with and in proportion to the benefits conferred by the improvement. And, finally, that land which cannot, in fact, be
benefited may.yet under the act be placed in one of the irrigation districts and assessed upon its value to pay the cost.of

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

157

Opinion of the Court.

construction of works which benefit others at his expense.
These are the main objections urged against the act.
It has often been said to be extremely difficult to give any
sufficient definition of what is embraced within the phrase
"due process of law," as used in the constitutional amendment under discussion. N~one will be attempted-here. It was
stated by Mr. Justice Miller, in Davidson v. ilew Orleans, 96
U. S. 97, 104, that there was "abundant evidence that there
exists some strange misconception of the scope of this provision as found in the Fourteenth Amendment. In fact it would
seem from the character of many of the cases before us and
the arguments made in them, that the clause under consideration is looked upon as a means of bringing to the test of the
decision of- this court the abstract opinions of every unsuccessful litigant in a state court of the justice of the decision
against him, and of the merits of the legislation on which such
a decision may be founded." Of course, no such jurisdiction
exists or is claimed to exist by the parties here. It is at the
same time most difficult to set certain and clear bounds to
the right of this court and consequently to its duty to review
questions arising under state legislation with reference to this
amendment as to due process of law.
It never was intended that the court should, as the effect of
the amendment, be transformed into a court of appeal, where
all decisions of state courts involving merely questions of
general justice and equitable considerations in the taking of
property should be submitted to this court for its determination. The final jurisdiction of the courts of the States would
thereby be enormously reduced and a corresponding increase
in the jurisdiction of this court would result, and it would be
a great misfortune in each case. -Mobile County v. Kimball,
102 U. S. 691, 701; Missouri Paci#c Railway v. Humes, 115
U. S. 512, 520. We reiterate the statement made in Davidson v. N3tew Orleans, supra, that "whenever by the laws of
the State or by state authority a tax, assessment, servitude
or other burden is imposed upon property for the public use,
whether it be for the whole State or of some more limited
portion of the community, and those laws provide for a mode

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of confirming or contesting the charge thus imposed in the
ordinary courts of justice, with such notice to the person or
such proceeding in regard to the property as is appropriate
to the nature of the case, the judgment in such proceedings
cannot be said to deprive the owner of his property without
due process of law, however obnoxious it may be to other
objections."
Coming to a review of these various objections, we think
the first, that the water is not for a public use, is not well
founded. The question, what constitutes a public use, has
been before the courts of many of the States and their decisions have not been harmonious, the inclination of some of
these courts being towards a narrower and more limited definition of such use than those of others.
There is no specific prohibition in the Federal Constitution
which acts upon the States in regard to their taking private
property for any but a public use. The Fifth Amendment
which provides, among other things, that such property shall
not be taken for public use without just compensation, applies
only to the Federal government, as has many times been
decided. Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131; Thoringtonr v.
Xontgomerly, 147 U. S.490. In the Fourteenth Amendment
the provision regarding the taldng of private property is
omittEd, and the prohibition against the State is confined to
its depriving any person of life, liberty or property, without
due process of law. It is claimed, however, that the citizen is
deprived of his property without due process of law, if it be
taken by or under state authority for any other than a public
use, either under the guise of taxation or by the assumption
of the right of eminent domain. In that way the question
whether private property has been taken for any other than
a public use becomes material in this court, even where the
taking is under the authority of the State instead of the
Federal government.
Is this assessment, for the non-payment of which the land
of the plaintiff was to be sold, levied for a public purpose ?
The question has, in substance, been answvered in the affirmative by the people of California, and by the legislative and

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

159

Opinion of the Court.

judicial branches of the state government. The people of the
State adopted a constitution which contains this provision:
" Mater and Water Rights - SEc. 1. The use of all water
now appropriated or that may hereafter be appropriated, for
sale, rental or distribution, is hereby declared to be a public
use and subject to the regulation and control of the State in
the manner to be prescribed by law." Constitution of California, ART. 14.
The latter part of ยง 12 of the act now under consideration,
as amended in March, 1891, reads as follows:
"The use of all water required for the irrigation of the lands
of any district formed under the provisions of this act, together
with the rights of way for canals and ditches, sites for reservoirs, and all other property required in. fully carrying out the
provisions of this act, is hereby declared to be a public use,
subject to the regulation and control of the State, in the manner prescribed by law."
The Supreme Court of California has held in a number of
cases that the irrigation act is in accordance with the state
constitution, and that it does not deprive the landowners of
any property without due process of law; that the use of the
water for irrigating purposes under the provisions of the act
is a public use, and the corporations organized by virtue of
the act for the purpose of irrigation are public municipal corporations organized for the promotion of the prosperity and
welfare of the people. Turlock Irrigation .District v. Villiams, 76 California, 360; Central -.7rigation District v. De
Lappe, 79 California, 351; In re Madera Irrigation District,
92 California, 296.
We do not assume that these various statements, constitutional and legislative, together with the decisions of the state
court, are conclusive and binding upon this court upon the
question as to what is due process of law, and, as incident
thereto, what is a public use. As here presented these are
questions which also arise under the Federal Constitution, and
we must decide them in accordance with our views of constitutional law.
It is obvious, however, that what is a public use frequently

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

and largely depends upon the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular subject-matter in regard to which the
character of the use is questioned.
To provide for the irrigation of lands in States where there
is no color of. necessity therefor within any fair meaning of
the term, and simply for the purpose of gratifying the taste
of the owner, or his desire to enter upon the cultivation of an
entirely new kind of crop, not necessary for the purpose of
rendering the ordinary cultivation of the land reasonably remunerative, might be regarded by courts as an improper
exercise of legislative will, and the use might not be held to
be public in any constitutional sense, no matter how many
owners were interested in the scheme. On the other hand, in
a State like California, which confessedly embraces millions
of acres of arid lands, an act of the legislature providing for
their irrigation might well be regarded as an act devoting the
water to a public use, and therefore as a valid exercise of the
legislative power. The people of California and the members
of her legislature must in the nature of things be more familiar with the facts and circumstances which surround the subject and with the necessities and the occasion for the irrigation
of the lands than can any one be who is a stranger to her
soil. This knowledge and familiarity must have their due
weight with the state courts which are to pass upon the question of public use in the light of the facts which surround the
subject in their own State. For these reasons, while not
regarding the matter as concluded by these various declarations and acts and decisions of the people and legislature and
courts of California, we yet, in the consideration of the subject, accord to and treat them with very great respect, and
,we regard the decisions as embodying the deliberate judgment
and matured thought of the courts of that State on this
question.
Viewing the subject for ourselves and in the light of these
considerations we have very little difficulty in coming to the
same conclusion reached by the courts of California.
The use must be regarded as a public use, or else it wofild
seem to follow that no genetal scheme of irrigation can be

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

161

Opinion of the Court.

formed or carriea into effect. In general, the water to be
used must be carried for some distance and over or through
private property which cannot be taken in inviion if the use
to which it is to be put be not public, and if there be no
power to take property by condemnation it may be impossible
to acquire it at all. The use for which private property is to
be taken must be a public one, whether the taking be by the
exercise of the right of eminent domain or by that of taxation.
Coh." v. Le Grange, 113 U. S. 1. A private company or corporation without the power to acquire the land in invgtum
would be of no real benefit, and at any rate the cost of the
undertaking would be so greatly enhanced by the knowledge
that the land must be acquired by purchase, that it would be
practically impossible to build the works or obtain the water.
Individual enterprise would be equally ineffectual; no one
owner would find it possible to construct and maintain water
works and canals any better than private corporations or companies, and unless they had the power of eminent domain
they could accomplish nothing. If that power could be conferred upon them it could only be upon the ground that the
property they took was to be taken for a public purpose.
While the consideration that the work of irrigation must be
abandoned if the use of the water may not be held to be or
constitute a public use is not to be regarded as conclusive in
favor of such use, yet that fact is in this case a most important
consideration. Millions of acres of land otherwise cultivable
must be left in their present arid and worthless condition,
and an effectual obstacle will therefore remain in the way of
the advance of a large portion of the State in material wealth
and prosperity. To irrigate and thus to bring into possible
cultivation these large masses of otherwise worthless lands
would seem to be a public purpose and a matter of public
interest, not confined to the landowners, or even to any one
section of the State. The fact that the use of the water is
limited to the landowner is not therefore a fatal objection to
this legislation. It is not essential that the entire community
or even any considerable portion thereof should directly enjoy
or participate in an improvement in order to constitute a
VOL. CLXIV-11

OCTOBER TERMf, 1896.
Opinion.of the Court.

public use. All landowners in the district have the right to a
proportionate share of the water, and no one landowner is
favored above his fellow in his right to the use of the water.
It is n6t necessary, in order that the use shoulil be public, that
every resident in the district should have the right to the use
of the water. The water is not used for general, domestic or
for drinking purposes, and it is plain from the scheme of the
act that the water is intended for the use of those who will
have occasion to use it on their lands. Nevertheless, if it
should so happen that at any particular time the landowner
should have more water than he wanted to useon his land, he
has the right to sell or assign the surplus or the whole of the
water as he may choose.
The method of the distribution of the water for irrigation
purposes, provided for in section 11 of the act, is criticised as
amounting to a distribution to individuals and not to lands,
and on that account it is claimed that the use for irrigation
may not be achieved, and therefoe the only purpose which
could render the use a public one may not exist. This claim
we consider iot well founded in the language and true construction of the act. It is plain that some method for apportioning the use of the water to the various lands to be
benefited must be employed, and what better plan than to
say that it shall be apportioned ratably to each landowner
upon the basis which the last assessment of such owner for
district purposes within the district bears to the whole sum
assessed upon the district? Such an apportionment, when
followed by the right to assign the whole or any poition of
the waters apportioned to the landowner, operates. with as
near an approach to justice and equality as can be hoped for
in such matters, and does not alter the use from a public to a
private one. This right of assignment may be availed of
also by the owner of any lands which, in his judgment, would
not be benefited by irrigation, although the board of supervisors may have otherwise decided. We think it clearly
appears that all who by reason of their ownership of or connection with any portion of the lands would have occasion to
use the water, would in truth have the opportunity to use it

FLLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

163

Opinion of the Court.

upon the same terms as all others similarly situated. In this
way the use, so far as this point is concerned, is public because
all persons have the right to use the water under the same
circumstances. This is sufficient.
The case does not essentially differ from that of Hagar v.
Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701, where this court held
that the power of the legislature of California to prescribe a
system for reclaiming swamp lands was not inconsistent with
any provision of the Federal Constitution. The power does
not rest simply upon the ground that the reclamation must be
necessary for the public health. That indeed is one ground
for interposition by the State, but not the only one. Statutes
authorizing drainage of swamp lands have frequently been
upheld independently of any effect upon the public health, as
reasonable regulations for the general advantage of those
who are treated for this purpose as owners of a common property. RleadZ v. Amoskeag .fa1nufacturing Co., 113 U. S. 9, 22;
Ifurtz v. Iloaglancd, 114 U. S. 606, 611; Cooley on Taxation,
617, 2d ed. If it be essential or material for the prosperity of
the community, and if the improvement be one in which all
the landowners have to a certain extent a common interest,
and the improvement cannot be accomplished without the
concurrence of all or nearly all of such owners by reason
of the peculiar natural condition of the tract sought to be
reclaimed, then such reclamation may be made and the land
rendered useful to all and at their joint expense. In such
case the absolute right of each individual owner of land must
yield to a certain extent or be modified by corresponding
rights on the part of other owners for what is declared upon
the whole to be for the public benefit.
Irrigation is not so different from the reclamation of swamps
as to require the application of other and different principles
to the case. The fact that in draining swamp lands it is a
necessity to drain the lands of all owners which are similarly
situated, goes only to the extent of the peculiarity of situation
and the kind of land. Some of the swamp lands may not be
nearly so wet and worthless as some others, and yet all may
be so situated as to be benefited by the reclamation, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1S96.
Opinion of the Court.

whether it is so situated or not must be a .question of fact.
The same reasoning applies to land which is, to some extent,
arid instead of wet. Indeed, the general principle that arid
lands may be provided with water and the cost thereof provided for by a general tax or by an assessment for local
improvement upon the lands. benefited, seems to be admitted
by counsel for the appellees. This necessarily assumes the
proposition that water used for irrigation purposes upon landswhich are actually arid is used for a public purpose, and the tax
to pay for it is collected for a public use, and the assessment
upon lands benefited is also levied for a public purpose.
Taking all the facts into consideration, as already touched
upon, we have no doubt that the irrigation of really arid lands
is a public purpose, and the water thus used is put to a public
use.
Second. The second objection *urged by the appellees herein
is that the operations of this act need not be and are not
limited to arid, unproductive lands but include within its
possibilities all lands, no matter how fertile or productive, so
long as they are susceptible "in their natural state" of one
mode of irrigation from a common source, etc. The words " in
their natural state" are interpolated in the text of the statute,
by the counsel for the appellees, on the assumption that the
Supreme Court of California has thu construed the act in .Modesto Irrigation District v. Tregea, 88 California, 334. The
objection had been made in that case that it was unlawful to
include the city of Modesto in an irrigation district. The court,
per Chief Justice Beatty, said that the legislature undoubtedly
intended that cities and towns should in proper cases be
included in irrigation districts, and that the act as thus construed did not violate the state constitution. The learned
Chief Justice also said:
"The idea of a city or town is of course associated with the
existence of streets to a greater or less extent, lined with shops
and stores, as well as of dwelling-houses, but it is also a notorious fact that in many of the towns and cities of California
there are gardens and orchards inside the corporate boundaries,
requiring irrigation, It is equally notorious that in many dis-

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

165

Opinion of the Court.

tricts lying outside bf the corporate limits of any city or town
there are not only roads and highways, but dwelling- houses,
outhouses, warehouses, and shops. With respect to these
things, which determine the usefulness of irrigation, there is
only a difference of degree between town and country.
It being equally clear and notorious as matter of fact that
there are cities and towns which not only may be benefited by
irrigation, but actually have in profitable use extensive systems
for irrigating lands within their corporate limits, it cannot be
denied that the supervisors of Stanislaus County had the
power to determine that the lands comprising the city of
Modesto would be benefited by irrigation and might be
included in an irrigation district.
"In the nature of things, an irrigation district must cover
an extensive tract of land, and no matter how purely rural
and agricultual the community may be, there must exist
here and there within its limits a shop or warehouse covering
a limited extent of ground that can derive no direct benefit
from the use of water for irrigation. Here, again, the difference between town and country is one of degree only, and a
decision in the interest of the shop owners in towns, that their
lots cannot be included in an irrigation district, would necessarily cover the case of the owner of similar property outside of a town. It is nowhere contended by the appellant
that in organizing irrigation districts it is the duty of the
supervisors to exclude by demarcation every tract or parcel of
land that happens to be covered by a building or other structure which unfits it for cultivation, and certainly the law could
not be so construed without disregarding many of its express
provisions, and at the same time rendering it practically inoperative. We construe the law to mean that the board may
include in the boundaries of the district all lands which in.
their natural state would be benefited by irrigation and are
susceptible of irrigation by one system, regardless of the fact
that buildings or other structures may have been erected here
and there upon small lots, which are thereby rendered unfit
for cultivation at the same time that their value for other
purposes may have been greatly enhanced."

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

We do not see in this construction, the meaning of which is
apparent from the foregoing quotations from the opinion, any
substantial difference, favorable to the appellees, from the act
without the .interpolation of those words.
As an evidence of what can be, done under the act it is
alleged in the complaint in this suit that the plaintiff is the
owner of forty acres of land in the district, and that it is
worth $5000, and that it is subject to beneficial use without
the necessity of water for irrigation, and that it has been used
beneficially for the past several years for purposes other than
cultivation with irrigation. These allegations are admitted
by the answer of the, defendants, who nevertheless assert that
if a sufficient supply of water is obtained for the irrigation
of the plaintiff's land, the same can be beneficially used for
many purposes other than that for which it can be used without the water for irrigating the same.
What is the limit of the power of the legislature in regard
to providing for irrigation? Is it bounded by the absolutely
worthless condition of the land without the artificial irrigation? Is it confined to.land which cannot otherwise be made
to yield the smallest particle of a return for the labor bestowed
upon it? If not absolutely worthless and incapable of growing any valuable thing without the water, how valuable may
the land be and to what beneficial use and to what extent may
it be put. before it reaches the point at which the legislature
has no power to provide for its improvement by that means?
The general power of the legislature over the subject of providing for the irrigation of certain kinds ,of lands iiiust be
admitted and assumed. The further questions of limitation,
as above propounded, are somewhat legislative in their nature,
although subject to the scrutiny and judgment of the courts
to the extent that it must appear that the use intended is a
public use as that expression has been defined relatively to
this kind of legislation.
The legislature by this act has not itself named any irrigation district, and, of course, has not decided as to the nature
and quality of any specific lands which have been included in
any such district. It has given a general statement as to what

FALLBROK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

16"

Opinion of the Court.

conditions must exist m order to permit the inclusion of any
land within a district. The land which can properly be so included is, as we think, sufficiently limited in its character by
the provisions of the act. It must be susceptible of one mode
of irrigation, from a common source and by the same system
of works, and it must be of such a character that it will be
benefited by irrigation by the system to be adopted. This,
as we think, means that the amount of benefit must be substantial and not limited to the creation of an opportunity to
thereafter use the land for a new kind of crop, while not
substantially benefiting it for the cultivation of the old kind,
which it had produced in reasonable quantities and with
ordinary certainty and success, without the aid of artificial
irrigation. The question whether any particular land would
be thus benefited is necessarily one of fact.
The legislature not having itself described the district, has
not decided that any particular land would or could possibly
be benefited as described, and, therefore, it would be necessary to give a hearing at some time to those interested upon
the question of fact whether or not the land of any owner
which was intended to be included would be benefited by the
irrigation proposed. If such a hearing were provided for by
the act, the decision of the tribunal thereby created would be
sufficient. Whether it is provided for will be discussed when
we come to the question of the proper construction of the act
itself. If land which can, to a certain extent, be beneficially
used without artificial irrigation, may yet be so much improved by it that it will be thereby and for its original use
substantially benefited, and, in addition to the former use,
though not in exclusion of it, if it can then be put to other'
and more remunerative uses, we think it erroneous to say that
the furnishing of artificial irrigation to that kind of land cannot be, in a legal sense, a public improvement, or the use of
the water a public use.
Assuming for the purpose of this objection that the owner
of these lands had by the provisions of the act, and before the
lands were finally included in the district, an opportunity to
be heard before a proper tribunal upon the question of bene-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

fits, we are of opinion that. the decision of such a tribunal, in
the absence of actual fraud and bad faith, would be, so far as
this court is concerned, conclusive upon that question. It cannot be that upon a question of fact of such a nature this court
has the powet to review the decision of the state tribunal
which has been pronounced under a statute providing for a
hearing upon notice. The erroneous decision of such a question of fact violates no constitutional provision. The Circuit
Court in this case has not assumed to undertake any such.
review of a question of fact.
The difference between this case and the case of Spencer v.
.Merchsant,125 U. S. 345, is said by counsel for appellees to
consist in the fact that in the Spencer case the lands in question might have been benefited, while here the additional
benbfit to land already capable of beneficial use without irrigation is in no legal or proper sense a benefit which can be
considered for the purpose of an assessment. We think this
alleged difference is not material. It is in each case one of
degree only, and the fact of the benefld is by the act to be
determined after a hearing by the board of supervisors. In
this case the board has nebessarily decided that question in
favor of the fact of benefits by retaining the lands in the district. Unless this court is prepared to review all questions of
fact of this nature decided by a state tribunal, where the
claim is made that the judgment was without any evidence to
support it or was against the evidence, then we must be concluded hy the judgment on such a question of fact, and treat
the legal question as based upon the facts as found by the
state board. Due process, of law is not violated, and the
equal protection of the laws is given, when the ordinary
course is pursued in such proceedings for the assessment and
collection of taxes that has been customarily followed in the
State, and where the party who may subsequently be charged
in his property has had a hearing or an opportunity for one
provided by the statute. llelly v. PittsbuZrg,10-.U. S. 78.
In view of the finding, of the board of supervisors on this
question of benefits, assuming that there has been one, this
court cannot say as a matter of law that the lands of the

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

169

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff in this case have not been or cannot be benefited by
this proposed irrigation. There can be no doubt that the
board of supervisors (if it have power to hear the question of
benefits, as to which sometting will be said under another
head of this discussion) would be a proper and sufficient tribunal to satisfy the constitutional requirement in such case.
In speaking of a board of supervisors, Mr. Chief Justice
Waite in ipring VFalley Water Works Company v. Schottler,
110 U. S. 347, 354, said: "Like every other tribunal established by the legislature for such a purpose, their duties are
judicial in their nature, and they are bound in morals and in
law to exercise an honest judgment as to all matters submitted for their official determination. It is not to be presumed th.at they will act otherwise than according to this
rule." In that case the board was to fix the price of water,
while in this it is to determine the fact of benefits to lands.
The principle is the same in each case.
It may be that the action of the board upon any question
of fact as to contents or sufficiency of the petition, or upon any
other fact of a jurisdictional nature, is open to review in the
state courts. It would seem to. be so held in the Tegea case
decided in 1891. 88 California, 334.
If the state courts would have had the right to review
these findings of fact, jurisdictional in their nature, the United
States Circuit Court had the same right in this case, but it has
not done so, its judgment being based upon the sole ground
that the act was a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Federal Constitution. Upon the question of fact as to
benefits, decided by the board, it is held in the Tregea ease
that its decision is conclusive. 88 California, supra. Whether
a review is or is not given upon any of these questions of
fact (if the tribunal created by the State had power to decide
them, and if an opportunity for a hearing were given by the
act), is a mere question 6f legislative -discretion. It is not
constitutionally necessary in such cases to give a rehearing
or an appeal. .Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22; Pearson v.
Yewdall, 95 U. S. 294.
Very possibly a decision by the statutory tribunal which in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

eluded tracts of land within the district that plainly could not
by any fair or proper view of the facts be benefited by irrigation, would be the subject of a review in some form and of a
reversal by the courts, on the ground that the decision was
based not alone upon no evidence in its favor, but that it was
actually opposed to all the evidence and to the plain and uncontradicted facts of common knowledge, and was given in
bad faith. In such case the decision would not have been the
result of fair or honest, although grossly mistaken judgment,
but would be one based upon bad faith and fraud, and so
could not be conclusive in the nature of things. A question"
of this kind would involve no constitutional element, and its
solution would depend upon the ordinary jurisdiction of courts
of justice over this class of cases. It is not pretended that
such jurisdiction has been invoked or exercised here. As was
said b' Mr. Justice Miller in Davidson v. -New Orleans,supra,
where the objection was made that part of the property was
not in fact benefited, " this is a matter of detail with which
this court cannot interfere if it were clearly so; but it is hard
to fix a limit within these two parishes where property would
not be benefited by the removal of the swamps and marshes
which are within their bounds."' To the same effect, Spencer v.
Jilerchant,125 U. S. 345; Lent v. Tillson, 140 U. S. 316, 333.
In regard to the matters thus far discussed, we see no valid
objection to the act in question.
Third. We come now to the question of the true construction of the act. Does it provide for a -hearing as to whether
the petitioners are of the class mentioned and described in the
act and as to their compliance with the conditions of the act
in regard to the proceedings prior to the presentation of the
petition for the formation of the district? Is there any
opportunity provided for a hearing upon notice to the landowners interested in the question whether their lands *ill be
benefited by the proposed irrigation? We think the right to
a hearing in regard to all these facts is given by the act, and
that it has been practically so construed by the Supreme
Court of California in some of. the cases, above cited from the
reports of that court and in the cases cited in the briefs of

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

171

Opinion of the Court.

counsel. We should come to the same conclusion from a
perusal of the act. The first two sections provide for the
petition and a hearing. The petition is to be signed by a
majority of the holders of title to lands susceptible of one
mode of irrigation, etc. This petition is to be presented to
the board of supervisors at a regular meeting, and notice of
intended presentation must be published two weeks before the
time at which it is to be presented. The board shall hear the
same, shall establish anid define the boundaries,; although it
cannot modify those described in the petition, so as to except
from the district lands susceptible of irrigation by the same
system of works applicable to the other lands in the proposed
district, and the board cannot include in the district, even
though included in the description in the petition, lands which
shall not, in the judgment of the board, be benefited by
irrigation by said system.
If the board is to hear the petition upon notice, and is not
to include land which will not, in its judgment, be benefited
by irrigation by the system, we think it follows as a necessary
and a fair implication that the persons interested in or who
may be affected by the proposed improvement, have the right
under the notice to appear before the board and contest the
facts upon which the petition is basod, and also the fact of
benefit to any particular land included in the description of
the proposed district.
It is not an accurate construction of the statute to say that
no opportunity is afforded the landowner to test the sufficiency of the petition in regard to the signers thereof and in
regard to the other conditions named in the act; nor is it
correct to say that the power of the board of supervisors is,
in terms, limited to making such changes in the boundaries
proposed by the petitioners as it may deem proper, subject to
the conditions named in the act.
When the act speaks of a hearing of the petition, what is
meant by it? Certainly it must extend to a hearing of the
facts stated in the petition, and whether those who sign it are
sufficient in number and are among the class of persons mentioned in the act as alone having the right to sign the same.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

,The obvious purpose of the publication of the notice of the
intended presentation of the petition is to give those who are
in any way interested in the proceeding an opportunity to
appear before the board and be heard upon all,the questions
of fact, including the question of benefits to lands described
in the petition. As there is to be a hearing before the boad,
and the board is not to include any lands which in its judgment will not be benefited, the plain construction of the act i
that the hearing before the board includes the question as to
the benefits of the lands, because that is one of the conditions
upon which the final determination Of the board is based, and
the act cannot in reason be so construed as to provide that
-while the board is to give a hearing on the petition it must
nevertheless decide in favor of the petitioners, and must establish and define the boundaries of the district, although the
signers may not be fifty, or a majority of the holders of title,
as provided by the act, and notwithstanding some other defect
may become apparent upon the hearing.
This provision that the board "shall establish and define
such boundaries" (section 2) cannot reasonably' or properly
be held to mean that the boundaries must be established notwithstanding any or all of the defects above mentioned have
been proved upon the hearing. The language of the sections
taken together plainly implies that the board is to establish
and define the boundaries only in case the necessary facts
appear upon the hearing which the act provides for.
It cannot be supposed that the act, while providing for a
hearing of the petition, yet, at the same time, commands the
establishment and defin'ing of the boundaries of a district,
notwithstanding the fact that the hearing shows a failure
on the part of the petitioners to coinply with some or all of
the conditions upon which the right to organize is placed by
the same act.
Such an absurdity cannot be imputed to the legislature. It
cann6t be doubted that, by the true construction of the act,
the board of supervisors is not only entitled, but it is its duty,
to entertain a contest by a landowner in respect to the question whether the signers of the petition fulfil the requirements

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

173

Opinion of the Court.

described *in the first section of the act, and if the board find
in favor of the contestant upon that issue, it is the duty of the
board, under the provisions of the statute, to deny the petition
and dismiss the proceedings. Otherwise, what is the hearing
for? And if upon a hearing of the question of benefits to
any land described in the petition it appears to the board
that such lands will not be benefited, it is the duty of the
board to sodecide, and to exclude the lands from the district.
The inclusion of any lands is, therefore, in and of itself a
determination (after an opportunity for a hearing) that they
will be benefited by the proposed irrigation.
We have said that the Supreme Court of California has
substantially decided these questions in the same way. This
appears, among others, in the case of the -Modesto krigation
.Distriet v. Tr'egea, abo.ve referred to. The court uses this
language in that case:
"The formation of irrigation districts is accomplished by
proceedings so closely analogous to those prescribed for the
formation of swamp-land reclamation districts that the decisions with respect to the latter are authority as to the former,
and we cite as conclusive on this point People v. Hagar, 52
California, 181; S. . 66 California, 60. Many decisions to
the same effect are cited in the briefs of counsel, but we deem
it unnecessary to refer to them here."
In the case of People v. Hagar, 52 California, 171, 182, it
was held that the board of supervisors, on presentation of the
petition, was to hear and determine the question of jurisdiction, and whether the allegations of the petition were true.
An approval and confirmation of the petition and the establishment of the district was held to be a conclusive judgment
by the board that the lands mentioned and in question were
swamp lands; that the petitioners held the proper evidences
of title thereto, and that the lands would be benefited by the
reelarnation. These jurisdictional facts, it was held, must
exist before the district could lawfully be established.
The provision for a hearing in the irrigation act is similar,
and the condition therein that lands which in the judgment
of the board are not benefited shall not be included, renders

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinioh of the Court.

the determination of the board including them after a hearing a judgment that such lands will be benefited by the
proposed plan of irrigation.
The publication of a notice of the proposed presentation
of the petition is a sufficient notification to those interested
in the question and gives them an opportunity to be heard
before the board. Itagar v. Reclamation Ditrict,111 U. S.
701; Lent v. Tillson, 140 U. S. 316;. Paue v. Portland,
149 U. S. 30.
The formation of one of these irrigation districts amounts to
the creation of a public corporation, and their officers are public
officers. This has been held in the Supreme Court of California. In re Hadera rrigationDistrict, 92 California, 296;
Peoptle'v. Selma District,98 California, 206.
There is nothing in the essential nature of such a corporation, so far as its creation only is concerned, which requires
notice to.or hearing of the parties included therein before it
can be formed. It is created-for a public purpose, and it rests
in the discretion of the legislature when to create it, and with
what powers to endow it.
In the act under consideration, however, the establishment
of its boundaries and the purposes for which the district is
created, if it be finally organized by reason of the approving
vote of the people, will almost necessarily be followed by and
result in an assessment upon all the lands included within the
boundaries of the district. The legislature thus in substance
provides for the creation not alone of a public corporation,
but of a taxing district whose boundaries are fixed, not by
the legislature, but, after a hearing, by the board of supervisors, subject to the final approval by the people in an
-election called for that purpose. It has been held in this
court that the legislature has power to fix such a district for
itself without any hearing as to benefits, for the purpose of
assessing upon the lands within the district the cost of a
local, public improvement. The legislature, when it fixes the
district itself, is supposed to have made proper inquiry, and to
have finally and conclusively determined the fact of benefits
to the land included in the district, and the citizen has no con-

FALLBROK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

175

Opinion of the Court.

stitutional right to any other or further hearing upon that
question. The right which he thereafter has is to a hearing
upon the question of what is termed the apportionment of the
tax, i.e., the amount of the tax which he is to pay. Pause
v. Portland,149 U. S. 30, 41. But when as in this case the
determination of the question of what lands shall be included
in the district is only to be decided after a decision as to what
lands described in the petition will be benefited, and the decision of that question is submitted to some tribunal (the board
of supervisors in this case), the parties whose lands are thus
included in the petition are entitled to a hearing upon the
question of benefits, and to have the lands excluded if the
judgment of the board be against their being benefited.
Unless the legislature decide the question of benefits itself,
the landowner has the right to be heard upon that question
before his property can be taken. This, in substance, was
determined by the decisions of this court in Spencer v. -Merchant, 125 U. S. 345, 356, and TMalston v. Nevin, 128 U. S. 578.
Such a hearing upon notice is duly provided for in the act.
Then, as to a hearing upon the question of apportionment,
the act, in sections 18, 20 and 21, provides a general scheme for
the assessment upon the property included in the district, and
it also provides for a notice by publication of the making of
such assessment, and an opportunity is given to the taxpayer
to be heard upon the question of the valuation and assessment,
and to make such objections thereto as he may think proper,
and after that the assessors are to decide.
Thus the act provides for a hearing of the landowner both
as to the question whether his land will be benefited by the
proposed irrigation, and when that has been decided in favor
of the benefit, then upon the question of the valuation and
assessment of and upon his land included in the district. As
to other matters, the district can be created without notice to
any one. Our conclusion is that the act, as construed, with
reference to the objections considered under this third head,
is unassailable.
Fourth. The fourth objection and also the objection above
alluded to as the final one, may be discussed together, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

they practically cover the same principle. it is insisted that
the basis of the assessment upon the lands benefited, for the
cost of the construction of the works, is not in accordance with
and in proportion to the benefits conferred by the improvement, and, therefore, there is a violation of the constitutional
amendment referred to, and a taking of the property of the
citizen without due process of law.
Although there is a marked distinction between an assessment for a local improvement and the levy of a general tax,
yet the former is still the exercise of the same power as the
latter, both having their source in the sovereign power of
taxation. Whatever objections may be urged to this kind
of an assessment, as being in violation of the state constitution, yet as the state court has held them to be without force,.
we .follow its judgment in that case, and our attention must
be directed to the question whether any violation of the
Federal Constitution is shown in such an assessment. Can.
an ad valorem assessment on the land benefited, or, in other
words, can such an assessment as is provided for in sections
18, 20, 21 and 22 of the act. be legally levied in such a case
as this? Assume that the only theory of these assessments
for local improvements upon whidh they can stand is that
they are imposed on account of the benefits received, and
that no land ought in justice to be assessed for a greater sum
than the benefits. received by it, yet it is plain that the fact
of the amount of benefits is not susceptible of that accurate
determination which appertains to a demonstration in geometry. Some means of arriving at this. amount must be used,
and the same method may be more or less accurate in different
cases involving different facts. Some choice is to be made, and
where the fact of some benefit accruing to all the lands has been
legally found, can it be that th a adoption of an ad valorem
method of assessing the lands is to be held a violation of the
Federal Constitution? It seems to us clearly not. It is one of
those matters of detail in arriving at the proper and fair amount
and proportion of the tax that is to be levied on the land with
regard to the benefits it has received, which is open to the discretion of the state legislaturd, and with which this court ought

FALLBROOK IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. BRADLEY.

177

Opinion of the Court.

to have nothing to do. The way of arriving at the amount
may be in some instances inequitable and unequal, but that is
far from rising to the level of a constitutional problem and far
from a case of taking property without due process of law.
In the case of .Davidonv. New Orleans, 8upra, the assessment, with which this court refused to interfere', was for a
local improvement (reclaiming swamp lands), and by ยง 8 of
the act of the legislature of Louisiana, passed -in 1858, Laws
of Louisiana, 1858, 114, such an uniform assessment was levied
upon "the superficial or square foot of lands situate within the
draining section or district of such board as would pay for
the cost of cbnstruction. The effect of this provision was that
each foot of land in the whole district.paid the same sum as
any other foot, although the assessment was founded upon the
theory of an assessment for benefits. It was complained that
the amount assessed upon plaintiff's lands was excessive, and
that part of them received no benefit at all, and it was to that
argument that the reply was made that it was a matter of
detail so far as this court was concerned, i.e., it was not a
constitutional question, and therefore was not reviewable here.
96 U. S. at page 106.
In IMalstom v. N'evin, 18 U. S. 578, an assessment was
laid upon lands for benefits received from construction of a
local improvement, according to the number of square feet
owned by the landowner. It was urged that it was not an
assessment governed by the amount of benefits received, but
was an absolutely arbitrary and illegal method of assessment.
This court held the objection not well founded and that the
matter was for the decision of the legislature, to which body
the discretion was committed of providing for payment of the
improvement.
We refer to the case of Cleveland v. Tripp, 13 R. I. 59,
decided in 1880, as one which treats this subject with much
ability. The act provided for the construction of a sewer in
the city of Providence and directed the laying of an assessment upon the abutting lands of a certain sum for each front
foot and another sum for each square foot extending back 150
feet. The claim was made that such a mode of assessment
VOL. cLnxxv-12

OCTOBER TERM, 196.
Opision -of the Court.

did not apply the tax in proportion to the benefits received,
and was unequal and unfair, and therefore unconstitutional.
The court, while admitting the complaints of inequality to be
-well founded, yet held the act tQ be within the power of the
legislature.
There ard some States where assessments under such circumstances as here exist and made upon an ad valorem basis have
been held invalid, as an infringement of some provision of the
state constitution, or in violation of the act under which they
were levied. Counsel have cited several such in the briefs
herein filed. We do not discover, and our attention has not
been called to any case in this court where such an assessment
has been held to violate any provision of the Federal Constitution. If it .do not, this court can grant no relief.
The niethod of assessment here provided for may not be the
best which could have been adopted in order to accomplish the
most equal and exact justice which the nature of the case
lpermits. But none the less we are unable to say that it runs
counter to any provision of the Federal Constitution, and we
must for that reason hold the objection here considered to be
untenable.
An objection is also urged that it is delegating to others a
legislative right, that of the incorporating of public corporations, inasmuch as the act vests in the supervisors and the
people the right to say whether such a corporation shall be
created, and it is said that the legislature cannot so delegate
its power, and that any act performed by such a corporation
by means of which the property of the citizen is taken from
him, either by the right of eminent domain or by assessment,
results in taking such prop6rty without due process of law.
We do not think there is any validity to the argument. The
legislature delegates no power. It enacts conditions upon the
performance of which the corporation shall be regarded as
organized with the powers mentioned and described in the
act:
After careful scrutiny of the objections to this act we are
compdlled to the conclusion that none of such objections is
well taken. The judgment appealed from herein is therefore

TREGEA v. 2NI0DESTO IRRIGATION DISTRICT.

179

Statement of the Case.

.Reversed and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court of the
United Statesfor the ,gouthern,Districtof Californiafor
further proceedingsnot inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIOE FULLER and MR. JUSTiE FIELD dissented.

TREGEA v. MODESTO IRRIGATION DISTRICT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 13. Argued January23, 24, 21, 1696.

Decided November 16, 1696.

The laws of California authorize the bringing of an action in its courts by
the board of directors of an irrigation district, to secure a judicial determination as to the validity of the proceedings of the board concerning a proposed issue of bonds of the district, in advance of their issue.
The Modesto District was duly organized under the laws of the State,
and its directors, having defined the boundaries of the district, and having determined upon an issue of bonds for the purpose of, carrying out
the objects for which it was created, as defined by the laws of the State,
commenced proceedings in a court of the State, seeking a judicial determination of the validity of the bonds which it proposed to issue. A
resident of the district appeared and filed an answer. After a hearing,
In which the defendant contended that tile judgment asked for would be
in violation of the Constitution of the United States, the proceedings
resulted in a judgment in favor of the district. Appeal being taken to
the Supreme Court of the State, it was there adjudged that the proceedigs were regular, and the judgment, with some modifications, was sustained. The case being brought here by writ of error, it is Held, that.a
Federal question was presented by the record, but that the proceeding
was only one to secure evidence; that in the securing of such evidence
no right protected by the Constitution of the United States was invaded;
that the State might determine for itself in what way it would secure
evidence of the regularity of the proceedings of any of its municipal
corporations; and that unless in the course of such proceedings some
constitutional right was denied to the individual, this court could not
interfere on the ground that the evidence might thereafter be used in
some further action in which there might be adversary claims.

ON March 7, 1887, the legislature of the State of California
passed an act, (Stat. Cal. 1887, 29,) whose scope and purpose
were disclosed in the first section:

