McCLELLAN v. CHIPM&N.
Statement of the Case.

grantees to the claims of 'persons who have no vested rights
under the premption laws. Such claims would, in the present case, oust the townsite settlers from large portions of the
grant, and defeat the manifest purpose of Congress.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Arizona is
_Affirmed.

McCLELLAN v. CHIPMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.

TRADERS' BANK v. CHIPMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
Nos. 85, 36. Argued April 28, 29,1896. - Decided November 30, 1S96.

The provisions of §§ 96 and 98 of c. 157 of the Public Statutes of Massachusetts, invalidating preferences made by insolvent debtors and assignments or transfers made in contemplation of insolvency, do not conflict
with the provisions contained in Rev. Stat. §§ 5136 and 5137, relating to

national banks and to mortgages of real estate made to them in good
faith by way of security for debts previously contracted, and are valid
when applied to claims of such banks against insolvent debtors.
National Bank 'v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353, affirmed to the point that it
is only when a state law incapacitates a national bank from discharging
its duties to the government that it becomes unconstitutional: and Davis
v. Elmira 8avings Bank, 161 U. S. 275, affirmed to the point that national
banks are instrumentalities of the Federal government, created for a
public purpose, and as such necessarily subject to the paramount authority of the United States: and the two distinct propositions held to be
harmonious.
THE Traders' National Bank, a corporation organized under
the banking laws of the United States, carried on its business
in the city of Boston. The firm of Dudley Hall & Company,
composed of Dudley Hall and Dudley C. Hall, were likewise
engaged in business in Boston, and were customers of the
bank, having a deposit account therein. By an understanding between the bank and the firm, made to induce thea latter

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

to keep its deposit account with the former, the firm was to
be considered as entitled to a line of discount on its paper to
the extent of $20,000. " On the 16th of October, 1890, the
partnership then being in the enjoyment of its full agreed
line of discount, borrowed from the bank an additional sum
of $12,500, which was evidenced by a note of Dudley 0. Hall
at one month, endorsed by the firm and secured by the pledge
of certain shares.of the fftna Mining Company and by two
notes of that company, amounting to about $2500. When
this note matured, on the 16th of November, 1890, a new demand note in an equal amount.was given in renewal thereof
and was secured by the same collaterals. On the 17th of
December, 1890, payment of this note was demanded, and the
debtor being unable to meet it a new note at two months was
given, the sum thereof was passed to the credit of the firm,
and the old note was debited, cancelled and surrendered.
This new note was drawn like the preceding one by Hall
and endorsed by the firm, and was secured, not only by the
same collaterals, but also by a conveyance of two pieces of
land made by Dudley 0. Hall to A. D. McClellan, a director
of the bank, he giving to Hall a writing, in which it was
declared that the conveyance was made for the sole purpose
of securing the note held by the bank, and that on its payment the land would be retransferred. In March, 1891, the
firm suspended payment, and the members thereof were adjudged to be insolvent under the insolvency laws of the State
of Massachusetts, and made to their assignees, an assignment
of all their property, as required by the statutes of the State.
In May the assignees brought a writ of entry against McClellan to recover the two pieces of land.
Sections 96 and 98 of chapter 157 of the Public Statutes
of the State of Massachusetts, relied on by the assignees to
sustain their action to recover the land, are as follows:
"SEc. 96. If a person, being insolvent or in contemplation
of insolvency, within six months before the filing of the petition by or against him, with a view to give a preference to a
creditor or person who has a claim against him, or is under
any liability for him, procures any part of his property to be

McOLELLAN v. OHIPMAN.
Statement of the Case.

attached, sequestered or seized on execution, or makes any
payment, pledge, assignment, transfer or conveyance of any
part of his property, either directly or indirectly, absolutely
or conditionally, the person receiving such payment, pledge,
assignment, transfer or conveyance, or to be benefited thereby,
having reasonable cause to believe such person is insolvent or
in contemplation of insolvency, and that such payment, pledge,
assignment or conveyance is made in fraud of the laws relating
to insolvency, the same shall be void; and the assignees may
recover the property or the value of it from the person so
receiving it or so to be benefited."
"SEc. 9S. If a person, .being insolvent or in contemplation
of insolvency, within six months before the filing of the petition by or against him, makes a sale, assignment, transfer
or other conveyance of any description of any part of his
property to a person who then has reasonable cause to believe
him to be insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency, and
that such sale, assignment, transfer or other conveyance is
made with a view to prevent the property from coming to his
assignee in insolvency, or to prevent the same from being distributed under the laws relating to insolvency, or to defeat the
object of, or in any way to impair, hinder, impede or delay
the operation and effect of, or to evade any of said provisions,
the sale, assignment, transfer or conveyance thereof shall be
void, and the assignee may recover the property or the value
thereof as assets of the insolvent. And if such sale, assignment, transfer or conveyance is not made in the usual and
ordinary course of business of the debtor, that fact shall be
priwafacie evidence of such .cause of belief."
The action was tried before a jury and there was a verdict
in favor of the surviving assignee, and exceptions wuere filed
and allowed. Whilst these exceptions were pending before
the Supreme Judicial Court, the Traders' Bank filed its bill
in equity against the surviving assignee of- the estate of
Dddley 0. Hall and Dudley Hall and A. D. McClellan, setting up its right under the conveyance made to McClellan,,
the bringing of the writ of entry and the fact that the bank
had not been made party defendant therein. The bill charged

OCTOBEIR TEIE,

1896.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

that the complainant, as a national bank, was entitled to take
the conveyance of the real estate to secure the debt of Hall,
and that the provisions of the statutes of Massachusetts which
were relied on by the assignees were in conflict with sections
5136, 5137, Revised Statutes of the United States. The bill
prayed that the assignee and McClellan be permanently enjoined from proceeding under the writ of entry and the exceptions filed therein, and McClellan be ordered to apply the
proceeds of the property to the payment of the note and loan
secured thereby. After due pleading the issues tendered
were reported by the presiding justice for the consideration
of the full court upon certain questions of law reserved, and
the full court affirmed the verdict of the jury and judgment thereon in the writ of entry case and dismissed the bill
in equity.
So far as concerned the Federal question, the court held
that there was no conflict between sections 5136, 5137 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, and sections 96 and 98
of chapter 157 of the Public Statutes of Massachusetts. Both
cases were brought here by writ,of error.
.Mr. Almon A. Strout and MrT. William H. Coolidge for
plaintiff in error. AL'. I J. Jaquit was on their brief.
The provisions of sections 96 and 98 of the Massachusetts
statute are inconsistent with the letter and spirit of sections
5136 and 5137 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
and tend to impair the operations of'a national bank organized
thereunder in taking security for its debts, whereby itis enabled
to preserve its assets and ensure its stability and efficiency in
carrying out the purposes for which it was organized, thereby
rendering effectual the end for which these statutes were
enacted.
The decisions of the English courts are not in point, owing
to the difference of-the structure of the two systems of government, and this question, in the precise form in which it
is now presented, has never been directly adjudicated in the
courts of the United States. But we claim that the principle

McCLELLAN v. CHIPMAN.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

involved has been decided in favor of the contention of the
plaintiff in error.
In considering the question as to whether there is such
inconsistency and conflict as we claim exists, the purposes for
which the banking act was passed, and for which national
banks were created, are not to be limited by occasional dicta
of the courts, but are to be found by considering the objects
to be subserved by them.
"National banks are instrumentalities of the Federal government created for a public purpose, and as such necessarily
subject to the paramount authority of the United States. It
follows that an attempt by a State to define their duties, or
control the conduct of their affairs, is absolutely void wherever
such attempted exercise of authority expressly conflicts with
the laws of the United States, and either frustrates the purpose
of the national legislation, or impairs the efficiencies of these
agencies of the Federal government to discharge the duties
for the performance of which they were created. These principles are axiomatic, and are sanctioned by the repeated adjudications of this court." Davis v. Elmira avines Bank, 161
U. S. "275, 283. See also lfaite v. Dowley, 1'4 U. S. 527;
National Bank v. Common wealth, 9 Wall. 353; Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fj Railway v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 98.
In the case at bar the statute of Massachusetts is not in the
nature of a police regulation, nor is it a statute prescribing
certain forms to be observed in executing the conveyance and
making public record thereof. It is rather a statute which
goes to the validity of the conveyance made in accordance
with the provisions of the statute of the United States,
because it is alleged such conveyance was made in violation
of certain conditions which the legislature of Massachusetts
had declared should render it void if they were disregarded.
At the time of the passage of the national banking act, the
finances of the country were in a deplorable condition. There
was no uniformity, and so great was the distrust of state
banks that in many instances bills which were used in one
State were not current in another. Nor could the United
States avail -themselves of these institutions to carry on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for 'laintiff in Error.

fiscal operations of the government, and the result was that
commerce was impeded, the operations of the national government crippled, and it became absolutely necessary that
Congress should establish not only a "stable," but a "uniform," system of currency applicable alike to every State in
the Union.
With this end in view, the national .banking act was so
constructed as to afford security to currency issued by the
several banking associations, and it was intended that they
should have credit for stability and permanency, not only
by depositing the bonds of the United States, but by taking
security whenever necessary for the protection of their property and assets. Hence it was that Congress was not satisfied
with legislating in a general way upon the manner of doing
-business by national banking associations, but legislation was
had covering the specific question in controversy, and by section
5136 it is declared "That the banking association shall have
power.

Third, to make contracts.

.

.

.

Seventh,

All such incidental powers -as shall be necessary to carry on
the business of banking

by loaning money on per-

sonal security." And section 5137 provides "That a national
banking association may purchase, hold and convey real estate
Second,
for the following purposes and no other. ...
such as shall be mortgaged to it in good faith by way of security for debts previously contracted. Third, such as shall
be conveyed to it in satisfaction of debts contracted in the
course of its dealings."
The act further points out the qualifications and dishbilities
attending such holding, for it says. "But no such association
shall hold the possession of any real estate under mortgage
or title of possession of any 'eal estate purchased to secure
any debt due it for a longer period than five years." This
qualification, which was intended to prevent speculation in
land, or the accumulation of .large-amounts of real estate to
be held for an indefinite period,is the only restriction which
Congress placed upon the power of the national bank to take
conveyances of real estate by way of mortgage for the security
of'debts previously contracted. "Expressio unius e8i excluaio
alterims."

McCLELLAN v. CHIPMAN.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

There can be no doubt that, under the provisions of the
statute of the United States, the Traders' National Bank
could hold this real estate conveyed to one of its directors in
trust and mortgage to secure a debt previously contracted in
good faith, and even for a debt contracted contemporaneously
with the conveyance. This conveyance was valid security for
the debt of the bank, unless it is rendered invalid by the laws
of the State of Massachusetts. National Bank v. Whitney,
103 U. S. 99, 102; National Bank v. .Matthews, 98 U. S. 621.
Considering the purposes for which banking associations are
organized, and for which the provisions of the national banking act were enacted by Congress, do the provisions of the
insolvent law of Massachusetts render void this conveyance
and other like conveyances at the will of the assignee appointed by state courts, and under authority of state statutes,
by attaching to it conditions which provide that such conveyance shall be void if at any time within six months the bank
has reasonable cause to believe that the mortgagor is insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency? In other words, if
the bank has reasonable cause to believe that a state of affairs
exists which makes it the duty of the bank to take additional
security for an existing debt in order to preserve its own assets,
and thereby its usefulness in carrying out the purposes of its
organization, does such knowledge, at the election of the assignee, who may affirm or repudiate the conveyance, render
its efforts to obtain the security provided by the statute without avail? We respectfully contend that such a statute tends
to impair the usefulness of national banks, and is in conflict
with both the letter and spirit of the act of Congress.
The conveyance to the plaintiff in error was not void at
the time it was made, but under the construction given to
the state laws of insolvency was only voidable. If the conveyance had been rendered void by the force of the statute,
no title would have passed to the purchaser; otherwise if it
was voidable at the election of the assignee. If the title
passed, then the lien of the United States attached, and the
statute of the State of Massachusetts would be inoperative
to defeat that lien, because of the insolvency of the grantor.
VOL. CLXIV-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The knowledge of the bank and the subsequefit election of
the assignee to proceed under the state statute for the recovery of the property certainly would operate as an impairment of the operation of the statute of the United States
creating a national bank.
We further respectfully contend that where, as in the
present case, Congress has legislated fully upon a specific
subject-matter, such legislation is exclusive of any legislation
upon the same subject-matter by the several States. Turning
to the statute of the United States, it is difficult to conceive
how Congress could have used language to more fully convey its will in relation to a power of national banks to take
securities for past debts by a conveyance of land, either
directly or in mortgage.
It provides: (1) The kind of security to be taken; (2) The
kind of debt for which security may be taken; namely, a debt
previously contracted; (3) The nature of the conveyance to be
made: that it shall be by way of mortgage security, or in satisfaction. of the debt itself; (4) The conditions and restrictions
to be applied to the conveyance - that it shall be mortgaged
in good faith, or conveyed in satisfaction of debts previously
contracted in the course of its dealings; (5) The length of
time for which the real'estate can be held: that it shall not
be for a longer period than five years.
It is clear that if Congress had intended to make these provisions for the taking and holding of real estate subject to
any other conditions, its intention would have been apparent'
in additionai provisions of the law.
We do not contend that Congress did not contemplate that
the conveyance should be made in accordance with the provisions of the common law, and should conform to the requirements of the statutes of the several States, so far as the
form of conveyance was concerned, and the measures to be
taken to give it publicity; that is to say, it left it still open
to the courts to say who could have priority of security where
there was no notice or record of the mortgage made, and like
questions. But that goes simply to the form, not to the spirit,
of the act and the power of making a conveyance in the

McCLELLAN v. CHIPMAN.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

manner prescribed by Congress. There is a wide difference
between the two, and that difference is effectual in favor of
the contention of the plaintiff in error.
We call attention with confidence to the case of Davis v.
Ehnira Savings Bank, 161 U. S. 275. In that case sections
5236 and 5242 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
provided for the manner of the distribution of the assets of
a national bank by the comptroller of the currency ratably
among the creditors; but the State of New. York, legislating
upon the same subject-matter, provided by state statute for
a different method of distribution, and instead of its being
distributed ratably among the creditors, it provided for the
preferential distribution under the law in certain cases. The
court holds that there is a conflict between the spirit and
letter of the two statutes, and that therefore the state statute
must yield to the provisions of the paramount law.
And, after a full citation of authorities and an exhaustive
opinion, the court comes to the conclusion that the statutes of
the State of New York conflict in letter and spirit with the
statute of the United States, and therefore must yield.
Now, it will be remembered that in section 5136 the language
of the statutes may in some sense be called "general"; that is,
it enables national banks "to make contracts," "to sue and be
sued," "to complain and defend in any court of law and equity
as fully as natural persons," " to elect or appoint directors,"
"to regulate the manner in which its stock shall be transferred,"
and other general matters relating to the powers of the bank;
but when it comes to defining the kind of security that may be
taken, the language ceases to be general and becomes specific,
and, as has been shown above, every condition necessary to a
valid conveyance is prescribed by the terms of tlie act itself.
In this regard it is well said by Mr. Justice Field that in Cook
County Bank v. United States, 107 U. S.445, "everything
essential to the formation of the banks, the issue, security and
redemption of their notes, and the winding up of the institutions, and the distribution of their assets, are fully provided
for."
We respectfully submit to the court that in the case at bar

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

'the provisions of the state law are much more antagonistic to
the provisions of the statute of the United States, both in letter
and spirit, than they were in the case of Davis v; Elmira Savings Bank. It might have been argued, and was argued, with
equal force in that case, that the provisions of the statute of
the United States were general in their character, and that the
statute of the United States in making the distribution must
have regard to the provisions of the state statute which gave
savings banks, in certain cases, a preference. But the court
held otherwise, and declared that there was a conflict in spirit,
as well as in letter, between the two acts. How much more
in the present case is there such conflict? As has been shown
above, the provisions of the statute of the United States were
not merely general but were specific in relation to security in
land which a national bank might take and hold. The provisions of the state statute, if it is operative, forbid such holding in the cases pointed out in the insolvent law.
XAr.

illian B. French for defendants in error.

Mr. S. J. Elderfiled a brief for defendant in error in No. 36.
MR. JusTicE WHir,

after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
Although these two cases were brought here by separate
writs of error, they depend on the same facts and involve the
same legal question, and were passed upon by the courb below
in one opinion. 159 Mass. 363. We shall, therefore, consider
them together.
The only Federal question for our consideration is whether
there was conflict between the statutes of the United States
and the provisions of the general law of the State of Massachusetts referred to and heretofore fully set out. Two propositions have been long since settled by the decisions of this
court:
First. National banks "are subject to the laws of the State,
and are governed in their daily course of business far more by

McCLELLAN v. CHIPMAI.
Opinion of the Court.

the laws of the State than of the nation. All their contracts
are governed and construed by state laws. Their acquisition
and transfer of property, their right to collect their debts, and
their liability to be sued for debts, are all based on state law.
It is only when the state law incapacitates the banks from
discharging their duties to the government that it becomes
unconstitutional."
Vational Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall.
362.
Second. "National banks are instrumentalities of the Federal government created for a public purpose, and as such
necessarily subject to the paramount authority of the United
States. It follows that an attbmpt by a State to define their
duties, or control the conduct of their affairs, is absolutely
void, whenever such attempted exercise of authority expressly
conflicts with the laws of the United States, and either frustrates the purpose of the national legislation, or impairs the
efficiencies of these agencies of the Federal government to
discharge the duties for the performance of which they
wera created." Davi8 v. Elmira Saving8 Bank, 161 U. S.
275,283.
These two propositions, which are distinct, yet harmonious,
practically contain a rule and an exception, the rule being the
operation of general state laws upon the dealings and contracts
of national banks, the exception being the cessation of the
operation of such laws whenever they expressly conflict with
the laws-of the United States or frustrate the purpose for
which the national banks were created, or impair their efficiency to discharge the duties imposed upon them by the law
of the United States. The provisions of the statutes of the
United States upon which the plaintiffs in error rely are as
follows:
"A national banking association may purchase, hold and
convey real estate for the following purposes, and for no
others:
"Second. Such as shall be mortgaged to it in good faith by
way of security for debts previously contracted.
"Third. Such as shall be conveyed to it in satisfaction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

debts previously contracted in the course of its dealings."
Rev.. Stat. § 5137.

The argument is that as this statute permits national banks
to take real estate for given purposes, therefore the Massachusetts law which forbids a transfer of property, with a view
to a preference, in case of insolvency, where the transferee has
reasonable cause to believe that the transferrer is insolvent or
in contemplation of insolvency, in no way controls the contracts or dealings of a national bank. But this position denies
the general rule just referred to, and amounts to asserting
that in every case where a national bank is empowered to
make a contract, such contract is not subject to the state law.
In the case in hand there is no express conflict between the
grant of power by the United States to the bank to take real
estate for previous debts, and the provisions of the Massachusetts law, which, although allowing as a general rule the
taking of real estate, as a security for an antecedent debt,
provides that it cannot be done under particular and exceptional circumstances. Nor is there anything in the statutes
of the State of Massachusetts, here considered, which in any
way impairs the efficiency of national banks or frustrates the
purpose for which they were created. No function of such
banks is destroyed or hampered by allowing the banks to exercise the power to take real estate, provided only they do so
under tae same conditions and restrictions to which all the
other citizens of the State are subjected, one of which limitations arises from the provisions of the state law which in case
of insolvency seeks to forbid preferences between creditors.
Of course, in the broadest sense, any limitation by a State on
the making of contracts is a restraint upon the power of a
national bank within the State to make such contracts; but
the question which we determine is whether it is such a regulation as violates the act of Congress. As well might it be
contended that any contract made by a national bank, within
a State in violation of the state laws on the subject of minority
or coverture, was valid because such state laws were in conflict
with the act of Congress or impaired the power of the bank to
perform its functions. Indeed, reduced to its last analysis, the

McCLELLAN v. CHIPMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

position here assumed by the plaintiff in error amounts to the
assertion that national banks in virtue of the act of Congress
are entirely removed, as to all their contracts, from any and
every control by the state law. The argument that the concession of a right on the part of a State to forbid the taking
of real estate by a national bank for an antecedent debt, under
any circumstance, implies the existence of a power in the
State to forbid such taking in all cases, begs the question, and
amounts simply to a restatement of the proposition already
answered. As long since settled in the cases already referred
to, the purpose and object of Congress in enacting the national
bank law was to leave such banks as to their contracts in general under the operation of the state law, and thereby invest
them as Federal agencies with* local 'strength, whilst, at the
same time, preserving them from undue state interference
wherever Congress within the limits of its constitutional
authority has expressly so directed, or wherever such state
interference frustrates the lawful purpose of Congress or impairs the efficiency of the banks to discharge the duties
imposed upon them by the law of the United States.
It is said that section 98 of the Massachusetts statute is in
conflict with the statutes of the United States in so far as it
provides that, "If such sale, assignment, transfer or conveyance is not made in the usual and ordinary course of business of the debtor, that fact shall be prima facie evidence of
such cause of belief," that is, the belief on the part of the
creditor of the insoivenoy of the debtor by whom the transaction was made. The reasoning is that as the United States
law allows the taking by a bank of real estate for an antecedent debt, and the state statute makes such taking of real
estate primafacie evidence of a reasonable belief on the part
of the bank of the insolvency of the debtor from whom the
real estate is so taken, therefore the state law violates the
national bank law, since it attributes to the doing of the act
which the national bank law authorizes, a presumption which
virtually annuls the contract, unless proof be made to the contrary. But this view gives to the words "ordinary course of
business" in the state statute a strained and unreasonable con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

struction. The state statute does not provide that the mere
fact that a security is taken for an antecedent debt renders
the contract one not in the actual course of the debtor's business, thereby engendering the presumption of knowledge on
the part of the creditor, but affixes such presumption only to
cases where the particular nature of the dealings between the
parties is such as to make the contract not one in the actual
course of business, from which fact the statutory presumption
arises. However, this objection does not arise on the record
before us, since the Supreme Court of Massachusetts held that
the effect of the charge of the trial court was substantially to
instruct the jury that before the plaintiff in the entry suit
could recover he must satisfy the jury by a preponderance of
evidence that Hall at the time of the conveyance was insolvent.
The claim that the security vested in the bank by the conveyance of the land is taken away from it in violation of the
United States law, because, under the Massachusetts law, a
contract by a debtor giving a fraudulent preference to one
creditor over another, is voidable and not void, is without
merit. This contention concedes that if the state 'law rendered the transaction void there would be a valid exercise of
state authority. But the power to do the greater necessarily
carrie- with it the right to do the lesser. Nor is there anything in the opinion of this court in Davis v. Elmira Savings
Bank, supra,which supports the argument of the plaintiff in
error. There, the conflict between the state and the Federal
law was found to be express and irreconcilable, bringing that
case, therefore, under the exception to the general rule. The
opinion carefully confined the ruling there made to such a
case, so as to render it inapplicable in a case like the one now
before it. It said:
"It is certain that, in so far as not repugnant to acts of
Congress, the contracts and dealings of national banks are
haft subject to the state law, and upon this undoubted premise,
which nothing in this opinion gainsays."
And the whole opinion was qualified by this language:
"Nothing, of course, in this opinion is intended to deny the

EDGINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

operation of general and undiscriminating state laws on the
contracts of national banks, so long as such laws do not conflict with the letter or the object and purpqses of Congressional legislation."
Finding no conflict between the special power conferred by
Congress upon national banks to take real estate for certain
purposes, and the general and undiscriminating law of the
State of Massachusetts subjecting the taking of real estate to
certain restrictions, in order to prevent preferences in case of
insolvency, we conclude that the judgments of the Supreme
Court of the State of Massachusetts were right, and they are,
therefore, in both cases,
______Affirmed-

EDGINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROV TO THE DISTIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 886. Submitted November 2, 1896.-Decided November 80, 1896.

Section 5438 of the Revised Statutes (codified from the act of March 2,
1863, c. 67, 12 Stat. 696) is wider in its scope than section 4746, (codified
from the act of March 3, 1873, c. 234, 17 Stat. 575,) and its provisions
were not repealed by the latter act.
On the trial of a person accused of the commission of crime, he may,
without offering himself as a witness, call witnesses to show that his
character was such as to make it unlikely that he would be guilty of the
crime charged; and such evidence is proper for the consideration of
the jury, in determining whether there is a reasonable doubt of the guilt
of the accused.
AT the March term, 1895, in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Iowa, Avington A.
Edgington was tried and found guilty of the crime of making
a false deposition on April 13, 1894, in aid of a fraudulent
pension claim on behalf of his mother, Jennie M. Edgington,
claiming to be the widow of Francis M. Edgington.
The indictment was based on section 5438 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, and it was claimed on behalf of

