OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

having long expired, when the United States gave a fee simple
title, free froni encumbrances, to the purchaser. If any one
else than the former life tenant had purchased at that sale, it
is indisputable that the present claimants would have had a
right to recover the money coming to them as owners under
the act of 1891. T. R. S. Elliott was under no obligations to
bid, and we are unable to see that his doing so changed the
relations between the United States and the appellees. If the
creditors of T. R. S. Elliott, instead of awaiting his action in
possessing himself of the title of the United States to the
property, and then seizing it in execution, had themselves
bought at the sale, the substantial facts would have been just
what they now are. It was found as a fact, by the Court of
Claims, that in buying at the auction sale T. R. S. Elliott did
not act for or on account of the remaindermen, and we do not
feel constrained to extend a doctrine devised for the protection
of cestuis quo trustent so as to operate to their injury.
As, then, the appellees were admittedly owners; as they
themselves neither purchased nor redeemied the land; and as
they are not held by any necessary intendment of law to have
been represented by the actual purchaser, it follows that they
are entitled to the benefit of the remedial statute of 1891,
and the decree of the Court of Claims to that effect is accord•Aflirmed.
ingly

STONE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No.118.

Argued November 4,1896.-Decded November 80, 1896.

The findings of the Court of Claims in an action at law determine all matters
of fact, like the verdict of a jury; and when the finding does not disclose
the testimony, but only describes its character, and, without questioning
its competency, simply declares its insufficieneyf this court is not at
liberty to refer to the opinion for the purpose of eking out, controlling
or modifying the scope of the findings.

STONE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ON April 16, 1891, appellant, under authority of the act of
March 3, 1891, c. 538, 26 Stat. 851, filed his petition in the
Court of Claims to recover the sum of $12,375 for certain property, to wit, two geldings, of the value of $500 each, and ninetyone head of horses, of the value of $125 each, alleged to have
been taken or destroyed by the Cheyenne and Arapahoe
Indians on November 17, 1867. A traverse having been
filed the case was submitted to the court upon the evidence.
Certain findings of fact were made, the second of which is as
follows:
"The depredation was committed on the 17th November,
1867, near the town of Fort Collins, in Larimer County,
Colorado, by the defendant Indians. The claimant never
presented this claim to the Department of the Interior nor
to Congress nor to any officer or agent of the government
until his petition in this case was filed in this court on the
16th April, 1891. It i8 supported only by the testimony of
the claimant himself and one witness. Since the claimant
testified he has filed his own ex parte affidavit, stating that
the witness above referred to Iis the only person with whom
I am acquainted who is familiar with the theft complained
of,' and that of thirteen persons who followed the Indians at
the time they took his horses he does not know the whereabouts of any except the witness produced, and that he had
used every endeavor to discover the other witnesses, but can
secure no information except that they are dead. The court
is not satisfied by this evidence as to the extent of the depredation or the value of the property."
Upon this finding judgment was entered in favor of the
defendants, 29 C. C1. 111, from which judgment the claimant
appealed to this court.
.Mr. Charles A. Keigwin and Mr. J. Al. Wilson for appellant.
11r. T. B. AMatthews was on their brief.
Air. A.sistant Attorney. General towry for appellees.
Ait. JusTe BnawEn, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The findings of the Court of Claims in an action at law
determine all matters of fact precisely as the verdict of a jury.
Act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, § 2, 7, 24 Stat. 505; act of
March 3, 1S91, c. 538, §§ 1, 4, 26 Stat. 851, 852; Desmare v.
United Slate.s, 93 U. S. 605, 610; .Mclure v. United BState,
116 U. S. 145.
That court finds that the claimant, upon whom rests the
burden of proof, has not proved the extent of the depredation
or the value of the property, and there being thus a case of a
failure of proof judgment properly went against the party
upon whom the burden rested. Counsel for appellant contend
that the Court of.Claims has attempted to create a rule of
evidence as to the number of witnesses required in different
classes of cases. Beyond the language of this finding they
call our attention to the opinion in which, after a reference
to the peculiar circumstances of this case, the court observes:
"The court has no reason in this particular case, other than the
lapse of time and the inaction of the claimant, to discredit
the witnesses or suspect the claim." We cannot so interpret
the finding or the opinion. We do not understand that either
lays down any arbitrary rule of evidence, as, for instance,
that a claim ten years old must be proved by at least two
witnesses, one twenty years old by three witnesses, and so on.
Such action would be legislative rather than judicial. The
court simply refers, and properly, to the age of the claim, the
failure to present it for such a length of time and the meagreness of the testimony now offered to substantiate it, and then
finds that such testimony, as to two essential facts in the
claimant's, case, to wit, the extent of the depredation and the
amount of the loss, is not sufficient. It is true the court does
not find that the witnesses have sworn falsely, but that is not
essential even when that is its belief. To say that the testimony is hot satisfactory is more polite and less offensive, and
at the same time equally sufficient. More than that, it is the
very language of the statute, see. 4 : "But the claimant shall
not have judgment for his claim, or for any part thereof.
unless he shall establish the same by proof satisfactory to the
court." We do not mean to intimate that the court in this

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAIJLROAD v. COLBURN.

383

Statement of the Case.

case believed that the witnesses committed perjury. On the
contrary it may well be that it simply found the testimony so
confused, so lacking in distinctness and precision, as to suggest
a weakening of the memory through lapse of time, and, therefore, not the satisfactory proof required of these essential facts.
We are not at liberty to refer to the opinion for the purpose of eking out, controlling or modifying the scope of the
findings. British Queen Tliabing Co. v. Baker Silver Mining
Co., 139 U. S. 222; Lehnen v. Dickson, 148 U. S. 11 ; Saltontall v. Birthell, 150 U. S. 417. Neither is this a case like
United States v. Clark, 96 IT. S. 37, in which in one finding
was stated the testimony, and in another the conclusion as
to the ultimate fact, in which case the court held that it
might consider the sufficiency of such testimony to establish
that principal fact, for here the finding does not disclose the
testimony, but only describes its character, and, without questioning its competency, simply declares its insufficiency.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY

v. COLBURN.
EROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 0.

Argued October 21, 1S96. - Decided November 80, 1896.

The Supreme Court of the State of Montana having decided adversely to
the plaintiff in error a claim of title to land under an act of Congress, a
Federal question was thereby raised.
No predmption or homestead claim attaches to a tract of public land until
an entry in the local land office; and the ruling by the state court that
occupation and cultivation by the claimant created a claim exempting
the occupied land from passing to the railroad company under its land
grant, is a decision on a matter of law open to review in this court.
The facts found below were not of themselves sufficient to disturb the title
of the railroad company under the grant from Congress.

ON April 23, 1892, defendant in error, as plaintiff, filed in
the district court of the county of Gallatin, Montana, his com-

