OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
BLOOM'S Administrator.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF A PPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 88. Argued and submitted October 29, 1696. -Decided January4, 1S9M.
A passenger on the road of the Texas and Pacific Railway Company sued
that company and its receiver, in a Texas court, in an action at law, to
recover for injuries received when travelling on its road while it was in
the hands of the receiver. The case was removed to the Circuit C6urt
of the United States, where a trial was had. The receivership had been
terminated before the commencement of the action, and the property
had, by order of court, been transferred to the company under the circumstances and on the conditions described in Texas & Pacific Railway
v. J'ohnson, 151 U. S. 81, and in this case. The company contended that"
it was not liable, or, if liable, that the claim could only be enforced in
equity. The trial resulted in a verdict and judgment. for the plaintiff.
Held, that, under the circumstances, the company was liable to the plaintiff in an action at law for the damages fdund by the jury; that the
conduct of the railway company in procuring, or, at least, in acquiescing in the withdrawal of the receivership and the discharge of the
receiver, and the cancellation of his bond, and in accepting the restoration of its road, largely increased in value by the betterments, affords
ground to chaige an assumption of such valid claims against the
receiver as were not satisfied by him, or by the court which discharged
him.

Ix January, 1889, one Bloom, describing herself as a resident of Lamar County, Texas, brought an action in the District Court of that county against the Texas and Pacific
Railroad Company and John C. Brown, receiver of said
company, claiming damages for personal injuries received
while travelling as a passenger on said railroad. The railroad
company and Brown, the receiver, respectively filed petitions for the removal of the suit into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eaftern District of Texas. The District Court refused to grant the removal, to which ruling
the defendants duly excepted. Pending the making up of
the issue, John C. Brown, the receiver, died. The trial
resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiff
for the sum of six thousand dollars. The cause was then

TEXAS A'D PACIFIC RAILWAY v. BLOOM.

637

Opinion of the Court.

taken to the Supreme Court of Texas, where, for error of
the District Court in refusing the petition for removal, the
judgment was reversed and the cause was remanded.
In June, 1893, the case came on for trial in the Circuit Court
of the United States, and the plaintiff recovered a verdict and
judgment for the sum of eight thousand dollars, and, on a
writ of error, that judgment was, on January 30, 1894,
affirmed by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit. 23 U. S App. 143. The case was then
brought on error to this court. The plaintiff Bloom having
died, Charles Manton entered an appearance as her administrator.
.Mr. David D. Duncan for plaintiff in error. ..il. John F.
Dillon and Mr. Winslow F. Pierce were on his brief.
Mr. James G. Dudley, Mr. A. E. Garland,and AXr. le. C.
Garlandfor defendant in error submitted on their brief.
MR. JUSTICE SaRnAs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The plaintiff's original petition in the District Court of
Lamar County disclosed that the injuries complained of were
received in August, 1888, while the railroad was in the hands
of John C. Brown, receiver, and alleged that the property
of the Texas and Pacific :Railway Company was placed in
the hands of said John C. Brown as receiver, at the instance of the said railroad company and for its own benefit,
and for the purpose of avoiding its traffic liability in the
carrying of passengers and freight, The petition further
alleged that the property of the said railroad company was
never sold by said receiver to pay its debts, and was never
contemplated to be sold, and that the entire earnings and
current receipts of the said railroad while in the hands of the
receiver, amounting to more than two millions of dollars,
were applied to the payment of mortgage debts and in the
betterment of the property of the company. It also alleged

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

that by an order made on January 2, 1889, by the United
States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana,
John C. Brown was directed to make delivery unto the said
Texas and Pacific Railway Company of all property, funds
and hssets in his hands as such receiver, and that he be directed
to account to said company according to his account filed and
approved up to June 1, 1888, and for all receipts and expenditures by him received and made since the said June 1, 1888,
--7such delivery to be made as of October 31, 1888; and it
was further ordered that said receiver be discharged on said
October 31, 1888, from his receivership, on payment of all
costs legally taxed, and thereupon his bond vacated and
cancelled. The said order, a copy of which was attached as
an exhibit to plaintiff's petition, contained the following
further provisions:
"It is further ordered that said property, nevertheless, shall
be delivered to and received by said Texas and Pacifib Railway Company, subjected to and charged with all traffic liabilities due to connecting lines and all contracts for which said
receiver is or might be held under or in any way liable, and
subject also to any and all judgments which have heretofore
been rendered in favor of intervenors in this case, and which
have not been paid, as well as to such judgments as may be
hereafter rendered by the court in favor of intervenors, while
it retains the cases for their determination, or int.ervenors now
pending and undetermined, or which may be filed prior to
February, 1889, together with needful expenses of defending
said claims, and upon the condition that such liabilities and
obligations of the receiver, when so recognized and adjudged,
may be enforced against said property in the hands of said
company or its assignees to the same extent they could have
been enforced if said property had not been surrendered into
the possession of said company, and was still in the hands of
the court, and with the further condition that the court may,
if needful for the protection of the receiver's obligations and
liabilities so recognized by this court, assume possession of said
property. The bills in these cases will be retained for the
purpose of investigating such liabilities and obligations, and

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY v. BLOOM.

639

Opinion of the Court.

for such other purposes as may seem needful. It is ordered
that all claims against the receiver as such, up to said October
31, 1888, be presented and prosecuted by intervention, prior to
February 1, 1889, and if not so presented by that date, that
the same be barred and shall not be a charge on the property
of said company. It is further ordered that the said receiver
advertise in a daily newspaper in New Orleans and in Dallas
the fact of his said discharge and a notice to said claimants
to make claim within the time aforesaid, to wit, before February 1, 1889, and that he post a printed notice of similar purport in the station houses of said railway."
The first contention on behalf of the plaintiff in error is
that, as whatever claim plaintiff acquired by reason of her
injury was one not against the defendant company but against
the receiver operating the road at the time under the orders
of the court appointing him, and as it was within the power
of such court, on terminating the receivership, to make and
provide for settlement of all claims of parties against such
receiver growing out of his operation of the road, and as, in
the present instance, by its order, the Circuit Court had made
such provision by directing that all clains against the receiver
should be presented and prosecuted by intervention prior to
February 1, 1889, and, that if not so presented by that date,
that the same be barred and shall not be a *charge on the
property of said company, and that as the plaintiff did not so
present or prosecute her claim, she was thereby precluded
from maintaining an action against the company.
Undoubtedly, if this were a controversy between a party
whose claim originated while a raihroad was in the control"of
a receiver appointed during a foreclosure suit and a purchaser
at a judicial sale decreed under that proceeding, the plaintiff's
proposition would be a sound one. If the property sequestrated had gone to sale and a fund had been thus realized for
distribution, then, upon notice appropriate to proceedings in
rem, such a claimant would, in the absence of special and
unusual circumstances, have been bound by the disposition so
made.
But the present case is one in which no judicial sale was

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the .Court.

made and no fund realized for distribution by final decree
after notice to and a hearing of those having claims against the
fund. It was not the ordinary case of a sale and purchase in
which compliance with stipulated conditions forms part of the
consideration, and in which the extent of the burdens assumed is defined. Here, the railroad and its appurtenances,
whose value was largely enhanced during the pendency of
the receivership, ivere ,returned to the possession of the railroad company; and while it was proper for the court, in order
to protect its receiver, to make an order for those who had
claims against him to bring them forward for disposition, it
by no means follows that the company took back its property
free from all claims that may have ofi'ginated during the
receivership. Such. might be the case if the claim originated
in some personal delinquency of the receiver, for which he and
his bondsmen could be held responsible. But where the claim
was incidental to the ordinary management of the railroad,
not attributable to personal misconduct of the receiver, and
where the court which had appointed the receiver had not
been put in possession of a fund by a foreclosure sale, but had,
at the request of the company and its mortgage creditors,
restored its property to the railroad company, while such a
claim was pending, we are unable to concede that an order of
the kind that was made in this case precluded the plaintiff
from enforcing her claim. There is present no element of
estoppel in favor of the railroad company; for the plaintiff's
judgment, obtained after a trial in which the company's defence on the merits was fully heard, would have to be paid,
and it would be a matter of indifference, so far as the pecuniary result is concerned, whether the claim was satisfied by the
action of the court when discharging its receiver, or by remedial proceedings against the company after the foreclosure
suit had been abandoned.
We think the order in question, fairly interpreted, meant
that the court, when about-to release the receiver and his
bondsmen by a determination of the foreclosure proceedings.
and a discharge of the receiver, gave an opportunity to those
who had claims to present them; but that, after February 1,

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY v. BLOOM.

641

Opinion of the Court.

1889, those who had not-intervened would cease to be entitled
to resort to the Circuit Court in the equity suit, and would be
remitted to such other remedies as might be within their reach.
Such was the view of the nature of this order that was taken
by this court in the case of Texas & Pacifr Railway v. Johnson, 151 U. S. 81, which was a case involving the same proceedings which are now under consideration.
It was indisputably shown at the trial, by the testimony of
the receiver himself, that the earnings of the railroad while
operated by him largely exceeded the eipenses, and that a very
large sum was applied by him to improvements and new equipm'nts, so that "the road was turned over to, the company in
far better condition and more valuable by far than when
placed in the hands of the receiver."
Such a state of facts certainly discloses an equitable claim
against the railroad, on behalf of the plaintiff below.
But the very fact that the claim is an equitable one is made
the basis of another contention by the plaintiff in error, and
which is thus expressed in the second assignment of error:
"The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in its judgment affirming the judgment of the Circuit Court in overruling the general
demurrer presented by plaintiff in error to the petition of the
defendant in error, for the reason that the matters alleged in
said petition, if true as stated, disclose no cause of action at
common law against plaintiff in error, nor any personal liability on the part of plaintiff in error to defendant in error such
as could support an action at common law in said court; but,
if any cause of action or right in defendant in error was shown
by such pleading, it was of an* equitable nature -to wit, an
deequitable lien on the property of plaintiff in error -and
such
one
against
remedy
was
an
equitable
fendant in error's
property and not by a suit at common law for a personal judgment against the plaintiff in error, and because the right
asserted by defendant in error, and her remedies therefor
could only be adjudicated and pleaded upon the equity side of
said court and by an appeal to said court sitting as a court of
chancery."
In sustaining this assignment, the counsel for the plaintiff
VOL. CLxi--41

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

in error complain of what is called a misapprehension by the
Circuit Court of Appeals of the case of Texas & .PacificRailway v. Johnson, 151 U. S. 81, and they seek to distinguish that
from the present case by calling attention to the fact that the
former case came here by.way of a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the State of Texas, and to the other fact that there
was evidence in the Johnson case tending to show that the
receiver was appointed at the instigation of the railway company and in order to enable it to improve its property by
making repairs to its track and additions to its rolling stock
by using therefor the earnings of the company during the
receivership.
It is true that, in meeting the argument that a personal
judgment could not be rendered against the railway company
because it was not liable for acts committed by the receiver,
this court said, in the Johnson case, that such a question was
"one of general law, and for the state court to pass upon."
Nevertheless, this court, in reviewing the decision of the state
court, said:
"In the view of that court a railway company might be held
directly liable when a receiver is appointed in an amicable suit
at the instigation of the company and for the company's own
purposes, and, these purposes being accomplished, the property
is returned to its owner, the rights of no third persons as purchasers intervening, upon the ground that the acts of the receiver might well be regarded as the acts of its own servant,
rather than those of an officer of the court, which, under such
circumstances, he would only, be sub modo. But as tfie court
did not feel authorized to entertain a conclusion which might
carry the implication that this receivership would have been
created or continued, although its object had only been to place
the property temporarily beyond the reach of creditors until
it could be augmented in value by improvements made from
earnings under the protection of the court, that rule was not
applied in this case. The company was held liable upon the
distinct'ground that the earnings of the road were subject to
the payment of claims for damages, and that as, in this instance,
such earnings, to an extent far greater than sufficient to pay

TEXAS AND PACIFIC IRAILWAY v. BLO0M.

643

Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiff, had been diverted into betterments, of which the
company had the benefit, it must respond directly for the
claim. This was so by reason of the statute (Laws Tex. 1887,
120, c. 131, ยง 6), and, irrespective of statute, on equitable principles applicable under the facts."
But although this court, in the Johnson case, chose to rest
its decision upon the well-settled ground that the decisions of
the state court in the construction of state statutes are bindin- on this court, no disapproval was suggested or implied of
the reasoning of the state court. And'with a similar question
now before'us, in a case brought from a Circuit Court of the
United States, we see no reason to reach a different conclusion.
It ,will be observed that in this branch of the case the plaintiff in error is conceding that the plaintiff below had a good
cause of action against the receiver; that she was not bound
to prosecute her claim as part of the foreclosure proceedings;
and that the earnings of the railroad, to an amount largely exceeding the claim, had been diverted by the receiver to betterments. But the contention is that the plaintiff's remedy, in
such circumstances, was by proceedings in equity. This contention is founded on the proposition that the plaintiff's right
to a remedy is solely upon the ground that the income of the
road while in the hands of the receiver had been applied to
the improvement of the road, and it is argued that such a
remedy cannot go beyond the amount of the income so'applied, and that the plaintiff must therefore follow the fund in
equity, and is not entitled to sue and obtain a personal judgment against the holder of the fund, that is, the railroad company in possession of the railroad increased in value by the
betterments.
There is a general principle that a party having a right to
resort to a fund in the hands of a receiver or trustee may
have the aid of a court of equity in following that fund, where
it has been improperly mingled with other funds, or has been
invested in property in which third persons have an interest.
That is a rule devised for the benefit of the party invoking it,
but cannot be applied, as we understand the facts of this case,
to the detriment of the defendant in error. The railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

company did not, at the trial, pretend that the amount of the
benefits received by reason of the betterments did not reach
the amount of the plaintiff's claim-indeed, the receiver's
testimony showed that the betterments amounted to several
hundred thousands of dollars - but the company claimed then,
as they do now, that the plaintiff's only remedy was in equity.
It is obvious that the only right or advantage that would
accrue to the railroad company, if the plaintiff was compelled
to resort to an equitable proceeding, would be the opportunity
to show that the betterments received were less than the
amount of the claim. The conduct of the railroad company
in procuring, or, at least, in acquiescing in the withdrawal of

the receivership, and in the discharge of the receiver and the
cancellation of his bond, and in accepting the restoration of
its road, largely increased in value by the betterments, well
affords ground to charge an assumption of such valid claims
against the receiver as were not satisfied by him or by the
court which discharged him. The company might, even in
such circumstances, have a right to show that the claims
exceeded the amount of the betterments, and have the aid of
a court of equity to restrict its liability to that amount. But,
as we have seen, it is not pretended that there is any such
equity in the present qase.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is

Affljrmed.

MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 536. Submitted December 15, IS96. -Decided

Janutry 4, 189T.

On the trial of a person accused of rape, the court, in charging the jury,
said: "The fact is that all the force that need be exercised, If there Is
no consent, is the force incident to the commission of the act. If there
is non-consent of the woman, the force, I say, incident to the commis-

