OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

OSBORNE v. FLORIDA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 87.

Argued December 8,1896.-Decided January4, 1897.

The license tax imposed upon express companies doing business in Florida
by ยง 9 of the statute of that State, approved June 2, 1893, c. 4115, as construed by the Supreme Court of that State, applies solely to business of
the company within the State, and does not apply to or affect its business which is interstate in its character; and, being so construed, the
statute does not, in any manner, violate the Federal Constitution.
The construction of the state statute below is not open to review.

F. R. OSBORNE, the plaintiff in error, was arrested in tile
State of Florida for an alleged violation of a statute of that
State in knowingly acting as the agent, at Jacksonville, for
the Southern Express Company, a corporation created under
the laws of the State of Georgia and doing business in Florida,
without having paid the license provided for by statute. He
was required to give a bond for his appearance before the
criminal court of record of Duval County, in the State of
Florida, to answer the charge, and upon his refusal to give
the same he was committed to the common jail of the county
there to await trial. He then applied to the judge of the
state circuit court for a writ of habeas corpus, and upon the
hearing his arrest was adjudged to be legal, and he was remanded to the custody of the sheriff. The case was submitted to the circuit court upon an agreed statement of facts
as follows: "That the said F. R. Osborne is the agent of
the Southern Express Company, and that said company is
a corporation created, existing and being under the laws
if the State of Georgia; that said Southern Express Company is doing a business in the State of Florida ordinarily
done by express companies in the United States of carrying
goods and freight for hire from points within the State of
Florida to points in said State, and algo of carryinggoods and
freights for hire from points within the State of Florida to
points without the State of Florida in other States in divers

OSBORNE v. FLORIDA.
Statement of the Case.

parts of the United States, and in carrying goods and freights
for hire from points in other States of the United States to
points within the State of Florida, and that it has been engaged in such business for more than twenty years, and was
so engaged on the 3d day of October, 1893; that of the
business done by the Southern Express Company 95 per cent
thereof consists of traffic carrying of goods and freights from
the State of Florida into other States, and bringing and carrying from other States of the United Sates to points within
the State of Florida, and 5 per cent thereof consists of carrying goods and freights between points wholly within the State
of Florida; that F. R. Osborne did knowingly act as the
agent of said express company on the 3d day of October,
1893, in the city of Jacksonville, Duval County, Florida, a
city having more than 15,000 inhabitants, the said Southern
Express Company having then and there failed and refused to
pay the license tax as required by article 12, section 9, of an
act entitled 'An act for the assessment and collection of revenue,' of the laws of Florida, approved June 2, 1893; that the
Southern Express Company does business in and has agents
in more than one town in nearly every county in the State,
and that said towns ,differ in population, and that it has an
office and agent and does business in Polk County, Florida,
in the following incorporated towns, with a population as
follows: Bartow, 1500 inhabitants; F't Meade, 600 inhabitants; Columbia, 600 inhabitants; Lakeland, 800 inhabitants;
and Winter Haven, 200 inhabitahts. In Orange County:
Apopka, 500 inhabitants; Orlando, 10,000 inhabitants; Sanford, 5000 inhabitants; Umatilla, 3000 inhabitants; Winter
Park, 600 inhabitants; and Zellwood, 300 inhabitants. In
Alachua County: Campville, 400 inhabitants; Archer, 150 inhabitants; Grove Park, 110 inhabitants; Gainesville, 5000
inhabitants; Hawthorne, 300 inhabitants; High Springs, 500
inhabitants; and Island Grove, 200 inhabitants. In Duval
County: Jacksonville, with a population of over 15,000;
Baldwin, 125 inhabitants."
From the order committing plaintiff in error to the custody
of the sheriff arnappeal was taken to the Supreme Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the -Court.

the State of Florida, and that court affirmed the order. 06borne v. tate, 33 Florida, 162. The plaintiff in error then
sued out a writ of error from this court.
Mr.,JoAn E. Haltridge for plaintiff in error.
Mr. F B. Lamar, Attorney General of the State of Florida, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PnEoKnrA&,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

The criminal proceedings against the plaintiff in error were
taken by virtue of a statute of Florida, known as chapter 4115,
approved June 2, 1893. The ninth section of that chapter
provides that: "1No person shall engage in or manage the
business, profession or occupation mentioned in this section
unless a state license shall have been procured from the tax
collector, which license shall be issued to each person on receipt of the, amount hereinafter provided, together with the
county judge's fee of twenty-five cents for each license, and
shall be signed by the tax collector and the county judge, and
have the county judge's seal upon it. Counties and incorporated cities and towns may impose such further taxes of the
same kind upon the same subjects as they may deem proper
when the business, profession or occupation shall be engaged
in within such county, city or town. The tax imposed by
such city, town or county shall not exceed fifty per cent of
the state tax. But such city, town or county may impose
taxes on any business, profession or occupation not mentioned
in this section, when engaged in or managed within such city,
town or county. No license shall be issued for more than one
year, and all licenses shall expire on the first day of October
of each year, but fractional licenses, except as hereinafter provided, may be issued to expire on that day at a proportionate
rate, estimating from the first day of the month in which the
license is so issued, and all licenses may be transferred, with
the approval of the comptroller, with the business for which
they were taken out, when there is a bonafide sale and trans-

OSBORNE v. FLORIbA.
Opinion of the Court.

fer of the property used and employed in the business as stock
in trade, but such transferred license shall not be held good
for any longer time, or for any other place, than that for
which it was originally issued."
There are various subdivisions to this section not herein set
forth, and they enumerate divers occupations and professions,
the members of which are required to procure a license and
to pay annually therefor the amounts stated in those subdivisions.
The twelfth subdivision provides, among other things, that
all express companies doing business in this State shall pay
in cities of fifteen thousand inhabitants or more a license tax
of two hundred dollars; in cities of ten thousand to fifteen
thousand inhabitants, one hundred dollars; in cities of five
thousand to ten thousand inhabitants, seventy-five dollars; in
cities of three to five thousand inhabitants, -fifty dollars; in
cities of one to three thousand inhabitants, twenty-five dollars;
in towns and villages of less than one thousand and more than
fifty inhabitants, ten dollars. Any express company violating this provision, and any person that knowingly acts as
agent for any express company before it has paid the above
tax, payable by such company, shall be deemed. guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished
by a,fine of not less than fifty dollars, or confined in the
county jail not less than six months."
In addition to the criminal penalty above set forth, section
10 provides that the payment of all licenses taxed may be enforced by the seizure and sale of property by the collector.
The plaintiff in error assigns two grounds upon which he
seeks for a reversal of the judgment of the state court. One
is based upon the allegation that the statute, so far as regards
the Southern Express Company or :himself as its agent, violates the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, in that
it assumes to regulate interstate commerce. The second
ground is that the statute is not sufficiently determinate, definite and certain in its character upon which to ascertain the
amount to be paid for licenses.
It may be here assumed that if the statute applied to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

express company in relation to its interstate business, it would
be void as an attempted interference with or regulation of
interstate commerce.
The pafticular construction to be given to this state statute
is a question for the state court to deal with, and in such a
case as this we folloiv the construction given by the state
court to the statutes of its own State. Zefflngwell v. Warren,
2 Black, 599 ; People v. Weaver, 100 U. S.539, 54:1 ; _Noble v.
Mitchell, 164 U. S. 367, 372, and cases there cited.
The Supreme Court of ]lorida has construed the ninth section of this act and has held in express terms that it does not
apply to or affect in any manner the business of this company
which is interstate in its character; that it applies to and affects only its business which is done within- the State, or is,
as it is termed, "local" in its character, and it has held that
"under that statute so long as the express company confines its
operations to express business that consists of interstate or
foreign commerce, it is wholly exempt from the legislation in
question. It has added, however, that under the provisions
of the statute, if the company engage in business within the
State of a local nature as distinguished from an interstate or
foreign kind of commerce, it becomes subject to the statute so
far only as concerns its local business, notwithstanding it may
at the same time engage in interstate or foreign commerce.
In other words, this statute as construed by the Supreme
Court of Florida does not exempt the express company from
taxation upon its business which is solely within the -State,
even though at the same time the same company may do a
business which is interstate in its character, and that as to the
latter kind of business the statute does not apply to or affect
it. As thus construed we have no doubt as to the correctness
of the decision that the act does not in any manner violate
the Federal Constitution.
The case of Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, is not in
the slightest degree opposed to this view. The act which
was held to be in violation of the Federal Constitution in that
case prohibited the agent of a foreign express company from
carrying on business at all in that State without first obtain-

OSBORNE v. FLORIDA.
Opinion of the Court.

ing a license from the State. The company was thus prevented
from doing any business, even of an interstate character, without obtaining the license in question. The act was held to be
a regulation of interstate commerce in its application to corporations or associations engaged in that business, and that
subject was held to belong exclusively to national and not
state legislation.
It has never been held, however, that when the business of
the company which is wholly within the State, is but a mere
incident to its interstate business, such fact would furnish any
obstacle to the valid taxation by the State of the business of
the company which is entirely local. So long as the regulation as to the license or taxation does not refer to and is not
imposed upon the business of the company which is interstate,
there is no interference with that commerce by the state statute. It was stated by Mr. Justice Bradley, in the course of
his opinion in the Crutoker caee, that: "Taxes or license fees
in good faith imposed exclusively on express business carried
on wholly within the State would be open to no such objection," viz., an objection that the tax or license was a regulation
of or that it improperly affected interstate commerce. We
have no doubt that this is a correct statement of the law in
that regard. The statute herein differs from the cases where
statutes upon this subject have been held void, because in
those cases the statutes prohibited the doing of any business
in the State whatever unless upon the payment of the fee or
tax. It was said as to those cases that as the law made the
payment of the fee or the obtaining of the license a condition
to the right to do any business whatever, whether interstate
or purely local, it was on that account a regulation of interstate commerce, and therefore void. Here, however, under the
construction as given by the state court, the company suffers
no harm from the provisions of the statute. It can conduct
its interstate business without paying the slightest heed to the
act, because it does not apply to or in any degree affect the
company in regard to that portion of its business which it
has the right to conduct without regulation from the State.
The company in this case need take out no license and pay

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

no tax for doing interstate business, and the statute is therefore valid.
The second ground for holding the statute void is that
it is
not sufficiently determinate, definite and certain in its character upon which to ascertain the amount to be paid for
licenses. This ground furnishes no reason for interference by
this court. Whether the statute be sufficiently determinate
or certain in its character upon which to ascertain the amount
to be paid for a license, is a question of the construction of
the state statute which does not necessarily involve a Federal
question, and the, determination of the state court as to the
proper construction, and sufficiency of such a statute is conclusive upon us. The learned counsel for plaintiff in error is
mistaken in assuming that this court has any more power than
formerly to review, upon a writ of error from a state court,
the determination of that court in regard to the particular
construction to be given to the statutes of its own State. The
cases of Horner v. United States, 143 U. S. 570, and Carey v.
Hfouston, & Texas Central Railway, 150 U. S.170, have no
bearing upon this question. They both refer to the jurisdiction of this court under the fifth section of the act of March 3,
1891, upon appeals or writs of error taken direct from the
Circuit or District Courts of the United States to this court.
By-the last subdivision of section 5 of that act it is provided
that: "Nothing in this act shall affect the jurisdiction of the
Supreme C6urt in cases appealed from the highest court of a
State nor the construction of the statute providing for the
review of such cases." The cases above cited originated in
the Circuit Courts of. the United States, and were brought
direct, by appeal or writ of error to this court. This case
comes here by writ of error to the Supreme Court of 'a State,
and our jurisdiction to review that judgment is embraced in
section 709 of the Revised Statutes. In exercising jurisdiction under that section we do not review such a question as
is here presented by plaintiff in error.
Upon the construction given it by the state court the statute does not violate any provision of the Federal Constitution,
and the judgment of that court is, therefore,Aflbrmed.

