OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

of the judicial sales by which the complainants claim to have
acquired the title of the railroad company, for by those sales,
if they took anything, they took no more than the railroad
company had, and whatever title it may ever have had was,
as we have seen, divested by the tax proceedings.
The decree of the Circuit Court was right, and it is

Affirmed.

FRANCE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 495. Argued November 13, 1696. -Decided January

4, 1897.

The plaintifs in error were engaged in the management and conduct of two
lotteries at Covington, Kentucky, opposite Cincinnati, Ohio, where there
were drawings twice a day. They had agents in Cincinnati,*each of whom,
'before drawing, sent a messenger to Covington, with a paper showing the
various numbers chosen and the amounts bet, and the money, less his
commissions. After the drawing, what was termed "an offici'al print"
was made, which consisted of a printed sheet showing the numbers in
their consecutive order as they came out of the wheel and on the line
beneath the numbers were arranged in their natural order. In addition
to the "1official print "these messengers, after the drawing had been had,
brought back to the agents at Cincinnati what was known as "lilt-slips."
These were slips of paper with nothing but the winning numbers on
them, together with a statement of a sum in dollars. The money to the
amount named on the paper was brought over by the messenger to the
agent in Cincinnati. Some of these messengers were arrested as they
were coming from Covington, walking across the bridge, and just as
they came to the Cincinnati side. They had with them in their pockets
the official sheet and the hit-slips, as above described, containing the
result of the drawing, which had just been concluded at Covington.
They had the money to pay the bets, and were on their way to the
various agents in the city of Cincinnati. Procuring the carrying of
these papers was the overt act towards the accomplishment of the conspiracy upon which the conviction of plaintiffs in error was based.
'There was nothing on any of the papers which showed that any particular person had any interest in or claim to any money which the messengers
carried. The plaintiffs in error were indicted, under Rev. Stat. ยง 5440,
for conspiring to violate the act of March 2, 1895, c. 191, ",for the suppresslon of lottery traffic through national and Interstate commerce."

FRANCE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
Held, that the carrying.of such books and papers from Kentucky to Ohio
was not, within the meaning of the statute, a carrying of a paper, certificate or instrument purporting to be or represent a ticket, chance, share
or interest in or dependent upon the event of a lottery, so called gift concert, or similar enterprise, offering prizes depending upon lot or chance, as
provided for in such statute; as the lottery had already been drawn; as
the papers carried by the messengers were not then dependent upon the
event of any lottery and as the language as used in the statute looks to
the future.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. W. Goldsmith and M!r. James C. Carter for plaintiffs in error. Mr. Edward Colston and -M1r. George ioadly,
Jr., were on Mr. Goldsmith's brief.
.Mr. A88stant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
Mr. JuSTicE PFEowiA

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs in error were indicted for and convicted of the
offence of conspiracy, under section 5440 of the Revised Statutes. They were charged in the indictment with conspiring
to violate the act of Congress, passed March 2, 1895, c. 191,
for the suppression of lottery traffic through national and interstate commerce, etc. 28 Stat. 963.
The section of the Revised Statutes and the first section of
the act, above referred to, are set forth in the margin.'
I Sic. 5440. If two or more persons conspire either to commit any offence against the United States, or to defraud the United States in any,
manner or for any purpose, and one or more of such parties do any act to
effect the object of the conspiracy, all the parties to such conspirkey shall
be liable to a penalty of not less than one thousand dollars and not more
than ten thousand dollars, and to imprisonment not more than two years.
AcT oF 1895.
CHAP. 191. An act for the suppression of lottery traffic through national and
interstate commerce and the postal service subject to the jurisdiction and
laws of the United States.
.Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That any person who shall cause
to be brought within the United States from abroad, for the purpose of disposing of the same, or deposited in or carried by the mails of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The indictment contains six counts, charging overt acts on
the part of plaintiffs in error, to have been committed in
Hamilton County, Ohio, in October, 1895.
The trial of the plaintiffs in error having been duly commenced in the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio, it appeared in the course of the
evidence then taken that there were two lotteries, called respectively the "H" or "Henry Lottery," and the "K'1 or
"Kentucky Lottery," both of which were carried on in Coyington, Kentucky, under the management of one of the
plaintiffs in error, the others being engaged in the business
under his direction.
Witnesses for the government testified to the manner in
which the lotteries in question were conducted. It was shown
by their evidence that the main office where the drawing was
done was situated on the Kentucky side of the river and in
the city of Covington. There was a drawing twice in each
day for each lottery. The drawing in each casewas from a
glass wheel in which the numbers, from I to 78, were placed,
and one number was drawn out at a time until 12 bad been
drawn. The betting is in regard to the sequence in which the
numbers will be drawn from the wheel, and three numbers
are usually chosen, such for instance as 7, 28, 16. This is
called a "gig." If the player bet on these numbers and they
are drawn from the wheel in that order, he has won his bet.
There are agents for these lotteries, as some of the witnesses
said, "in every street in Cincinnati." An agent has an office
consisting of a single room, where he receives persons who
States, or carried from one State to another in the United States, any
paper, certificate or instrument purporting to be or represent a ticket,
chance, share or interest in or dependent upon the event of a lottery, socalled gift concert, or similar enterprise, offering prizes dependent upon lot
or chance, or shall cause any advertisement of such lottery, so-called gift
concert or similar enterprise, offering prizes dependent upon lot or chance,
to be brought into the United States, or deposited in or carried by the
mails of the United States, or transferred from one State to another in the
same, shall be punishable in the first offence by imprisonment for not more
than two years or by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars, or both,
and in the second and after offences by such imprisonment only.

FRANCE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
propose to patronize the lottery. The person, coming to the
office, chooses his numbers; the agent gives him a paper containing nothing but the numbers and in the sequence which
he has chosen, two copies of which the agent keeps. At a
certain hour before the drawing of the lottery in Covington,
each agent in Cincinnati sends his messenger with a paper
showing the various numbers chosen and the amounts bet,
and he also sends the money, less his commissions, to the main
office across the river. These messengers must arrive a certain time before the drawing or they will not be permitted to
share in the drawing which is then about to take place. After
the drawing, what is termed- an "official print" is made,
which consists of a printed sheet showing the numbers in their
consecutive order as they came out of the wheel and on the
line beneath, the numbers are arranged in their natural order.
This "official print" is in the form of a book, and after the
drawing it is returned to the agent in Cincinnati, who on his
part sends it back again just prior to the next drawing. In
addition to the "official print," these messengers, after the
drawing has been had, bring back to the agents at Cincinnati
what is known as "hit-slips."
These are slips of paper with
nothing but the winning numbers on them, together with a
statement of a sum in dollars. The agent understands this
named sum to be.the amount payable to those who have won
upon the last drawing. The identification' of the drawing
at which the winning numbers came out is made by numbering each drawing. The money to the amount named on the
paper is brought over by the messenger to the agent in Cincinnati.
Some of these messengers were arrested as they were coming from Covingtdn, walking across the bridge, and just as
they came to the Cincinnati side. They bad with them in
their pockets the official sheet and the hit-slips, as above
described, containing the result of the drawing, which had
just been concluded at Covington. They had the money to
pay the bets, and were on their way to the various agents
in the city of Cincinnati. Procuring the carrying of these
papers was the overt act towards the accomplishment of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

conspiracy upon which the conviction of plaintiffs in error
was based.
There was nothing on any of the papers which showed
that any particular person had any interest in or claim to
any money which the messengers carried. The papers were
simply the means used to impart information from the main
office in Covington to the agent in Cincinnati as to the result
of the drawing of the particular lottery. They in fact referred entirely to a past drawing, and even as to that they
furnished no evidence that any particular person or that the
bearer had any interest in the result of the lottery already
drawn. They were addressed to no one, and were signed
by no one. Nothing but figures were there. None but the
agent had the necessary information as to the persons who
were interested in, or who might be entitled to any money
by reason of the result of, the drawing. The papers did not
purport to be or to. represent a ticket, chance, share or interest in or dependent upon the event of any lottery.
For the purpose of determining one of the questions raised by
counsel for the plaintiffs in error, it may be assumed that the
evidence was sufficient to justify the jury in finding plaintiffs
in error guilty of the conspiracy to do the acts above mentioned,
either as managers of a lottery in Covington, or as agents in
transmitting papers and books containing the matter above
stated. After the evidence was all in, each of the plaintiffs
in error asked the court to charge the jury that in regard to
his individual case the jury should be directed to find a verdict of not guilty, and that as to him the United States had
failed to make out a case, and that the verdict of the jury
should, therefore, be in his favor. The court refused to charge
as requested, and each defendant duly excepted to such reftisal. We think the request was proper and should have
been granted by the court.
Some criticism is made by the learned counsel for the
defendant in error, based upon the particular language of
the request to charge. He says that the only request was
made on the part of the defendant A. L. France, and that
such request in regard to him was joined in by the other

FRANCE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

defendants, so that their request was that he (France) should
be acquitted by the direction of the court, and that no request
was made in their own behalf. Possibly the language appearing in the record, when read without the context, is capable
of such a construction, but it is apparent from the questions
in the case and the evidence which had been taken regarding
all the defefidants, that such was neither the intention of the
counsel for the plaintiffs in error nor the understanding of the
court. The plain intention was that the same directions
which were asked for in regard to the defendant A. L. France
were also asked for individually and for himself by each of
the other defendants, so that each made the request that the
court should charge that he individually was entitled to a
verdict of not guilty, upon the same grounds'set forth in the
special charge asked for by the defendant A. L. France.
When proper and legal evidence has been given on the part
of the government in a criminal trial, which if believed is
sufficient in law to make out a crime and to sustain a conviction of the person on trial, a request to the court to direct
the jury to acquit must be refused, and an exception to such
refusal raises no question of law, even though the evidence
on the part of the .defendant is much stronger and more
satisfactory than that for the government. The question
under such circumstances is one for the jury and not for the
court. In the view we take of this case, however, the request
did not depend upon the credibility of witnesses or. upon the
weight to be given to the evidence in the case. We assume
the truth of all the evidence given on the part of the government with all proper inferences which may be drawn from it,
but we do not think that such evidence brought plaintiffs in
error within the provisions of the statute in regard to lotteries
above set forth. Therefore a motion to direct an acquittal
raised a question, of law, and an exception to the denial of
the motion is properly reviewable here.
We are of opinion that-in this case the messengers carrying across the border from Kentucky to Ohio the books and
papers above referred to did not within the meaning of the
statute carry any paper, certificate or instrument purporting

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

to be or represent a ticket, chance, share or interest in or
dependent upon the event of a lottery, so called gift concert,
or similar enterprise, offering prizes depending upon lot or
chance, as provided for in such statute. The lottery had
already been drawn; the papers carried by the messengers
were not then dependent upon the event of any lottery.
The language as used in the statute looks to the future. The
papers must purport to be or represent an existing chance or
interest which is dependent upon the event of a future drawin. of the lottery. A paper that contains nothing but figures
which in fact relate to a drawing that has already been completed, one that has passed and gone, cannot properly be said
to be a paper, certificate or instrument as described in the
statute. It purports to show no interest in or dependent
upon the event of any lottery. If the lottery has been
drawn, the interest, is no longer dependent upon it. The
condition upon which the bet or the interest was dependent
has happened; the solution of the problem has already been
arrived at; the bet has already been determined. The bare
statement of that solution or determination placed on paper
does not impart to that paper the character of a certificate
or instrument purporting to be or represent a ticket, etc.,
dependent upon the event of a lottery. From the statement
upon the paper, the agent may acquire the knowledge which
will enable him to say who has won, but the book or the
paper does not purport to be and is not a certificate, etc.,
within the act of Congress.
There is no contradiction in the testimony, and the government admits and assumes that the drawing in regard to which
these papers contained any information had already taken place
in Kentucky, and it was the result of that drawing only that
was on its way in the hands of messengers to the agents of the
lottery in Cincinnati.
The statute does not cover the transaction, and however reprehensible the acts of the plaintiffs in error may be thought to
be, we cannot sustain a conviction on that ground. Although
the objection is a narrow one, yet the statute being highly
penal, rendering its violator liable to fine and imprisonment,

FRANCE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

we are compelled to construe it strictly. Full effect is given
to the statute by holding that the language applies only to
that kind of a paper which depends upon- a lottery the drawing of which has not yet taken place, and which paper purports to be a certificate, etc., as described in the act. If it
be urged that the act of these plaintiffs in error is within the
reason of the statute, the answer must be that it is so far outside of its language that to include it within the statute would
be to legislate and not to construe legislation.
It has also been most strongly urged on the part of the
plaintiffs in error that they were not, as shown by the evidence, engaged in the transaction of anything in the nature
of interstate commerce, and that Congress had no constitutional right to pass an act which should be applicable to them
under the circumstances disclosed by the proof in this case.
It was argued that the subject was beyond the jurisdiction of
Congress in the exercise of its powers concerning national or
interstate commerce. The arguments upon this subject have
on both sides been able and interesting, but as our decision in
relation to the scope of the statute necessarily leads to a reversal of the judgment and a discharge of the plaintiffs in error,
it is not necessary for us to decide the question as to the power
of Congress, and we therefore express no opinion in regard
to it.
The judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded to
the DistriCt Court of the United States for the southern
.Districtof Ohio, with directions to set aside the judgment
and discharge the pTaintifs in error.
MR. JUsTIoE

flIARLAx dissented.

