OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

of manipulation which results from its habitual and intelligent practice."
.Decreeaffrmed.

UNITED STATES v. GILLIAT.
APPEAh FROM THE COURT OF CLAIIS.
No.535. Submitted October 18, 1896.-

Decided October 26, 1896.

It was the intention of Congress, by the language used in the act of August
23,1894, c. 307, 28 Stat. 424, 487, to refer to the Court of Claims simply
the ascertainment of the proper person to be paid the sum which it had
already acknowledged to be due to the representatives of the original
sufferers from the spoliation, and not that the decision which the Court
of Claims might arrive at should be the subject of an appeal to this
court; and that when such fact had been ascertained by the Court of
Claims, upon evidence sufficient to satisfy that court, it was to be certified by the court to the Secretary of the Treasury, and such certificate
was to be final and conclusive.
- THis was one of the claims originating in the depredations
committed by French cruisers upon the. commerce of American citizens prior to the year 1800, commonly called French
Spoliation Claims. Pursuant to the provisions of the act of
January 20, 1885, c. 25, 23 Stat. 283, the claim mentioned in
this proceeding (among many others of a like nature) was
presented to the Court of Claims, and that court made an
award, advising the payment of the claim, which was reported to Congress, pursuant to the act above mentioned, and
Congress, by the act of :March 3, 1891, c. 540, ยง 4, 26 Stat.
862, 897, 900, appropriated money " to pay the findings of
the Court of Claims on the following claims for indemnity
for spoliations by the French prior to July 31, 1301,"1
(among others, on page 900,) "on the ship Hannah, Richard

Fryer, master, namely,

to John A.. Brimmer, ad-

ministrator of John Gilliat, deceased, $35,84:0.44." By the
last clause in the act (page 908) Congress added a proviso
as a condition to the payment of the awards mentioned

UNITED STATES v. GILLIAT.
Statement of the Case.

therein, which reads as follows: "Provided, That in all
cases where the original sufferers were adjudicated bankrupts
the awards shall be made on behalf of the next of kin instead
of to assignees in bankruptcy, and the awards in the cases
of individual claimants shall not be paid until the Court of
Claims shall certify to the Secretary of the Treasury that the
personal representatives on whose behalf the award is made
represent the next of kin, and the courts which granted the
administrations, respectively, shall have certified that the legal
representatives have given adequate security for the legal disburseinent of the awards."
John A. Brimmer, the administrator to whom, by the act
of 1891, the appropriation was ordered to be paid upon the
condition above recited, was unable to comply with the same,
and Congress by the act of August 23, 1894., c. 307, 28 Stat.
424, 487, enacted "that the sum of $35,840.44, appropriated
to be paid- to John A. Brimmer, Jr., administrator of John
Gilliat, deceased, in the act entitled 'An act making appropriations to supply deficiencies in the appropriations for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1891, and for prior years and for
other purposes,' be paid to the person or persons entitled to
recover and receive the same, to be ascertained by the Court
of Claims upon sufficient evidence and certified to the Secretary of the Treasury." Proceeding under the above enactment, Charles G. Gilliat, the appellee, presented his petition
to the Court of Claims for the payment of one third of the
sum named, on the ground that he was a grandson of one of
the three original sufferers by reason of the seizure of the
ship Hannah, above mentioned, and had been duly appoijfted
administrator de bonis non of the estate of his grandfather by
the chancery court of the city of Richmond and State of Virginia. The Attorney General answered the petition of the
claimant, denied the allegations therein, and asked judgment
that the petition be dismissed.
Upon the hearing the Court of Claims decided that the
petitioner was the administrator of the estate of Thomas
'Gilliat, who was one of the three members of the firm of
Gilliat & Taylor, the original sufferers, and that the peti-

OCTOBER TZRII, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

tioner represented the descendants and next of kin of the
above-mentioned Thomas Gilliat, and the court certified to
the Secretary of the Treasury for payment to such adiniistrator to the extent of one third of the sum of $35,840A4,
appropriated by the act of March 3, 1891, being the sum of
$11,946.81, which was the extent of the interest of Thomas
Gilliat in the partnership of Gilliat & Taylor. The Attorney
General in his notice of appeal described the certificate of
the Court of Claims, which it made to the Secretary of the
Treasury, pursuant to the above act of March 3, 1S91, as a
judgment, and as such assumed to appeal therefrom to the
Supreme Court of the United States. The notice of appeal
was filed and allowed in open court by the Chief Justice of
the Court of Claims, and the record being before this court,
a motion was made to dismiss the appeal.
.Mr. F ank W. Hackett for the motion.
.Xb. Assistant Attorney General Dodge and Mr. Charles w.
_Ussell.opposing.
M . JUswIcn P=e&HA,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The appellee moves to dismiss the appeal in this proceeding
on the ground that the action of the Court of Claims was
conclusive under the special statute of August 23, 1894, c. 307,
28 Stat. 42-, 487, providing for the hearing of the question of
fact by the court as to what person was entitled to recover
and receive the amount appropriated to be paid to John A.
Brimmer, Jr., under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 540, ยง 4.
26 Stat. 862, 900.
We think the appeal should be dismissed. The original act
of Congress of January 20, 1885, by which the claimants in
the spoliation cases were referred to the Court of Claims, gave
no power to that court to enter judgment uppn its finding.
By section 6 of that act, the finding and report of the court
were to be taken merely as advisory as to the law and facts

UJNITED STATES v. OILLIAT.
Opinion of the Court.

found, and were not to conclude either the claimant or Congress. No appeal, therefore, could be taken from the report
of the Court of Claims made to Congress under that act. The
liability of the government for the payment to those entitled
to it of the amount of damages sustained by them by reason
of the capture of the ship Hannah and its cargo, owned by
the firm of Messrs. Gilliat & Taylor, was found by the Court
of Claims and reported to Congress pursuant to the act of
1885, and the appropriation was subsequently made by that
body for the payment of such damages. The person to whom
the appropriation was made was unable to receive the same,
because of his inability to comply with the proviso contained
in the act of appropriation. For the purpose of ascertaining
the person who might be entitled to recover and receive the
sum already appropriated by Congress for the payment of
the damages described, Congress passed the act referring to
the Court of Claims that single question, and that court, after
having ascertained the fact upon sufficient evidence, was by
the act directed to certify the same to the Secretary of the
Treasury. As the action of the Court of Claims upon the
original claim made under the act of 1885 was not the subject
of an appeal to this court, but was simply advisory in its
nature, the whole matter being left to the discretion of Congress, we think it clear that it was not the intention of that
body to permit an appeal from the finding of the Court of
Clairns upon the subsidiary question as to the particular person
to whom the appropriation already made by Congress should
be paid.
It was undoubtedly the intention of Congress, by the language used in the act of 1894, to refer to the Court of Claims
simply the ascertainment of the proper person to be paid the
sum which it had already acknowledged to be due to the representatives of the original sufferev's from the spoliation, and
it was not intended that the decision which the Court of Claims
might arrive at should be the subject of an appeal to this
court. We think Congress intended that when such fact had
been ascertained by the Court of Claims, upon evidence sufficient to satisfy that court, the fact was to be certified by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for.Parties.

court to the Secretary of the Treasury, and such certificate
was to be final and conclusive.
The case resembles in some aspects that of Efxparte Atocka,
17 Wall. 439. It differs from lFigo's case: EX parte United
States, 21 Wall. 648, because the original claim was never
referred to the Court of Claims for such judicial action as
should terminate" in a judgment, but it was only referred to
it by Congress for the purpose of receiving what is termed its
advisory conclusions, upon which Congress would proceed in
its discretion.
But aside from either of the above cited cases, the nature of
the original claim and the manner in which it has been treated
by Congress, and the language of the appropriation, as contained in the act of 1891, all clearly lead to the conclusion
that Congress intended the decision of the Court of Claims to
be final, and that the Secretary of the Treasury should pay
upon receipt of tile certificate provided for in the act.
The motion to dismiss the appeal is, therefore, granted, and
the
Afeal dismised.

UNITED STATES v. HEWECKER.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION

IN

OPINION FOR THE SOUTHERN

DIS-

TRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 547.

Submitted October 13, 1596. -Decided

October 26 1896.

Sections 651 and 697 of the Revised Statutes, relating to certificates of
division in opinion in criminal cases were repealed by the judiciary act
of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, both as to the defendants in criminal prosecutions, and as to the United States; and certificates in such cases cannot be granted upon the request either of the defendants or of the prosecution. 1ider v. United States, 163 U. S. 132, on this point adhered to.
MOTION

to dismiss. The case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr.Abram J. Rose for the motion.
.Xr. Assistant Attorney GeneralDic'inson opposing.

