In re ATLANTIC CITY RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court

In 'e ATLANTIC CITY RAILROAD.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted December 7,19.- Decided January 4,1891.

The power of this court to issue a writ of mandamus to an inferior court
Is well settled, but, as a general role, it only lies where there is no other
adequate remedy, and cannot be availed of as a writ of error.
The objection to the jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, presented by filing
the demurrer for the special and single purpose of raising it, would not
be waived by answering to the merits upon the demurrer being overruled.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. William houston Kenyon for petitioner.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an application for leave to file a petition for a writ
of mandamus. The petition states that the Atlaptic City
Railroad Company is a corporation created, organized and
existing under the laws of the State of New Jersey; that
May 20, 1896, a bill in equity was filed by the Union Switch
and Signal Company and the Fidelity Title and Trust Company, corporations organized and existing under the laws of
Pennsylvania, against petitioner and Joseph S. Harris, its
president, defendants, in the United States Circuit Court for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, for the alleged infringement of certain letters-patent for improvements in electrical signalling apparatus; that July. 6, 1896, petitioner appeared specially for the purpose of objecting to the jurisdiction of the
court, and, on August 3, filed a demurrer raising the question,
and on the same day defendant Harris also filed a demurrer to
the bill of complaint; that petitioner's demurrer was overruled
and defendant Harris was granted permission to withdraw his
demutrer, if he so elected.
That by virtue of the order overruling the demurrer petitioner is required, "as it is advised and believes, to enter a
general appearance by the 28th day of.December, 1896, and

OCTOBER TERMf, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

file an answer by the fourth day of January, 1897, or within
other reasonable time fixed by the court, or an interlocutory
decree will be issued against it directing the issuance of an
injunction against it and awarding damages and costs and an
acc6unting." That petitioner has a defence on the meritwhich is an adequate and complete answer to the bill; "that
it is advised and believes that it has no adequate remedy by
appeal"; and "that if it enters a general appearance or files
an answer in said case, it will thereby and by that act and
fact forever waive all objection to the jurisdiction of said
court, and this court will be forever ousted of its jurisdiction
to determine the jurisdiction of said court in said case, and
that, accordingly, your- petitioner has no adequate remedy
unless this court will grant the mandamus as- herein petitioned."
The prayer was for a writ of mandamus directed to the
judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, commanding them to dismiss,
as against your petitioner," the bill of complaint in the suit,
and "to vacate, as against your petitioner, the said order of
November 24, 1896, overruling the said demurrer of your
petitioner, and to enter a decree to that effect, all as prayed
for.'"
Copies of the bill of complaint, the special appearance, the
demurrer and of the order overruling the demurrer and
granting leave to withdraw the demurrer of Harris, without
prejudice, were annexed. The bill of complaint showed complainants to be corporations of Pennsylvania and citizens
thereof; the defendant, the Atlantic City Railroad Company,
to be a corporation and citizen of New Jersey, having its principal office at Philadelphia, and defendant Harris, its president, to be a citizen of Pennsylvania.
Petitioner's demurrer showed for cause "that it appears
upon the face of said bill of complaint that this court has no
jurisdiction over the person of this defendant the Atlantic
City Railroad Company, as it appears upon the face of the
said bill of complaint that this defendant is not an inhabitant
or citizen of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania or the State

In re ATLANTIC CITY RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

of Pennsylvania, but is an inhabitant and citizen of the district
and State of New Jersey."
The general power of the court to issue a writ of mandamus
to an inferior court, to take jurisdiction of a cause when it
refuses to do so, is settled by a long train of decisions; but
mandamus only lies, as a general rule, where there is no other
adequate remedy; nor can it be availed of as a writ of error.
L re Pe7rnsylvania Go., Petitioner,137 U. S. 451 ; In re .Morrison, Petitioner,147 U. S. 14; Ex parte Railway Company,
103 U. S. 7941; Ex parte Baltimore d Ohio 2ailroadCo., 108
U. S. 566.
In In re Hohorst, Petitioner,150 U. S. 653, the bill was filed
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York against a corporation and certain other defendants, and was dismissed against the corporation for want of
jurisdiction. From that order complainant took an appeal to
this court, which was dismissed for want of jurisdiction because
the order, not disposing of the case as to all the defendants,
was not a final decree from which an appeal would lie. 148
U. S.262. Thereupon an application was made to this court
for leave to file a petition for a writ of mandamus to the judges
of the Circuit Court to take jurisdiction and to proceed against
the company in the suit. Leave was granted and a rule to
show cause entered thereon, upon the return to which the writ
of mandamus was awarded.
In this case, however, the Circuit Court entertained jurisdiction and the petitioner has its remedy by appeal, if a decree
should pass against it. The objection to the jurisdiction presented by filing the demurrer, for the special and single purpose of raising it, would not be waived by answering to the
merits upon the demurrer being overruled. Southern Pacifc
Company v. Denton, 146 U. S.202.
To direct the exercise of jurisdiction is quite different from
a mandate not to do so, and We think we should not interpose
at this stage of the case in the manner desired.
£eavW denied.

