CAROTHERS v. MAYER,
Statement of the Case.

CAROTHERS v. MAYER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 144. Submitted November 4, 1896. - Decided November 30, 1896.
In an action of ejectment in a state court by a plaintiff claiming real estate
under a patent from the United States for a mining claim, a ruling by
the state court that the statute of limitations did not begin to run against
the claim until the patent had been issued presents no Federal question.
So, too, a ruling that matters alleged as an estoppel having taken place before the time when plaintiffs made their application for a patent, and
notice of such application having been given, all adverse claimants were
given an opportunity to contest the applicant's right to a patent, and that,
the patent having been issued, it was too late to base a defence upon
facts existing prior thereto, presents no Federal question.

Tnis was an action of ejectment originally brought by the
defendants in error, Isaac Mayer and Andrew J. Wilson, in
the District Court of the Sixth Judicial District of Montana,
in and for the county of Meagher, to recover possession of
five lots in the townsite of Neihart. The complaint alleged
a seisin in fee on July 22, 1887, and upon the trial plaintiffs
introduced in support thereof a patent of the United States
for the Keegan lode mining claim, bearing date July 27, 1887,
and running to the plaintiffs.
Defendants averred no privity of title under such mining
claim or patent, but set up, first, an adverse and exclusive
possession of the premises since June 1, 1882; and, second, an
equitable defence of estoppel atising from the following state
of facts, namely: That in April, 1882, when about fifteen or
twenty people were living in that vicinity, a meeting of citizens was held for the purpose of laying out a townsite, the
Keegan being then a located mining claim; that at such
meeting it was agreed that the surface ground should be
devoted to townsite uses; that each citizen should be entitled
to enter with the recorder not to exceed two of the lots as laid
off, and that each citizen entering lots should fence them;
that thereupon at such meeting the said mining claim owners,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

among others the predecessor in interest of plaintiffs, he being
at that time the claimant of the Keegan lode, agreed that the
surface ground should belong to the town, and gave the same
to the citizens for townsite purposes; that such premises were
so laid off for town purposes, and the lots were entered in the
manner agreed at the meeting with the knowledge and consent of plaintiffs' predecessor in interest.
A general deinurrer to this answer having been overruled,
plaintiffs replied by a denial of the defences therein set up.
Upon the trial defendants offered to prove an exclusive
continuous possession of the premise§ from 1882 down to the
commencement of the action, which offer was rejected by the
court, under objection from the plaintiffs that the statute of
limitations could not begin to run until the patent for* the
Keegan mining claim was issued, July 27, 1887, to which
ruling the defendants excepted, After making proof in
support of the equitable defences so pleaded, the trial court
refused all instructions asked by the defendants thereunder,
and directed the jury to return a verdict for the plaintiffs.
On appeal the judgment upon such verdidt was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of. Montana, 14]Montana, 274, whereupon
defendant sued out this writ, and assigned as error, first, the
ruling of the court in excluding evidence of the adverse possession of the defendants and their predecessors in interest prior
to the issuance of the patent; and, second, to the action of the
court in directing the jury to return a verdict for the plaintiffs.
Mr. E. T. Toole and Mr. William Wallace, Jr., for Plaintiff
inerror.
r . A. T. Britton and Mr. A. B. Browne for defendants in
error.
Mr. JusTic

BzowN, after stating the case, delivered the:

opinion of the court.
Upon the facts above stated, the Supreme Court held, first,
that the statute of limitations did not begin to run against the

CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO. v. WRIGHT.
Syllabus.

mining claim until the patent had been issued, following in
this particular King v. Thorna.9, 6 Montana, 409; and, second,
that the matters alleged as an estoppel having taken place
before the time the plaintiffs made their application for a
patent, and notice of such application having been given, that
all adverse claimants were given an opportunity of contesting
the applicant's right to a patent, and that the patent having
been issued, it was too late to base a defence upon facts existing
prior thereto, citing in support of its position a prior ruling of
the court in Talbott v. Zing, 6 Montana, 76.
Neither of these defences presents a. Federal question. Defendants asserted no right under a Federal statute; made no
claim under any Federal patent; claimed solely under a statute of limitations, which the highest court of the State declared
did not protect them, and certain matters of alleged estoppel
in pai8, which the court held to constitute no defence.
The writ of error must, therefore, be
Di missed.

CENTRAL RAILROAD AND BANKING COMPANY
v. WRIGHT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 300. Argued October 22, 1896. - Decided November 80, 1896.

Section eighteen of the act of the legislature of Georgia of December 14,
1835, providing that no municipal or other corporation shall have power to
tax the stock of the Central Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia,
but may tax any property, real or personal, of said company within the
jurisdiction of said corporation in the ratio of taxation of like property,
When construed in connection with other legislation on that subject, permits municipal corporations to tax such property within their respective
jurisdictions in the ratio of taxation of like property.
While, in the absence of any words showing a different intent, an exemption
of the stock or capital stock of a corporation may imply, and carry with
it, an exemption of the property in which such stock. is invested, yet, If
the legislature uses language at variance with such intention, the courts,

