OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument against the Motion.

CHAPMAN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 513.

Submitted November 2, 1896. -Decided November 30, 1896.

This court has no jurisdiction to review, on writ of error, a judgment of the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in a criminal case, under ยง 8
of the act of February 9, 1893, c. 74, 27 Stat. 434.

CHAPiAx was indicted in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia for an alleged violation of section 102 of the
Revised Statutes, in refusing to answer certain questions propounded to him by a special committee of the Senate of the
United States, appointed to investigate charges in connection
with proposed legislation then pending in the Senate. To this
indictment the defendant demurred on the ground, among
others, that section 102 of the Revised Statutes Was unconsti"
tutional, and that, therefore, the court was without jurisdiction
in the premises. This demurrer was overruled by the trial
court and its judgment thereon affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the District. 5 D. C. App. 122. Defendant was thereupon tried and convicted, and motions for new trial and in arrest
of judgment having been made and overruled (the question of
the constitutionality of section 102 being raised throughout the
proceedings), was sentenced to be imprisoned for one month in
jail and to pay a fine of one hundred dollars, which judgment
was affirmed on appeal. 24 Wash. Law Rep. 25 1.
A writ of error from this court was then allowed, 21 Wash.
Law Rep. 297, which the United States moved to dismiss.

Mr. Solicitor General for the motion submitted on his brief.
Mr'. George F. Edmunds, .Mr. Jeremiah i1. Wilson and .Mr.
A. A. Ifloehling, Jr., opposing, submitted on their brief.
I. After the plaintiff in error had been indicted, and before
trial was had, he prayed leave of this court to file a petition
for a writ of habeas co7:pus 156 U. S. 211, 218. That application was denied.

CHAPMAN v. UNITED STATES.
Argument against the Motion.

In. the case, In re Belt, 159 U. S. 95, 100, subsequently
decided by this court, in the opinion of the Chief Justice, it
is said: "We have heretofore decided that this court has no
appellate jurisdiction over the judgments of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia in criminal cases, or on
/uabeas corpus, but whether or not the judgments of the
Supreme Court of the District reviewable in the Court of
Appeals may be ultimately reviewed in this court in such
cases when the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States is drawn in question, we have
as yet not been obliged to determine": citing, 14 re Chapan,
1'etitioner,156 U. S. 211.
Prior to the passage of the act of the 9th of February,
1893, 27 Stat. 434, establishing the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, this court had held that it had no jurisdiction to review criminal cases from the Supreme Court of
the District. In re Heath, 14-1 U. S. 92; Cross v. United
States, 145 U. S. 571. In neither of these cases, however,
was jurisdiction sought to be maintained by reason of the fact
that there was drawn in question the validity of a statute of,
or an authority exercised under, the United States.
Section 8, of said act of February 9, 1893, provides as follows: "Any final judgment or decree of the said Court of
Appeals may be reexamined and affirmed, reversed or modified, by the Supreme Court of the United States, upon writ
of error or appeal, in all cases in which the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs, shall exceed the sum of five thousand dollars, in the same manner and under the same regulation as
heretofore provided for in cases of writs of error on judgments
or appeals from decrees rendered in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia; and also in cases, without regard to the
sum or value of the matter in dispute, wherein is involved
the validity of any patent or copyright, or in which is drawn
in question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States."
In section 5 of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat.
827, appeals and writs of error are provided for from the District Courts, or from the existing Circuit Courts of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument against the Motion.

States, to this court, in the following cases: "In cases of conviction of a capital or otherwise infamous ciime; in any case
that involves the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States; in any case in which the constitutionality of any law of the United States, or the validity or
construction of any treaty made under its authority is drawn
in question; and in any case in which the constitution or law
of a State is claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution
of the United States."
If, under the law of any State, a citizen thereof is convicted,
and it is claimed that the law of such State, under which he
is so convicted, is in contravention of the Constitution of the
United States, he is entitled to a writ of error for the purpose
of having his case reviewed in this court. Therefore, if the
contention of the government in the present case is correct
and well founded, namely, that no writ of error will lie to the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in a case such as
the one at bar, then it must result that Congress has discriminated between the said citizens of the said District and the
citizens of every State in the Union, because it has provided
that every citizen of a State who has been indicted and convicted under a law of the United States which is claimed to
be in contravention of the Constitution may have his case
reviewed by this court, while a citizen of the District of
Columbia (if this contention be correct), indicted and convicted under the -same law, may not have his case so
reviewed.
Prior to the passage of the act creating the Circuit Courts
of Appeals, this court had no appellate jurisdiction in criminal
cases arising in the Circuit Courts; but by that act, (enacted
in 1891,) jurisdiction was conferred upon this court to review
the decisions of said courts in all cases of conviction of a capital or otherwise infamous crime, in any case that involves the
construction or application of the Constitution of the United
States, and in any case in which the constitutionality of any law
of the United StAtes is drawn in question. The cases,'bf Heath,
of Cross and of Schneider, did not involve the question of
the validity of any law of the United States, as above stated.

CHAPMAN v. UNITED STATES.
Argument against the Motion.

Following this Circuit Court of Appeals act, in 1893, the
act creating the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
was passed. The Court of Appeals occupies the same relation
to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia that the
Supreme Court of a State occupies to the inferior courts of
such State, and it is only reasonable to interpret this act creating the Court of Appeals for the District, so as to give the
citizens of the District of Columbia the same rights as to writs
of error in criminal cases that are given to the citizens of the
States in like cases. As we have above seen, in all cases where
the validity of an act of Congress is called in question, a review
may be had of the decision of the court below, on writ of error,
in this court, and we respectfully submit that, if the language
of the statute in question is obscure, for the reasons we have
stated it should receive a liberal construction in favor, of the
citizen.
It seems to us that it must be obvious that Congress did not
intend to discriminate against persons accused and convicted
of crime in the District of Columbia, which would necessarily
result from the contention of the Solicitor General in this case,
if sustained.
The importance in principle, in right and in the harmony
required in respect of reviewing decisions of all courts established under the authority of the United States, justifies a
critical examination and consideration of the various provisions of the statutes on the subject.
From the organization of the government uintil recently no
decision of a United States court, either in the circuits or in
the Territories, in a criminal case, could be reviewed on appeal
or writ of error by this court.
The language of the law respecting District and Circuit
Courts of the United States was literally confined to civil
cases. The language of section 1909 of the Revised Statutes,
claimed by the learned court below and by the Solicitor General to be the same as that of the District Court of Appeals
act of 1893, is, that writs of errdr and appeals shall be allowed
under the same regulations, etc., as from the Circuit Courts
where the value of the property or the amount in controversy

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument against the Motion.

exceeds one thousand dollars. Then comes the exception, as
follows: "Except that a writ of error or appeal shall be allowed
to the Supreme Court of the United States upon writs of
habeas cowpus." Section 1911 provides for writs of error, etc.,
from Washington Territory-" Where the value of property
or the amount in controversy exceeds two thousand dollars;
and such writs of error and appeals shall be allowed in all
cases where the Constitution of the United States or a treaty
thereof, or acts of Congress, are brought in question."
The act of Congress of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 443, prohibited any writ of error, etc., to the Supreme Court of the
District, and to the Supreme Courts of the Territories, "unless
the nmatter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed the sum
of five thousand dollars," and then follows the limitations:
"That the preceding section shall not apply to any case in
which is involved the validity of any patent or copyright, or
in which is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or
statute of or an authority exercised under the United States;
but in all such cases an appeal or writ of error may be brought
without regard to the sum or value in dispute."
The plain effect of that act was to leave the law just as it was
before, except in respect of the sum involved, with the addition
of the new provision. As it regards the District of Columbia,
that question of the validity of treaties and statutes, etc., might
be reviewed without regard to the sum or value in dispute.
This was the state of the statute law, except in respect to
capital cases, at the time of the passage of the act of March
3, 1891, establishing Circuit Courts of Appeals of the United
States. That act radically changed the course of jurisprudence in the courts of the United States, in respect of criminal
cases, by prescribing a review in this court in all cases of constitutional construction, or the validity of any law or treaty of
the United States, etc., thus changing, in the interests of justice, and uniformity and supreme authority of decision, the
practice of a century. Before that date the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia and the Circuit Courts of the
United States stood on precisely the same ground in respect
of the finality of their jurisdiction in criminal cases.

CHAPMAN v. IUNITED STATES.
Argument against the Motion.

Then came the act of February 9, 1893, establishing the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia and reducing
-the Supreme Court of the District to substantially the same
relation to the new court as inferior courts in the States, and
as the District Courts before the act of 1891 bore to the highest courts of the States, and to the Circuit Courts of the
United States. By this act nothing could be taken from the
Supreme Court of the District directly to this court, and it
put the District Court of Appeals in precisely the same attitude as to the Supreme Court of the District that the Circuit
Courts of the United States, before the act of 1891, held in
respect to the District Courts of the United States.
Then section 8 of the act of 1893 provided for a review of
the judgments of the District Courts of Appeals, "in all
causes in which the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall
exceed the sum of five thousand dollars, in the same manner
and under the same regulations as heretofore provided for in
cases of writs of error, or upon judgments or appeals from
decrees rendered in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia." Then, instead of providing as the principal territorial acts had provided, an exception relating to the same
class of subjects, it provided in a distinct clause, and affirmatively, as follows: "And also in cases, without regard to the
sum or value of the matter in dispute, wherein is involved the
validity of any patent or copyright., or in which is drawn in
question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority
exercised under, the United States."
It is respectfully and confidently submitted that this language and the construction of the section differ essentially from
the previous statute in respect of writs of error, etc., to the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and from the
acts relating to all the Territories, except Washington. The
Washington Act is constructed in the same manner as the section now under consideration, except that it does not contain
the word "also."
The words "and also," used together, are those of almost
immemorially precise and technical meaning. They are words
of legal art, and import not a restriction or qualification of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument against the Motion.

matter previously stated, but an affrmative and'an additiona
independent proposition. They are the literal translation of
the words "ac etiam," used in ancient and in comparatively
modern pleading as importing a distinct movement and transition fromt what had been previously declared to a new and
independentsubject, capable of standing, and intended to stand,
by itself.
The grammatical construction, therefore, of this eighth section of the act of 1893 gives this court-appellate jurisdiction
in every case decided by the District Court of Appeals in
which is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute
of, or an authority exercised under, the United States, without
any reference or regard to the previous clause in the section
defining and limiting the mere pecuniary jurisdiction of the
c6urts of the District of Columbia - a jurisdiction wider,
indeed, than any other court of the United States -and requiring that it should not be exercised in constitutional cases
without the same power of review by ihis court that the act
of 1891 had provided with respect of all Circuit Courts of the
United States.
It is monstrous to suppose that Congress ever had any other
purpose in view, and we repeat that it used the very language
and construction of the section precisely adequate to that end.
It may be added that there cannot be a civil suit in which
there is not "a sum or value" in dispute. And, therefore, it
follows that when the statute declares that neither "sum or
value" shall be the test in respect of questions of constitutional consideration, etc., there is nothing to which the authority to review can be applied other than to criminal cases in
which such constitutional questions arise. If there had been
no money limit to the first clause of the section, no one, we
think, would question that the second clause gave appellate
jurisdiction to this court in all cases in which constitutional
questions, etc., arose. ]But the second clause stands precisely
the same in respect to the first as it would have stood if the
first had made no reference to pecuniary amounts, for as we
have shown, the clause is not one of limitation or qualification,
but of addition and transition.

CHAPMANT v. UNITED STATES.
Argument against the Motion.

This court has never yet decided, even in the case of the
former statutes for the District of Columbia or the Territ9ries, that it did not have appellate jurisdiction in criminal
cases involving constitutional questions and the like. There
is not even an intimation of the character in all the de6ided
cases, excepting a remark of the late Mr. Justice Blatchford,
in Farnsworth v. .Montala, 129 U. S. 104, 111. That case
showed that the pecuniary limit had not been reached, and
it showed that no question of constitutional consideration
existed in it. The learned justice, in deciding it, referred to
Watts v. Washington, 91 U. S. 580, and-said that the language
of the court in that case was obiter dictum.
It is submitted, with the sincerest respect to the late justice,
that in making that observation he was mistaken. This court
in deciding the Watts case, through Chief Justice Waite, said,
as the fundamental and only ground of the decision, that:
"This court can only review the final judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Washington in criminal
cases when the Constitution or a statute or treaty of the
United States is drawn in question.
"This is a criminal case; but the record. does not present
for our consideration any question of which we can take jurisdiction. It nowhere appears that the Constitution or any
statute or treaty of the United States is in any manner drawn
in question."
The foregoing is the whole of the decision. If, ther, anything was obiter in the decision, it must have been the whole
of it. That case was decided in 1875.
Kurtz v. 3foffatt, 115 U. S. 487, decided in 1885j' has no
application to the present case. All that was held there was
that the law did not provide for reimoving a habeas corpus
proceeding from the state to the Circuit Court, and that a
private citizen had no right to arrest a deserter from the army
without warrant. It was a case depending entirely upon
whether the statutes for removal of cases applied to habeas
copu8, a civil procedure having no money value concerned
in it.
In Snow v. United States, 118 U. S. 346, 348, decided in

OCTOBER TERM:- 1896.
Argument against the Motion.

1885, it was held, that the appellate jurisdiction of this court
did not exist, because the validity of a statute of the United
States, etc., was not drawn in question; and this upon the construction of ยง 702 of the Revised Statutes, to which we have
already referred; and the court expressly said that Utah does
not fall within the clause concerning constitutional questions,
because the section is in terms limited to Washington alone.
in -Inre Schneider, 148 U. S. 157, decided in 1892, no question of the yalidity.of a statute or of constitutional right was
involved, and the application for a writ of error was denied,
the court holding that the proceeding in habeas corpus below
was a civil proceeding, and that the pecuniary clause in the
statute did not apply.
All these decisions, and others of the same character, were
made before the passage of the District Courts of Appeals
act of 1893. It must be presumed that Congress was familiar
with the course of th~se decisions when, in defining the jurisdiction of this court by the act of 1893, it reformed the language of former acts, and that it intended thereby to put its
appellate jurisdiction bn the same footing in respect to the
highest court in the District of Columbia, with its almost
illimitable jurisdiction, upon the same footing that Congress
had provided by the act of 1891, in respect to all the Circuit
Courts of the whole country.
II. The present case is one over which this court has jurisdiction,,because there is a sum of money in dispute.
The statute under which the plaintiff in error was indicted,
tried and convicted is one which* provides, in section 1, that,
upon conviction, the party shall be punished "by a fine of not
more than one thousand dollars nor less than one hundred
dollars, and imprisonment of not less than one month nor
more than twelve months." There is, therefore, necessarily
involved in this case a sum in dispute.
The language of the act, in substance, is, that if the validity
of a statute is drawn in question in any case, the eburt shall
have jurisdiction regardless of the amount in question; but in
cases where the validity of a statute is not drawn in question,
the amount in dispute must be not less than $5000.

CHAPMIAN v. UNITED STATES.
Argument against the Motion.

Now, it is respectfully submitted that this is a case in which
a money value is involved, because the statute is imperative
that there shall be a judgment, in base of conviction, for at
least $100, and it may be $1000, depending upon the decision
of the court in view of the gravity of the offence. This question, so far as we have been able to find, has never been
decided by this court.
In the case of Farnsworth v. .lXontana, 129 U. S. 104,
the punishment inflicted was a fine of $50 and $17.50 costs.
The statute under which that case was prosecuted provided
that the case could not be reviewed in this court unless the
matter in dispute amounted to $5000, and this court, in that
case, said:
"The judgment of the Probate Court was imprisonment
until the payment of the fine and costs, and, if the fine covered
by the judgment of any one of the courts could be called a
matter in dispute within the first section of the act of 1885,
the pecuniary value involved did not exceed $5000, so that it
is-plain that the first section of the act of 1885 does not cover
the case."
So it appears, in the above-named case, that it was decided
solely upon the ground that the amount involved did not reach
the statutory limit.
In the case of Snow v. United States, 118 U. S. 354, the
plaintiff in error was convicted, in the Territory of Utah, on
indictments found under section 3, of the act of March 22, 1882,
for cohabiting with more than one woman, the judgment of
the court being imprisonment for'six months and a fine of
$300. Section 1909 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States provides, that writs of error and appeals from the final
decisions of the Supreme Court of any one of eight named
Territories, of which Utah was one, "shall be allowed to the
Supreme Court of the United States in the same manner and
under the same regulations as from the Circuit Courts of the
United States, where the value of the property or the amount
in controversy exceeds $1000."
In the opinion of the court, by Mr. Justice Blatchford, it
Is said: "In each of the present cases the pecuniary value

OCTOBER TERMI, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

involved does not exceed $300, even if the fine could be
called a 'matter in dispute,' within the statute."
It will be seen, therefore, that, in each of said cases, this
court did not decide that the imposition of a fine could not be
regarded as a matter in dispute capable of being valued in
money, but merely decided that, in the cases presented, the
amount of the fine did not equal the jurisdictional sum required by the statutes regulating the review upon writ of
error. In the case at bar no such difficulty arises, as the
statute provides for a review in this court of the cases enumerated "without regard to the sum" or value of the matter
in dispute."
There is one hundred dollars in amount and value in dispute
in this case -just as much and more than it could be in an
ordinary civil case, and in connection with it there is the question of the validity of the statute which the court below has
said authorized it to exact that sum from the plaintiff in error.
This brings the case literally within section 8 of the act of
18939, even upon the contention of the other side ifn
respect of
its meaning.
MR. CuIEF JusTrcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The appellate jurisdiction of this court rests on the acts of
Congress, and the question is whether we have jurisdiction to
review on writ of. error a judgment of the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia in a criminal case under section 8
of the act of February 9, 1893, c. 74, establishing that court.
27 Stat. 434. And the proper construction of that section is
to be arrived at in the light of previous decisions in respect of
similar statutory provisions conferring appellate jurisdiction.
Section 8 of the act of February 27, 1801, c. 15, entitled "An
act concerning the District of Columbia," 2 Stat. 103, and
creating a C.ircuit Court for the District, provided: "That
any final judgment, order or decree in said Circuit Court,
wherein the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed
the value of one hundred dollars, may be reexamined and

CHAPMKAW v. UNhITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court of the United
States, by writ of error or appeal, which shall be prosecuted
in the same manner, under the same regulations, and the same
proceedings shall be had therein, as is or shall be provided in
the case of writs of error on judgments, or appeals upon orders
or decrees, rendered in the Circuit Court of the United States."
In United States v. lore, 3 Cranch, 159, 173 (decided in
1805), it was held that this court had no jurisdiction under
that section over the judgments of the Circuit Court of the
District in criminal cases, and Chief :Justice Marshall said:
"On examining the act, ' concerning the District of Columbia,'
the court is of opinion, that the appellate jurisdiction, granted
by that act, is confined to civil cases. The words, 'matter
in dispute,' seem appropriated to civil cases, where the subject in contest has a value beyond the sum mentioned in the
act. But, in criminal cases, the question is the guilt or innocence of the accused. And although he may be fined upwards
of one hundred dollars, yet that is, in the eye of the law, a
punishment for the offence committed, and not the particular
object of the suit."
The section, as thus construed, was carried forward in the
subsequent legislation on the subject, which is referred to at
length and considered in cases hereafter cited, and need not
be again reviewed.
The act of March 3, 1885, c. 355, 23 Stat. 443, consists of
two sectiofis, reading:
"That no appeal or writ of error shall hereafter be allowed
from any judgment or decree in any suit at law or in equity
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, or in the
Supreme Court of any of the Territories of the United States,
unless the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed the
sum of five thousand dollars.
"Src. 2. That the preceding section shall not apply to any
case wherein is involved the validity of any patent or copyright, or in which is drawn in question the validity of a treaty
or statute of or an authority exercised under the United States;
but in all such cases an appeal or writ of error may be brought
without regard to the sum or value in dispute."

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

We have decided that this court has no jurisdiction to grant
a writ of error to review the judgments of the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia in criminal cases either under the
judiciary act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, In re
Heath, 144: U. S. 92; or under the act of February 6, 1889,
c. 113, 25 Stat. 655, Cross v. United States, 145 U. S. 571; or
on habeas eoipus, Cross v. Burke, 146 U. S. 82. And although
the validity of any patent or copyright, or of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States,
was not drawn in question in those cases, it was distinctly
ruled in reaching the conclusions announced that neither of
the sections of the act of March 3, 1885, applied to any
criminal case; and Farnsworth v. 2lontana, 129 U. S. 104;
United States v. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310, and United States v.
.Aore, 3 Cranch, 159, were cited with approval. Cross v.
United States, 145 U. S. 574; Cross v. Burke, 146 U. S. 87.
In Farnsworth v. .ontana, in which it was claimed that

the validity of an authority exercised under the United States
was drawn in question, it was held that the second section of
the act did not extend to criminal cases, but that both sections
applied to cases where there was a matter in dispute measurable
by some sum or value in money. The view taken was that
the second section contained an exception or limitation carved
out of the first section, and that the words, that in the enumerated cases, "an appeal or writ of error may be brought without regard to the sum or value in dispute," clearly implied
that in those cases also there must be a pecuniary matter in
dispute measurable by some sum or value, though not restricted
in amount.
In United States v. Sanges, referring to Snow v. United
States, 118 U. S. 346, we said: "The question whether the
provision of the act of March 3, 1885, c. 355, ยง 2, authorizing a
writ of error from this court to the Supreme Court of any
Territory in any case 'in which is drawn in question the
validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised
under, the United States,! extended to criminal cases, was
then left open, but at October term, 1888, it was decided in
the negative. Farnsworth v.X.ontana, 129 U. S. 104."

CHAPMAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

And in Washington & Georgetown Railroad v. District of
Columbia, 146 U. S.. 227, 231, it was said: "Both sections
of the act of March 3, 1885, regulating appeals from the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, apply to cases
where there is a matter in dispute measurable by some sum or
value in money. Farnsworth v. Montana, 129 T. S. 104, 112;
Cross v. Burke, 146 U. S. 82. By that act no appeal or writ
of error can be allowed from any judgment or decree in any
suit at law or in equity in the Supreme Court of the District
of Colunibia, unless the matter in disiute exclusive of costs
shall exceed the sum of . five thousand dollars, except that
where the case involves the validity of any patent or copyright, or the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States, is drawn in question,
jurisdiction may be maintained irrespective of the amount
of the -sum or value in dispute."
Watts v. Tlashington Territory, 91 U. S. 580, decided at
October term, 1875, is cited as sustaining a different construction, but the point of decision there was that it nowhere
appeared that the Constitution or hny statute or treaty of the
United States was in any manner drawn in question, and the
broad language of the opinion was plainly obiter, as pointed
out in Farnsworthv. .Montana.

The eighth section of the act of February 9, 1893, establishing the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, is as
follows:
"SEc. 8. That any final judgment or decree of the said
Court of Appeals may be reexamined and affirmed, reversed
or modified by the Supreme Court of the United States, upon
writ of error or appeal, in all causes in which the matter in
dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed the sum of five thousand dollars, in the same manner and under the same regulations as heretofore provided for in cases of writs of error
on judgment or appeals from decrees rendered in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; and also in cases,
without regard to the sum or value of the matter in dispute, wherein is involved the validity of any patent or
copyright, or in which is drawn in question the validity of
VOL. cLx

-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

a treaty or statute of or an authority exercised under *the
United States."
We regard this section and the act of 1885 as the same in
their meaning and legal effect. The act of 1885 prohibits
appeals or writs of error unless the matter in dispute exceeds
the sum of $5000, and provides that the restriction shall not
apply to certain enumerated cases, "but that in all such cases
an appeal or writ of error shall be brought without regard to
the sum or value in dispute."
The act of 1893 allows appeals or writs of error whenever
the matter in dispute exceeds the sum of $5000, and also in
cases "without regard to the sum or value of the matter in dispute," wherein the validity of any patent or copyright or of:
a treaty or statute of or an authority exercised under the
United States is drawn in question, being the same cases
mentioned in the second section of the. act of 1885. We
think as that section clearly applied to cases where there' was
a pecuniary matter in dispute, measurable by some sum or
value, as has been repeatedly de~ided, the last clause of section eight of the act of 1893 must receive the, same construction. *The meaning of both statutes is that in the cases
,enumerated the limitation on" the amount is removed, but
both alike refer to cases where there is a pdcuniary matter
-in dispute, measurable by some sum or value, and they
allike have no application to criminal cases. The suggestion
that because the punishment for conviction by the statute
under which plaintiff in error was indicted, tried end convicted embraced a fine, there was therefore a sum of money
in dispute, was disposed of by Chief Justice :Mfarshall in
United States v. ffore, supra. We repeat the language of
the Chief Justice: "In criminal cases, the question is of the
guilt or innocence of the accused. And although he may be
fined upwards of one hundred dollars, yet that is, in the eye
of the law, a punishment for the offence committed, and not
the particular object of the suit."
It is contended that the words "and also" as used in the section untfer consideration are words "of legal art," of "almost
immemenially precise and technical nieaning," and import,

CHAPMhIAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

not a restriction of matter previously stated, but a transition
from what had been previously declared to a new and independent subject intended to stand by itself.
We do not care to go into the struggle between the courts
of King's Bench and Common Pleas on the question, of the
jurisdiction of the former over civil actions, which led to
the curious device of the ac etiam, more particularly to avoid
the effect of 13 Car. II, 2 Stat. c. 2. It was invented in order
to couple with a cause of action over which the Court of
King's Bench had jurisdiction, anothei cause of action, over
which, without being joined with the first, the court would
not have had jurisdiction. 2 Sellon's Pract. Appendix, 625,
630; Burges on Insolvency, 135, 149.
We are unable to conclude that Congress, which might
easily have conferred jurisdiction in plain and explicit language, resorted to this ancient contrivance to effect it.
The argument is pressed that as by section five of the judiciary act of 1891, cases of conviction of capital or otherwise
infamous crimes; cases involving the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States; or cases in
which the constitutionality of any law of the United States is
drawn in question, can be brought to this court directly from
the District and Circuit Courts of the United States, therefore
this section should be construed as giving the same right of
review in the District of Columbia.
But we think the section too plain to admit of this. No
mention of the courts of the District of Columbia is made in
the act of March 3, 1891, and there is nothing in the eighth
section to justify its expansion so as to embrace the provisions
of that act. In re Reath, Petitioner,144 U. S. 92, 96.
The writ of error was granted by the Court of Appeals in
this case with-reluctance, as appears from the opinion of Chief
Justice Alvey, in passing upon the application therefor, given
in the record, and out of deference to the supposed intimation
in In e Chiapman, 156 U. S. 211, and 1h 'e Belt, 159 U. S.95,
that it night lie. It is quite possible that the language used
in the opinions in those cases was somewhat too cautiously
worded, but it was with the purpose, as the question was not

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

raised for decision, of avoiding rather than expressing any
views upon it.
We are of opinion that the writ of error cannot be maintained.
Writ of error di8inised.

PRATHER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No.546. Submitted November 2;1896. -Decided

November 30,1896.

Chapman v. United tates, ante, 436, followed.

MOTION to dismiss.

.Mr.Solicitor GeneraZ for the motion.
.Mr. H. E. Davis and -Mr. eremiah X. Wilsom opposing.
THE CIEF JUSTICE: On the question of our appellate jurisdiction this case differs in no material respect from Chapman
v. United States, just decided, ante, 436. The motion to dismiss the writ of error is sustained.
WTrit "oferror didmi88ed.

PERRINE v. SLACK.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT -OF COLUMBIA.
No. 549. Submitted October 13,'IS96. -Decided November 30, 1896.
The controversyin this case being between the mother and the testamentary guardian of infant children, each claiming the right to their custody
and care, the matter in dispute is of such a nature as to be incapable of
being reduced to any pecuniary standard of value; and for this, and for
the reasons given In Chapman v. United States, ante, 436, It Is held that
this court has no jurisdiction to review judgments of the Court of
Appeals under such circumstances.

