NOFIRE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

NOFIRF v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 578. Submitted December 15,1896. -Decided

January 4,189T.

The fact that a marriage license has been issued carries with it a presumption that all statutory prerequisites thereto have been complied with, and
one who claims to the contrary must affirmatively show the fact.
Persons coming to a public office to transact business who find a person in
charge of it and transacting its business in a regular way, are not bound
to ascertain his authority to so act; but to them he is an officer defacto,
to whose acts the same validity and the same presumptions attach as to
those of an officer de jure.
The evidence shows that the deceased sought, in his lifetime, to become a
citizen of the Cherokee Nation, took all the steps he supposed necessary
therefor, considered himself a citizen, and that the Cherokee Nation in
his lifetime recognized him as a citizen and still asserts his citizenship.
Held, that, under those circumstances, it must be adjudged that he was
a citizen by adoption, and consequently that the jurisdiction over the
ofience charged is, by the laws of the United States and treaties with
the Cherokee Nation, vested in the courts of that Nation.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. A88sftant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
No appearance for plaintiffs in error.
MR. JusrcE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
Plaintiffs in error were indicted in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Arkansas for the
murder of Fred. Rutherford cc at the Cherokee Nation in
the Indian country," on December 15, 1895. They were
tried in May, 1896, found guilty by the jury, and, on June
12, the verdict having been sustained, they were sentenced to
be hanged.
The principal question, and the only one we deem it neces:
VOL. CLX.Iv--42

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

sary to notice, is as to the jurisdiction of the court. The
defendants were full-blooded Cherokee Indians. The indictment charged that Rutherford was "a white man and ot an
Indian," but testimony was offered for the purpose of showing that although a white man he had been adopted into the
Cherokee Nation, which, if proved, would oust the Federal
court-of -jurisdiction within the rule laid down in Alberty v.
United States, 162 U. S. 499. In that case it was held that
the courts of the Nation have jurisdiction over offences committed .by one Indian upon the person of another, and this
-includes, by virtue of the statutes, both Indians by birth and
Indians by adoption. The Cherokee Nation claimed jurisdiction over the defendants. This claim was denied by the
Circuit Court, which held that the evidence of Rutherford's
adoption by the Nation was not sufficient, and that therefore
the United States court had- jurisdiction of the offence. An
amefidment in 1866 to section 5 of article 3 of the Cherokee
constitution gives the following definition of citizenship:
"All native-born Cherokees, all Indians and whites legally
members of the Nation by adoption, . . . and their descendants, who reside within the limits of the Cherokee
Nation, shall be taken and be deemed to be citizens of the
Cherokee Nation." (Laws of Cherokee Nation, 1892, p. 33.)
The Cherokee statutes make it clear that all white men
legally married to Cherokee women and residing within the
Nation are adopted citizens. (Sections 659, 660, 661, 662,
663, 666 and 667, Laws of the Cherokee Nation, 1892,
pp. 329, and following.) Section 659 requires that before
such marriage shall be solemnized the party shall obtain a
license from one of the district clerks. Sections 660 and 661.
provide that one applying for such license shall present to the
clerk a certificate of good moral character, signed by at least
ten respectable citizens of the Cherokee Nation, and shall
also take an oath of allegiance. On October 4, 1894, Rutherford was married to Mrs. Betsy Holt, a Cherokee woman.
The marriage license, with the certificate of the minister of
the performance of the ceremony, and the indorsement of the
record of the certificate, is as follows :

/

NOFIRE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

" Marriage licenae.
"CHEROKIEE NATIOx, TARLEQUAir DIsTRICT.

"To any person legally authorized, greeting:
"You are hereby authorized to join in the holy bonds of
matrimony and celebrate the rites and ceremonies of marriage
between Mr. Fred. Rutherford, a citizen of the United States,
and Mis' Betsy Holt, a citizen of the Cherokee Nation, and
you are required to return this license to me for record within
thirty days from the celebration of such marriage, with a certificate of the same appended thereto and signed by' you.
"Given under my hand and seal of office this the 28th day
of August, f891.
[Seal of Tahlequah district, Cherokee Nation.]

"R.

M. DENNENBEEG,

"Deputy Clerk, Tahlequah Di8trict.
"This certifies that Mr. Fred. Rutherford, of Tahlequah
district, C. N., I. T., and Mrs. Betsy Holt, of Tahlequah dist.,
Cherokee Nation, I. T., were by me united in the bonds of
marriage at my home on the 4th day of October, in the year
of our Lord eighteen hundred and ninety-four, conformable
to the ordinance of God and the laws of the.Cherokee Nation.

"EvANs P. ROBERTSON,
"MinSter of the Gospel.

"S. E. ROBERTSON,
" WitnemS pre8ent at the -Marriage.
"I hereby certify that the within certificate of marriage
has this day been by me recorded on page 28, Record of Marriages, in the clerk's office in Tahlequah district, Cherokee
Nation, this February 4th, 1896.
[Seal of the Tahlequah district, Cherokee Nation.]
" ARCH SPEARS,

"Deputy Clerk, Tahlequah Di8triet, Cherokee Nation."
The performance of the marriage ceremony was also proved
by the minister, a regularly ordained Presbyterian preacher.
T. W. Triplett was the clerk of the Tahlequah district at the
date of this certificate. R. M. Dennenberg was his deputy,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

but at the time of the issue of the license both the clerk and
his deputy were absent, and the signature of the deputy was
signed by John C. Dennenberg, his son. The clerk, the deputy and his son, each testified that the latter was authorized
to sign the name of the clerk or the deputy in the absence of
either, and that the business of the office was largely transacted by this young man, although not a regularly appointed
deputy. He made quarterly reports, fixed up records and
issued scrip, and his action in these respects was recognized
by thQ clerk and the Nation as valid. No petition, as required by the statute, was found among the papers of the
office, but there was testimony that all the papers of the office
had been destroyed by fire since the date of the marriage
license, and the younger Dennenberg testified that a petition
was presented containing the names of ten citizens; that he
could not remember the names, but, at the time, made inquiry
and satisfied himself that they were all respectable Cherokee
citizens. There was testimony also. that Rutherford offered
to vote at an election subsequent to his marriage; that his
vote was challenged, and on inquiry it was ascertained that he
was a Cherokee citizen, and his vote received. Upon these
facts the question is presented whether Rutherford was a
Cherokee citizen by adoption. The Circuit Court held that
the evidence was insufficient to show that fact, and that therefore that court had jurisdiction.
With this conclusion we are unable to concur. The fact
that an official marriage license was issued carries with it a
presumption that all statutory prerequisites thereto had been
complied with. This is the general rule in respect to official
action, and one who claims that any such prerequisite did
not exist must affirmatively show the fact. Bank of the
United States v. Dandridge, 12 Wheat. 64, 70; Rankin v.
iloyt, 4 How. 327 ; Butler v. .Maples, 9 Wall. 766; WTeyauwega v. Ayling, 99 U. S. 112; Gonzales v. Ross, 120 U. S.
605; Callaghan v. -Myer8, 128 U. S. 617; Eeyser v. litz, 133
U. S. 138; -Knox County v. Ninth .NationalBank, 147 U. S.
91, 97. In this last case it is said "it is a rule of very general application, that where an act is done which can be done

NOFIRE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

legally only after the performance of some prior act, proof of
the later carries with it a presumption of the due performance
of the prior act."
It is true that the younger Dennenberg, who signed the
marriage license, was neither clerk nor deputy, but he was an
officer defacto, if not dejure. He was permitted by the clerk
and the deputy to sign their names; he was the only person
in charge of the office; he transacted the business of the office,
and his acts in their behalf and in the discharge of the duties
of the office were recognized by'them and also by the Cherokee Nation as vilid. Under those circumstances his acts must
be taken as &fficial acts, and the license which he issued as of
full legal force. As to third parties, at least he was an officer
de facto; and if an officer de facto, the same validity and the
same presumptions attached to his actions as to those of an
officer dejure.
Again, it is evident that :Rutherford intended to change his
nationality and become a Cherokee citizen. He took the steps
which the statute prescribed and did, as he supposed, all that
was requisite therefor. He was marrying a Cherokee woman,
and thus to a certain extent allying himself with the Cherokee
Nation. He sought and obtained the license which was declared
legally prerequisite to such marriage if he intended to become
an adopted citizen of that Nation. That he also obtained a
marriage license from the United States authorities does not
disprove this intention. It only shows that he did not intend
that there should be any question anywhere, by any authority,
as to the validity of his marriage. He asserted and was permitted to exercise the right of suffrage as a Cherokee citizen.
Suppose, during his lifetime, the Cherokee Nation had asserted
jurisdiction over him as an adopted citizen, would he not have
been estopped from denying such citizenship? Has death
changed the significance of his actions ? The Cherokee Nation
not only recognized the acts of young Dennenberg as the acts
of the clerk, but since the death of Rutherford it has asserted
its jurisdiction over the Cherokees who did the killing-a
jurisdiction which is conditioned upon the fact that the party
killed was a Cherokee citizen.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

It appears, therefore, that Rutherford sought to become a
citizen, took all the steps he supposed necessary therefor, considered himself a citizen, and that the Cherokee Nation in his
lifetime recognized him as a citizen and still asserts his citizenship. Under those circumstances, we think it must be adjudged
that he was a citizen by adoption, and consequently the jurisdiction over the offence charged herein is, by the laws of the
United States and treaties with the Cherokee Nation, vested
in the courts of that Nation.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed and the
case remanded with instruotions to surrender the defendants to the duly constituted authorities of the Cherokee
Nation.

FORD v. DELTA AND PINE LAND COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 25. Argued October 16, 19, 1896. -Decided

January 4, 189T.

Exemptions from taxation are t~o be strictly construed, and no claims for
them can be sustained unless within the express letter or the necessary
scope of the exempting clause; and a general exemption is to be construed as referring only to the property held for the transaction of the
business of the party exempted.
The exemption from taxation conferred by the 19th section of the act of
the legislature of Mississippi of November 23, 1859, c. 14, upon the railroad company chartered by ihat act, does not extend to property other
than that used in the business of the company, acquired under the authority of a subsequent act of the legislature in which there was no
exemption clause.
A clause in a statute exempting property from taxation does not release it
from liability for assessments for local improvements.
It has been held in Mississippi not only that special assessments for local
improvements do not come within the constitutional limitation as to
taxation, but also that the construction and repair of levees are to be
regarded as local improvements for which the property specially benefited may be assessed; and this rule is in harmony with that recognized
generally elsewhere, to the effect that special assessments for local improvements are not within the purview of either constitutional limitations in respect of taxation, or general exemptions from taxation.

