ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v. LAIRD.

393

Syllabus.

time he was struck by the rock. ' When from the nature of
the attack.' That implies not that he can act upon a state of
case where there is a bare conception of fear, but that there
must exist that which is either really or apparently an act
of violence, and from that the inference may reasonably be
drawn that there was deadly danger hanging over Acers, in
this case, at that time."
These are all the matters complained of. We see no error
in the rulings of the court, and, therefore, the judgment is
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS

4Armd.

dissented.

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
v. LAIRD.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 64. Submitted October 2T, 1896.-Decided November 30, 1896.

The complaint In this case charged that the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6
Company and the plaintiff in error, corporations of the State of Massachusetts, were, at the time of the injury complained of, jointly operating
a railroad; that the defendant was travelling upon it with a first class
ticket; and that by reason of negligence of the defendants an accident
took place which caused the injuries to the plaintiff for which recovery
was sought. The answers denied joint negligence, or joint operation of
the road, and admitted that the plaintiff in error was operating it at the
time. A trial resulted in a verdict in favor of the Atchison Company and
against the plaibtiff in error. On the trial the complaint was amended by
substituting "second class" for "1first class" ticket, and that the charters were by acts of Congress, and to the complaint so amended the
statute of limitations was pleaded. A judgment on the verdict was set
aside and an amended complaint was filed in which the plaintiff in error
was charged to have done the negligent acts complained of, and recovery
was sought against it. A second trial resulted in a verdict against the
company. Held,
(1) That the action was ez delicto ; that the defendants might have been
sued either separately or jointly; that recoirery might have been
had, if proof warranted against a single party; and that the amend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.
ment, dismissing one of two joint tort feasors, and alleging that
the injury complained of was occasioned solely by the remaining
defendant, did not introduce a new cause of action;
(2) That the amendment stating that the plaintiff was travelling upon a
second class ticket instead of a first class ticket, and that the
plaintiff in error was chartered by an act of Congress instead of
by a statute of Massachusetts, as originally averred, did not state
a new cause of action.

THE action below was originally brought in a state court
in California against the plaintiff in error and the Atchison,
Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad Company to recover damages
for personal injuries sustained on November 3, 1890, by the
derailment of a train of cars upon which the plaintiff was
a passenger. It was alleged in the complaint that each of
defendants was a corporation of the State of Massachusetts;
that they jointly owned and operated a described line of railroad; that plaintiff was a passenger on one of the trains coming westward on said line of railroad, holding and travelling
upon a first class ticket entitling her to travel between named
stations, and the liability of the defendants was claimed to
arise by reason of alleged negligence, both in the construction
of the road and in the management of the train. Upon the
several applications of the defendants, the cause was transferred to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of California. In that court answers were
filed denying that the defendants were jointly guilty of
the negligence complained of or that they jointly operated
the line of railroad described in the complaint, but admitting
that the defendant, the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, was operating the road. The cause was tried for the
first time in November, 1892, and resulted in a verdict for
plaintiff against the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company,
and in favor of the Atchison Company. On the trial the
plaintiff was allowed to amend her complaint by alleging that
the ticket upon which she was travelling was a "second class"
ticket instead of, as alleged in the original complaint, a "first
class" ticket. To the. cause of action stated in the complaint
as thus amended the defendants pleaded a statute of limitations of two years. Judgment was entered on the verdict,

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v. LAIRD.

395

Opinion of the Court.

but this judgment was subsequently set aside, with leave to
the plaintiff to amend her complaint. On February 7, 1893,
a second amended complaint was filed, in which the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Company was charged to have owned
and operated the line of railroad in question, and to have done
the negligent acts averred in the original complaint. An
attack upon this pleading was made in the trial court by motion to strike from the files, by demurrer, by motion for judgment upon the pleadings, and by special requests for directions
to the jury upon the second trial of the case. The ground of
all such attacks was that the pleading set up a new cause of
action, against which the statute of limitations had run at the
time of the filing of such pleading. The cause was tried for
the second time in April, 1893, and a verdict was again rendered against the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company. A
judgment upon such verdict was subsequently affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 15 U. S. App. 248. By writ of
error such judgment of affirmance was brought to this court
for review.
.Mr.A. T. Britton, Mr. A. B. Browne and Mr. C. N. Sterry
for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. George H. Smith, Mr. Frank H. Short and Mr. Edwin A. Me8erve for defendant in error.
.MR. JUSTICE

WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

It is not controverted that under section 339 of the Code of
Civil Procedure of California a cause of action' of the character of that set forth in thevarious complaints filed on behalf
of plaintiff was required to be instituted within two years
after the cause of action accrued.
The, question to be determined, therefore, is whether the
trial court erred in holding that the amendments effected by
the second amended complaint did not set up a new cause
of action; for, if the second amended complaint stated a distinct and independent cause of action, the bar of the statute

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

should have been allowed to prevail.

Union Pacijic Rail-

way Company v. Wiley, 158 U. S. 285.

The contention of the plaintiff in error that there was a
.departure resulting from the amended petition is based upon
two propositions: 1, that the parties defendant in'the original
complaint were sued jointly ex quasi contractu, and were lia-

ble only upon proof. of a joifit contract, whilst the amended
petition proceeded upon a contract made only by one and a
different person than those originally sued; and, 2, because
certain averments in the petition as to the place of incorporation of plaintiff in error and as to the character of ticket
upon which the plaintiff travelled changed the cause of action.
We will discuss these two contentions separately.
1. Was the action stated in, the original complaint one
against the defendants as distinct and separate corporations,
or against them as a single entity or artificial being, and what
was the nature of the cause of action P

It is urged by the plaintiff in error that as the complaint,
after alleging that the defendants jointly owned and operated
the line of road in question and jointly committed the alleged
negligent acts, charged that they together "were a common
carrier of passengers on said road," that such allegation must
be construed as an averment that the defendants were a single
company, and that it cannot be assumed that one or the other,
by itself,"had capacity to violate any duty of a common carrier of passengers, or that either had power to sue or be sued
separately and alone from the other.
-This construction of the complaint is obviously a forced
and unnatural one. In the caption of the complaint the two
defendants were designated as distinct corporations and several defendants, while in separate paragraphs each defendant
was alleged to be a corporation, duly incorporated under the
laws of the State of Massachusetts, and having its principal
place of business outside of the State of California. Soon
after the filing of the complaint each defendant presented its
separate application for removal of the cause to the Federal
court. In that of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 road
it was averred that it was a corporation organizea, existing

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v. LAIRD.

397

Opinion of the Court.

and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the
State of Kansas. The Atlantic and Pacific Company averred
in its application that it was a corporation duly created, organized and existing under an act of Congress, which, it was
expressly alleged, authorized it to construct and operate, as a
common carrier of passengers and freight, certain described
lines of railroad, including the line of railroad upon which
plaintiff received her injury. The answer filed on behalf of
the defendants was "joint and several," and it was therein
admitted that the defendant, the Atlantic and Pacific Company, plaintiff in error here, was operating the line of railroad in question. The case presented by the complaint, giving
to the language employed the reasonable inferences which it
should receive, was one where each of two corporations was
proceeded against as a common carrier of passengers, exercising their respective corporate powers concurrently, the two
corporations acting together, just as several individuals might
have done.
Looking then to the averments of the complaint, we find
it stated that the defendants, as common carriers, jointly
owned and operated a described line of railroad; that on
November 3, 1890, the plaintiff was a passenger on a train
of cars then being run by the defendants, which train was
derailed and thrown from the track and the plaintiff injured.
Was this an action ex quasi contractu as now claimed?
Before proceeding to answer this question, we observe
that it seems manifest, from the attacks originally made
upon the amended complaint, that this claim is an afterthought. The motion to strike from the files, demurrer,
answer and motion for judgment upon the pleadings proceeded upon the assumption that the cause of action stated
in both complaints was subject to a limitation of two years,
whereas it did not appear upon the face of the complaint,
but that the agreement, if any, made by the alleged contract
was entered into in the State of California, in which event
the statutory limitation for commencing the action would
have been four years. The fact that a written contract was
executed in Ohio, which it is claimed was established on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

trial, was not at any time specially set up as a defence to the
amended complaint.
It is clear that the original complaint is not susceptible of
the construction now attempted to be given to it.. Though it
is alleged that the plaintiff was the holder of and travelling
upon a certain ticket, no undertaking or promise by the defendants was averred, nor is there any allegation of the breach
of any undertaking or promise. The reference to the ticket
joined with the allegation immediately preceding it, that the
plaintiff was a passenger on the described line of railroad, was
evidently introduced by the pleader to show the existence of
the relation of passenger and carrier between the plaintiff and
the defendants. Because of such relation the duty to exercise
due care in the carriage of the passenger was imposed upon the
defendants, and from the recital of the negligent acts committed arose the implication of the failure of the defendants
to perform that legal duty. As said by Martin, B., in Legge
v. Tuccer, 1 H. & N. 500, 501:
"In the case of carriers, the custom of the realm imposes on
them a duty to carry safely, and a breach of that duty is a
breach of the law, for which an action lies founded on
the common law, and which does not require a contract to
support it."
-Legge v. Tucker was in form an action on the case for the
negligence of a livery stable keeper in the care and custody of
a horse. It was held that the foundation of the action was
a contract, and that whatever way the declaration was framed
it was an action of assumpsit. The line which distinguisles
the case at bar from an action ex quasi contractu is thus
expressed in the remarks of Watson, B., who said (p. 502):
"The action is clearly founded on contract. Formerly, in
actions against carriers, the custom of the realm was set out
in the declaration. Here a contract is stated by way of inducement, and the true question is, whether, if that were
struck out, any ground of action would remain. lVilliamson
v. Allison, 2 East. 452. There is no duty independently of
the contract, and therefore it is an action of assumpsit."
The doctrine is very clearly expressed in Kelly v. .Metro-

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v. LAIRD.

399

Opinion of the Court.

politan, Railway Company, (1895) 1 Q. B. 944, where the
Court of Appeals held that an action brought by a railway
passenger against a company for personal injuries caused by
the negligence of the servants of the company, while he was
travelling on their line, was an action founded upon tort. In
reading the judgment of the court, A. L. Smith, L. J., said
(p. 947):
"The distinction is this -if
the cause of complaint be for
an act of omission or nonfeasance which, without proof of a
contract to do what has been left undone, would not give
rise to any cause of action (because no duty apart from contract to do'what is complained of exists) then the action is
founded upon contract and not upon tort. If, on the other
hand, the relation of the plaintiff and the defendants be such
that a duty arises from that relationship irrespective of contract, to take due care, and the defendants are negligent, then
the action is one of tort."
So, in the case at bar, there was a duty shown, independently of contract; and the trial court, looking at the allegations of a complaint which had not been demurred to, solely
for the purpose of determining the propriety of an amendment, was manifestly justified in holding that the right to
recover was not founded upon the breach of a contract, but
upon the neglect of a common law duty.' The action therefore was ex delicto, and the defendants, being joint tort
feasors, might have been sued either separately or jointly
at the election of the injured party, and if, upon the trial,
the proof warranted, a recovery might have been had against
a single defendant. Sessions v. Johnson, 95 U. S. 347.
The right of recovery against one of several joint tort
feasors thus existing is in principle analogous to the rule declared by Chitty at page 386 of his work on pleading, to the
effect that in torts the plaintiff may prove a part of the charge
if the averment be divisible and there be enough proof to support
his case. This is illustrated at page 392, where Chitty says:
"In an action ex delicto, upon proof of part only of the
injury charged, or of one of several injuries laid in the same
count, the plaintiff will be entitled to recover pro tanto, pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

vided the part which is proved afford per se a sufficient cause
of action, for torts are, generally speaking, divisible."
As, therefore, in an action against joint tort feasors recovery
may b6 had against one, it follows that allegations alleging a
joint relationship and the doing of negligent acts jointly are
divisible, and that a recovery may be had where the proof
establishes the connection of but one of the defendants with
the acts averred. The case also comes within the principle of
the rule alluded to by Chitty, lb. 393, that "a .gen eral averment, including several particulars, may be considered 'eddendo 8ingula singulis." He instances the case of a declarition
fora false return to a ft.fia. against the goods of A and B,
wherein it was alleged that A and B had goods within the
bailiwick, and it was held to be sufficient to prove that, either
of them had, the averment being severable.
But even though the action was founded upon a contract,
under the rules of practice in California a recovery might
have been had against either defendant. Thus, in Shain v.
-Forbes,82 California, 577, which was an action against two
defendants to recover compensation for professional services
alleged to have been rendered for them jointly by an attorney
at law, pending the action one of the defendants died. It
was argued that the testimony of a certain witness, not being
admissible against the repres6ntatives of the deceased defendant, was not competent for any purpose, because the action
was joint, and that no several judgment could be rendered
against the surviving defendant. To this argument the
Supreme Court answered:
"It is true that the rule contended for existed at common
law, but from the earliest time it has been changed by statute
in this State. The code provides: 'Judgment may be given
for or against one or more of several plaintiffs, and for or
against one or more of several defendants, and it may, when
the justice of the case requires it, determine the ultimate right
of the parties on each side, as between themselves.' Id. ยง 578.
And this was but a reenactment of section 145 of the old
practice act. Under this provision it has been held that
where two persons are sued jointly upon a joint contract,

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILIROAD v. LAIRD.

401

Opinion of the Court.

judgment may be rendered in favor of the plaintiff against
one of the defendants, and in favor of one of the defendants
against the plaintiff. Rowe v. Chandler, 1 Cal. 168; Lewis
v. Clarkin, 18 Cal. 399; People v. Frisbie,Id. 402.
In our opinion a several judgment might have been rendered against McPherson."
It results that if the nature of the action was not changed,
the amendment merely dismissing one of two joint tort
feasors and alleging that the injury complained of was occasioned solely by the remaining defendant did not introduce
a new cause of action.
2. Did the amendments stating that the plaintiff was travelling zpom a "second class" ticket instead of, as stated in the
or2ginalcomplaint, a "first class" ticket, and that the Atlantic
and Pacific Company was chartered by an act of Congress instead of by the laws of .lfassachusetts,as averred in the original complaint, state a new cause of action?
The changes made clearly were not of the essence of the
cause of action, and could in nowise have injuriously prejudiced the Atlantic and Pacific Company. Amendments of
this character were plainly allowable. The Code of California, section 471, virtually forbids amendments only where
the allegation of the claim or defence would be changed in its
general scope and meaning. Illustrations of the construction
given to these provisions are found in several cases. Smullen v. Phillips, 92 California, 408, was an action of slander,
and the words charged to have been spoken were, "He is a
thief." The proof introduced at the trial was that the words
uttered were, "That thieving-, he stole $2500 from me,
and I can prove it." An amendment of the complaint was
at once allowed over the objection of the defendant that
the statute of limitations barred the cause of action as thus
amended. The Supreme Court of California held that the
scandalous words alleged in the original complaint were not
qualified or altered in their sense or meaning by those proven
to have been used by the defendant, that the cause of action
remained the same, and that the amendment simply obviated
a variance between the allegations and the proof.
VOL. cLxiV-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

In Redington v. Cornwell, 90 California, 49, it was held
that as the original complaint declared on two notes, alleging
that they were given "for value received," and were assigned
by indorsement, and also alleged facts from which an equitable assignment would result, an amended complaint which
omitted the allegation of indorsement and alleged that the
debt was for money loaned and for a balance due on account,
set up substantially the same cause of action, the averment as
to value received being equivalent to the more specific allegations of the items of money loaned and due on account.
In Bogart v. Crosby, 91 California, 278, the complaint in an
action against a firm of real- estate agents to recover money
deposited on a verbal contract of sale which had been rescinded was amended by making the owners of the land
defendants, and alleging that defendants were an association
of two or more persons doing business under a common name.
A second amended complaint was filed, alleging that only the
agents constituted the association, and both amendments
charged all the defendants with having received the deposit
from plaintiff and to his use.
The court said (p. 281):
"It is claimed by appellants that the cause of action stated
inthe last amended complaint is, as against appellants, e ssentially different from that alleged in the first amended coiplaint, and that, as it was not filed within two years after the
cause of action accrued, the same is barred- by the provision
of subdivision 1 of section 339 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
We do not agree with appellants in this contention; the difference between the first and second amended complaint is
not so marked that the latter can be deemed the statement
of an entirely new and different cause of action against the
appellants. In both amended complaints the appellants are
charged with having received from plaintiff, and to his use,
the money sued for, and with a refusal to pay it to plaintiff
when demanded."
As we hold that the dismissal of the Atchison Company
did not operate to change the cause of action against the
other corporation, and that the allegations of the second

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. NEBRASKA.

403

Statement of the Case.

amended complaint substantially counted upon the same
wrong charged in the original complaint, to wit, a neglect
of duty causing ifijury to plaintiff while travelling as a passenger, upon a ticket, irt a train of cars over a described line
of railroad, and between specified stations, it results that the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appels was right, and it is

Affirmed.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
NEBRASKA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASRA.
No. 1. Argued March 4, 1696.-Decided November 80, 1896.

The taking by a State of the private property of one person or corporation,
without the owner's consent, for the private use of another, is not due
process of law, and is a violation of the Fourteenth Article of Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
A statute of a State, by which, as construed by the Supreme Court of the
State, a board of transportation is authorized to require a railroad corporation, which has permitted the erection of two elevators by private
persons on its right of way at a station, to grant upon like terms and
conditions a location upon that right of way to other private persons in
the neighborhood, for the purpose of erecting thereon a third elevator,
in which to store their grain from time to time, is a taking of private
property of the railroad corporation for a private use, in violation of
the Fourteenth Article of Amendment of the Constitution of the United

States.

TuIs was a writ of error to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska, awarding a writ of
mandamus to compel the Missouri Pacific Railway Company,
a corporation of Nebraska, to comply with an order of the
Nebraska State Board of Transportation, which directed the
company to grant to John W. Hollenbeckand others the right
and privilege of erecting an elevator upon the grounds of the
railway company at its station at Elmwood.
By the "constitution of Nebraska of 1875, art. 11, see. 4,
"Railways heretofore constructed or that may hereafter be

