CAKE v. MOHUN.
Statement of the Case.

upon performance or tender of payment on their part.

Telf-

ver v. Riess, 162 U. S. 171; Yelsey v. Crowther, 162 U. S.404.

These were the views that prevailed in the Supreme Court of
the Territory, and its judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.

CAKE v. MOHUN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 123. Argued November 2, 1696.- Decided November 30, 196,
After the death of the receiver, this case was properly revived in the name
of his executrix.
While, as a general rule, a receiver has no authority, as such, to continue
and carry on the business of which he is appointed receiver, there is a
discretion on the part of the court to permit this to be done when the
Interests of the parties seem to require it; and in such case his power
to incur obligations for supplies and materials incidental to tile business
follows as a necessary incident to the office.
A purchaser of property at a receiver's sale who, under order of court, in
order to get possession of the property gives an undertaking, with surety,
conditioned for the payment to the receiver of such amounts as should be
found due him on account of expenditures or indebtedness as well as compensation, thereby becomes liable for such expenditures and indebtedness.
In determining what allowances shall be made to a receiver and to his
counsel this court gives great consideration to the concurring views of
the auditor or master and the courts below; and it is not disposed to
disturb the allowance in this case, although, if the question were an
original one it might have fixed the receiver's compensation at a less
amount.

THIS was an appeal taken by Horace Al. Cake and the
administrators of William B. Moses, surety upon a certain
undertaking of his to pay Francis B. M[ohun, appellee's intestate, such sums as the court should find to be due the latter
as receiver of the furniture, equipments and other personal
property of the hotel known as La Normandie, in the city of
Washington.
The original bill was filed April 23, 1891, by the appellant
Cake to foreclose a chattel mortgage or deed of trust executed

OCTOBER TERMI,

1896.

Statement of the Case.

by one Woodbury to William B. Moses and John 0. Heald, to
secure an indebtedness of $75,000 to Cake, and covering the
furniture and other personal property in the hotel, a part of
which property was also subject to a prior mortgage or-deed
of trust to secure the payment of the rent of the hotel. As it
was manifestly for the interest of all parties that the hotel
should not be closed, shortly after the bill was filed, and on
May 5, 1891, Francis B. Moiun was appointed receiver, with
instructions to take possession of the property, "and to carry
on and manage the business of keeping said hotel in substantially the same manner in which it has heretofore been carried
on," provided that he gave a bond in the sum of $15,000, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties as such
receiver.
Upon his appointment, Mohun at once took possession of
the hotel and personal property as receiver, and carried on
the business until December 4, 1891, when he was directed to
surrender the property to the appellant Cake, who became the
purchaser'under a decree of foreclosure, subject to the prior
mortgage, as well as the unexpired term of the lease, which
was sold by the marshal on an execution against Woodbury.
Before taking possession, however, Cake was required to file
an undertaking, with surety, conditioned for the prompt payment to the receiver of such amounts as should be found to be
due him on account of his expenditures or indebtedness, as
well as of his compensation; and also conditioned 'that a
decree might be pronounced against such surety,.as well as
against the principal obligor, for the payment of such amounts.
This undertaking was executed by Cake, with William B.
Moses as surety, and was filed December 4, 1891. The undertaking having proved satisfactory to the court, possession was
surrendered, and the cause referred, by order of the court, to
an auditor, with directions to state the account of the receiver,
and directing that all questions as to the payment of expenses
incurred by him in the performance of his duties or as to the
settlement of his unpaid obligations be reserved until the
coming in of the auditor's report. Before the accounts were
stated, Moses, the surety upon, the undertaking, died intestate,

CAKE v. MOHUl.
Argument for Appellant.

and the administrators of his estate were brought in and made
parties to the cause.
The auditor proceeded to take proof under the reference
and stated an account, showing an aggregate sum to be paid to
the receiver of $8332.53. This sum was made up as follows:
Indebtedness of the receiver incurred in the conduct
of the business .............................
$5038 74
Allowance for compensation for his services ........ 2793 79
Allowance to his counsel ......................
:
500 00
Total ....................
$8332 53
Exceptions were filed to this report by the appellant Cake,
by the administrators of Moses as surety upon the undertaking, and by Mohun, the receiver. Upon the hearing of these
exceptions, they were all overruled, the report ratified and
approved, and a final decree passed for the payment to the
receiver of the above amount. All parties appealed from this
decree to the Court of Appeals, which affirmed the decree of
the Supreme Court of the District, reducing the amount by a
small credit of $7.59 to $8321.94. Cake v. Woodbury, 3 App.
Cas. D. C. 60. Before this decree was entered, Ilohun having
died, his executrix, Mattha V. Mohun, was substituted in his
place. From this decree of the Court of Appeals, Cake and
the administrators of Moses, his surety, appealed to this court.
Mr. W. L. Cole for Moses, appellant.
I. The receiver was an officer of the court, discharging
duties imposed upon him by its orders. Upon his death his
powers and duties could not devolve upon his personal representative.
I. A receiver has no power to contract debts so as to make
them a charge on the trust fund without express authority
from the court. Lehigh Coal & Nav. Co. v. N. J. Central
Railroad,35 N J. Eq. 426; Brown v. Hazlehurst, 54 Maryland, 26 ; High on Receivers, §§ 175, 188 ; Addison v. Lewis, 75
Virginia, 701; Cawdrey v. Galveston, -louston &c. Railroad,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

1 Woods, 331; S. C.93 U. S. 352; Tiip v. Boardman,49 Iowa,
410; Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203, 218.
A party dealing with a receiver must take notice of his
want of authority. Tripp v. Boardman, 49 Iowa, 410 ;.Xen•nedy v. St. Paul & .PaciicRailroad, 5 Dillon, 519.
Ile cannot make a contract that will bind his successor.
Lehigh Coal & IYavigation Co. v. Central Railroad,35 N. J.
Eq. 426; Cowdrey v. Railroad Co., 1 Woods, 331.
Debts contracted without previous authority of the court
Union Trust
are subordinate to the secured indebtedness.
Company v. Illinois Midland Company, 11:7 U. S. 434.
III. After the appointment of the receiver the complainant
in the bill was no more responsible for. the conduct and manarement of the property than any other party to the suit.
Ile was in no way liable for the acts of the receiver or the
debts incurred by him.
" A receiver is not appointed for the benefit of either of the
parties, but of all concerned. Money or property in his hand
is in oustodia legis. He has only such power and authority
as are given him by the court, and must not exceed the prescribed limits." Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 218.
IV. The amount allowed the receiver for compensation is
excessive. A discussion of the proper compensation to be
allowed receivers will be found in the following cases: Farmers' Loan c Trust Co. v. Central Railroad,2 McCrary, 181;
Woven Tape Skirt Co., 85 N. Y. 506; Stretch v: Gowdey, 3
Tenn. Oh. 565.
-Mr.J. J. Darlingtonfor appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
1. The first error assigned is to the allowance by the court
below of a revival of the case in the name of the executrix of
Francis B. Mohun. As the original decree in favor of Mohun
was passed March 10, 1893, and as the order making the
executrix a party. was made by the Court of Appeals January

CAKE v. MOHUN.
Opinion of the Court.

4, 1894, it would appear that Mohun died after the case had
been carried to the Court of Appeals and before it was finally
decided. It will scarcely be claimed that a judgment in his
favor lapsed by his death, and that no one could be authorized to make it available or collect it. As no one had been
appointed to succeed him, and the receivership had, in fact,
terminated by the sale of the property and the installation
of the purchaser, it would seem that, from the necessities of
the case, the right to collect this judgment must have passed
to the personal representatives of Mohun. Beyond this, however, one third of the decree was for his own services, and to
that extent, at least, his executrix was entitled to represent
him, and was properly made a party. While his powers and
duties as receiver would not devolve upon his personal representatives, a judgment entered in his favor for his own
compensation, and for an indebtedness, for which he had
assumed an individual liability, would pass to such representatives, and might be enforced by them. It is impossible
that the court should be called upon to appoint a successor
for that purpose. That the receiver had in fact assumed a
personal liability for the bills contracted by him in the conduct of his business is evident from the very fact that he
made claim for the same against the plaintiff Cake and his
surety Moses under their undertaking of December 4, 1891.
The question whether a receiver has assumed such personal
liability or not is one to be determined from the facts and
circumstances of the case. Ryan v. Rand, 20 Abb. N. C.
313; People v. Universal Life Ins. Co., 37 N. Y. Sup. Ct.
(30 Hlun), 142; Ferrin v. -Myrick, 41 N. Y. 315; Rogers v.
Wendell, 61 N. Y. Sup. Ct. (54 Hun), 540; Schm ittler v.
See also Cowdrey v. Galveston,
Simon, 114 N. Y. 176.
Houston &c. Railroad, 93 U. S. 352, 355.
2. That the receiver exceeded his authority in incurring
Admitthe indebtedness mentioned in the auditor's rep.,'
tiLg to its fullest extent the general proposition laid down by
this court in Cowdrey v. Galveston, Hfouston &c. Railroad,
93 U. S. 352, that a receiver has no authority, as such, to
continue and carry on the business of which he is appointed

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

receiver, there is a discretion on the part of the court to
permit this to be done temporarily when the interests of the
parties seem to require it. Under such circumstances, the
power of the receiver to incur obligations for supplies and
materials incidental to the business follows as a necessary
incident to the receivership. Barton v. Barbour, 104 U. S.
126, 135; Thiompson v. Phenixv Insurance Co., 136 U. S.
287, 293.
In the case under consideration the receiver was expressly
authorized by the court "to carry on and manage the business of keeping said hotel in substantially the same manner
as it has heretofore been carried on"; and by a subsequent
order, was authorized to borrow, not to exceed $8000, for the
purpose of paying the rent and other necessary and urgent
debts incurred, or to be incurred, on account of the running
expenses of the hotel. In view of the fact that the closing of
the hotel, even temporarily, would have soon become known
to its patrons, and would probably have been attended by a
serious loss to the good-will of the business, we think the
court did not exceed its authority in directing the receiver to
keep it open during the pendency of the suit.
Beyond this, however, appellants are in no condition to
make this objection, since in their undertaking of December
4, 1891, they agreed to pay the receiver such sums of money
as the court should thereafter find to be due him on account
of his indebtedness or expenditures as receiver, or on account
of his compensation as such receiver.
3. The assignment that it was error to find that Cake, the
plaintiff in the suit, was personally liable for the expenditures
and indebtedness of the receiver, is fully met by the abovementioned undertaking which Cake was obliged to give before
taking possession of the property. Iad he refused to give
this undertaking, it would have been perfectly competent for
the court to have required enough of the purchase money to
be paid in cash to discharge the expenses of the receivership,
and to compensate the receiver. It is true that Cake might
not have been personally liable in the absence of this undertaking, but, as he chose to assume this responsibility in order

CAKE v. MOHUN.
Opinion of the Court.

to obtain immediate possession of the property, and to avoid
the paymient of any part of the purchase money into court,
he is in no condition to set up this defence.
4. The only assignment that strikes us as entitled to any
weight is that wherein complaint is made of. the amount
allowed to the receiver for his compensation, which was itemized by the auditor as follows:
Allowance of tea per cent on the receipts of the
business ...................................
$2510 8
Allowance of five per cent on the amount received
from trustees and paid to George J. Seufferle..
31 05
Allowance of five per cent on disbursements of
indebtedness ..............................
251 93
Total ........ I ..................
$2793 79
Counsel fee .....................
500 00
In view of the fact that the receiver had never been in the
hotel business; that he employed a manager at $125, and part
of the time at $150 a month, and required of him a bond for
the faithful performance of his duties; that he was not prevented from giving his usual attention to his private business,
and ordinarily spent only his evenings at the hotel, we are
bound to say that, if it had been an original question, we
should have fixed his compensation at a considerably less
amount.
Upon the other hand, however, as it appears that the hotel
was kept open during the summer months at a very considerable loss; that the receiver was obliged to raise money to pay
the rent and meet a deficiency each month; that the position
was attended with considerable anxiety; that he retained it
apparently against his own inclinations and in compliance
with the wishes of the parties in interest; that proprietors of
other large hotels iri Washington testified that $5000 a year
was a fair compensation, and there was no evidence to the
contrary ; that the auditor, upon full consideration of all the
facts of the case, made the allowance; that it was subsequently approved by the learned judge of the Supreme Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of the District, and, upon appeal, by the three justices of the
Court of Appeals, we are not disposed to disturb it. Great
consideration will be paid to the concurring views of the
auditor or master and the courts respecting a mere question
of amount. High on Receivers, § 781 to 786.
It has been said in a number of cases that an allowance of
five per cent upon the receipts and disbursements of the business was a fair compensation to receivers, Stretch v. Gowdey,
3 Tenn. Oh. 565; but in view of the facts above stated and
the further fact that no compensation was allowed him for
the custody and responsibility of the large amount of personal
property that came into his possession, we are not prepared
to say that the allowance was so excessive as to justify us il
reducinog it.

The reasons given by the auditor for the allowance of $500
counsel fee are full and satisfactory. "The record shows that
the receiver was frequently called into court either to answer
the call of other parties in the cause or to ask instructions or
authority from the court to meet emergencies arising in the
business. It is evident that wise and capable advice was
needed to protect him in the proper discharge of his duties,
both as affecting himself and his responsibility, and as affecting the property entrusted to his charge. In view of what is
disclosed in the record and proceedings, I consider the sum so
allowed to be reasonable and fair." High on Receivers, § 805.
This disposes of all the errors assigned, and, upon the whole,
we think the judgment of the court should be
4Aflrmed.

