OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of-the Case.

GONZALES v. FRENCH.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 84. Argued and submitted April 27, 28, 1896. -Decided

November 80, 1896.

As the claim *ofthe plaintiff in error, claiming under an alleged preemptlon,
was passed upon by the proper officers of the laud department, originally
and on appeal, and as the result of the contest was the granting of a
patent to the contestant, in order to maintain her title she must show
either that the land department erred in the construction of the law
applicable to the case, or that fraud was practised upon its officers, or
that they themselves were chargeable with fraudulent practices, which
she has failed to do.
The claim of the plaintiff in error to a right of preemption is fatally defective because her vendors and predecessors in title had failed to make or
Ifile an actual entry in the proper laud office.

EmMA J. Gonzales, in October, 1891, filed a bill of complaint
in the District Court of the Fourth Judicial District of the
Territory of Arizona, against E. W. French, probate judge of
the county of Yavapai and Territory of Arizona, and former
trustee of the inhabitants of the town of Flagstaff, of the
county of Coconino, and J. E. Jones, probate judge of said
counby of Coconino, and the successor as trustee of the inhabitants of the said to'vn of Flagstaff, and therein alleged that
she was the equitable owner of a certain tract of land containing 120 acres, and forming part of section 16, T. 21 N., R.
7 E. of the Gila and Salt River meridian. The facts, as
alleged by her, were substantially these: Prior to the survey
of said township, Thomas F. McMillan, Frank Christie and
Conrad Farriner, who were citizens of the United States, over
,the age of twenty-one years, and qualified preemptors, while
prospecting for a home upon the public lands of the United
States subject to preemption, or that nmight so become when
the same should be surveyed, settled on this land, intending
to claim the same as pregmptors, and were on said land at
the date of survey in 1878 ; that they had built dwelling

GONZALES v. FRENCH.
Statement of the Case.

houses thereon and reduced portions of it to cultivation prior
to such survey; that they continued to improve and claim the
same until in June, 1883, when the plaintiff bought from the
said occupants all their improvements and took possession
thereof ; that she afterwards, and while living on the land
she now claims, built a dwelling house thereon and made
other improvements, prior to April 2, 1885, of the value of
$3000; that, on said date, she made formal application to the
register and receiver of the United States Land Office at
Prescott, Arizona, to be allowed to file a preInmption declaratory statement for the land, and to enter the same, tendering
to said officers the proper price therefor, said application
being made before any adverse claimant was known, but her
application was rejected on the- ground that the land was reserved for schools; that on February 3, 1889, Congress passed
an act for the relief of the inhabitants of Flagstaff, Arizona,
the tract involved in this suit being embraced in the half section mentionedin said act, by which it was provided that the
probate judge of Yavapai County might enter the south half
of section sixteen, township twenty-one north, range seven
east, in trust for the occupants and inhabitants of Flagstaff.
The bill further alleged that the tracts settled on at the date
of the survey were excepted by section 2275 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States from the reservation of the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections in each township for school
purposes, but that, if not so excepted, the land claimed by her
was released from any such reservation by said act of February 13, 1889, and became subject to her settlement claim; that
the said French, p!obate judge, had been permitted, on January 17, 1889, to make townsite declaratory statement for the
benefit of the inhabitants of Flagstaff for said "half section;
that she, the plaintiff, contested the right of the said French
to make townsite entry, and prosecuted her protest by successive appeals to the Commissioner of the General Land Oftice
and the Secretary of the Interior, but that a patent of the
United States was issued to said French on said entry for said
land; that at the time she purchased said improvements and
settled on the land, the town of Flagstaff was unorganized

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

and unknown, and none of the inhabitants were then settled
.on said land or claiming any part of it; and that on the organization of Coconino County the land in suit became a part
thereof, and the defendant Jones became probate judge of the
new county and the successor to French in the trust. The
plaintiff asked a decree declaring that the settlement and
occupancy of said land, at the date of survey, by qualified
preemnptors, excluded the same from the reservation for
school purposes; that, by reason of defendant's purchase of
the improvements and her own occupancy and improvements,
a right of entry attached thereto in her; that the refusal of
the local officers to allow her filing in 1885 was unlawful;
that the act of February 13, 1889, did not take away any of
her rights, but, if anything, released any claim the Territory
of Arizona might have to the land, and that, under the townsite laws referred to in said act, her rights as a settler were
and are superior to those of the inhabitants of Flagstaff, as to
the particular part of the section covered by her claim ; and
that the said patentee, as trustee for the said inhabitants, in
so far as the land claimed by the plaintiff is embraced in said
patent, should be decreed to be the trustee of the plaintiff,
and be required to deliver a deed f6r the same to the plaintiff.
The defendant demurred to the complaint on the general
ground that it failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action. This demurrer was sustained by the District
Court. The plaintiff elected to stand on her complaint, and a
final decree was entered dismissing the bill. The plaintiff
thereupon appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory,
where the judgment below was affirmed, from which decree
an appeal was taken and allowed to this court.
1J-. S. D. Luckete for appellant. Mr. Henry N. Copp was
on his brief.
.Y. Edward . Doe for appellees submitted on his brief.
Mr. Jusxcp SniRAs, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.

GONZALES v. FRENCH.
Opinion of the Court.

Section 1946 of the Revised Statutes enacted that sections
numbered sixteen and thirty-six in each township of the Territories of New Mexico, Utah, Colorado, Dakota, .Arizona,
Idaho, Montana and Wyoming should be reserved for the
purpose of being applied to schools in the several Territories
named, and in the States and Territories thereafter to be
erected out of the same. Section 2275 is as follows: "Where
settlements with a view to preemption have been made before
the survey of the lands in the field, which are found to have
been made on section sixteen or thirty-six, those sections shall
be subject to the preEmption claim of such settler; and if they,
or either of them, have been or. shall ba reserved or pledged
for the use of schools or colleges in the State or Territory
in which the lands lie, other lands of like quantity are
appropriated in lieu of such as may be patented by preemptors.

.

In 1878 a survey in the field was made of the township in
which the lands in dispute were situated, which survey, together with a plat of the same, was approved February 3,
1879. At the time of the survey McMillan and Farriner were
residing on and cultivating lands constituting a portion of section sixteen, and in 1883 Emma J. Gonzales, the plaintiff in
error, purchased from said occupants their improvements, took
possession of the land, and erected additional improvements
thereon.
February 13, 1889, 25 Stat. 668, c. 150, Congress enacted
the following law:
"A bill for the relief of the occupants of the town of Flagstaff, county of Yavapai, Territory of Arizona.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in, Congress assembled, That
the probate judge of Yavapai County, Territory of Arizona,
be, and he is hereby, authorized to enter, in trust for the
occupants and inhabitants of Flagstaff for townsite purposes,
the south half of section sixteen, township twenty-one north,
range seven east, Gila and Salt River meridian, in the Territory of Arizona, subject to the provisions of sections twentythree hundred and eighty-seven, twenty-three hundred and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

eighty-eight and twenty-three hundred and eighty-nine of
chapter eight of the Revised Statutes of the United States
relating to townsites.
"Sto. 2. That t/pon the passage of this act the Territory of
Arizona, through its proper officers, shall be, and hereby is,
authorized to select as indemnity to said land, and in full satisfaction thereof and for the purpose. stated in section nineteen
hundred and forty-six, one half section of public lands at any
office in said Territory, said selections to be made according to
legal subdivisions."
On January 17, 1889; E. W. French, as probate judge of
said county, in trust for the inhabitants of the town of Flagstaff, filed a declaratory statement for the entry of said south
half of said section sixteen, and on July .29, 1889, the plaintiff
in error appeared before the local land officers and filed a protest against the allowance of said entry by the said probate
judge. At the hearing before said local knd bfficers tile land
was awarded to the said probate .judge in trust for the inhabitants of Flagstaff, and the plaintiff, appealed successively to
the. Commissioner of the General Land Office and to the Seeretary of the Interior, by both of whom her right of entry
was denied; the land was awarded to said probate judge, and
subsequently a patent was issued to him in trust for the occupants and inhabitants of the said town of Flagstaff.
As the claim of the plaintiff in error to the land in question
was passed upon by the proper. local officers of the land department, and subsequently, upon appeal, by the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, and, upon a further appeal, by
the Secretary of the Interior, and as the result of the contest
was the granting of a patent to the probate judge of the
county of Yavapai as trustee of the inhabitants of the town
of Flagstaff, the plaintiff, to maintain her bill, must aver and
prove either that the land department erred in the construction of the law applicable to the case, or that fraud was practised upon its officers, or that they themselves were chargeable
with fraudulent practices. Johnson v. Towey, 13 Wall. 72;
Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; Steel v. Smelting Co., 106
U. S.447.

GONZALES v. FRENCH.
Opinion of the Court.

Recognizing this well-settled rule, the plaintiff contends that
the land department and the Supreme Court of Arizona erred
in failing to find, as matter of law, that the conceded settlement of Mc fillan and Farriner on the land in question, prior
to the survey in the field, and their occupancy of the same
with the intention of claiming said land under the preemption
law, excluded said land from the reservation for school purposes. In other words, the contention is that mere settlement
and cultivation upon any portion of sections sixteen and thirtysix before the same shall be surveyed exclude such portion
from the school grant, and Sherman v. Buick, 93 U. S. 209,
and .Xining Co. v. Con8olidated .Xining Co., 102 U. S. 167,
are cited to that effect.
But those were cases decided under the act of March 3,
1853, c. 145, 10 Stat. 244, under which the right of the State
of California to school lands arose, and it was held that, by
the express terms of the seventh section of that act, where
there was either a dwelling house or the cultivation of any
portion of the land, on which some one was residing and was
asserting claim to it, the title of the State did not vest, but the
alternative right to other land as indemnity did.
The language of the seventh section of that act, "Where
any settlement, by the erection of a dwelling house or the
cultivation of any portion of the land, shall be made upon
the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections before the same shall
be surveyed,
.
other land shall be selected by the
authorities of the State in lieu thereof," is widely different
from that of section 2275; "Where settlements, with a view
to preemption, have been made before the survey of the
lands in the field, which are found to have been made on
sections sixteen and thirty-six, those sections shall be subject
to the preemption claim of such settler, and . . . other
lands of like quantity are appropriated in lieu of such as may
be patented by preinptors." And Mr. Justice Miller, in delivering the opinion of the court in Mining Co. v. Consolidated .fining Co., 102 U. S.175, was careful to say that "the
qualifying incidents," prescribed in the act of 1853, "are not
the same required under the general pregmption law," but

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

are intended "to convey the idea of a settlement and a settler
according to the terms of the statute under consideration."
The claim of the plaintiff in error, therefore, to a right of
pregmption was fatally defective because her vendora and
predecesgors in title had failed to make or file an actual entry
in the proper land office. As they did not choose to assert
their rights by filing a declaratory statement, or by making an
entry as preimptioners, their mere possession did not prevent
the rights of the Territory from attaching to the school sections when the survey was made. Nor did the plaintiff in
error lawfully succeed to any possessory rights they may
have had, as against the United States, because such rights
were merely personal to the settler, and, under § 2263, Rev.
Stat., were not assignable to the plaintiff in error. She did
not herself, after taking possession, comply with the requisitions of the law.
Section 2265, Revised Statutes, provides that " every claimant
under the pre~iiptibn law for land not yet proclaimed for sale
is required to make known his claim in writing to the register
of the proper land office within three months from the time
of the settlement, giving the designation of the tract and the
time of settlement; otherwise his claim shall be forfeited and
the tract awarded to the next settler, in the order of time, on
the same tract of land, who has given such notice and otherwise complied with the conditions of the law"; and section
2266 provides that "in regard to settlements which are authorized upon unsurveyed lands, the preemption claimant shall be
in all cases required to file his declaratory statement within
three months from the date of the receipt at the district land
office of the approved plat of the township embracing such
preemption settlement"; and section 2267 provides that "all
claimants of preeimption rights, under the two preceding sections, shall, when no shorter time is prescribed by law, make
the proper proof and payment for the lands claimed within
thirty months after the date prescribed therein, respectively,
for filing their declaratory notice, has expired."
The bill discloses that the plaintiff in error first appeared
in the land office and proposed to file her declaratory state-

GONZALES v. FRENCH.
Opinion of the Court.

ment on April 2, 1885, more than six years after the filing of
the plat.
The register and receiver were, therefore, warranted in rejecting the claim of the plaintiff in error. And, at any rate,
as she did not appeal from their decision to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, she must be deemed to
have acquiesced therein, and is concluded thereby so long as
it remains unreversed. Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, 511.
The plaintiff in error took no further steps until July 20,
1889, when, as aiready stated, she ineffectually opposed the
claim of the probate judge in making his entry under the provisions of the act of February 13, 1889. The present bill was
not filed until October 2, 1891, and in the meantime, as appears by one of the pleas, the truth of which was admitted by
demurrer, the probate judge had, as trustee under the act,
conveyed many and large portions of the lands in controversy
to numerous inhabitants of the town of Flagstaff.
The Supreme Court of the Territory held that the land in
question was never divested of its character as school land
until the entry by the probate judge under the act of 1889.
and accor(ingly sustained the action of the ti-ial court in dismissing the plaintiff's complaint, and in this we see no error.
Whatever might have been the possessory rights of the
plaintiff in error as against other claimants under the ordinary
land laws, such rights could not avail against the right of
Congress to confer said lands upon other parties. ]Frisbiev.
Whtitney, 9 Wall. 187; Yosemite Valley case, 15. Wall. 77;
Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330. We cannot accede to the
argument on behalf of the plaintiff in-error that .the legal
effect of the act of February 13, 1889, was to leave the land
described therein open to controversy between to(wnsite, settlers and persons whd might have settled on the lands but
had'not complied with the requisites of the pre6mption. laws.
As was said in Shepley v. C'owan, supra, "In those cases,"
Prisbie v. Ihlitney and the Yosemite Valley case, the court
decided that a party, by mere settlement upon the public
lands, with an intention to obtain a title to the same under
the premnption laws, did not thereby acquire such a vested

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

interest in the premises as to deprive Congress of the power
to dispose of the property; that, notwithstanding the settlement, Congress could reserve the lands for sale whenever they
might be needed for public - uses, as for arsenals, forti fications,
light houses, custom houses and other public purposes for
which real property is required by the government; that the
settlement, even when accompanied with an improvement of
the property, did not confer upon the settler any right in the
land as against the United States, or impair in any respect
the power of Congress to dispose of the land in any way it
might deem proper; that the power of regulation and disposition conferred upon Congress by the Constitution only ceased
when all the preliminary acts prescribed by law for the acquisition of the title, including the payment of the price of the
land, had been performed by the settler. When these prerequisites were complied with, the settler for the first time acquired a vested right in the premises of which he could not
be subsequently deprived. He was then entitled to a certificate of entry from the local land officers, and ultimately to a
patent of the United States. Until such payment and entry,
the acts of Congress gave to the settler only a privilege of
preemption in case the lands were offered for sale in the usual
manner; that is, the privilege to purchase them in that event
in preference to others."
In Buxton v. Traver, 130 U. S. 232, this language was used:
"A settlement upon the public lands in advance of the public
survevs is allowed to parties who in good faith intend, when
-the surveys are made and returned to the local land office,
to apply for their purchase. If, within a specified time after
the surveys, and the return of the township plat, the settler
takes certain steps, that is, files a declaratory statement,
and performs certain other acts prescribed by law,
he acquires for the first time a right of preemption to the
-

land.

.

.

. If those steps are from any cause not taken,

the proffer of the government has not been accepted, and a
title in the occupant is not even initiated."
Proper effect would not be .given, as we think, to the act
of February 13, 1889, by subjecting the patentee 'and his

McCLELLAN v. CHIPM&N.
Statement of the Case.

grantees to the claims of 'persons who have no vested rights
under the premption laws. Such claims would, in the present case, oust the townsite settlers from large portions of the
grant, and defeat the manifest purpose of Congress.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Arizona is
_Affirmed.

McCLELLAN v. CHIPMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.

TRADERS' BANK v. CHIPMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
Nos. 85, 36. Argued April 28, 29,1896. - Decided November 30, 1S96.

The provisions of §§ 96 and 98 of c. 157 of the Public Statutes of Massachusetts, invalidating preferences made by insolvent debtors and assignments or transfers made in contemplation of insolvency, do not conflict
with the provisions contained in Rev. Stat. §§ 5136 and 5137, relating to

national banks and to mortgages of real estate made to them in good
faith by way of security for debts previously contracted, and are valid
when applied to claims of such banks against insolvent debtors.
National Bank 'v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353, affirmed to the point that it
is only when a state law incapacitates a national bank from discharging
its duties to the government that it becomes unconstitutional: and Davis
v. Elmira 8avings Bank, 161 U. S. 275, affirmed to the point that national
banks are instrumentalities of the Federal government, created for a
public purpose, and as such necessarily subject to the paramount authority of the United States: and the two distinct propositions held to be
harmonious.
THE Traders' National Bank, a corporation organized under
the banking laws of the United States, carried on its business
in the city of Boston. The firm of Dudley Hall & Company,
composed of Dudley Hall and Dudley C. Hall, were likewise
engaged in business in Boston, and were customers of the
bank, having a deposit account therein. By an understanding between the bank and the firm, made to induce thea latter

