COUGIHRAN v. BIGELOW.
Statement of the Case.

This case is also unlike that of a factor who, by reason of
advances upon goods in his physical possession, has acquired
a quasi ownership in such goods, and who,'to the extent of
such advances, is entitled as special owner to sell the goods
in his possession. United States v. Tillalonga, 23 Wall. 35.
Of course the construction which we give to the term "legal
owner" or "owners " in the act of 1891, is limited to the precise
question arising on this record, which is simply whether a
mortgagee can properly be said to be embraced within the
terms of the act of 1891 giving a particular sum to the legal
owner or owners for lands sold by the government under the direct tax act of 1861. In determining, therefore, as we do, that
the mortgage creditor is not embraced in the provisions of
the act, we are not to be understood as expressing an opinion
upon what construction might be justified under other facts
and circumstances and for other purposes.
The judgment of the Court of Claims, disallowing the claim
of the plaintiffs, having construed the act of 1891 in accordance with the foregoing views, was right, and is therefore
Affirmed.

COUGIHRAN v. BIGELOW
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TUE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 53. Argued and gubmitted May 7, 18)6. -Decided

November 30, 1896.

The granting, by a trial court, of a nonsuit for want of sufficient evidei e
to warrant a verdict for the plaintiff is no infringement of the cbnstitutional right of trial by jury.
A surety on a bond, conditioned f6r the faithful performance by the principal obligor of his agreement to convey land to -the obligee on a day
named on receiving the agreed price, is released from his liability if the
vendee fails to perform the precedent act of payment at the time provided In the contract, and if the vendor, having then a right to rescind
and declare a forfeiture in consequence, waives that right.

EUGENE W. Coughran and Nathan H. Cottrell filed their
amended complaint in the district court of the first judicial
district of the Territory of Utah on December 15, 1891,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

against Henry C. Bigelow and H. P. Henderson, showing that
on April 26, 1890, E. A. Reed and H. H. Henderson, as principals, and the defendants as sureties, executed and delivered
to the plaintiffs a bond conditioned for the performance of a
contract on the part of the said principals to convey to'the
plaintiffs an interest in certain lands situate in Weber County,
in.the said Territory; alleging that the said principals.had
failed to perform the contract, and seeking, on account of such
alleged breach of the condition of the bond, to recover the
amount of the penalty thereof from the defendants.
The bond was as follows:
"Know all men by these presents that we, E. A. Reed and
H. H. Henderson, principals, and H..Bigelow and H. P. Henderson, as sureties, all of the county of Weber, Territory of
Utah, are held and firmly bound unto Eugene W. Coughran
and Nathan H, Cottrell, of Sioux Falls, South Dakota, in the
sum of five thousand dollars, lawful money of the United
States, to be paid to the said Eugene W. Coughran and 1Nathan
H. Cottrell, their executors, administrators or assigns, for
which payment, well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves,
we and each- of ourselves, executors and administrators jointly
and severally firnily by these presents.
"Sealed with our seals, and dated this 26th day of April,
.A.D. 1890.

"The condition of the above obligation is such that the
above-bounden E. A. Reed and H. H. Henderson, on or before
the first day of October next, or in case of their death before
that time, if the heirs of the said E. A. Reed and H. H. Henderson, within three months after their decease, shall and do
upon the reasonable request of the said Eugene W. Coughran
and Nathan H. Cottrell, their heirs or assigns, make, execute
and deliver, or cause so to be made, a good and sufficient warranty deed, in fee simple, free from all incumbrance and with
the usual covenants of warranty, of the following-described
premises, to wit: An undivided one tenth of section fifteen (15),
in to~vnship six (6), north of range one (1) west, Salt Lake
meridian, Weber County, Utah Territory; except a part of the

COUGHRAN v. BIGELOW.
Statement of the Case.

southwest quarter section of said section 15, described as follows: Beginning at the southeast corner of said southwest
quarter sectiou, and running thence west 2G rods; thence
north 30 rods; thence west 20 rods; thence north 40 rods;
thence east 40 rods; thence south 70 rods to the place of beginning; provided the said Eugene W. Coughran and Nathan
1-. Cottrell comply with their part of the contract this day
made and delivered to them by the said E. A. Reed and
H. H. Henderson, and a copy of which is hereto attached,
then the above obligation to be void; else to remain in full
force and virtue.
"H. H. HENDERSON.
"E. A. REED.
"H. 0. BIGELOW.

"H. P. HENDERSON.
Signed in presence of"GEo. H. BURriTT."
Attached to the bond was the instrument following:
" OGDEN, April 26, 1890.
"Received of Eugene W. Coughran and Nathan H. Cottrell
thirty-three hundred and thirty-three dollars as part purchase
price of an undivided one tenth part of the following-described
lands, viz.: Section fifteen (15), in township six (6), north of
range one (1) west, Salt Lake meridian, Weber County, Utah
Territory, except a part of the southwest quarter section of said
said section fifteen, described as follows: Beginning at the
southeast corner of said southwest quarter section, and running
thence west twenty rods, thence north thirty rods, thence west
twenty rods, thence north forty rods, thence east forty rods,
thence south seventy rods, to the place of begiinning.
"The full purchase price being ten thousand dollars, to be
paid as follows: $3334 on October 1, 1890, and .$3333 on
April 1, 1891, with interest at eight per cent per annum on
deferred payment from October 1, 1890. But in case said
land is sold before October 1, 1890, then the last two payments are to bear interest from April 1, 1890, to the date of
sale. And in case any payments are not made as above

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

provided the amount paid herein is forfeited, and this receipt
is from that time void and inoperative, and when the payment [sic] are made as above provided the land to be conveyed to said Eugene W. Coughran and Nathan H. Cottrell,
or their assigns, with good title free from incumbrances.
"H. H. HENDERSON.
"E. A. REED.
"'ILLIE G. REED.

"Signed in presence of"G
(Eo. H. BuRGrrr."
The plaintiffs .alleged that they-made the first-and second
payments provided for in the contract in accordance with
the terms thereof; that on or about November 1, 1890, upon
the request of the plaintiffs, E. A. Reed and H. H. Henderson tendered them a deed for the said interest in the lands;
that thereupgn they examined the title to the property, found
the same to be defective and, because of the defects therein,
refused to accept the deed; and that as to these transactions
between the parties to the contract the defendants had due
notice. It was alleged that Reed and H. H. Henderson had
never been able, and were not able at the time the complaint
was filed to convey a fee simple and unincumbered title to
the one tenth interest in the lands described in the bond and
contract; that for a long time prior to April 12, 1890, the
property was owned in fee simple by the Union Pacific
Railway Company, which company, by deed of that date,
conveyed all of the east half and the north half of the northwest quarter of said section fifteen to one James Taylor; that
in and by that deed the company reserved to itself "the .exclusive right to prospect for coal and other minerals within
and underlying said land, and mine and remove the same if
found," and also "the right of way over and across said lands,
and space necessary for the condtict of said business thereon,
without charge or liability therefor"; that the title of Reed
and H. H. Henderson to the said interest was obtained by
deed to them from Taylor, dated October 17, 1890, iWbich
deed was made subject to the said mining rights reserved to

COUGHRAN v. BIGELOW.
Statement of the Case.

the company; that the lands were situated in a mining district, and that the said reservation rendered the title to the
lands doubtful and unmarketable, and greatly diminished
their probable value; that, furthermore, the property was
subject to a mortgage. The plaintiffs allege that they had
performed all the conditions of the contract upon their part,
except to pay the sum of $3333 on April 1, 1891, and that
neither Reed and H. H. Henderson, nor the defendants, had
ever tendered to them any other or different title than the
alleged defective one aforesaid, or had ever refunded to them
the amount of the first two payments. They asked for judgment in the sum of $5000.
The defendants, on January 8, 1892, filed separate answers,
wherein they denied that the said second payment made by
the plaintiffs was made in accordance with the provisions of
the contract, or that the title to the property was defective,
or that the refusal of the plaintiffs to accept the deed tendered
to them by Reed and H. H. Henderson was on account of any
defect in the title, or that the lands were mineral lands, or
that a reservation of mineral rights therein would be an incumbrance upon the title thereto. Further answering, they
alleged that shortly before the execution of the said bond the
plaintiffs had entered into negotiations with Reed and H. H.
Henderson for the purchase of the said interest in the lands;
that at that time Reed and H. H. Henderson held the said
interest under executory contracts for the conveyance thereof
to them; that Reed and H. H. Henderson fully informed the
plaintiffs of the character of their title; that the said contract
was then entered into, and the plaintiffs, in receiving the same,
required some guarantee that Reed and H. H. Henderson
would perfect their rights under the said executory contracts
by April 1, 1891, that being the agreed time, as alleged, at
which the plaintiffs would be entitled to a conveyance from
Reed and H. H. Henderson; that thereupon it was agreed
and understood that the defendants, as sureties, would execute
a bond in the sum of $5000, with Reed and H. H. Henderson
as principals, guaranteeing that on or before April 1, 1891,
Reed and H. H. Henderson should execute and deliver a deed
voL cxxv-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

as stipulated in the contract, provided that the plaintiffs should
perform all the conditions of the contract upon their part;
that the bond was prepared and attached to the contract, and
was signed by. Reed and H. H. Henderson and by the defendants; that by inadvertence in the preparation of the bond
the time therein stated for the delivery of the deed 'was
October 1, 1890, instead of April 1, 1891; that, therefore, the
bond was not in accordance with the agreement and understanding of the parties thereto.
The case came on for trial in the said court November 29,
1892, before the court and a jury. Thereupon the plaintiffs
introduced evidence tending to show, among other things,
that the said' lauds were, on November 1, 1890, subject to a
mortgage for the sum of $9000, recorded July 2, 1889; that
on October 17, 1890, the defendants placed in the custody of
the Ogden State Bank a deed bearing that date, whereby Reed
and H. H. Henderson cbnveyed to the plaintiffs the said interest in the said lands, subject to one tenth of the said mortgage; two notes, unsigned, dated October 17, 1890, payable to
Reed and H. H. Henders6n on April 1, 1890, for the aggregate
amount of $2433, being the amount of the last payment under
the said contract, less $900, or one tenth of the amount of the
said mortgage; and an unexecuted mortgage of the interest in
the lands described- in the contract, in favor of Reed- and H.
H. Henderson; that the bank was instructed to deliver the deed
to the plaintiffs when they should have executed the. notes and
the last-mentiohed mortgage,.and should have returned them
to thd bank to be delivered by it to Reed and H. H. Henderson; that subsequently to October 8, 1890, and not later than
th6 12th of that month the bank received the sum of $3334
from the plaintiffs, with instructions to pay the same to Reed
and H. H. Henderson, and did pay the same to them some time
within the month following. It was further shown that Reed
and H. H. Henderson derived their title to the property from
James Taylor, by deed dated October 17, 1890; that Taylor's
title was obtained from the said railway company; and that the
deed from the company to Taylor as well as the deed of Taylor
to Reed and II. H. Henderson contained the reservation of mineral rights as set out in the complaint.

COUGHRAN v. BIGELOW.
Opinion of the Court.

After all the evidence on behalf of the plaintiffs had been
introduced, the defendants moved for a nonsuit. The motion
was granted, and judgment was entered in favor of the defendants. The plaintiffs then appealed to the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Utah, where the.judgment of the said
District Court was affirmed. Coughran v. Bigelow, 9 Utah,
260. Thereupon they sued out a writ of error from this court.
.Mr. C. TV Bennett for plaintiffs in error submitted on his
brief.
A i. Arthitr Brown for defendants in error.
MU.

JUSTIcE

SHMAS, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The ruling of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah
in affirming the action of the trial court ordering a nonsuit of
plaintiffs is assignei as error. It was held by this court in
Elmore v. Grymes, (1 Pet. 469,) that a Circuit Court of the
United States had no authority to order a peremptory nonsuit
against the will of the plaintiff. This case has been followed
in repeated decisions. Crane v. [oiris,6 Pet. 598; Castle v.
Bullard, 23 How. 172.
The foundation for those rulings was not in the constitutional
right of a trial by jury, for it has long been the doctrine of
this court that in every case, before the evidence is left to the
jury, there is a preliminary question for the judge, not whether
there is literally no evidence, but whether there is any upon
which a jury can properly proceed to find a verdict for the
party producing it upon whom the onus of proof is imposed,
and that, if the evidence be not sufficient to warrant a recovery,
it is the duty of the court to instruct the jury accordingly,
and, if the jury disregard such instruction, to set aside the
verdict. Parks v. Ross, 11 How. 362; Schtuchardt v. Allens,
I Wall. 359; Pleasantsv. Fant,22 Wall. 116, 120. And, in the
case of Oscanyon v. Arms Co., 103 U. S. 264, it was said by
Mr. Justice Field, in delivering the opinion of the court, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the difference between a motion to order a nonsuit of the
plaintiff and a motion to direct a verdict for the defendatit
is "1rather a matfer of form than of substance."
-That the cases above cited, which held that the Circuit
Court of the United States had no authority to order peremptory nonsuits, were based, not upon a constitutional right of a
plaintiff to have the verdict of a jury, even if his evidence
was insufficient to sustain his case, but upon the absence of
authority, whether statutory or by a rule promulgated by this
court, is shown by the recent case of Central Transportatiori
Co.v. Pullma''s Car Co., 139 U. S. 24, 38, where it was held
that, since the act of Congress of June 1,1872, c. 255, ยง 5, 17
Stat. 197, reenacted in ยง 914 of the Revised Statutes, courts
of the United States are required to conform, as near as may
be, in questions of "practice, pleadings and forms and modes of
proceeding" to those existing in the courts of the State within
which the trial is had, and a judgment of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,
ordering a peremptory nonsuit, in pursuance of a state statute,
was upheld. It is the clear implication of this case that
granting a nonsuit for want of sufficient evidence is not -an
infringement of the constitutional right of trial by jury.
As there was a statute of the Territory of Utah authorizing
courts to enter judgments .of peremptory nonsuit, there was
no error in the trial court in granting the motion for anonsuit
in the present case, nor in the judgment of-the Supreme Court
affirming such -ruling; if, indeed, upon the entird evidence
adduced by the plaintiffs enough did not appear to sustain a
verdict.
We are thus-broughtto the question whether the trial court
was mistaken in its view of the plaintiffs' evidence.
The facts of the case are somewhat peculiar. The suit is
against sureties on a bond, conditioned for the performance by
the principals of the terms of a contract for the sale of land to
the parties plaintiff. The chief difficulty arises from the fact
that there is a discrepancy between the terms of the contract,
as they appear in the written instrument itself, and as they
are described or narrated in the bond.

COUGHRAN v. BIGELOW.
Opinion of the Court.

The contract is clear and unambiguous. It is dated April
26, 1890. After acknowledging receipt of thirty-three hundred
and thirty-three dollars as part purchase price of an undivided
one tenth part of a certain tract of land, describing it, it proceeds as follows: "The full purchase price being ten thousand
dollars, to be paid as follows, $3334 on October 1, 1890, and
$3333 on April 1, 1891, with interest at eight per cent per
annum on deferred payment from October 1, 1890. But in
case said land is sold before October 1, 1890, then l he last two
payments are to bear interest from April 1, 1890, to the date
of sale. And in case any payments are not made as above
provided, the amount paid herein is forfeited, and this receipt
is from that time void and inoperative, and when the payments are made as above provided the land to be conveyed to
said Eugene W. Coughran and Nathan H. Cottrell, or their
assigns, with good title free from incumbrances."
The obvious meaning of these provisions is that if the sum
of $3334: is paid on October 1, 1890, and the sum of $3333 is
paid on April 1, 1891, with interest from October 1, 1890,
then it shall be the duty of the vendors to convey the property
to the vendees or their assigns with a good title free from incumbrances; but that if said deferred payments are not made,
as provided for, then the amount previously paid shall be forfeited and the contract become void.
The bond, bearing even date with the contract, contains the
following language: "The condition of the above obligation
is such that the above bounden E. A. Reed and H. H. Henderson, on or before the first day of October next, or in the case
of their death before that time, if the heirs of the said E. A.
Reed and H. H. Henderson, within three months after their
decease, shall and do upon the reasonable request of the'said
Eugene W. Coughran and Nathan H. Cottrell, their heirs or
assigns, make, execute and deliver, or cause so to be made, a
good and sufficient warranty deed, in fee simple, free from all
incumbrance, and with the usual covenants of warranty, of
the following-described premises,. ..
provided the said
Eugene W. Coughran and Nathan H. Cottrell comply with
their part of the contract this day made and delivered to them

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

by the said E. A. Reed and H. H. Henderson, and a copy of
which is hereto attached, then the above obligation to be void;
else to remain in full force and virtue."
It will be observed that, by the terms of the contract, the
deed of conveyance was not to be made until the purchase
money had been paid in full, but the recital in the bond calls
for the making and delivery of the deed on or before the first
day of October, 1890.
The solution of the difficulty thus created will be found by
reading the bond in the light of the contract, to secure the
performance of which was the purpose of the bond. That
contract provided, indeed, that the vendors should execute and
deliver a proper deed, but also provided that the title should
not pass until the deferred payments wer&made. To construe
the bond as compelling a conveyance before such payments
were made would deprive the vendors of the security given
them by retaining the title and also of their stipulated right
to forfeit the cash payment and rescind the sale, if the payments were not made as provided in the contract.
The obligatory portion of the bond was expressly made
dependent on the proviso that Coughran and Cottrell should
comply with their portion of the contract that day made and
a copy of which was attached, one of the terms of which was
that the sum of $3334 should be paid on October 1, 1890.
This payment was not so made on that day. The acceptance
by the vendors of the payment subsequently made, on or about
October 12, was, of course, a waiver by them of their right to
rescind and declare a forfeiture, but such waiver did not bind
the sureties, who were relieved from liability by the failure of
the vendees to perform the precedent act of payment at the
time provided in the contract. Bank of Colutmbia v. Ilagner,
I Pet. 455; Helsey v. Crowther, 162 U. S. 404.
The contention on the part of the plaintiffs in error ttlat
the alleged inability of the vendors to make a conveyance of
the character called for by the contract relieved them from the
duty of payment, is only true so far as they might choose to
make such inability the ground of a right to rescind. They
could not elect to abide by and enforce the contract, except

CAKE v. MOHUN.
Statement of the Case.

upon performance or tender of payment on their part.

Telf-

ver v. Riess, 162 U. S. 171; Yelsey v. Crowther, 162 U. S.404.

These were the views that prevailed in the Supreme Court of
the Territory, and its judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.

CAKE v. MOHUN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 123. Argued November 2, 1696.- Decided November 30, 196,
After the death of the receiver, this case was properly revived in the name
of his executrix.
While, as a general rule, a receiver has no authority, as such, to continue
and carry on the business of which he is appointed receiver, there is a
discretion on the part of the court to permit this to be done when the
Interests of the parties seem to require it; and in such case his power
to incur obligations for supplies and materials incidental to tile business
follows as a necessary incident to the office.
A purchaser of property at a receiver's sale who, under order of court, in
order to get possession of the property gives an undertaking, with surety,
conditioned for the payment to the receiver of such amounts as should be
found due him on account of expenditures or indebtedness as well as compensation, thereby becomes liable for such expenditures and indebtedness.
In determining what allowances shall be made to a receiver and to his
counsel this court gives great consideration to the concurring views of
the auditor or master and the courts below; and it is not disposed to
disturb the allowance in this case, although, if the question were an
original one it might have fixed the receiver's compensation at a less
amount.

THIS was an appeal taken by Horace Al. Cake and the
administrators of William B. Moses, surety upon a certain
undertaking of his to pay Francis B. M[ohun, appellee's intestate, such sums as the court should find to be due the latter
as receiver of the furniture, equipments and other personal
property of the hotel known as La Normandie, in the city of
Washington.
The original bill was filed April 23, 1891, by the appellant
Cake to foreclose a chattel mortgage or deed of trust executed

