OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for Plaintiff in.
Error.

the transaction in February, 1890, by which the Prairie Bank
acquired its alleged lien on the fund possessed the effect contended for by the bank, it would necessarily operate to alter
and impair rights acquired by the surety under the original
contract.
Sundberg & Company could not transfer to the bank any
greater rights in the fund than they themselves possessed.
Their rights were subordinate to those of the United States
and the sureties. Depending, therefore, solely upon rights
claimed to have been derived in February,.1890, by express
contract with Sundberg & Company, it necessarily results
that the equity, if any, acquired by the Prairie Bank in the
ten per cent fund then in existence and thereafter to arise was
subordinate to the equity -which had, in May, 1888, arisen in
favor of the surety Hitchcock. It follows that the Court of
Claims did not err in holding that Hitchcock was entitled to
the fund, and its judgment is therefore affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

DRAPER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 496. Submitted October 23, 1896. -Decided

November 80, 1896.

When the enabling act, admitting a State into the Union, contains no exclusion of jurisdiction as to crimes committed on an Indian reservation by
others than Indians or against Indians, the state courts are vested with
jurisdiction to try and punish such crimes. United States v. McBratney,
104 U. S. 621, to this point affirmed and followed.
The provision in the enabling act of Montana that the "Indian lands shall
remain under the absolute jurisdiction and control of the Congress of the
United States" does not affect the application of this general rule to the
State of Montana.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr.J.ITV. Strevell, for plaintiff in error,submitted on his brief.

.Mr. S. A. Balliet and Mr. Lewi8 Penwell were on the brief.

DRAPER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. A88i8tant Attorney General _Dickin8o
in error.

for defendants

M .. JusTIcE WmTvr delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error was indicted, tried, convicted and sentenced to death for the crime of murder, alleged to have been
committed on the Crow Indian reservation. He moved to
arrest the judgment on the ground that the court had no
jurisdiction to try an offence committed on the Crow reservation by other than an Indian, as such crime was exclusively
cognizable By the proper court of the State of Montana. The
refusal to arrest the judgment on account of this asserted want
of jurisdiction is one of the errors pressed upon our attention,
and our opinion on the subject will render it unnecessary to
consider the other assignments.
The indictment does not state, nor does the record affirmatively show, that the accused and the deceased were negroes,
but that fact is conceded both by counsel for the prisoner and
the government, and upon such concession, the case as to jurisdiction was determined below, and is here presented for consideration. Irrespective, however, of the admission of counsel
as to the race to which the accused and the deceased belonged,
the question of jurisdiction arises on the record, since if, as
matter of law, the reservation was not within the sole and
exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, as the indictment
fails to charge that the crime was committed by an Indian, it
necessarily follows that if the court had jurisdiction only to
punish such a crime the want of jurisdiction appears upon the
face of the record. It is clear that if the accused was an
Indian the court below had jurisdiction under the act of
March 3, 1885, which, among other things, authorizes.the
punishment of any Indian committing the offence of murder
within the boundaries of any State of the United States and
within the limits of 'any Indian reservation, according to the
laws and before the tribunals of the United States. United
State8 v. Eagama, 118 U. S. 375. The assertion of jurisdiction in the courts of the United States over the crime of murVOL. cLxiv-16

OCTOBER TERIY, 1896.
Opinion of tihe Court.

der' perpetrated by one not an Indian against one not an Indian is based on the fact that the offence was committed on an
Indian reservation. The contention as to want of jurisdiction
rests upon the proposition that the Indian reservation being
within the State, the courts of the State had alone cognizance
of crimes therein done by other than Indians. To determine
these conflicting contentions requires a brief examination of
the legislation organizing the Territory of Montana and which
provided for the admission of that State into the Union.
The Territory of Montana was organized by the act of
May 26, 1861, c. 95, 13 Stat. 85. Subsequently, in 1868, the
Crow Indian reservation was created, 15 Stat. 649, the land
of which it was cbmposed being wholly situated within the
geographical boundaries of the Territory of Montana. The
treaty creating this reservation contained no stipulation restricting the power of the United States to include the land,
embraced within the reservation, in any State or Territory
then existing or which might thereafter be created. The law
to enable Montana and other States to be admitted into the
Union was passed February 22, 18$9, 25 Stat. 676, c. 180.
This act embraced the usual provisions for a convention to
frame a constitution, for the adoption of an ordinance directed
to contain certain specified agreements, and provided that,
upon the compliance with the ordained requirements, and the
proclamation'of the President so announcing, the State should
be admitted on an equal footing with the original States.
The question then is, has the State of Montana jurisdiction
over offences committed within its geographical boundaries
by persons not Indians or against Indians, or did the enabling
act deprive the courts of the State of such jurisdiction of all
offences committed on the Crow Indian reservation, thereby
divesting the State pro tanto of equal authority and jurisdiction over its citizens, usually enjoyed by the other States of
the Union ?
In United States v. 7MoBratney, 104: U. S.621, this court
held that where a State was admitted into the Union, and the
enabling act contained no exclusion of jurisdiction as to
crimes committed on an Indian reservation by others than

DRAPER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Indians or against Indians, the state courts were vested with
jurisdiction to try and punish such crimes. The court there
said:
"The act of March 3, 1875," c. 139 (the enabling act, which
provided for the admission of the State of Colorado), " necessarily repeals the provisions of any prior statute, or of any
existing treaty, which are clearly inconsistent therewith.
The Cherokee Tobacco, 11 Wall. 616. Whenever, upon the
admission of a State into the Union, Congress has intended to
except out of it an Indian reservation, or the sole and exclusive
jurisdiction over that reservation, it has done so by express
words. Th'e Kansas Indians, 5 Wall. 737; United States v.
lWard, supra. The State of Colorado, by its admission into
the Union by Congress, upon an equal footing with the original States in all respects whatever, without any such exception as had been made in the treaty with the Ute Indians and
in the act establishing a territorial government, has acquired
criminal jurisdiction over its own citizens and other white
persons throughout the whole of the territory within its
limits, including the Ute reservation, and that reservation is
no longer within the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States. The courts of the United States have, therefore, no jurisdiction to punish crimes within that reservation,
unless so far as may be necessary to carry- out such provisions
of the treaty with the Ute Indians as remain in force. But
that treaty c9ntains no stipulation for the punishment of
offences committed by white men against white men."
United States v. 1lcBratney is therefore decisive of the
question now before us, unless the enabling act of the State
of Montana contained provisions taking that State out of the
general rule and depriving its courts of the jurisdiction to
them belonging and resulting from the very nature of the
equality conferred on the State by virtue of its admission into
the Union. Such exception is sought here to be evolved from
certain provisions of the enabling act of Montana which were
ratified by an ordinance of the convention which framed the
constitution of that State. The provision relied on is as
follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

"Second. That the people inhabiting the said proposed
State of Montana do agree and declare that they forever disclaim all right and title to the unapliropriated public lands
lying within the boundaries thereof, and to all lands lying
within said limits owned or held by any Indian or Indian
tribes, and that until the title thereto shall have been extinguished by the United States the same shall be and remain
subject to the disposition of the United States, and said
Indian lands shall remain under the absolute jurisdiction and
control of the Congress of the United States; that the lands
belonging to citizens of the United States residing without
the said State of Montana shall never be taxed at a higher
rate than the lands belonging to residents thereof ; that no
taxes shall be imposed by the said State of Montana on lands
or property therein belonging to or which may hereafter be
purchased by the United States ot reserved for its use. But
nothing herein or in the ordinances herein provided for shall
preclude the said State of Montana from taxing as other lands
are taxed any lands owned or held by any Indian who has
severe d his tribal relations and has obtained from the United
States, or from any person, a title thereto by patent or other
grant, save and except such lands as have been or may be
granted to any Indian or Indians under any act of Congress
containing a provisioh exempting the lands thus granted from
taxation, but said last-named lands shall be exempt from taxation by said State of Montana so long and to such extent as
such act of Congress may prescribe."
The words in the foregoing provisions upon which the
argument is based are the following: "And said Indian lands
shall remain under the absolute jurisdiction and control of the
Congress of the United BStates." This language has been considered in several cases in the courts of the United States with
somewhat contradictory results. United States v. Ewing, 47
Fed. Rep. 809 ; United States v. Partello,48 Fed. Rep; 670;
Ti'uscott v. Hurlb'ut Land & Cattle Co., 73 Fed. Rep. 60.
As equality of statehood is the rule, the words, relied on
here to create an exception cannot be construed as doing so,
if, by any reasonable meaning, they can be otherwise treated.

DRAPER v, UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The mere reservation of jurisdiction and control by the United
States of "Indian lands" does not of necessity signify a retention of jurisdiction in the United States to punish all offences
committed on such lands by others than Indians or against
Indians. It is argued that as the first portion of the section
in which the language relied on is found, disclaims all right
and title of the State to "the unappropriated public lands
lying within the boundaries thereof and of all lands lying
within said limits, owned or held by an Indian or Indian
tribes, and until the title thereof shall be extinguished by the
United States, the same shall be and remain subject to the
disposition 'f the United States," therefore the subsequent
words "and said lands shall remain under the absolute jurisdiction and control of the United States," are rendered purely
tautological and meaningless, unless they signify something
more than the reservation of authority of the United States
over the lands themselves and the title thereto. This argument overlooks not only the particular action of Congress as
to the Crow reservation, but also the state of the general law
of the United States, as to Indian reservations, at the time of
the admission of Montana into the Union.
On A'pril 11, 1882, c. 74, 22 Stat. 42, Congress confirmed
an agreement submitted by the Orow Indians for the sale of
a portion of their reservation, and for the survey and division
in severalty of the agricultural lands remaining in the reservation as thus reduced. The act, however, provided that the
title to be acquired by the allottees was not to be subject to
alienation, lease or incumbrance, either by voluntary conveyance of the grantee or his heirs, or by the judgment, order or
decree of any court, but should remain inalienable and be not
subject to taxation for the period of twenty-five years, and,
until such time thereafter as the President might see fit to
remove the restriction:
The policy thus applied to the Crow reservation subsequently
became the general method adopted by Congress to deal with
Indian reservations. In February, 1887, by a general law,
Congress provided "for the allotment of lands in severalty to
Indians on ihe various reservations, and to extend the protec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the laws of the United States and the Territories over
the Indians, and for other purposes." Act of February 8,
1887, c..119, 24 Stat. 388. The act in question contemplated
the gradual extinction of Indian reservations and Indian titles
by the all6tment of such lands to the Indians in severalty.
It provided in section 6, "that upon the completion of said
allotments and the patenting of said lands to said allottees,
each and every member of the respective bands or tribes of
Indians to whom allotments have been made shall have the
benefit of and be subject to the laws, both civil and criminal,
of the State or Territory in which they may reside." But the
act at the same time put limitations and restrictions upon the
power of the Indians to sell, encumber or deal with the lands
thus to be allotted. Moreover, by section 4 of the act of 1887,
Indians not residing on a reservation, or for whose tribe no
reservation had been provided, were empowered to enter a
designated quantity of unappropriated public land and to have
patents therefor, the right, however, of such Indian to sell or
encumber being regulated by provisions like those controlling
allotments in severalty of lands comprised within a reservation. From these enactments it clearly follows that at the
time of the admission of Montana into the Union, and the use
in the enabling act of the restrictive words here relied upon,
there was a condition of things provided for by the statute
law of the United States, and contemplated to arise where
the reservation of jurisdiction and control over the Indian lands
would become essential to prevent any implication of the power
of the State to frustrate the limitations imposed by the laws of
the United States upon the title of lands once in an Indian
reservation, but which had become extinct by allotment in
severalty, and in which contingency the Indians themselves
would have passed under the authority and control of the
State.
It is also equally clear that the reservation of jurisdiction
and control over the Indian lands was relevant to and is
explicable by the provisions of section 4 of the act of 1887,
which allowed non-reservation Indians to enter on and take
patents for a certain designated quantity of public land. InNx

DRAPER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

deed, if the meaning of the words which reserved jurisdiction
and control over Indian lands contended for by the defendant
in error.were true, then the State of Montana would not only
be deprived of authority to punish offences committed by her
own citizens upon Indian reservations, but would also have
like want of authority for all offences committed by her own
citizens upon such portion of the public domain, within her
borders, as may have been appropriated and patented to an
Indian under the terms of the act of 1887. The conclusion
to which the contention leads is an efficient demonstration of
its fallacy. It follows that a proper appreciation of the legislation as to Indians existing at the time of the passage of the
enabling act by which the State of Montana was admitted
into the Union adequately explains the use of the words relied
upon and demonstrates that in reserving to the United States
jurisdiction and control over Indian lands it was not intended
to deprive that State of power to punish"for crimes committed
on a reservation or Indian lands by other than Indians or
against Indians, and that a consideration of the whole subject
fully answers the argument that the language used in the
enabling act becomes meaningless unless it be construed as
depriving the State of authority to it belonging in virtue of
its existence as an equal member of the Union. Of. course
the construction of the enabling act here given is confined
exclusively to the issue before us, and therefore involves in
no way any of the questions fully reserved in United States
v. McBe'atney, and which are also intended to be fully reserved
here.
Our conclusion is that the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Montana had no jurisdiction of the indictmeat, but, "according to the practice heretorore adopted in
like cases, should deliver up the prisoner to the authorities
of the State of Montana to be dealt with according to law."
Un ited States v. McBratney, supra,and authorities there cited.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded for proceedings in conformity to this opinion.

