CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO. v. WRIGHT.
Syllabus.

mining claim until the patent had been issued, following in
this particular King v. Thorna.9, 6 Montana, 409; and, second,
that the matters alleged as an estoppel having taken place
before the time the plaintiffs made their application for a
patent, and notice of such application having been given, that
all adverse claimants were given an opportunity of contesting
the applicant's right to a patent, and that the patent having
been issued, it was too late to base a defence upon facts existing
prior thereto, citing in support of its position a prior ruling of
the court in Talbott v. Zing, 6 Montana, 76.
Neither of these defences presents a. Federal question. Defendants asserted no right under a Federal statute; made no
claim under any Federal patent; claimed solely under a statute of limitations, which the highest court of the State declared
did not protect them, and certain matters of alleged estoppel
in pai8, which the court held to constitute no defence.
The writ of error must, therefore, be
Di missed.

CENTRAL RAILROAD AND BANKING COMPANY
v. WRIGHT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 300. Argued October 22, 1896. - Decided November 80, 1896.

Section eighteen of the act of the legislature of Georgia of December 14,
1835, providing that no municipal or other corporation shall have power to
tax the stock of the Central Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia,
but may tax any property, real or personal, of said company within the
jurisdiction of said corporation in the ratio of taxation of like property,
When construed in connection with other legislation on that subject, permits municipal corporations to tax such property within their respective
jurisdictions in the ratio of taxation of like property.
While, in the absence of any words showing a different intent, an exemption
of the stock or capital stock of a corporation may imply, and carry with
it, an exemption of the property in which such stock. is invested, yet, If
the legislature uses language at variance with such intention, the courts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.
which will never presume a purpose to exempt any property from its just
share of the public burdens, will construe any doubts which may arise as
to the proper interpretation of the charter against the exemption.

Tmis was an intervening petition filed by William A. Wright,
Comptroller General of the State of Georgia, praying that the
receivers of the Central Railroad and Banking Company,
appointed in a suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage to the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, be required to pay him
certain taxes said to be due by the corporation for the year
1891, upon its property in different counties and cities upon
the line of its road in the State of Georgia, which taxes were
claimed to be a"lien upon theproperty of the road.
The taxes were assessed in pursuance of certain acts of the
General Assembly, passed in 1889 and 1890, authorizing counties and cities to tax railroad property. The taxes were levied
upon the railroad and avpurtenances of that portion of the
Central Railroad between Savannah and Macon, and included
no other property of the company. The defendants claim the
taxes to be invalid, upon the ground that the railroad and its
appurtenances over that part of the line from Savannah to
Macon were subject oWly to a taxation of one half of one per
cent upon the net annual income of the road, and that the
acts of 1889 and 1890, in so far as they authorized the taxation
of its property by counties and other municipalities, impaired
the obligation of the original contract of the State contained
in its charter, and were, therefore, void.
The Circuit Court was of opinion that the taxes were properly levied, and made a decree for their payment by the receivers, and from that decree the corporation and its receivers
appealed to this court.
Mr. A. P. Lawton for appellants. Mr.Henry C. Cunningham and -Mr. Samuel B. Adams were on his brief.
r. T X. Terrell for appellee.
M.n. JusTicu Bnowx,'after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.

CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO. v. WRIGHT.

329

Opinion of the Court.

This case raises the question, frequently presented to this
court, of the power of a State to impose upon a corporation a
tax not provided for or contemplated, nor yet expressly forbidden, in its original charter.
The defendant corporation was chartered in 1833, Laws of
Georgia of 1833, 2416, under the name of the Central Railroad
and Canal Company, .' for the purpose of opening a canal or
railroad communication from the city of Savannah to the interior of the State." The seventh section declared that "the
said canal or railway, and the appurtenances of the same, shall
not be subjected to be taxed higher than an half per cent upon
its annual net income." On December 14, 1835, the General
Assembly phssed an amendatory act, Laws of 1835, 217, under
which the road was constructed, changing the name to the
Central Railroad and Banking Company, and, giving it certain
banking powers and privileges. The eighteenth section of
this act provided that "the said railroad, and the appurtenances of the same shall not be subjected to be taxed higher
than one half of one per centum upon its annual net income,
and no municipal or other corporation shall have power to tax
the stock of said company, but may tax any property, real or
personal, of the said company, within the jurisdiction of said
corporation in the ratio of taxation of like property."
No other act affecting the question at issue was passed
until 1889, when the General Assembly provided a general
system of taxation of railroad property in each of the
counties of the State through which the railroads ran, and
required the various companies to make annual returns to the
Comptroller General, under the oath of the president or chief
executive officer, and enacted that they should be subjected
to taxation in every county through which their roads might
pass. Other sections of the act provided how the amounts
should be assessed and paid, and the manner of issuing
execution in the event they were not paid.
By another act, approved Dec6mber 24, 1890, railroad companies were subjected to taxation upon their property located
in the different towns and cities of the State.
By reason of the fact that all of the property and effects of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the Central Railroad and Banking Company were in the
hands of receivers, appointed by the Circuit Court of the
United States, under certain bills filed to foreclose a mortgage
to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, the Comptroller
General was unable to collect such taxes by the ordinary
process of levy and sale, and therefore filed his petition
against such receivers, praying that they might be required
to pay him the taxes. Under the acts of 1889 and 1890 the
corporation made the returns required, and paid such taxes
as were assessed upon those parts of its property which were
admitted to be subject to taxation, but contended that, as to
its original line between Savannah and Macon, it could not be
taxed, either by the State or by its municipalities, at a greater
rate than one half of one per cent upon its net annual income.
In section eighteen of the act of 1835, above cited, there is
an express prohibition against the municipal taxation of the
"stock" of the company, and an express permission to tax
any "property" of the company within the jurisdiction of
the corporation. The real question is whether these two
clauses can be reconciled, and each given its proper effect.
The position of the railway company in this connection is
that the railroad and its appurtenances may not be taxed
either by the State or by municipalities or counties, at a
greater .rate than one half of one per cent upon its net annual
income; that this amount having been paid, the power to tax
the railroad and its appurtenances has been exhausted; that
the permission given the municipalities to tax the property
of the company applies only to such property as is not included in the term "railroad and appurtenances," and must
have been intended to include such property as the corporation, by virtue of its banking powers, could purchase or
.might receive in satisfaction of debts. It is further contended that the prohibition of the taxation of the stock
applies equally to the property represented by the stock.
In support of this contention we are cited to certain decisions holding that a tax upon the "property" of a.railway
company is within the prohibition of a tax upon the "stock"
of the company; in other words, that a tax upon the property

CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO. v. WRIGHT.

331

Opinion of the Court.

is a tax upon the stock. In examining these cases, however,
it will be found that the words "stock" or "capital stock "
were used in the sense of the capital, the plant, or- the property of the company, and not, as in this statute, in the
sense of stock or shares of stock, as distinguished from the
property of the company. Thus in Rome Railroad v. T/e
.Mayor &c., 14 Georgia, 275, there was an attempt made to
levy a tax upon the property of the Rome Railroad Company
within the corporate limits of the city of Rome. There was
a provision in the charter that the "stock" of the company
should "not be liable to any tax, duty or imposition whatever, unless such, and no more, as is now in the banks of this
State." The tax was held to be invalid. 'As it appeared in
this case that a certain part of the stock of the company,
which was on deposit in the bank, was expressly permitted
to be taxed, it was apparent that the word "stock" was used
in the sense of property, and that the money of the company
on deposit in the banks was intended to be distinguished from
its other property.
So, also in Skate v. Hood, 15 Rich. (Law) 177, a charter of a
railroad company exempting the "stock" of a railroad company from taxation was held also to exempt its "gross income,"
as the income was only an accessory of the stock, which was
an aggregate of the property and effects of the corporation.
Indeed, the general tenor of the authorities is to the effect
that where there is a general exemption of the stock or capital
stock of a corporation, without other explanatory words, the
exemption applies equally to the property of the corporation
represented by its shares of stock. Gordon v. Baltimore, 5
Gill, 231; Baltimore v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 6 Gill,
288; State v. Cumberland &c. Railroad, 40 Maryland, 22;
Conner8ville v. Bank of Indiana., 16 Indiana, 105; New
Haven v. City Bank, 31 Connecticut, 106; Hannibal & St.
Jo8epA Railroad v. Shacklett, 30 Missouri, 550. And, in the
Central Railroad& Banking Co. v. Georgia, 92 U. S. 665, it
was held by this court that, in view of the eighteenth section
of the act of 1835, the State itself could not tax the property
of the Central Railroad and Banking Company between

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Savannah and Macon beyond one half of one per cent upon
its annual net income, notwithstanding that, in 1872, it had
become consolidated with the Macon and Western Railroad
Company, whose charter did not possess such immunity from
taxation.
The only embarrassment in the case arises from a decision of
the Supreme Court of Georgia in the case of the Ordinary of
Bibb County v. CentraZ Railroad& Banking Co., 40 Georgia,
646. It appeared in this case that the ordinary of Bibb County
endeavored to levy a tax upon the property of railroad companies having their termini in Macon, and it was submitted
to the judge of the Macon circuit to decide whether, under its
charter, the company could be taxed for county purposes, or
was liable for any other tax than one half of one per cent
upon its annual net income. The judge held that so much of
the property, as was necessary and proper for sustaining the
railroads, was exempt from the county tax, but that such of
its real estate as was not improved and in use was subject to
be taxed until it was improved and used for railroad purposes.
Both parties appealed to the Supreme Court of the State.
The head-note of the case inthat court indicates the ruling
of the court to have been that all the property of the company
that was necessary and proper for laying, building and sustaining the railroad constituted a part of its capital stock, and
was not liable to be taxed in any other manner than was specified in its charter; but that any other property owned by the
company, which was not necessary for that purpose, might be
taxed by the county or other corporation in the ratio of taxation of like property. The statement of the head-note, however, is not borne out by an examination of the opinions. The
court, which then consisted of three members, was unanimous
in reversing the judgment of the court below, but each gave a
different reason for his opinion. Mr. Justice Warner, who
delivered the first opinion, held that the stock of the company
consisted of its capital invested in such property as was necessary and proper for conducting its business, and was not liable
to be taxed in any other manner than was specified in the
charter, either by the State or by the county, corporation ; -but

CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO. v. WRIGHT,

333

Opinion of the Court..

that any other property owned by it which was not necessary
and proper for railroad purposes, might be taxed in the ratio
of taxation of like property. Mr. Justice McCay concurred
upon the ground that under the laws of Georgia, as they then
existed, no county tax could be collected upon any property
not taxed by the StAte; that although the State had expressly
reserved the right to authorize municipal and other corporations to tax for local purposes the property of the company,
it had not by any law been as yet conferred on the counties.
Chief Justice Brown, on the other hand, held that although
the State had relinquished her right of taxation beyond a percentage upon the income, the company had expressly agreed
that a municipal or other corporation might tax any property
of the company within its jurisdiction; that such property was
not limited to such as the company might have purchased in
payment of debts, and the like, which w~s not appurtenant to
the road, but that the municipal corpoiation, through which
the road ran, might tax any of its property, real or personal,
in the ratio of taxation imposed on any other like property.
But, he was further of opinion, that that power had not been
exercised as to any part of the property of the company not
subject to a state tax; that the county was only authorized
to levy a percentage on the state tax, and that as the State
was not authorized to levy a tax upon the road and its appurtenances, and none such had been levied, there was no state
tax upon which the county could assess a percentage.
.If the opinion of Mr. Justice Warner had been the opinion
of the court, it would have been difficult to avoid the conclusion that this was a construction of the charter which
would have been binding upon the Federal court, as it held,
in effect, that the law taxing the property of the railroad
impaired the obligatiori of the contract contained in the
charter. But his opinion was not .the opinion of the court,
but of only one of its three members. The opinion of the
court was, simply, that the action of the court below should
be reversed for reasons in which no two of its members
concurred.
As our attention has not been called to any later case in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia which gives a
different construction to the charter of this road, we consider
ourselves at. liberty to deal with the question presented in
this case as an original one to which the Supreme Court of
the State has not given an answer.
In this aspect, we can have no doubt whatever of the
power of municipalities to do exactly what the charter
authorized them to do, namely, to tax any property, real or
personal, of the company within the jurisdiction of the corporation in the ratio of taxation of like property. While, as
above stated, the word "stock" has sometimes been held to
include the property of the corporation represented by its
stock, this is true only when the context does not require
a different construction. The distinction was clearly stated
by Chief Justice Waite in Bailrood Comanies v. Gaine , 97
U. S. 697, in which the charter of a railroad company provided that "the capital stock of said company shall be forever exempt from taxation, and the road, with all its fixtures
and appurtenances, including workshops, machinery and vehicles of transportation, shall be exempt from taxation for
the period of twenty years from the completion of the road
and no longer." It was insisted by the road that the term
"capital stock " must be held to signify the property purchased therewith and repiesented thereby, and that it necessarily followed that the perpetual exemption of the stock
from taxation extended to such property, and that full effect
might be given to the charter by exempting for a limited
period such property as was purchased or constructed with
money, not constituting a part of the fund subscribed by the
corporators, but borrowed pursuant.to the power which the
charter conferred upon the company: In delivering the opinion of the court, Mr. Chief Justice Waite said that there were
undoubtedly many cases to be found in this and other courts
where it had been held that an exemptioii of the capital stock
from taxation was equivalent to an exemption of the property
into which the capital had been converted. But in all these
cases the question had turned upon the effect to be given to
the term "capital" or "capital stock," as used in the par-

CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO. v. WRIGHT.

335

Opinion of the Court.

ticular charter under consideration, and that when the property had been exempted by reason of the exemption of the
capital, it had been because, taking the whole charter together, it was apparent that the legislature sd intended.
"Thus the capital stock of a bank usually consists of money
paid in to be used in banking, and an exemption of such capi,
tal stock from taxation must almost necessarily mean an
exemption of the securities into which the money had been
converted in the regular course of a banking business. And,
in general, an exemption of capital stock, without more,
may, with great propriety, be considered, under ordinary circumstances, as exempting that which, in the legitimate operations of the corporation, comes to represent the capital." It
was held, however, that in that particular case it could not
have been understood that the property was to represent the
capital for the purposes of taxation, and that such property
was taxable under the original charter at the expiration of
twenty years from the completion of the road.
The same construction was given to a similar provision of
the charter of the Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company in
Railroad Company v. Loftin, 98 U. S. 559. So in Bank v.
Tennessee, 104 U. S. 493, where a bank was required to "pay
to the State an annual tax of one half of one per cent upon
each share of capital stock, in lieu of all other taxes," and
was also allowed to "purchase and hold a lot of ground" for
its place of business, and hold such real property as might be
conveyed to it to secure its debts, it was held that the immunity from taxation extended only to so much of the building
as was required by the actual wants of the bank to carry on
its business. See, also, Wiggins Ferry (o. v. East St. Louis,
107 U. S: 365, and Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117 U. S. 129.
From a review of these cases, it is evident that while in the
absence of any words showing a different intent, an exemption of the stock or capital stock of a corporation may imply, and carry with it, an exemption of the property in which
such stock is invested, yet, if the legislature uses language at
variance with such intention, the courts, which will never presume a purpose to exempt any property from its just share of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the public burdens, will construe any doubts which may arise
*as to the proper interpretation of the charter against the
exemption.
In the eighteenth section of the charter under consideration
there are three clauses which cover the question of taxation.
First, the railroad and its appurtenances shall not be subject
to be taxed higher than one half of one per centum upon its
annual net income; second, no municipal or other corporation
shall have the power to tax the stock of said corporation;
third, but such municipal or other corporation may tax any
property, real or personal, of the said company within tile
jurisdiction of said corporation in the ratio of taxation of like
property. The first clause 'was obviously intended as a limit
upon state taxation; the second, as a prohibition upon the
powers of municipalities to tax the shares of stock held by
its citizens; the third, as an express permission to tax any
property of the company within its jurisdiction for local purposes. If, as insisted by the defendants, this permission were
limited to the taxation of property, belonging to the company,' other than the railroad and its appurtenances, the
clause would be meaningless, since the first clause, limiting
taxation to a percentage upon the income, applies only to the
railroad and. its appurtenances, and leaves to the State itself,
as well as to its municipalities, the power to tax property received by the corporation in satisfaction of debts, or otherwise, for purposes disconnected with the business operations
of the railroad. Full effect can be given to these three
clauses only by sustaining the right of the municipalities to
,tax any property of the company within their jurisdiction.
Indeed, the argument made here was the very one made in
connection with the somewhat similar clause in Railroad
Companies v. Gaines, 97 U. S. 697, and held to be unsound.
In the State of Georgia there seems to have been, prior to
the act of 1889, some efforts made to subject the property
of this road to municipal taxation, which were ineffectual by
reason of the legislature failing to proiide the proper machinery for the assessient and collection of such .taxes; and,
as late as 1883, it was held that its system of taxation virtually

CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO. v. WRIGHT.

337

Opinion of the Court.

excluded counties and municipal corporations from levying a
tax upon it for county or municipal purposes by making no
provision for the assessment and collection of such taxes.
11louston County v. Central Railroad c. Co., 72 Georgia, 211.
This defect seems to have been supplied by the acts of 1889
and 1890, and we see no reason why the system of taxation
provided by these acts is not valid and consistent with the
charter.
We regard it as quite immaterial that when the act of
1835 was passed, a county was not a municipal corporation,
or indeed a corporation at all. The power given by the
eighteenth section not only extends to municipal but to other
corporations, by which was evidently intended other corporations with power to tax for local purposes. If, for instance,
cities were reorganized under the names of boroughs or taxing
districts, the power of taxation, so far as this section is concerned, would pass to the same corporation under its new
name, if the legislature so directed; and the fact that no
corporations existed in 1835 under the names of boroughs or
taxing districts, would not affect the question. The essential
thing reserved was the power to tax for local purposes by
whatever corporation then existed, or should thereafter be
called into being, for municipal purposes. The legislature
could not then foresee what corporations might. thereafter be
established for municipal purposes, and it would be frittering
away its whole object to limit it to corporations then existing.
The decree of the court below was clearly right, and it is,
therefore,
Ajfi rmed.
VOL. CLXiv-22

