686"

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the questions were for a second time pressed in argument,
the court contented itself with calling attention to the fact
that they had been affirmatively adjudicated upon and were
concluded. We see no reason now to reopen controversies
which were then treated as concluded and have since been
approved and in all respects fully affirmed. The contention
that there is now presented in argument a grave constitutional
question, which was not pressed or considered in the prior
cases, is a mere assumption which has no foundation in fact.
A casual inspection of the points pressed by counsel in 0aey
v. Galli makes evident the fact that the very arguments now
advanced were then urged upon the court and held to be
untenable.
Judgment affirmed.
80n,

UNITED STATES AND THE SIOUX NATION 'v.
NORTHWESTERN EXPRESS STAGE AND TRANSPORTATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No.218.

Submitted1Iecember 7,1896.-Decided January4, 1897.

A corporation organized under the laws of a State is a citizen of the United
States within the meaning of that term as used in the act of March 3,
1891, c. 538, concerning claims arising from Indian depredations.'

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assis8tant Attorney General Howry and Mr. Alexander

Porter orcse for appellants.
Mr. John B. Sanborn, Mr. Charle8 king and Mr. William
B. King for appellees.
MR.JusTIcE

WHrrE delivered the opinion of the couvf

This-appeal was taken from a judgment of the Court of
Claims awarding to the appellees the sum of seven hundred

UNITED STATES v. NORTHWESTERN EXPRESS CO; 687
Opinion oA the Court.

and fifty dollars upon the following state of facts found by
the court, to wit:
"I. The claimant is, and was at the time of the depredation
hereinafter mentioned a corporation created under and by
virtue of the laws of the State of Minnesota, and was transacting the business of a common carrier in conveying passengers and freight at the time referred to.
." II. The claimant during the year 1879 was engaged in
carrying the mails and doing the business of a common carrier
from Bismarck, Dakota, to Deadwood and the Black Hills
upon the Territorial road from Bismarck to Cook station, in
part through" the Great Sioux reservation.
"I.
On the 5th of February, 1879, near Cedar Canyon,
property belonging to the claimant, consisting of four horses
and their harness, was taken or destfoyed by Indians of the
defendant's tribe, the same being of the value of $750. The
defendant Indians were at the time in amity with the United
States, and the depredation was committed without just cause
or provocation on the part of the claimant or its agents, and
the property has not been returned or paid for. The claim
has not been approved or allowed by the Secretary of the
Interior."
The Court of Claims decided on the facts so found as a conclusion of law, that the claimant, by reason of its incorporation
by a State of the Union, must be conclusively presumed to be
a citizen of the United States for the purposes of this action.
The act of March 3, 1891, c. 538, 26 Stat. 851, is entitled
"An act to provide for the adjudication and payment of claims
arising from Indian depredations." By the first section of
the act jurisdiction and authority was conferred upon the
Court of Claims, in addition to the jurisdiction already possessed by the court, to inquire into and finally adjudicate "all
claims for property of citizens of the United States" taken or
destroyed by Indians, under circumstances specified in the act.
The sole question presented by the appeal, therefore, is as to
whether, under a proper construction of the act referred to, a
corporation of a State for the purpose of the act is embraced
within the designation "citizens of the United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The act was considered in Johnson v. "Jhited States,' 160
U. S. 546, and we there held that a person who was not a
citizen of the United States at the time of an alleged appropriation of his property by a tribe of Indians was not entitled
to maintain an action in the Court of Claims under the act in
question. There was not in that case, however, any assertion
that the claimant was a citizen of a State as distinguished from
a citizen of the United States. It was also declared that as
the Court of Claims had no general jurisdiction over claims
against the United States, it could take cognizance only of
such matters as by the terms of the act of Congress were
committed to it. Whilst undoubtedly in a purely technical
and abstract sense citizenship of one of the States may not include citizenship of the United States, this does not meet the
question which we are to construe, which is, what is the meaning of the *Yords "citizens of the United States" as used in the
statute. Unquestionably, in the general and common acceptation, a citizen of the State is considered as synonymous with
citizen of the United States, and the one is therefore treated
as expressive of the other. This flows from the fact that the
one is normally and usually the other, and where such is not
the case, it is purely exceptional and uncommon. These considerations give rise to an ambiguity which we must solve, not
by reference to a mere abstract technicality, but by that cardinal rule which commands that we seek out and apply the evident purpose intended to be accomplished by the law-making
power.
Congress has frequently in its legislation, as also the treatymaking power, used the words "citizens of the United States"
in the broadest sense, and as embracing corporations created
by state law. Thus, in section 2319 of the Revised Statutes,
the right .to purchase mineral deposits in the publid lands was
conferred upon "citizens of the United States and those who
have'declared their intention to become such." Section 2321,
however, in regulating the mode by which the fact of citizenship should be established, provided that, "in the case of a corporation organized under the laws-of the United States, or of
any State or Territory thereof," the fact should be evidenced

UNITED STATES v. NORTHWESTERN EXPRESS CO. 689
Opinion of the Court,

"by the filing of a certified copy of their charter or certificate
of incorporation." By the French Spoliation act of January
20, 1885, c. 25, 23 Stat. 283, authority was conferred on the
Court of Claims to adjudicate upon certain claims of "citizens
The
of the United States or their legal representatives."
in
the
exercise
distinction
Court of Claims, however, made no
of jurisdiction between the claims of natural persons or of corporations. It entered upon no inquiry as to whether the stockholders of such corporations were composed in whole or in part
of other than citizens of the United States. Congress appropriated for the payment of judgments thus rendered in favor
of corporations. See 26 Stat. 905, 907, where appropriations
were made in favor of the receiver of a corporation styled the
Baltimore Insurance Company.
In various treaties entered into by the government, the term
"citizens of the United States" has been used in the general
sense already referred to. Thus in the treaty with Mexico
relative to the adjustment of unsettled claims, 15 Stat. 679,
680, jurisdiction is granted to a commission to consider ".al1
claims on the part of corporations, companies or private individuals, citizens of the United States, upon the government of
the Mexican Republic." Similar language was also employed
in the treaties with Venezuela, 16 Stat. 713, 714; with Peru,
16 Stat. 751, 752; with Great Britain, 17 Stat. 863, 867; and
with France, 21 Stat. 673, 674.
In various decisions of this court, commencing with Railroad Company v. Letsom, 2 How. 497, it has been adjudged
that for the purpose of suing anrd being sued in the courts of
the United States, a corporation of a State should be deemed
a citizen of a State, and for the purposes of jurisdiction, it
would be conclusively presumed that all the stockholders were
citizens of the State, which, by its laws, created the corporation. Muller v. Dow8, 94 U. S. 444, 445; St. Loui8 & San
.yra oimCo Railway v. James, 161 U. S. 545.
With this frequent use by Congress of the words "citizens
of the United States" as embracing a corporation of a State,
it remains only to be ascertained from the nature of the
remedy proposed to be effected by the-Indian depredation act
VOL. cLxiv-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

whether the words were used in the act in their general signification.

The act in question was a provision made by the United
States as the guardian of the Indians, controlling as well their
persons as their property, designed to make provision for the
payment of the injuries committed by its wards. It certainly
contemplated that citizens of the United States, even strictly
speaking, should be made whole for the losses they might
have sustained. But it is evident that cases might arise,
where, in order to make restitution to citizens of the United
States, the term in question would require a construction
embracing Federal and state corporations. For, as the legal
title to the property of a corporation is generally in the cor
poration, claims for damages to such property could not be
presented in the names of the several stockholders. To deny
relief to such a corporation would be practically therefore to
refuse redress to citizens of the United States.
It must have been contemplated, therefore, that a corporation thus chartered by Congress was to be treated under the
terms of the act herein referred to as a citizen of the United
States for the purposes thereof; and the same reasoning
which thus operates to bring a Federal corporation within
the terms of the act, leads also to the necessity of including
corporations of the several States of the Union.
It is true, as argued, that in some cases if corporations were
embraced within the terms of the act, an alien who was a
corporator might be benefited. But the ascertainment of
the purposes of Congress by this argument of inconvenience
on the one hand is completely destroyed by the overwhelming preponderance of inconvenience which would exist on the
other; for, doubtless, whilst the alien corporator may be an
exception, the corporator, who is both a citizen .of the State
and a citizen of the United States, is the rule. To follow'the
argument therefore would make the exception dominate and
destroy the rule.
As the settled law was that for the purposes of Federal jurisdiction such corporations are conclusively presumed to be composed of citizens of the States, and as such construction was

Ex Parte JONES.
Statement of the Case.

manifestly frequently approved by the reenactment of provisions of the statutes conferring jurisdiction without an attempt
to alter the presumption thus indulged in, it is proper to consider that such corporations were within the purview of words
as used in the remedial act.
Judgment affirmed.

-Ex Parte JONES.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted December 7, 1596.- Decided January 4, 1897.

Since the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, took effect, the jurisdiction of a
Circuit Court of the United States over an action brought by a citizen of
another State against a national bank established and doing business in
a State within the circuit, depends upon citizenship alone, and if that
jurisdiction be invoked on that ground, the jurisdiction of the Court of
Appeals of the circuit is final, even though another ground for jurisdiction in the Circuit Court be developed in the course of the proceedings.

THIS was a petition for an order to show cause why a writ
of mandamnu should not issue to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the First Circuit, to allow an appeal to this court from
a decree of that court affirming a decree of the Circuit Court
for the District of Massachusetts, dismissing the bill of Charles
F. Jone8 against The -Lerchant' National Bank, of Boston;
and also for a citation to such bank to appear and show cause
why such decree should not be corrected.
The petition set forth, in substance, that petitioner recovered
a judgment in the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts against one Swift, for the sun of $18,876.82, upon an
action of contract; that Swift paid the amount of the judgment to the clerk of the court, who entered satisfaction of the
same; that the money so received by the clerk was deposited
with the Merchants' National Bank for the benefit of petitioner, as he claims; that the clerk declined to instruct the
bank to pay the money over, whereupon petitiofier brought

