OCTOBER TERMI, 1896.
Syllabus.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeale is reversed; the
decree of the Circuit Court is afirned, and the cause remanded to that court accordingly.
IMR.

JUSTICE FIELD

and MR.

JUSTICE

SHIRAs dissented.

ROWE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 439. Submitted October 22, 1S96. -Decided

November 80, 1896.

On the trial of a person indicted for murder, the defence being that the act
was done in self-defence, the evidence on both sides was to the effect
that the deceased used language of a character offensive to the accused;
that the accused thereupon kicked at or struck at the deceased, hitting
him lightly, and then stepped back and leaned against a counter; that
the deceased immediately attacked the accused with a knife, cutting his
face; and that the accused then shot and killed his assailant. The trial
court in its charge pressed upon the jury the proposition that a person
who has slain another cannot urge in justification of the killing a necessity produced by his own unlawful acts. Held, that this principle had
no application in this case; that the law did not require that the accused
should stand still and permit himself to be cut to pieces, under the penalty that, if he met the unlawful attack upon him, and saved his own life
by taking that of his assailant, he would be guilty of manslaughter; that
under the circumstances the jury might have.found that the accused,
although in the wrong when he kicked or kicked at the deceased, did not
provoke the fierce attack made upon him by the latter. with a knife in
any sense that would deprive him of the right of self-defence against
such attack; and that the accused was entitled, so far as his right to resist the attack was concerned, to remain where he was, and to do whatever was necessary, or what he had grounds to believe at the time was
necessary, to save his life, or to protect him from great bodily harm.
If a person, under the provocation of offensive Ianguage; assaults the
speaker personally, but in such a way as to show that there is no intention to do him serious bodily harm, and then retires under such circumstances as show that he does not intend to do anything more, but in
good faith withdraws from further contest, his right of self-defence is
restored when the person assaulted, in violation of law pursues him with
a deadly weapon and seeks to take his life, or do him great bodily harm.

ROWE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Tins was an indictment for murder, alleged to have been
committed by the plaintiff in error, in the Cherokee Nation,
Indian Territory, on the 30th day of March, 1895,- the person
killed, Frank Bozeman, being a white man and not an Indian.
The verdict was guilty of manslaughter, and a motion for
new trial having been overruled, the accused was sentenced
to imprisonment in the penitentiary at Columbus, Ohio, for
the term of five years, and to pay to the United States a fine
of five hundred dollars.
The following agreed statement as to the evidence is taken
from the record:
"The testimony on the part of the government tended to
show that on the evening of the 30th of March, 1895, the defendant, David Cul Rowe, who is a Cherokee Indian, and the
deceased, Frank Bozeman, a white man, a citizen of the United
States, and not an Indian, met at a hotel at Pryor's Creek,
Indian Territory, at the supper table; that the defendant
appeared to be drinking, but was not much intoxicated; that
defendant said that he had his gun, and that he had a right
to carry it, as he was a ' traveller' ; that he had made a gun
play in that town on one occasion and he would make another
one; that he said to deceased, 'What do you think of that?'
The deceased did not reply, and defendant said to him, ' God
damn you, I'll make you hide out or I'll make you talk to
me'; that in a short time deceased got through his supper
and walked out into the office of the hotel, and presently defendant came out of the dining-room; that defendant said
something to deceased, which was not understood by the
witnesses, but the deceased did not answer; that defendant
turned to some other parties present and said, ' He (meaning
deceased) will not talk to me'; that one of the parties addressed said to defendant, 'Talk Cherokee to him' ; that the
deceased then said, ' He has got too damn much nigger blood
in him to talk anything with any sense'; that defendant then
kicked at deceased, hitting him lightly on the lower part of
the leg; that immediately deceased sprang at defendant,
striking him with a knife and cutting him in two places on
the face; that after deceased began cutting defendant the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

latter drew his pistol and fired, shooting deceased through
the body; that at the time the defendant fired the two men
were in striking distance of one another. The shot struck deceased in the right arm, near the elbow, and ranged through
the body from right to left side; that when shot was fired
deceased ran, and when defendant turned round the blood was
streaming from his face, where he had been cut by deceased,
and he said to the bystanders to go for a doctor, that he was
killed; that a short time after the difficulty the knife used by
deceased on defendant was found near the place where the
trouble occurred; that a knife was also found on the person of
deceased after his death.
"The testimony on the part of the defence tended to show
that on the day of the difficulty defendant came into town
from his home, about twenty miles distant, with his wife to
do some shopping; that he brought his pistol with him and
left it 'at the livery stable where he put up his team, and at
supper time went by the stable and got his pistol, fearing that
it might be stolen; that defendant did not have anything to
say to deceased in the dining-room, but was talking with the
father of the deceased, and that defendant was not intoxicated; that when defendant came out in the office deceased
used the language indicdted in the statement for the government, or words to that effect, and defendant kicked at him
and probably struck him lightly; that when defendant kicked
he stepped back and leaned up against the counter and deceased sprang at him and began cutting him with a knife; that
deceased cut him in the face and kept on striking at him with
the knife, and after he was cut in the face defendant drew
his pistol and fired at deceased, who was in the act of striking
him again with the knife. The foregoing is in substance the
statement of the defendant who testified in his own behalf.
"Proof was also offered tending to show that the reputation
of the deceased as a dangerous and lawless man was bad; that
the reputation of the defendant as a peaceable and law-abiding
man was good, and that the reputation of prosecuting witness
Thomas Boseman was bad for truth in the communities where
he had resided."

ROWE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

The court delivered an oral charge, occupying twenty-seven
pages of the printed record, and embracing a discussion of
most of the leading principles in, criminal law, as well as
many extracts from adjudged cases and elementary treatises.
lReferring to the law of self-defence, the court said to the
jury:
"A man might be to some extent in the wrong, and yet he
might avail himself of the law of self-defence, but what is
meant by his being in the lawful pursuit of his business means
that he is not himself attempting to kill, or that he is not
doing an act which may directly and immediately produce a
deadly affray between himself and his adversary. lie is not
allowed to do either. The only time when he can do an act
of that kind is when the condition exists which gives him the
right to invoke this law. I say if he is attempting directly
to kill, he is not in the lawful pursuit of his business unless it
is in his own defence under this law; and when he is doing
a wrongful act which immediately contributes to the resultbrings into existence an affray in which violence may be used
by the adversary and he may kill because of that violencewhen that is the case, the law says he is so far the author of
that violent condition as that he cannot invoke this law of
self-defence, and it depends upon the circumstances and conditions of the case whether or not he cab invoke the law so far
as to have his crime mitigated from murder to manslaughter.
Then, when he is in the lawful pursuit of his business -that is,
when he is occupying the relation to the state of case where the
killing occurred which I have named -and then is attacked
by another under circumstances which denote an intention to
take away his life or to do him some enormous bodily harm,
he may lawfully kill the assailant, provided he use all the
means in his power otherwise to save his own life or prevent
the intended harm, such as retreating as far as he can or disabling his adversary without killing him, if it be in his power.
Now, let us go over that again and see what these propositions are. He must be measurably in the right-and I have
defined to you what that means- and when he is so situated
he is attacked, in this case, by Frank Bozeman, the man who

OCTOBER TEILM, 1896.
Statement.of the Case.

was killed, and attacked under circumstances which denoted
an intention to take away his life or to do him some enormous
bodily harm, he may lawfully kill the assailant, provided he
use all the means in his power otherwise to save his own life
or prevent the intended harm, such as retreating as far as he
can or disabling his adversary without killing him, if it be in
his power. This proposition implies that he is measurably
in the right. If he is doing any of these things which I will
give you after awhile, which deprive him of the law of selfdefence because of his own conduct in precipitating a conflict
in which he kills, then he is not in the right; he is not doing
what he had a right to do, and this proposition of the law of
self-defence would not avail him; he could not resort to it,
,because his own conduct puts him in an attitude where, in the
eye of the law, he is by his own wrong the creator of the necessity under which he acts, and he cannot invoke that necessity.
The necessity must be one created by the man slain and which
was not brought into existence by the direct act of the defendant contributing to that necessity."
After saying that both the accused and the deceased were
upon the same plane in respect of the place or house in which
they were'at the time, each haviig the right to be there, the
court proceeded: "Neither one of them was required to retreat
under such circumstances, because the hotel or temporary stopping place of a man may be regarded as his dwelling place,
and the law of retreat i*n a case like that is different from
what it would be on the outside. Still, situated as was the
defendant and as was the deceased, there was a rule incumbent upon both of them which required that they should use
all reasonable means to avoid the condition which led to a
deadly conflict, whether that means-could have been avoided
by keeping out of the affray or by not going into it or by
stepping to one side; and this law says again that if a man is
in the right, if he stands without being the creator of that
condition and that condition is created by the man whom he
kills, and the man is doing that in the shape of exercising
an act of violence which may destroy his life or inflict great
injury upon his person, yet if he could have paralyzed that

ROWE v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

arm, if he could have turned aside that danger by an act of
less deadly character than the one he did exercise, the law
says he must do that. If he could have inflicted a less dangerous wound upon the man under the circumstances the law
commands him to do that, because when he is doing that he
is accomplishing'the only purpose the law of self-defence contemplates he has right to accomplish -that is, to protect
himself and not to execute vengeance, not to recklessly, wantonly and wickedly destroy human life, but to protect his own
life when he is in the right and the other party is in the
wrong."
M.r. Benjamin T. Duval and Mr. William F. Cravens for
plaintiff in error.
.Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for defendants;

inerror.
I. The court properly charged that malice must be gathered,
as an inference of law, from facts and circumstances proved.
It was correct in saying that a man is presumed to intend the
natural and probable consequence of his voluntary acts. Clarion Bank v. Jones, 21 Wall. 337; Commonwealth v. York,

9 Met. (Mass.) 93, 103; Commonwealth v. lffebster, 5 Cush.
295, 305; People v. Potter, 5 Michigan, 1, 8; People v. Scott,
6 Michigan, 287, 296; United States v. Taintor, 11 Blatchford,
374, 375.
II. The portion of the charge which relates to the right to
kill in self-defence when necessary is criticised on two grounds.
(a) It is said that the proof tended to show that defendant
had retreated and had declined further contest, and that the
above portion of the charge is erroneous because it does not
recognize the right of self-defence on the part of one who has
begun an affray, has in good faith retired from it, and has thus
manifested his purpose, and after that is assailed by his adversary.
This portion of the charge was not upon the particular facts.
of this case, or upon the theory of either the government or

OCTOBER TER-M, 1896.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

the defence. It was a general declaration of the law of selfdefence, confined toa state of facts where the one who does
a wrongful act "which immediately contributes to the result"
]kills his adversary who followed up this act with an attack.
There was no error in what the court said.
Self-defence is no excuse for a homicide if the'accused brought
on the difficulty and was him.self the aggressor. 1 Hale, P. C.,
482. Gibson v. State, 89 Alabama, 121; People v. Robertson,
67 California, 646 ; Kinney v. People, 108 Illinois, 519 ; State v.
Neeley, 20 Iowa, 108; State v. 3urdy, 81 Iowa, 603; State v.
Scott, 41 Minnesota, 365; Allen v. State, 66 Mississippi, 385;
State v. Brittain,89 N. 0. 481; Stewart v. State, 1 Ohio St.
66; Stoffer v. State, 15 Ohio St. 47; State v. llawkins, 18
Oregon, 476.
This part of the charge had no application to the case of
withdrawal from combat assumed in the brief and which is
the foundation of the criticism. If the judge did not charge
sufficiently, or at all, on that theory, he should have been so
requested. No request was preferred.
Therefore, if he charged the law of self-defence correctly as
far as he went, the case should not be reversed because he did
not extend the charge to a particular theory advanced by defendant. This theory rests on the narrowest of grounds.
There was nothing in the proof for defendant tending to
disprove the evidence for the government which tended to
show that after they came out of the dining-room defendant
accosted deceased, The evidence for the defendant tended to
show that immediately after the remark of deceased, which
followed this accosting, defendant kicked deceased, and stepped
back and leaned up against the counter, and deceased sprang
at him, cutting him with a knife, and then defendant shot
him. There was no evidence here tending to show a retirement
from the affray. The whole -tragedy was in one act. There
is nothing to indicate any interval.
Even if there be any grounds for saying that this evidence
might have indicated such a purpose, it is so slight that the
judge ought not to be put in error for not charging upon that
aspect of the right of self-defence without a special request.

ROWE v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

Counsel for defendant were not asleep when the charge was
given. They must have been very alert, for they took fifty
exceptions.
The record may present sufficient facts to warrant a renewal, if such an instruction had been asked and declined;
but the judge should not now be put in error for such cause.
The facts which the proof tended to show do not approach what
is required to predicate a. theory of withdrawal. There must
be a withdrawal in good faith, and it must be such as to show
the adversary that it is not desired to continue the conflict.
The adversary must pursue him. Parker v. State, 88 Alabama,
4; Pea~ple v. Mtong Ali Teak, 63 California, 544; llitiner v.
State, 19 Indiana, 48; State v. Dillon, 74 Iowa, 653; Brazzil v.
State, 28 Tex. App. 584.
Here there was no retreat, no withdrawal, no pursuit.
Can it be that a man can strike another, merely step back and
stand his ground, and, when the party assailed strikes back
with a deadly weapon, or attempts to shoot, kill him and go
free on the plea of self-defence!
(l) That portion of the extract from the charge is assailed
which says: "Provided he use all means in his power otherwise to save his own. life or prevent the intended harm, such
as retreating as far as he can, or disabling his adversary
without killing him, if it be in his power." It is said that
"defendant could not have retreated farther than he did, and
the fierceness of the attack made it impossible to save his life
by other means than by slaying his adversary."
What the judge said in this extract about retreating was in
the way of a general disquisition. When he came to consider
defendant's rights he plainly said that he, being a guest of
the hotel, was not bound to retreat at all, as follows: "Upon
the question of retreating as far as he can, there is a law which
says that if a man is in his dwelling house he need not retreat;
and that the hotel where defendant was lodging as a guest or
was about to lodge -was there for his supper anyway-and
where the other man was, put them both upon the same plane.
Neither one of them was required to retreat under such circumstances, because the hotel or temporary stopping place of

OCTOBER TERAI, 1896.
Opinion 'of the Court.

a manfmay be regarded as his dwelling place, and the law oQf
retreat in a case like that is different from what it would be
on the outside."
MR. JUSTICE HARLAw, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
We think that these portions of the charge (to which the
accused.duly excepted) were well calculated to mislead the
jury. They expressed an erroneous view of the law of selfdefence. The duty of the jury was to consider the case in
the light of all the facts. The evidence on behalf of the
government tended to show that the accused sought a difficulty with some one; that on behalf of the accused, would
not justify any such conclusion, but rather that he had the
reputation of being a peaceable and law-abiding man. But
the evidence on both sides was to the effect that the deceased
used language of an offensive character for the purpose of
provoking a difficulty with the accused, or of subjecting him
to the indignity of a personal insult. The offensive words
did not, it is true, legally justify the accused in what he did
- the evidence of the government tending to show that "he
kicked at deceased, hitting him lightly on the lower part of
the leg"; that on the part of the accused tending to show
that he "kicked at" the deceased and "probably struck him
lightly." According to the evidence of thd defence, the
accused then "stepped back, and leaned up against the counter," indicating thereby, it may be, that he neither desired
nor intended to pursue the matter further. If the jury believed the evidence on behalf of the defence, they might
reasonably have inferred from the actions of the accused that
he did not intend to make a violent or dangerous personal
assault upon the deceased, but only, by kicking at him or
kicking him lightly, to express his indignation at the offensive
language of the deceased. It should have been submitted to
the jury whether the act of the accused in stepping back and
leaning against the counter, not in an attitude for personal
conflict, was intended to be, and should have been reasonably

ROWE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

interpreted as. being, a withdrawal by the accused in good
faith from further controversy with the deceased. On the
contrary, the court, in effect, said that if, because of words
used by the deceased, the accused kicked at or kicked the
deceased, however lightly, and no matter how offensive those
words were, he put himself in a.posibion to make the killing
manslaughter, even if the taking of life became, by reason of
the suddenness, rapidity and fierceness of the assault of the
deceased, absolutely necessary to save his own. By numerous
quotations from adjudged cases, the court, by every form of
expression, pressed upon the jury the proposition that "a
person who has slain another cannot urge in justification of
the killing a necessity produced by his own unlawful and
wrongful acts." But that abstract principle has no application to this case, if it be true -as the evidence on behalf of
the defence tended to show -that the first real provocation
came from the deceased when he used towards the accused
language of an offensive character, and that the accused immediately after kicking at or lightly kicking the deceased,
signified by his conduct that he no longer desired controversy
with his adversary; whereupon the deceased, despite the
efforts of the accused to retire from further contest, sprang
at the latter, with knife in hand, for the purpose of taking
life, and would most probably have accomplished that object,
if the accused had not fired at the moment he did. Under
such circumstances, did the law require that the accused
should stand still, and permit himself to be cut to pieces,
under the penalty that if he met the unlawful attack upon
him and saved his own life, by taking that of his assailant,
he would be guilty of manslaughter? We think not.
If a person, under the provocation of offensive language,
assaults the speaker personally, but in such a way as to show
that there is no intention to do him serious bodily harm, and
then retires under such circumstances as show that he does
not intend to do anything more, but in good faith withdraws
from further contest, his right of self-defence is restored when
the person assaulted, in violation of law, pursues him with a
deadly weapon and seeks to take his life or do him great

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion'of the Court.

bodily harm. In Parker v. The Sate, 88 Alabama, 4, 7, the
court, after adverting to the general rule that the aggressor
cannot be heard to urge in his justification a necessity for the
killing which was produced by his own wrongful act, said:
",This rule, however, is not of absolute and universal application. An exception to it exists in cases where, although the
defendant originally provoked the conflict, he withdraws from
it in good faith, and clearly announces his desire for peace.
If he be pursued after this, his right of self-defence, though
once lost, revives. 'Of course,' says Mr. Wharton, in referring to this modification of the rule, ' there must be a real and
bonaj/de surrender and withdrawal on his part; for, if there
be not, then he will continue to be regarded as the aggressor.'
1 Wharton's Cr. Law, (9th ed.) ยง 486. The meaning of the
principle is that the law will always leave the original aggressor an opportunity to repent before he takes the life of his
adversary. Bishop's Cr. Law, (7th ed.) ยง 871." Recognizing
this exception to be a just one, the court properly said, in
addition: "Due caution must be observed by courts and
juries in its application, as it involves a principle which is
very liable to abuse. The question of the good or bad faith
of the retreating party is of the utmost importance, and should
generally be submitted to the jury in connection with the fact
of retreat itself, especially where there is any room for conflicting inferences on this point from the evidence." Both
parties to a mutual combat are wrong-doers, and the law of
self-defence cannot be invoked by either, so long as he continues in the combat. But, as said by the Supreme Court of
Iowa in State v. Dillon, 74: Iowa, 653, 659, if one "actually and in good faith withdraws from the combat, he ceases
to be a wrong-doer; and if his adversary have reasonable
grouna for holding that he has so withdrawn, it is sufficient, even though the fact is not clearly evinced." See also
1 Bishop's New Crim. Law, ยง 702; P eople v. Robertson,
67 California, 646, 650; Stlqfel"s case, 15 Ohio St. 47. In
Wharton on Homicide, ยง 483, the author says that "though
the defendant may have thus provoked the conflict, yet, if he
withdrew from it in good faith and clearly announced his

ROWE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

desire for peace, then, if he be pursued, his rights of selfdefence revive."
We do not mean to say that the jury ought to have found
that the accused, after kicking the deceased lightly, withdrew
in good faith from further contest and that his conduct should
have been so interpreted. It was for the jury to say whether
the withdrawal was in good faith, or was a mere device by the
accused to obtain some advantage of his adversary. But we
are of opinion that, under the circumstances, they might have
found that the accused, although in the wrong when he kicked
or kicked at the deceased, did not provoke the fierce attack
made upon him by the latter, with knife in hand, in any sense
that would deprive him altogether of the right of self-defence
against such attack. If the accused did, in fact, withdraw from
the combat, and intended so to do, and if his conduct should
have been reasonably so interpreted by the deceased, then the
assault of the latter with a deadly weapon, with the intent to
take the life of the accused or to do him great bodily harm,
entitled the latter to the benefit of the principle announced in
Beard v. United States, 158 U. S. 550, 564, in which case it
was said: "The defendant was where he had a right to be
when the deceased advanced upon him in a threatening manner and with a deadly weapon; and if the accused did not
provoke the assault, and had at the time reasonable grounds
to believe, and in good faith believed, that the deceased
intended to take his life or to do him great bodily harm, he
was not obliged to retreat, nor to consider whether he could
safely retreat, but was entitled to stand his ground and meet
any attack made upon him with a deadly weapon, in such a
way and with such force as, under all the circumstances, he,
at the moment, honestly believed, and had reasonable grounds
to believe, was necessary to save his own life or to protect
himself from great bodily injury."
The charge, as above quoted, is liable to other objections.
The court said that both the accused and the deceased had a
right to be in the hotel, and that the law of retreat in a case
like that is different from what it would be if they had been
on the outside. Still, the court said that, under the ciroum-

OCTOBER TER-M,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

stances, both parties were under a duty to use all reasonable
means to avoid a collision that would lead to a deadly conflict, such as keeping out of the affray, or by not going into it,
or "by stepping to one side"; and if the accused could have
saved his life, or protected himself against great bodily harm,
by inflicting a less dangerous wound than he did upon his
assailant, or "if he could have paralyzed that arm," without
doing more serious injury, the law commanded him to do so.
In other words, according to the theory of the charge, although
the deceased sprang at the accused, with knife in hand, for the
purpose of cutting him to pieces, yet if the accused could have
stepped aside or paralyzed the arm of his assailant, his killing
the latter was not in the exercise of the right of self-defence.
The accused was where he had the right to be, and the law did
'not require him to step aside when his assailant was rapidly
advancing upon him with a deadly weapon. The danger in
which the accused was, or believed himself to be, at the
moment he fired is to some extent indicated by the fact,
proved by ,the government, that immediately after he disabled his assailant (who had two knives upon his person) he
said that he, the accused, was himself mortally wounded and
wished a physician to be called. The accused was entitled, so
far as his right to resist the attack was concerned, to remain
where he was, and to do whatever was necessary or what he
had reasonable grounds to believe at the time was necessary,
to save his life or to protect himself from great bodily harm.
And under the circumstances, it was error to make the case
depend in whole or in part upon the inquiry whether the
accused could, by stepping aside, have avoided the attack, or
could have so carefully aimed his pistol as to paralyze the arm
of his assailant without more seriously wounding him.
Without referring to other errors alleged to have been
committed, the judgment. below is reversed and the case is
remanded for a new trial.
.Reversed.
MR. JusTrc

BRowN and IMP.. JusriEcE PECKHAm dissented.

