OCTOBER TERI, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

of the property and in the situation of the parties were such
as to render it inequitable to decree the relief sought as against
Bryan. So that. whether the barring in this jurisdiction of
the remedy merely as against Wood would or would not in
itself defeat a decree against Bryan, without more, we hold
that relief was properly refused, and the decree is
Aflirmed.

UNITED STATES v. OREGON AND CALIFORNIA
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 818. Argued November12, 1896. -Decided

December 14, 1896.

The grant of public land made to the Oregon Central Railroad Company by
the act of May 4, 1870, c. 69, 16 Stat. 94, "for the purpose of aiding in the
construction of a railroad and telegraph line from Portland to Astoria and
from a suitable point of junction near Forest Grove to the Yamhill River
near McMinnville in the State of Oregon" contemplated a main line from
Portland to Astoria opening up to settlement unoccupied and inaccessible territory and establishing railroad communication between- the two
termini, and also the construction of a branch road from Forrestville
to McMinnville, twenty-one miles in length, running through the heart
of the Willamette Valley, and it devoted the lands north of the junction,
not absorbed by the road from Portland to that point, to the building of
the road to the north.
The construction of the branch road, though included in the act, was subordinate and subsidiary, and this court cannot assume that if the promoters had sought aid merely for the subordinate -road, their application
would have been granted.
The facts that the act of 1870 grants land for the purpose of aiding in the
construction of a railroad-in the singular number-and that the act
of January 31, 1885, c. 46, 23 Stat. 296, does the same, do not affect these
conclusions.

THIS was a bill brought by the United States against the Oregon Central Railroad Company and the Oregon and California
Railroad Company, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for ihe District of -Oregon, to quiet title to about ninety thousand acres of land in the State of Oregon; and a cross bill filed
by the defendants to quiet title to the same land in the Oregon

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD.

527

Statement of the Case.

and California Railroad Company. The cause was heard on
the pleadings and a stipulation as to the facts with accompanying maps and documents.
On May 4, 1870, an act of Congress was approved, (16 Stat.
94,) which is as follows:
"CuAP. LXIX.- An act granting lands to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from Portland to
Astoria and McMinville,1 in the State of Oregon.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That
for the purpose of aiding in the construction of a railroad
and telegraph line from Portland to Astoria, and from a suitable point of junction near Forest Grove to the Yamhill River,
near McMinville, in the State of Oregon, there is hereby
granted to the Oregon Central Railroad Company, now
engaged in constructing the said road, and to their successors and assigns, the right of way through the public lands
of the width of one hundred feet on each side of said road,
and the right to take from the adjacent public lands materials for constructing said road, and also the necessary lands
for depots, stations, side tracks and other needful uses in
operating the road, not exceeding forty acres at any one
place; and, also, each alternate section of the public lands,
not mineral, excepting coal or iron lands' designated by odd
numbers nearest to said road, to the amount of ten such alternate sections per mile, on each side thereof, not otherwise disposed of or reserved or held by valid preemption or homestead
right at the time of the passage of this act. And in case the
quantity of ten full sections per mile cannot be found on. each
side of said road, within the said limits of twenty miles, other
lands designated as aforesaid shiall be selected under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior on either side of any part
of said road nearest to and not more than tventy-flve miles
from the track of said road to make up such deficiency.
"SEc. 2. And be it further enacted, That the Commissioner
of the General Land Office shall cause the lands along the line
1

In this act McMinnville ig spelled with one " n.".,

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

of the said railroad to be surveyed with all convenient speed.
And whenever and as often as the said company shall file with
the Secretary of the Interior maps of the survey and location
of twenty or more miles of said road, the said Secretary shall
caUse the said granted lands adjacent to and coterminous with
such located sections of road to be segregated from the public
lands; and thereafter the remaining public lands, subject to
sale within the limits of the said grant, shall be disposed of
only to actual settlers at double the minimum price for such
lands: And provided also, That settlers under the provisions
of the homestead act who comply with the terms and requirements of said act, shall be entitled, within the said limits of
twenty miles, to patents for an amount not exceeding eighty
acres each of the said ungranted lands, anything in this act to
the contrary notwithstanding.
"SEc. 3. 'And be it further enacted, That whenever and as
often as the said company shall complete and equip twenty
or more consecutive miles of the said railroad and telegraph,
the Secretary of the Interior shall cause the same to be
examined, at the expense of the company, by three commissioners appointed by him; and if they shall report that such
completed section is a first-class railroad and telegraph, properly equipped and ready for use, he shall cause patents to be
issued to the company for so much of the said granted lands
as shall be adjacent to and coterminous with the said coinplected [completed] sections.
"SEc. 4. And be itffurther enacted, That the said alternate
sections of land granted by this act, excepting only such as
are necessary for the company to reserve for depots, stations,
side tracks, wood yards, standing ground and other needful
uses in operating the road, shall be sold by the company only
to actual settlers, in quantities not exceeding one hundred
and sixty acres or a quarter section to any one settler, and at
prices not exceeding two dollars and fifty cents per acre.
"SEc. 5. And be itfirther enacted, That the said company
shall, by mortgage or deed of trust to two or more trustees,
appropriate and set apart all the net proceeds of the sales of
the said granted lands, as a sinking fund, to be kept invested

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD.

529

Statement of the Case.

in the bonds of the United States, or other safe and more
productive securities, for the purchase from time to time, and
the redemption at maturity, of the first mortgage construction bonds of the company, on the road, depots, stations, side
tracks and wood yards, not exceeding thirty thousand dollars per mile of road, payable in gold coin not longer than
thirty years from date, with interest payable semi-annually
in coin not exceeding the [rate] of seven per centum per
annum; and no part 6f the principal or interest of the said
fund shall be applied to any other use until all the said bonds
shall have been purchased or redeemed and cancelled; and
each of the said first mortgage bonds shall bear the certificate of the trustees, setting forth the manner in which the
same is secured and its payment provided for. And the District Court of the United States, concurrently with the state
courts, shall have original jurisdiction, subject to appeal and
writ of error, to enforce the provisions of this section.
"SEc. 6. And be itfurther enacted, That the said company
shall file with the Secretary of the Interior its assent to this
act within one year from the time of its passage; and the
foregoing grant is upon condition that said company shall
complete a section of twenty or more miles of said railroad
and telegraph within two years, and the entire railroad and
telegraph within six years, from the same date."
Within one year from the passage of this act, the Oregon
Central Railroad Company filed with the Secretary of the
Interior its assent to the act, and prior to July 31, 1871,.and"
February 2, 1872, filed in -that department maps of survey
and definite location of its line of railroad, being a location
from Portland to the Yamhill River near McMinnville via a
point near Forest Grove, and.from that point to Castor Creekc,
a point twenty miles toward Astoria; and from Castor Creek
to Astoria; the distances being, about twenty-six miles from
Portland to Forest Grove; about twenty-two and three fourths
miles from there to the Yamhill River; and about one hundred and two and a half miles from Forest Grove to Astoria.
The lands adjacent to and coterminous with the entire line of
definite location were segregated and withdrawn from the pubVOL. CLXIV-34:

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
.Statement of the Case.

lie lands. Twenty miles of road from Portland, running due
west and terminating at a point near the town of Hillsboro,
in Washington County, Oregon, were constructed, and about six
miles more to a point near Forest Grove; and from that point
something over twenty-one miles running almost directly south
to a point near McMinnville in Yamhill County. The line was
constructed on a curve as it approached Forest Grove.
The Secretary of the Interior on February 16, 1872, accepted
the first twenty miles as completed under the act, and on June
23, 1876, he accepted another twenty-seven and one half miles
as so completed, being the distance from Hillsboro to a point
near Forest Grove, and from that point to McMinnville.
. On October 6, 18S0, the Oregon Central Railroad Company,
for value, sold and conveyed to the Oregon and California
Railroad Company all the title and interest which it had acquired in and to the lands granted under the act, and all its
road, franchises and privileges; but it was not admitted by
the United States that the Oregon Central Railroad Company
had a legal right to make said sale and conveyance. On that
day the Oregon Central Railroad Company was insolvent and
went into liquidation, and the conveyance was made to settle
its business and dispose -of its property. Neither of these
railroad companies nor any one else has ever constructed or
equipped any porltion or part of any railroad from the point
near Forest Grove to Astoria.
January 31, 1885, Congress passed an act, 23 Stat. 296, c. 46,
the first section of which is as follows:
"That so much of the lands granted by an act of Congress
entitled 'An act granting land to aid in the construction of
a railroad and telegraph line from Portland to Astoria and
McMinnville, in the State of Oregon,' approved May fourth,
eighteen hundred and seventy, as are adjacent to and coterminous with the uncompleted portions of said road, and not
embraced within the limits of said grant for the completed
portions of said road, be, and the same are hereby, declared to
be forfeited to the United States and restored to the public domain, and made subject to disposal unddr the general land laws
of the United States as though said grant had never been made."

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD.

531

Statement of the Case.
July 8, 1885, the Commissioner of the General Land Office
issued to the local land office at Oregon City instructions for
its guidance under the act of January 31, 1885, and a diagram
showing the limits of the forfeited lands and that portion of
the grant which was not affected by the act. 4 Land Dec.
15. These instructions were approved. by the Acting Secretary
of the Interior. The diagram showed that the road ran from
Portland west to a point near Forest Grove where it turned
almost at a right angd and ran south to McMinnville. From
that point two lines were drawn, one due north and the other
due west, both terminating at the twenty mile limits. The
granted lanas lying within the quadrant formed by these lines
and the twenty mile limits, and also the indemnity lands within
said lines and the twenty-five mile limits, were designated on
the -diagram as "forfeited." The forfeited lands on the line
from Forest Grove to Astoria were also shown.
In November, 1885,-the Oregon and California Railroad
Company, assignee of the Oregon Central Railroad Company,
presented to the land office a list of lands embraced within
the territory claimed in this suit to be forfeited to the United
States, and tendered the fees for locating .the same, which
were declined and the list rejected upon the ground that the
lands bad been forfeited.
About the same time there was filed in the land department
a petition of the receiver of the Oregon and California Railroad Company, praying that the instructions in so far as they
applied to the granted lands in said quadrant be revoked.
This petition was referred to the Commissioner for examination and report, and a report was subsequently submitted
recommending "that the restoration remain in force as per
instructions of July -8, 1885," and transmitting a second diagram, "showing the accurate limits of the grant." On April
5, 1887, the Secretary of the Interior passed upon the matter
of the application of the receiver and held that the road from
Portland to Forest Grove, and from the latter point to McMinnville, was to be treated as two distinct roads, the limits
of which should be adjusted separately. 5 Land Dec. 549. By
that adjustment the quadrant northwest from Forest Grove

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

fell within the lands forfeited, which was in accordance with
the restoration of July 8, 1885.
Some of the lands claimed to have been forfeited to the
United States have been patented and are in the actual occupation of the patentees or persons claiming under them, and
other portions of said lands for which patents have been issued
are unoccupied and are wild lands, as is true of some of the
lands claimed by the United States, which have not been sold
or patented, and are not in the actual physical possession of
any person or party.
The following is a sufficient reproduction of the diagram:

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD.

533

Argument for Appellees.

The Circuit Court, Bellinger, J., held that the lands within
the quadrant were included within the lands forfeited to the
government, and decreed accordingly. 57 Fed. Rep. 426.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed
this decree and directed a decree in favor of the Oregon and
California Railroad Company. 29 U. S. App. 497. Thereupon the present appeal was prosecuted.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General .Dickinson and Mr. George
I. William8 for appellants.
Mr. J. Jiubley Ashton and Mr. Joseph HI. Chioate (with
whom were Mr. Charles 17. Tweed and Mf1r. William F.
Ilerrin on the brief), for appellees.
I. The act of May 4, 1870, made a grant inprmsenti to the
Oregon Central Railroad Company, "and to their successors
and assigns," of alternate sections of the public lands to the
amount of ten sections per mile "on each side," of the road,
providing for indemnity within an additional five miles, or
within twenty-five miles "from the track of said road," with
the right on the part of the company to locate its road in
sections of twenty or more miles, and to construct its road in
like sections, and thereupon receive patents for so much of
the granted lands as should be "adjacent to and coterminous
with the said completed sections." Schulenberg v. Harriman,
21 Wall. 44;
iseConsin Central Railroad v. Price County,
133 U. S. 496; Deseret Salt Go. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241;
Bybee v. Oregon,& CaliforniaRailroad,139 U. S. 663; Zake
Superior &c. Co. v. Cunning/ham, 155 U. S. 354.
II. The Secretary of the Interior, in executing the act of
May 4, 1870, construed the act as a grant providing for the
construction of one railroad from Portland to Astoria and
MeMinnville, and providing for the continuity of the line
and the corresponding continuity of the grant from Portland
to McMinnville, and not as a grant for two different and distinct railroads, one from Portland to Astoria, and the other
from a junction point near Forest Grove to McMinnville.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellees.

This original and contemporaneous construction of the granting act by the department charged by law with the execution
of the act remained unchanged for fifteen years in that department.
III. Agreeably to the settled doctrine of this court, the
contemporaneous construction and effect given by the Department of the Interior to the granting act of May 4, 1870, as
above stated, if not decisive, is entitled to very great weight,
and should not be disregarded except for some strenuous
reasons. United States v. Union Paciflo Railway, 148 U. S.
562; United States v. Johnston, 124: U. S. 236; JMerritt v.
Cameron, 137 U. S. 542; United States Y. Alabama Southern
Railway, 142 U. S. 621.
The contemporaneous decision of the Secretary of the Interior in and in respect to those matters had by law the force
and effect of a final and conclusive adjudication, and was binding as authority upon his successors and upon the Executive
Department of the government. The rights of the grantee,
in the act, as vested under that determination, could not be
impaired or affected except by a proceeding directly taken
for that purpose. Noble v. Union River Logging Railroad,
147 U. S. 165; United States v. Bank of the i etropolis, 15
Pet. 377; Kendall v. Stokes, 3 How. 87; Lamborn v. County
Commissioners, 97 U. S.181, 185.
IV. The act of forfeiture of January 31, 1885, must be regarded as a legislative interpretation of the granting act,
involving an understanding by Congress that the granting
act provided for one railroad and telegraph line, beginning
at Portland, and having termini respectively at Astoria and
McMinnville.
The language of the forfeiting act of 1885 is as follows:
"That so much of the lands granted by an act of Congress
entitled 'An act granting land to aid in the construction of
a railroad and telegraph line from Portland to Astoria and
McMinnville, in the State. of Oregon,' approved May 4, 1870,
as are adjacent to and coterminous with the uncompleted
portions of said road, and not embraced within the limits of
said grant for the completed portions of said road, be, and

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD.

535

Argument for Appellees.

the same are hereby, declared to be forfeited to the United
States."
It will be perceived that for its description, and its sole
description, of the railroad and telegraph line provided for by
the granting act,'the forfeiting act refers to the title of the
granting act, which is recited in the forfeiting act and describes
the railroad and telegraph line, contemplated by the granting
act, as "a railroad and telegraph line from Portland to Astoria
and McMinnville."
Throughout the body of the forfeiting act, the road thus
described is referred to only as "said road," showing distinctly
that Congress, when it passed the forfeiting act, understood
that the road which the granting act had in view was one
road from Portland to Astoria and McMinnville, as expressed
in the title of that act.
Congress in 1885 thus affirmed the construction of the
granting act upon which the Department of the Interior had
proceeded and acted in executing the provisions of that act,
and expressed its understanding that such executive construction of the granting act conformed to its intention when it
passed that act.
If the effect we have thus attributed to the act of 1885, as
a legislative interpretation of the act of 1870, involving an
understanding by Congress that the act of 1870 had in view
one railroad from Portland to McMinnville, be the correct
legal effect of the act of 1885, the question of the construction
to be given to the act of 1870 in respect of the point here in
controversy, is removed from the region of legal doubt or
contestation.
V. The contemporaneous construction of the act of 1870 by
the Department of the Interior, in execution of it, and the
legislative interpretation of the act by Congress in 1885, were
plainly correct. The provisions of the act of 1870 show clearly
that Congress intended to make one grant to one company
for one, railroad and telegraph line "from Portland to Astoria
and M 'cinnville,"'as expressed in the title of the act, and
declared in the act of forfeiture of 1885.
The one railroad describid in the act was to run from Port-

OCTOBER TERM!, 1896.
Argument for Appellees.

land, as its initial point, to Astoria and to the Yamhill River,
near McMinnville, and it was to run through a point of junction near Forest Grove; showing that what the act contemplated was a union of the tracks of this one railroad from
Poftland to Astoria and to the Yamhill River, near McMinnvile, at a suitable point of junction near Forest Grove, one
line of tracks proceeding to Astoria and another line of tracks
proceeding to the Yamhill River, near McMinnville.
The road from Portland was to be bifurcated, so to speak,
at a suitable point of junction near Forest Grove, and to run
to Astoria and to McMinnville, thus affording communication
by railroad from Portland to Astoria and McMinnville.
It is conceded that the maintenance of any other view of the
meaning and intent of the act involves and requires the insertion of the words, "a railroad and telegraph line," before
the words, "from a suitable point of junction near Forest
Grove," etc., in the first section, so as to make the section
read: "That for the purpose of aiding in the construction of a
railroad and telegraph from Portland to Astoria, and [a railroad and telegraph line] from a suitable point of junction
near Forest Grove to the Yamhill River, near McMinnville,
in the State of Oregon, there is hereby granted," etc.
But the words referred to cannot be inserted into the statcute agreeably to the settled doctrine of this court. Leavenworth, Lawrence &c. Railroad v. United States, 92"U. S. 733;
Nhewhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 761, and if it can be said that the

words of the statute admit of-any reasonable doubt as to their
meaning or application, it is clearly proper that the title of the
act be considered in determining, the intent of Congress, agreeably to the principle so recently stated by this court in the case
of -HolyTrinity Chkurch v. United States, 143 U. S. 457.

VI. It thus appears that the so-called quadrant lands in
question were fully earned by the Oregon Central Railroad
Company under the terms of the grant by the completion and
acceptance of the second constructed section of its road from
the twenty mile post, near Hillsboro, to McMinnville, as lands
within the limits of the grant- adjacent to and coterminous
with that section.

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD.

537

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
If the act of May 4, 1870, should be held to have authorized
the construction of a main road from Portland to Astoria, and
that the lands adjacent to, and coterminous with, such main
road, on both sides, were granted in order to accomplish that
purpose; and also to have authorized the construction of a
branch from the main line, at a junction near Forest Grove,
to McMinnville, then it would follow that all of the lands
available on both sides as far as Forest Grove, and to an extent of twenty miles on each side, would be absorbed in aiding
to build the main line; and so of the lands along the main
line from Forest Grove to Astoria. And inasmuch as the line
from Forest Grove to Astoria, and from Forest Grove, at the
junction with the main line, south toward McMinnville, was,
in its general bearing, at right angles to the main line from
Portland to Forest Grove, the line from Portland to Forest
Grove would absorb nearly all of the lands lying east of the
branch line to McMinnville, and a part of the lands lying east
of the line from McMinnville through Forest Grove, the point
of junction, northwards toward Astoria. Hence but little
could be earned for building the branch line except the lands
lying west of it and south of the point of junction at Forest
Grove, and none of the land lying north of a line drawn from
Portland through Forest Grove could be held to have been
within the contemplation of the act as donated for the purpose
of building a branch road from the junction to McMinnville.
In this aspect, as no road was built from Forest Grove
toward Astoria, substantially all that was earned was the land
lying within the twenty mile limits on each side of the main
road from Portland to Forest Grove, and the land lying west
of the McMinnville branch and south of a line drawn from.
Portland through Forest Grove; and all of the lands lying in
the quadrant north and west of Forest Grove were unearned
lands, and forfeited under the act of January 31, 1885. These
lands "are adjacent to and coterminous with the uncompleted
portions of said road, and not embraced within the limits of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

said grant for the completed portions of said road." But
although a part of the lands lying east of this quadrant "are
adjacent to and coterminous with the uncompleted portions
of said road," yet they are "embraced within said grant for
the'completed portions of said road," for they lie within the
twenty mile limits of the completed portion from Portland to
Forest Grove.
The railroad companies contend that no such thing as a
branch road or a junction in the ordinary sense of the word
was contemplated, and that, having a right to build from
Portland to Astoria, and "from a suitable point of junction
near Forest Grove to the Yamhill River near McMinnville,"
.they could treat the act as if it authorized the building of a
continuous road from Portland via Forest Grove to McMinnville, without regard to the provisions for a road beyond
Forest Grove to Astoria; and, by constructing their road
with a curve at Forest Grove could properly claim all of
the lands falling within twenty miles of this circuitous route
'from Portland to McMinnville as intended to be granted for
the construction of such a road. And, having actually so
built, that they were entitled to all the lands lying within
a quadrant produced by a radius reaching twenty miles from
the curve.
Secretary Lamar rejected this contention and held that the
act' of May 4, 1870, contemplated two distinct roads, a road
from Portland to Astoria, and a road from Forest Grove to
McMinnville; that the words "point of junction" were to be
given their usual meaning of a point where two or more roads
join; that had the words of forfeiture "so much of the lands
granted

.

.

as are adjacent to and coterminous with the

uncompleted portion of said road," been unqualified, the line
dividing the forfeited lands from those not forfeited would
have been drawn through Forest Grove at right angles to
thie unconstructed road at that point and terminating at the
lateral limits of the grant, but that as this would have thrown
out of the grant large tracts of lands that were opposite to the
constructed portions of the road, Congress qualified the words
of forfeiture by adding "and not embraced within the limits

UNITED. STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD.

539

Opinion of the Court.

of said grant for the completed portions of said road," which
saved to the grant a full complement of lands granted for
every mile of road actually constructed, and the Secretary
remarked that this view of the act was much strengthened
"when it is observed that the lands in said quadrant lie along
the uncompleted portion on both sides thereof, and could have
been earned, if at all, by that line."
The rule of construction applicable to the granting act is
the familiar rule that all grants of this description must be
construed favorably to the government, and that nothing
passes but what is conveyed in clear and explicit language.
Dubuque fr Pac~flo Railroad v. Litekifeld, 23 How. 66, 88;
Leavenworth, Lawrence &c. Railroad Co. v. United States, 92
U. S. 733, 740; Slidell v. Grandjean, 111 U. S. 412, 437;
'oo8aw Mining Company v. South Carolina,144: U. S. 550,
562. And that the construction should be such as will effectuate the legislative intention, avoiding, if possible, an unjust
or absurd conclusion, is also well settled.
In Sioux City & St. Paul Railroadv. United States, 159
U. S. 349, 360, it was said by Mr. Justice Harlan, speaking
for the court: "If the terms of an act of Congress, granting
public lands, 'admit of different meanings, one of extension
and the other of limitation, they must be accepted in a sense
favorable to the grantor. And if rights claimed under the
government be set up against it, they must be so clearly
defined that there can be no question of the purpose of Congress to confer them.' Leavenworth &c. Railroadv. United
States, 92 U. S. 733, 740. Acts of this character must receive
such construction 'as will carry out the intent of Congress,
however difficult it might be to give full effect to the language used if the grants were by instruments of private conveyance.' Winona & St. Peter Railroadv. Barney, 113 U. S.
618, 625. ' Nothing is better settled,' this court has said, ' than
that statutes should receive a sensible construction such as
will effectuate the legislative intention, and, if possible, so as
to avoid an unjust or an absurd conclusion.' Lau Ow Bew v.
United States, 144 U. S. 47, 59. Giving effect to these rules
of statutory interpretation, we cannot suppose that Congress

OCTOBER TERI,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

intended that the railroad company should have the benefit of
more lands than it earned."
In the light of these principles we have no difficulty in arriving at the same result as that reached by the Secretary of
the Interior and by the Circuit Court.
The act declares that the grant is made "for the purpose of
aiding in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line
from Portland to Astoria, and from a suitable point of junction near Forest Grove to the Yainhill River, near McMinnville." This does not describe a road from Portland to the
Yamhill River, but a road from Portland to Astoria, and a
road expressly stated to be from a point of junction near
Forest Grove to the Yamhill River.
We are unable to see why any other than their usual meaning should be attributed to the words "point of junction."
Junction in the ordinary acceptation as applied to railroads is
the point or locality where two or more lines of railway meet.
Two lines of distinct companies, or separate roads of the same
company, or a main line and a branch road of the same company, may have points of union or meeting, styled junctions,
but this can hardly be predicated of a single continuous road
from one point to another. If the act had not used the word
"junction" and had defined the line as running from Portland
to Astoria, and to McMinnville via Forest Grove, there would
be more force in the suggestion that Forest Grove was a point
of bifurcation of one road rather than a point of junction of
two roads, but the act was not couched in those terms, and
the word1 "junction" cannot be rejected, or wrested from its
obvious meaning.
As the road from Portland to Astoria and the road from
Forest Grove to McMinnville were to be constructed by and
belong to one company and together constituted a single
enterprise, they were naturally spoken of as one railroad, as,
in that sense, they were. But this is of no special significance
in the present inquiry, which is whether, in view of the language of the act and the purposes to be accomplished, a main
road and a branch road were provided for; in aid of which the
lands were granted subject to the adjustment applicable to two

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD.

541

Opinion of the Court.

roads. And the general rule is that "words importing the
singular number may extend and be applied to several persons
or things- words importing the plural number may include
the singular," as provided in the first section of the Revised
Statutes.
Nor are we impressed with the argument that the title of
the act compels to another conclusion. The title is: "An act
granting lands to aid in the construction of a railroad and
telegraph line from Portland to Astoria and McMinnville in
the State of Oregon." The text of the act is: "That for the
purpose of aiding in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from Portland to Astoria, and from a suitable
point of junction near Forest Grove to the Yamhill River near
M Minnville in the State of Oregon," the grant is made.
Insert the comma after Astoria in the title, which appears
after that word in the act (and for the purpose of arriving at
the true meaning of a statute, courts read with such stops as
are manifestly required, Hammock v. Loan & Ti'ust Co., 105
U. S. 77, 84; United States v. Lacher, 134 U. S. 624, 628), and
the title is sufficiently comprehensive to fairly describe a road
from Portland to Astoria, and a road to McMinnville, as the
subject of the act. The title is no part of an act and cannot
enlarge or confer powers, or control the words of the act
unless they are doubtful or ambiguous. United States v.
Fisher,2 Cranch, 358, 386; Yazoo & )iti8sissippi Railroad
v. Thomas, 132 U. S. 174, 188. The ambiguity must be in
the context and not in the title to render the latter of any
avail.
And so of the title of the act of January 31, 1885. That
title is: "An act to declare forfeiture of certain lands granted
to aid in the construction of a railroad in Oregon," and the
granting act is referred to in the text by its title. We do
not regard the use of the singular number as persuasive of
the intention of Congress that, in the adjustment of the grant
as affected by the forfeiture, the fact that a main road and a
branch road were provided for should be ignored.
It seems to us quite clear that a main road was to be built
from Portland, the principal city of Oregon, situated on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Columbia River, to Astoria, a port on the Paeific Ocean at
the mouth of that river, a distance of some one hundred and
twenty-eight and a half miles, being over one hundred miles
beyond Forest Grove; and a branch from Forest Grove to
McMinnville, a distance somewhat exceeding twenty-one miles.
It is not denied that, as stated in the opinion of the Circuit
Court, "four fifths of the line of road from Portland to
Astoria. traversed a rough and wholly unsettled district, but
one known to be rich in timber, and believed to be in iron and
coal, with considerable areas of agricultural land," while the
twenty-one miles from Forest Grove to McMinnville ran
through "the heart of the Willamette Valley and through the
oldest settled portion of the country." The opening up to
settlement of unoccupied and inaccessible'territory and the
establishmeht of railroad communication between Portland
and Astoria by the construction of the main line were the
obvious inducements to and the primary objects of the grant,
and the construction of the branch, though included in the
act, was subordinate and subsidiary. The line, both main and
branch, was wholly within the State of Oregon, and we cannot assume that if the promoters had sought aid merely for' a
road running from Portland by way of 'Forest Grove to McMinnville, the application would have been granted.
The grant contemplated a main line which ran from Portland west to the point of junction and a branch from the point
of junction nearly south, substantially at right angles, and
devoted the lands north of the junction, not absorbed by the
road from Portland to that point, to the building of the road
to the north; and while the c6mpany was left free to construct
parts of the road as might suit its convenience, its action could
not change the effect of the grant or control its administration
to the contrary of the manifest intention of Congress.
On the twentieth of May, A.D. 1871, a map of definite lo-

cation was filed with the Secretary of the Interior, described
in the certificate of the company's officers as showing "the
location of the Oregon Central railroad from the city of Portland, Oregon, to the Yamhill River near M cMinnville a dis-.
tance of forty-seven and three fourths (4'71) miles, and also

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILROAD.

543

Opinion of the Court.

from a junction near Forest Grove towards Astoria to a
point one mile north of the summit of the range of hills
dividing the Tualatin from the Nehalem Valley, a distance
of 20 miles, as definitely fixed in compliance with said act of
Congress."
Subsequently the company certified a map of definite location of the road between Astoria and Castor Creek (the westera point in the preceding map), which was filed with the
Secretary of the Interior, and transmitted by him, February
2, 1872, to the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
The lands were withdrawn under both these maps.
The first section of constructed road from Portland twenty
miles west to Hillsboro was accepted February 16, 1872. The
second section was accepted June 23, 1876. This was a section
of 27J miles from Hillsboro via Forest Grove to McMinnville,
constructed on a curve thus described by counsel for the railroad companies: "The line of this section of the road runs from
the twentieth mile post for about two miles (for the most part
upon indicated curves) to a point a little south of the Portland
base line, and thence extends west about two miles-almost
entirely upon a tangent until it passes Cornelius -to a point
about two miles east of Forest Grove, when it begins to curve
upon a radius of 8564 feet (equal to about- 1.6 miles) until it
reaches about a southwest by west direction, in which it runs
upon a tangent 8956 feet (equal to about 1.7 miles), passing
the town of Forest Grove at a distance of about one halt or
three quarters of a mile; from the end of this tangent it again
curves until it reaches a southwesterly direction, and then proceeds on southerly by various curves to the Yamhill River."
If these maps of definite location and the construction of
the road from Hillsboro to MeMinnville via Forest Grove in
the manner described are to be regarded as an attempt to
make a part of the main road from Portland to Astoria and
the branch d continuous and single road from Portland to
McMinnville, eliminating Astoria altogether, and to entitle
the company to claim all the lands within the quadrant by
reason of the construction of the railroad on the above stated
curve, we can only say that that attempt was unsuccessful,

OCTOBER TERMK, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

and the rights of the government remained unaffected by the
course pursued by the company.
It is forcibly argued that the acceptance of the completed
section from Hillsboro to McMinnville amounted to a construction by the Secretary of the Interior of the granting act as
providing for one continuous railroad from Portland via Forest
Grove to McMinnville. But we cannot accede to this view.
At the time of that acceptance the entire line of both main
and branch roads had been definitely located and the lands
withdrawn. It could not be presumed that all the lands would
not be earned or that a forfeiture would be declared. Still less
can it be supposed that it occurred to the Secretary that what
the company was apparently doing for its own convenience
was being done with the design of committing the Department
to the recognition of the untenable position that the lands
within the quadrant passed by virtue of the building of the
road to Mchiinnville. This was a matter not then before the
Secretary for determination, and when it did arise was othervise disposed of.
And this is true as respects the approval of the first map of
definite location. Such approval was diverso intuitu andt
should be given no effect as contemporaneous construction.
Under that location lands were withdrawn from Portland to
Castor Creek, as well as to McMinnville, and the overlap at
the cast of the road to McMinnville was inevitable and was
not a loss to be made up from lands belonging to other parts
of the grant.
In the view we take of the grant the termini of the main
road were Portland and Astoria, and of the branch, the junction and MeIinnville. Lands lying north of a line drawn at
right angles with the branch at its northern terminus were
not within the grant made in aid of the branch. Lands lying
west of a line~drawn at right ongles with the main road at
the junction were not within the grant for the main road east
thereof.
As heretofore remarked, however, some of the lands lying
east of the quadrant were not only coterminous with the uncompleted portion of the main road beyond Forest Grove, but

UNITED STATES v. OREGON &c. RAILZOAD.

545

Opinion of the Court.

were embraced within the limits of the completed road from
Portland to the junction, and, therefore, Congress, in the act
of forfeiture, was careful to save those lands from its operation.
There is nothing in the language used from which it can properly be concluded that Congress intended to accept the theory
of the railroad companies that the circuitous route adopted in
construction entitled them to the lands in the quadrant because
thereby brought within the grant, or to do anything more
than so qualify the phraseology as to prevent an unintended
forfeiture. So far as the act operated as a legislative interpretation, it was in harmony with the granting act as subsequently
construed by Secretary Lamar, and cannot be treated as proceeding on the theory of prior construction which we do not
agree had been had. And although the failure of the company to build beyond Forest Grove towards Astoria left but
one road, and that from Portland to McMinnville, it would
be quite inadmissible to make the defeat of the primary object of Congress the basis of imputing to that body the intention of narrowing the forfeiture declared for noncompliance
with the conditions imposed.
In United States v. Union Pacific Railway, 148 U. S. 562,
the question before us was not presented. The decision there
was controlled by the determination that the whole line was
a continuous main line and that the grant was not cut in two
by one company being authorized to contract with another
for the construction of part of the line and a proportionate
share of the grant. The whole line was built. Here the
grant for building the line from Portland beyond Forest
Grove to Astoria became fixed by the location of the road as
(lid the grant in aid of the road from the junction to McMinnville. The main line was not constructed beyond the junction.
The lands in controversy were not adjacent to nor coterminous with the branch road between lines drawn perpendicularly to its termini; were not coterminous with the road from
Portland to the junction; and were donated to build the
portion of the main line which was abandoned. The ruling in the former case has no decisive bearing under the facts
in this.
VOL. cLxxv-35

OCTOBER TERMI, 1896.
Syllabus.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeale is reversed; the
decree of the Circuit Court is afirned, and the cause remanded to that court accordingly.
IMR.

JUSTICE FIELD

and MR.

JUSTICE

SHIRAs dissented.

ROWE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 439. Submitted October 22, 1S96. -Decided

November 80, 1896.

On the trial of a person indicted for murder, the defence being that the act
was done in self-defence, the evidence on both sides was to the effect
that the deceased used language of a character offensive to the accused;
that the accused thereupon kicked at or struck at the deceased, hitting
him lightly, and then stepped back and leaned against a counter; that
the deceased immediately attacked the accused with a knife, cutting his
face; and that the accused then shot and killed his assailant. The trial
court in its charge pressed upon the jury the proposition that a person
who has slain another cannot urge in justification of the killing a necessity produced by his own unlawful acts. Held, that this principle had
no application in this case; that the law did not require that the accused
should stand still and permit himself to be cut to pieces, under the penalty that, if he met the unlawful attack upon him, and saved his own life
by taking that of his assailant, he would be guilty of manslaughter; that
under the circumstances the jury might have.found that the accused,
although in the wrong when he kicked or kicked at the deceased, did not
provoke the fierce attack made upon him by the latter. with a knife in
any sense that would deprive him of the right of self-defence against
such attack; and that the accused was entitled, so far as his right to resist the attack was concerned, to remain where he was, and to do whatever was necessary, or what he had grounds to believe at the time was
necessary, to save his life, or to protect him from great bodily harm.
If a person, under the provocation of offensive Ianguage; assaults the
speaker personally, but in such a way as to show that there is no intention to do him serious bodily harm, and then retires under such circumstances as show that he does not intend to do anything more, but in
good faith withdraws from further contest, his right of self-defence is
restored when the person assaulted, in violation of law pursues him with
a deadly weapon and seeks to take his life, or do him great bodily harm.

