MAISH v. ARIZONA.

599

Syllabus.

MAISH v. ARIZONA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 89. Submitted October 29, 1896. -. Decided December 21, 1896.
In proceedings in Arizona to enforce the collection of taxes assessed upon
real estate, a printed copy of the delinquent list, instead of the original
filed in the office of the county treasurer, was offered in evidence. To
the introduction of this objection was made, but not upon the ground
that the original was the best evidence, or that the copy offered was not
an exact copy. In this court it was for the first time objected that
the list, as filed in this case, was not a copy of the original. Held,
that this court would not disturb the judgment of the court below on
such technical grounds, apparently an afterthought.
For the hearing of the objections of the appellants against the assessment
of the tax the court convened on the 14th of March. The notice published
by the tax collector was that the sale would begin on the 20th of March.
On March 15 a judgment was entered directing the sale on the 20th of all
the property, to which no objection had been filed. As to those parties
making objections (and included among them were the present appellants)
the case was set down for hearing at a subsequent day, and a trial then
had; but the judgment was not entered until the 7th day of May, 1892,
and the order was to sell on the 13th day of June. Held, that the purpose
and intention of the act being the collection of taxes, but only of such
taxes as ought to be collected, and judicial determination having been
invoked to determine what taxes were justly due, the fact that the court
took time for the examination and consideration of this question did not
oust it of jurisdiction.
In Arizona the delinquent tax list is made by law prima facie evidence that
the taxes charged therein are due against the property, as well the unpaid
taxes for past years as those for the current year.
It was the intention of the legislature of Arizona, and a just intention, that
no property should escape its proper share of the burden of taxation by
means of any defect in the tax proceedings, and that, if there should
happen to be such defect, preventing for the time being the collection of
the taxes, steps pight be taken in a subsequent year to place them again
upon the tax roll and collect them.
The testimony does not sustain the contention that the board of equalization raised the value of appellants' property arbitrarily and without
notice or evidence.
A party in possession under a perfect Mexican grant, that is, a grant absolute and unconditional in form, specific in description of the land, passing a certain, definite and unconditional title from the Mexican govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement o6 the Case.
ment to the grantee, has a possessory and equitable right sufficient to
sustain taxation, although the grant may not have been confirmed.
A court cannot strike down a levy of taxes said to be for the payment of
interest on bonds illegally issued in violation of statutory law, without a
full disclosure of all the indebtedness, the time when it arose, and the
ciicumstances under which it was created.
To warrant the setting aside of an assessment as unfair and partial, something more than an error of judgment must be shown, something indicating fraud or misconduct; as matters of that kind are left largely to
the discretion and judgment of the assessing and equalizing board, and
if it has acted in good faith its judgment cannot be overthrown.

THIS was a suit in the District Court of the First Judicial
District of the Territory of Arizona, sitting in and for the
county of Pima, to recover delinquent taxes. Several parties
were included as defendants. A decree was rendered May 7,
1892, establishing the taxes and foreclosing the tax liens.
The appellants, after a motion for a new trial, carried the
case to the Supreme Court of the Territory, by which, on
January 17, 1894, the decree was affirmed, 37 Pac. Rep. 370,
and thereupon an appeal was taken to this court.
These judicial proceedings to collect delinquent taxes were
authorized by statute. Rev. Stats. Arizona, 1887, ยง 2684,
2685, 2686, 2687 and 2688. The first of these sections provides that the tax collector on the third Monday of December
in each year shall prepare and file in the office of the county
treasurer a-list of delinquent taxes. Section 2685 requires
him on or before the first Monday in February thereafter to
publish such delinquent tax list, with a notice that he will
apply to the District Court of the county at the next ensuing
term thereof for judgment. Section 2686 directs the district
attorney, upon the completion of the publication, to file a
complaint in the District Court setting forth the fact of the
delinquent list, its publication and the notice, and praying for
judgment and decree against the property described in said
list for the taxes assessed thereon. It further provides:
"The delinquent list shall beprimafacieevidence that the
taxes therein are due against the property described in said
list. Upon said publication and adiertisement being made
and the filing of said complaint, the said District Court shall

MAISH v. ARIZONA.
Opinion of the Court.

acquire full and complete jurisdiction over the lands, real
estate and property described and contained in said delinquent list for all purposes whatever necessary to enable the
said court to carry out the purposes and intention of this act."
Section 2687 contains certain general provisions in reference to the proceedings. Section 2688 is as follows:
"The court shall examine said list, and if defence (specifying in writing, the particular cause of objection) be offered by
any person interested in any of said property, to the entry of
judgment against the same, the court shall hear and determine
the matter in a summary manner; without pleadings, and
shall pronounce judgment as the right of the case may be.
The court shall give judgment for such taxes and special
assessments, interest, penalties and costs as shall appear to be
due, and such judgment shall be considered as a several judgment against each parcel of property, or part of the same, for
each kind of tax or special assessment included therein; and
the court shall direct the clerk to make out and enter an order
for the sale of such property against which judgment is given,
which shall be substantially in the following form."
31r. Charle8 Weston Wright for appellants.
31r. William Hi. Barnes for appellee.

MR. JUsT1cE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The statute, as will be seen, authorizes any one interested
in any of the property to defend against the taxes sought to
be charged thereon, "specifying in writifig the particular
cause of objection," and requires the court, when such defence
is made, to "hear and determine the matter in a summary
manner, without pleadings," and to "pronounce judgment,
as the right of the case may be." The statute also provides
that the delinquent tax list is Primafacie evidence that the
"taxes therein are due against the property."
The appellants filed ten objections to the taxes charged

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

against their property, one of which was that "1
said delinquent
list as published and filed herein is not a copy of the original."
It appears from the bill of exceptions that on the hearing
before the court the printed copy of the delinquent list, and
not that filed in the office of the county treasurer, was offered
and received in evidence. To the introduction of this printed
copy appellants made several objections, but not that the original was the best evidence or should be first offered, or that
the printed list was not an exact copy of the original. It
would seem from the findings, and the rulings made by the
trial court, as well as from the motion for a new trial, that
the published delinquent list was treated as though it were
tie original; and that in the Supreme Court of the Territory
was the question for the first time distinctly made that no
judgment could be rendered except upon the evidence furnished by the original list. Be that as it may, and conceding
without deciding that properly in an action like this the original list should be offered in evidence, nevertheless we are of
opinion that the appellants cannot now take advantage of this.
They did not in their objections point out wherein the delinquent list was incorrectly published, and they made no objection to the admission in evidence of such published list on the
ground that the original had not first been offered or that
the published list was different from the original. It might be
that in the description of other property, or the taxes charged
thereon, there were such mistakes as to defeat the proceedings
as to such property, or in reference to their own property and
the taxes charged thereon that there was some trifling inaccuracv so as to make it true that the published list was not a
copy of the original, but it would not follow therefrom that
they were entitled to a judgment. De minimia 7on uowat lex
might uphold the publication. As they were called upon in
the challenge of these taxes to point out specifically their
objections, and as they did not show wherein the published
list differed from the original, we cannot assume that the
variance, if any there were, was sufficient to affect their substantial rights. While in a general sense it may be true that
in such a proceeding the Territory is the plaintiff and is called

MAISH v. ARIZONA.
Opinion of the Court.

upon to prove its case, yet the presumptions which by the
statute attach to the regularity of the proceedings, and the
duty cast upon the objectors to specifically point out the defects, forbid our disturbing the judgment upon such technical
ground, one apparently an afterthought and not affecting the
substantial rights of the appellants.
Again, it is insisted that the court had lost its power to
enter judgment by reasbn of lapse of time. The facts upon
which this contention is based are these: Section 2685, which
provides for a publication of the delinquent list, requires that
the collector append to and publish with the list, in addition
to the notice of application for judgment, a notice that on the
Monday next succeeding the day fixed by law for the commencement of the term of the District Court the property
will be sold. Section 2690 directs the clerk of the District
Court to give a duly certified copy of the judgment to the
tax collector as the process under which the property is to be
sold. Section 2693 requires the collector to attend on the
day named in the notice, expose the property for sale, and
continue the sale from day to day until all the property is
sold, completing the sale within twenty days from the commencement thereof. Section 2687 makes .special provisions
for action by the court at an ensuing term, but is inapplicable
to the questions here presented.
The court convened on the14th of March. The notice published by the tax collector was that the sale would begin on
the 20th of March. On March 15 a judgment was entered
directing the sale on the 20th of all the property, to which no
objection had been iled. As to those parties making objections (and included among them were the present appellants)
the case was set down for hearing at.a subsequent day, and a
trial then had; but the judgment was not entered until the
'Tth day of May, 1892, and the order was to sell on the 13th
day of June. Now the argument is that as this is a special statutory proceeding its exact terms must be complied
with or the court loses its jurisdiction; the effect of which as
applied to a case like the present would be that if the objectors
present questions which the court cannot conscientiously de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

cide at the moment and takes time for consideration, it may
thereby lose its jurisdiction to act at all. We do not so understand the law. The District Court is one of general jurisdiction. Section 2686 provides that upon the completion of the
publication and the filing of the complaint the "court shall
acquire full and complete jurisdiction" over the property for
all purposes whatever necessary to enable it to carry out the
purposes and intention of the act. The special provisions, to
which we have heretofore referred, will doubtless guide in all
cases in which no contest is made. They were evidently
designed to secure prompt action on the part of the tax collector, as well as the court, and if no objections be made and
a delinquent tax list, correct in form and duly published, is
presented there need be no delay in entering the judgment.
But inasmuch as this proceeding is one in a court of general
jurisdiction it would require very precise and prohibitory language in the statute in order to withhold from. that court the'
ordinary functions and powers of such a tribunal, among
which is not only the right but the duty of giving such full
consideration to all questions presented as its judgment determines is necessary. No such prohibitory language is found.
The purposes and intention of the act are the collection of
taxes, but only of such taxes as ought to be collected, and
judicial determination is invoked to determine what taxes are
justly due; and that the court takes time for the examination
and consideration of this question does not oust it of jurisdiction.
Another objection is to the entry on this delinquent tax list
of taxes for the year 1889. It appears that on the 21st of
September, 1891, the board of supervisors adopted a resolution, reciting in substance that the property described therein
(which included the property of appellants) was duly assessed
fbr the taxes of the year 1889; that it became delinquent;
that a suit to recover the taxes was duly brought, in which it
was finally adjudged that the publication was insufficient, and
that the taxes could not be recovered in such action; and that
they had not been paid, and directing that the property be
reassessed, and the taxes for the year 1889 be relevied upon it,

MAISH v. ARIZONA.
Opinion of the Court.

and that the clerk insert such taxes on the tax roll for the
current year. This was done under authority of an act of the
legislature (Sess. Laws, 1891, p. 146), which reads as follows:
"SEc. 1. Whenever any tax or assessment, or any part
thereof, levied on real or personal property, whether heretofore or hereafter levied shall have been set aside or determined
to be illegal or void, or the collection thereof prevented by the
judgment .of any court, or wherever any tax collector shall'
have been prevented by injunction from collecting or returning any such tax or assessment in consequence of any irregularity or error in any of the proceedings in the assessment of
such real or personal property, the levy of such tax, or the
proceedings for its collection, or of any erroneous or imperfect
description of such property, or of any omission to comply
with any form or step required by law, or the including of
any illegal addition with the lawful tax, or for any other,
cause; then, if the real or personal property was properly
taxable or assessable, if it be not a proper case to collect by a
resale of the property, such tax, or so much thereof as shall.
not have been collected and as may be taxable or assessable
thereto, may be reassessed or relevied upon such property at
any time within four years after such judgment or the dissolution of the injunction, if any was granted as above stated;
and the proper county board of supervisors shall make an
order directing the same to be reassessed upon such property;
and the clerk of the board of supervisors of said county shall
insert the same in the tax roll, opposite such description of
said property, in a separate column, -as an additional tax, and
the same shall be collected as a part of the tax for the year
when so placed on the tax roll, in the same manner and with
like penalties as other taxes are collected."
No other evidence was offered by the Territory than the
delinquent tax list and the above resolution. It is contended
that this evidence is insufficient; that the board of supervisors
have no power to act except upon the existence of certain
precedent conditions which must be affirmatively shown; and,
farther, that if this be not so, the recital in the resolution, of
itself, shows that there was no sufficient warrant for charging

OCTOBER TERE, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

these taxes against the property. This contention cannot be
sustained. The delinquent tax list is made primn facie evidence that the taxes charged therein are due against the
property. This means all tho taxes; not only those for the
current year, but those for past years, and this tax list was,
therefore; yrina facie evidence, of the rightfulness of the
charge against the property for the taxes of the prior year.
If there were any valid reason why the property should not
be subjected to those taxes it was the duty of the objectors to
state the reason and give evidence in support thereof. While
it may be, as counsel insist, that the section quoted is "unhappily worded" and "certainly crude," yet its meaning is
obvious. The clauses "the collection thereof prevented by
the judgment of any court" and "if the real or personal
property was properly taxable or assessable, if it be not. a
proper case to collect by a resale of the property, such tax
may be reassessed or relevied upon such property at
any time within four years after such judgment," mean that
whenever a suit has been instituted in a court, as provided by
the statute heretoforo referred to, and fails to become operative through the judgment of the court, then, if the property
is properly taxable and no resale can be had without further
action of the court, the board of supervisors may place the
property upon the tax roll of the current year to.be collected
as other taxes of that year.
From the recital in this resolution, it appears that certain
proceedings for the collection of taxes for 1889 failed by reason of the judgment of the court, declaring the publication
insufficient. That put an end to the suit. It was not a defect in the process issued after and upon the judgment, which,
perhaps, might be obviated by the issue of new process, but
a failure of the court to render judgment because of prior
defects. Under those circumstances the power and the duty
of the board of supervisors to renew efforts to collect such
taxes were given and imposed by this section, and the procedure pyrovided was a reassessment and the placing of the
taxes on the tax roll for the current year. This was done and
nothing more; and no evidence was offered to show that those

MAISH v. ARIZONA.
Opinion of the Court.

taxes were not properly chargeable upon the property, or
that they had ever been paid. Evidently it was the intention
of the legislature, and a just intention, that no property should
escape its proper share of the burden of taxation by means
of any defect in the tax proceedings, and that, if there should
happen to be such defect, preventing for the time being the
collection of the taxes, steps might be taken in a subsequent
year to place them again upon the tax roll and collect them.
Again, it is contended that the board of equalization raised
the value of the property of appellants arbitrarily and without notice or evidence. But the testimony does not sustain
this contention. The only evidence in respect to the matter
was that of a witness, T. A. Judd, who testified that the board
of equalization added six per cent to the value of stock cattle;
but nowhere does it appear that this was done without proof
of the value, or without due notice to all parties interested.
We cannot assume, in the face of the _rima facie evidence
furnished by the delinquent tax list, that any official failed in
his duty.
Another objection is that part of the property held to be
subject to taxation was an unconfirmed Mexican land grant.
It was admitted on the hearing in the District Court that
certain tracts of land in the list described were "each Mexican
land grants, and that the same are not and have never been
confirmed." Upon this it is strongly insisted that no title
passes until confirmation; that it may yet be adjudged that
these lands are the property of the'United States, and that
until that question is definitely decided the lands are not subject to taxation. The cases relied upon are Colorado Company v. Commissioners, 95 U. S. 259; Botiller v. Dominguez,
130 U. S. 238, and Astiazaranr v. Santa Rita Zand & Mining
Co., 148 U. S. 80. In the first of these cases a Mexican land
grant, covering some five hundred thousand acres, was confirmed by Congress to the extent of eleven square leagues,
with a proviso that there should be a survey of those leagues,
and that the confirmation should not become legally effective
until the claimant had paid the cost thereof ; and it was held,
following Railway #ompany v. Precott, 16 Wall. 603, and

OCTOBER TERIVI, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Railway Company v. MSkane, 22 Wall. 444, that until the
survey fees had been paid the United States retained such an
interest in the land as to exempt it from taxation. In the
second the decision was that no title to land in California depending upon Spanish or Mexican grants could be of any
validity until submitted to and confirmed by the board provided for that purpose under the act of March 3, 1851, c. 41,
9 Stat. 631, but that decision was based upon ยง 13 of the act,
which expressly provided that "all lands the claims to which
shall not have been presented to the said commissioners within
two years after the date of this act, shall be deemed, held
and considered as part of the public domain of the United
States." In the last of these cases it was held that under the
acts of July 22, 1854, c. 103, 10 Stat. 308, and July 15, 1870,
c. 292, 16 Stat. 291, 304, a private claim to land in Arizona
under a Mexican grant, which had been reported to Congress
by the surveyor general of the Territory, could not, before
Congress had acted on that report, be contested in the courts
of justice. In other words, the validity of such claim could
only be determined in the particular tribunal which had been
provided for such purpose.
It must be borne in mind that in the record before us these
land grants are not otherwise described than as Mexican land
grants. For aught that appears, they may have been "perfect grants," as they are sometimes called; that is, grants
absolute and unconditional in form, specific in description of
the land, passing a title from the -Mexican government to the.
grantee as certain, definite and unconditional as a patent to
a similar tract from the United States : and not "imperfect
grants" ; that is, grants of so many acres or leagues of land
within large exterior boundaries, and based upon conditions
precedent, and creating only an inchoate though equitable
title to some as yet indefinite and undescribed tract. These
perfect grants vest at least an equitable title in the owner.
The general rule of international law is that a mere transfer
of sovereignty over a territory has no effect upon vested rights
of property therein; and whatever provision may be made
in the treaty or by the law of the nation receiving the trans-

MAISH v. ARIZONA.
Opinion of the Court.

fer for purposes of identification, such provision is not to be
considered as tantamount to either a denial or a suspension
of these vested rights. Certainly a party in possession of a
tract of land under a perfect grant has a possessory and equitable right which is of value, and that is enough to sustain
taxation. The revenue act of the Territory (Rev. Stats. Arizona, ยง 2630) provides "that all property of every kind and
nature whatsoever within this Territory.shall be subject to
taxation," and ยง 2631 defines the term "real estate," as used in
the act, "to mean and include the oxnership of, or claim to,
or possession of or right of possession to any land within the
Territory."
It has been held that possessory rights founded upon mere
occupation and improvements upon government land, though
invalid as against the government, may be made the subject
of barter and sale, and may be treated under the laws of the
State and Territory as having all the attributes of property.
Lamb v. Davenport, 18 Wall. 307; Bishop of .Nesqually v.
Gibbon, 158 U. S. 155, 168.
In Central Pacific Railroad v. Nevada, 162 U. S. 512, it was
decided that the possessory claim of the railroad company to
lands within the State of Nevada was subject to taxation,
notwithstanding the fact that the lands might thereafter be
determined to be mineral lands, and so excluded from the
operation of the railroad grant. See also )ZVothern Pacific
Railroad Company v. Patterson,154 U. S. 130, 132. Within
the reasoning of these decisions, as it does not appear that
these lands were not held by perfect grants under the laws
of Mexico, or that they were' not in the possession of the
appellants, and covered with valuable improvements, it must
be held that the objection to their taxation cannot be sustained.
Another objection is that a levy of fifty cents on the hundred dollars included in these taxes was made solely for the
purpose of raising money to pay interest on bonds, and it is
insisted that the bonds for which the levy was made were
void under the act of July 30, 1886, c. 818, 24 Stat. 170, which
prohibits a county from becoming indebted to an amount exceeding four per cent of the value of the taxable property
VOL. CLVI v-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

within the county. The bonds, which were in excess of the
four per cent, were issued on June 30, 1887, and subsequently
to the passage of the act. But, as is shown in the testimony,
they were funding bonds. For aught that appears, the real
indebtedness of the county had been created long before the
passage of the act, and these funding bonds may have been,
and probably were, nothing but simply a change in the form
of the indebtedness. *Even if it were regarded as a new indebtedness, it would not follow that the whole series was
invalid, for the circumstances of the transaction might, if
fully disclosed, show that even as new indebtedness they were
valid for a certain amount, that is, an amount equal to four
per cent of the value of the county's taxable property. It
cannot be that, in this indirect way, and .witbout a full disclosure of all the facts concerning the indebtedness, the time
when it arose and the circumstances under which it was
created, a court can strike down a levy for the payment of
interest on the bonds.
A final objection is that the assessment was grossly unfair,
and that there was a fraudulent discrimination in favor of the
Southern Pacific Railroad Company. It appears that the
assessment of ordinary range cattle was fixed by the territorial board at $7.42, while one witness testified that their value
was from $6 to $6.50 per head. It also appears that the territorial board valued the railroad property at $6811.14 per
mile, while there was testimony that to duplicate the roadbed
and track alone would cost from $21,000 to $22,000 per mile;
and appellants offered to prove that the railroad c6mpany
stated to the board that if the valuation was fixed at about
the rate which was fixed it would pay the taxes; if much
higher, it would .resist collection in the courts; and that the
board concluded that it was better to get some taxes out of
the railroad company than none, and therefore fixed the valuation at the sum named.
There is nothing tending to show that the board, in fixing
the value of cattle at $7.42, acted fraudulently or with any
wrongful intent, or that that valuation was not the result of
its deliberate judgment upon sufficient consideration and

MAISII v. ARIZONA.
Opinion of the Court.

abundant evidence, and it would be strange, indeed, if an
assessment could be set aside because a single witness is found
whose testimony is that the valuation was excessive. No
assessment could be sustained if it depended upon the fact
that all parties thought the valuation placed by the assessing
board was correct. Something more than an error of judgment must be shown, something indicating fraud or misconduct. Neither is the fact that an officer of the railroad
company came before the board and declared its willingness
to pay taxes on a certain valuation and its intention to resist
the payment of taxes on any higher valuation sufficient to
impute fraudulent conduct to the board, although it finally
fixed the valuation at the sum named by the railroad company. It appears from the testimony of one of the members
of the equalization board that it was guided largely by the
valuation placed in other States and Territories upon railroad
property, and that from such valuation, as well as from that
given by the railroad company, it made the assessment at
something like the average of the valuation of railroads in the
various States and Territories named. It is unnecessary to
determine whether this board erred in its judgment as to the
value of this property, whether it would not have been better
to have made further examination and taken testimony as to
the cost of construction, present condition, etc. Matters of
that kind are left largely to the discretion and judgment of
the assessing and equalizing board, and if it has acted in good
faith its judgment cannot be overthrown. Pittsburgk, Cineinnati &c. Railway v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421-435.
These are all the matters presented by counsel. We find
in them nothing which justifies us in disturbing the judgment
of the court below, and it is
Affirmed.

