MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. NEBRASKA.

403

Statement of the Case.

amended complaint substantially counted upon the same
wrong charged in the original complaint, to wit, a neglect
of duty causing ifijury to plaintiff while travelling as a passenger, upon a ticket, irt a train of cars over a described line
of railroad, and between specified stations, it results that the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appels was right, and it is

Affirmed.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
NEBRASKA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASRA.
No. 1. Argued March 4, 1696.-Decided November 80, 1896.

The taking by a State of the private property of one person or corporation,
without the owner's consent, for the private use of another, is not due
process of law, and is a violation of the Fourteenth Article of Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
A statute of a State, by which, as construed by the Supreme Court of the
State, a board of transportation is authorized to require a railroad corporation, which has permitted the erection of two elevators by private
persons on its right of way at a station, to grant upon like terms and
conditions a location upon that right of way to other private persons in
the neighborhood, for the purpose of erecting thereon a third elevator,
in which to store their grain from time to time, is a taking of private
property of the railroad corporation for a private use, in violation of
the Fourteenth Article of Amendment of the Constitution of the United

States.

TuIs was a writ of error to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska, awarding a writ of
mandamus to compel the Missouri Pacific Railway Company,
a corporation of Nebraska, to comply with an order of the
Nebraska State Board of Transportation, which directed the
company to grant to John W. Hollenbeckand others the right
and privilege of erecting an elevator upon the grounds of the
railway company at its station at Elmwood.
By the "constitution of Nebraska of 1875, art. 11, see. 4,
"Railways heretofore constructed or that may hereafter be

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

constructed in this State are hereby declared public highways,
and shall be free to all persons for the transportation of their
persons and property thereon, under such regulations as may
be prescribed by law. And the legislature may from time to
time pass laws establishing reasonable maximum rates of
charges for the transportation of passengers and freight on
the different railroads in this State." And by sec. 7, "The
legislatur'e shall pass laws to correct abuses and prevent unjust
discrimination and extortion in all charges of express, telegraph and railroad companies in this State, and enforce such
laws by adequate penalties, to the extent, if necessary for that
purpose, of forfeiture of their property and franchises."
The State Board of Transportation was created by the
statute of Nebraska of March 31, 1887, c. 60, entitled "An
act to regulate railroads, prevent unjust discrimination," etc.,.
which took effect July 1, 1887, and was very similar to the
act of Congress of February 4, 1887, c. 104, regulating interstate
commerce (24 Stat. 379), except in applying only to commerce
within the State. The material provisions of the Nebraska
statute are copied in the margin.1
1 Snc. 1. The provisions of this act shall apply to any common carrier or
carriers engaged in the transportation of passengers or property by railroad, under a common control, management or arrangement for a continuous
carriage or shipment froii any point in the State of Nebraska to any other
point in said State. The term "railroad," as used in this act, shall include
the road in use by any corporation operating a railroad, whether owned or
operated under a contract, agreement or lease; and the term "transportation" shall include all instrumentalities of shipment or carriage. All charges
made for any service rendered or to be rendered in the transportation of
passengers or property as aforesaid, or in connection therewith, or for the
receiving, delivery, storage or handling of such property, shall be reasonable
and just; and every unjust and unreasonable charge for such service is
prohibited and declared to be unlawful.
SEC. 2. If any common carrier subject to the provisions of this act shall
directly or indirectly, by any special rate; rebate, drawback or other device,
charge, demand, collect or receive from any person or persons a greater
compensation .for any service Tendered or to be rendered in the transportation of passengers or property, subject to the provisions of this act, than It
charges, demands, collects or receives from any other person or persons for
doing for him or them a like and contemporaneous service in the transportation of a like kind of traffic under substantiallysimilar circumstances and

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. NEBRASKA.

405

Statement of the Case.

On October 9, 1889, there was presented to the Nebraska
State Board of Transportation a complaint in these terms:
"The petition and complaint of John W. Hlollenbeok,
Cyrelius Lemasters, John W. Miller, John Hayes, Charles
Hall and others, trading under the name of the Elmwood
Farmers' Alliance Number 365, of Elmwood, Cass County,
Nebraska, respectfully represents:
conditions, such common carriers shall be deemed guilty of unjust discrimination, which is hereby prohibited and declared to be unlawful:
SEc. 3. It shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject to the-provisions of this act to make or give any preference or advantage to any particular person, company, firm, corporation or locality, or any particular
description of traffic, in any respect whatsoever, or to subject any particular person, company, firm, corporation or locality, or any particular descripthin of traffic, to any prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever.
Eve6 common carrier subject to the provisions of this act shall, according
to their respective powers, afford all reasonable, proper and equal facilities
for the interchange of traffic between their respective lines, and for the receiving, forwarding and delivering of passengers and property to and from
their several lines and those connecting therewith, and shall not discriminate
in their rates and charges between such contracting lines; but this shall
not be construed as requiring any such common carrier to give the use of
its track or terminal facilities to another carrier engaged in like business.
Sa-c..17. Said board shall have the general supervision of all railroads
operated by steam in the State, and shall inquire into any neglect of duty,
oi violation of any of the laws of this State, by railroad corporations doing
business in this State, or by any officer, agent or employ6 of-any rail-'
road corporation doing business in this State ; and shall from time to
time carefully examine and inspect the condition of each railroad in this
State, and its equipments and manner of the conduct and management of
the same, with reference to the public safety, interest and conveniences. It
shall carefully investigate any complaint made in writing, and under oath,.
concerning any lack of facilities or accommodations furnished by any railroad corporation doing business in this State, for the comfort, convenience
and accommodation of individuals and the public; or any unjust discrimination against either any person, firm or corporation, or locality, either in rates,
facilities furnished, or otherwise; and whenever, in the judgment of said
board, any repairs are necessary upon any portion of the road, or upon any
stations, depots, station-houses or warehouses, or upon any of the rolling
stock of any railroad doing business in this State, or additions to, or any
changes in its rolling stock, stations, depots, station-houses or warehouses
are necessary in order to secure the safety, comfort, accommodation and,
convenience of the public and individuals, or any change in the mode ot
conducting its business or operating its road is reasonable and expedient

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

"First. That the'petitioners and complainants are now and
have for many years been extensive raisers of corn, wheat,
oats and other cereals, and that large quantities of said cereals
in order to promote the security and accommodation of the public, or in
order to prevent unjust discriminations against either persons or places, it
shall make a finding of the facts, and an order requiring said railroad corporation to make such repairs, improvements or additions to its rolling
stock, road, stations, depots or warehouses, or to make such changes, either
in the manner of conducting its business or in the manner of operating its
road, as such board shall deem proper, reasonable and expedient; and said
finding shall be entered in a record kept for that purpose, and said board
shall cause a copy of the same to be served on said railroad corporation by
any sheriff or constable in this State, in the same manner as a summons is
required to be served, and shall also transmit to the person, firm or corporation interested, a copy of the same. Said railroad corporation shall,
within ten days after being served with a copy of said finding and order,
show cause, if any it has, why it should not comply with said order, by
filing with said'board an answer, verified in the same manner as pleadings
of fact in the district court are required to be verified. If no answer shalt
be filed as aforesaid, then such finding and order shall be final and conclusive as against said railroad corporation. Upon the filing of any answer as
provided for in this section, the said board shall set a day, not exceeding
thirty days from the date of the filing of such answer, for the hearing of
the matter, and shall notify said railroad company, or any other person-or
persons or corporations interested, of the time so fixed, and the place of
hearing the same; and shall carefully and fully investigate the matter, and
for that purpose may subpcuna witnesses, and compel their attendance, and
the productions of any books or papers, in the same manner as the courts
of law of this State may do. After a full investigation of the matter, said
board shall again make a finding of the facts, and make such an order as it
may deem just in the premises. If said railroad shall refuse or neglect to
comply with such order, the board shall order the attorney general, or the
county attorney of the proper county, to Institute a suit to compel such
railroad company to comply with such order; and it shall be the duty of
the attorney general,.or the county attorney of the proper county, at the
request of the board, or any person interested in any such order or finding,
to apply to the Supreme Court, or to the district court of any county
through or into which its line of road may run, in the name of the State
and on the relation of said board, for a writ of mandamus to compel such
railroad company to comply with such order; and upon the hearing of any
such cause such finding and order shall be, as against such railroad company, pribnafacie evidence of the reasonableness of such order, and of the
necessity of such repairs, changes, additions or improvements, or other
matters in such order required to be done or omitted. Nebraska Laws of
1887, pp. 541, 512, 555, 558; Compiled Statutes of 1895, pp. 779, 780, 785, 786.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. NEBRASKA.

407

Statement of the Case.

have been marketed in seasons past, and that large quantities
are now ready for the markets; that the several farms and
leaseholds of the petitioners are situated near Elmwood, in
Cass County, Nebraska.
"Second. That the Missouri Pacific Railway Company is a
common carrier, engaged in the transportation of passengers
and property by railroad under a common control, management or arrangement for a continuous carriage or shipment
through Elnwood aforesaid.
"Third. That the said defendant railroad company is the
owner of the right of way and depot grounds bordering the
main and side tracks of the defendant company, upon which
are located the station-houses and other shipping facilities connected with the transportation originating at or destined to
Elmwood station aforesaid; that the complainants aforesaid
did make a written application to the general manager of the
defendant company for a location, on the right of way at
Elmwood station aforesaid, for the erection of an elevator of
sufficient capacity to store from time to time the cereal products of the farm and leaseholds of complainants aforesaid, as
well as the products of other neighboring farms; that the
application aforesaid was refused by the general manager of
the defendant company aforesaid.
"Fourth. That the elevators now located on the right of
way of the defendants aforesaid at Elmwood station aforesaid
are during certain seasons of the year wholly insufficient in
affording a market for the cereals of the complainants and
others desirous of marketing their grain.
"Fifth. That the refusal of the defendant railroad company
to lease a location for an elevator as aforesaid is in contravention of the provisions of an act of the legislature entitled ' An
act to regulate railroads, prevent unjust discrimination,' etc.,
approved March 31, 1887, in that"(a.) The said refusal is an unjust discrimination.
"(b.) The said Missouri Pacific Railway Company, by the
refusal aforesaid, is subjecting the complainants aforesaid to
an undue and unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage, in
respect to traffic facilities, over other localities.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

"(c.) The said Missouri Pacific Railway Company, by the
refusal aforesaid, is giving an undue and unreasonable preference and advantage to Adams and Gilbert,.and Rells Brothers,
owners of the elevators located at Elmwood, on the right of
way of the defendant, by permission of the said Missouri
Pacific Railway Company.
"Wherefore the petitioners pray that the defendants may
be required to answer the charges herein, and that after due
hearing and investigation an order be made, commanding the
defendants to cease and desist from said violations of the act
of the legislature entitled- ' An act to regulate railroads,' etc.,
and for such other and further relief as the board of trar.sportation may deem necessary in the premises."
On the same day, the board of transportation issued an
order to the railway company to show cause why the prayer
of the complaint should not be granted; and on October 19,
1889, the railway company filed an answer, admitting its
ownership of the right of way and depot grounds at Elmwood, described in the complaint, and its refusal to allow the
petitioners to erect an elevator on the side track there, and
that there were two elevators now upon that track; and alleging that those two elevators were sufficient to transact the
business at Elmwood, and that there was no room there for
another elevator, .without purchasing an additional right of
way and extending its track, and that this was the only reason
for the refusal; and denying all the other allegations of the
complaint.
On December 13, 1889, the board of transportation, after
a hearing, at which evidence and arguments were submitted
on behalf of both parties, made the following findings and
order:
"This case and complaint having been heard by the board
upon the pleadings, evidence and argument of counsel, the
board finds as follows:
"First. That the defendant has all its side tracks within
the limits of .its right of way and depot grounds at the said
station of Elnwood.
"Second. That there are only two elevators at said station

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. NEBRASKA.

409

Statement of the Case.

of Elmwood, having the combined capacity of ten thousand
bushels, and that said elevators are insufficient to handle the
grain shipped at said station, and that thie owners and operators thereof have entered into a combination, and do combine
and fix the prices of grain, and prevent competition in the
purchase price thereof, and that there are not sufficient facilities for the handling and shipping of grain at said station.
"Third. That it is necessary for the convenience of the
public, patrons and shippers of grain of said railroad company,
that another elevator be erected and operated at said station.
"Fourth. That the defendant has permitted two elevators
to be erected upon its grounds at said station, and that the
same are now being operated, and that the said defendant has
refused to grant the same privilege to the complainant.
"Fifth. That an elevator is necessary for the shipment of
grain-by railroad, and that, by reason of the side track being
placed within the right of way and depot grounds, the plaintiff cannot ship grain without building its elevator upon the
grounds of the defendant.
"Sixth. That there is room upon the grounds of the defendant at said station for another elevator without materially
interfering with the operation of said railroad, and the building of the elevator by the plaintiffs upon said ground will not
materially affect the defendant in the use of its grounds, or be
an unreasonable burden to the defendant.
"Seventh. That granting of the right and privilege by the
defendant to the elevators now standing upon its right of way
and depot grounds at said station, and refusing to grant the
same right and privilege to the complainant, is an unjust and
unreasonable discrimination against the complainant, under
the circumstances of this case.
"Eighth. That the said respondent has discriminated against
the complainant, and that it has unlawfully mad? and given a
preference and advantage to Adams and Gilbert, and to Eells
Brothers, owners and operators of elevators at said station.
"It is therefore, by the Board of Transportation of the
State of N~ebraska, considered, adjudged and ordered that
the respondent, the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, shall

OCTOBER TERMI,

1896.

Statement of the Case.

cease and discontinue discriminating against the complainant,
and grant to said complainant the same facilities and privileges as granted to the owners and -operators of the elevators
now established at said station; And that said respondent,
within ten. days after the service of this order, grant and give
to the complainant, on like terms and conditions as granted
to the said Adams and Gilbert, and Eells Brothers, the right
and privilege of erecting an elevator upon its ground at said
station, adjacent to said respondent's side track, at a convenient and suitable place thereon, to wit, at a point on the side
track of said respondent near the east terminus of said side
track, or some other suitable and convenient place on said
side track, if the parties to this action can agree; and that
said respondent grant to the said complainant all and equal
facilities for the handling and shipping of grain at said station
which it grants and gives to other shippers of grain at said
station, and cease from all discrimination or preferences to
and of said shippers and operators of elevators at said station
of Elmwood aforesaid."
The railway company not having complied with that order,
there was presented to the Supreme Court of the State of
Nebraska, on January -7,
1890, a petition in the name of the
State of Nebraska, at the relation of the board of transportation, and signed by the attorney general of the State, setting
forth the proceedings and order of the board of transportation,
and praying for a writ of mandamus to the railvay company
to compel them to comply with that order.
To this petition for a mandamus the railway company filed
an answer, setting up the same defences as before the board
of transportation, and relying upon the provisions of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, which prohibit -any State to deprive any person of
property without due process of law, or to deny to any person, within its jurisdiction, the equal protection of the laws.
Upon a hearing on this petition and answer, the Supreme
Court of Nebraska, on May 13, 1890, "found the issues in
favor of the relators," and adjudged that, unless the railway
company within forty days complied with the order of the

MNISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. NEBRASKA.

411

Opinion of the Court.

board of transportation, a writ of mandamus should issue to
compel a compliance with that order according to its terms.
29 Nebraska, 550. The railway company sued out this writ
of error.

Mr. John F. Dillon for plaintiff in error. Mr. WfinlloW S.
Pierce and Mr. -larryEubbard were on his brief.
XMr. A. S. Churchill for defendant in error. Mr. George H.
Zlating8 and Mi'. I. A. Dilworth filed a brief for same.
MRh. JUSTICE. GnAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The arguments in this case have 'taken a wider range than
is required for its decision. The material facts, as assumed
by the court below, are as follows:
The Missouri Pacific Railway Company, a corporation of
the State of Nebraska, was the owner of the right of way and
depot grounds, within which were its main and side tracks, its
station-houses, and other shipping facilities, at Elmwood in
that State; and had permitted two elevators to be erected and
operated by private firms on the side track at that station.
John W. Hiollenbeck and others, apparently not a corporation, but a voluntary association of persons owning farms and
leaseholds in the neighborhood of Elmwood, upon which they
raised corn, wheat, oats and other cereals, large quantities of
which were ready for market, made an application in writing
to the railway company to grant them "a location on the
right of way at Elnwood station aforesaid, for the erection
of an elevator of sufficient capacity to store from time to
time the cereal products of the farms and leaseholds of" the
applicants, "as well as the products of other neighboring
farms." That application was refused by the railway
company.
The applicants then made a complaint to the Board of
Transportation of the State of Nebraska, alleging that the
two elevators already built on the right of way of the rail-

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

way company at Elmwood station were "during certain seasons of the year wholly insufficient in affording a market for
the cereals of the complainants, and others desirous of marketing their grain" ; and that the refusal of the railway company to grant to the complainants a location for an elevator
was in violation of the Nebraska statute of 1887, c. 60, in that
such refusal was an unjust discrimination, and that the railway
company, by such refusal, was subjecting the complainants to
an undue and unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage, in respect to traffic facilities, over other localities, and was giving
an undue and unreasonable preference and advantage to the
owners and operators of the two elev,%tors already built at
that station.
The board of transportation, after notice to the railway
company, and hearing evidence and arguments, found that
the two existing elevators were insufficient to handle the
grain shipped at Elmwood station, and the owners and operators of those elevators had entered into a combination to
fix the prices of grain and to prevent competition in the
price thereof, and there were not sufficient facilities for the
handling and shipping of grain at that station; that it was
necessary for the convenience of the public that another
elevator should be erected and operated there; that, by reason of the side track being placed within the right of way
and depot grounds, the complainants could not ship grain
without building their elevator upon the grounds of the railway company; that there was room upon those grounds
for another elevator without materially interfering with the
operation of the railroad, and the building of an elevator
thereon by the complainants would not materially affect the
railway company in the use of its grounds, or be an unreasonable burden to it; and that the granting by the railway
company of the right and privilege to the owners of the two
eleiators now standing, and refusing to grant the like right
and privilege to the complainants, was an unjust and unreasonable discrimination against the complainants, and unlawfully gave a preference and advantage to the owners of the
two existing elevators.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. NEBRASKA.

413

Opinion of the Court.

The board of transportation thereupon ordered that the
railway company, within 'ten days, grant to the complainants,
on like terms and conditions as granted to the owners of the
two existing elevators, the right and privilege of erecting an
elevator upon its grounds, and adjacent to its track, at a point
specified in the order, or at some other suitable and convenient place if the parties could agree; and grant to the complainants all and equal facilities for the handling and shipping
of grain at that station, which it granted to other shippers of
grain there, and cease from all discrimination or preference
to and of shippers and operators of elevators at that station.
The railway company not having complied with the order,
the Supreme Court of the State, upon a petition in the name
of the State, at the relation of the board of transportation, for
a mandamus, and an answer thereto and hearing thereon,
found the issues in favor of the relators, and adjudged that,
unless the railway company, within forty days, complied with
order of the board of transportation, a writ of mandamus
should issue to compel compliance with that order according
to its terms. In the opinion of the court, it was said: "The
correctness of the findings of the board is not seriously questioned, but its power to make such findings and order is
denied." 29 Nebraska, 556.
The statute of Nebraska of 1887, c. 60, §§ 1-3, prohibits,
and declares to be unlawful, all unjust and unreasonable
charges made by a railroad company for any services rendered
in the transportation (which includes all instrumentalities of
shipment or carriage) of passengers or property, or in connection therewith, or for the receiving, delivering, storage or handling of such property; the demanding or collecting, directly or
indirectly, by a railroad company, froi. any person, of a greater
compensation for such service, than it demands or collects from
any other person for a like and contemporaneous service in the
transportation of a like kind of traffic under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, is declared to be unjust discrimination ; it is also made unlawful to give arny preference or
advantage to, or to subject to any prejudice or disadvantage,
any particular person, company, firm, corporation or locality, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

any particular description of traffic, in any respect whatsoever;
and railroad companies are required, according to their respective powers, to afford all reasonable, proper and equal facilities
for the interchange of traffic between their respective lines, and
for the receiving, forwarding and delivering of passengers and
property to and from their several lines and those connecting
therewith, and not to discriminate in their rates and charges
between such contracting lines.
By § 17, upon complaint in writing, concerning any lack of
facilities or accommodations furnished by a railroad company,
for the comfort, convenience and accommodation of individuals
and the public, or concerning'any unjust discrimination against
any person, firm, corporation or locality, either in rates, facilities furnished, or otherwise, the board of transportation, whenever, in its judgment, any repairs of, or additions to, or changes
in, any portion of the road, rolling stock, stations, depots,
station-houses or warehouses of a railroad company, are necessary in order to secure the safety, comfort, accommodation
and convenience of the public and individuals, or any change
in the mode of conducting its business is reasonable and expedient in order to promote the security and accommodation
of the public, or to prevent unjust discrimination against
persons or places, is directed to order the railroad company to
make such repairs, additions or changes.
The Supreme Court of Nebraska has construed this statute
as authorizing the board of transportation to make the order
questioned in this case, which required the railroad company
to grant to the relators the right to erect an elevator upon its
right of way at Elmwood station, on the same terms and
conditions on which it had already granted to other persons
rights to erect two elevators thereon. The construction so
given to the statute by the highest court of the State must be
accepted by this court in judging whether the statute conforms to the Constitution of the United States. CAicago, lilwaukee & St. Paul Railway v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418,456;
-Illinois Gentral Railroadv. Illinois, 163 U. S. 142, 152.
A railroad corporation doubtless holds its station grounds,
tracks and right of way as its private property, but for the

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. NEBRASKA.

415

Opinion of the Court.

public use for which it was incorporated; and may, in its discretion, permit them to be occupied by other parties with
structures convenient for the receipt and delivery of freight
upon its railroad, so long as a free and safe passage is left for
the carriage of freight and passengers. Grand Trunk Railroad v. Richtardson, 91 U. S. 454. But how far the railroad
company can be compelled to do so, against its will, is a wholly
different question.
Upon the admitted facts of the case at bar, the railroad

company had granted to two private firms the privilege of
erecting elevators upon its right of way at Elmwood station;
and had refused an application of other private persons, farmers in the neighborhood, for the privilege of erecting on that

right of way a third elevator of sufficient capacity to store
from time to time the grain produced upon their farms and
upon those of their neighbors; and has been ordered by the
board of transportation, and by the Supreme Court of the
State, to grant to the applicants a location upon its right of
way for the purpose of erecting thereon such an elevator,
upon the like terms and conditions as in its grants to the
owners of the two existing elevators.
The only particular alleged in the complaint, and the only
one, therefore, presented for our consideration in this case, in
which the railroad company is supposed to have made an
unjust discrimination against the complainants, or to have
subjected them to an undue and unreasonable prejudice and
disadvantage, in respect to traffic facilities, over other locations, or to have given an undue and unreasonable preference
to other persons, is the refusal of the railroad company to
grant to the complainants a location upon its right of way for
the purpose of erecting an elevator thereon, upon the terms
and conditions upon which it had previously granted to other
persons similar privileges to erect two other elevators.
The record does not show what were the terms and conditions of the contracts between the railroad company and the
owners of those elevators; nor present any question as to the
validity of those contracts.
Nor does it present any question as to the power of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

legislature to compel the railroad company itself to erect and
maintain an elevator for the use of the public; or to compel
it to permit to all persons equal facilities of access from their
own lands to its tracks, and of the use, from time to time, of
those tracks, for the purpose of shipping or receiving grain or
other freight, as in Rhodes v. Aforthern Pacific Raili'oad, 34
Minnesota, 87, in Chicago & -NorthwesternRailway v. People,
56 Illinois, 365, and in Hoyt v. cicago, Burlington & Quincy
Railroad.93 Illinois, 601.
Nor does this case show any such exercise of the legislative
power to regulate the conduct of the, business, or the rate of
tolls, fees or charges, either of railroad corporations or of the
proprietors of elevators, as has been upheld by this court in
previous cases. .Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113 ; Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy Railroad v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 155;
.Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680 ; Budd v. New York, 143
U. S. 517; Brass v. Stoeser, 153 U. S. 391; Covington &ff Cincinnati Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204, 213, 214;
Louisville & Nashville Railroad v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677,
696.
The order in question was not limited to temporary use of
tracks, nor to the conduct of the business of the railway company. But it required the railway company to grant to the
petitioners the right to build and maintain a permanent structure upon its right of way.
The order in question was not, and was not claimed to be,
either in the opinion of the court below, or in the argument
for the defendant in error in this court, a taking of private
property for a public use under the right of eminent domain.
The petitioners were merely private individuals, voluntarily'
associated together for their own benefit.' They do not appear
to have been incorporated by the State for any .public purpose
whatever; or to have themselves intended to establish an
elevator for the use of the public. On the contrary, their
own application to the railroad company, as recited in their
complaint to the board of transportation, was only "for a
location, on the right of way at Elmwood station aforesaid,
for the erection of an elevator of sufficient capacity to store

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. NEBRASKA.

417

Opinion of the Court.

from fime to time the cereal products of the farms and leaseholds of complainants aforesaid, as well as the products of
other neighboring farms."
To require the railroad company to grant to the'petitioners
a location on its right of way, for the erection of an elevator
for the specified purpose of storing from time to time the
grain of the petitioners and of neighboring farmers, is to
compel the railroad company, against its will, to transfer an
estate in part of the land which it owns and holds, under its
charter, as its private property and for a public use, to an association of private individuals, for the purpose of erecting and
maintaining a building thereon for storing grain for their own
benefit, without reserving any control of the use of such land,
or of the building to be erected thereon, to the railroad company for the accommodation of its own business, or for the
convenience of the public.
This court, confining itself to what is necessary for the
decision of the case before it, .isunanimously of opinion,
that the order in question, so far as it required the railroad
corporation to surrender a part of its land to the petitioners,
for the purpose of building and maintaining their elevator
upon it, was, in essence and effect, a taking of private property
of the railroad corporation, for the private use of the petitioners. The taking by a State of the private property of one
person or corporation, without the owner's consent, for the private use of another, is not due process of law, and is a violation
of the Fourteenth Article of Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States. Wilkinson v. Ieland, 2. Pet. 627, 658;
.Murray v. l-oboken Co., 18 How. 272, 276 ; Loan Association
v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S.
97, 102; Cole v. La Grange, 113 U. S. 1; Fallbrook District v.
Bradley, ante, 112, 158, 161; State v. Ohicago, .Milwaukee &
St. Paul Railway, 36 Minnesota, 402.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded to the Supreme Court
of the State of Nebraska,for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Opinion.
voL. cLXIv-27

