OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

McELROY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR

TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No.402.

Submitted October 13, 1896.-Decided November 2, 1896.

G., B., H., C., S. and J. were indicted April 16 for assault with intent
to kill EM.; also, on the same day, for assault with intent to kill SM.;
also, May 1, for arson of the dwelling house of EM.; and, on the
same 16th of April, G., B. and H. were indicted for arson of the
dwelling house of BM. The court ordered the four indictments consolidated. All the defendants except J. were then tried together, and
the trials resulted in separate verdicts of conviction, and the prisoners so convicted were severally sentenced to terms of imprisonment.
Held, that the several charges in the four indictments were for offences
separate and distinct, complete in themselves, independent of each
other, and not provable by the same evidence; and that their consolidation was not authorized by Rev. Stat. ยง 1024.
Such a joinder cannot be sustained where the parties are not the same, and
where the offences are in nowis4 parts of the same trandaction, and depend upon evidence of a different state of facts as to each or some of
them.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. William Z. Craven8 for plainti2s in error.
-M'. Assistant Attorney General DiCkin8on for defendants
in error.
Mt. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.

George McElroy, John C. W. Bland, Henry Hook, Charles
Hook, Thomas Stufflebeam and Joe Jennings were indicted
in the district Court for the Western District of Arkansas for
assault with intent to kill Elizabeth Miller, April 16, 1894,
the indictment being numbered 5332; also for assault with
intent to kill Sherman Miller, on the same day, the indictment being numbered 5333; also for arson of the dwelling
house of one Eugene Miller, May 1, 1891, the indictment
being numbered 5334. Three of these defendants, namely,

McELROY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

George McElroy, John C. W. Bland and Henry Hook, were
also indicted for the arson of the dwelling house of one
Bruce Miller, April 16, 1894, the indictment being numbered
4843. It does not appear that Jennings was tried. The
court ordered the four indictments consolidated for trial, to
which each of the five defendants duly excepted. Trial was
then had and resulted in separate verdicts finding the defendants guilty, and, after the overruling of motions for new
trial and in arrest, they were severally sentenced on each
indictment to separate and successive terms in the penitentiary, and sued out this writ of error.
The consequence of this order of consolidation was that
defendants Stufflebeam and Charles Hlook were tried on three
separate indictments against them and three other defendants,
consolidated with another indictment against the other defendants for an offence with which the former were not
charged, while an indictment for feloniously firing the dwelling house of one person on a certain day was tried with an
indictment for arson committed a fortnight after in respect
of the dwelling house of another person.
Section 1024 of the Revised Statutes is as follows: "When
there are several charges against any person for the same
act or transaction, or for two or more acts or transactions
connected together, or for two or more acts or transactions of
the same class of crimes or offences, which may be properly
joined, instead of having several indictments the whole may
be joined in one indictment in separate counts ; and if two or
more indictments are found in such cases, the court may
order them to be consolidated."
The order of consolidation under this statute put all the
counts contained in the four indictments in the same category
as if they were separate counts of one indictment, and we are
met on the threshold with the inquiry whether counts against
five defendants can be coupled with a count against part of
them or offences charged to have been committed by all at
one time can be joined with another and distinct offence committed by part of them at a different time.
The statute was mnuch considered in Pointerv. United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

151 13. S. 396, 403. In that case the defendant was charged
in different counts with two murders alleged to have been
committed on the same day and in the same county and
district, and moved to quash on that ground, which motion
was denied. Before the case was opened to the jury for the
government the defendant moved that the district attorney
be required to elect on which count of the indictment he
would claim a conviction. The motion was overruled, and he
was required to go to trial upon all the counts. Upon the
conclusion of the evidence the defendant renewed the motion
that the government be required to elect upon which count of
the indictment it would prosecute him, but this motion was
overruled. The jury found separate verdicts of guilty of each
murder as charged in the appropriate count. This court,
speaking through Mr. Justice Harlan, said: "While recognizing as fundamental the principle that th, court must not
permit the defendant to be embarrassed in his defence by a
multiplicity of charges embraced in one indictment and to
be tried by one jury, and while conceding that regularly or
usually an indictment should not include more than one felony,
the authorities concur in holding that a joinder in one indictment, in separate counts, of different felonies, at least of the
same class or grade, and subject to the same punishment, is
not necessarily fatal to the indictment upon demurrer or upon
motion to quash or on motion in arrest of judgment, and does
not, in every case, by reason alone of such joinder, make it
the duty of the court, upon motion of the accused, to compel
the prosecutor to elect upon what one of the charges he will
go to trial." It was decided that it could not be held from
anything on the face of the indictment that the trial court
erred or abused its discretion in overruling the defendant's
motion to quash the indictment, or his motions for an election
by the government between the two charges of murder. The
indictment showed that the two murders were committed on
the same day, in the same county and district, and with the
same kind of an instrument, and these facts justified the trial
'court in forbearing at the beginning of the trial to compel an
election. And when the evidence was closed it appeared

McELROY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

therefrom that the two murders were committed at the same
place, on the same occasion, and under such circumstances that
the proof in respect of one necessarily threw light upon the
other; and that "there was such close connection between the
two felonies, in respect of time, place and occasion, that it was
difficult, if not impossible, to separate the proof of one charge
from the proof of another." As it was apparent that the substantial rights of the accused were not prejudiced by the
action of the trial court, we declined to reverse on the ground
of error therein.
It will be perceived that the two offences were charged
against one and the same defendant, and that the case disclosed such concurrence as to place, time and circumstances as
rendered the proof the -same as to both, and made the two
alleged murders substantially parts of the same transaction.
In the case at bar, the two indictments for assault with intent to kill on April 16, 1891, and the indictment for arson on
May 1, 1894, were against all of the defendants, while the.
indictment for arson committed April 16, 1894, the same day
of the alleged assaults with intent to kill, was against three of
the defendants and not against the others.
On the face of the indictments there was no connection
between the acts charged as committed April 16 and the arson
alleged to have been committed two weeks later, on which
last occasion the government's testimony, according to the
record, showed that the two defendants Charles Hook and
Thomas Stuffiebeam were not present. The record also discloses that there was no evidence offered tending to show that
there had been or was a conspiracy between defendants, or
them and other parties, to commit the alleged crimes.
The several charges in the four indictments were not against
the same persons, nor were they for the same act or transaction, nor for two or more acts or transactions connected together; and in our opinion they were not for two or more acts
or transactions of the same class of crimes or offences which
might be properly joined, because they were substantive
offences, separate and distinct, complete in themselves and
independent of each other, committed at different times and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

not provable by the same evidence. In cases of felony, the
multiplication of distinct charges has been considered so objectionable as tending to confound the accused in his defence,
or to prejudice him as to his challenges, in the matter of being
held out to be habitually criminal, in the distraction of the
attention of the jury, or otherwise, that it is the settled rule
in England and in many of our States, to confine the indictiment to one distinct offence or restrict the evidence to one
transaction. Young v. The Zing, 3 T. R. 98, 106; Beg. v.
Hleywood, Leigh & Cave C. C. 451; Tindal, C. J., O'Connell v.
Reg., 11 C1. & Fin. 241; Beg. v. Whard, 10 Cox C. C. 42; Rex
v. Youag, Russ. & Ry. 280; Beg. v. Lonsdale, 4 Fost. & Vin.
56; Goodhue v. People, 94 Illinois, 37; State v. N"elson, 8 N. H.
163 ; People v. Aiken, 66 Michigan, 460; Williams v. State, 77
Alabama, 53 ; State v. Hutchings, 24 S. C. 142; State v. X, cNeill,
93 N. C. 552; State v. Daubert, 42 Missouri, 242; 1 Bish. Cr.
Proc. ยง 259. Necessarily, where the accused is deprived of a
substantial right by the action of the trial court, such action,
having been properly objected to, is revisable on error.
It is clear that the statute does not authorize the consolidation of indictments in such a i;ay that some of the defendants
may be tried at the same time with other defendants charged
with a crime different from that for which all are tried. And
even if the defendants are the same in all the indictments consolidated, we do not think the statute authorizes the joinder
of distinct felonies, not provable by the same evidence and in
no sense resulting from the same series of acts.
Under the third clause relating to several charges "for two
or more acts or transactions of the same class of crimes or
,
be properly joined" that
offences," it is only when they " may
the joinder is permitted, the statute thus leaving it for the
court to determine whether in any given case a joinder of two
or more offences in one indictment against the same person
"is consistent with the settled principles of criminal law," as
stated in Pointer's case.
It is admitted by the government that the judgments against
conStuffilebeam and Charles Hook must be-reversed, but it is.
tended that the judgments as to the other three defendants

UNITD STATES v. McMAHON.
Syllabus.

should be affirmed because there is nothing in the record to
show that they were prejudiced or embarrassed in their defence by the course pursued. But we do-not concur in this
view. While the general rule is that counts for several felonies
of the same general nature, requiring the same mode of trial
and punishment, may be joined in the same indictment, subject
to the power of the court to quash the indictment or to compel
an election, such joinder cannot be sustained where the parties
are not the same and where the offences are in nowise parts
of the same transaction and must depend upon evidence of a
different state of facts as to each or some of them. It cannot
be said in such case that all the defendants may not have been
embarrassed and.prejudiced in their defence, or that the attention of the jury may not have been distracted to their injury
in passing upon distinct and independent transactions. The
order of consolidation was not authorized by statute and did
not rest in mere discretion.
Judgment reversed as to all the defendants and cause remanded with directions to grant a new trial and for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE PEcKnAm concurred
in the reversal as to Stuffiebeam and Charles Hook only.

UNITED STATES v. McMAHON.
MoMAHON

v. UNITED STATES.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 356, 357. Argued October 21, 1896. -Decided

November 2, 1M9G.

The fees to which a marshal is entitled, under Rev. Stat. ยง 829, for attending criminal examinations in separate and distinct cases upon the same
day and before the same commissioner, are five dollars a day; but when
he attends such examinations before different commissioners on the same
day he is entitled to a fee of two dollars for attendance before each
commissioner.
A special deputy marshal, appointed under Rev. Stat. ยง 2021, to attend
VOL. cLxiv-6

