OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

did not in the slightest degree proceed upon the denial of that
fact, but gave the judgment the same force and effect that it
had in North Carolina, for in neither of. the States would the
will, as such, disposQ of property that did not belong to the
testatrix.
, To give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error to a state
court, it must appear affirmatively, not only that a federal
question was presented for decision to the highest court of
the State having jurisdiction, but that its decisiorf was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it was actually decided, or that the judgment as rendered could not have
been given without deciding it. New Orleans Water TForks
Company v. Loumzana Sugar Refin gn Company, 125 U. S.
18, 29,
linger v lissouri, 13 Wall. 257, 263, .DeSauseure
v. Gaillard,127 U S. 216, Zopkzns v Atclure, 133 U. S.
380.
The motion to dismiss the writ of erro; must be silstained.
W'it of error dismussed.

LOUISVILLE

AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD
PANY v. WOODSQN._

COM-

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 1182. Submitted March 24, 1890.-Decided April 7, 1890.

The statute of Tennessee which provides that "not more than two new
trials shall be granted to any party in any action at law; or upon the
trial by a jury of an issue of fact in equity," Code of 1884, 735, ยง 3835,
having been construed by the courts of that State to refer to a state of
case where, in the opinion of the court, the verdict should have been
otherwise than as rendered, because of the insufficiency of the evidence
to sustain it-and not to a case where there is no evidence at all to sustain it- is not in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.; while the Fifth Amendment has no application to it.
It is settled law in this court that when the evidence given at the trial, with
all the inferences that the jury could justifiably draw from it, is insufficient to support a verdict for the plaintiff, so that such a verdict, if re-

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD CO.

.WOODSON.

615

Opinion- of the Court.
turned, must be set aside, the court is not bound to submit the case to
the jury, but may direct a verdict for the defendant; while, on the other
hand, the case shoifd be left to the jury, unless the conclusion follows,
as matter*of law, that no recovery can be had upon any view which can
be properly takeil of the facts which the evidence tends to establish.

MToONs To DISMSS OR TO AFFIRM.

The case is stated in

,he opinion.
.fr A. A. Freeman for the motions.
36f- Edward Baxter opposing.
M iR. CHIF JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Woodson sued the Louisville -and Nashville Railroad Company to recover damages for injuries sustained by him through
its negligence. The defendant pleaded not guilty Upon the
trial in- the Circuit Court of Haywood County, Tennessee, the
jury returned a verdict mn favor of the plaintiff, assessing his
damages at $3000, which on motion was set aside, and a new
trial granted upon the ground that the verdict was not sustained by the evidence. A second trial -was then'had which
resulted in a verdict. for the -plaintiff of $5000, which was
again set aside on motion, upon the same ground. A third
trial was then bad resulting in- a verdict of $3000, upon which
judgment was entered. And the record then states "In this
cause, on this the 31st day of August, 1883, the defendant moved
.the court to grant -it a new trial herein and to arrest the
judgment herein because the verdict of the jury, returned.
herein August 30, 1888, was not supported by the law and the
evidence submitted, and because of error in His Honor the trial
judge in allowing plaintiff to make proof of others than the
plaintiff swinging on to trains at other times prror to the day
of the accident, and of the habit of plaintiff and other boys in
swinging to moving trains prior to the day of the accident,
which motions are by the court seen and understood, and the
same are by the court- overruled and disallowed. Thereupon
the defendant presented its bill of exceptions to the ruling of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the court in overruling its motions aforesaid and in overruling

its objection to the admission of the testimony aforesaid in the
progress of the trial, which bill of exceptions is signed by the

court and ordered to be made a part of the record herein."
Defendant prayed an appeal to the Supreme Court of Tennessee, which was granted, and an appeal bond given accordingly
The bill of exceptions sets forth all the evidence adduced
upon the trial, and the charge of the court in full. This
charge is of considerable length, and presented the case to the
jury with apparent care. It is nowhere therein stated that
there was no evidence upon which the plaintiff would be entitled to recover, on the contrary, it assumes that there was
,some evidence which would justify a verdict for the plaintiff.
It was said -bythe trial judge, among other things "On the
other band, if you find the injury was the direct and proximate result of the defendant's negligence or misconduct, you
will return your verdict for the plaintiff, or if you find the
plaintiff was a child of tender years.when injured, and that
his conduct and wrong did not contribute to the injury, but
that he was not possessed of such discretion and judgment on
account of his infancy as would reasonably be calculated to
cause him to avoid such danger, and you further find that the
defendant might have prevented and avoided the accident by
the exercise of ordinary and reasonable prudence and caution,
then in that event you should return your verdict for the plaintiff. The plaintiff would be a trespasser.if he was on the defendant's freight trains or swinging to one of them, or' in the
defendant's yard or on its grounds trying to seize on to one of
its cars. He would have no right to complain of a clearance
post or staub being located on the defendant's track or roadbed if he was. such trespasser, and defendant had put up or
caused to be put up such clearance staub in its regular busi-hess.
"If you find that the defendant is a corporation running
freight trains on its line of railroad through Brownsville, Tennessee,, and that plaintiff, in December, 1881, was a small boy,
about six years old, -and that he and- other small boys had been,
prior t6 that date, for a long while in the habit daily of jumping

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD CO. v. WOODSON.

617

Opinion of the Court.

on and off of the freight and passenger trains of defendant
while they were in motion, and riding thereon in and about
the yards of defendant in said city, and that the conductors,
biakesmen and trainmen and agent of defendant at its depot
in Brownsville had knowledge of such practices and habit of
the plaintiff and other boys, and that the said conductors,
agents or brakesmen, or other employes of the defendant
willingly permitted and encouraged the plaintiff to so ride on
and jump on and off of such moving .trains, and that the agent
or assistant agent of defendant and the conductor of the
freight train by which plaintiff was hurt knew that plaintiff
was at the depot or in the yards of defendant or near the
train, ready and likely to try to jump on said train when it
might be put in motion, and that said train was so put in
motion, and -moved off, and that plaintiff was hurt by being
thrown under the wheels thereof while swinging to one of the
freight cars or while running along by one of said cars endeavoring to swing on the same, and that no effort or precaution
was taken by said conductor or said assistant agent of defendant possessing such knowledge as aforesaid, then in that event
I charge you the plaintiff would be entitled to a verdict for
some damages against the defendant, and if you Pind such to
be the facts you should return a verdict for the plaintiff."
It is stated that the bill of exceptions is tothe judgment of
the court inoverruling the objeotions to the admission of
testimony, and also in overruling the motion for new trial and
in arrest of judgment. It does not appear that the court was
asked'to instruct the jury, as matter of law, that -no recovery
could be had: upon any view which could be properly taken of
the facts the evidence tended to establish, and it is evident
from the .extracts above given from the charge of the court
that the trial judge must have been of opinion that a verdict
for the plaintiff could be sustained upon some view that might
be properly taken.
The railroad company assigned thirteen errors in the Supreine Court of the State as grounds for the reversal of the
judgment of the Circuit Court. Nearly all of these questioned
the rulings of the court in relation to the admission of testi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

mony and in different parts of the charge. The first error
assigned was in permitting, under the pleadings, the plaintiff
below to make proof of boys besides himself, "at other times
prior to the one when plaintiff below was injured, swinging to
trains of defendant below other than the freight train which
ran over and injured him." The second error was as follows
"Because the proof introduced in accordance with the pleadings wholly fails to show that defendant belowwas guilty of
any negligence whatever in running its freight train as alleged,
at the time and place alleged, over the plaintiff below, but, on
the. contrary, shows that plaintiff's injury was the result of his
own gross, negligence." This second error, therefore, rested
on essentially the same ground as the first, in that it claimed
there was a failure of proof, if the evidence were confined to
that contended to be alone admissible under the pleadings.
The thirteenth error reads thus ":Because, from the uncontroverted facts in the -record, the verdict should have been for
defendant."
The assignment nowhere specifically alleged that the Circuit
Court erred as matter of law in the entry of judgment.
because there was no evidence to go to the pry, nor is there
any allusion to the statute hereafter referred to.
The Supreme Court of Tennessee affirmed the judgment in
these words "This cause was heard upon the transcript of
the record from the Circuit Court of Haywood County and
the court adjudges that there-is no evidence to support the
verdict of the jury, but the defendant having obtained three
verdicts of separate juries upon different trials, two of which
have been heretofore set aside by the circuit judge, and now,
alone upon this ground, the statute of Tennessee forbidding
the granting of more than two new trials in the same cause
on tho facts, which statute is not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States, Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments, it is considered by this court that said judgment be
affirmed, and that defendant in error, Eddie Woodson, by W
H. Lea, as next friend, recover of the plaintiff in error The
Louisville and Nashville Railroad. Company, the sum of-thr'ee
thousand dollars ($3000), amount of judgment of court; below
and the costs of said court. etc."

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD CO. v. WOODSON.

619

Opinon of the Gjourt.

A writ of error was sued out from thi's court upon the
ground that the validity of a statute of the State of Tennessee
was drawn in question, as being repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and
that the decision was in favor of its validity A motion is
now made to dismiss the writ of error and with it is united a
motion to affirm the judgment.
In each of the constitutions of the State of Tennessee of
1796, 1834 and 1870, it is declared that "the right of trial by
jury shall remain inviolate," and also that "judges shall not
charge juries with respect to matters of fact, but may state
the testimony and declare the law" Const. 1796, Art. 11,
sec. 6, Art. 5, see. 5, 1834, Art. 1, sec. 6, Art. 6, sec. 9, 1870,
Art. 1, sec. 6, Art. 6, sec. 9.0 The purpose of this latter provision was stated in Ivey v..HJodges, 4 Humphrey, 155, to be to
put a stop to the practice in summing up, of "telling the jury
not what was deposed to, but what was proved."
In Claxton v State, 2 Humphrey, 181, it was held that where
the court charged the jury that if they should find a special
verdict which presented the testimony of one of the witnesses
as the facts of the case, he should declare it a case of manslaughter, "this charge announced a conclusion of Jaw upon a
hypothetical state of facts, and did not trench upon the constitutional rights of the defendant."
And so in Williams v iforwood, 2 Yerger, 329, the court
decided that "a partyhas a right to the opinion of the court,
distinctly as to the law, whether certain facts constitute probable cause or not, if the jury believe the facts as stated were
proved."
Since 1801 there has been upon the stattite book of the
State of- Tennessee the following provision. "Not more than
two new trials shall be granted to the same party in any
action at law, or upon the trial by jury of an issue of fact in
equity" Acts 1801, c. 6, sec. 59; Laws Tenn. 1831, p. 229,
Code 1858, see. 3122, p. 590, Code Tennessee, 1884. see. 3835,
p. 735.
In Trott v West, 10 Yerger, 499, 500 (1837), the Supreme
Court of Tennessee sayt that this statute "means that where

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the facts of the case have been fairly left to the jury upon a
proper charge of the court, and they have twice found a verdict for the same party, each of which having been set aside
by the court, if the same party obtain another verdict in like
manner, it shall not be disturbed. But this act did not intend
to prevent the court granting new trials for error m the charge
of the court to the jury, for error in the admission of, or rejection of testimony, for misconduct of the jury, and the like."
Turner v Ross, 1 Humphrey, 16 (1839), East Tennessee &c.
Railroad Co. v. Hfaekney, 1 Head, 169 (1858).
In -Knoxville iron Co. v. -Dobson, 15 Lea, 409, 416 (1885), it
issaid that! "this court has uniformly held that the statute
was intended to limit the power of the courts over the findings
of fact by the jury upon regular proceedings and a correct
charge. If the court in the same case has set aside, upon the
motion of the same party, the verdicts of twQ juries, upon the
ground that the evidence is not sufficient to sustain them, the
power of the court is at an end to grant another new trial to
the same party upon the facts or merits.
The statute
does not prevent the granting of new trials for errors committed by the court, or for improper conduct which may
vitiate the verdict."
Wilson v Greer, 7 Humphrey, 513.
In Tate v Gray, 4 Sneed, 591, 594, it was held that it is
the duty of the circuit judge "to grant a new trial in all cases
where he believes the preponderance of the proof is decidedly
against the finding," and that "although by the theory of
our system the jury are the proper and exclusive triers of the
facts, yet the law requires the circuit judge, who is presumed
to have more practice and- skill in the investigation of truth,
to set aside their verdicts, whenever in his opinion they have
disregarded or misconceived the force of proof, that a new
trial may be had."
From these decisions it is clear that in Tennessee, as elsewhere, although the jury are the judges of the facts, yet
the judge has power to set aside the verdict when, in his
judgment, it is against the weight of the evidence, but that
that supervisory power cannot be exercised under the statute
when the triers of the facts have three times deterniined them

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD C0. v. WOODSON.

621

Opinion of the Court.

the same way This manifestly refers to a state of case where,
in the opinion of the judge, the verdict should have been
otherwise than as rendered, because of the insufficiency of the
evidence to sustain it, but not to a case where there is no
evidence at all. It is the settled law of this court that "when
the evidence given at the trial, with all inferences that the jury
could justifiably draw from it, is insufficient to support a verdict for the plaintiff, so that such a verdict, if returned,,must
be set aside, the court is not bound- to submit the case to the
jury, but may direct a verdict for the defendant;" Randall v
Baltigmore & 0kOw Railroad,109 U. S. 478, 482, Gunther v
Liverpool &c. Ins. Co., ante, 110, while, on the other .hand,
the case should be left to the jury, unless the conclusion
follows, as matter of law, that no recovery can be had upon
any view which can be properly taken of the facts the evidence
tends to establish. Dunlap v _Aortheasterr Railroad Co., 130
U. S. 649, 652. In such case the practice of a demurrer to
the evidence can be resorted to, or a motion to exqlude the
evidence from the jury, or to instruct them that the plaintiff
cannot recover, which motions are in the nature of demurrers
to evidence, though less technical, and have in many of the
States superseded the ancient practice of a demurrer to eyidence. Parks v Ross, 11 Row 362, Sckzucardt v Allens,
1 Wall. 359. Such a motion, like the. demurrer to evidence,
admits not only what the testimony proves, but what it tends
to prove. The ultimate facts, in other words, are admitted.
In Bacon v Fariser, 2 Overton, 55, 57, it was decided that
an involuntary non-suit could no+ be ordered, but a demurrer
to evidence was allowed in Bedford v Ingrami, 5 Haywooa
(Tenn.) 155, and it must be that as the duty devolves upon the
judge "to declare the law," he may be requested, in some
form, to advise the jury that the plaintiff cannot* recover
when that is the conclusion of law arising upon tne record, and
should do so though not specifically directed. It is true that
it was held in iirtand v M3ontgomery, -1 Swan (Tenn.) 452,
that it was error for the trial judge to assume to answer both
the questions of law and the questions of *factinvolved, in that
case, which was one, however, in which there was evidence

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

raising questions of fact to be determined, and in Ayres v.
.Moulton,5 Coldwell, 154, it was held error in the circuit judge
to charge the jury that from the facts as proven the plaintiffs
were "entitled to recover of the defendant the sum-sued for,"
because "the facts to be deduced from the evidence must be
left exclusively to the jury" iBut that also. was.a case where
it evidently did not follow from the ultimate facts that the
plaintiffs were entitled as matter of law to recover as stated.
To the same effect is Case v Williams, 2 Coldwell, 239, where
it was ruled that if the charge of the trial judge " be equivalent to a determination of.the facts involved, a new trial will
be granted."
This is and must be so, whenever there are
deductions of fact to be drawn -bythe jury, but where that
is not the case., although a direct instruction to return a verdict for the defendant may not be in accordance with the
practice in Tennessee, yet the decisions show that the question
whether a recovery canbe had at all or not, can be presented
in some appropriate form. in that State.
Thus, in W]tzrley v Whzteman, 1 Head, 616, it is said "In
trials by jury, the court is to decide the questions of law; and
the jury, questions of fact, what are called mixed questions,
consisting of both law and fact, as questions in respect to the
degree of care, skill, diligence, etc., required by law in particular cases, are to be submitted to the jury, under proper instructions from the court, as to the rules and principles of
law by which they are to be governed in their determination
of the case. The truth of the facts and circumstances offered
in evidence, in support of the allegations on the record, must
be determined by the jury But it is for the court to decide,
whether or not those facts and circumstances, if found by the
jury to be true, are sufficient in point of law, to maintain the
allegations in the pleading& And this must be done in one
of two modes, either the court must inform the jury hypothetically whether or not the facts which the evidence tends
to prove, will, if established in the opinion of the jury, satisfy
the allegations, or, the jury must find the facts specially, and
then the court will apply the law and pronounce whether or
not the facts so found are sufficient to support the averments

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD CO. ,v.WOODSON.

623

Opinion of the Court.

of the parties. 1 Starkie's Ev 447. The principle of law,
by which the jury must be governed in finding a verdict, cannot be left to their arbitrary determination. The. rights of
parties must be decided according to the established law of
the land, as declared by the legislature or expounded by the
courts, and not according to what the jury in their own opinion nay suppose the law isi or ought to be. Otherwise the
law would be as fluctuating and uncertain as the diverse views
and opinions of different juries in regard to it." X1emp7zs
Gayoso Gas do. v Williamson, 9 ifeiskell, 314, 3-1, Gregory.
v. Urnderhill, 6 Lea, 207, 211.
Tested by this rule, whenever the statute is applied, it must
be upon the assumption that. although the court would have
found a different verdict, because of the weakness of the evidence, yet there was some evidence tending to establish the
cause of action. Courts rarely grant a new trial after two
verdicts upon the facts m favor of the same party, except for
error of law, and the statute, in the interest of the termination
of litigation, makes that imperative which would otherwise be
discretionary For, decisions under similar statutory provisions see Silsbe v L-ucas, 53 Illinois, 479, -M11. Cent. Railroad
Co. v. Patterson, 93 Illinois, 290, Carmichael v. Geary, 27
Indiana, 362; Boyce v Smith,16 Missouri, 317, Wildy v .Bonney's Lessee, 35 Mississippi, 77, Rans v. Hood, 23 Texas,
555, Tatterson,v .Afoore, 23 W 'Va. 404.
We can perceive nothing in the statute thus applied which
amounts to an arbitrary deprivdtion of the rights of the.
citizen, and concur with'the Supreme Court of Tennessee that
this act, which had been in force for more than sixty years
before the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, wa&not
invalidated by it, while theFifth Amendment had no application whatever.
The statement in the judgment of affirmance is that "the
court adjudges that there is no evidence to support the verdict of the-jury;" and if this were taken literally, it would
follow that no recovery could be had, as matter of law, and
we therefore suppose that the language used indicates sitlply
the opinion of the court that the jury ought not to have found

