OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.
upon it zs hereby ordered that the said James . Savage be, and
he is hereby, dischargedfrom said imprisonment.
It is further ordered that the said J. A. Lampng, warden as aforesaid, do notify the Attorney General of the State of Colorado of
the day and the hour of the day when he will discharge the said
James H. Savage from imprisonment, and that such notice be
given at least ten days before the release of the prisoner
BRADLEY, J. and Bxti,.wER, J., dissenting.
Hr

Walter Van Rensselaer Berry and Mr. Henry Wise Garnett

(with whom was Mr A.

T Britton on the brief) for petitioner.

Mr Henry M. Teller, and Mr. Aaron W Jones, Attorney General
of the State of Colorado, submitted on their brief.

JEFFERIS v. EAST OMAAHA LAND CO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 1539.

Submitted January 13, 1890.-

Decided March 10, 1890.

A fractional section of land, on the left bank of the Missouri River, in Iowa,
was surveyed by United States surveyors in 1851, and lot 4 therein was
formed, and so designated on the plat filed, and as containing 37.24
acres, the north boundary of it being on the Missouri River. Iii 1853
the lot was entered and paid for, and wqs patented in June, 1855, as lot
4. Afterwards, by ten mesne conveyances, made, down to 1888, the
lot was conveyed as lot 4, and became vested in the plaiitiff. About
1853 new land was formed against the north line, and continued to form
until 1870, so that then more than 40 acres had been formed by accretion
by natural causes and imperceptible degrees within the lines running
north and south on the east and west of the lot, and the course of the
rver ran far north of the original meander line. The defendant claimed
to own a part of the new land by deed from one who had entered upon
it. The plaintiff filed a bill to establish his title to the new land, claiming it as a part of.lot 4. On demurrer to the bill, Held,
(1) The bill aleging that the land was formed bv "impercentible de-

JEFFERIS ,v. EAST OMAHA LAND C0.
Statement of the Case.

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

grees," the time during winch the large increase was made being
nearly 20 years, the averment must stand, notwithstanding the
character of the river, and the rapid changes constantly going on
in its banks;
Where a water line is the boundary of a given lot, that line, no matter how it shifts, remains the boundary; and a deed describing
the lot by its number conveys the land up to such, shifting water
line; so that, in the view of accretion, the water line, if named
as the'boundary, continues to be the boundary, and a deed of the
lot carries all the land up to the water line;
Accretion is an addition to land coterminous with the water, winch
is formed so slowly that its progress cannot be perceived, and
does not admit of the view, that, in order to be accretion, the
formation must be one not discernible by comparison at two
distinct periods of time;
The patent having conveyed the lot as lot 4, and the successive
deeds thereafter having conveyed it by the same description; the
patent and the deeds covered the successive accretions, and
neither the United States, nor any grantor, retained any interest
in any of the accretion,
Where a plat is referred t3 in a deed as containing a description of
land, the courses, distances and other particulars appearing upoV
the plat are to be as much regarded, in ascertaining the true
description of the land and the intent of the parties, as if they
had been expressly enumerated m the deed.

Tms was a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Nebraska, on the 9th of
February, 1889, by The East Omaha land Company, a Nebraska corporation, against Thomas Tefferis. The case -was
heard on a demurrer to the bill, which makes it necessary
to state with particularity the allegations of the bill.. They
are as follows
The lands winch are the subject of the suit are of the value
of $2000 or more. In 1851 the deputy surveyors of the
United States, then engaged in surveying the public lands m
township 75 north, range 44 west, of the fifth principal meridian, m the State of Iowa, ran, marked and made field-notes
and plats of the meander line of the left bank of the Missounri
River, and returned the said field-notes and plats to the surveyor general of Iowa, who filed the same m the General
Land Office, and they were thereupon duly approved, and
since that time no resurvey has been made by the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

-States of the lands lying along, upon, or near said river, or of
the premises which are the subject of the bill.
Section 21 in that township was pronerly surveyed and subdivided by the deputy surveyors, and the plats and nqtes
thereof were duly made, returned and approved as aforesaid.
By the surveys the section was found, and by the plats and
notes thereof returned as fractional, and a part thereof,
designated as lot 4, was formed, containing 37.24 acres, the
north boundary thereof being on the Missouri River. The
meander line of the river was described in the field-notes as
beginning at meander corner No. 6, the same being at a point
on the line between sections 16 and 17 in said township and
range, about 100 feet north of the intersection of the exterior
lines of said sections 16 and 17 and sections 20 and 21, thence
south 71 degrees east, 2.68 chains to meander post No. 7, on
the north line of lot 4, thence south 79 degrees 50 minutes
east, 54 chains, thence north 85 degrees east, 4.50 chains,
thence east 15 chains, thence north 87 degrees east, 5.25
chains to the corner of sections 21 and 22. A map was annexed, marked Exhibit A, being a true copy of the plat so
made, returned and approved, showing the meander line of
the river and the lines of 'the subdivisions of sections 16, 17,
21 and 22.
On the 10th of October, 1853, one Edmund Jeffens entered
lot 4 at the United States Land Office for the district of land
subject to sale at Kauesville, Iowa, paid the proper officer of
the office the legal price thereof, and received therefor the
usual register's certificate, and, on. the 15th of June, 1855,
the usual patent of the government was duly issued to him
for the land. In the certificate anu patent, the land was described as lot 4 in fractonal section 21, in township -75 north,
range 44 west, of the fifth principal meridian, containing 37.24
-acres, according to the official plat of the survey of the land
returned to the General Land Office by the surveyor general.
At the time of the. entry, the meander line of the left bank -of
the river was the same, .or nearly the same, as shown by such
field-notes and plat.
On .the - 14th of July, 1856, said Jefferis duly conveyed the

JEFFERIS -v. EAST OMAHA LAND CO.
Statement of the Case.

land to Joseph Still and Joseph I. Town, describing the same
simply as lot 4, in section 21, in township 75 north, range 44'
west, of the fifth principal meridian. On. the 21st of September, 1857, Town conveyed the undivided half of the premises,
with warranty, to one McCoid, who, on the 16th of October,
1857, quit-claimed the premises to one Coleman. On the 25th
of May, 1858, Coleman conveyed them, with warranty, to
Mrs. Ruth A. Town. On the 27th of April, 1859, Joseph I.
Town and Ruth A. Town conveyed them, with warranty, to
one Bom, who, on the 30th of Maya, 1861, quit-claimed them
to one McBride, and McBride,.on the 30th of-September, 1861,.
quit-claimed them to one Schoville. Schoville having died, his
widow and heirs quit-claimed them co the plaintiff, on the 22d
of March, 1888. On the 9th of March, 1888, Still quit-claimed
the other undivided half of the premises to Lyman H. Town,
who, on the 28th of March, 1888, conveyed the same to the
plaintiff. In each of the deeds.made by those several parties,
the premises were described as lot 4 in fractional section 21,
township 75,north, range 44 west, of the fifth principal meridian, and the deeds were duly recorded in the registry of Pottawattamie County, Iowa, in which county the premises were
situated.
About the time of the original entry of lot 4 by Edmund
Jefferis, new land was formed. along and against the whole
length of the north line thereof, and. from that time continued
to form until 1870, so that in that year, at a distance of 20
chains and more from the original meander line before described,
and within the lines of the lot on the east and west running
north and south, a tract of 40 acres and more had been formed
by accretion to the lot, and ever since had been and now is a
part thereof. The said land was so formed by natural causes
and imperceptible degrees, that is to say, by the operation of
the current and waters of the river, washing and depositing
earth, sand, and other material against and upon the north
line of the lot , and the waters and current of the river receded
therefrom, so that the new land so formed became high and
dry above the usual high-water mark, and the river made for
itself its main course far north of the original meander line.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Such .process, begun m'1853 and continued until 1870, went
on so slowly that it could not be observed in its progress, but,
at intervals of not less than three or four months, it could be
discerned by the eye that additions greater or less had been
made to the shore.
In 1877, the river, at a point more than a mile south of the
north line of the lot, suddenly cut through its bank and made
for itself a course through the same, leaving all of section 21
north of its bank. A plat, marked Exhibit B, was annexed,
upon which was delineated the river both before and after such
sudden change.
The river was and always had been navigable for steamers
of large tonnage.
The United States never claimed any
interest in the land so formed by accretion to lot 4. The
plaintiff submitted that by such several mesne conveyances,
whereby the title to lot 4 had come to it, it had become seized
in fee, not only of the land included within the boundaries of
the lot at the time of such survey, but also of the land so
formed by accretion thereto, so that the east and west boundaries of the lot were formed by the protraction of the east
and west lines north to the left bank of the river, as the same
was in 1877 when the river suddenly changed its course, and
the north boundary of the lot was the said left bank at that
time.
When the plaintiff became seized of the land, it entered into
the same and made large and valuable improvements thereon,
and it had projected the enterprise of redeeming the land and
other land adjoining it, of improving the same so that the
whole would be available for railroad and manufacturing purposes, of building railroad tracks, station-houses, depots, warehiouses, and manufacturing establishments, and selling parcels
of the land to others for such purposes, and had expended more
than $20,000, and had in hand $100,000 which it purposed to
expend in grading, and in building roads, bridges, etc.
In 1888 one Oounzeman and others, without any authority
Of law, entered upon the land so formed by accretion, and for
a time occupied it, but afterwards abandoned it. Recently,
Counzeman had made to the defendant a deed of quit-claim

J'EFFERIS -v. EAST 0-2fAEIA LAND CO.
Statement of the Case.

purporting to convey a certain parcel of the land so formed
by accretion to lot 4. The south line of the land, so conveyed
to the defendant was about two hundred feet north of the
original meander line of lot 4, as that line was so run, marked,

and platted by the United States surveyors; and the deed
purported to convey about twenty acres, which were within
the above-recited boundaries of the land formed by accretion
to lot 4. When Counzeman entered upon the land and when
he made the deed to the defendant, each of them well knew
of the plaintiff's plan and purposes in respect thereof, and that
they had no right so to enter; and the defendant threatened
to, and, unless restrained by injunction, would, dispossess the
plaintiff and seriously interfere with its plans and purposes.
The defendant was insolvent and unable to answer for the
damage to which he would subject the -plaintiff by entering
into the premises and dispossessing the plaintiff.
The- bill waived an answer on oath, and prayed for an
injunction restraining the defendant from entering into, taking
,possession of, or intermeddling with, any part of the premises
conveyed to him by Counzeman, and for a decree declaring
that the land so formed against lot 4, including that conveyed
to the defendant, became and was a part of lot 4 and included
within its description, that the title to it had become and was
vested in the plaintiff; that the deed made to the defendant
be delivered up to be cancelled, that he be perpetually
enjoined from asserting the same or any title or interest thereunder against the plaintiff; and.for general relief.
The defendant interposed a general demurrer to the bill, for
want of equity
The case was heard before Mr. Justice Brewer, then Circuit
Judge, who filed an opinion on the 1st of March, 1889,
directing .that the demurrer be sustained. 40 Fed. IRep. 386.
On a petition for a rehearing, which was heard by the same
judge, he filed an opinion, 40. Fed. Rep. 390, directing that
the demurrer be overruled. Thereupon a decree was entered,
on the 13th of" November, 1889, overruling the demurrer;
granting a perpetual injunction restraining the defendant
from entering into, taking possession of, or in any manner

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellant.

intermeddling with, the premises, and from asserting any
right or interest thereiii, and declaring that the land in
question was formed by process of accretion and imperceptible
degrees against the premises known and described as lot 4 of
section 21 in township T5 north, of range 44 west, of the fifth
principal meridian, m the State of Iowa, as the same was
originally surveyed and platted by the surveyors of the United
States, and became, by such accretion, a part of said lot and
was included within such description, and the title thereto
passed by such description from the original patentee of the
United States to the plaintiff, by divers mesne conveyances,
and is now vested in the plaintiff. It was further decreed,
that the deed made to the defendant by Counzeman, purporting to convey the premises, be delivered up to the plaintiff,
to be cancelled, and that the plaintiff recover its costs to be
taxed. The premises upon which the decree operated were
described in it as follows Beginniiig at a point 1520 feet north
of the southwest corner of lot 4 in section 21, township 75
north, range 44 west, of. the fifth principal meridian, running
Ithence north 660 feet, thence east 1320 feet, to the extension
due north of the east boundary line of said lot 4, as originally
surveyed.and'platted by the United States, thence south on
that line 660 feet, and thence west to the place of beginning,
containing 20.acres. The decree further stated that the defendant prayed an appeal to this court, and that it was allowed.
.Mb Finley Burke for appellant,
I. The allegations of the bill taken in conjunction with the
known character of the Missouri River, and its -bed, enable us
to deny that the new-formed lands are accretions. The appel]ant 'does not wish to be understood as assuming that the
cobrt will take judicial notice of the character of the particular lands in question. only that it will take judicial notice of
the characteristics of the Missouri River. United Slates v.
Lawton, 5 How 10, 26, Peyroux v. Howard, 7 Pet. 324.
The facts in-relation to this river are matter of common
knowledge. They .are shown in public documents, in the

JEFFERIS v. EAST' OMAHA LAND CO.
Argunent, for Appellant.

reports of surveys and soundings made by government
authority and even in the works on geography used in the
public schools. They are also shown by reference to histories
and works of travel and description. They are within the
knowledge of all persons living in tis region. But, waiving
for the present the common and general knowledge of these
matters, the bill itself supplies us with such information as is
needed for our present rurpose.
It appears that between 1851 and 187 the river moved
north a distance of one mile. It is said that this was done so
slowly as to be imperceptible at any one time. Then suddenly it cut through its-banks at a point some miles south but
yet further up the river as it then existed and left its-old bed.
and courses and made for itself a new one at this great distance.
These allegations show that this river is one, the changes in
whose channel are frequent, rapid and very great. Its course
is tortuous, and it flows through a wide valley of soft, sandy
loam. We also know that at certain seasons of the -year it has
a very rapid current and large volume. Its waters are turbid
with mud and washings from the mountains.
fuch of the
soil of the .bed is of that character called quicksand, the particles of which glide easily upon -each other, causing large tracts
of land to fall into the river, thus cutting and changing its
banks. The current of the river impinges first upon one side
and then upon the other, so that sometimes in a single season
new land of great extent is formed. The land which is
washed away upon one side of the river is usually carried by
the current a great distance and then thrown up as a sand-par
upon the other side.
Some care ought to be exercised in applying-the doctrmeQf
accretion.in such a region. The law on this subject is borrowed from England where it was applied to tidal rivers. It
is well kn6wn that the rivers of England in which the tide
ebbs and flows are rivers in whose banks the changes are very
slight and cover a long period of- time.
The test of the applicability of the doctrine is, whether the
land is formed so slowly as to be imperceptible, If fhe new

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellant.

formation can be discerned the doctrine does not apply Imperceptible, in this sense, means what is not discernible when
the situations at two periods, somewhat apart, are compared.
Re v. YarborougA, 3 B. & 0. 91, S. C. (House of Lords) 2
Bligh (N. S.) 147.
While it is true that a case can be imagined where the made
land had formed in such a slow and gradual manner as to be
accretion and be governed by the law thereof upon the banks
of the Missouri River, yet taking the known character of that
river in connection with the allegations of the bill, which show
affirmatively that this river is one in which the changes are
frequent, rapid and great, and that the land in question formed
with a rapidity which, in England, would have been contrary
to all ideas of accretion, we submit that the bill shows on its
face, in connection with the facts of which judicial notice is
taken, that the doctrine of accretion does not apply to the
land in dispute. As "imperceptible" means, what is not discernible when the situation at two periods not widely apart is
compared, it would seem to be a great hardship to apply the
doctrine of accretion to such changes, where what is formed on
one side and lost on the other is transferred so rapidly, and
where the land is easily identified as being the quarter section
or the fractional lot which, last year, belonged to a neighbor
on the opposite side of the stream.
The words "slow" and "imperceptible," as understood by
a conservative English landowner, mean quite different ideas
from-what they do to an active denizen of Omaha, Nebraska.
The word "slow" as applied to changes in the banks of the
Thames from Blackwall to its mouth may have quite a different meaning from that of the same word applied to changes in
the Missouri River. The bill shows a change of a mile in
about nineteen years, "1imperceptible" at any one moment of
time. The law of accretion can have no application to such
changes.
IL 'Taking the allegations of the bill most strongly against
the pleader we have a right to assume that some area, however narrow, had formed between the original lot four (4) and
the river after the date of the survey and before the time

JEFFERIS v. EAST OIAHA LAND CO.
Opinion of the Court.

when the land was entered. If so, said strip belonged to the
'United States, and the accretions, if any, subsequently formed
should go to the government. The right to alluvion depends
on contiguity, and the accretions belong to. the land immediately adjoining the water, however narrow it may be, or whatever may be the size of the parcel behind it. S&ulet v. Skepherd, 4 Wall. 502, Grangerv. Swart, 1 Wool. 0. C. 88.
II. Conceding that the entry of Edmund Jefferis passed
from the government to Edmund Jefferis all the land to the
river, still the bill fails to show that the deed of Jefferis to Still
and Town by apt words .described the land which may have
formed between the date of his entry and the date of the deed..
The bill states that by several mesne conveyances the complainant acquired the title to lot four (4) in the year 1886. It
also states that between 1853 and 1877 some forty (40) acres
of land were .formed between the lot line and the river line of
187.7, but it fails to state that any of the chain of deeds under
and through which complainant clains title, contained descriptive words covering and including any part of these forty (40)
acres of added land. The question is: What passed" by the
successive deeds of lot four (4) under which complainant
claims?
If the land in question .s to be regarded as accretion, we
claim that it does not pass by a deed describing only- the land
to which such accretion has been made. Granger v Swart,
ub? sup.,, Iammers v Nissen, 4 Nebraska, 215, Iamb v
Rickets, 11 Ohio, 311, Jones v onston, 18 How 150.
MWJ r

f . Woolworth and -Mr C. '. Greene for appellee.

M-u. JUSTICE.BLATCHFOED, having stated the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

The grounds upon which the Circuit Court proceeded in
overruling the demurrer to the bill are stated by it in its opin-

ion to be these: (1) It being alleged in the bill that the added
land was, formed by "imperceptible degrees," although the
increase was great, resulting in the addition of many acres,
yet the time during which it was made was nearly twenty

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

years, and an increase might have been going on, imperceptible from day to day and from week to week, which, during
the lapse of so many years, might result in the addition of all
the land, and hence the averment of the bill cannot be-overthrown, notwithstanding what is known of the character of
the Missouri River and of the soil through which it flows, and
of the rapid changes in its banks which are constantly going
on. (2) Where a water line is the boundary of a given lot,
that line, no matter how it shifts, remains the boundary, and
a deed describing the lot by number or name conveys the land
up to such shifting water line, exactly as it does up to the
fixed side lines, so that, as long as the doctrine of accretion
applies, the water line, no matter how much it may shift, if
named as the boundary, continues to be the boundary, and a
deed of the lot carries all the land up to the water line.
The propositions contended for by the defendant are these
(1) .Taking the allegations of the bill with those facts in relation to the Missouri River of which the court will take judicial
notice, it appears that the formation in question was not accretion. (2) Taking the allegations of the bill most strongly
agamst the plaintiff, it must be assumed that some area, however narrow, had formed between the tune when the survey
was made, in 1851, and the time when the land was entered
by. the patentee, in October, 1853. (3) The patentee, by the
deed made by him to Still and Joseph I. Town, conveyed only
"lot 4," and, while the successive grantees held the title to
that lot, accretions were formed of greater or less extent,
which were never conveyed to the plaintiff, the deeds to it calling only for lot 4. The substance of this contention is that, as
the conveyance by-the patentee to Still and Joseph I. Town
described the land simply as "lot 4," it passed the title to that
lot as it was at the date of the survey in 1851, and not at the
date of the deed, in 1856, and thereby excluded the new land
formed after the survey of 1851, and that, as accretions of
greater or less extent were formed while the several successive
grantees held the title, such accretions did not pass by their
respective deeds, and the title thereto has not come to the
plaintiff.

JEFFERIS v. EAST

MARA LAND CO.

Opinion of the Court.

It is distinctly alleged in the bill, that the new land is an
accretion to that originally purchased by the patentee from
the United States. The rule of law applicable to such a state
of facts is thus stated by this Pourt in New Orleans v .Unzted
States, 10 Pet. 662,'17 "The question is well settled at common law, that the person whose land is bounded by a stream
of water which changes its course gradually by alluvial formations, shall still hold by the same boundary, including the
-accumulated .soil. lNo other rule can be applied.on just principles. Every proprietor whose land is thus bounded is subject
to loss by the same means which may aidd to his territory;
and, as he is without remedy for-his loss in this way, he cannot be held accountable for his gain." And in .Banks v
Ogden, 2 Wall. 57, 67, it is said "The rufe governing additions made to'land bounded by a river, lake or sea, has been
much discussed and variously settled by usage and by-positive
law Almost all jurists and legislators, however, both ancient
and modern, have agreed that the owner of the land thus
bounded is entitled to these additions. By some, the rule has
been vindicated on the,principle of natural justice, that he who
sustains the burden of losses and of repairs, imposed by the
contiguity of waters, ought to receive whatever benefits they
may-bring by accretion, by others it is derived from-the principle of public policy, that it is the interest of the community
that all land should have an owner, and most convenient that
insensible additions to the shore should follow the title to the
shore itself."
It is contended by the defendant that this well-settled rule
is not applicable to.land which borders on the Missouri Rixer,
because of the peculiar character of that stream -and of the soil
through which it flows, the course of the river being tortuo~s,
the current rapid, and the soil a soft, sandy loam, not protected
from the action of water either by rocks or the roots of trees,
the effect being that the river cuts away its banks, sometimes
in a large body, and makes. for itself a new course, while theearth thus removed is almost simultaneously deposited elsewhere, and new land is formed almost as rapidly as the forner
bank was carried away

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

But it has been held by this court, that the general law of
accretion is applicable to land on the Mississippi River, andI
that being so, although the changes on the Missouri River are
greater and more rapid than on the Mississippi, the difference
does not constitute such a difference in principle as to render
inapplicable to the Missouri River the general rule of law
In Jones v Soulard, 24: How 41, it was held that a riparian
proprietor on the Mississippi River at St. Louis was entitled,
as such, to all accretions as far out as the middle thread of the
stream, and that the rule, well established as to fresh-water
rivers generally, was not varied by the circumstance that the
Mississippi at St. Louis is a great and public water-course.
The court said that 'from the days of Sir Matthew Hale all
grants of land bounded by fresh-water rivers, where the expressions designating the water line were general, conferred
the proprietorship on the grantee to the middle thread of the
stream, and entitled him to the accretions, that the land to
which the accretion attached in that case was an irregular
piece. of 79 acres, and had nothing peculiar in it to form an
exemption from the rule, that the rule applied to such a
public water-course as the Mississippi was at the city of St.
Louis, and that the doctrine that, on rivers where the tide
ebbs and flows, grants of land are bounded by ordinary highwater mark, had no application to the case, nor did the size of
the river alter the rule.
In Sacuet v Shepherd, 4 Wall. 502, the doctrine of accretion
was applied in respect of a lot of alluvion or batture in the
Mississippi River fronting the city of New Orleans, in favor of
the riparian proprietor, and it was held that the right to the
alluvion depended upon the fact of the contiguity of the
estate to the river, and that where the accretion was made to
a strip of land which bordered on the river, the accretion
belonged to such strip and not to the larger parcel behind
it, from which the strip, when sold, was separated.
In County of St. Clawzr v Lovngston, 23 Wall. 46, the same
doctrine was applied to a piece of land situated oh the east
bank of the Mississippi River opposite St. Louis. It was there
held that where a survey began "on the bank of the river,"

J-EFFERIS v. EAST OMAIU LAND CO.
Opmion of the Court.

and was earned thence "to -a point in the river," the river
bank being straight and running according to such line, the
tract surveyed was bounded by the river; that alluvion meant
the addition to riparian land, gradually and imperceptibly
made, through causes either natural or artificial, by the water
to which the land was contiguous; that the test of what was
gradual and imperceptible was that although the witnesses
might see from time to time that progress had been made, they
could not perceive it while the process was going on, and that
it was alluvion whether the addition was made on a stream
which overflowed its banks, or on one which did not. The
authorities on the subject are collected in the opinion in that
ease.
The rule is as applicable to the Missouri River as it is to the
Ifississippi, whether the principle on which it rests be that the
riparian owner is entitled to the addition to his land because
he must bear without compensation the loss of land caused by
the action of the water and any consequent expense of repair
to the shore, or whether that principle be one of public p.olicy,
in that it is the interest of the community that all lands should
have an owner, and most convenient that insensible additions
to the shore should follow the title to the shore.
In the present case, the land in question is described in the
bill as a tract of.40 acres and more. How much, if any of it
was formed between the date of the original survey in 1851
and the time of the entry in October, 1853, cannot be told,
nor how much was formed between 1853 and 1856, while the
patentee owned the lot, and so in regard to the time when it
was owned by each successive owner. There can be, in he
nature of things, no determinate record, as to time, of the steps
of the changes. Human memory cannot be relied on to A~x
them. The very fact of the great changes in result, caused br
imperceptible accretion, in the case of the Missouri River,
makes even more imperative the application to that river of
the law of accretion.
The bill must be held to state a fact, in stating that the land
in-question was formed by "imperceptible degrees," and that
the process, begun in 1853 and continued until 1870, resulting

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

in the production by accretion of the tract of 40 acres and
more, "went on so slowly that it could not be observed in its
progress, but at intervals of not less than three or more months
it could-be discerned by the eye that additions greater or less
had Deen made to the shore." The fact, as thus stated, is, that
-the land was formed by imperceptible degrees, within the
meaning of the rule of law on the subject, and it is not capable of any construction which would result in the conclusion
that the land was not formed by imperceptible degrees.
In the Roman law, it was said in the Institutes of Gains,
Book II, ยง 10 "Alluvion is an addition of soil -to land by a
river, so gradual that in short periods the change is imperceptible, 6-, to use a common expression, a latent addition."
Justinian says, Institutes, Book II, title 1, ยง 20" "That is
added by alluvion, which is added so gradually that no one
can perceive how much is added -at any one moment of time."
The same rule was introduced into English -jurisprudence.
Bracton says, Book II, c. 2 "Alluvion is a latent increase,
and that is said to be added by alluvion, whatever is so added
by degrees, that it -cannot be perceived at what moment of
time it is added, for although you fix your eyesight upon it
for a whole day, the infirmity of sight cannot appreciate such
subtle increments, as may be seen in the case of a gourd, and
such like." Blackstone says, 2 Com. 262 "And as to lands
gained from the sea, either by alluvon, by the washing up of
sand and earth, so as in time to make terr fma,
or by derelicton, as when the sea shrinks back below the usual water
mark, in these cases the law is held to be, that if this gain be
by little and little, by small and imperceptible degrees, it shall
go to the owner of the land adjoining. For de m.nzmzs non
curat lex; and besides, these owners being often losers by the
breaking in of the sea, or at charges to keep itout, this possible
gain is therefore a reciprocal consideration for such possible
charge or loss."
The whole subject 'ias fully considered in England, in the
.case of Rex v Lord TYxrborougA, in the King's JPench, 3 B. &
0. 91,
.C. in the House of Lords, 2 Bligh N..S. 147 and 1
Dow & CL 178, S. 0.sub. nom. Giford v. Lord Yawborough,

JEFFERIS v. EAST OMAHA LAN]) CO.
Opimon of the Court.

in the House of Lords, 5 Bing. 163, where it was decided m
eklect that i- cases of alternate accretion and decretion, the
riparian proprietors had movable freeholds; that is, moving
into the river with the soil as it was imperceptibly formed,
and then again receding, when by attrition it was worn away
Lord Yarborough owned lands immediately adjoining the sea,
to prevent the encroachment of which upon his lands he"
built sea walls on: two sides. The ooze, sand and soil from the
sea were gradually deposited outside of and against these
.walls, until, by the accretion, some 450 acres of land- were
made in a short -time, which the Crown claimed against him.
But the court of the King's Bench held, and the decision was
affirmed by the House of Lords, that, the land being formed
by the gradual and imperceptible action of the sea, Lord
Yarborough and not the Grown was entitled to it. See, also,
In e Bull &t Selby Railway, 5 X. & W 327, Scratton v.
Brown, 4 B. & 0. 485.
The doctrine of the English cases is, that accretion is an
addition to land coterminous with the -water,which is formed
so slowly that its progress cannot be perceived, and does not
admit of the view ihat, in order to be accretion, the formation
must be one not discernible by comparison at two distinct
points of time.
In N'tew Orleans v. United States, supra, the accretion was
140 feet in width, formed in 22 years. In County o! St. Caqr
v Lowngston, supra, the court says "In the light of the
authorities, -alluvion'may be defined as an addition to riparian
laud, gradually and imperceptibly made by the water to which
the laind is contiguous.
The test as to what- is- gradual and imperceptible in"the sense of the rule is, that though
the witnesses may see from time to time that progress has
'been made, they could not perceive it while the process was
going on." To the same effect are Jones v. J'ohnston, 18
How 150, Jones v Soulard, 24 How 41, Schools v. Risley,
10 Wall. 91, Hrasey v. McCormick, 18 N.'Y. 141;. MuZry v
iYorton, 100 N. Y 424, Holks Academy v. Dzckison, 9
Cush. 544, Camden & Atlantic Xand Co. v .L.ppmcott, 16,
Vroom (45 N. J. Law); 405.
VOL. cxxxlv-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Comt.

The accretion set forth in the bill is alleged to have taken
place between 1853 and 1870, and it is not alleged that the
sudden change in the course of the river in 1877 caused any
accretion. There is no suggestion in the bill that the land
made by the accretion can be identified as having been previously the land of any particular person. There can be no
identification unless there is a suaden change, and that is the
very opposite of an imperceptible accretion.
We come now to consider the question of whdt passed by
the description in the patent of the land as lot 4, containing
37.24 acres, according to the official plat of- the survey of the
land, returned to the General Land Office by the surveyor
general.
The bill alleges that in 1851, when the township was surveyed, the.meander line of the river, as marked on the plat,
ran along the bank of the river, and that at the time of the
entry in 1853 the meander line of the left bank of the river
was the same, or nearly the same, as that shown by the fieldnotes and on the plat made, returned and approved in 1851.
On these facts it is contended for the defendant that the title
to any new land which may have been made between 1851 and
1853, by accretion, did not pass to the patentee by the grant of
lot 4 in the patent, but remained in the United States. The
plaintiff, on the other hand, contends that the description in the
patent of the land as lot 4 in effect made the river the boundary
on the north, and passed the title of the United States to any
new land that might have been formed before that time.
The bill states that the register's certificate and the patent
described the land as lot 4, in fractional section 21, in
township 75 north, range 44 west, of the fifth principal
meridian, containing 37.24 acres, according to the official plat
of the survey of said land, returned to the General Land Office
by the surveyor general. That plat, of which a copy is
annexed to the bill and marked Exhibit A, shows the Missouri
River a the north boundary of lot 4, and that lot is marked
on the plat as containing 37.24 acres.
It is a familiar rule of law, that, where a plat is referred to
in a deed as containing a description of land, the courses, dis-

JEFFERIS v. EAST OM.ATA LAND CO.
Opinion of the Court.

tances, and other particulars appearing upon the plat are to be
as mutih regarded, in ascertaining the true description of the
land and the intent of the parties, asif they had been expressly
enumerated in the deed. Fox v. Unton Sugar _?ery,
109 Mass. 292. This. rule is applicable to government lands
bounded by the Missouri River, as the same are surveyed
and platted under the acts of Congress, and the patent passed
the title of the United States to lot 4, not only as it was at
the time of the survey in 1851, but as it was at the date of the
patent in 1855, so that the -United States did not retain any
interest m any accretion formed between the survey in 1851
and the date of the patent.
No different rule is established by the acts of Congress
which provide for the survey and .sale of the public lands.
The provisions found in section 2395 et seq. of the Revised
Statutes, in regard to the survey of the public lands, are
reenactments of statutes passed in 1796, 1800, 1805, 1820
and 1832. According to these provisions, section 21 being
a fractional section, because the river cut through .idt on its
north side; theeast and west side lines of lot 4 were to be run
north to the river. No provision -was made for running the
north boundary line of lot 4, but the river formed such north
boundary without the running of any line there. The statute
provided, that where the course of a navigable river rendered
it impracticable to form a full township of six miles square,
and in those portions of fractional townships where no opposite corresponding corners, could be fixed, to which to run
straight lines from established corners, the boundary lines
should be a-certained by-running from the established corners,
due north and south or east and west lines, as the case might
be, to the watercourse, Indian boundary line, or other external
boundary of such fractionil township.
In the present case, the plat was made m accordance with
the stathte, showing the river as the northern boundary of
fractional section 21'and of lot 4 therem, and, as the patent
referred to the official plat of the survey, and thus made that
a part of the description of lot 4, that description made the
river the boundary of lot 4 on the north.

OCTOBER TE]M, 1889.
Opinion of the Court-

In Railroad Co. v. Schurmes, 7 Wall. 212, this court said
"Meander lines are run in surveying fractional portions of the
public lands bordering upon navigable rivers, not as boundaries
of the tract, but for the purpose of defining the sinuosities of
the banks of the stream, and as the means of ascertaining the
quantity-of the land in the fraction, subject to sale, and which
is to be paid for by the purchaser. In preparing the official
plat from the field-notes, the meander line is represented as
the border line of the stream, and shows, to a derilonstration,
that the water-course, and not the meander line, as actually
run on the -land, is the boundary"
We are, therefore, of opinion, that the patent of June. 15,
1855, which described the land conveyed as lot 4, according
to the official plat of the survey, of which a copy is annexed
to the bill marked Exhibit A, conveyed to-the patentee the
,title to all accretion which had been formed up to that date.
The case of Jones v Johnston, 18 How 150, is cited by the
defendant as holding that a grantee can acquire by his deed
only the land described in it by metes and bounds, and cannot
acquire, by way of appurtenance, land outside of such description. But that case holds that a water line, which is a shifting
line and may gradually and imperceptibly change, is just as fixed
a-,boundary in the eye of the law as.a permanent object, such
as a street or a wall, and it justifies the view announced by
the Circuit Court in its opinion, that where a water line is the
boundary of a given lot, that line, no matter how it shifts,
remains the boundary, and a deed describing the lot by number or name conveys the land up to such shifting line exactly
-as it does up to a hixed side line. See, also,. Lamb v 1?okets,
11 Ohio, 311, Giraud's Lessee v Hughes, 1 G. & J 249,
_Yaut v Crawford,18 Iowa, 549.
These views result in the conclusion, that the side lines of
lot 4 are to be extended to the river not as the river ran at tLh
time of the survey in 1851, but as it ran at the date of the
patent in 1855, and that all the land which existed at the latP
ter date, betweer the side lines so extended and between the
line of the lot on the south and the river on.the north, was
conveyed by the patent.

JEFFERIS v. EAST OM AH.

LAITD CO.

Opunon of the. Court..

All the grantors in the deeds made subsequently to the patent, including the patentee, described the land in their successive deeds as lot 4. It is 'contended by the defendant, that
this description conveys the land as it was at the date of the
entry, or, at most, at the date of the patent, that as, from the
allegations in the bill, -itmust be intended that some accretion
was formed between July 14, 1856, the date of the deed by the
patentee, and September 21, 1857, the- date of the deed by
Joseph I. Town to McCoid; the description of the land as lot 4
in the latter deed was not adequate to pass to the grantee the
new land, and, therefore, all the land which, was formed after-wards belonged to Still and Joseph I. Town, and not to
McCoid, also, that if, m point of fact, there was no accretion
between July, 1856, and September, 1857, there must have
been accretion subsequently, while some of the successive
grantees held the title prior to 1870.
But we think that in all the deeds the accretion passed by
the description of the land as lot 4. In making every deed
the grantor described the land simply as lot 4, and did not, by
his deed, nor does it- appear that he has since or otherwise, aet
up any claun to any accretion. It must be held, therefore,
that each grantor, by his deed, conveyed all claim not only to
what was originally lot 4,but to all accretion thereto. When
Mc~oid, in 1854, conveyed his interest m the premises by the
description of lot 4, as he had *taken a dbed of the .undivided
half of the premises by the same. description from Joseph I.
Town, in September, 1857, and had title thereby up to the
river, is north line was-the river, which was gradually adding
land to his land. Blow much was added during the time he
owned his undivided half he could not tell, and he conveyed
is ,interest to Coleman without any reservation. The same
is the case with each. successive grantor, and each must be
held to have passed by his deed his title to all the land up to.
the river, as the river was at the data of his deed. When
each successive owner took his title, lot 4 was a water lot,
having the rights of wharfage, landing and accretion, and
although new land was formed during his ownership, yet
when. he conveyed the premises he conveyed them by the same

