UNITED STATES v. JONES.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED 'STATES v. JONES.
APPEAL FROM TEE

OORT OF CLAIMS.

No. 1654. Submitted March 3,1890.-Decided March 24,1890.

The decision of a commissioner of a Circuit Court of the United States
upon a motion for bail and the sufficiency thereof, and his decision upon
a motion for a continuance of the hearing of a criminal charge, are
judicial acts in the "hearing and deciding on crninmal charges" within
the meaning of Rev. $tat. ยง 847, providing for aper diem compensation
in such cases.
The approval of a commissioner's account by a Circuit Court of the United
States is pnma facze evidence of its correctness, and, in the absence of
clear and unequivocal proof of mistake on the part of the court, should
be conclusive.

Tins was an appeal from a judgment rendered by the Court
of Claims against the United States in favor of Richard M.
Jones, for services renderea by him as a commissioner of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
North Carolina.
The material facts of the case, as found by the court upon.
the evidence, were,.that the claimant had been a commissioner
of the said court from 1883 to the bringing of the action, that
from December 3, 1885, to June 30, 1886, as such commissioner, he issued warrants in six cases in which issue was
joined and testimony taken, in three cases m which issue was
,joined and no testimony was taken, and in three cases in
which issue was not joined, the defendants discharged, and no
testimony -taken, and that he duly made his docket entries in
each and all of those cases by order and authority of the court,
and m the manner required by its rules.
His accounts for fees and for keeping his dockets were
verified by oath, and .presented to the court in the presence of
the district attorney, and approved by the court in due form.
For those accounts, thus approved, he was allowed a fee of
three dollars in each case where issue -was joined and testimony taken, two dollars where issue was joined but no
testimony taken, and one dollar where issue was not joined,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellants.

and 'the .defendant discharged. His account -also showed
charges on eleven different days from March 12, 1884-, to September 15, 1887, in as many criminal cases, each of which
charges was either "for hearing and deciding on criminal
charges, in deciding on amount of bail and sufficiency thereof,"
or "for hearing and deciding on criminal charges, in hearing
and deciding on motion for continuancer These charges were
approved by the Circuit Court, but not paid.
The court found as a conclusion of law that'the claimant
was entitled to $55 for these last eleven cases, and entered a
judgment in his favor for $76. From -that. judgment the
United States brought this appeal.
The only assignment of error presented by the government
in this appeal was, that the court erred in finding that claimant
is entitled to $55 for hearing and deciding on amount of bail
and sufficiency thereof in four cases,'-and for hearing and de
e.iding on motion for continuance in seven cases.
_Mr Aswtant Attorney GeneralCotton andMr F P Dewe&
for appellants.
The words "1hearing and deciding on criminal charges" are
plain and unequivocal in meamng and without ambiguity
The words have application to the charges made and the.
hearing and decision thereon. There must be a "hearing"
relative to the "c A arges" and a "deciding" of some point
/
The granting of a motion for a
relative -to the "charges Y
continuance is the deferring of "hearing and deciding on
ciiimial charges." A determination upon the sufficiency of
bail is either precedent or subsequent to the "hearing and deciding on eriminal charges."
The approval of a commissioner's account by a Circuit Court
of the United States under the provisions of the act of February 22, 1875, 18 Stat. 333,:c. 95, is not a judicial determination of the rights of the parties. It is przma faei evidence
that the work was done. Turner v United States, 19 C. Cl.
629; W~allace v United States, 116 U. S. 398.
It is not disputed.in the case at bar that continuances were

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
Counsel for Appellee.

granted and bail taken by commissioner. His power to render such service is admitted. It is recognized that a commissioner exercises functions of the highest importance to the
administration of justice. His powers are fixed by law and
enumerated by Mr. Justice Field m Unsted -States v. &keumann, 2 Abb. (U. S.) 523.
The payment of the commissioner is by prescribed fees and
only such fees can be paid for services.
It is not contended that for "" hearing and deciding" the
commissioner must be employed the whole of one day, but if
he hears and decides a -number of cases on the same day, payment can only be allowed for one. It therefore follows that
the payment is not only intended for the service, but that the
"time actually employed" is an element to be considered.
The construction given to -a statute by the executive or
accountin officers has been held by this court to be entitled
to respect It appears that on this subject -there was conflict
of opimon. The views of the accounting officers of the treasury were overruled by Assistant Secretary Otto. For a number of years payments were made in accordance with his decision. Since 1883 the accounting officers have required proof
-of the character of the service before making payments. The
construction given by executive officers has, it will be seen,
not been umform.
To evade the construction of the law as given by the accounting officers, the present suit was brought in the Court of
Claims without any demand having been made on the treasury The case was decided by the court below in favor of
claimant as- coming within the decision m Hayrper's Case, 21
C. 01. 56. That case has not been reviewed by this court.
Attorney General Black, 9 Opinions Attys. Gen. 170, 171,
says "It is plain to me that exammiation of the person
ewrged means vnvesigation' of the case."
It is submitted that the words "hearing and deciding on:
criminal chaxge." do not include taking "bail" and "contmmug" cases.

&.r George A. Xing for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889:
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JuSTICE LAwtm; after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered tae opinion of the court.

A brief reference to the powers and duties of a .commissioner, as an examining and committing magistrate, will be sufficient. to dispose of the only question presented by this appeal.
Section 1014 of the Revised Statutes of the United States provides that, "for any crime or offence against the United States,
the offender may, by
any comrdissiondr of the Circuit Court to take bail,
be arrested and imprisoned,
or bailed, as the case may be, for trial before such court of the
United States as by law has cognizance of the offence. Copies
of the process shall be returned as speedily as may be into the
clerk's office of such court, together with the recognizances of
the witnesses for their appearance to testify m the case," etc.,
etc.
By section 1015 it is further provided that "bail may be admitted" by such commissioner "upon all arrests in criminal
cases where the offence is not. punishable by death."
By section 1982 such commissioners are vested with the
power to institute proceedings against persons violating any
of the provisions of chapter seven of the Title "Crimes."
Section 1983 provides for the increase of the number of
commissioners "so as to afford a speedy and convenient
means for the arrest and examination of persons charged
with the crimes referred to in the preceding section."
By section 1984 these oficers are vested with other important powers, and by section 1985 every marshal and deputy
marshal is required to obey and execute all warrants or other
process that the commissioners may issue in the lawful performance of their duties.
By other sections numerous duties of a purely clerical and
ministerial character are attached to. this office. The compensation of a commissioner is clearly prescribed and classified by
section 847 of the Revised Statutes according to the character
of the services performed. For acts purely clerical and ministerial, such as administering oaths, taking acknowledgments,
taking and certifying depositions to file, or furnishing a copy

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

of the same, specific fees are provided, and for issuing writs or
warrants or other services he has the same compensation as is
allowed to clerks for like services. For acts-not merely clertcal, but which are performed by the commissioner in his judi,,ial capacity, his fees are regulated on a basis of per diem
compensation. Among the provisions of this kind is the one
upon which this controversy has arisen, viz. "For hearing and
deciding on crnmnal charges, five dollars a day for the time
necessarily employed."
It is admitted that from March 12, 1884, to June 20, 1888,
the period covered by the claim in dispute, there came before
the appellee, in his capacity as commissioner, on eleven different days, eleven separate cases to be heard and decided against
various persons, each charged with a crime against the laws. of
the United States, that in four of these cases he heard and
decided motions upon bail, and the sufficiency thereof, and in
the other seven motions for continuance were heard and decided by him.
There can be but one answer, in our opinon, to the question
whether the commissioner should be allowed a fee of five dollars a day for his-services on those eleven days. The decision,
upon a motion for bail and the sufficiency thereof, is a judicial
determination of the very matter wich the statutes authorize
and require him "to hear and decide," to wit, whether a party
arrested for a crime against the United States, when brought
before him for examination, shall be discharged, or committed
on bail for trial, and in default thereof imprisoned. With
respect to motions for continuance, the granting or refusal of
them is unquestionably a necessary incident to, and a part of;
the hearing and determining of criminal charges, and the
exercise df that power in such criminal proceedings is indispensable to the right ofthe accused to have. a fair and full investigation of the offence- charged against him and to a sufficient
time for the summoning of his witnesses as well as for employing and consulting with counsel to aid him in his defence.
It is contended by the Assistant Attorney General that the
per diem fee in such case is not only intended for the service
specified, but that. the "time actually employed is also an ele-

