HILL v. MERCHANTS' INS. CO.
Syllabus.

appeal bond and a citation was issued, returnable at tne October term, 1886, dated April 30, 1886. The record herein was
filed October 19, 1886. The only appeal which from the
record before us appears tohave been prayed and allowed was
that of the 25th day of June, 1881.
But, as we have said many times before, inasmuch as the
record was not filed at the term succeeding the allowance of
the appeal, that appeal ceased to have any operation or effect,
and the case stood as 'if it had never been allowed. There
was no allowance of an appeal after that, and when the record
was filed on the 19th day of October, 1886, this was not done
in pursuance of an appeal still in forcei nor could an appeal
-hen have -been allowed, as two years had expired from the
ate of the final decree. This appeal was not "taken" as
'ovided, and we axe, therefore, compelled to dismiss it.
Vedit Company v ArkTansas Central Railway, 128 U. S. 258,
.hardsonv. Green, 130 U. S. 104,. Evans v State Yationa,
'e. nk,

ante, 330.
AfpeaZ dismssedfoor want ofjurwtdiction.

HILL v. MERCHANTS' MUTUAL INSURANCE COMIPAIY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE -STATE OF MSSOUR.
No. 215. Submitted March 19,1890.-Decided March 31,1890..

A state statute which confers upon a judgment 'creditor of a corporation,
when execution on a judgment against the corporation is returned unsatisfied, the power .to summon m a stockholder who has not fully paid
the subscription to his stock, and obtaan judgment and execution against
him for the amount so unpsid, in no way increases the liability of the
stockbolder to pay that amount; and, inasmuch as he was before then
liable to an action at law by the corporation to recover from him such
unpaid amount at law, as well as to a suit in equity; in common with other
simar stockholders, to compel contribution for the benefit of creditors,
no substantial right of the stockholder is violated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

TnE court, in its opinion, stated the case as follows

This writ of error brings up for re~xamination a judgment
of the Supreme Court of Missouri, and presents the question
whether a certain statute to which that judgment gave effect,
impaired the obligation of a contract arising out of a subscription by Britton A. Hill to the stock of an insurance company
created by the laws of Missouri.
By the second section of an act of the Missouri legislature,
approved March 3, 1857, creating the Washington Insurance
Company, il was provided in reference to subscriptions to its
stock, that, "at the time of subscribing ther6\shall be paid on
each share one dollar, and nine dollars more 'within twenty
days after the first election of directors, if any stockholder
fails to make such payment, such stockholder shall foifeit the
amount paid on such stock at the time of subscribing, the balance due on each share shall be subject to the call of the directors, and the said company shall not be authorized to make
any policy or contract of insurance until the whole amount of
shares subscribed shall be actually paid in, or secured to be
paid on demand by approved notes or mortgages on real
estate." The same act contained the following provisions.
"This act shall be, and the same is hereby declared, a public
act, and the same shall be deemed and construed as such and
the corporation established by this act shall be, and the same
is hereby exempted from the operation of §ections seven,
thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen and eighteen of article first
of the act entitled 'An act concerning corporations,' approved
November 23, 1855"; and said sections shall be deemed as repealed, so far as the same concern the corporation hereby
established." Laws of Missouri, 1856-7, pp. 544, 545, §§ 2, 8.
Sections seven, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen and eighteen of the above act of 1855, from the operation of which the
Washington Insurance Company was thus exempted, are as
follows
"§ 7. The charter of every corporation that shall hereafter
be granted by the legislature shall be subject to alteration,
suspension and repeal in the discretion of the legislature."

HILL v.. :MERCHA.NTS' INS. CO.
Statement of the *Case.
"
13. In 'all corporations hereafter created by the legislature, unless otherwise specified in their charter, in case of
deficiency of corporate property, or estate liable to execution,
the individual property, rights and credits of every member
of the copartne~ship, or body politic, having a share or shares
therein, shall be liable to be taken on execution, to an additional amount, equal to that of the amount of his stock, and
no more, for all debts of the corporation contracted during
his ownership of such stock, and such liability shall continue,
notwithstanding any subsequent transfer of such stock, for the
term of. one year after the record of the transfer thereof on
the books of the corporation, and for the term of six months
after judgment recovered against such corporation, in any suit
commenced within the year aforesaid
Proded, That in
every such case the officer holding the execution shall first
ascertain and certify upon such execution that he cannot find.
corporate property or estate.
"1§ 14. In such case, the officer may cause the property of
such stockholder to be levied upon by execution in the samemanner as if the same were against him individually, after
giving him forty-eight hours' previous notice of his intention,
and the amount of the debt or deficiency, if he resides within
the county, or if not within the county, to his agent, if he haye
any within the county, otherwise to the clerk or cashier or
some other officer of the corporation, unless such stockholder,
his agent, or the clerk orother officer, on demand and notice
as aforesaid, shall disclose and show to the execution creditor,
orthe said officer, corporate property or estate subject to execution sufficientleto satisfy said'execution and all fees.
"§ 15. Such creditor, after demand and notice as mentioned
in the. preceding section, at his election, may have an action
against any such 'stockholder or stockholders, on whom .suchdemand and notice may have been served, jointly or severally,
or so many of them as he may elect, to recover of him, or
them, individually, the amount of his execution and costs, or
of -the deficiency as'aforesaid, not exceeding the amount ofthe
stock held by such stockholder or stockholders.
1§ 16. The clerk,, or other .officer having charge. of -the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

books of any corporation, on demand of any officer holding
any execution against the same, shall furnish the officer with
the names, places of residence (so far as to him known) and
the amount of liability of every person liable as aforesaid."
"§ 18. Every corporation hereafter created shall give notice
annually in some newspaper printed in the county where the
corporation is established, and in case no paper is printed
therein, then in the nearest paper, of the amount of all the existing debts of the corporation, which notice shall be signed by
the president and a majority of the directors, and if any of
the said corporators shall fail so to do, all the stockholders of
the corporation shall be jointly and severally liable for all the
debts of the company then existing, and for all that shall be
contracted before such notice shall be given." Rev Stat. Missouri 1865, pp. 372-3.

By an act of the legislature of Missouri, approved February
9, 159, the Excelsior Insurance Company was created. That
aci, is as follows
"§ 1. That an insurance company be, and is hereby, established in the city of St. Louis, to be known -by the name and
style of the 'Excelsior Insurance Company,' the stockholders
of which are hereby -declared a body corporate and politic,
with the same amount of capital stock and -period of existence,
and the same rights, privileges and restrictions, as were conferred upon the 'Washing on Insurance Company' of St.
Louis, by an act of theGeneral Assembly of the State.of Missouri, approved March the third, eighteen hundred and fiftyseven, with the exception of so much of section eight of said
act, as declares the same a public act, and exempts said corporation from the operation of section eighteen of article first
of the act, entitled ' An: act concerning Corporations,' approved
November the twenty-third, !eighteen hundred and fifty-five.
"§ 2. James H. Lucas, Henry L. Patterson, Thomas Stein,
Morris Collins, James G. Brown and John C. Porter, or any
three of them, or such person or persons as they may appoint,
are hereby constituted commissioners to open books for subscription to the capital stock, in the same manner as is prescribed in the charter of.said Washington Insurance Company

HILL. v. 1IFMCHANTS' INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

This act to take effect from and after its passage." Sess. Acts
Missouri, 1859, p. U4.
Section 6, article 8 of the constitution of Missour 4 which
went into effect in 1865, provides as follows: "Dues from
private corporations shall be secured by such means as may
be prescribed by law, but in all cases each stockholder shall
be individually liable, over and above the stock by him or her
owned, and any amount unpaid thereon, in a further sum at
least equal in amount to such stock."
In order to give effect to this constitutional provision, the
legislature, by aha act which went into effect March 19, 1866,
amended section 13 of the above act of 1855, so as to read as
follows:
"1§11. If any execution shall have been issued against the
property or effect§ of a corporation, and if there cannot befound whereon to levy such execution, then such execution
may be issued against any of the stockholders to an extent
equal in amount to the amount of stock by him or her owned,
together with any amount unpaid thereon P'owded alWays,
that no execution shall issue against any stockholder except
upon an order of the court in-which the action, suit or other
proceeding shall have been brought or instituted, made upon
motion in open court, after sufficient notice in writing to the
persons sought to be charged, and upon such motion, such
court may order exegution to -issue accordingly"
Rev Stat.
Missouri, 1866, 328.
In July, 1866, Hill subscribed for 64: shares, of the par
value of $100- for -each share, of the stock of the Excelsior
Insurance Company, paying part cash and giving to the
company four notes for $750 each, dated respectively July 20,
1866, and one note dated July 11, 1866, for $1800. Each one of
these notes was payable on demauad to the order of the insurance company At the commencement of- these proceedings
his stock had become reduced to "37shares.
The constitution of Missouri of 1875 provided that "dues
from private corporations shall be secured by such means as
may be prescribed by law, but in.no case shall any stockholder
be individually liable in any amount over or above the amount
of stock owned by him or her." Art. 12, § 9.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

In 1879 the statutes of Missouri were revised, and the

above section of the act of 1866 was amended so as to read
as follows:
" § 736. If any execution shall have been issued against
any corporation, and there cannot be found any property or
effects whereon to levy the same then such execution may
be issued against any of the stockholders to the extent of
the amount of the unpaid balance of such stock by him or
her owned Prowded,always, That no execution shall issue
against any. stockholder, except upon an order of the court
in which the action, suit or other proceedings shall have been
brought or instituted, made upon motion in open court, after
sufficient notice in writing to the persons sought to be
charged, and upon such motion, such court may order execution to issue accordingly And prowdedfurther,That no
stockholder shall be individually liable in any amount over
and above the amount of stock owned."
The present action was brought under the statute last
quoted. It was commenced by notice to Hill on behalf of
the Merchants' Mutual Insurance Company that it would
move the Circuit Court of the-city of St. Louis for execution
against him, as a stockholder of the Excelsior Insurance
Company, for the balance unpaid upon his thirty-seven shares
of the capital stock of the Excelsior Insurance Company
The proceeding was docketed as a suit against that company
by the Merchants' Insurance Company Hill appeared, and
upon the trial of the action the court found.that the unpaid
balance on said shares was $2127.50. For that amount, with
costs, an execution was directed to be issued against Hill.
Upon appeal to the St. Louis Court of Appeals that judgment was affirmed, and the judgment of the Court of Appeals was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. 12
Missouri App. 148, 86 Missouri, 466.
M

G -M. Stewart for plaintiff in error.

Ur der the law as it stood when plaintiff in error subscribed
for his stock, a creditor of the Excelsior Insurance Co., if
there was an insufficiency of corporate property, had no action

HILL v.- MERCHANTS' INS. CO.
Argument for -Plaintiff in Error.

at law against a stockholder. His remedy was in equity in
behalf of himself and other creditors who might join him. In
such case the stockholder or stockholders so impleaded would
have had the right by answer, or cross-bill or both to have all
the other stockholders who were subject to assessments brought
into court and their respective liabilities determined, because
in the case at bar, when and long before this process was issued the Excelsior Insurance Company was in liquidation.
In Far'reildv Hunt, 71 IMissouri, 526, it was expressly decided, m reference to these very sections of the Revised Statutes of 1855, 1865 and 1879, that when a revision includes a
previous law, it is only thereby intended to continue it in
force, and not to make it operate as an original act to take
effect from the date of the.revised law, and that § 11, of the
act of 1865, could not retroact so as to affect Mrs. Hunt, a
stockholder under a charter of 1853.
This fact is apparently conceded, but it'has been argued by
counsel and by the courts below, that it is harmless inasmuch
as these statutes were only remedial, and did not prejudice
-the contractual rights of plaintiff in error.
By its charter the Excelsior Insurance Company was exempted from see. 7, c. 34, Rev Stat. Mo. 1855, c. 37, which
provided that the charter of every corporation which should
thereafter be granted should be subject to legislative control.
The plain meaning of this. provision is that no subsequent legislation could affect the charter rights of this corporation. Of
these, one was that a stockholder should not be subject to the
summary process invoked in this case. Another that when
called upon to pay his pro rata share of the indebtedness of
the company, when in liquidation, the amount he should pay
would he determined by the proportion which the total
amount of the unpaid stock due from solvent holders bore to
the total indebtedness of the company
In the court below it was argued that by his subscription
to the capital stock of the Excelsior Insurance Company, the
appellant agreed absolutely to pay the full amount of his subscription, and hence lie cannot complain that he has been
forced to pay it by this proceeding.

OCTOBEIC TERM, 1889.
Argument for -Plaintiff in Error.

With all due respect to the -lower court, we submit that a
subscriber to the capital stock. of this corporation did not un-conditionally agree to pay the full amount of his subscription,
nor is such the inflexible rule of law
It is true, he becomes liable, under certain contingencies, to
pay the same in full, but this is only when the necessities of
the corporate business require that each ihareholder shall pay
the full amount of his subscription.
This is especially true where the enterprise has been abandoned as in the case at bar. In such case there is no use for
capital excqpt for winding up the company's business.
If there are no unpaid creditors, the liability of a member
of the company to contribute his share of the capital, would,
by the implied terms of his contract, have ceased.
If, however, there are debts of the corporation to be paid,
then each shareholder agrees to contribute or pay. upon his
unpaid stock his pro rata share of such indebtedness, and,
when this is paid, his liability is at an end.
This court has decided that the remedy subsisting when a
contract was made, is a part of the obligation, and any subsequent law of the State, which so affects that-remedy as substantially to impair or lessen the value of that contract is forbidden by the Constitution of-the United States. Edwards v
Kearzy, 96 IT. S. 595, Seibert v. Leww, 122 U. S. 284, 294,
Denny v. Bennett, 128 U. S. 489, 494,495. This court has -also
held-that the remedy provided by the charter of a corporation
is the only remedy that -can be applied in recovering from a
-ttockholder for his unpaid. stock. Poltardv BaiZey, 20 Wall.
520, YTer y-v Tubman, 92 U. S. 156, ilornorv. IBeni-ng, 93
U. S. 228, Fourth Nat. Bank v Araneldyn, 120 U. S. 747.
The proceeding in the case at bar was such that plaintiff in
-error could interpose no pleadings. The only defence possible
to him was to show the amount .unpaid on his stock, but he
could not show that under the contract made. when he subscribed -for the stock he was only liable for his pro rata share.
In other words, he was denied the right To show the total in.debtedness of the company, or the amount of unpaid stock
held, by solvent stockholders and thus establish the extent of

HILL v. MERCHANTS' INS. CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

his liability. He codld not even show that there were available corporate assets to pay the debt of defendant in error.
A subsequent act, which impairs rights acquired, or creates
new grounds of action,. or takes away defences which might
be made under existing laws, or imposes new liabilities in
respect of past transactions, is unconstitutional. Hope .Mut.
Ins. Co. v Flynn, 38 Missouri, 483,
. C. 90 Am. Dec. 438,
Provident 8s6 ngs Inst. v Bathing 1snk, 52 Missouri, 557,
Fatrchild v. Hunt, 71 Missouri, 526, 531., Woart v. Winnzek,
3 N. H. 473, 477, Soczety for Propagation of Gospel v
WhFeeler, 2 Gallison, 105.
At common law no action would lie by a creditor of the
corporation against a stockholder, because there was no
privity of contract between them, though in equity he could
have a bill against all or some of the stockholders of an msolvent corporation, upon an equity worked out through the liability of the corporation to him and of the stockholders to the
corporation for a balance of unpaid stock, by a species of subrogation, to compel them to contribute their pro ratashares
(within the-amounts owed by them) towards making up the
amount of the creditor's demand against the corporation, in
which an account could be taken, and claims of set-off and
other equitable defences could be adjusted, and an apportionment made of the common burden among all the defendants.
Lionberger v Broadway Savngs Bank, 10 Missouri App. 499,
Vose v. Grant,15 Mass. 505, Spear t, Grant,16 IMass. 915,
TFood v. Dummer, 3 Mason, 308, Briggs v. Pennman, 8
Cowen, 387, . C. 18 Am. Dec. 454, Nathan v Wlhitlock, 9
Paige, 152; _Mi7/nn v Pentz, 3 N. Y (3 Comst.) 415, 422.
The case of Hate v. .Dana, 101 U. S. 205, does not militate
against this position. In that case a bill in equity was brought
to enforce a demand against an insolvent corporation, against
several but not all of the stockholders, and in answer to a
complaint made, on appeal, that all should be joined, this
court said that this was not necessary, inasmuch as those
stockholders who were impleaded could secure the necessary
protection by applying for a -receiver, or by filing a cross-bill
they might have obtained a discovery of the other stock-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

holders, brought them in and enforced contribution from all
who had not paid their stock subscription. In the proceeding
invoked in the case at bar, plaintiff in error was deprived
of all these rights, and it is that of which we complain and
which we insist was guaranteed to him h/-the charter of his
corporation, and of which he could not be legally deprived by
subsequent legislation.
_Mr' Everett W Pattmon for defendant in error.
MRh_.JUsTicE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error contends that the act creating the
Excelsior Insurance Company was a private act, and its charter
exempted .from alteration, suspension or repeal by subsequent
legislatioil, that its stockholders were exempted from the levy
of an execution upon their individual property at the instance
of a judgment creditor of the corporation in case of a deficiency of- corporate property, and from actions at law by creditors, that the rights of its stockholders were not affected by
subsequent legislation of a general nature, and that the
method of collecting unpaid stock, specially provided for in
the company's charter, was exclusive of any other remedy,
except that supplied by a court of equity
The assignment of error which gives this court jurisdiction
to reexainine the judgment of the state court is, that when
the testator of the plaintiff in error purchased the stock of the
Excelsior Insurance Company he entered into a contractual
relation, not only with the company, but with the State, both
as to the method of paying for his stock, and m respect to the
extent of his liability, and that the rights vested in him by the
contract were taken away, and, therefore, the obligations of
his contract were impaired, by the legislation of 1879, the
validity of which was sustained by the court below
We assume, in conformity with the decision of the Supreme
Court of Missouri - and that view is favorable to the plaintiff
in error -that the Excelsior Insurance Company was not subject to the seventh section of the general statute of November
23, 1855, declaring that the charters of all corporations there-

'HILL v. MERCHANTS' INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

after created should be granted subject to alteration, suspension and repeal in the discretion of the legislature, and that
the other sections of that statute, specially namedin the charter of the insurance company, were to stand as repealed so far
as that company was concerned. The result of this construction of the charter of the insurance company is, that prior to
the passage of the act of 1866, which took effect March 19,
1866, no specific remedy was.prescribed for creditors seeking
to.reacb the unpaid subscriptions of stockholders. iBut it was
open to them to proceed by a suit in equity That such a
remedy could be used without violating any provision of the
company's charter, or any right of a stockholder, cannot be
doubted. But neither the company nor its stockholders had
any vested right in that particular remedy They could only
insist that the extent of their liability should not be increased.
The act of 1866 authorized an execution to be issued against
a stockholder "to an extent equal in amount to the amount of
stock by hn or her owned together with any amount unpaid
thereon," where no property or effects of the.corporation could
be found. This statute, if given a retrospective operation,
certainly did increase the liability of those who became stockholders in the Excelsior Insurance Company prior to its
passage. But the defendant in prror contends that it was
applicable to all who, like Hill, became stockholders after its
passage. Waiving any consideration of this question it is certain that the act of 1879, under winch this action was instituted, did not increase Hill's liability He was liable, by virtue
of his original subscription and by his notes to the company,
to pay the whole amount of his subscription. The statute of
1879 did not enlarge this liability, for it authorized an execution against a stockholder, where there was no corporate
property to be levied on, only "to the extent of the amount
of the unpaid balance of such stock by him or her owned."
While, under the original charter of the company, he was liable to a suit in equity, under the statute of 1879 he was liable
to be proceeded against by notice and Motion in the action in
which judgment was rendered against the corporation. .n
either mode he had opportunity to make defence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

It is, however, contended that under the charter of the
company the stockholder was not bound to pay-any amount
beyond ten dollars on each share except upon a call of the
directors, and that the provision allowing an execution for
the unpaid balance, pursuant to the judgment of the court,
was a change of the contract. The provision in the company's
charter, that "the balance due on each share shall be subject
to the call of the directors," Oid not give the stockholder the
right, as between himself and the company, or as between him
and the company's creditors, to withhold payment of the balance due from him until the necessities of the company required
payment ii, full for the shares subscribed. The company was
forbidden to make any policy or contract of insurance "until
the whole amount of shares subscribed shall be actually paid
in, or secured to be paid on demand,.by approved notes or
mortgages on real estate." Hence Hill executed demand
notes, withsurety, for the entire balance due- on his original
subscription. The authority of the company to call for the
payment of those notes, by instalments, did not give him a
right, as a part of his contract, to make payment in that particular mode. His undertaking was to pay each and all of his
notes on demand, .and it was entirely competent for the legislature, as a regulation. of the business and affairs of the company, to give its creditors -a new or additional remedy by
which this undertaking could be enforced in their behalf such remedy not increasing the debtor's liability As said by
this court in-.&wago L._ie Ins. Co. v -Needls,113 U. S. 5714,
580, the condition is implied in every grant of corporate existence that "the corporation shall be subject to such reasonable
regulations, m respect to the general conduct of its affairs, as
the legislature may, from-tune to tune, prescribe, which do
not materially interfere with or obstruct the substantial enjoyment of the privileges the State has granted, and serve only
to secure the ends for which the corporation was created."
Upon the point made by the plaintiff in error, that under
the original chaier of the company Hill was liable only to a
suit in equity, to which all the stockholders co-ald be made
parties, and in which he could compel contribution from other

