CLOUGH v. CURTIS.
Statement of the Case.

himselfa resident of New York, within a year after the cause
of action accrued, the instruction to find for the defendant
was right.

CLOUGH v. CURTIS.
BURKHART v. REED.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF IDARO.,
Nos. 1133, 1134. Argued January 27, 28, 1890.-Decided March 17, 1890.

The jurisdiction of the several, courts of the Territory of Idaho is a rightful subject of legislation by the territorial legislature.
An act of the territorial legislature conferring upon the Supreme Court
of the Territory original jurisdiction to issue writs of mandate, review,
prohibition, habeascorpus and all writs necessary to its appellate jurisdiction is not inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States,
or with any act of Congress.
Section 1910 of the Revised Statutes does not forbid a territorial legislature from conferring original jurisdiction upon the Supreme Court of
the Territory in such cases.
This court has jurisdiction over judgments of a territorial court: (1) denying. an application for a writ of mandamus to compel the secretary
of the Territory to record certain proceedings as part of the proceedings
of a session -of the legislature of the Territory; and (2) denying an
application for a like writ to compel the clef clerk of the House of Representatives of the Territory'to bring'his:minutes and journals into the
court in order that they may be there corrected in the presence of the
court; and it is hel7d that there wes no error in denying -applications for
such writs of mandamus, when they were not asked for by one claiming
to have a beneficial interest in sustaining or 'defeating the measures
which it was sought to have incorporated into the official records.
The courts of the United States cannot be required, in. a case -involving
no private interest, to determine whether partidular bodies, assuming to
exercise legislative functiQns, constitute a lawful legislative assembly.

Tm case, as stated by the court, was as follows
These .cases depend upon the same prmcples of law, and
will be considered together.
It appears from the record of the first one ( Wo. 1133) that-upon the petition of the appellant to the Supreme Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

the Territory of Idaho, an alternative writ of mandamus was
issued, stating substantially the following facts The appellant was and is the president of the Council of the 15th session of the legislature of Idaho, and the appellee is the secretary of that Territory On the 60th day of that session,
February 7,1889, the Council continued in session until midnight, and thereafter until about one o'clock of the succeeding morning. About the latter hour in the morning of the
8th day of February, 1889, a communication was received
from the chief clerk of the House of Representatives, announcing that that body had elected one George P Wheeler
as speaker'pro term. The petitioner declined to receive that
message as a message from the House, for the reason that the
latter body had no authority to elect a speaker after the expiration of the sixty days prescribed for the session by the act
of Congress, and the petitioner, as president of the Council,
announced to that bosky and declared "that, because the hour
of 12 o'clock and after had arri.ved, and the time had elapsed
in which the said legislature was permitted to transact business, therefore the said Council was adjourned without day"
He then inquired of the chief clerk if the adjournment was
recorded in the minutes of the proceedings of the session, and
received from him the reply that it was. The Council then
dispersed, and the petitioner and some of. the members left
the room, after which other members pretended to reorganize
the Council, and to elect one S. F Taylor president pro tern.
thereof, and to elect other officers of the Council, and, also,
assumed to transact legislative business, passing enactments
which the persons, so pretending to be a legislature, claimed
Wvere. acts of the legislature of the 15th session of the Territory Seventeen acts were so passed after the time had expired for holding-the session of the legislature.
The writ also stated that in making up a record of the sixtieth day of the legislative session the clerk did not thereafter.
show him the same, and petitioner never saw, until after the
clerk bad filed with E. J Curtis, the secretary of the Territory, certain papers which he claimed were the proceedings of
the sixtieth, day of the sessiou of the Council, but which. ii

CLOUGH v. CURTIS.
Statement of the Case.

fact, were a false and fictitious account of those proceedings,
signed by S. F Taylor, and -not signed by petitioner, president of the Council, as required by its rules and practice.
The petitioner found that a part of the minutes or records
had been out out, and that there were three stubs of leaves
which had been a part of the former proceedings of the
records or minutes of said session. The part of the minutes
reciting that 'the president of the Council declared the session
adjourned, and his reasons therefor, had oeen cut out and
were omitted from the minutes as filed with the secretary of
the Territory
On the 14th of February, 1889, the petitioner, as the president of the Council, called the attention of the secretary of
the Territory to said out leaves, stating to him the proceedings
that should have appeared therein, and handed to him a report
thereof as they actually occurred, demanding that the same
be incorporated with the proceedings of the legislature, and
recorded as a paru of the proceedings of the Council. The
defendant, Edward J. Curtis, declined to record the adjournment proceedings as A part of the proceedings of the legislature. The- petitioner then and there demanded that the report
as furnished by him be certified to Congress as part of the
proceedings of thd legislature of Idaho for the fifteenth session. But defendant refused to report the said adjournment
as a part of the proceedings. The petitioner, after having
stated and certified to him, as secretary of the Territory, that
all of the alleged proceedings, wherein it was stated that S. F
Taylor wag president pro tern., were had after the hour of 12
-o'clock, and after the adjournment of the Council by the president thereof, demanaed that the subsequent proceedings and
pretended legislation be not recorded as a part of the-proceedings of the legislature, and, if already recorded,. that the same
be expunged from the record of the proceedings of the fifteenth session of the legislature, all of which the secretary
declined to do, and he still declines to treat the proceedings
and acts signed by S. V Taylor, president ro. tern., as null
and void, and threatens to certify them to Congress as a part
of the proceedings of the Council.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of. the Case.

The record in the second case (No. 1134),shows that upon
the petition of H. Z. Burkhart, speaker of the House of Representatives of Idaho Territory, 15th session, an alternative
writ of mandamus was issued against Charles H. Reed, chief
clerk of that body, and Edward J Curtis, secretary of the
Territory, alleging the following facts
The defendant Reed, as such chief clerk, has in his possession the minutes of the proceedings of the last day of the session of the House of Representatives, which minutes have been
read and approved by that body, and so declared to it then
and there by the speaker on the last day of such session.
Thereafter the speaker asked the clerk if there was any further business before 'the House, and the latter replied there
was none. After the hour of 12 o'clock midnight of the 7th
day of February, 1889, being the 60th. and last day of the
session, the plaintiff, as speaker and acting as such, announced
that the time had arrived when by the act of Congress the
session closed by limitation of time, and declared the House
adjourned smne die. To that announcement there was no dissent by the House or *by any member thereof, but all acquiesced therein, and the speaker, acting as such, actually adjourned the House after the hour of 12 o'clock at night of the
60th day of the session. Upon su6h adjournment he and a
portion of the Representatives left the assembly room, and
thereafter several members of the legislature elected a speaker
and assumed to pass acts and to perform the duties of the
House.
The writ in this case also states that it was and is the duty
of the defendant Reed, as chief clerk, to make and keep correct and true minutes of the doings and proceedings of the
House, and upon their approval by the speaker it is his custom
and duty to sign the same as speaker. But Reed wrongfully
and fraudulently falsified said record of the minutes of the.
House on its last day's session, and took from and kept out of
the minutes the fact that the speaker had them read. and
approved, and declared the same duly approved, and that the
speaker asked the clerk if there was any further business, to
which the latter replied that there was none, and that the

CLOUGH v. CURTIS.
Statement of the Case.

speaker declared the House adjourned without day, according
to the laws of the United States, the time for the limit of the
tession having expired. He wrongly and falsely put into the
minutes of the last day's session the statement that, pending
the-reading of the journal, the speaker left the chair and went
out of the House, when, in fact, he did not leave the House
until after its final adjournment. The defendant Reed also
neglected and refused to allowthe speaker to inspect, revse, approve or sign the minutes, .and obtained the signature thereto
of one George P Wheeler, a. member of the legislature,
who was neither the speaker nor the actual speaker jro tem.
of the House. He filed with the defendant Curtis, secretary
of the Territory said falsified minutes as the true minutes of
the last day's session, although, the same, as the defendant
Curtis knows, were not signed by the speaker. as the law and
custom require. On the 7th day of' February, 1889, demand
was made by Lyttleton Price, in behalf of the speaker, the
plaintiff herein, that Curtis do not record or treat the proceedmngs after said adjournment as the proceedings of the House.
Yet Curtis, as secretary, is wrongfully ciaiming and pretending that said false and incorrect minutes are the real, true and
correct journals and minutes of the House, and is threatening to continue so to do, and to record and 'preserve those
minutes as a record' of the proceedings of the House on the
last day of its 15th session.
These are the essential facts aisclosed by the alternative
'writs of mandamus.
By the writ in the first case the defendant Curtis was commanded "to record the said report of the said proceedings
of the said Council as a part of the proceedings of the fifteenth session of the legislature of 'Idaho Territory," and "1to
expunge from the records of the said sixtieth day of the
session all the proceedings assumed to have been done while
S. F Taylor is alleged to be president of the Council, and to
strike from the files and records of the laws of Idaho those
pretended acts of legislation signed by S. F Taylor as President of the Council, or show cause," etc.
The writ in the other case commanded the defendants "to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Citations for Appellants.t

bring such minutes ,nd pretended minutes and journal of said
House of Representatives into court, that the same may be
corrected so as to state the facts, and that said Charles H. Reed
correct the same in accordance with the facts, so that it may
appear in the proper place in the minutes that said speaker
asked the clerk if there was any further business before the
House, and that the clerk said there was not, and that thereupon the minutes were read and approved, and that thereupon,
it then being 12 o'clock midnight, the said speaker announced
to the House that, the time having arrived when the session
must close according to the law of Congress, he therefore now
declared the House adjourned snne die, and that to the said
announcement -of the expiration of the time of the session there
was no dissent, and that to the said order of final adjournment
there was no objection., and that in every way and manner and
particular said Reed make said minutes correspond with the
facts, and be a full, true and complete record of said last day's
session of said House of Representatives, and be nothing otherwise, and that after being so corrected, the said speaker, H. Z.
Burkhart, may have an opportunity to sign said minutes as corrected, that the same be returned to the defendant Edward J
Curtis, as such secretary, or that, failing so to do," cause be
shown, etc.
In each case there was a demurrer upon these grounds 1,
The court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant
or of the subject of the proceeding; 2, The plaintiff has no
legal capacity to sue, 3, The petition and writ do not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action or proceedings
of this kind, 4, The writ is ambiguous and uncertain. In the
second case an additional ground was assigned to the effect
that several causes of action were improperly united. The
demurrers were all sustained, and the applications for writs of
mandamus denied.
.fr Arthur Brown and 2r Littleton, Price,for appellants,
cited Burnham v Morrissey, 14 Gray, 226, S. 0. 74 Am.
Dec. 676, -Hill v Goodwm, 56 N. H. 441, -Hendee v. Cleaveland, 54 Vermont, 142, Wise y Bigger, 79 Virgmia; 269,

CLOUGH v. CURTIS.
Opmion of the Court.

Smith v. .Moore, 38 Connecticut, 105, FarrelZ v Zing, 41
Connecticut, 448, Road Company v. Douglas County, 5 Oregon, 373, State v W-&sttit, 61 Wisconsin, 351, Bell v. Pike,
53 N. H. 473, Hlall v Somersworth, 39 N. H. 511, Justices'
Answer, 70 Maine, 560, Pnnce v Skillin, 71 Maine, 361,
Lamb v 4nd, 44 Penn. St. 336, Unon Pacfic ailroad
v Hall, 91 IT. S. 343, United States v Kendall, 12 Pet. 524,
608, United States v. Schurtz, 102 U. S. 378, People v
Sc sellezn, 95 N. Y 124, Haizngton v..Holler, 111 U. S. 796,
United States v. Gomez, 3 Wall. 752, People v Delaware
County, 45 N.Y 196, People v .Mostrand, 46 N. Y 375,
Hamilton v. Pttsburgh,34 Penn. St. 496.
.Mr George Augustus Jenkes, for appellees, cited Gardner
v. Collector, 6 Wall. 499, TFatkvns v Holman, 16 Pet. 25,
Peopvle v Commtsswners, 54 N. Y. 276, 279, Peopl,.v Devlin,
33N . Y 269, S. C. 88 Am. Dec. 377, Sheman v. Sto y, 30
Califorma, 253, S. C. 89 Am. Dec. 93, Post v. Supervzors,
105 U. S. 667, Ryan v. Lynch, 68 Illinois, 160, Spangler v.
Jacoby, 14 Illinois, 297, S. C. 58 Am. Dec. 571,. Dveiswn of
Howard County, 15 Kansas, 194, South Ottawa v Perknm, 94
U. S. 260, UnttedStates v. lark County, 95 U. S. 769, Supervzsors v. United States, 18 Wall. 71, Unsted States v Macon
County, 99 U. S. 582, -Em parte Rowland, 104: U. S. 612,
Secretary v -MaeGarrahan,9 Wall. 208, 313, United States v
Boutwell, 17 Wall. 601, Commonwealth v Supervsors, 29
Penn. St. 121, Ex parte Burtis, 103 U. S. 238, .XamwelU v.
Burton, 2 Utah, 595', People v Olds, 3 California, 167, . C.
58 Am. Dec. 398, People v. Thompson, 25 Barb. 73, State v
Smith, 44 Ohio St. 348, State v Yoffltt, 5 Ohio, 358, JKoehler
v. HilT, 60 Iowa, 543, In re Robert, 5- Colorado, "525, 528,
Turley v Zogan Co., 17 Illinois, 151, -. sparte Ac Carthy,
29 California, 395, Flint v. Woodhull, 25 Michigan, 99,
MR. JUsTm H nRLAN, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.
Certain questions of jurisdiction raised by the appellees
must be first examined. It is contended by them that. the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court of Idaho has no original jurisdiction, and that,
if it had, no appeal lies from its judgment in this case. Neither of these propositions is sound. The Revised Statutes
of the United States expressly declare that the jurisdiction,
both appellate and original, of the courts of Idaho "shall be
limited by law" § 1866. And by section 3816 of the Revised Statutes 6f Idaho it is provided that the jurisdiction of
the Supreme Court of that Territory shall be original and
appellate, and that "its original jurisdiction extends to the
issuance of writs of mandate, review, prohibition, habeas corPUS, and all writs necessary to the exercise of its appellate
jurisdiction." Of the power of the legislature of Idaho to
confer original jurisdiction upon the Supreme Court of the
Territory in such cases, there can be no doubt. Its power extends to all rightful subjects of legislation not inconsistent with
the Constitution and laws of the United States. Rev Stat.
§ 1851. The jurisdiction of the several courts of the Territory
is a rightful subject of legislation, and the above provision is
not inconsistent with the Constitution or any act of Congress.
It is contended, however, that the provision that each of the
District Courts in certain Territories, including Idaho, "shall
have and exercise the same jurisdiction, in all cases arising
under the Constitution and laws of the United States, as is
vested in the Circuit and District Courts of the United States,"
Rev Stat. § 1910, confers original jurisdiction, in cases of that
character, only upon the territorial District Courts. But that
section is not to be so interpreted. It does not forbid the legislature from giving original jurisdiction to the District Courts
of the Territory in cases other than those therein named. Accordingly, by the Revised Statutes of Idaho the jurisdiction of
the District Courts of the Territory is extended to all civil
actions for relief formerly given in courts of equity, m whlca
the subject of litigation is not capable of pecuniary estimation,
in which the subject of litigation is capable of such estimation.
and which involve the title or possession of real estate,.or the
legality of any tax, unjust assessment, toll, or municipal fine,
to all special proceedings, to the issuing of writs of mandate,
review, prohibition, habecs corpus, and all writs necessary to

CLOUGt v. CURTIS.
Opinion of the Court.

the exercise of its powers, and to the trial of indictments. Rev
Stats. Idaho, § 3830. Nor does section 1910 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States forbid the territorial legislature
from conferring original jurisdiction upon the Supreme Court
of the Territory in cases named in section 3816 of the Revised
Statutes of Idaho, although such cases may depend upon questions arising under the Constitution or laws of the,-United
States. If Congress had intended to confer upon the District
Courts of the Territories named exclusive jurisdiction in the
class of cases named in section 1910, it would have so declared
in express terms.
This question has been adverted to because the. jurisdi~tion
of this court to review the judgment below depends upon the
inquiry whether the present case is embraced by section 2
of the act of March 3, 1885, authorizing this court, without
regard to the sum or value in dispute, to review the judgment
or decree of the Supreme Court of-a Territory, in any case in
which is drawn in question the validity of an authority exercised under the United States. 23 Stat. 443, c. 355. Do
the cases now before us raise any question as to the validity
of an authority exercised under the United States? We are
of opinion that they do. By the Revised Statutes of the
United States, the legislative power in each Territory is
vested in the governor and a legislative assembly, the latter
-to consist of a Council ajgd House of Representatives. § 1846.
The alternative writ of mandamus proceeds upon the ground
that a body of persons claimed, but without right, to be respectively, the lawful Council and House of Representatives
of the Territory, usurped the legislative power conferred by
Congress upon the legislative assembly of the Territory and
passed enactments purporting to be laws of such Territory
III each case is directly draw-n in question the lawful existence
of those bodies as the Council and House of Representatives
of the -Territory, and consequently, the authority which they
have assumed, as the legislative assembly of the Territory, to
exercise under the United States. In this respect the present
case differs from Baltimore & Potomac 1ailrodad v. Hopgkns,
130 U. S. 210, 225, upon writ of error to the Supreme Court
VOL. cxxxiv-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

of the District of Columbia. In that case it was held that
the words in the-Act of lMarch 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 443, c. 355, the
validity of a "statute of or an authority exercised under the
United States" do not embrace a case, which depends only
on a judicial construction of an act of Congress, there being
no denial of the power of Congress to pass the act, or of the
right to enjoy whatever privileges are granted by it. The
case now before us is within the very letter of the act of 1885
because there is drawn in question the validity of an authority
exercised under the United States. Clayton.v Utah Terrstory,
132 U S. 632, 637. It is, consequently, our duty to inquire
whether the court below erred in withholding the relief asked
by the petitioners.
It is clear that such relief cannot be granted without deciding that the body over which George P Wheeler presided was
not the lawful House of Representatives, that the one over
which S. F Taylor presided was not the lawful Council, and
that the minutes filed with the secretary of the Territory,
purporting to be the record of the proceedings of the last day
of the fifteenth session of the legislature, were not true
minutes of that day's session prior to its legal termination, but
were, in part, minutes of the proceedings of persons who did
not constitute the Council and House of Representatives of
the Territory Those facts being determined in favor of the
petitioners the court is, "n effect, asked to take these minutes
into its own custody or under its control, to cause them to
be corrected in accordance with the facts as alleged by the
petitioners to exist, to order them, after being thus corrected, to be filed in the office of the secretary of the Territory
as the only true records of the legislative proceedings, in question, and to require that officer to expunge from the files
and records of the laws of the Territory the acts passed while
Taylor and Wheeler assumed to be the presiding officers, respectively, of the Council and House of Representatives of the
Territory And this relief, it is to be observed, is not asked by
any one claiming to have a beneficial interest in defeating or
in sustaining the enactments passed by the two bodies alleged
to have usurped the functions of a legislative assembly Rev

CLOUGH v. CURTIS.
Opimon of the Court.

We are all of opinion that there was no error in denying
these applications for writs of mandamus. We have not been
referred to any adjudged case that would justify a court in
giving the relief asked by the petitioners. And we do not
suppose that such a case can be found in any State whose
powers of government are distributed- as is the case in the
Territory of Idaho - among separate, independent and coordinate departments, the legislative, the executive and the
.judicial. 12 Stat. 808, c. 97, Rev Stat. § 1841, 1846, 1907.
"One branch of the government," this court said in the ,ink,mg Fund Cases, 99 U. S. t00, 718, "cannot encroach on the
domain of another without danger. The safety of our institutions depends in no small degree on a strict observance of
this salutary rule." It is not one of the functions of a court
to make up the records of the proceedings of legislative bodies.
lNor can it be required, in a case not involving the private interests of parties, to determine whether particular bodies,
assuming to exercise legislative functions, constitute a lawful
legislative assembly Such a question might indeed arise in a
suit depending upon an enactment passed by such an assembly And it might be that, in a case of that character, and
under some circumstances, the court would be compelled to
decide whether such an enactment was passed by a legislature
having legal authority to enact laws. How far in the decision of such a question the judiciary would be concluded by
the record of the proceedings of those bodies, deposited by
the person Whose duty-it was to keep it with the-officer designated by law as its custodian, are questions -we have no occasion at this time to consider. It is sufficient for the disposition
of the present case to say that the -court below properly refused to lay its hands upon what purported to be the record
of the proceedings of the legislative assembly of Idaho, in the
custody of- the secretary of that Terrifory, and to cause
changes or alterations to be therein made.
The cases cited by the appellants do not assert any different
doctrines in respect to the power of the courts over the record
of the proceedings of a co-ordinate department of- government. They go no further than to assert the rule that a

