OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel for Parties.

the verdict that they did, and that the judgment of the court
below, refusing to grant a new trial upon the facts, would
have been reversed, but for the existence of the statute, which
made it error to award it. Knoxville I'on Co. v. Dobson, 15
Lea, 409, 418.
Assuming that the validity of the statute was drawn in
question, yet there was clearly color for the motion to dismiss,
and the case may be disposed of upon the motion to affirm.
That motion is sustained, and the judgment is accordingly
Afflrmed.

UNITED STATES v. LACHER.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION IN OPINION

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN

DISTRICT

OF

NEW

YORK.
No. 654.

Submitted March 28, 1890. -Decided

April 14, 1890.

Section 5467 of the Revised Statutes creates two distinct classes of offences the one relating to the embezzlement of letters, etc., the other
relating to stealing their contents.
Sections 3891 and 5467 of the Revised Statutes are to be construed together
-the offences of secreting, embezzling or destroying mail matter which
contains articles of value beinit punishable under the one, and like
offences as to mail matter which does not contain such articles being
punishable under the other.
When there is an ambiguity in a section of the Revised Statutes, resort
may be had to the original statute from which the section was taken, to
ascertain what, if any, change of phraseology there is, and whether such
change should be construed as changing the law.
Penal statutes, like all others, are to be fairly construed according to the
legislative intent, as expressed in the act.
The court again declines to answer a certified question which contains no
clear and distinct proposition of law.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr Assistant Attorney General .A-aury for the plaintiff.
ir Benjamzn Barker, Jr., for the defendant.

UNITED STATES v. LACHER.
Opinion of the Court.

Mu.

CHIEF

JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The defendant, an employe in the post-office at N'ew York,
was found guilty of embezzling a letter containing an article
of value on an indictment under section 5467 of the Revised
Statutes. A hearing on motions for new trial and in arrest of
judgment before the circuit judge of the Second Circuit and
the district judge, holding the court, resulted in a division of
opinion upon the following questions, which were certified to
this court
"1. Whether an offence against the United States 'under
section 5467, Revised Statutes, is charged in either the first or
the third count of the indictment 2
"2. Whether the embezzlement by a person employed in a
department of the postal service of a -letter intended to be
conveyed by mail and containing an article of value, which
shall have come into the possession of such person, is made an
offence against the United States by ยง 5467 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, and whether, any penalty is prescribed for such embezzlement by said section 2 "
Section 5467 is as follows:
"Any person employed in any department of the postal
service who shall secrete, embezzle, or destroy any letter,
packet, bag, or mail of letters intrusted to him, or which shall
come into his possession, and which was intended to be conveyed by mail, or carried or delivered by any mail carrier,
mail messenger, route agent, letter-carrier, or other -person
employed in any department of the postal service, or forwarded through or delivered from any post-office or branch
post-office established by authority of the Postmaster General,.
and which shall contain any note, bond, draft, check, warrant,
revenue stamp, postage-stamp, stamped envelope, postal card,
money order, certificate of stock, or other pecuniary obligation or security of the government, or of any officer or fiscal
agent thereof, of any description whatever, any bank-note,
bank post-bill, bill of exchange, or note of assignment of stock
in the funds, any letter of attorney for receiving annuities or
VOL_ CXXXrv-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

dividends, selling stock in the funds, or collecting the interest
thereof, any letter of credit, note, bond, warrant, draft, bill,
promissory note, covenant, contract, or agreement whatsoever,
for or relating to the payment of money, or the delivery
of any article of value, or the performance of any act, matter
or thing, any receipt, release, acquittance, or discharge of -or
from any debt, covenant, or demand, or any part thereof,
any copy of the record of any judgment or decree in any court
of law or chancery or any execution which may have issued
thereon, any copy of any other record, or any other article
of value, or writing representing the same, any such person
who shall steal or take any of the things aforesaid out of any
letter, packet, bag, or mail of letters which shall have come
into his possession, either in the regular course of his official
duties or in any other manner whatever, and provided the
same shall not have been delivered to the party to whom it is
directed, shall be punishable by imprisonmenk at hard labor
for not less than one year nor more than five years."
It is argued that no indictment can be sustained under this
section against a post-office employe for secreting, embezzling,
or destroying any letter, packet, bag, or mail of letters intended to be conveyed by mail, etc., containing any of the
articles named, or any other article of value, and that the
only offence punishable under the section is that of stealing or
taking any of the things aforesaid "out of any letter, packet,
bag, or mail of letters." As secreting, embezzling or destroying letters, etc., containing articles of value, are plainly grave
offences, and are described in the section with particularity,
the intention to impose a penalty on their commission cannot
reasonably be denied, and although the apparent grammatical
construction might be otherwise, the true meanig, if clearly
ascertained, ought to prevail. If there be any ambiguity in
section 5467, inasmuch as it is a section of the Revised* Statutes, which are merely a compilation of the statutes of the
United States, revised, simplified, arranged and consolidated,
resort may be had to the original statute from which this section was taken to ascertain what, if any change of phraseology there is and whether such change should be construed as

UNITED STATES v. ILAOHER.
Opinion of the Court.

changing the law

Urnted States v Bowen, 100 U. S. 508,

513, Uzited States v ffirsch, lOQ U. S. 33, Myer v Car Co.,
102 U. S.1, 11. And it is said that this is especially so where
the act authorizing the revision directs marginal references, as
is the case here. 19 Stat. c. 82, ยง 2, p. 268, Endlich on Int.
Statutes, ยง 51. Accordingly, we find that this section took
the place of section 279 of the act of June 8, 1872 (17 Stat.
318), which reads as follows:
"That any person employed inany.department of. the-postal
service who shall secrete, embezzle, or destroy any letter, packet,
bag, or mail of letters intrusted to him, or which shall come
into his possession, and which was intended to be conveyed by
mail, or carried or delivered by any mail-catrier, mail-messenger, route-agent, letter-carrier, or other person employed in
any department of the postal service, or forwarded through or
delivered from any post-office or branch post-office, established
by authority of the Postmaster General, and which sh ll contain any note, bond, draft, check, warrant, revenue-stamp,
postage-stamp, stamped envelope, postal-card, money-order,
certificate of stock, or other pecuniary obligation or security
of the government, or of any officer or fiscal agent thereof, of
any description whatever, any bank-note, bank post-bill, bill
of exchange, or note of assignment of stock in the funds, any
letter of attorney for receiving annuities or dividends, selling
stock in the funds, or collecting the interest thereof; any letter of credit, note, bond, warrant, draft, bill, promissory note,
covenant, contract, or agreement, whatsoever, for or relating
to the payment of money, or the delivery of any article of
value, or the performance of any act, matter, or thing, any
receipt, release, acquittance, or discharge of or from any debt,
covenant, or demand, or any part thereof, any copy of the
record of any judgment or decree in any court of law or chancery, or any execution which may have issued thereon, any
copy of any other record, or any otber article-of value, or
writing representing the same, any such person who shall
steal- or take any of the things aforesaid out of any letter,
packet, bag, or mail of letters which shall have come into his
possession, either in the regular course of his. official duties, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

in any other manner whatever, and provided the same shall
not have been delivered to the party to whom it is directed,
every such person shall, on conviction thereof, for every such
offence, be unprisoned at hard labor not less than one nor more
than five years."
The words at the close of the section, "every such person
shall, on conviction thereof, for every such offence, be Imprisoned," are omitted in the revised section, and the question is
whether that change works the change in the law contended
for. It will be perceived that if the word "or," or the word
"and," were supplied before the words "any such person who
shall steal," etc., as having been omitted by way of ellipsis, a
course often pursued, the objection would have nothing to rest
on. But we do not think the supplying of any word is necessary If the comma after the word "directed," in the third
line from the close of the section as it appears in the Revised
Statutes, be treated as a semicolon, the result is the same, and
obviates any uncertainty in the matter. For the purpose of
arriving at the true meaning of a statute, courts read with
such stops as are manifestly required. Iammoclo v locn and
Trust CO., 105 U S. 7'7, S4, Unwted States v shan, 17 Wall.
496.
As contended on behalf of the defendant, there can be no
constructive offences, and before a man can be punished, his
case must be plainly and unmistakably within the statute.
But though penal laws are to be construed strictly, yet the intention of the legislature must govern in the construction of
penal as well as other statutes, and they are not to be construed so strictly as to defeat the obvious intention of the legislature. Unzted States v lfiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76, U'nited
States v 3l!ormzs, 14 Pet. 464, Ami. Fur Co. v ljhzted States,
2 Pet. 358, 367.
"It appears to me," said Mr. Justice Story, in Unsted States
v. Winn, 3 Sumner, 209, 211, "that the proper course, in all
these.cases, is, to search out and follow the true intent of the
legislature, and to a.lopt that sense of the words which harmonizes best with the context, and promotes in the fullest
manner the apparent policy and objects of the legislature."

UNITED STATES v. LACER.
Opinion of the Court.

To the same effect is the statement of :Mr. Sedgwick, in his
work on Statutory and Constitutional Law, 2d ed. 282 "The
rule that statutes of this class are to be construed strictly, is
far from being a rigid or unbending one, or rather, it has' in
modern times been so modified and explained away as to
mean little more than. that penal provisions, like all others,
are to be fairly construed according to the legislative .intent as
expressed in the enactment, .the courts refusing, on the one
hand, to extend the punishment to cases which are not clearly
embraced in them, and, on the other, equally refusing by any
mere verbal nicety, forced construction or equitable interpretation, to exonerate parties plainly within their scope."

This passage is quoted by Baron Bramwell in -Atorney General v Sillem, 2 IH. & 0. 532, as one "in which good sense,
force and propriety of language are equally conspicuous, and
which is amply borne out by the authorities, English and
American, which he cites." Foley v Fletcher, 28 L. J. (N. S.)
Ex. 100, 106, Nricholson v. Fiels, 31 L. J (N. S.) Ex. 233,
Hardcastle on Statutory Law, p. 251.
And the reason for the less rigorous application of the rule
is well given in Maxwell on the Interpretation of Statutes, 2d
ed. p. 318, thus
"The rule which requires that penal and some other statutes shall be construed strictly was more rigorously applied in
former times, when the number of capital offences was one
hundred and sixty or more, when it was still punishable with
death to cut down a cherry-tree in an orchard, or to be seen
for a month in the company of gipsies. But it has lost much
of its force and importance in recent times, since it has become
more and more generally recognized that the paramount duty
of the judicial interpreter is to put upon the language of the
legislature, honestly and faithfully, its plain and rational meaning, and to promote its.object. It was founded however, on
the tenderness of the law for the rights ox incavidualsl and on
the sound principle that it is for the legisluture, not the court,

to define a crime and ordain its punishment."
We enfertain no doubt that two ,classes of offences were
intended to be created by section 5467, one rela',ng "to t~he

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

embezzlement of letters, etc., and the other to stealing the contents, and that this conclusion is not reached in violation of
any rule of construction applicable to penal statutes.
But it is said that the offence of embezzling a letter is covered by section 3891 of the Revised Statutes, and that of abstracting its valuable contents by section 5467, and hence the
latter was intended to be confined to stealing the contents and
should not be held to embrace secreting, embezzling or destroying the letter, which might contain nothing of value.
Section 3891 is as follows
"Any person employed in any department of the postal
service, who shall unlawfully detain, delay, or open any letter,
packet, bag, or mail of letters intrusted to hm, or which has
come into his possession, and which was intendedto be conveyed by mail, or carried or delivered by any mail-carrier,
mail-messenger, route-agent, letter-carrier, or other person employed in any department of the postal service, or forwarded
through or delivered irom any post-office or branch post-office
established by authority of the Postmaster General , or who
shall secrete, embezzle, or destroy any such letter, packet, bag,
or mail of letters, although it does not contain any security
for or assurance relating to money or other thing of value,
shall be punishable by a fine of not, more than five hundred
dollars, or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or
by both."
This section is based on section 146 of the act of June 8,
1872 (17 Stat. 302), which reads thus
"That any person employed in any department of the postal service, who shall unlawfully detain, delay, or open any
letter, packet, bag, or mail of letters intrusted to him, or which
shall have come into his possession, and which was intended
to be conveyed by mail, or carried or delivered by any mailcarrer, mail-messenger, route-agent, letter-carrier, or other
person employed in any department of the postal service or
forwarded through or delivered from any post-office or branch
post-office established by authority of the Postmaster General,
any such person who shall secrete, embezzle, or destroy any
such letter, packet, bag, or mail of letters, as aforesaid, which

UNITED STATES v. LACHER.
Opinion of the Court.

shall not contain any security for or assurance relating -to
money or other thing of value, every such person shall, on
conviction thereof, .for every such offence, forfeit and pay a
penalty of not exceeding five hundred --dollars, or be imprisoned not more than one year, or both, at the discretion of the
court."

The contention is that the embezzlement of a letter is punishable only under section 3891, whether it does or does not
contain a thing of value, that if it does the offender is not
liable under section 5467, unless he steals it, and that this is
a reasonable and just construction, as the letter may have
been taken without intention to abstract the article, and indeed without suspicion of the contents until the interior is
explored. And it is urged- that as section 146 of the act of
June 8, 1872, expressly provided a penalty for the embezzlement of a letter, -" which shall not contain" anything of value,
and its substitute, section 3891, uses .the language, "although
it does not contain" anything of value, the latter section: has
been thereby broadened so as to:purnsh the offence w:hether
the -letter contains an article of value or not. Thas view
,would require us to hold that the intention was to do away
with the long-observed distinction between embezzling letters
containing valuable matter and those which do not, and to
absolve the culprit from liability for all the consequences of
his unlawful- act, notwithstanding the offences of secreting,
embezzling, or destroying letters of the first class are carefully
defined. If section 3891 covers the embezzlement of all letters
and mail matter, no reason for the larger part of section 5467
can be perceived. The construction contended for is madnuissible.
We concur with counsel for the government, that as sec.tions 146 and 279 of the act of Tune 8, 1872,. are to be considered together, so are sections 3891 and 5467, and that the
offences of secreting, embezzling, or destroying mail matter,
not containing articles of value, are punishable under the one,
and containing such articles under the other. We are unable
to find apy sound reason for the conclusion that Congress
intended to substitute for "imprisonment at hard labor for

