CASES ADJUDGED
IN. TE-

SUPRE[E COURT -OF THE UMTED STATES,
AT

-OCTOBER TERM, 1889.

-ANS v. LOUISIANA.
.MROR

TO -THE CIRoUIT

COURT OF TBM

UNITED

STATES

FOR

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No.4. Argued and submitted January 22, 1890. -Deelded

iarch 3, 1890.

A State cannot, without its consent, be suedin a Circuit Court of the United
States by 9jae of its own citizens, upon a suggestion that the case is one
that arises under the Constitution and laws of the United States.
Chisholm v. Georgza, 2 fall. 419, questioned.
While a State cannot be compelled by suit to-perform its contracts, any-attempt on its part to-violate property or rights acquired under its contracts
maybe ]udicially resisted, and any law iMpairing the obligation of contracts under which such property or rights are held is void, and power-

less to affect their ensoyment.

Tis was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States, in December, 18$4, against the State of Louisiana by lans, a citizen of that State, to recover the amount
of certain coupons -,nnexed to bonds of the State, issued under
the provisions of an act of the legislature approved January
24, 1974. The bonds were known and designated as the "con.
solidated bonds of the -State of Louisiana," and the -colupons
sued on are for interest which accrued January 1, 1880. The
grounds of the action were stated in the petition as follows
"Your petitioner avers that by the issue of said bonds and
VOI. CXXxiV-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

coupons said State contracted with and agreed to pay the
bearer thereof the principal sum of said bonds forty years
from the date thereof, to wit, the first day of January, 1874,
and to pay the interest thereon represented by coupons as
aforesaid, including the coupons held by your petitioner,
semi-annually upon the maturity of said coupons, and said
legislature, by an act approved January 24, 1874, proposed an
amendment to the constitution of said State, which was afterwards duly adopted, and is as follows, to wit
"'No. 1. The issue of consolidated bonds, authorized by
the general assembly of the State at its regular session m the
year 1874, is hereby declared to create a valid contract between
the State and each and every holder of said bonds, which the
State shall by no means and in nowise impair. The said bonds
shall be a valid obligation of the State in favor of any holder
thereof, and no court shall enjoin the payment of the principal
or interest thereof or the levy and collection of the tax therefor. To secure such levy; collection and payment the judicial
power shall be exercised when necessary The tax required
for the payment of the principal and interest of said bonds
shall be assessed and collected each and every year until saiwV
bonds shall be paid, principal and interest, and the proceeds
shall be paid by the treasurer of the State to the holders of
said bonds as the principal and interest shall fall due, and no
further legislation or appropriation shall be requisite for the
said assessment and collection and for such payment from the
treasury I
"And petitioner further avers that, notwithstanding said solemn compact with the holders of said bonds, said State hath
refused and still refuses to pay said coupons held by petitioner,
and by its constitution, adopted in 1879, ordained as follows
"' That the coupon of said consolidated bonds falling due
the first oi January, 1880, be, and the same is hereby, remitted,
and any interest taxes collected to meet said coupons are
hereby transferred to defray the expenses of the state government, ' and by article 257 of said constitution also prescribed
that 'the constitution of this state, adopted in eighteen hundred and sixty-eight, and all amendments thereto, is declared

HANqS 9. LOISIANA.
Statement of the Case.

to be superseded by this constitution ;' and said State thereby
undertook to repudiate her contract obligations aforesaid and
to prohibit her officers and agents executing the same, and said
State claims that, by said provisions of said constitution, she
is relieved from the obligations of her aforesaid contract- and
from the payment of said coupons held by petitioner; and so
refuses payment thereof and had prohibited her officers and
agents making such payment.
"Petitioner also avers that taxes for the payment of the
interest upon said bonds, due January 1, 1880, were levied,
assessed and collected, but said State unlawfully and wrongfully diverted the money so collected, and appropriated the
same to payment of the general expenses of the State, and has
made no other provision for the payment of said interest..
"Petitioner also avers that said provisions of said constitution are in contravention of said contract, and their adoption
was an active violation thereof, and that said State thereby
sought to impair the validity thereof with your petitioner in
violation of article 1, section 10, of the Constitution of -the
United States, and. the effect so given to said state constitution
-does impair said contract.
"Wherefore petitioner prays that the State of Louisiana be
cited to answer this demand, and that after due proceedings
she be.condemned to pay your petitioner said sum of ($87,500)
eighty-seven thousand five hundred dollars, with legal interest
from January 1, 1880, until paid, and all costs of suit, and
petitioner prays for -generalrelief."
A citatioi being issued, directed to the State, and served
upon the governor thereof, the attorney general of the State
filed an exception, of which the following is a copy, to wit
Now comes defendant, by the attorney general, and excepts.
"1
to plaintiffs suit on the ground that this court is without
jurisdiction ratione personw. Plaintiff cannot sue, the state
without its pernssion, the constitution and laws- do 'not give
this honorable court jurisdiction of a suit against the state,
and its j3isdiction is respectfully declined.
"Wherefore respondent prays to be hence dismissed, with
costs and for general relief."

OCTOBER TERIf, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

By the judgment of the court this exception was sustained,
and the suit was dismissed. See Hans v Lowus'tana, 24 Fed.
Rep. 55. To this. judgment the present writ of error was
brought.
2 r J D Rouse, (HM William Grant was also on the
brief,) for plaintiff in error.
I. The sole question arising m this case, and now here
presented for the first time, is "Does the judicial power of
the United States extend to a case arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States and originally brought
against a State by one of its own citizens 9"
The judicial power of the United States is established by
the Constitution, and its extent is defined by section 2 of
article 3, which is as follows
"The judicial power shall extend to all cases in law and
equity arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United
States and treaties made or which shall be made under their
authority, to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public
ministers and consuls, to all cases of admiralty and maritine
jurisdiction, to controversies to which the United States shall
be a party, to controversies between two or more States,
between a State and citizens of another State, between
citizens of different States, between citizens of the same State
claiming lands under grants of different States, and between
a State or the citizens thereof and foreign states, citizens or
subjects."
The provision is mandatory, and has always been held to
include all that the fullest scope given to the language requires. Osborn v Unted States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, Cohens
v
irg'nza, 6 Wheat. 264, Tennessee v Dans, 100 U. S. 257,
Railroad Co. v. .Xsstsm zi, 102 U S. 135, _-Mayor v Cooper,
6 Wall. 247, 3 Webster's Works, 334, 482.
H. But it is contended by the defendant that because of its
sovereignty it is excepted from the operation of this general
grant of judicial power. There is no warrant for the proposition either m the history of the constitution or m its judicial
interpretation.

HANS v. LOUISIANAArgument for Plaintiff in Error.

The sovereignty of the States is limited by the Constitution.
1o State can enter into any treaty, alliance or confederation,
grant letters of marque, pass any bill of attainder, or grant
any title of nobility These and many other rights and powers inherent, in sovereign States were surrendered to the federal government by the adoption of the Constitution.
Sovereign States may not be sued without their consent, but
by the federal Constitution the States submitted themselves to
the judicial power of the Union'in many named cases. It was
expressly extended to controversies between two or more
States, between a State and citizens of another State, and
between a State and foreign states, citizens or subjects.
This was necessary for the establishment of .justice, and to
insure that domestic tranquillity which was among the chief
objects of the Constitution, because, controversies would inevitably arise between the States themselves, as well as between
the States and citizens of sister or foreign states, winch might
not involve any question arising under the Constitution or laws
of the United States, jurisdiction over which had already been
given in all cases, without regard to parties, whether States or
individuals.
In ChAsholZm v Georgza, 2 Dall. 419, a citizen of South Carolina sued the State of Georgia, invoking jurisdiction under
that clause of the Constitution extending the judicial power to
controversies between States and citizens of other States. It
was contended on behalf of the State of Georgia that while a
State might sue a citize 'of another State in the federal courts,
the State could not there be sued, but this court held that it
could be.
This decision was followed by the .adoption of the Elgventh
AmendmeAt to the Constitution, declaring that "The judicial
power of the United, States shall not be construed to extend
to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against
one of the United States by citizens of another State, or by
citizens or subjects of any foreign State."
This is a limitation upon the exdrcise- of. judicial power in
the cases named. Upon no principle of construction can the
limitation be %pplied to other cases. No change in the Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

stitution was made in any other respect. The judicial power
still extends to all cases over which it was granted, excepting
only suits in'law or equity commenced or prosecuted against
a State by a citizen of another State or of a foreign State.
Suits may still be brought by a foreign State against a State
of the Union, by one State against another or against the
citizens of another State. Wisconsm v. Pelican Ins. Co., 12

IT S. 265.
III. The jurisdiction has been exercised in cases tbo numerous
to mention. See, especially, Rhode Island v .Massachusetts,12
Pet. 657, New Ha},shre v Lousuna, 108 U. S. 76, 90,
Tennessee v Dams, 100 U. S.257,266, Pomndexter v Greenhow,
114 U. S.270, Colons v. irg?.na, 6 Wheat. 264. 279, Ames
v. -ansas, 111 U. S. 449, Carterv Greenhow, 114 U. S. 317,
322; Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S.3, 12.
In In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, the contempt proceedings
were m a suit instituted by aliens, and therefore held not to be
within the jurisdiction of the court, because of the Eleventh
Amendment. The cases of ilagood v. Southern, 117 U. S.52,
and Lousqm
v Jdme, 107 U. S. 711, were held to be in
effect suits against a State within the prohibition of the amendment, the plaintiffs being citizens of another State.
IV The third article of -the constitution declares that "1the
]u1icial power of the United States shall be vested in one Supreme Court and in such other inferior courts as the Congress
mayfrom time to time ordain and establish." The language
of this article is mandatory upon the legislature. 3artin v
Hunter's-Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 334.
By the judiciary. act of 1789, see. 13, it is enacted that "the
Supreme Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of controversies of a civil nature where a tate is a party, except between a
S tt and its citizens; and except also between a State and
citizens of other States, or aliens, in which iatter case it
shall have original but not exclusive jurisdiction," 1 Stat. 80,
c. 20, ยง 13, thus clearly recognizing that controversies might
arise -between a State and its citizens within the judicial power
of the United States.
The Constitution is the supreme law of the land, and upon

HANS v. LOUISIANA.
Argument -for Plaintiff m Error.

its adoption the sovereignty of the States ceased to exist as
to all matters confided to the. federal government. Dodge v.
Woolsey, 18 How 331. By their own consent the States submitted themselves to the judicial power of the United States
in all cases to which. that power extends. The submission of
the original States was voluntary The territory of Oileans
possessed no sovereignty, but the act of Congress, authorizing
the people thereof to form a constitution and state government, required the convention to adopt the Constitution of the
United States, and to transmit to Congress the instrument by
which its consent to said Constitution was given, 2 Stat. 641,
c.21, and the act admitting the State of Louisiana into the
Umon declared this condition, among others, a fundamental
condition of such admission. 2 Stat. 701, c. 50.
V The State of Louisiana, when it entered into the contract
upon, which the plamtiff sues, submitted itself to the judicial
power for its enforcement.
Section 11 of the act under whih the bonds were issued
provided that each provision of the act should be a cont'act
between the State of Louisiana and each and every holder of
the bonds. A. constitutional amendment further provided that
no court should enjoin the payment of the principal, or the
levy and collection of the tax therefor, and that the judicial
power should be exercised, when necessary, to secure such
levy, collection and payment. It was competent for the State
to thus subject itself' to suit in the state courts. Cur-an v.
Arkanas, 15 How 304, Damws v Gray, 16 Wall.'203, 221.
By the submission of herself to the judicial power of her
own courts the State submitted herself to the judicial power
of the federal courts having jurisdiction ratione mate'.
She
submitted herself to the jurisdiction of the court below, because
she made no exception. Even the Supreme Court of Loisiana, in the case of the State ex reZ. Hart v Burke, put her exemption from suit to enforce this contract upon the ground
that the constitutional amendment of 18'[4, which subfnitted
the State of Louisiana to the judicial power, bad been repealed
by.the Constitution of 1879 and that the power of submission
was taken away

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The Supreme Court of Louisiana assumed, that, although the
Constitution of the United States prohibited the State from
passing any law impairing the validity of a contract, the State
by the adoption of a constitution could avoid that prphibition.
The court overlooked the numerous decisions of this court
declaring that provision of the Constitution to be directed as
well against impairing the obligation of a contract by constitutional amendment as by legislative authQrity, that in the
meaning of the prohibition a constitution is a law -Dodge v
Woolsey, 18 How 331, Railroad Co. v MXclre, 10 Wall.
511 , Yrew Orleans Gas 'Co. v Iout vana -Light Co., 115 U. S.
650, 672; Fisk v. Jefferson Police Jury, 116 U. S. 131, WA'te
v -Hart,13 Wall. 646, Gunn v. Barry, 15 Wall. 610, _Yew
Jersey v Wilson, 7 Cranen, 164, Provmdence Bank v. Billings,
4 Pet. 514, Green v Biddle, 8.Wheat. 1, Woodruf v Trapnall, 10 How 190, WoV v lbew Orleans, 103 U. S. 358,,
Pomndexter v Greenhow, 114 U. S.270,297, Fletcher v Peck,
6 Cranch, 87.
VI. The Supreme Court of Louisiana holds that the Constitution of 1879 deprived the-courts of the State of jurisdiction to
enforce the contracts of the State in relation to these bonds.
To take away all remedy for the enforcement of a right is
to take away the right itself. But that is not in the power
of the State. Poznde'er v Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270, 303,
Brown v .fnzwe, 1 How 311, 317, .McCracken v Hayward,
2 How .608, Louisiana v NYew Orleans, -102 U S. 203, 206,
Sei'bert v Ieww, 122 U. S.284, 295. The constitutional protection of contracts is judicially enforced in suits growing out
of them. In re Ayers, sup., 504, Carter v Greenkow, 114

U. S. 3172 322.
The State, having consented to be sued, and having made
such consent a matter of contract, upon which it had obtained
a loan of money, cannot withdraw its consent to the injury of
the party with whom it contracted. Such iyithdrawal would
impair its contract in violation of the Constitution of the
United States. Dartmouth College v Woodward, 4 Wheat.
518.

HANS v. LOUISIANA.
Opmion of the Court.

.Mr Walter H R.gers, Attorney General of the State of
Louisiana, .ar .M. J Cunnmghan, Mr B. T Sage and _M
Alexander PorterMorse, for defendant in error, submitted on
their briefs.
, after stating the case as above, deMR. JusTIcE. BRn
livered the opinion of the court.
The question is presented, whether a State, can be sued in a
Circuit Court of the .United States by one of its own citizens
upon a suggestion that the case is one that arises under the
Constitution or laws of the United States.
The ground taken is, that under the Constitution, as well as
under the act of Congress passed to carry it into- effect, a case
is within the jurisdiction of the federal courts, without regard
to the character of the parties, if it arises under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or, whih is the same thing,
if it necessarily involves a question under said Constitution or
laws. .The language relied on is that clause of the 3d article
of the-Constitution, which declares that' "the judicialopower
of the United States shall extend to all cases in law and equity
arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States,
and treaties made, or which shall be made, under their
authority,." and the corresponding'.clause of the act conferring jurisdiction upon the Circuit Court, which, -as found in
the act of March 3, 18-75, 18 Stat. 470, c. 137, ยง 1, is as follows,
to wit "That the Circuit Courts of the TUnited 'States shall
have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the
several states; of all suits of a civil nature at common law or
arising under the Constitution or laws of
in equity,
the'United States, or treaties made, or which shall be made,
It is said that these jurisdictional
under their authority"
*clauses make no exception arising from the character of the
parties, and, therefore, that a State can claim no exemption
from suit, if the case is really one arising under the Constitution, laws. or treaties of the United States. It is conceded
that where the jurisdiction depends alone upon the charact&r
of the parties, a controversy between a State. -and its own

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

citizens is not embraced within it, but it is contended that
though jurisdiction does not exist on that ground, it nevertheless does exist if the ease itself is one which necessarily involves
a federal question, and with regard to ordinary parties this
is undoubtedly true. The question now to be decided is,
whether it is true where one of the parties is a State, and is
sued as a defendant by one of its own citizens.
That a State cannot be sued by a citizen of another State,
or of a foreign state, on the mere ground that the case is one
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States, is
clearly established by the decisions of this court in several
recent caseg. Lowbna v. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711, Hagoo v
Southern, 117 U.. S. 52, ITn re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443. Those
were cases arising under the Constitution of the United States,
upon laws complained of as impairing the obligation of contracts, one of which was the constitutional amendment of
Louisiana complained, of in the present case. Relief was
sought against state officers who, professed to act in obedience
to those laws. This court held that the suits were virtually
against the States. themselves and were consequently violative
of the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution, and could not
be maintained. It was not denied that they presented cases
arising under the Constitution, but, notwithstanding that, they
were held to be prohibited by the amendment referred to.
In the present case the plaintiff in error contends that he,
being. a citizen of Louisiana, is not embarrassed by the obstacle
of the .Eleventh Amendment, inasmuch as that amendment
only prohibits suits against a State which are brought by the
citizens of another State, or by citizens or subjects of a foreign
State. It. is true, the amendment does so read and if there
were no other reason or ground for abating his suit, it might
be maintainable, and theni we should have this anomalous
result, that in cases ariing under the Constitution or laws of'
the United States, a State~ may be sued in the federal courts
by its own citizens, though it cannot be sued for a like cause
-of action by the citizens of other States, or of a foreigr state,
and may be thus sued in the federal courts, although not allowing itself to bo sued in its own courts. If this is the necessary

HAINS v. LOUISIANk
Opinion of the Court.

consequence of the language of the Constitution and the law,
the result is no less startling and unexpected than was the
original decision of this court, that under -the language of the
Constitution and of the judiciary act of 1789; a State was liable
to be sued by a citizen of another State, or of a foreign country
That decision was made m the case of 074sholm, v Georgza,
2 Dall. 419, ajnd created such a shock of surprise throughout
the country that, at the first meeting of Congress thereafter,
the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution was almost unanimously proposed, and was in due course adopted by the legislatures of the States. This amendment, expressing the will of
the ultimate sovereignty of the whole country, superior to
all legislatures and all courts, actually reversed the decision of
the Supreme Court. It did not in terms prohibit suits by individuals against the States, but declared that the Constitution
should not be construed to import any power to authorize the
bringing of such suits. The language of the amendment is
that "the judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or
prosecuted against one of the United States 'by citizens of
another State or by citizens or subjects of any foreign state."
The Supreme Court had construed the judicial power as extending to such a suit, and its decision was thus overruled.
The court itself so understood the effect of the amendment,
for, after its adoption, Attorney General Lee, in the case of
Hollingsvoth v. Y7 irgzma, 3 Dall. 378, submitted this question
to the court, "whether the amendment did, or did not, supersede all suits depending, as well as prevent the institution of
new suits, against any one of the United States, by citizens
of another State?"' Tilglhman and 1?awZe argued-m the negative,.contending that the jurisdiction of the court was unimpaired "in relation to all suits instituted previously to the
adoption of the amendment. But, on the succeeding day, the
court delivered a unanimous. opinion, "that the amendment
being constitutionally adopted, there could not be exercised
any jurisdiction, in any case, past or future, in which a State
was sued by the citizens of another State, or by citizens-or
subjects of any foreign state."

OCTOBER TERIM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

This view of the force and meaning of the amendment is
nnportanf Itshows that, on this question of the suability of
the States by individuals, the highest authority of this country
was in accord rather with the minority than with the majority
of the court in the decision of the case of Chzskolm v. Georgia
and this fact lends additional interest to the able opinion of
Mr. Justice Iredell on that occasion. The other justices were
more swayed by a close observance of the letter of the Constitution, without regard to former experience and usage, and
because the letter said that the judicial power shall extend to
controversies "between a State and citizens of another State;"
and "between a State and foreign states, citizens or subjects,"
they felt constrained to see in this language a power to enable
the individual citizens of one State, or of a foreign state, to
sue another State of the Union in the federal courts. Justice
Iredell, on the contrary, contended that it was not the mntention to create new and unheard of remedies, by subjecting
sovereign States to actions at the suit of individuals, (which
he conclusively showed, was never done before,) but only, by
proper legislation, to invest the federal courts with jurisdiction
to hear and determine controversies and cases, between the
parties designated, that were properly susceptible of litigation
in courts.

Looking back from our present standpoint at the decision
in Chkzesolm v Georgza, we do not greatly wonder at the
effect which it had upon the country Any such power as
that of authorizing the federal judiciary to entertain suits by
individuals against the States, had been expressly disclaimed,
and even resented, by the great defenders of the Constitution
whilst it was on its trial before the American people. As
some of their utterances are directly pertinent to the question
now under consideration, we deem it proper to quote them.
The eighty-first number of the Federalist, written by Hamilton, has the following profound remarks
"It. has been suggested that an assignment of the public
securities of one State to the citizens of another, would enable
them to prosecute that State in the federal courts for the
amount of those.securities, a suggestion which the following
considerations prove to be without foundation

R1AMS v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

"It is inherent in the nature of sovereignty not to be
amenable to the suit of an individual without its consent.
This is the general sense and the general practice of mankind,
and the exemption, as one of the'attributes of sovereignty, is
now enjoyed by the government of every State in the Umon.
Unless, therefore, there is a surrender of this immunity in
the plan of the convention, it will remain with the States,
and the danger intimated must be merely ideal. The circumstances which are necessary to produce an alienation of state"
sovereignty were discussed in considering the article of taxation, and need not be repeated here. A recurrence to the
principles there established will satisfy us, that there is no
color to pretend that the 6tate governments would, by the
adoption of that plan, be divested, of.the privilege of paying
their own debts in their own way, free from every constraint
but that which flows from the obligations of good faith. The
contracts between a nation and individuals are only binding.
on the conscience of the sovereign, and have no pretension to
a compulsive force. They confer no right of action independent of the sovereign will. To what purpose would it be to
:How
authorize suits against States for -the debts they owe
could recoveries be enforced 2 It is evident that it could not
be done without waging war against the contracting State,
and to ascribe to the federal courts by mere implication, and
in destruction of a pre-existing right of the state governments,
a power which would involve such a consequence, would be
altogether forced and unwarrantable."
The obnoxious clause to which Hanilton's argument was
directed, and which was the ground of the objections winch
he so forcibly met, was that which declared that "the judicial
power shall extend. to all
controversies between a State
and citizens of another State,
and between a State
and foreign states, citizens or subjects." It was argued by the
opponents of the Constitution that this clause would authorize
,jurisdiction to be given to the federal courts to entertain suits
against a State brought by the citizens of aAottjer State, or of
a foreign state. Adhering to the mere letter, it might be
so, and so, in fact, the Supreme Court held in Ck'tAobn v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Georga , but looking at the subject as Hamilton did, and
as Mr. Justice Iredell did, in. the light of history and experience and the established order of things, the views of the latter
were clearly right, -as the people of the United States in
their sovereign capacity subsequently decided.
But Hamilton was not alone in protesting against the constraction put upon the Constitution by its opponents. In
the Virginia convention the same objections were raised by
George Mason and Patrick Henry, and were met by Madison
and Marshall as follows. Madison said "Its jurisdiction [the
federal jurisdiction] in controversies between a State and
citizens of .,another State is much objected to, and perhaps
without reason. It is not in the power of individuals to call
any State into court. The only operation it can have is that,
if a State should wish to bring a suit against a citizen, it must
be brought before the federal court. This will give satisfaction to individuals, as it will prevent citizens on whom a State
may have a claim being dissatisfied with the state courts.
It appears to we that this [clause] can have no operation but this - to give a citizen a right to be heard in the
federal courts, and if a State should condescend to be a party,
this .court may take cognizance of it." 3 Elliott's Debates,
2d ed. 533. Marshall, in answer to the same objection, caid.
"With respect to disputes between a State and the citizens of
another State, its jurisdiction has been decried with unusual
vehenjence. I hope that no gentleman will think that a State
It is
will be called at the bar of the federal court.
not rational to suppose that the sovereign power should be
dragged before a court. The intent is to enable States to
recover claims of individuals residing in other States.
But, say they, there will be partiality in it if a State cannot
be defendant-if an indiividual cannot proceed to obtain
judgment against a State, though he may be sued by a State.
It is necessary to be so, and cannot be avoided. I see a difficulty in making a State defendant which does not prevent its
being plaintiff." lb. 555.
It seems to us that these views of those great advocates and
defenders of the Constitution were most sensible and just, and

HAWS v. LOUISIANA.
Opuuon of the Court.

thef apply equally to the present case as to that then under
discuision. The letter is appealed to now, as it was then, as
a ground for sustaining a siit brought by an individual against
a State. The reason against it is as strong in this case as it
was in that. It is an attempt to strain the Constitution and
the law to a construction never-imagined. or dreamed of. Can
we suppose that, when the Eleventh Amendment was adopted,
it was understood to be left open for citizens of a State to sue
their own state in the federal courts, whilst the idea of suits
by citizens of other states, or of -foreign-states, was indignantly
repelled 2 Suppose that Congress,-when proposing the Eleventh
Amendment, had appended to it a-proviso that.nothing therein
contained should prevent a State from being sued by its own
citizens in cases arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States can we imagine that it would have been
adopted by the States 2 The supposition that it would is
almost an absurdity on its face.
The truth is, that the cognizance of suits and-actions unknown to the law, and forbidden by the law, was not contemplated by the Constitution when establishing the judicial power
of the United States. Some things, undoubtedly, were made
justiciable which were not known as such at the common law,
such, for example, as controversies between States as to boundary lines, and other questions admitting. of judicial solution.
And yet the case of Penn v Iord Baltimore,1 Yes. Sen. A44,
shows that some of these unusual subjects of litigation were
not unknown to the courts even in colonial times, and several
cases of the same general character arose under the Articles
of Confederation, and were brought before the tribunal provided for that purpose in those articles. 131 U. S. App. 1.
The establishment of this new branch of jurisdiction seemed
to be necessary from the extinguishment of diplomatic relations between the States. Of other controversies bQtween a,
State and another State or its citizeusi whic1h, on t~oe settlhd'
principles of public law, are not subjects of judicial cognizance,
this court has often, declined to take jurisdiction. See Wisconsz v Pelican Ins. 6o., 127 U. S. 265, 288, 289, and, cases
there cited.

--

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The suability of a State without its consent was a thing
unknown to the law Tns has been so often laid down and
acknowledged by courts and jurists that it is hardly necessary
to be formally asserted. It was fully shown by an exhaustive
examination of the old law by Mr. Justice Iredell in his opinion in Cisiolm v Georgm, and it has been conceded in every
case since, where the question has, in any way, been presented,
even in the cases which have gone farthest in sustaining suits
against the officers or agents of States. Osborn v. Bank of
Unzted States, 9 Wheat. 738, Dams v Gray, 16 Wall. 203,
Board of iquzdatwn v McComb, 92 U S. 531, UnitedStates
v Lee, 106- U S. 196, Pondexter v Greenhow, 109 U. S. 63,
Virginia Coupon Gases, 114 U. S. 269. In all these cases the
effort was to show, and the court held, that the suits were not
against the State or the United States, but against the mdividuals, conceding that if they had been against either the
State or the United States, they could not be maintained.
Mr. Webster stated the law with precision in his letter to
Baring Brothers & Co., of October 16, 1839. Works, Vol. VI,
537. 539. "The security for state loans," he said, "is the
plighted faith of the State as a political community It rests
on the same basis as other contracts with established governments, the same basis, for example, as loans made by the
United States under the authority of Congress; that is to say,
the good faith of the government making the loan, and its
ability to fulfil its engagements."
In Brscoe v Bank of _entucky, 11 Pet. 257, 321, Mr. Justice McLean, delivering the opinion of the court, said "What
means of enforcing payment from the State had the holder of
a bill of credit It is said by the counsel for the plaintiffs,
that he could have sued the State. But was a State liable to
be sued?
No sovereign State is liable to be sued without her consent. Under the Articles of Confederation, a State
could be sued only in cases of boundary It is believed that
there is no case where a suit has been brought, at any time, on
bills of credit against a State, and it is certain that no suit
could have been maintained on this 'ground prior to the Constitution."

HANS v. LOUISIANA.
Opmion of the Court.

"It may be accepted as a point of departure -unquestioned,"
Brunssaid :Mr. Justice Miller, in Cunnsngka v. Macon
a
State
nor
neither
451,
"that
U.
S.
446,
109
wwlc Railroad,
in
this
in
any
court
the United States can be sued as defendant
country without their consent, except in the limited class of
cases in which. a; State may be made a party in the Supreme
Court of the United States by virtue of the original jurisdiction conferred on this court by the Constitution."
Undoubtedly a State may be sued by'its own consent, as
was the case. in Curran v. Arkansas et al., 15 How 304, 309,
and in Glark v Barnard,108 U. S. 436, 447. The suit in the
former case was prosecuted by virtue of a state law which the
legislature passed in conformity to the constitution of that
state. But this court.decided, in Beers et al. v Arkansas, 20
How 527, 529, that the State could repeal that law at any
time, that it was not a contract -within the.terms of the constitution prohibiting the passage of state laws impairing the
obligation of a contract. In that case the law allowing the
State to be sued was modified, pending certain suits against
the State on its bonds, so as to require the bonds to be filed in
court, which was objected to as an unconstitutional change of
the law Chief Justice Taney, delivering the opinion of the
court, said. "It is an established principle of jurisprudence in
all civilized nations that the sovereign cannot be sued in its
own courts, or in any other,, without its consent 'and perm-ssion, but it may, if it thinks proper, waive this privilege and
permit itself to be made a defendant in a suit by mdividual,
or by another State. And as this permission is altogether
voluntary on the part of the sovereignty, it follows that it
may prescribe the terms and conditions on which it consents,
to be sued, and the manner in which -the suit shall be conducted, and may withdraw its consent'whenever it may supThe prior
pose that justice to the public requires it.
act
of
legislation,
law was not a contract. It was an ordinary
prescribing the conditions upon which the State consented to
waive the privilege of sovereignty It contained.no stipulation
that these regulations should not be modified afterwards if,.
upon experience, it was -found that further provisions were_
voL. cxx

-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opnion of the Court.

necessary to protect the public interest, and no such contract
can be implied from the law, nor can this court inquire
whether the law operated hardly or unjustly upon the parties
whose suits were then pending. That was a question for .the
consideration of the legislature. They might have repealed
the prior law altogether, and put an end to the jurisdiction of
their courts ii suits against the State, if they bad thought
proper to do so, or prescribe new conditions upon which the
suits might still be allowed to proceed. In exercising this
power the State violated no contract with the parties." The
same doctrine was held in Railroad Company v Tennessee,
101 U. S. 337, 339, Railroad Company v Alabama, 101 U. S.
832, and In re Ayers, 123 U S. 443, 505.
But besides the presump'tion that no anomalous and unheardof proceedings or suits were intended to be raised up by the
Constitution - anomalous and unheard of when the Constitution was adopted -an additional reason why the jurisdiction
claimed for the Circuit Court does not exist, is the language
of the act of Congress by which its jurisdiction is conferred.
The words are these "The circuit courts of the United States
shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of
the several States, of all suits of a civil nature at common law
arising under the Constitution or laws
or in equity,
of the United States, or treaties," etc..-" Concurrent with the
courts of the several States." Does not this qualification, show
that Congress, in legislating to carry the Constitution into
effect, did not intend to invest its courts with any new and
strange jurisdictionst- The state courts have no power to
entertain suits by individuals against a State without its consent. Then how does the Circuit Court, having only concurrent jurisdiction, acquire any such power2 It is true that the
same qualification existed in the judiciary act of 1789, which
was before the court in Ckhsholm v Georgia, and the majority
of the court did not think that it was sufficient to limit the
jurisdiction of the Circuit-Court. Justice Iredell thought differently In view of the manner in which that decision was
received by the country, the adoption of the Eleventh Amendment, the light of history and the reason of the thing, we

HAWS v. LOUISIAN A.
Opinon of the Court.

think we are at liberty to.prefer Justice Iredell's views m this
regard.
Some reliance is placed by the plaintiff upon the observations of Chief Justice Marshall, in Cohens v. lVirgzrns, 6

Wheat. 264, 410. The Chief Justice was there considering
the power of review exercisable by this court over the judgments of a state court, wherein it might be necessary to make
the State itself a defendant in error. He showed that this
power was absolutely necessary in order to enable the judiciary of the United States to take cognizance of all cases arising
under the Constitution and laws of the United States. He
also showed that making a State a defendant in error was
entirely different from suing a State in an origial action in
prosecution of a demand against it, and was *notwithin the
meaning of the Eleventh Amendment, that the prosecution of
a writ of error against a State was not the prosecution of a suit
in the sense of that amendment, wnich had reference to the
.prosecution, by suit, of claims against a State. "Where," said
the Chief Justice, "a State obtains a judgment against an individual, and the court rendering such judgment overrules a
defence set up under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, the transfer of this record into the Supreme Court for
the sole purpose of inqmring whether the judgment violates
the Constitution of the United States, can, with no propriety,
we think, be denominated a suit commen-ed or prosecuted
against the State whose judgment is so far reexamined. Nothing is demanded from the State. No claim against it of any
description is asserted or prosecuted. The party is not to be
restored to the possession of any thing.
He only
asserts the constitutional right to have hYs defence examined
by that tribunal whose province it is to construe the Constitution and laws of the Umon.
The point of view in
which this writ of error, with its citation, has been considered
uniformly in the courts of the Union, has been well illustrated
by a reference to th6 course of this court in suits instituted by
the United States. The universally received opinion is that
no suit can be commenced or prosecuted against the. United
States, that the judiciary act does not authorize such suits.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Yet writs of error, accompanied with citations, have uniformly
issued for the removal of judgments in favor of the United
It has never been sugStates into a superior court.
gested that such writ of error was a suit against the United
States, and, therefore, not within tfie jurisdiction of the appellate court."
After thus showing by incontestable argument that a writ
of error to a judgment recovered by a State, in which the State
is-necessarily the defendant in error, is not a suit commenced
or prosecuted against a State in the sense of -the amendment,
he added, that if the court were mistaken in-this, its error did
not affect that case, because the writ of error therein was not
prosecuted by "a ritizen of another State" or "of any foreign
state," and so was not affected by the amendment, but was
governed by the general grant of judicial power, as extending
"to qll cases arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States, without respect to parties." p. 412.
It must be conceded that the last observation of the Chief
Justice does favor the argument of the plaintiff. But the cbservation was unnecessary to the decision, and in that sense
extra udiczal, and though made by one who seldom used
words without due reflection, ought not to outweigh the important considerations referred to which lead to a different
conclusion. With regard to the question then before the
court, it may be observed, that writs of error to judgments in
favor of the crown, or of the State, had been known to the
law from time immemorial, and had never been considered
as exceptions to the rule, that an action does not lie against
the sovereign.
To avoid misapprehension it may be proper to add that,
although the obligations of a State rest for their performance
upon its honor and good faith, and cannot be made the subjects of judicial cognizance unless the State consents to be
sued, or comes itself into court, yet where property or rights
are enjoyed under a grant or contract made by a State, they
cannot wantonly be invaded. Whilst the State cannot be
compelled by suit t 9 perform its contracts, any attempt on
its part to violate property or rights acquired under its con-

HANS v, LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the, Court.

tracts, may be judicially resisted, and- any law impairing the
obligation of contracts under which such property or rights
are held is void and powerless to affect their enjoyment.
It is not necessary that we should enter upon an examnnation of the reason or expediency of the rule which exempts a
sovereign State from prosecution in a court of justice at the
suit of individuals. This is fully discussed by writers on
public law It is enough for us to declare its existence. The
legislative department of a State represents its polity and. its
will, and is called upon by the highest demands of natural
and political law to preserve justice and judgment, and to
hold inviolate the public obligations. Any departure from
this rule,. except for reasons most cogent, (of which the legislature, and not the courts, is the judge,) never fails m the end
to incur the odium of the world, and to bring lasting injury
upon the State itself. But to deprive the legislature of the
power of, judging what the honor and safety of the State may
require, even at the expense of a temporary failure to discharge the public debts, would be attended with greater evils
than such failure can cause.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Afflrm.ed
Mm, JusTICE HAm"A2 concurring.
I concur with the .court in holding that a suit directly
against a State by one of its own citizens is not one to which
the judicial power of the United States 'extends, unless the
State itself consents to be sued. Upon this ground alone I
assent to the judgment. But I cannot give my assent to
many things said in the opinion. The comments made upon
the decision in Clasholm v Georgsa do not meet my approval.
They are not necessary to the determination of the present
case. Besides, I am of opinion that the decision in that case
was based upon a sound iiterpretation of the Constitution as
that instrument then was.

