OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Syllabus.

special circumstances under which he took the bonds now
held by him. Gibson v Shfeldt, 122 U. S. 27, Jewell v
Knght, 123 U S. 426, 432.
The decree below as to H. J iMlcMurray, A. 1 .Mangung
and IF F Berry,_partners as .3fannng & Berry, Charles
T Bender, trusteefor .Mannng and Berry, and the First
NYational Bank of Reno as trusteefor I.fann&ng c Berry,
must be affirmed, and reversed as to the appellants William
Wrght; A. A. Matkins and JerrySchooling, and the cause,
as to those partzes, must be remandedforf.6rther proceedings-consistent wtth thts optnton. The appeal by all the
other appellantsmust be dism,&qsed. The appellants IMrzght,
Watkins and Schooling will recover agatnst the appellees
thezr costs wn this court. It ss so ordered.

MEDLEY, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
Xo. 5, Origna-.

Argued and submitted January 15, 1890. - Decided March 3, 1890.

A state statute, (enacted after the commission of a murder m the State,)
which adds to the punishment of death, (that being the punishment
when the murder was committed,) the further punishmernt of imprisonment by solitary confinement until the execution, is, when attempted to
be enforced against the person convicted of that murder, an ex post facto
law, and a sentence inflicting both punishments upon him is void, and
the same is the case with a statute which confers upon the warden of the
penitentiary the power to fix the day of execution, and compels him to
withhold the knowledge of it from the offender, wnen neither of those
provisions formed part of the law of the State when the offence was
committed.
Any law passed after the commission of the offence for which a person
accused of crime is being tried which inflicts a greater punishment on
the crime than the law annexed to it at the time when it was committed,
or which alters the situation of the accused to his disadvantage, is an
ex post facto law within the meaning of that term as used m the Constitution of the United States.
No one can be criminally punished in this country except according to a law
prescribed for his government by the sovereign authority before the

MEDLEY, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.
imputed offence was committed, or by some law passed afterwards by
which the punishment is not increased.
There being no error in the proceedings of the court below on the trial and
the verdict by which the party was convicted, and the error commencing
only when the sentence or judgment of the court on the verdict is
entered, the court, after deliberation, determines that the Attorney
General of the State shall be notified by the warden of the penitentiary,
of the precise time when he will release the prisoner from his custody, at
least ten- days beforehand, and after doing this, and at that time, he
shall discharge the prisoner.

Tim case is 9tated in the opinion.
ir Walter Fan Rensselaer Berry and 2ir Henry T se
Garnett (with whom was Mr A. T Briton on the brief) for
the petitioner.
ir Henry ML. Teller, and Mr Aaron W Jones, attorney
general of the State of Colorado, submitted on their brief.
MR. JusTICe. MILL ER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an application to this court by James J -edley for
a writ of habeas.corpus,the object of which is to relieve him
from the imprisonment in which he is held by J A. Lampmg;
warden of the state penitentiary of the State of Colorado.
The petitioner is held a prisoner under sentence of death
pronounced by the-District Court of the Second District of
the State of Colorado for the county of Arapahoe. The
petition of the prisoner -sets forth that an indictment for the
murder of Ellen Medley was found against him by the grand
jury of Arapahoe County on the 5th day of June, 1889, that
the indictment charges petitioner with this murder, which
took place on the 13th day of May of that year, that he was
tried in said District Court on the 24th day of September
thereafter and found guilty by the jury of murder in the first
degree, that on the 29th day of November he was sentenced
to be remanded to the custody of the sheriff of Arapahoe
County, and within twenty-four hours to be taken. by said
sheriff and delivered to the warden of the state penitentiary,
voL. OXXxrV-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of th6 Court.

to be kept in solitary confinement until the fourth week of
the month of December thereafter, and that then, upon a day
and hour to be designated by the warden, he should be taken
from said place of confinement to the place of execution,
within the confines of the penitentiary, and there be hanged
by the neck until he was dead.
Copies of the indictment, of the verdict of the jury and of
the sentence of the court are annexed to the petition as
exhibits.
The petitioner then sets forth that he was sentenced under
the statute of Colorado, approved April 19th, 1889, and which
went into effect July 19th, 1889, and repealed all acts and
parts of former acts inconsistent therewith, without any
saving clause, and that the crime on account of which the
sentence was passed was charged to -be and was actually
committed on the 13th day of May of the same year.
The petitioner enumerates some twenty variances between
the statute in force at the time the crime was committed and
that under which he was sentenced to punishment in the
present case, all of which are claimed to be changes to his
prejudice and injury, and therefore e& post facto within the
meaning of section 10, article 1 of the Constitution of the
United States, which declares that no State shall pass any bill
of attainder or ex yostfacto law
The petitioner applies directly to this court for the writ of.
W1ea s corpus instead of to the Circuit Court of the United
States, because, he alleges, that court has in a similar case,
involving the same points, decided adversely to the petitioner.
Upon examining the petition and the accompanying exhibits
an order was made that the writ should issue and be returnable forthwith. By an arrangement between the parties- and
the counsel, it was agreed that the prisoner need not in person
be brought to Washington. The case was therefore heard on
the documents and transcripts of record presented to the court,
and the only question argued before us was whether the act
of April 19, 1889, which by the Constitution of the State of
Colorado became operative on the 19th day of July thereafter, and under which the sentence complained of was im-

'MEDLEY, tetitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

posed by the Distrit'Court, is an exeoost facto law, so As to be
void under the provision of the Constitution of the United
States on that subject, and if so, in what respect it is in violation of that constitutional provision.
This statute will be found in the Session Laws. of the State
of Colorado of 1889, page 118, and is as follows
"Axq AcT relative to the time, place and manner, of infliction
of the death penalty, and to provide means for the infliction of such penalty, and making it a misdemeanor, punishable by fine or imprisonment, to disclose or publish
proceedings in relation thereto.
"Be it enacted by the Generl _Assemby of the State of
Coorado.
"SEcTiox 1. The commissioners of the state penitentiary,
at the expense of the State ol Colorado, shall provide a suitable room or place enclosed from public view within the walls
of the penitentiary, and therein -erect and construct,.and at
all times have in preparation, all necessary scaffolding, drops,
and appliances requisite for carrying into execution the death
penalty, and the punishment of death must, in each and every
case of death sentence pronounced in this State, be inflicted
by the.warden of the said state penitentiary in the room or
place-and with the appliances, provided .as aforesaid, by hangmg such conict by the neck until he shall be dead.
" S c. 2. Whenever a person convicted of a crime, the punishinent whereof is death, and such .convicted person be, sentenced to suffer the penalty of death, the judge passing such
sentence shall appoint and designate in the 'warrant of conviction a week of time withi which such sentence must -be exected I such week, so appointed, shall be not less than two nor
more than four weeks from the day of passing such sentence.
Said warrant shall be .directed to the warden of the state
penitentiary of this State, commanding said warden to do
executibn of the sentence imposed as aforesaid, upon some
day within the week of' time designated in said warrant, and
.shall be delivered to the sheriff of the county wherein such
conviction is had,.who shall within twentyfour hours there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

after proceed to the said penitentiary and deliver such convicted person, together with the warrant as aforesaid, to the
said warden, who shall keep such convict in solitary confinement until infliction of the death penalty, and no person shall
be allowed access to said, convict, except his attendants, counsel, physician, a spiritual adviser of his own selection and members of his family, and then only in accordance with prison
regulations.
"SEc. 3. The particular day and hour of the. execution of
said sentence, within the week specified in said warrant, shall
be fixed by said warden, and he shall invite to be present
thereat the sheriff- of the county wherein the conviction was
had, the chaplain and physician of the penitentiary, one practising surgeon resident in the State, the spiritual adviser of
the convict, if any, and six reputable citizens of the State
of full age. Said warden may -lso appoint three deputies
or guards to assist him in executing said sentence, and said
warden shall permit no person or persons to be present at
such execution except those provided for in this section. The
time fixed by said warden for - said execution shall be by him
kept secret and in no manner divulged, except privately to
the persons by him invited to be present as aforesaid, and
such persons so invited shall not divulge such invitation to
any person or persons whomsoever nor in any manner disclose
the time of such execution. All persons present at such execution shall keep whatever may transpire thereat secret and
inviolate, save and except -the facts certified to by them. as
hereinafter provided. INo account of the details of any such
execution, beyond the statement of the fact that such convict
was on the day in question -duly executed according to law at
the state penitentiary, shall in any manijer be published in
this State.
"SEc. 4. Upon receiving notice from said warden of such
execution, it shall be the duty of said sheriff to be present and
witness such execution, and [he] shall receive and cause the certified transcript of record of said execution, hereinafter specified,
to be filed within ten! days after said executlo, in the office
of the clerk of the court in which said conviction was had,

MEDLEY, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

and the said clerk shall record said transcript at length in the
records of the said case. In case of the disability, from illness, or other sufficient cause, of said warden or said sheriff
to be present at such execution, it shall be the duty of their
respective deputies, acting in their place and stead, to execute
said warrant, and to perform all other duties in connection
therewith and by this act imposed upon their principals.
"SEC. 5. Said warden shall keep a book of record, to be
known as record of executionsin which shall be entered at
length the reports hereinafter specified. Immediately after
said execution a _ost mortem examination of the body of the
convict shall be made by the attending physician and surgeon,
and they shall enter in said book of record the nature and
extent of such examination, and sign and certify to the same.
Said warden shall also immediately make and enter in said
book a. report setting forth the time of such, execution, and
that the convict (naming him) was then and there executed
in Cenformity to the sentence specified in the warrant of the
court (naming such court) to him directed, and in accordance
with the provisions of this act, and shall insert in said report
the names of all the persons who were present and witnessed
said execution, and shall procure each and every of such
persons to sign said -report with their full name and place of
residence before leaving the place of execution, and said
warden shall thereupon attach his certificate to said report,
certifying to the 'truth and correctness thereof, -and shall
immediately deliver a certified- transcript. or said record entry
to said-sherif
.Sao. 6. &. person. wh6:-shall violate or~omit .to comply
with se-tion three of this actshaf1 be -guilty of a misdemeanor,
and.lpon conviction Thereof he punished by a file of not less
thai'fifty dollars nor more than five hundred dollars or by
imprisonment m the county jail for not less than thirty, days
nor more than six months.
"SEC. 7. The warden, or other person acting in his stead
who performs the duties imposed upon him by this act, shall
be paid for his services out of the moneys. provided for the
maintenance of said state penitentiary the) sum of fifty (50)

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

dollars; and the said sheriff shall be paid for his services by
the county where such conviction was had the sum of twentyfive-dollars, together with his mileage fees as provided by law
"SEc. 8. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the
provisions of this act are hereby repealed.
"Approved April 19, 1889."
Section 19 of Article V of the Constitution of the State of
Colorado, as amended November 4, 1881, is as f6llows
" No act of the general assembly shall take effect until
ninety days after its passage, unless in case of emergency
(which shall be expressed in the preamble or body of the
act) the general assembly shall, by a vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to each house, otherwise direct. No
bill except the general appropriation for the expenses of the
government only, introduced m either house of the general
assembly after the first twenty-five days of the session, shall
become a law"
We think it follows from this provision that .neither the
repealing clause nor any other part of this act was in force
prior to the 19th of July, 1889, and that the crime, having
been committed in May of that year, was to be governed in
all particulars, of trial and punishment, by the law then in
force, except s6 far as the legislature had power to apply
other principles to the trial and punishment of the crime.
If these were conducted and administered under the law of
1889, which became a law after the commission of the offence,
and its provisions so far as applied by the court to the case of
the prisoner, were such invasions of his rights as to properly
be called expostfacto laws, they were void.
It is unnecessary to examine all the points in which,
according to the argument for plaintiff, the new statute was
expost facto, therefore we shall notice only a few of those
which appear to us most deserving of attention, and in doing
this we shall compare the new statute with the one which it
superseded and repealed.

MEDLEY. Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

The first of these, and perhaps the most important, is that
which declares that the warden shall keep such convict in
solitary confinement until the infliction of the death penalty
The former law, the act of 1883, contained no such provision.
It declared that every person convicted of murder in the first
degree should suffer death, and every person convicted of
murder of the second degree should suffer imprisonment in the
penitentiary for a term of not less than ten years, which might
extend to life, and it declared that the manner of inflicting
the punishment of death should be by hanging the person convicted by the neck until death, at such time as the court should
direct, not less than fifteen nor more than twenty-five days
from the time sentence was pronounced, unless for good cause
the court or governor might prolong the time. The prisoner
was to be kept in the county jail under the control of the
sheriff of the county, who was the officer charged with the
execution of the sentence of the court. Solitary confinement
was neither authorized by the former statute, nor was itsU
practice in use in regard, to prisoners awaiting the punishment
of death.
This matter of solitary confinement is not, a's seems to be
supposed by. counsel, and as is suggested in an able opinion
on this statute, furnished us 'by.the brief of the counsel for the
State, by Judge Hayt, (in the case of Henry Tyson,) a mere
unimportant regulation as to the safe-keeping of the prisoner,
and is not relieved of its objectionable features by the qualifying language, that no person shall be allowed access to -said
convict except his attendants, counsel, physician, a spiritual
adviser of his own selection, and members of his family, and
then only in accordance with prison regulations.
Solitary confinement as a punishment for crime has a very
interesting history of its own, in almost all countries where
imprisonment is one of the means of punishment. In a very
exhaustive article on this subject in the American Cyclopsedia,
Volume XIII, under the word "Prison" this history is given.
In that article it is said that the first plan adopted when public
attention was called to the evils of congregating persons in
masses without employment, was the solitary prison connected

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

with the Hospital San Michele at Rome, in 1703, but little
known prior to the experiment in Walnut Street Penitentiary
in Philadelphia in 1787. The peculiarities of this system were
the complete isolation of the prisoner from all human society
and his confinement in a cell of considerable size, so arranged
that he had no direct intercourse with or sight of any human
being, and no employment or instruction. Other prisons on the
same plan, which were less liberal in the size of their cells and
the perfection of their appliances, were erected in Massachusetts, New Jersey, Maryland and some of the other States. But
experience demonstrated that there were serious objections to
it. A considerable number of the prisoners fell, after even a
short confinement, into a semi-fatuous condition, from which it
was next to impossible to arouse them, and others became violently insane, others, still, committed suicide, while those who
stood the ordeal better were not generally reformed, and in most
cases did not recover sufficient mental activity to be of any subsequent service to the community It became evident that some
changes must be made in the system, and the separate system
was originated by the Philadelphia Society for Ameliorating
the Miseries of Public Prisons, founded in 1787.
The article then gives a great variety of instances in which
the system is somewhat modified, and it is within the memory of many persons interested in prison discipline that some
thirty or forty years ago the whole subject attracted the general public attention, and its main feature of solitary confinement was found to be too severe.
It is to this mode of imprisonment that the phrase solitary
confinement has been applied in nearly all instances where it
is used, and it means this exclusion from human associations;
where it is intended to mitigate it by any statutory enactment
or by any regulations of persons having authority to do so, it is
by express exceptions and modifications of the original principle of "solitary confinement." The statute of Colorado is
undoubtedly framed on this idea. Instead of confinement in
the ordinary county prison of the place where he and his
friends reside, where they may, under the control of the sheriff,
see him and visit him, where the sheriff and his attendants

MEDLEY, Petitioner.
Opinion -of the Court.

must see him, where his religious adviser and his legal counsel
may often visit hin without any hindrance of law on the subject, the -convict is transferred to a place where imprisonment
always implies disgrace, and which, as this court hasj udicially
decided in Expar'te Wilson, 114 U. S. 417, Mackn v United
States, 117 U. S. 348, Parkznson v United States, 121 U. S.
281, and United States v De Walt, 128 U. S. 393, is itself an
infamous punishment, and is there to be kept in "solitary confinement," the primary meaning of which phrase we -have
already explained.
The qualifying phrase in this statute is but a, small mitigation of this solitary confinement, for it expressly declares 'ttat
no one shall be allowed access to the convict except certain
persons, and these are not admissible unless their access to the
prisoner is in accordance with prison regulations, prescribed
by the board of commissioners of the penitentiary under section 2553 of the laws of Colorado in force since 1877. This
section declares that "the board of commissioners of the penitentiary shall make such rules and regulations for the government, discipline and police of the penitentiary, and for the
punwhvwnt of prisoners confined, not inconsistent, with law,
as they deem expedient." What these may be at any particular time is unknown. How far they may permit access of
counsel, physicians, the spiritual adviser, and the members
of his family, is a matter iii. their discretion, which, they exercise by general rules, which may be altered at any.time so
as to exclude all these persons, and thus the prisoner be left to
the worst form of solitary confinement.
Even the statutory amelioration is a very limited one. By
the words "his attendants" in the statute, is evidently meant.
the officers of the prison and subordinates, who must necessarily furnish him with his food and his clothing.and make
inspection every day that he still exists. They- may be forbidden by prison regulations, however, from holding any
conversation with him. The attendance .of the counsel can
only be casual, and a very few interviewg, one or two, per-,
haps, are all that he would have before his death, and that
of the physician not at all, unless he was so sick as to require

OCTOBER TERM, f889.
Opinion of the Court.

it, and the spiritual adviser of his own selection, and the members of his family, are all dependent for their opportunities
of seeing the prisoner upon the regulations of the prison. The
solitary confinement, then, which is meant by the statute,
remains of the essential character of that mode of prison life
as it originally was prescribed and carried out, to mark them
as examples of the just punishment of the worst crimes of the
human race.
The brief of counsel for the prisoner furnishes us with
the statutory history of solitary confinement in the English
law The p~ct 25 George II, c. 37, entitled "An act for the
better prevonting the horrid crime of murder," is preceded by
the following preamble "Whereas, the horrid crime of murder
has of late been more frequently perpetrated than formerly,
and whereas it is thereby-become necessary that some further
terror and- peculiar mark of infamy be added to the punishment of death now 5y law upon such as shall be guilty of the
said offence" -then follow certam enactments, the sixth section of which reads as follows. "Be ztfurther enacted, That
from and after such conviction and judgment.given thereupon,
the jailor or keeper to whom such criminal shall be delivered
for safe custody shall confine such prisoner to some cell separate and apart from the other prisoners, and that no person
or.persons whatsoever, except the jailor or keeper, or his servants, shall have access.to any such prisoner, without license
being -first obtained."
This statute is very pertinent to the case before us, as showing, first, what was understood by solitary confinement at
that day, and, second,'that it was considered as an additional
punishment of such a severe -ind that it is spoken of in the
preamble as "a further terror and peculiar mark of infamy"
to be added to the punishment of death. In Great Britain,
as in other countries, public sentiment revolted against this
severity, and by the statute of 6 and 7 William IV, c. 30,
the additional punishment of solitary confinement was repealed.
The term exjpostfacto law, as found in the provision of the
Constitutionof the United States, to; wit, that '"no State shall

MEDLEY, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

pass any bill of attainder, ex Post facto law, or law impairing
the obligation of contracts," has been held to apply to criminal
laws alone, and has been often the subject of construction in
this court. Without making extracts from these decisions,
it may be said that any law which was passed after the commission of the offence for which the party is being tried is an
ex post facto law, when it inflicts a greater punishment than
the law annexed to the crime at the time it was committed,
Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 3g6, 390;-.'Xrng v .Missouri, 107
U. S. 221, Fletcher v reck, 6 Cranch, 87, or which alters
the situation of the accused to his disadvantage, and that no
one can be criminally punished in this country except. according to a law prescribed for Ins government by the sovereign
authority before the imputed offence was committed; or by
some law passed afterwards by which the punishment is not
increased.
It seems to us that the considerations which we have here
suggested show that the solitary confinement to which the
prisoner was subjected by the statute of Colorado of 1889, and
by .the judgment of the court in pursuance of that statute,
was an additional punishme%t of the most important and
painful character, aLk4 is, therefore, forbidden by this provision
-of the Oonstitutono ttbi United States.
1 Another pibvision of 'the statute, which is supposed to be
liable to this objection, bf its e-. post facto character, is found
in section 3, in which the particular day and hour of the execution of the sentence within the week specified by the warrant shall be fixed by the warden, and he shall invite to be
present certain persons named, to wit, a chaplain, a physician,
a surgeon, the spiritual adviser of the convict, and six reputible citizens of the State of full age, and that the time fixed.
by said warden for such execution shall be by hun kept secret,
and in no manner divulged except privately to said persons
invited by him to be present as aforesaid, and such persons
shall not divulge such invitation to aiy person or persons
whomsoever, nor. in any manner disclose-the time of such ex-ecution. And section six provides that any person who. shall
violate or omit to comply with the requirements of section

OCTOBER TERM, 1889
Opinion of the Court.

three of the act shall be punished by fine or imprisonment.
We understand the meaning of this section to be that within
the one week mentioned in the judgment of the court the
warden is charged with the power of fixing the precise day
and hour when the prisoner shall be executed, that he is for
bidden to commumcate that time to the prisoner; that all
persons whom he is directed to invite to be present at the
execution are forbidden to communicate that time to him,
and that, in fact, the prisoner is to be kept in utter ignorance
of the day and hour when his mortal life shall be terminated
by hanging, until the moment arrives when this act is to be
done.
Objections are made to this provision as being a departure
from the law as it stood before, and as being an additional
punishment to the prisoner, and therefore expost facto.
.It is obvious that it confers upon the warden of the penitentiary a power which -had heretofore been solely confided to
the court, and is therefore a 'departure from the law as it
stood when the crime was committed.
Nor can we withhold our conviction of the proposition: that
when a prisoner sentenced by a court to death is confined in
the penitentiary awaiting the execution of the sentence, one
of the most horrible feelings to which he can be subjected
during that time is the uncertainty during the whole of it,
which may exist for the period of four weeks, as to the precise time when his execution shall take place. Notwithstanding the argument that under all former systems of adminsterlng capital punishment the officer appointed to execute it had
a right to select the time of the day when it should be done,
this new power of fixing any day and hour during a period
Qf a week for the execution is a new and important power
conferred on that officer, and is a departure from the law as it
existed at the time the offence was committed, and with its
secrecy must be accompanied by an immense mental anxiety
amounting to a great increase of the offender's punishment.
There are other provisions of the statute pointed out in the
argument of counsel, which are alleged to be subject to the
same objertion, but we think the two we have mentioned are

MEDLEY, Petitioner.
Opimon of the Court.

quite sufficient to show that- the Constitution of the United
States is violated by this statute as applied to crimes com-.
mitted before it came into force.
These considerations render it our 'duty to order the release
of the prisoner from the custody of the warden of.the penitentiary of Colorado, as he is now'held by him under the judgment and. order of the court.
A question suggests itself, however, to the court which is
not a little embarrassing, and whibh was not presented by
counsel in the argument of the case. Tis consideration arises
from the fact that there does not 'seem to be in the record
before us any error in the proceedings of the court on the trial
and the verdict of the jury, by which the party, was convicted
of murder in the first degree- It is only when the sentenc; or
judgment of 'the court upon that -verdict is entered' that the
error of the proceedings commences. When, in the language
of thejudgment of the court, the prisoner was ordered to be'
"kept by the warden of the peilitentlary in solitary confine,
ment until the day of his executibn," and when the knowledge
of the day and the hour of his execution was by the statute
to be withheld from him, the Constitution of the United
States was violated because the additional punishments were,
inflicted on- him by reason of the .direction of the statute,
which we have just geen was an e'pos4facto law, and in those
respects void as bem forbidden by the Constitution of the
United States.
If this were a -writ of error to the Supreme Court 'of. Colorado, as Kring's case was a writ of error to the 'Supreme
Oour t of Missouri, our duty would be plam, namely, to,reverse
the judgment for the error found'in it and remand the case
to the sfate court for further proceedings, If such were the
case before iis our duty would be to reverse the judgment and
remand the case to the court below to deal with the prisoner
m the face of the fact that a verdict of guilty, which was
valid and legal, remains unenforced.. But under the writ of
hab?
corpus .we cannot do anything else than discharg6 the
prisoner from the wrongful confinement m the penitentiary.
under the statute of. Colorado invalid as to this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The language of the act of Congress, however, seems to
have contemplated some emergency of the kind now before
us. Section 761 of the Revised Statutes deeares that the
court, or justice, or judge (before whom the prisoner may be
brought by writ of habeas corpus) shall proceed in a summary.
way to determine the facts of the case by hearing the testimony and argument, and thereupon to dispose of the party as
law and justice require.
What disposition shall we now make of the prisoner, who is
entitled to his .discharge from the custody of the warden of
the penitentiary under the order and judgment of the court,
because, within the language of section '(53, he is in custody
in violation of the Coistitution of the United States, but who
is, nevertheless, guilty, as the record before us shows, of the
crime of murder in the first degree 2 We do not think that
we are authorized to remand the prisoner to the custody of
the sheriff of the proper county to be proceeded against, ill the
court of Colorado which condemned him, in such a manner as
they may think proper, because it is apparent that while the
statute under which he is now held in custody is an ex poet
facto law in regard to his offence, it repeals the former law,
under which he might otherwise have been punished, and we
are not advised whether that court possesses any power to
deal further with the prisoner or not. Such a question is not
before us, because it has not been acted upon by the court
below, an4 it is neither our inclination nor our duty to decide
what the court may or what it may not do in regard to the
case as it stands. Upon the whole, after due deliberation, we
have come to the conclusion that the attorney general of the
State of Colorado shall be notified by the warden of the penitentiary of the precise time when he will release the prisoner
from his custody under the present sentence and warrant at
least ten days beforehand, and after doing this, and at that
time, he shall discharge the prisoner from: his custody; and
such will be the order of this court.
On constderation of the applicatsonfor the discharge of the
.petitioner,James J -Medley, the wnt of habeas coapus,
directIng
A. Lampzng, warden of the. statepenstentsa y

MEDLEY, Petitioner.
Dissenting Opinion. Bradley, Brewer, JJ.

of the etate of Colorado at Caion CIty, Pregont County,
State of Colorado, to produce the body of the sang James
J Medley before this court, and to cert fy the cause of
his detentwn and 'mprsonment, having been duly issued
and served, and the satd J A. Lamp-ing, warden as aforesaul, having certified that said James J Medley s detained
' his custody under and by virtue of a writ sued out of
the.Distrit Court of Arapahoe County, State of Colorado,
and the cause of sasd smfprsonment having been duly 'nquired'mto by this court upoon the return of the sazl writ
of habeas corpus heretofore 'ssued herein, and counsel having been heretofore heard and due constderation having
been had
It tis now here ordered by this court that the imprtsonment
of said James J -Medley, under said writ 'ssued out of
the .Dstrsct Court of Arapahoe County, State of Colorado,
s wzthout authoiity of law and 'n vzolation of the Constitution of the United States, and that the saul James J
Medley 's entitled to have his liberty. Whereupon it zs
hereby ordered that the saul James J Medley be, and he s
hereby, dischargedfromz saud 'mprisonment.
It -isfurther ordered that the saul J A. Lamping, wardew as
aforesaid, do notify the Attorney General of the State of
Colorado of the day and the hour of the day when he will
discharge the saZ James J Aedley.from 'mwsonment,
and that such notice be gven at least ten days before, the
release of the prmsoner
MR. JUsTioE BRE R (witk.whom concurred MR. JusioE
fBRALEY) dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion and judgment as above declared.
The substantial punishment imposed by each statute is death
by hanging. The differences between the two, as to the manner m which this sentence of death shall be carried into execution, are trifling. What are they 2 By the old law, execution
must be within twenty-five days from the day of sentence.
By the new, within twenty-eight days. By the old, confile-

