RT RE GREEN.
Statement" of the Case.

Circuit Court on writ of habeas coi2pu.
-761, Exiarte Boyall, 117 U. S. 241.

-Rev. Stat. §§ 751,

Judgment afflmed.

IN RE GREEN.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COVRT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VMIGMINA.
No. 1117. Submitted January 21, 1890. -Decided

March 24,1890.

The courts of a State have jurisdiction of an indictment for illegal voting
for electors of President and Vice President of the United States; and a
person sentenced by a state court to imprisonment upon such an indictment cannot be discharged by writ of habeas corpus, although the indictment and sentence include illegal voting for a representdtive in Congregs.

THis was a writ of habeazs corpus, granted upon the petition o.f Charles Green, by the Circuit Cour4 of the -United
States, to the sergeant and jailer of the city of Manchester in
the State of Virginia, vwho justified his detention of the prisoner under a judgment of the'hustings or corporation court of
the city, sentencing him to be imprisoned in the city jail for
five weeks and to pay. a fine of five dollars, upon his conviction by a jury on an indictment charging him with unlawfully, knowingly, corruptly, and with unlawful intent, voting
at an election held in that city.for a representative in Congress.and for electors of President and Vice President of the
United States on November 6, 1888, being disqualified by a
previous conviction for petty larceny
By the Code of Virginia of 1881, general elections are held
throughout the State on the fourth Tuesday in May, and on
the first Tuesday after the first Monday in- November, in each
year, for all officers required by law to be chosen at such elections respectively, § 109, persons convicted of bribery at an
election, embezzlement of public funds, treason, felony or
petty larceny, are disqualified to vote, § 62; elections are by
ballot containing the names of all persons intended to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
"Opinion of the Court.

voted for and designating the office of each, § 122, members
of the House of Representatives of the United States are
chosen by the qualified voters of the respective congressional
districts at the general election in November, 1888, and in
every second year thereafter; § 52, electors for President
and Vice President of the United States are chosen by the
qualified voters of the State at the election held on the first
Tuesday after the first Monday in November, 1888, and on the
corresponding day in each fourth year thereafter, or at such
other time as may be appointed by Congress, §§ 54, 55, and
any person, who shall knowingly vote in any election district
in which he does not reside and is registered, or vote more
than once at the same election, "or, not being a qualified
elector, vote at any election w,ith an unlawful intent," shall be
punished by imprisonment in jail not exceeding one year, and
by fine not exceeding $1000. § 3851.
The Circuit Court was of opinion "that the United States
courts for this district have sole and exclusive jurisdiction to
hear and determine the matters and things alleged in the bill
of indictment found in the said hustings court of Manchester,
upon the ground that the acts of Congress in such case made
and provided (Rev Stat. §§ 5511, 5514,) have defined the
offence charged in the said indictment and prescribed the penalty therefor, and that the United States courts have sole and
exclusive jurisdiction thereof, and that the said hustings or
corporation court of Manchester had no jurisdiction of the
matters and things charged in the said indictment against the
said Charles Green," and therefore adjudged that the prisoner be discharged. The respondent appealed to this court.
H" J Ranao 2h Tucker and 1/r R. A. Ayers, Attorney
General of the State of Virginia, for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
MR[h. JusTicE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

In this case, as in Loney's case, just decided, (ante. 372,) the
question presented is whether the courts of the State of Virginia

IlN RE GREEN.
Opunon of the Court.

had jurisdiction of the charge against the prisoner. But that is
the only respect m which the two cases have any resemblance.
By the Constitution of the United States, the electors for
President and Vice President in each State are appointed by
the State in such manner as its legislature may direct, their
number is equal to the whole number of senators and repre-.
sentatives to which the State is entitled in Congress; no senator or representative, or person holding an office of trust or
profit under the United States, shall be appointed an elector,
and the electors meet and vote within the State, and thence
certify and transmit their votes to the seat of government
of the United States. The only rights and duties, expressly
vested by the Constitution-in the national government, with
regard to the appointment or the votes of presidential electors,
are by those provisions which authorize Congress to determine
the time of choosing the electors and the day on which they
shall give their votes, and which direct that the certificates of
their votes shall be opened by the president of the Senate in
the presence of the two houses of Congress, and the votes shall
then be counted. Constitution, art. 2, sect. 1, Amendments,
art. 12.
The sole function of the presidential' electors is to cast, certify and transmit the vote of the -State for President and Vice
President of the-nation. Although the electors are appointed
and act under and pursuant to the Constitution of the United
States, they are no more officers or agents of the United States
than are the members of the state legislatures when acting as
*electors of federal senators, or the people of the States wnen
acting as electors of representatives in Congress. Constitutin,
art. 1, sects. 2, 3.
In accord with the provisions of the Constitution, Congres
has determined the time as of which the number of electors
shall be ascertained, and the days on which they shall be
appointed and shall meet and vote in the States, and on which
their votes shall be counted in Congress, has provided for the
filling by each State, in such manner as its legislature may
prescribe, of vacancies in its college of electors; and has regulated the manner of certifying and transmitting their votes to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmimon of tlie Court.

the seat of the national government, and the course of proceeding in their opening and counting them. Rev Stat. §§ 131143, Acts of February 3, 1887, c. 90, 24 Stat. 373, October
19, 1888, c. 1216, 25 Stat. 613.
Congress has never undertaken to interfere with the manner
of appointing electors, or, where (according to the now generai
usage) the mode of appointment prescribed by the law of the
State is election by the people, to regulate the conduct of such
election, or to punish any fraud in voting for electors, but has
left these matters to the control of the States.
Sections 5511 and 5514 of the Revised Statutes, referred to
in the order of the Circuit Court, were, as observed by this
Court in Coy's Case, 127 U S. 731, 751, made for the security
and protection of elections held for representatives or delegates
in Congress, and do not impair or restrict the power of the
State to punish fraudulent voting in the choice of its electors.
The question whether the State has concurrent power with
the United States to punish fraudulent voting for representatives in Congress is not presented by the record before us.
It may be that it has. Ex yarte Siebold, 100 U S. 371. But
even if the State has no such power in regard to votes for
representatives in Congress, it clearly has such power in
regard to votes for presidential electors, unaffected by anything in the Constitution and laws of the United States, and
the including, in one indictment and sentence, of illegal voting
both for a representative in Congress and for presidential
electors, does not go to the jurisdiction of the state court,
but is, at the worst, mere error, which cannot be inquired into
by writ of habeas corpus. Ex parte Crouch, 112 U S. 178,
In re Coy, 127 U S. 756-759.
Judgment reversed,and case remandedfor further proceed'tngs rn conforrmity with tkW opznwn.

