0TOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

But it is certain that they neither had nor claimed any interest in the title acquired by]Miles under those judgments.
It is well settled that, in order to give this court jurisdiction
to review a judgment of a state court against a title or right
.set up or claimed under a statute of, or an authority exercised
under, the United States, that title or right must be one of
the plaintiff in error, and not of a third person only Owzvgs
v Noiwood, 5 Oranch, 344, Montgomery v lqernandez, 12
Wheat. 129, 132, Henderson v Tennessee. 10 How 311, Hoae
v -Ganevs, 22 How 144, 160, long v Converse, 91 U S. 105.
The title set up by the defendants being that of a third person, in which they have no interest, the writ of error is
Dsmsed for want of,9urzsdicthon.

KINGSBURY v. BUCKN ER.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 176.

Argued January 8,9, 1890.-

Decided April 7, 1890.

In Illinois, a decree agaipst a minor is subject to attack, by an original bill,
for error apparent on the record, for want of jurisdiction, or for fraud.
In Illinois, the rule is that a decree against an infant is absolute in the first
instance, subject to the right to attacc it by original bill, but uutil so
attacked, and set aside or reversed, on error or appeal, it is binding to
the same extent as any-other decree or judgment. The right to so attack it may be exercised at any time before the infant attains his majority or at any time afterwards within the period in which he may prosecute a writ of error for the reversal of such decree.
A decree is subject to attack by original bill for fraud, even after judgment
in the appellate court; but a party, whether an infant or adult, against
whom a decree is rendered by direction- of the appellate court, cannot
impeach it, by bill filed in the court of first instance, merely for errors
apparent on the record, that do not involve the jurisdiction of either
court.
An infant, by his prochemn amy, having elected to prosecute an appeal to the
Supreme Court of Illinois from the decree rendered in the original suit
brought by him, and having appeared-by guardian ad litem to the appeal
of the cross-plaintiffs in the same suit, is s much bound, by the action

KINGSBURY v. BUCKNER.
Statement of the Case.
.of that court in respect to mere errors of law, not involving 3urisdicti.on,
as if he had been an adult when the appeal was taken.
In Illinois, a cross-bill is regarded as an adjunct or part of the original suit,
the whole together constituting one case; and process against the plaintiff is not necessary upon a cross-bill, even where he is an infant.
The plaintiff, by his bill, claimed to own certain reil estate, by inheritance
from his father, to whom the defendants had conveyed it by deed, absolute in form, and prayed for a decree confirming and establishing bis
title. The defendants, by cross-bill, alleged that the deed was made and
accepted for the purpose of placing the title m trust for the benefit of
one of the defendants, and asked a decree to that effect: Held, That the
subject matter of the cross-bill was germane to that of the original bill.
The statutes of Illinois, relating to suits by infants, are not to be interpreted
to mean that no suit in the name of an infant, by next friend, can be entertained, unless such next friend is selected by the infant. Nor does
the right to bring such a suit depend upon the execution by the next
friend of a bond for costs; though he may be required to give such bond
before the suit proceeds to final judgment and execution.
While a guardian ad litem or prochein amy of an infant cannot, by admissions or stipulations in a suit in equity, surrender substantial rights of the
infant, he may, by stipulation, assent to arrangements which will facilitate the trial and determination of 'the cause in which such rights are
involved, and the infant will be bound thereby.
Appeals and writs of error may be taken to the Supreme Court of Illinois
held m the grand division in which the case is decided, or, by consent
of the parties, to any other grand division. A guardian ad litem or next
friend of an infant may. consent that the case, in which the infant is a
party, be heard in some other grand division than the one in which it
was decided, or at a term of the Supreme Court earlier than such appeal
or writ of error would be ordinarily heard,'aud may waive tha executionof an appeal bond by The opposite party.
An appeal bond is not essential to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of
Illinois, any more than in this court, wlere the appeal is allowed and a
transcript of the record is filed in due time; although the appeal may be
dismissed, if such bond is not executed in accordance with the rules or
the order of the court.
Case stated in which a husband is held not to be an incompetent witness,
under the statutes of Illinois, in support of his wife's claim to property.
Various charges of fraud and collusion upon the part of a guardian ad titem
examined and held not to be sustained.
MR. JUSTICE EA.LAN,

on behalf of the court, stated the case

as follows.
This suit involves the title to real . estate of considerable
value in the city of. Chicago, of the ossession of which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

appellant, who was the plaintiff below, claims to have been deprived by certain proceedings in the courts of Illinois, to which
Simon B. Buckner, his wife and others were parties. The
relief sought is a decree declaring those proceedings to have
been erroneous, fraudulent, and void as to the plaintiff, and
adjudging not only that such estate be restored to him, but
that Buckner and wife be held as trustees ex maleftzo, with
liability to account for the income of the property
The history of the plaintiff's claim to the property as well
as of .the proceedings in the state courts, the integrity and
legal effect, of which are assailed in the present suit, must
be.given before examining the grounds on which he seeks a
reversal of the decree.
Major Julius J. B. Kingsbury, of the United States army,
died, intestate, on or about the 25th of June, 1856, seized of
lots designated five and six in block thirty-five on the original
map.of the town of Chicago, and also of that part of the east
half of the northwest quarter df section nine in township
thirty-nine north, of range fourteen east of the third principal
meridian, which lies east of the North Branch of the Chicago
River and south of the centre of Ontario 8treet, in Cook
County, excepting, however, a small portion of the last-named
tract, previously conveyed by him to Buckner.
The .intestate left surviving him his widow, Jane C. Kingsbury, and two children, Mrs. Buckner and Henry W Kingsbury, the father of the appellant. These children were his
only heirs at'law
Bydeed duly executed and acknowledged on the 15th of
May, 1861, Buckner and wife, in consideration of the sum of
one dollar, and ot the natural love and affection" of the grantors for -the grantee, conveyed to Henry W Kingsbury, the
brother of Mrs. Buokner, and, at that time, a lieutenant in the
United States army, one undivided half of the-above lots five
and six, and all their right, title and interest in the "Kingsbury tract," containing thirty-five acres, more .or less, being
the south half of what then remained of the northwest quarter
Df section nine,.township thirty-nine, range fourteen, in Cook
County after deducting therefrom the town of Wabansia,

KINGSBURY v. BUCKXER.
Statement of the Case.

to have and to hold the same to the grantee, his heirs and
assigns forever, the grantors covenanting that they would
warrant the property conveyed. The deed recited that the
other undivided half of the land and tenements formerly
owned by Major Kingsbury belonged to the grantee as one
of his heirs, and that the entire property was subject to the
dower rights of his widow
On the 25th of March, 1862, the plaintiff's father executed
an instrument winch, upon proof that it. was wholly in his
handwriting and signed by him, was ordere'd by the Corporation Court of the City of Alexandria, Virginia, to be recorded
as his last will and testament. And under an order of that
court, passed May 10, 1870, Ambrose E. Burnside qualified as
his executor. On the 11th of July, 1870, that writing, with
the proof thereof, was presented by Burnside, as executor, to
the County Court of Cook County, Illinois, for record, and
by the latter court it was ordered "that the said will and
proof thereof, certified as aforesaid, be recorded, and that the
same be treated and considered as good, nd available in law
i like manner as wills executed in thys State."
The writing referred to is as.follows
"Expecting soon to start upon a military expedition where
death may overtake me, I leave this as a record of my wishes
respecting the disposition of my property
"To my mother, Jane C. Kingsbury, I leave twenty thousand dollars, or so much of my Chicago property as.upon fair
appraisal may be valued at that amount.
"To my sister, Mary J Buckner, I leave as much of the
Chicago property held in my name as shall amount to onethird of *the property in the city of Chicago, Illinois, held by
my father, Julius J. B. Kingsbury, deceased.
"To my cousin,. John J D. Kingsbury, I leave my property at Waterbury, Conn., and in addition thereto five thousand dollars. I trust he will expend it in completing his
education.
"The remainder of my property .of bvery'-description I
leave to my devoted wife, Eva. I desire, moreover, that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

provisions of this will be so carried out that the yearly income
of my wife for her own personal support shall never be less
than two thousand dollars.
"As executors I name Ambrose E. Burnside, of Rhode
Island, and Capt. John Taylor, Commissary Department,
U. S. Army
"Signed at Fortress Monroe, Va., March 25, 1862.
" HNy
W KINGsBURY,
"First Zwuetenant 5th Reg,.ment Artille2y, U S. Army."
Lieutenant -oingsburywas killed at the battle of Antietam
on the 17th of September, 1862.
On the 18th of July, 1870, the plaintiff herein, suing by
Corydon Beckwith, his next friend, instituted an action in the
Circuit Court of Cook County, sitting in equity, against Simon
B. Buckner, Mrs. Buckner, Ambrose E. Burnside, Jane C.
Kingsbury, John J D. Kingsbury, Albert G. Lawrence and
Eva Lawrence. The last-named defendant, as Eva Taylor,
intermarried with Lieutenant Kingsbury on the 4th of
December, 1861. The only child of that marriage was the
plaintiff, who was born December 16, 1862, after the death
of his father. His mother, subsequently, September 26, 1865,
intermarried with Albert G. Lawrence.
It was alleged m that bill that the plaintiff's father died
intestate, seized in fee-simple of the estate conveyed by the
above deed of May 15, 1861, and that upon his death it passed
to the plaintiff, subject only to the dower rights of his mother
and grandmotber, and to certain incumbrances outstanding
against the property or some portions of it, and that by a
decree rendered in a suit instituted in 1868 by Jane C. Kingsbury in the same court against Eva Lawrence, Albert G.
Lawrence, himself, and one David J Lake, (who assumed to
act as the plaintiff's guardian,) John Woodbridge was appointed receiver of the entire income of the premises, accruing
and to accrue, with power to lease and manage the property
under the orders of the eourt, and with direction to pay out
o such income to his grandmother, Jane C. Kingsbury, and
to his mother, the sums to which they were respectively en-

KINGSBURY v. BUCKNTER.
Statement of the Case.

titled, to provide for the maintenance and support of the
plaintiff, and to pay the -interest upon certain mortgages
upon the property, as well as other expenses incident to its
care and management.
Referring to the writing executed at Fortress Monroe,
Virginia, on the 25th of March, 1862, the bill alleged that it
was delivered to John McLean Taylor for safe-keeping; that
neither at the time of his death, nor at any time thereafter,
was his father an inhabitant or resident of Virginia, nor did
he have any property in that State, that the Corporation
Court of the city of Alexandria had no jurisdiction to admit
said will to probate or record that neither of the proceedings
in that court, nor of those in the County Court of Cook
County, Illinois, had Jane C. Kingsbury, Eva Lawrence, John
McLean Taylor or himself any notice, that the plaintiff's
father did not sign said paper in the presence of any attesting
witness, nor was the same attested by any witness in Ins presence, that it was not executed with the requisite forms and
solemnities to make the same available for the granting and
conveying of the property therein mentioned, according to the
laws of Connecticut, the place of his domicil, or of Maryland,
where he died, or of the State m which any of his property
was situated, that it was not entitled to probate in Illinois,
that, nevertheless, Burnside, combining with the other defendants in that suit, alleged and pretended that it was a valid will
for passing the title to property in Illinois, and said Jane C.
Kingsbury, Mary J. Buckner, John J D. Kingsbury and Eva
Lawrence, named in said pretended will as devisees or legatees,
claim under it, but without right, some interest in the said
estate of the plaintiff.
The prayer for relief was that said instrument be declared
invalid and of no legal force and effect as a last will and testament, that the proceedings relating to it in the County Court
of Cook County be reversed and set aside, or declared to be
null and void, as constituting a cloud upon plaintiff's title to
the real estate hereinbefore described, that his right and title
by inheritance to that estate as the posthumous son and. only
heir at law of the said Henry W Kingsbury, deceased be

OCTOBER TERM. 1889.
Statement of the Case.

confirmed and established, that an the meantime Burnside,
Buckner and wife, and John J D. Kingsbury be enjoined and
restrained from intermeddling with the said estate, or with the
rents, issues or profits thereof, and from attempting in any way
to obstruct or interfere with Woodbridge in the performance of
his duties as receiver, and that on the final hearing of the
cause the injunction be made perpetual.
On the 31st of October, 1870, Buckner and wife filed their
joint and several answer to the bill. Answers were also filed
by Jane C. Kingsbury, Burnside and John J D. Kingsbury,
which put in issue all the material allegations of the bill.
Buckner" and wife also filed October 31, 1870, a cross-bill
against the plaintiff and their co-defendants Eva Lawrence,
Albert G. Lawrence and Jane C. Kingsbury, which, after setting out all the material averments both of the bill and of their
answeri alleged that the real estate of which Major Kingsbury
died seized included all the lands described in the original bill,
that while the legal title to the strip along the east branch of
the North Branch of the Chicago River, seventy feet in width
for the full length of the tract, was vested in Simon B. Buckner by deed of January 22, 1855, he had no beneficial interest
-therein, and Major Kingsbury was at his death its real owner,
that the title to the real estate of which the latter died seized
descended to and vested in Mrs. Buckner and-her brother, subject to the widow's right of dower and to the incumbrances
thereon, that the defendants were married when Major Kingsbury died, and m 1858 had issue to their marriage, a daughter,
who was then living, by reason whereof defendant Simon B.
Buckner became vested with a life estate as tenant by the
curtesy initiate in the property vested in hiswife, and that at
the death of her father he, the defendant Buckner, had the
ull control and management of the real estate left by him,
and retained such control until it was placed under the management of Ambrose E. Burnside some time in December, 1860.
In respect to the deed of May 15, 1861, by Buckner and
wife to Lieutenant Kingsbury, the cross-bill showed that the
value of the property covered by it was five hundred thousand
dollars, and, except an undivided half of certain real estate of

KENGSBURY v. BUCKNER.
Statement of the Case.

small value in Connecticut, was the only property held by

M1rs. Buckner, her brother being the owner of the other undivided half of the property described in that deed, that said
deed was executed without the knowledge of the grantee,
who was ignorant of its existence until several weeks after its
execution, when he was informed of the facts in the premises,
that it was sent by Buckner to his agent in Chicago with directions to file it for record, which was done on the 17th of May,
1861, and that constituted the only delivery of it ever made to
the grantee, and that it was made without any consideration,
contract, arrangement, bargain or promise whatever, and was
not acknowledged in accordance with the laws of Illinois.
The cross-bill also alleged that the sole purpose of the deed
of 1861 was to. vest the title of the property thereby conveyed in the grantee, as naked trustee, and not to make to
hun a gift, that it was the intention of the cross-plaintiff
Simon B. Buckner to waive all claim to it, to allow his wife
the sole use and enjoyment thereof, and to place the control
of it in her own family, but he claimed all his legal and equitable rights in the premises, and asked that the trust be enforced so as to enable him to carry his intention into effect, to
which end he would assent to any decree conferring the sole
control and benefit of the property upon his wife, her heirs
and assigns, that in the month of December, 1S60, the
deceased and Simon B.. Buckner for themselves, Jane C.
Kingsbury and Mrs. Buckner, made an arrangement with
Ambrose E. Burnside, then residing in Chicago, to take
charge of and manage the property for all the parties, and
that Lieutenant Kingsbury never exercised any acts of ownership over, or asserted any interest in, the property inconsistent
with said trust, and, if he had lived, would have recognized
the equitable and just claim of the cross-plaintiffs, and reconveyed the same upon request.
The cross-bill then referred to the will of March 25, 1S62,
and alleged that the only property in Chicago vested in the
testator at that date was the real estate left by his father,
Wvhich desceilded to him and his sister, Mrs. Buckuer, and
tUnt the only conveyance ever made to him of property in
VOL. cxxx=v-42

OCTOBER TERM, '1889.
Statement of the Case.

that city and the only property there held in his name for
the use of any person, was that described in the deed of
Buckner and wife of May 15, 1861, that prior to the mak
irfg of that will the Chicago property had been used solely
to receive the rents and profits, the testator, his mother and
sister being treated as if each had been entitled to one-third,
that the testator, who was only twenty-three years of age,
recently from West Point, without business experience, and
unacquainted with the rules of law, and acting under the
impression that Mrs. Buckner was the owner of only one-third,
made the provision in his will for Mrs. Buckner, with the
purpose to declare said trust, and to restore to the control of his sister all the property described in the above deed, that,
therefore, the will is a sufficient declaration in writing of the
trust to take it out of the statute of. frauds, if it was a trust
within its provisions, and that said will was legally admitted
to probate by the laws of Virginia, by a court having jurisdic-'
tion in such matters, and was certified and admitted to record
in Illinois in conformity with its laws.
It further alleged. "And your orators further show that
the said Henry W Kingsbury, on the 23d day-of October,
1861, wrote with his own hand a letter to his mother, Jane
C. Kingsbury, and signed the same by his signature 'Henry,'
in which, among other things, he wrote 'I spent all the
morning with Burnside, yesterday .He stated, as I told you,
that Simon had made over all the Chicago property that
was held in his name to me. A new power of attorney is
therefore necessary from you and myself. We made one out.
I siogned it. Burnside will send it to you? And they aver
that the reference in said letter by the words ' as I told. you'
was to a conversation between the said Henry W Kingsbury
and his mother, had in their last personal interview before the
date of said letter, in which the said Henry W Kingsbury
expressly admitted that he held all the property of your orator,
Mary K. Buckner, inherited from her father, in trust for a
short time, and said that he would restore it all to her whenever she desired. And your orators show that the only delivery of said deed bearing date May 15, 1861, ever made, was

KINGSBURY v. BUCKNER.
Statement of the Case

the filing of the same for record by the said Simon B. Buekner,
as herembefore set forth."
The relief asked in the cross-bill was

That the deed of

May 15, 1861, be declared null and void as to Mrs. Buckner,
that it be declared a deed of trust to the father of the plaintiff for the use and benefit of the grantors or one of them,
that the plaintiff be adjudged -to hold the property described
in it as a trustee in like manner, and required to reconvey to
the cross-plaintiffs or to one of them, as may be determined
by the court, that an account be taken of the receipts and
disbursements from and about the property by the defendants;
that the dower rights of Jane C. Kingsbury and Eva Lawrence
be ascertained and fixed, and-partition made of said real estate,
and the property owned by the cross-plaintiffs restored to
them as they might be severally entitled thereto, and that
they have such other and further relief as was just and
equitable.
By an order made November 25, 1870, Corydon Beckwith
-no service of process having been made upon the infant was appointed guardian ad litwe for Henry W Kingsbury on
the cross-bill. The infant, -by. un, filed an answer, which distinctly put m issue the material allegations of the cross-bill,
and restated substantially all that was set out in the original
bill. Answers to the cross-bill were also filed by Lawrence
and wife. To these answers replications were filed by Buckner and wife.
On the 31st of December, 1870, the cause being heard, it
was adjudged that both the original and cross-suits be dismissed without prejudice. It was further ordered that the
decree be entered as of the 24th of December, 1870. At the
same time there was filed in the cause a certificate of all
the evidence used on the final hearing in the Circuit Court.
Each party prosecuted an appeal. The case was heard in
the Supreme Court of the State at its January term, 1871,
and on the 5th of October, 1871, that court reversed the
decree of the Circuit Court and remanded the cause with
special directions as to the decree to be entered, and for further proceedings. Zingsbury v Buqwssde, 58 Illinois, 310, 337.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

The following extract from the opinion of the court shows
the grounds as well as the extent of the reversal.
"The late Henry W Kingsbury was, as this case shows, not
only a trustee of the property for his sister, but he was an
honest trustee. By the last act of his life, in this respect, he
designed to, and did, admit the existence of the trust, and
endeavored to execute it. Immediately after his death, his
widow, one of the defendants, in a letter to the mother of her
deceased husband, recognized and admitted the trust, so far as
she was concerned, in the most express terms, and seemed distressed at the suggestion of any obstacle to its immediate execution. Though her relations in life, and to the cestus q'ue
trust, became afterwards changed by another marriage, vet it
is incredible that if she has been cognizant of the efforts which
have been made to conceal the most important item of evidence of her former husband's relation to this vast property,
and to wrest it from its proper channel, she can view them
otherwise than with feelings of sorrow and regret. Her conduct has been the subject of severe criticism by counsel, but
we are inclined to believe that she, like the unconscious infant
whose name appears as plaintiff in the original bill, is but the
involuntary instrument in the hands of designing men, who
stand in no such relation to the memory of the deceased trustee as does Eva Lawrence.
"The trust being sufficiently manifested and proved by
writings, signed by the party who was, by law, enabled to
declare it,-it must be executed.
"This conclusion renders unnecessary any discussion of the
question, made by appellants -in the cross-bill, as to the sufficiency of the acknowledgment of the deed by Mary J Buckner, or of the question made by appellant in the original bill
as to the execution and probate of the will, because, if properly executed and admitted to probate, the will would be governed by the laws of this State, where the property is situated,
and the posthumous birth of the infant lHenry'W Kingsbury
would, by those laws, operate ds an abatement of all devises
of property so situated. Gross' Statutes, p. 800, see. 16, Wills.
esides, the testator was incapable of divesting the property,

KINGSBURY v. BUCKNER.
Statement of the Case.

held m. Ins name, for the use of Mary J. Buckner, by any
devise he could make.
"The decree of the court below, dismissing both bills without prejudice, must, therefore, be reversed and the causes remanded, with-directions to that court to dismiss the original bill
absolutely, and to grant the relief prayed in the cross-bill, by a
decree establishing the equitable title in Mary J.. Buckner, to
her proper share of the real estate described in the deed of
May 15, 1861, declaring the trust, and requiring the proper
conveyance of the legal title to her, divested of any life estate
in her husband, (he having renounced the same,) and of all
right of dower in Eva Lawrence, that an account be taken
between said Mary J. Buckner and all other parties interested
in the estate of Julius J. B. Kingsbury, deceased, according to
the rules and practice of the court of chancery m such cases,
and it be decreed accordingly"
The cause was redocketed in the Circuit Court of Cook
County, and on the 13th of November, 1871, in pursuance of
the special directions of the Supreme Court of Illinois m its
mandate and opinion, the original bill was dismissed for want
of equity It wNs also ordered and adjudged, pursuant to such
mandate and opinion, that the master in chancery make, bixecute, acknowledge and deliver a deed conveying, for Henry W
Kingsbury, the infant defendant to the cross-bill to Mrs. Buckner, the real estate and premises conveyed by the deed of 'May
15, 1861, divested of any life estate in her husband.
It was further ordered and adjudged, that partition be
made between Henry W Kingsbury and Mrs. Buckner, as
tenants in common of the real -estate innerited from Major
Kingsbury, (one undivided half of which was owned by each,)
the share of the lots or lands assigned to the former to be subject to the dower rights of Jane C. Kingsbury and Eva Lawrence, and the share assigned to Mrs. Buckner to be subject to
the dower rights of Jane C. Kingsbury It was further ad'judged that Eva Lawrence be enjoined from asserting any
claim for dower in the property assigned to Mrs. Buckner.
The accounting between the parties to the cross-bll,.and the
costs, and the question -in regard to the dower of Mrs. Kingsbury, were reserved for the further order of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

The commissioners appointed to make partition made their
report on the 22d of January, 1872, and the same was confirmed, February 12, 1872, except as to that part of the premises known as the Spencer tract, in respect to which objections
had been filed in behalf of Kingsbury by his guardian ad litem.
Under writs of assistance issued in favor of Mrs. Buckner on
the 29th of January, 1872, she was placed in possession of the
property assigned and confirmed to her. On the 26th of
Mlarch, 1872, the court sustained a motion for leave to the
receiver to pay Mrs. Buckner one-half of all moneys collected
by him on policies of insurance. From that order the infant,
by his guardian ad litem, prayed and was allowed an appeal to
the Supreme Court of the State. It is stated that the exceptions filed for the infant to the reports were overruled on the
2d of August, 1872, and a decree entered confirming those
parts of them to which exception had been taken, and declaring the parties vested with the title to the lands respectively
set off and allotted to them. And from that decree the infant, by his guardian ad litem, prayed and was allowed an
appeal.
The case was again carried to the Supreme Court of the
State upon the infant's appeal, by his then guardian ad lite,n,
(a new one having been appointed,) who assigned numerous
errors in that court, among which were the following That
the court erred in rendering the decree of November 13, 1871,
that it was rendered without proof against the infant, and was
contrary to law, and that it was not in accordance with the
mandate of the court, and was without jurisdiction in the
Cook Circuit Court. The remaining assignments related, principally, to alleged errors in reference to the partition, the
report of the commissioners, the distribution of insurance
money and the apportionment of the incumbrances. Upon
the hearing of this last appeal, the solicitor representing the
infant and his guardian ad litem urged numerous objections to
the proceedings in the Circuit Court among which were these
That the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction over the infant to
render the decree of November 13, 1871, on the cross-bill of
Buckner and wife, and that such decree was rendered without

KOI GSBURY v. BUOKER.
Statement of the Case.

sufficient proof, was collusively obtained against the infant,
and was manifestly unjust. In connection with these general
objections the solicitor of the infant presented many specifications of fraud alleged to have been practised by the former
guardian ad litem of the infant in and about the proceedings
culminating in the decree of November 13, 1871. Most of
these specifications are again presented in the present suit, and
will be hereafter examined.
At the September term, 1872, of the Supreme Court of
Illinois, the last decree was reversed mainly upon the ground
that Mrs. Buckner had no interest in what was called the
Spencer tract. Zin gsunry v. Buckner, 70 Illinois, 514. In reference to the attempt made upon that appeal to reopen the
questions decided on the first appeal, the court said.
"A labored argument has been made to prove the. error of
the former decision of the court, and it is charged that fraud
and collusion were practised, and incompetent .testimony adduced, to obtain it. If this were true, we cannot determine
questions so grave upon exwarte affidavits. Ifthere have been
fraud and col]usion; the proper remedy would be in chancery,
and then the parties. assailed could have an opportunity of
making a defence, or, if the decree is directed by the court
of final resort, by an application for a rehearing.
" Upon the former hearing, after full argument, this court
decided that Henry W Kingsbury held the property conveyed
by the deed from Mrs. Buckner and husband to him, as trustee, that the trust had been manifested by a writing; and
that she had an equitable title to a share in the estate. The
cause was remanded to ascertain her share, and not to determine the trust. The latter had been established by the declaration of this court. This appeal is prosecuted from the
decree making partition, and can bring before us no otherquestion, except questions incident to the order for partition.
We cannot examine as to the merits of the original case, bur
only as to proceedings subsequent to the decision. at the forThe trust relation between the parties was
mer hearing.
established by the former decision, and the court has not the
power to reverse it."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

A rehearing was granted, and at the September term, 1873,
of the Supreme Court of -theState, the following opinion was
delivered
"_Per oumam A rehearing was ordered in this cause upon
the present appeal, not for the purpose of reconsidering the
case upon the merits, or to change, or, in any substantial sense,
to modify our former decision, but to render the opinion of
the court more explicit, and prevent misconception of its
meaning. This seems demanded by the peculiar state of the
record, which was inadvertently overlooked, and the language
employed in the opinion, to which our attention has been
called by the application for a rehearing.
"When the cause was before us upon a former occasion, the
principal questions inyolved were definitely settled. The decree of the court below, dismissing both the original and crossbills, was reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions
to grant the relief prayed by Mrs. Buckner's cross-bill. 58
Illinois, 310. In pursuance of those directions, a decree was
entered in the Circuit Court, November 13, 1871. This decree
established the principal rights of the parties, and the court
proceeded to carry them into effect, which involved the necessity of entering three subsequent decretal orders, and on August 2, 1872, another and final decree. This decree disposed
of a controversy arising between the parties upon proceedings
for partition, involving a claim by Mrs. Buckner, to a share
in what is called the ' Spencer tract,' as a part of her father's
estate, and by that decree her claim was allowed, from which
an appeal was taken on behalf of the infant, Henry W Kingsbury, to this court. No appeal was taken from the decree of
November 13, 1871, but appeals were taken from some of the
decretal orders intervening that and the final decree of August
2, 1872:
"Upon these appeals the whole record was brought to this
court, and errors assigned, questioning the propriety of the
decree of November 13, 1871, entered in conformity with the
directions of this court, some of the intervening orders, and
the final decree of August 2, 1872. The questions raised and
attempted to be raised were all carefully considered, and the

KINGSBURY v. BUCKNER.
I Statement of the Case.

conclusion arrived at was, that no error could be assigned
upon the first decree, entered an pursuance of the directions of
this court, that the points made upon the intervening orders
were not well- taken, but that the decree of August 2, 1872,
was erroneous and ought to be reversed, for the reasohs given
in the opimon. These views, however, are ,not clearly announced in the former opimon, and it follows also that the
directions contained in the opinion -#hich have n~o relation to
the matters involved in the decree- of August 2, 1872, are
wholly inappropriate, and may be considered as withdrawn
from the opinion.
"The judgment which we intended to enter was, that the
several decrees and decreta orders antecedent, to the final decree of August 2, 1872, and upon which error was assigned,
be affirmed, but that the decree of August 2 1872, concerning
Mrs. Bucknel's claim in the Spencer tract, beiTeversed, and the
cause remanded for fgrther proceedings in conformity with
the former opinion, as herein explained and modified, and
that each party pay half of the costs in this court."
It should be here stated that the present transcript does not
contaih the decree of August 2, 1872.
On the 7th of March, 1877, the death of Mrs. Buckner was
suggested in the Circuit Court, and her daughter, Lily Buckner,
was substituted in her place as a co-complainant in the crossbill, and on the same day a decree was rendered in conformity
with the opinion and judgment of the Supreme Court of the
State, annulling so much of the deed executed by the master
to Mrs. Buckner as conveyed to her one undivided half of the
Spencer tract, and directing a conveyance of that tract to the
infant, Henry W Kingsbury
The present suit was brought in the Circuit Court of Cook
County, Illinois, on the 11th day of August, 1873, for Henry W
Kingsbury, by Eva Lawrence, his next friend, against Simon B.
Buckner, Mrs. Buckner, Jane C. Kingsbury, John J D. Kingsbury, Ambrose E. Burnside and Corydon Beckwith. As already
stated, its object was to obtain a decree declaring the proceedings, above referred to, to be erroneous, fraudulent and void as
to him, and restoring him to the possession and ownership of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument

or Appellant.

the property embraced.by the deed executed May 15, 1861, by
Buckner and wife to his father. The bill is lengthy, setting
forth substantially all the above steps taken in the suit in the
state courts, and going very much into detail in respect to
the various grounds upon which he bases his claim to relief.
Shortly after this bill was filed, Beckwith, Buckner and wife,
and Burnside, filed general demurrers. But no further steps
were taken in the cause until April 16, 1877, when it was dismissed for want of prosecution. The order of dismissal was,
however, set aside, and Buckner and Burnside, having obtained
leave to withdraw their demurrers, filed May 17, 1877, (Mrs.
Buckner having died,) a plea in bar, based upon the bill, crossbill, pleadings, proceedings, and decrees in the former case.
They also filed a joint and several answer. The cause was
removed upon the petition of the plaintiff to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois,
where, upon final hearing, and after replications were filed, in
behalf of the infant, to both the plea and the answer of Buckner
and wife, the suit was ordered to be abated as to Mrs. Buckner,
the demurrers of Beckwith and Mrs. Kingsbury were sustained,
and the bill dismissed for want of equity This is the decree
which has been brought here for review
.Mr L1yman Trumbull for appellant.
I. A minor may file a bill to impeach a decree procured by
fraud, or for error appearing upon the face of the decree.
Lloyd v .Malone, 23 Illinois, 43, Euohenbetser v. Beckert, 41
Illinois, 172, Htess Vo ss, 52 Illinois, 472; Lloyd v. Zirkwood,
112 Illinois, 329, Story's Eq. Pl. § 427, Gooch v. Green, 102
Illinois, 507, Wrtght v Miller, 1 Sandf. Ch. 103. The demurrers admit the fraud, collusion and falsification of the
record as charged, and should have been overruled.
II. The original suit of Henry W Kingsbury, of Newport,
in the State of Rhode Island, an infant seven years and seven
months of age, commenced by Corydon Beckwith, as his next
frend, July 18, 1870, was instituted without authority of
-said infant, without filing the bond required by the statute,

KIGSBUR r v. BUCKNER.
Argument -for Appellant.

and gave the court no jurisdiction to pass upon his rights.
Rev Stats. Illinois, 1845, c. 47, § 13, Lather2 v. Fish,4 Lansing,
213, -Grayv Larmore, 4 Sawyer, 638.
III. The so-called cross-bill of Buckner and wife against
Henry W Kingsbury, was, in fact, an oignal bill. It was
not germane to the original suit, and whether germane or
not, the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the same without
the service of process upon the minor. The appointment of
Beckwith guardian ad Zitent of the minor, who had no notice
of the cross-suit,.on motion of the complainants therein, was
error, and did not give the Circuit Court jurisdiction to divest
the minor of his real estate. Campbelt v Campbell, 63 Illinois,
462, 3cDermazd v Russell, 41 Illinois, 489; Hickenbottom v
Blacdledge, 54 Illinois, 316, Wrzgt v. .Miller, 1 Sandf. Ch.
123, Walker v Hallett, 1 Alabama, 379, Graham v. ,Sublett,
6 J. 3. Marsh. 44, Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 9 WalL 807.
IV The Supreme Court of Illinois in the Central Grand
Division had no jurisdiction of the appeal from the decree of
the Circuit Court of Cook County, except by consent of
parties. Art. 6, § 8, Constitution of 1870; Starr & Curtis'
Stats. 131, Peogle v. Supermviors .of Vermilion County, 40
Illinois, 125, Owens v. 3c-Eethe, 5 Gilman, 79, Gqforth v.
Adams, 11 Illinois, 52.
V lNeither an infant, nor his guardian ad lim, could, by
consent, confer jurisdiction on a court which would not otherwise have it. Rhoads V. _Rhoads, 43 Illinois, 239, Enos v
Cipps, 12 Illinois, 255, Bank of the United States v. Ritchze;
8 Pet. 128, Tischer v. .Fischer, 54 Illinois, 231, Wrght v.
Afiller, 1 Sandf. Ch. 103.
VI. It. was not competent for the guardian ad litem to
waive the giving of an appeal bond, by the cross-complaiantt
oa their appeal to the Supreme Court: The giving of a bond,
is a prerequisite to the allowance of an appeal, and even if it
were in the power of the guardian ad litem to waive it, the
Supreme Court had no jurisdiction to entertain the appeal
without such bond. Rev. Stats. 1845, c. 83, § 47, Gross' Stats.
1871, p. 516, Simpson v. Alexander, 5 Gilman, 260, Chwago,
of Marseilles, 104 Illinois, 91,
.Pehn &c. Railroadv. Trus

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellant.

United States v. Curry, 6 How 106, Y7w lucy, 8 Wall. 307,
309, Washington County v .Durant,7 Wall. 694, Tillabolos
v United States, 6 How 81, Lewms v. Shear, 93 Illinois, 121,
Page v. The People, 99 Illinois, 418, Protection Ins. Co. v.
Foote, 79 Illinois, 3M1.
VII. The decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois in
assumed appeals from the decrees of the Circuit Court of Cook
County, entered December 24, 1870, and August 2, 1872, and
reported in 58 Illinois, 310, and 70 Illinois. 515, wherein the question of jurisdiction to entertain said appeals was not raised
or passed upon by the court, cannot be set up in bar or be
used as evidence against the appellant in this case, when it is
made to appear that the Supreme Court did not have jurisdiction of said appeals. Harrs v Hardeman, 14 How 333,
Borden v Fitch, 15 Johns. 121, 141, S. C. 8 Am. Dec. 225,
fHollingsworth v. Barbour,4 Pet. 466.
VIII. After the dismissal of the original bill by the Circuit
Court of Cook. County, November 13, 1871, the Circuit Court
no longer had jurisdiction of said original suit or of the crosssuit, as such. No guardian ad litem of the minor was subsequently appointed, and all orders entered after that date in
said original suit or said cross-suit, as such, were without
jurisdiction and void.
IX. The exhibits offered in evidence by appellees, were
inadmissible, and, if admitted, did not sustain the plea. The
Circuit Court inadvertently found that no .replication was
filed to the answers of Buckner and Burnside. The replication is to be found.
X. It was error for the guardian ad litern to waive any of
the rights of the minor, or to allow the introduction of illegal
and incompetent evidence in support of the cross-bill, without
objection. Cartwnght v. Wise, 14 Illinois, 417, Fischer v.
Fischer, 54: Illinois, 231. The testimony of Simon Buckner
and Jane C. Kingsbury, parties to the cross-bill, and interested
in the result of the suit, and upon which the Supreme Court
based its decision, was incompetent, and it was the duty of
the guardian ad litem to have objected to the same. Laws
1867, 183, § 2, Gross' Stats. 1871, 274, Fischer v Fischer, 54
Illinois, 231, 235, Beeves v Rerr, 59 Illinois, 81.

MNGSBURY v. BUCINMR.
Opinion of the Court.

XI. The whole record shows that the rights of the minor
were not presented to the court, that the decree against him
upon the cross-biU was the result of negligence, that the entire proceedings m both the Circuit and Supreme Courts were
a contrived case, carried on by the waiver of the infant's
rights, and are not binding upon the infant, because "there
was no earnest controversy"
Games v _?eoA 12 How 472,
537, 539, PaXlc Railroad of -isou
v. -Missouz Pacfto
Railway, 111 U. S. 505.

XII. The decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois, 58 Illinois, 310, was obtained by fraud upon a falsified record and
should be set aside, and with it all decrees entered by the Circuit Court of Cook County in pursuance of such decision.
.M TV

G.Goudy for appellees.

.Ar John P

Wilson closed for appellant.

IM. JusicE HARLAN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The first proposition advanced by appellant is, that a decree
against a minor is subject to attack, by an original bill, upon
the ground of error apparent upon the record, want of jurisdiction or fraud. Such is the rule in Illinois, in one of whose
courts this suit originated, and by one of whose courts the
decree sought to be set aside was rendered. Lloyd v -Malone,
23 Illinois, 43, .- uclhenbezser v. Beckert, 41 Illinois, 172, 177,
Hess v 'Foss, 52 Illinois, 472, 478, Kingsbury v Buckner, 70
Illinois, 514, 516, Lloyd v. Kirciwood, 112 Illinois, 329, 337.
In the case last cited, the Supreme Court of Illinois, after observing that there was considerable diversity of opinion as to
whether a decree could be assailed by original bill "for error
merely, said "In many of the States, however, including our
own, a-decree against an infant, like that against an adult, is
absolute in the first instance, subject to the right to attack it
by original bill, for either fraud or error merely; but, until so
attacked, and set aside or reversed, on error or appeal, it is

OCTOBER TERM1, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

binding to the same -extent as any other decree or. judgment.
This right to attack a decree by original bill may be exercised
at any time before the infant attains his majority, or at any
time afterwards within the period in which he may, under
the statute, prosecute a writ of error for the reversal of such
decree."
Although the cases in Illinois concede the right, by original
bill, to impeach a decree for fraud, and although this court
has recognized that right as existing even after the decree has
been. affirmed by an appellate court, Paet& Riailroad v
Ketchum, 101 U. S. 289, 296, Pac *tl Racilroad of .issour?, v.
iMissour. Pao. Railway, 111 U. S. 505, 519, none of the cases

cited from either court sustain the proposition that a party,
whether an infant or adult, against whom a decree is rendered
by direction of the appellate court, can impeach it, by bill filed
in the court of first instance, for errors apparent on the record,
and which do not involve the jurisdiction of either court.
The decree which the appellant seeks to have set aside was
rendered in conformity with the mandate of the Supreme
Court of Illinois, requiring that the original bill in the first
suit be dismissed, and that a decree be entered upon the crossbill, adjudging the property in question to belong to Mrs.
Buckner, and not to him. It is the one which the Supreme
Court of the State held, in Eingsbury v. Buckner, 70 Illinois,
514,516, 517, was beyond even its own control when questioned
upon a second appeal in the same case. And this is in accordance with the settled doctrines of this court. In Roberts v
Cooper, 20 How 467, 481, (cited in 70 Illinois, 517,) this court
said "It has been settled by the decisions of this court, that
after a case has been brought here and decided, and a mandate
issued to the court below, if a second writ of error is sued out,
it brings up for revision nothing but the proceedings subsequent to the mandate. None of the questions which were
before the court on the first writ of error can be reheard or
examined upon the second. To allow a second writ of error
or appeal to a court of last resort on the same questions which
were open to dispute on the first, would lead to endless litigation." So, in Durant v Bssex Co., 101 U. S.555, 556, it is said

KINGSBURY v: BUCKNER.
Opinion- of the Court.

"On a mandate from this court affirming a decree, the Circuit
Court can only record our order and proceed with the execution of its own decree as affirmed. It has no power to rescind
or modify what we have established.
The result of the
appeal to us was an affirmance of what had been done below
After the appeal had been taken, the power of the court below
over its own decree was gone. All it could do after that was
to obey. our mandate when it was sent down. We affirmed
its decree and ordered execution. We might have ordered a
modificati0n so as to declare that the dismissal should be without prejudice. We did not do so. The.Circuit Court had no
power after that to do what we might have done and did not
do." See also Browder v. -cArthur, 7 Wheat. 58, Tytar v
Aagwre, 17"Wall. 253, 284, The Lady Pike, 96 LU_ S. 461,
462, Stewart v. Salamon, 97 U. S. 361, JHumTPkey v. Baker;

103 U. S. 736, 737. it is obvious that the same principle
must apply where a party, instead of prosecuting a second
appeal, attempts by a bill of review, or by a new bill in the
nature of a bill of review, to reach errors apparent upon the
face of the record. In Southard v. Russell, 16 How 547,
570 - cited with approval in .ingslry v. Buckner, 70 Illi.
nois 514, 516 -it
was said "As already stated, the decree
sought to be set aside by this bill'of review in the court below
was entered in pursuance of the mandate of this court. on an
appeal in the- original suit. It is therefore the decree of this
court, and not that primarily entered by the court below, that
is sought to be interfered with. The better opinion is, that a
bill of review will not lie at all for errors of law alleged on
the face of the decree, after. the, judgment of the appellate
court. These may be corrected by a direct application to
that court, which would amend, as matter of course, any error
of the kind that might have occurred in entering the decree.
Nor will a bill of review lie in the case of newly discovered"
evidence after the publication, or decree below, where a decision has taken place on an appeal, unless the Tight.is reserved
in the decree of the appellate court, or permission be -given on
an application to that court directly for the purpose. This
appears to be the practice of the Court of Chancery and House

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

of Lords, in England, and we think it founded in principles
essential to the proper administration of the law, and to a
reasonable termination of litigation between parties in chancery suits."
Among the cases cited in Southard v Russell -was that of
,Brewer v. Bowman, 3 J. J Marsh. 402, in which the court,

fter observing that the remedy by bill of review for errors
apparent upon the record was analogous to that of a writ of
error said "Hence, an affirmance in this courA upon writ
of error would bar a bill of review for any error which might
exist in the record, but which was not assigned nor inquired
into by this court. It follows that a reversal by this court,
upon a writ of error (and we perceive no reason why a
reversal upon an appeal should not have the same effect) with
directions how to render the decree, and the rendition of the
decree by the Circuit Court in pursuance of the mandates of
this, would equally bar an attempt by'bill of review to inquire
into errors which be on the record, but which were not noticed
by this court..

...
The

decree rendered by the Circuit

Court conformed to the opinion of this court. All attempts,
therefore, to reach "any error apparent upon the face of the
record, prior to the decision of this court, came too late." See,
also, United States v. Jintght's Adminmstrator, 1 Black, 488,
489, Kimberly v. Arms, 40 Fed. Rep. 548, Story's Eq. P1.
§ 408, Cleveland v. Quilty, 128 Mass. 578, 579, fcCall v
Graham, 1 Hen. & Munf. 12, 13, Campbell v. Prwe, 3 Munf.
227, 228, Campbell v. Campbell, 22 Grattan, 649, 674, Jewett
v Drmager, 31 N. J Eq. 586, 590, Rice v. Carey, 4 Georgia,
558, 570, W atTzns v. Lawton, 69 Georgia, 674, 675, R yerson
v. Eldred, 18 Michigan, 490, 2 Barb. Ch. Pr. 2d rev ed. 92.
It has been suggested that the rule is different in the case
of infants, and that the right of the infant Kingsbury to file
an original bill to set aside the decree of November 13, 1871,
for errors apparent on the record, was not affected by the fact
that such decree was entered pursuant to the mandate of the
Supreme Court of Illinois. In this view we do not concur.
By the practice in chancery in Illinois, a decree against an
infant is absolute in the first instance, and no day is given to

KINGSBURY v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

show cause after he becomes of age, and instead thereof the
infant Kingsbury had five years after reaching full age within
which to prosecute an appeal from the decree of December 31,
1870, dismissing his bill in the original suit. Rev Stats.
Illinois, 1845, p. 421, § 53, Rev Stats. Illinois, 1874, p. 785,
Enos v Caps,15 Illinois, 277, Barnes v. Hazleton, 50 Illinois,
429, 432; Iladhams v. Gay, 73 Illinois, 424, Hess v Foss, 52
Illinois, 472, Lloyd v Kirwood, 112 Illinois, 337. But
action, in his behalf, need not have been deferred for so long
a time. It was competent for him, during his minority, by
his prochen amy, to carry that decree to the highest"court of
the State for re~xammation, or file in the court rendering it
an original bill to have it set aside for error apparent on the
record. In X'cClay v. Morts, 4 Gilman, 370, 383, the court,
after observing that whatever may have been the practice
elsewhere the right of an infant to prosecute a writ of error
was not to be doubted in Illinois, said "If an infant sues out
a writ of error, and a decree in this court is passed, against
him, such decree would bb conclusive as well against him as
it would have been had he attained full age, both under the
provisions of the statute before recited and upon the principle
that he is a plaintiff in error, and, as 'such, concluded by the
judgment or decree." And in Euchenbesser v Beceert, 41
Illinois, 172, 176, 177, it was said "It was urged that the
trial was had and the decree executed and carried into effect
so long since that it should not now be disturbed. This
would be unquestionably true, had the parties all been adults
when the decree was rendered, or had the period elapsed
which bars .a writ of error after the minor becomes of age.
But under our practice a minor defendant to a bill is entitled
to his day in court, whether it is expressly reserved by the
decree or not, and he may at any time during his minority,
by his next friend or guardian, file an original bill to impeach
a decree against him." Lloyd v Malone, 23 Illinois, 43, Lloyd
v Xirkwood, u4 supra, Richmond v Tayleur, 1 P Wms.
734,. Chambers on the Property of Infants, 798. The infant,
'by his proohezn amy, having prosecuted an appeal to the
Supreme Court of Illinois from the original decree rendered
VOL. Cxxxrv-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

m the suit brought by him, and having appeared by guardian
ad litem to the appeal of Buckner and wife, is as much bound
by. the action of that court, in respect to mere &(rprsof law
not involving jurisdiction, as if he had been an adult when
the appeal was taken. In Gregory v Afolesworth, 3 Atk. 626,
Lord llardwicke said that "it is right to follow the rule of
law, whiere it is held an iiifant is as much bound by a judgment in his own action, as if of full age, and this is general,
unless gross laches, or" fraud and colIRsion appear in the
p'ocI'ein amy; then the infant -might open it by a new bill."
So in Lord Brook v Lord'Hertford, 2 P Wms. 518, 519
"An infant, when plaintiff, is as much bound and as little
privileged as one of full age." See, also, .Brown v Armtstead,
6 Randolph, 594', Jameson v .Moseky, 4 T. B. Mon. 414,
Hanna v .pofts Hezr., 5 B. Mon. 362.
It results that no inquiry can be made in this case in respect to errors of law apparent on the record, that do not
involve jurisdiction of the original suit brought by the plaintiff
when an infant.
But it is contended that the record shows upon its face a
want of jurisdiction of the person of the infant and of the subject matter at the time the decree of November 13, 1871, was
rendered. In ]fDermzd v. Thssell, 41 Illinois, 489, 491, it
was decided that when notice by publication against infant
non-resident defendants in chancery was nugatory and void,
the appointment of guardians ad litem for them, based upon
such publication, "was also void, for they were not in court,
amenable to any of its orders." To the same effect is Campbell v. Campbell, 63 Illinois, 462, in which the court declared
,the 47th section of tne old chancery statute of Illinois, (Rev
Stats. Illinois, 1845, c. 21,) so far as it authorized a decree
against infant defendants, without service of process on them,
to be unconstitutional. In Chambers v Jones, 72 Illinois, 275,
278, where the appearance of an infant defendant was entered
by a guardian ad litem, appointed by the court to defend for
lier, it was said "This did not give the court jurisdiction, and
hence the whole proceedings were coram non. judice. It is
very -clear no title passed to Jones by his purchase under the

KINGSBURY v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

decree. The decree and sale were absolutely null and void,
and could be attacked directly or collaterally by the heirs
owning the fee. The court had no jurisdiction.to pronounce a
decree that would affect their interests, having no jurisdiction
of their persons by service of process or otherwise." Upon the
authority of these cases it is insisted that, as there was no service of process, actual or constructive, upon the infant Kingsbury, in the cross-suit of Buckner and wife, he was not in court
in respect to the matters of that cross-suit, and, consequently,
the decree against-him on the cross-bill was void, .and that if
he could not be brought into the court of original jurisdiction
on the cross-bill merely by the appearance of his guardian ad
litem, he was not before the Supreme Court of Illinois upon
the appeal prosecuted in his name. The defendants insist,
upon the authority of cases in this court, that no question can
be raised as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Cook
County to pass the decree entered in conformity with the
mandateof.the Supreme Court of the State. .. Siller 's.Eecutors v. May
ys Eeecutors, 6 Cranch, 267, 3fcCormsek v. &uZZiVant, 10 Wheat. 192, EyarteStory, 12 Pet. 339, Washzngton
Bmdge Co. v. Stewart, 3 How 413- Ves
D Moms Zav. -Co. v.
Iowa Romestead Co., 123 U. S.552, 557. But those -were not
cases in which the party against whom a decree was rendered
was not before the court. They do not sustain the proposition
that a decree, entered in pursuance of the mandate of an appellate court, but which is void by reason of the party not
being before that court, or before the court of original jurisdiction, may not be attacked by an original bill. It is, therefore,
necessary to inquire whether the Circuit Court of Cook County
had jurisdiction of the infant Kingsbury upon the cross-bill
filed by Buckner and wife.
In respect to the plaintiff's contention that he could not
have been brought into court as a defendant in the cross-suit,
except by.summons or pubiication upon the cross-bill, it may
be said that in -Balancev. Underhill, 3 Scammon, 453, 461,
decided in 1842, it was held that the defendant in a cross-suit
must be brought into rourt in the same manner as he. would
be in any other case. But in Fleece v RusselZ, 13 Illinois, 31,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmion of the Court.

32, the court, referring to the provisions of the Revised Stat.
utes of 1845, c. 21, §§ 24 to 30 inclusive, relating to crossbills, said "Under these provisions of the statute, which have
been passed since the decision in the case of Ballance v.
Underhill, 3 Scammon, 453, no process is necessary to bring
in the parties to the original bill, but the cross-bill is to be
i;egardedas an adjunct or part of the original suit, and the
whole together as constituting but one case." The same principle was announced in Reed v Zemp, 16 Illinbis, 445, 448.
We are not referred to any case holding this principle to be
inapplicable in the case of an infant complainant in an original suit, who is a defendant in a cross-bill. He is in court, by
his original bill, and process is not required upon a cross-bill
against him in the same suit. See also 1 Starr & Curtis,
Anno. Stat. 407, 408, §§ 30 to 35 inclusive, Public Laws Illinois, 1871-2,.p. 329.
-But it is said that the subject matter of the original bill was
simply the claim alleged to be asserted, in hostility to the
plaintiff, under the will of his father, and that Mrs. Buckner's
claim that the property conveyed by the deed of May 15,
1861, was* held in trust for her, could not properly be made
the subject of a cross-suit, that the jurisdiction, if any, acqmred over the infant by the filing of the original bill did not
extend to the new matter thus introduced by the cross-bill,
and that, therefore, he was not before tile court as to such
new matter, by the appearance in his behalf of a guardian ad
litem, without previous service of process, actual or constructive. This view cannot be sustained, for it is clear that the
matter in respect to which the plaintiffs in the cross-bill sought
relief was embraced by the original bill. The original bill
asserted ownership by appellant, subject to certain incumbrances and rights of dower, of the entire real estate standing
in his father's name at the time of his death, including that
which Buckner and wife conveyed by the deed of May 15,
1861. It made distinct reference to that deed as the source of
his father's title to the property here in question, and, therefore, as the foundation of his own claim, and the relief asked
was not restricted to a decree simply declaring the alleged

KINGSBURY v. BUCKNTER.
Opinion of the Court.

will of 1862 to be invalid. But a decree was sought by which
his right and title to the property claimed to be held in trust
for Mrs. Buckner by her'brother should be confirmed and
established, and all the defendants, including her, perpetually
enjoined from intermeddling with it, or with its rents, issues,
or profits. The subject matter of the original bill,.so, far as
she was concerned, was the title and ownership of the property
conveyed by the deed of May 15, 1861. The plaintiff claimed
title under that deed, and by inheritance from Ins father.
Mrs. Buckner claimed it under the same deed, but she averred
that it was a trust deed. The allegations of the cross-bill
related to that property, and, in answer to the plamtiff's demand that his title to it be confirmed, she demanded that the
trust created by the deed of 1861 be declared, and her ownership established as against the plaifitiff. It is true that the
cross-bill alleged additional facts, but its subject matter was
not the less, for that reason, germane to that of the original
bill. Story's Eq. Pl. % 389, 392, 2 Daniell's Ch. 1Vr. 1548,
Underhill v 'Fan Cortlandt, 2 Johns. Ch. 339, 355, Hurd v.
Case, 32 Illinois, 45, 49.
In Jones v Smith, 14 Illinois, 229, 230, 231, 232, the relief
sought was a decree establishing the plaintiffs title to certaui
real estate purchased at an execution sale under various judgments, and which had been conveyed by the .judgment debtor
to his daughter. The debtor defended upon the ground that
the judgments were fraudulently obtained, and -that of such
fraud the purchaser was cognizant when they were rendered.
He filed a cross-bill to have the sales set aside, and satisfaction
of the judgments entered. Upon the question whether a crossbill was proper in such a case, the court said "A cross-bill is
proper whenever the defendants, or any or either of them,
have equities arising out of the subject matter of the original
suit, which entitle them to affirmative relief, which they cannot obtain in that suit. No fitter case could be.,magined for
a cross-bill than the one which is.presented by these pleadings.
No doubt, upon his answer, he [the defendant] was
at liberty to prove the facts averred,, but this would only
defeat Smith's [the plaintiff's] claim to relies, while the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

facts, if established upon a cross-bill, would entitle hun to
have satisfaction of the judgments actually entered, without
this he might be put to the necessity of proving them repeatedly" In Ltoyd v. Zirkwood, 112 Illinois, 329, 336, in
which the relief sought was a decree of partition, it was said
that if the defendant, as matter of law, wag entitled to have
\the decree upon wlich the plaintiffs based their right to partition set aside, on a bill for that purpose, such right was an
appropriate matter for a cross-bill to an original bill filed to
enforce such partition. So, in the case before us, while Mrs.
Buckner might, perhaps, have defeated the plaintiff's suit by
proving, under her answer, the facts set out in the cross-bill, it
was competent for her in the same suit, to obtain such affirmative relief as was appropriate under proof that her brother did
not become the absolute owner of the property by the conveyance of 1861, but was invested with the title in trust for her.
It results that it was not essential to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court of Cook County that there should have been
service of process, actual or constructive, upon the cross-bill
of Buckner and wife against the infant.
The jurisdiction of that court to entertain the original suit
instituted July 18, 1870, is questioned upon the ground that it
was commenced without authority of the infant, and because
no bond for costs was filed by the guardian ad litem. This
position is supposed to be justified by the following provisions
of the Revised Statutes of Illinois "Suits in chancery may be
commenced and prosecuted by infants, either by guardian or next
friend." Rev Stats. Illinois, 1845, c. 21, § 4, Title, Chancery
"Minors may bring suits in *all cases whatever, by any person
that they may select as their next friend, and the person so
selected shall file bond with the clerk of the Circuit Court, or
justice of the peace "before whom the suit may be brought,
acknowledging himself bound for all the costs that may accrue
and legally devolve upon such minor. And after bond shall
have been so filed, said suit shall progress to final judgment and
execution, as in other cases." Rev Stats. Illinois, 1845, c. 47,
§ 13, Title, Guardian and Ward. Surely, these provisions are
not to be interpreted to mean that no suit in the name of an

KINGSBURY v. BUOKNER.
Opinion of the -Court.

infant, by next friend, can be entertained, unless such next
friend is selected by the infant. Such a.construction is inadmissible. It would prevent a suit being brought by next
friend, where the infant was so young as to be incapable of
making a selection of a person to represent him. The section,
first above quoted, is only a recognition of the general rule
that "1the court, in favor of infants, will permit any person
to institute suits in their behalf," exercising, however, a "1very
large discretion on the one hald, in order to facilitate the
proper exercise of the right which is given to all persons to
file a bill on behalf of infants, and on the other, to prevent
any abuse of that right and any wanton expense to the prejudice of infants." 1 Daniell's Oh. Pr. 69, 71, Starten v.
Bartholomw, 6 Beavan, 143, 144, Macpherson on the Law
of Infants, 364, Chambers on the Property of Infants, 757.
In any view, the right to bring the suit does not depend upon
the execution of a bond for costs, although, according to the
letter of the statute, the next friend may be required to give
such a bond before the suit proceeds to final judgment and
execution. It is, also, said that there is nothing to show
that Beckwith had any authority to sue as next friend, except that in his affidavit to the original bill he states that he
is the next friend of the infant. It was not necessary to the
jurisdiction of the court that he should e-.hibit with the bill
evidence of special authority to bring it as next friend. 'It
was in the power of the court, under whose eye he acted,
at any time to inquire into his fitness to represent the interests of the infant, to remove him if he was a mere intermeddler, and to allow some one else to be substituted in his
place. All- the circumstances show that his institution of the
original suit as next friend was with the knowledge and
assent of the infant's mother and guardian. It is impossible
to believe that he moved in the matter without the approval
of those nearest to the infant. There is no ground to say
that he proceeded without authority
There is still another question of jurisdiction to be considered. By the constitution of Illinois "appeals and writs of
error may be taken to the Supreme Court held in the Grand

OCTOBER. TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Courft.

Division in which the case is decided, or, by consent of the
parties, to any other Grand Division." Illinois Constitution of
-1870, Art. 6, §§ 2, 5, 8. The county of Cook is in the Northern Grand Division, and, unless the parties consent, cases from
that county, which may be taken to the Supreme Court, must
go to the court sitting in that Grand Division. The record
discloses the fact that upon the entry, in the Circuit Court of
Cook County, of the decree of December, 1870, dismissing
both the original and cross-bills without prejudice, an order
was made showing that the plaintiff by his next friend, Beckwith, prayed and was allowed an appeal to the Supreme Court,
a bond, upon his part, being waived by the other parties, that
the plaintiffs m the cross-bill prayed and were allowed an appeal, a bond on their part being waived, and that the parties,
in open court, agreed that "such appeals may be prosecuted to
and the record filed in tho Central Grand Division at the next
term, and that one record may be used for both appeals."
Now it is contended that the .Supreme Court of the State,
sitting in the Central -Grand Division, could .not, except by
consent, entertain jurisdiction of those appeals, and that the
next friend and guardian ad litemn was incapable, in law, of
giving such consent. It is undoubtedly the rule in Illinois, as
elsewhere, that a next friend or guardian ad litm cannot, by
admissions or stipulations, surrender the rights of the infant.
The court, whose duty it is to protect the interests of the infant,
should see to it that they are not bargained away by those
assuming, or appointed, to represent him. But this rule does
not prevent a guardian ad liem or prochezn amy from assenting to such arrangements as will facilitate the determination
of the case in which the rights of the infant are involved.
There is but one Supreme Court of Illinois, although for the
convenience of litigants it sits in different places in that State,
and, unless the consent of parties is given, can take cognizance, when holding its session in a particular Grand Division,,
only of cases arising in such division. But it is the same court
that sits in the respective divisions; 4id a consent by the next
friend or guardian ad litem that a cas6 be heard in a particular
division, could not possibly prejudice the substantial rights of

KINGSBURY v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

the infant. It is true that the consent of the plaintiff's next
friend and guardian ad litem, that the case should go to the
Central Grand Division, brought it to a more speedy hearing
than it would otherwise have had, if such consent had not
been given. But, certainly, it was not to the interest of the
plaintiff that the final determination of his case should be dev .MoKethe, 5
layed. The cases cited by counsel -Owens
Gilman, 79, Gofortk v. Adams, 11 Illinois, .52, and People v.
Supersorsof Vermilion County, 40 Illinois, 125 -do not establish any different principle. They decide nothing more than
that, in the absence of coDsent, the Supreme Court, sitting in
one Grand Division, cannot take cognizance of a case from
another Grand Division.
It is further contended that the Supreme Court of Illinois
could not entertain the appeal from the decree dismissing the
cross-bill of Buckner and wife without an appeal bond being
executed by them, and that it was not competent for Beckwith
to waive the giving of such bond. In support of this position
counsel cite Chwago, Pekzn &c. Railroadv Trustees of -Marseilles, 104 Illinois, 91, and Lews v. Shear, 93 Illinois, 121. In
'the first of those cases the party appealing had not filed a transcript of the record in the Supreme Court within the required
time, nor taken any steps whatever to bring the case before
the court for consideration. A motion to dismiss the appeal
having been made, it was held that a mere waiver by the appellee of an appeal bond did not operate to perfect the appeal
for any purpose. The court said. "There is no appeal here
for us to act upon -nothing to dismiss. The case will be
stricken from the docket." In the other case cited, which was
an action of replevin, the question was whether the record
showed the requisite amount involved to give the Supreme
Cburt jurisdiction. As it did not, the appeal was dismissed,
the court observing that it could not take jurisdiction of a
case from the Appellate Court unless the record showed, in
some manner, that it was one of which it could take cognizance. Neither case is an authority for the proposition that
an appeal bond is essential to.the jlrsdictioa of the Supreme
Court of the State where the appeal isallowed and a tran-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

script of the record is filed in due time. A mere failure to
execute the bond within due time may be ground for dismissing an appeal, but does not deprive the court of the right to
proceed to a determination of the appeal. So here, the waiver
by the infant'sguardian ad Zitem and next friend of a bond by
Buckner and wife upon their appeal - the latter having waived
an appeal bond on his part -did not affect the jurisdiction of
the court. And such is the rule of practice in the Supreme
Court of the United States. Edmonson 4 Bloomskzre, 7 Wall.
306, 311, ?w]eardson v Green, 130 U. S. 104, 114, Evans v
State Bank, ante, 330. The cases cited by counsel from the
latter court do not announce any different rule.
We come to consider whether the record discloses any ground
for holding that the decree of November 13, 1871, was obtained
by fraud, as distinguished from mere error, or by collusion
with the guardian ad litem. In considering this question we
have not overlooked the fact that there were replications in the
present suit to both the plea and the answer of Buckner and
wife, although the final decree below inadvertently states that
no replication to the answer was filed. The general contention,
in behalf of the plaintiff, is that the original and cross-bills
were not a genuine case, but were contrived, and the proceedings in the state court were conducted throughout, for the
purpose of depriving an infant of his estate, without bringing
attention to the real merits of his claim to the property in
dispute. Of course, if the record disclosed a case of that
character, the decree complained of would not constitute an
obstacle in the way of giving relief to the plaintiff. What are
the grounds upon which the charge of fraud and collusion is
based 2
It may be observed that no claim is made of newly discovered
evidence, and that all the facts now relied upon to show fraud
and collusion were disclosed by the record before the Supreme
Court of the State, upon the first. appeal,'when the merits of
-Mrs. Buckner's claim to the property were examined. No
effort has been made to prove any state of case different from
that disclosed in the original and- cross-suit. The issue as to
fraud must be determined entirely by the record of the pro-

KINGSBURY v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

ceedings in the state court, and by such inferences as may
be justly drawn/tferefrom, for no evidence, apart from that
record, was introduced.
It is said that the attention of the court was not specially
called to the various points now made against the theory of
a trust advanced in behalf of Mrs. Buckner. That fact, if
established, would not necessarily, show fraud or collusion.
But it does not appear what points were made in argument
upon the first appeal to the Supreme Court of the State. Certainly, the errors assigned by the next friend in behalf of the
infant were broad enough to cover every objection now raised
against the right of Mrs. Buckner to the property Those errors
were, the dismissal of the original bill, the refusal to grant the
relief asked by the plaintiff, and the admission of incompetent
evidence against him. Under such an assignment of errors, it
was competent for the proc ern amy to,contend, as one of the
plaintiff's counsel insists he should have contended, that "the
object of making the deed of May 15, 1861, was to leave the
Buckners free to take sides in the civil war against the United
States without jeopardizing this large estate in the city of
Chicago ;" and that a party making a deed for such a purpose,
was in. no better. position, in a court of equity, than one who
makes a deed to defraud his creditors. For aught appearing
in the record, this view was pressed upon the Supreme Court
of the State. The absence from the opinion of that court of
any reference to it, does not prove that the guardian ad litem
and next friend failed to make the point, or that he purposely
avoided allusion to it. If, in considering so grave a charge as
that of fraud, we should indulge in conjecture as to what controlled the mind of the state court, the inference might be
fairly drawn that, as this point arose out of the evidence, it
was passed without notice, because the court regarded it as not
sustained by the proof, or as one that ought not to control the
decision of the case.
The depositions of Simon B. Buckner and Jane C. Kingsbury were taken m the suit brought by the infant in 1870,
upon interrogatories by the -plaintiffs in the cross-suit, and
cross-interrogatories by Mr. Lawrence. It is contended that

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

these persons were incompetent, by the laws of Illinois, to
testify in support of the cross-bill, and that the guardian ad
litem failed to object upon that ground to their depositions.
This charge of collusion fails altogether if they were not
incompetent as witnesses. By the first section of a statute of
Illinois, passed February 19, 1867, and which was in force
when their depositions were taken, it was provided that "no
person shall be disqualified as a witness in any civil action,
suit or proceeding," except in certain specified cases, "by
reason of his or her interest in the event thereof, as a party
or otherwise, or by reason of his or her conviction of any
crime, but such interest or conviction may be shown for the
purpose of affecting the credibility of such Witness." The
second section provides that "no party to any civil action,
suit or proceeding, or person directly interested in the event
thereof, shall be allowed to testify therein, of his own motion,
or in his own behalf, -by virtue of the foregoing section, when
any adverse party sues or ddfends as
heir
of any deceased person,
unless when called as a
witness by such adverse -party so suing or defending," except
in certain cases that have no application here. The fifth
section of the same act provides that "no. husband or wife
shall, by virtue of section one of this act, be rendered comVetent to testify for or against each other
except in
cases where the wife would, if unmarried, be plaintiff or
defendant,
and except, also, in cases where the litigation shall be concerning the separate property of the wife,
in all which cases the husbnd and wife may testify
for or against each other, in the same manner as other parties
may under the provisions of this act." Pub. Laws Illinois,
1867, p. 183.
It is clear from these -statutory provisions that Buckner
was not incompetent, by reason of his relation of husband, to
testify in support of his wife's claim to the property, because
if Mrs. Buckner had been unmarried she would have been a
defendant in the original suit, and the plaintiff in the crosS-suit,
and also, because that suit concerned her separate property
In the cross-bill he joined with his wife in asking that the

KINGSBURY v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

trust intended to be created by the deed of 1861 be enforced,
aind gave Is assent to any decree that would place the property under her sole control and preserve it for her benefit.
Tins was regarded by the Supreme Court of the State as a
renunciation by him of even a life estate, and the decree of
1871 proceeded upon that ground. Nor was he incompetent
by reason of the inhibition contained in the second section of
the act, because, although a formal party to the cross-suit, he
was not directly interested in the event thereof, and was not,
in the sense, of the statute, a party adverse to the heir of his
deceased brother-n-law The only party adverse to the heir, in
respect to the issues made by the cross-suit, was Mrs. Buckner.
She could not have testified on her own motion, or in her own
behalf, unless called by the opposite party But, looking at
the policy and language of those enactments, we perceive no
reason why Buckner was not competent as a witness, in
support of his wife's suit, under the first section of the act.
We are, also, of opimoll that Mrs. Kingsbury was a competent
witness. She bad no interest adverse either to appellant or to
Mrs. Buckner. Her interest in the property was recognized
by all the parties. No decree could have affected her rights.
The fact that she was a party to the suit did not, of itself,
disqualify her as a witness.
There are other facts in connection with the depositions of
Buckner and Mrs. Ki4gsbury, which are relied upon to establish the charge of fraud and collusion upon the part of the
guardian ad tern. They are these He was not appointed
guardian ad litem in the cross-suit until November 25, 1870,
and.yet he appears from the record to have assumed the position of guardian ad litem before that date, by assenting in
writing, under date of November 22, 1870,. that a dedimus
potestatem ight be sued out, on the 30th of November, to
take the deposition of Buckner, thereby waiving the benefit of
a notice of ten days given by the statute in such cases, and he
failed to file cross-interrogatories to Buckner and Mrs. Kingsbury These facts contain nothing of substance, when taken
in connection with other circumstances. It may be that he
did not, in fact, sign the above writing until after his appoint-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

ment as guardian ad litm, and that he signed it without observing its date. Be that as it may, five days intervened
between his appointment as guardian ad litem and the time
named for suing out the commission to take Buckner's deposition. The statutory provision requiring ten days' notice for
the suing out of a commission to take depositions is one for
the benefit of the party against whom the depositions are to
be read, and might be waived. The waiver of full notice, in
respect to Buckner's deposition, was first signed by the attorney
of Lawrence and wife, the latter being the mother and guardian of the infant. It was equally competent for the guardian
ad litern orinext friend to join in the waiver, unless it be assumed, as we are unwilling to do, that his fidelity is to be
measured by his capacity and willingness to delay litigation,
when there is nothing to be thereby accomplished. Nor is
fraud and collusion to be imputed to Beckwith because he did
not, after his appointment by the court, file cross-interrogatories to Buckner and Mrs. Kingsbury Cross-interrogatories
were filed by his partner in behalf of Mrs. Lawrence, and were
of the most searching character. They were prefaced with
formal objections, upon the ground of immateriality and incompetency, to more than twenty of the interrogatories relating to the deed of May 15, 1861, to the circumstances under
which it was executed, and to the alleged trust in favor of
Mrs. Buckner. .And, at the hearing, objections were -made to
the competency of the evidence contained in the depositions
for the cross-plaintiffs, but the depositions were received subject to all legal objections upon the ground of sofficiency, competency and relevancy There is no suggestion that the crossintertogatories which were filed did not cover the whole
ground of dispute between -the parties. It would have served
no good purpose for the-guardian ad liten to repeat them on
behalf of the infaut,for Mrs.. Buckner was bound to support
her claim by ?roof, and without filing cross-interrogatories
the infant was entitled to avail himself of every fact to his advantage brought out by the cross-interrogatories upon the part
of his mother.
Another badge of fraud is supposed to be found in the fadt

JINGSBURY v. BUCKNER.
Opmion .of tle Court.

-

that the decree dismissing the bill and cross-bill, without prejudice, was, m fact, rendered December 31, 1870, and yet was
entered as of December 24, 1870, without objection from the
guardian ad litem. We assume that the object of all this was
to enable the parties to get the case before the Supreme Court
at its session commencing in January,. 1871, and have it there
determined at an early day There is nothing in all this to
show fraud or collusion. Of course, the guardian ad litem,
by technical objections, could have postponed the hearing of
the case in that court until September, 1871, but there is
no circumstance disclosed by the record tending in any
degree to show that the infant would have profited by such
delay
But it is said that the failure of the guardian ad litem to
apply for a rehearing of the original appeal is evidence of bad
faith upon his part. We cannot assent to any such view of his
duty The opinion of the state court shows that the, legal
questions presented by the appeal were carefully considered,
and there is no ground to suppose that its conclusion. would
have been modified if a rehearing had been granted. Be this
as it may, we cannot agree thar, the mere failure of the guar;dian ad litem and next friend to apply for a rehearing raised
any presumption of infidelity to his trust.
Some stress is laid upon the fact that Beckwith met this
suit by demurrers to the bill, and did not file an answer.
This does not show fraud or collusion. There was no need.
of making him a defendant. No relief was prayed against
him. He was--neither a necessary nor prqper party to the
relief asked. If he preferred to terminate the suit as to
himself by a demurrer, it was his privilege to pursue -that
course.
In respect to the charge that the case was presented te the
Supreme Court of the State upon afalsified or changed record,
it is only necessary to say that there is no foundation for it in
the record before us.
Without noticing other matters discussed by counsel, which
we do not deem of importance, we are of opinion that the
plaintiff has failed to show that the decree of November 13.

