OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

of the act of 1869 have been repealed and abrogated, and
that, as set forth in the answer, the auditor has no longer,
under the state laws, any power to execute them. The contention of the relators is, that the repealing acts, and all acts
abrogating the provision made by the act of 1869 in favor of
the bondholders, are unconstitutional and void, as impairing
the obligation of the contract. Conceding this to be true, the
objection still remains that this is virtually a suit against the
State. The auditor is. sued in his official capacity, and it is
sought to compel him to act in that capacity in order to raise
the tax in question, contrary to subsequent legislation and the
present laws of the State. The case is clearly within the principle of the decisions in Loumstana v Jumel, 107 U S. 711,
Cunn?.ngharm v Xacon & Brunswwk Riailroad Co., 109 U. S.
446, Hagood v Southern, 117 U S. 52, In. re Ayers, 123 U. S.
443, and JiV7rth Carolinav Temple, just decided, ante, 22.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is
Aff mred.
MR . JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

BELL'S

GAP RAILROAD COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA.

ERROR TO THE SUPRiiEME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 1497. Submitted January 27, 1890.-

Decided March 3, 1890.

The plaintiff in error failed to make a return of its loans to the state authorities as requiied by law, whereupon the auditor general, under direction of state law, made out an account against it containing the following
charge. "Nominal value of scrip, bonds and certificates of indebtedness
held by residents of Pennsylvania, $539,000 - tax three mills - $1617.00.'1
The company appealed from this to the Court of Common Pleas, which
decided in its favor, and the Commonwealth from thence to the Supreme
Court of the State, which rendered a judgment in favor of the Commonwealth for $666. Among the grounds for the appeal was, that the tax
was in violation of section one of the Fourteenth Amendment, because
the assessment was for the nominal value, and not for the real value of

BELL'S GAP R'ID CO. v. PENbTSYLVANIA.
Opinion of' the Court.
the bonds; because the owners of the bonds had no notice, and no opportunity to be heard; because the company was taxed for property that
it did not own, and because the deduction of the tax from.the interest
due the bondholders in Pennsylvania took their property without due
process of law, and denied to them the equal protection of the laws.
The case being brought to this court from the state court by writ of
error, a motion was made to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, to winch
was united a motion to affirm; Held,
(1) That there was clearly a federal question raised, and the writ could
not be dismissed for want of jurisdiction,
(2) That although it was doubtful whether, under the rules, there was
sufficient color fdr the motion to dismiss to justify the court in
considering the motion to affirm, yet, as the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania, in its opinion did not seem to have expressly passed
upon the federal question, which was clearly in the record, the
court could consider that there was color for making that motion,
(3) That the provision for the assessment of the tax upon the nominal
or face value of the bonds, instead of upon their actual value, was
a part of the state system of taxation, authorized by its constitution and laws, and violated no provision of the Constitution of
the United States,
(4) That the failure to give personal notice to the owners of the bonds
involved no violation of due process of law, when executed according to customary forms and established usages, or in subordination to the principles which underlie them;
(5) That it was not true, in point of fact, that.the corporation was taxed
for property which it did not own.
The Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to compel the States to adopt
an iron rule of equal taxation.

MoTows: (1) To revoke the allocatur and quash the writ of
error, (2) To dismiss for want of' urisdiction, (3) To affirm
the judgment below The case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr William . Eir patrwk, Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and Mr John F Sanderson,Deputy Attorney General for the motions.
.,r

James TV -.. Newlin opposing.

IR. JusTIeo. BnADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Motion is made in this case to revoke the allocatur of the
writ of error, and to quash the writ, aud, in the alternative,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
-Opmlon of the Couft.

to affirm the judgment. The first motion is based on the
assumption that the writ was improperly allowed by the
judge, and questions the propriety of his action. It is probable that the counsel who makes the motion does not intend it
in that sense, but is merely unfamiliar with the practice of this
court, by which the ordinary proceeding to vacate a writ of
error is a motion to dismiss it.
In the present case we think that the writ was demandable,
and cannot be dismissed, as will more fully appear from the
following statement
By the law of Pennsylvania all moneyed securities are sublect to an annual state tax of three mills on the dollar of their
actual value, except bonds and other securities issued by corporations, which are taxed at three mills on the dollar of the
nominal or par value. If the treasurer 6f a corporation fails
to make return of its loans, as required by law, the auditor
general makes out and files an account against the company
charging it with the tax supposed to be due. This account, if
approved by the state treasurer, is served upon the corporation, which must pay the tax within a specified time, or show
good cause to the aontrary If it objects to the tax, it is
authorized, in common with all others who are dissatisfied
.with the auditor's stated accounts, to appeal to the Court of
Common Pleas of the county where the seat of government
is (at present Dauphin County), which appeal is served on
the auditor general, and by him transmitted to the clerk of
said court, to be entered .of record, subject to like proceedings as in common suits. A declaration is then filed on the
stated account in behalf of the State, and the cause is regularly
tried.
In the present case, on failure of the company (The Bell's
Gap Railroad Company) to make return except under protest,
the auditor general made out an account against it containing the following charge.
"Nominal value of scrip, bonds, and certificates of
indebtedness owned by residents of Pennsylvania $539,000-tax three mills
$1617 00'

BELL'S GAP W'D CO. v. PENISYLVATA.
Opinion of the Court.

The company thereupon tendered an appeal, which was
filed in the Court of Common Pleas of Dauphin County, a
declaration was filed on the part of the State, and the cause
was tried by the court, a jury being waived.
The appeal filed by the corporation (which wag the basis of
the proceedings m the court) contained eight grounds, of objection to the tax. Most of these objections were founded upon
the constitution, or laws of Pennsylvania, and need not be
noticed here. The second objection, which refers to .the Constitution of the United States, was as follows, to wit
"II. The report of the company's treasurer was made under
protest and does not constitute an assessment, and the tax
sought to be imposed on so much of the company's loans as
the Commonwealth claims to be held by residents of Pennsylvania for their nominal or face value, which varies from the
market value on account. of the differing rates of interest, etc.,
is illegal, and the said tax cannot be lawfully deducted by the
company's treasurer from the interest payable to the holders
of said loans, and the Commonwealth's demands contravene
section one of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States, for the following reasons "
Amongst the reasons then assigned are
1. That the nominal value of the bonds is not their real
value,
2. That the owners of the bonds have no notice, and no
opportunity of being heard,
3. That the company is taxed for property it does not own,
4. That the deduction of the tax from the interest payable
to .the bondholders is taking their property without due process of law, and denies to them the equal protection of the
laws, since all other personal property in the State is taxed at
its actual .value, and upon notice to the owners.
The seventh objection is as follows "YII. The tax is void
as impairing the company's obligation to its creditors."
On the trial of the cause the State offered in evidence the
stated account, and the plaintiff in error offered the appeal
and specificatibn of objections and an afdavit of its treasurer.
The Court of Common Pleas decided in favor of the company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

but its decision was reversed -l writ of error by the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania, and judgment was rendered in favor
of the Commonwealth for $666, being-the amount of tax on
bonds shown to have been owned by residents of Pennsylvama.
It cannot be denied.that the plaintiff in error, in its appeal
and specification of objections to the tax, did raise a question
under the Constitution of the United States. That question
remained in the record as the foundation of the proceedings in
the court, and, whether adverted to, or not, was necessarily
involved in the final decision of the case. We think it clear,
therefore, tlaat the writ of error cannot be dismissed. Our
only doubt is, whether, under our rules, there was sufficient
color for the motion to dismiss, to justify us in considering the
motion to affirm. As, however, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in its opinion, does not seem to have expressly passed
upon the federal question, although it was clearly in the
record, we may consider that there was color for making the
motion to dismiss.
On the merits we have no serious doubt.
1. As to the assessrment of the tax of three mills vpon, the
nom'inal orface value of the bonds, ?tnstead of assessmg st.upon
the actual value. This might have been subject to question
under the state laws, but the state courts have upheld the
assessment as valid. We are to accept it, therefore, -as part
of the state system of taxation, authorized by its constitution
and laws. Then, how does it violate any provision of the
It is contended that it
Constitution of the United States2
violates the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment, which
forbids a State to withhold from any person the equal protection of the laws. We do not perceive that the assessment in
question transgresses this -provision. There is no unjust discrimmation against any persons or corporations. The presumption is that corporate securities are worth thei- face
value. Besides, the person that holds them is not affected by
the tax unless he receives his interest from which the tax is
deducted. So long as the interest is paid the security has to
him full productive value, when it is not paid he pays no tax.

BELL'S GAP R'D CO. v. PETNSYLVANIA.
Opinon -of the Court.

But, be this as it may, the law does not ma] .e any discrimination in this regard which the State is not competent to make.
All corporate securities are subject to the same regulation.
The provision in the Fourteenth Amendment, that no State
shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws, was not intended.to prevent a State from
adjusting its system of taxation in all proper and reasonable
ways. It may, if it chooses, exempt certain classes of property from any taxation at all, such as churches, libraries and
the property of charitable institutions. It may impose different specific taxes upon different trades and professions, and
may vary the rates of excise- upon various products; it may
tax real estate and personal property in a different manner,
it may tax visible property only, and not tax securities for
payment of money, it may allow.deductions for indebtedness,
or not allow them. All such regulations, and those of like
character, so long as they proceed within reasonable limits
and general usage, are within the discretion of the state legislature, or the people of the State in framing their Constitution.
But clear and hostile discriminations against particular personsand classes, especially such as are of an unusual pharacter,
unknown to the practice of our governments, might be obnoxious to the constitutional prohibition. It would, howaver,
be impracticable and unwise to attempt to lay down any
general rule or definition on the subject, that would include
all cases. They must be decided as they arise. We think
that we are safe in saying, that the Fourteenth Amendment
was aot intended to compel the State to adopt an iron rule of
equal taxation. If that \were its proper construction, it would
not only supersede all those constitutional provisions and laws
of some of the States, whose object is to secure equality of
taxation, and which are usually accompanied. with guali cations deemed material, but it would render nugat6ry those
discriminations which the best interests of society 'require,
which are necessary for the encouragement of needed and
useful industries. and the discouragement of intemperance and
vice, and which every State, in one form or anothor, deems
it expedient to adopt.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The general purpose and scope of the Fourteenth Amendment, and the general qualifications necessary to be applied to
it, are well stated in Barbzer v Conrnolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31. Mr.
Justice Field, in delivering the opinion of the court, there
said "The Fourteenth Amendment, in declaring that no
State ' shall deprive any person of life, liberty or property
without due process of law, nor deny to any person within
its jurisdiction, the equal protection of the laws,' undoubtedly
intended not only that there should be no arbitrary deprivation of life or liberty or arbitrary spoliation of property,
but that equal protection and security should be given to all
under like -circumstances, in the eiijoyment of their personal
and civil rights, that all persons should be equally entitled
to pursue Their happiness and acquire and enjoy property;
that they should have like access to the courts of the country
for the protection of their persons and property, the prevention and redress of wrongs, and the enforcement of contracts,
that no impediment should be- interposed to the pursuits of
any one, except as applied to the same pursuits by others
under like circumstances, that no greater burdens should be
laid upon one than are laid upon othersin the same calling
and condition, and that m the administration of criminal
justice, no different or higher punishment should be, imposed
upon one than such as is prescribed to all for like offences.
But neither the amendment -broad
and comprehensive as
it is - -nor any other amendment, was designed to interfere
with the power of the State, sometimes termed its police
power, to prescribe regulations to promote the health, peace,
morals, education and good order of the people, and to legisiate so as to increase the industries of the State, develop its
resources and add to its wealth and prosperity"
With due regard to these considerations, we are clearly of
opinion that the method of assessing the tax in question, on
the face value of corporate securities in Pennsylvania, is not
violative of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.
2. As ro wat of notice to the owners of the bon.ds. What
notice could they have which the law does not give them'
They know. that their. bonds are to be assessed at their face

BELL'S GAP R'D C0. v. BENNSYLYANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

value, and that a tax of three mills on the dollar of that value
will be imposed, and that they will only be required to pay
this tax when, and as, they receive the interest. If the State
may assess the tax upon the face value of the bonds, notice
_p
pazs is not necessary We think that .there is nothing ii
this objection which shows any infraction of the Federa.l
Constitution. It is urged that it is a taking of the bondholder's property without due process of law We must
confess that we cannot see it in this light. The process of
taxation does not require the same kind of notice as is required m a suit at law; or even in proceedings for taking
private property under the power of eminent domain. It
involves no violation of due process of law, when it is executed according to customary forms and established usages,
or in subordination to the principles which underlie them.
We see nothing in the process of taxation complained of,
which is obnoxious to constitutional objection on this score.
Stockholders in -the national banks are taxed in this way,
and the method has been sustained by the express decision of
Bank v Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353.
]T
this court. NatonaZ
3. That the corporatton w taxedforproperty &tdoes not own.
This objection is not true in point of fact. The corporation,
as the -debtor of its bondholders, holding money in its hands
for their use, namely, the interest to be paid, is merely required to pay to the Commonwealth out of tins fund the
proper tax due on the. security The tax is on the bondholder,
not on the corporation. This plan is adopted as a matter of
convenience, and as a secure method of collecting the tax.
That is all. It injures no party It certainly does not infringe
the Constitution of the United States by making one party
pay the debts and support the just burdens of another party,
as is implied in the objection.
The other objections are embraced in those which we have
already considered, and need no further notice.
We would say, in conclusion, that there are severaLdecisions
of this court which virtually dispose of most of the questions
involved in the present case. We refer particularly to NattonaZ Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353, .The Dollar

