HAMMOND v. HASTINGS.
Opinion of the Court.

zsh, 132 U. S. 192, Andes v. &lauson,130 U S. 435., Bond v.
-Dustin, 112.U. S. 6041, Lyons v Lyons Bank, 19 Blatohford,
279.
The judgment must be
A/tfmed.

HAMMOND v. HASTINGS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN" DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 200.

Argued March 7, 1890.-Decided March 24, 1890.

When, by general law, a lien is given to a corporation upon the stock of
a stockholder in the corporation for any indebtedness owing by him to
it, that lien is valfd and. enforceable against all the world, and a sale of
the stockholder's stock to a person ignorant of the lien will not discharge it and thus authorize the purchaser to demand and receive a
transfer of it so discharged.

THE case iS stated in the opinion.
Xr A. H. Garland for plaintiff in error. .M )Dan M.
.Deckvnson, .Jf' Willioam H. Swift and _ll> Elisha Ki. Flinn
filed a brief for plaintiff in error.
.Mr Thomas .Mo.Do ugall for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

On July 22, 1884 , George 0. Swee, was the owner of twelve
hundred shares of the capital stock of a corporation organizee
under the laws of the State of Michigan, known as George
H. Hammond & Company, as evidenced by two certificates of
stock (which were alike in everything, except numbers of
shares and dates),. and of one of which, with endorsements,
the following is a copy
VOL. Cxxxv-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

"George H. Hammond & Company
"Capital stock, $1,500,000.
Number 5.

Shares, $25 each.
Shares, 800.

"This is to certify that George 0. Sweet is entitled to
eight hundred shares of $25 each of the capital stock of
George H. Hammond & Company Transferable only on
the books of the company, in person or byrattorney, on the
surrender of this certificate.
"Detroit, Mich., Jan'y 18, 1882.
"GEo. H. HAmmoND, Pres't.
J

CC[SEA.]

_ss D. STA2wIsH,

Seo'y."

Endoesed.
"For value received, - hereby sell, assign, and transfer
unto -

-

shares of the within stock, and do hereby con-

attorney to transfer the same
stitute and appoint on the books of the company
"Witness my hand and seal this- day of C[

,

18L s.] "

A. D.

These certificates had theretofore been pledged to the
National Bank of fllinois, a bank located in the city of
Chicago. On that day, in pursuance, of the pledge, the stock
was sold, and purchased by the defendant in error, Thomas
D. Hastings. During all the time that Sweet owned the
stock he was indebted to the corporation George H. Hammond & Company After his purchase Mr. Hastings presented the certificates to the officers of the corporation, and
demanded a transfer. This was refused, on-the ground that
the corporation had a lien upon the stock for the amount
of Sweet's indebtedness to it. Thereupon this action was
brought.
George H. Hammond & Company was a manufacturing
corporation, created in October, 1881, under the laws of the
State of Michigan, with its principal office in the city of
Detroit, Micbigan, and Sweet was, during the time of these
transactions, a resident of and doing business m the city of

-HAi OND v.

HASTINGS.

Opimon of the Court.

Chicago, selling the property of the corporation on commission.

The law of MNichigan under which manufacturing companies
may be organized, and under which George H. Hammond &
Company was created and exists, has, since 1875, contained
this provision Section 4143, 1 Howell's Annotated Statutes,
section 17 of act 18T., laws 1875 "The stock of every such
corporation shall be deemed personal property, and be transferred only on the books of such corporation, m such form
and manner as their by-laws shall prescribe, and such corpora-tion shall at all times have a lien upon all the stock or property of its members invested therein, for all debts due from
them to such corporation." The general act, 1 Howell, see.
4866, provides, as to all- corporations, that a transfer of stock
shall not be valid except as between the parties, unless entered
on the books of the company, showing the names of the par-"
ties, by and to whom transferred, the number and designation of shares, and the date of the transfer. Thebank was
ignorant of Sweet's indebtedness to the corporation when
it lent its money on the security of the stock, and of course
Hastings, though notified thereof at the tune of the sale, succeeded to all the rights of the bank. On these facts the circuit judge held that the purchaser took the stock discharged
of any lien, and submitted to the jury only the question of the
value of the stock, this having been found by its verdict,
judgment was entered therefor, and the corporation now alleges error. The single question is, whether the corporation
had a lien upon the stock for Sweet's indebtedness, as against
the claims of the bank and the purchaser. This question
must be answered in the affirmative, for the rule is clear and
unquestioned, that where by general law a lien is given to a
corporation upon its stock f6r the indebtedness of the stockholder, it is valid and enforceable against all the world.
Unwn Bank v Laird, 2 Wheat. 390, Brent v Bank of
Washington, 10 Pet. 596, National Bank v Warontoww
Bank, 105 U S. 2111, 221, Rogers v Huntzngdo- Bank,.12
S. & R. 77, Sewall v Lancaster Bank, 1l S. & R. 285,
Presbyterian Congregation v Carlisle Bank, 5 Penn. St. 345;

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the, Court.

348, Farmers' Bank v Iglelart, 6 Gill, 50; Reese v Bank oI
Commerce, 14 Maryland,. 271, Hartford Bank v Hartford
Ins. Co., 45 Connecticut, 22, Bshop v Gloe Gomjany, 135
Mass. 132, Bohmer v City Bank, 77 Virginia, 445.
The Iaw under which this corporation was organized was
a general law So it has been decided by the Supreme Court
of Michigan, _fewberry v Detroit Co., 17 Michigan, 141, 151,
where it is said "The law in question is a public act, and all
are charged with knowledge of its provisions." This construction by the Supreme Court of the State which enacted
the law is conclusive in this court, as well as everywhere, as
to its character. The law in terms provides for a lien, and that
being a public law all are charged with knowledge of its provisions. Generally, wherever paper of a nature similar to this
is issued, under authority granted by general statute, whoever
deals with that paper is charged with notice of all limitations
and burdens attached to it by such statute. And this is true
whether the party lives in or out of the State by which he
law was enacted. See authorities cited, supra. It was unnecessary to enter upon the certificate any statement of the
limitations and burdens which the law casts upon all such
paper, and the omission to state such limitations.upon the face
of the paper is not a waiver by the corporation of the benefits
.thereof.
In the case in 2 Wheat. supra, where the act of incorporation gave a lien, this court, by Mr. Justice Story, said. "The
certificate, issued to Patton for the fifty shares held by him,
(which is in the usual form,) declares the shares to be ' transferable at the said bank, by the sai(' Patton, or his attorney,
on surrendering this certificate.'
No person, therefore, can
acquire a legal -title to any shares, except under a regular
transfer, according to the rules of the bank, and if any person
takes an equitable assignment, it must be subject to the rights
of the bank, under the act of incorporation, of which he is
bound to take notice."
Repeated efforts have been made to have certifteates of
stocli declared negotiable paper, but they have been unsuccessful. .Such a certificate is not negotiable in either form or

