OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME
No. 762.

COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.

Argued January 13, 14, 1890. -Decided

March 24, 1890.

The act of the legislature of Minnesota, approved March 7 1887, General
Laws of 1887 c. 10, establishing a railroad and warehouse commission,
being interpreted by the Supreme Court of that State as providing that
the rates of charges for the transportation of property recommended
and published by the commission shall be final and conclusive as to what
are equal and reasonable charges, and that there can be no judicial inquiry as to the reasonableness of such rates, and a railroad company, in
answer to an application for a mandamus, contending that such rates, in
regard to it, are unreasonable, and not being allowed by the state court
to put in testimony on the question of the reasonableness of such rates;
Held, that the act is in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States, as depriving the company of its property without due process of
law and depriving it of the equal protection of the laws.
The State had made no irrepealable contract with- the company that it
should have the right for all future time to prescribe its rates of toll,
free from all control by the legislature of the State.

Tuis was a writ of error to renew a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State of Minnesota, awarding a writ of
mandamus against the Chicago, Milwaukee ,& St. Paul Railway Company
The case arose on proceedings taken by the. Railroad and
Warehouse Commission of the State of Minnesota, under an
act of the legislature of that State, approved March 7, 1887;
General Laws of 1887, c. 10, entitled "An act to regulate
common carriers, and creating the Railroad and Warehouse
Commission of the State of Minnesota, and defining the duties
of such commission in Telation to common carriers." The act
is set forth in full in the margin.1
I CHAPTER

10.-AN ACT TO REGULATE Co01itoN CARRIERS, AND CREATING

THE RAILROAD AND WAREHOUSE COiLnnISSION OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA, AND DEFINING TEE DUTIES OF SUCH Co missIoN IN RELATION

TO COiMfON CARRIERS.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Minnesota.
SEcTx 1. (a) That the provisions of this act shall apply to any common

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. MIN ESOTA.

419

Statement of the Case.

The ninth section. of that act creates a commission to be
known as the "Railroad and Warehouse Commission of the
carrier or carriers engaged in the transportation of passengers or property
wholly by railroad, or partly by railroad' and partly by water, when both
are used under a common control, management or arrangement, for a carriage or shipment from one place or station to another, both being within
the State of Minnesota.
Provided,That nothing in tins act shall apply to street railways or to the
carriage, storage or handling by any common carrier of property, free, or
at reduced rates for the United States, or for the State of Minnesota, or
for any municipal government or corporation within the State, or for any
charitable purpose, or to or from fairs, and expositions for exhibition
thereat, (or stock for breeding purposes,) or to the issuance of mileage,
excursion or commutation passenger, tickets, at rates made equal 'to all, or
to transportation to stock shippers with cars, and nothing in the provisions
of this act shall be construed to prevent common carriers, subject to the
provisions of this act, from issuing passes for the free transportation of.
passengers.
(b) The term "railroad" as used in this act shall include all bridges or
ferries used or operated in connection with any railroad, and also all the road
in use by any corporation operating a railroad, whether owned or operated
under a contract, agreement or lease; and the term "transportation" shall
include all instrumnentalities of shipment or carriage.
SEC. 2. (a) That all charges made by any common carrier, subject to the
provisions of this act, for any service rendered or to be rendered in the
transportation -of passengers or property as, aforesaid, or in connection
therewith, or for the receiving, delivering, storage or handling of such
property shall be equal and reasonable; and every unqual and unreasonable
charge for such servie is prohibited and declared to be unlawful
Provided, That one car-load of freight of any kind or class shall be transported at as low a rate per ton, and per ton per mile, as any greater number
of car-loads of the same kind and class from and to the same points of
origination or destination.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any common carrier, subject 'td the provisions of this act, to make or give any unequal or unreasonable preference or
advantage to any particular person, company, firm, corporation or locality,
or any particular description of traffic, in any respect whatsoever, or to subjcqt any particular person, company, firm, corporation, or locality, or any
particular description of traffic to any unequal or unreasonable prejudice or
disadvantage in any respedt whatsoever.
SEC. 3. (a) That all common carriers, subject to the provisions of this
act, shall,. according to their respective powers, provide, at the point of
connection, crossing or mtersetioini ample facilities for transferring cars,
and for accommodating and transferring passengers, and traffic of all kinds
and classes, from their lines orltracks, to those' of any other common car-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

State of Minnesota," to consist of three persons to be appointed by the governor by and with the advice and consent
of the senate.
rier whose lines or tracks may connect with,cross or intersect their own,
and shall afford all equal and reasonable facilities for the interchange of
cars and traffic between their respective lines, and for-the receiving, forwarding and delivering of passengers and property and cars to and from
their several lines and those of other common chrriers connecting therewith, and shall not discriminate in their rates and charges between such
connecting lines, or on freight coming over such lines; but this shall not
be construed as requiring any common carrier to use for another common
carrier its tracks, eqmpments or terminal facilities without reasonable compensation.
(b) That it shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject to the provisions of this act, to enter into any combination, contract or agreement,
-expressed or implied, to prevent, by change of time or schedule, .or by carriage in different cars, or by any other means or devices, the carriage or
-freight from being continuous from the place of shipment to the place of
'destination; and no break of bulk, stoppage or interruption made by such
common carrier shall prevent the.carriage of freight from being treated as
one continuous carriage from the place of shipment to the place of destination, unless such break, stoppage or interruption was made in good 'faith
for some necessary purpose and without any intent to avoid or unuecessarily interrupt such continuous carriage or to evade any of the provisions of
this act.
(c) Every common carrier operating a railway in this State shall, without unreasonable delay furnish, start and run cars for the transportation
of persons and property, which, within a reasonable time theretofore, is
offered for transportation at any of its stations on its line of road and at
the jnnctionsoof other railroads, and at such s.topping places as may be
established for receiving and discharging passengers and freights, and
shall take, receive, transport and discharge such passengers and- property
at, from and to such stations, junctions and places, on and from all trains
advertised to stop at the same, for passengers and freights respectively,
upon the due payment or tender of payment, of tolls, freight or fare therefor, if such payment is demanded. Every such common carrier shall permit connections to be made and maintained in a reasonable manner with its
side tracks to and from any warehouse, elevator or manufactory without
reference to its size or capacity, ptovided, that this shall not be construed
so as to require any common carrier to construct or furnish any side track
off from its own land, provided further, that where stations are ten (10)
miles or more apart the common carrier, when required to do so by the
railroad and warehouse commissioners, shall construct and maultain a side
track for the use of shippers between such stations.
(d) Whenever apy property is received by any common carrier subject to

WiICAGO &c. IAILWAY 00. v. NINMESOTA.

..421

Statement of the Case.

The first section of the act declares that its provisions shall
apply to any common carrier "engaged in the transportation
the provisions of* this act, to be transported from one* place to another
within this State, it shall be unlawful for such common-carrier to limit in
any way, except as stated in its elassification schedule, hereinafter provided
for, its common-lawliablity with reference to such property while'in its
custody as a common carrier (as herembefore mentioned), such liability
must include the absolute responsibility of the common carrier for the acts
of its agents in relation to such property.
SEC. 4. 'That it shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject to -the
provisions of this act, to enter into any contract, agreement, or combination with any other common carrier or carriers -Ior the division or -pooling of -business of different and clmpetng railroads, or to divide between
them the aggregate or net proceeds of the earnings of such railroads, or
any portion thereof, and in case of an agreement for 'the pooling of their
business aforesaid each day of it9 continuance shall be deemed a separate
offence.
SEc. 5. That if any common carrier, subject to the provisions of this act,
shall, directly or indirectly, by any special rate, rebate, drawback or other
device charge, demand, collect or receive from any person or, persons a
greater or less compensation for any service rendered, or to be rendered, in
the transportation of passengers- or property subject to the provisions of
this act, than it charges, demands; collects or receives from any other person or persons for doing for him or them a like and contemporaneous service m the-transportation of passengers or propetty, such common carrier.
shall be deemed guilty of unjust discrimination, which is hereby prohibited.
.and declared to be unlawful
SEc. 6. That it shall be unlawful for any common carrier, subject to the
provisions of this act, to charge or.receive any greater compensation for
the transportation of- passengers or of like kind or class and quantity of
property, for a shorter-than for a longer distance over the same line, the
shorter being Included within the longer distance; but this shall not,be
construed as authorizing any common carrier, subject to the provisions of
this act, to charge or receive as great compensation for a shorter as for a
longer distance.
Trovided, owevevr That ul1on application to the commission appointed
under the provisions of this act; such common carrier may, in special cases,
after investigation by the commissioners, be auhorized to charge less, for
longer than for shorter distances, for the transportation of passengers or
property; and the commission may from-time to time prescribe the extent
to which such designated common carrier may be relieved from -the operation of this section of-this act.
SEC. 7. (a)'That it shall be unlawful for any common carrier, subject to
the provisions of this act, to charge or receive, any greater compensation,
per ton, per mile, for the contemporaneous transportation of the same class

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

of passengers or property wholly by railroad, or partly by
railroad and partly by water, when both are used under a
of freight for a longer than for a shorter distance over the same line, in the
same general direction, or from the same original point of departure, or to
the same point of arrival, but this shall not be construed as authorizing
any common carrier, subject to the provisions of this act, to charge as
high a rate per ton, per mile, for a longer as for a shorter distance.
(b) Whenever any railway company doing business in this State shall
be unable, from any reasonable cause, to furnish cars at any railway station.
or side track, in accordance with the demands made by all persons demanding cars at such stations or side tracks for the shipment of grain or other
freight, such cars as are furnished shall be divided as equally as may be
among the applicants until each shipper shall have received, at least, one
car, when the balance shall be divided ratably in proportion to the amount
of daily receipts of grain, or other freight, to each shipper, or to the amount
of grain offered at such station on side tracks.
(c) There shall in no case be more than one terminal charge for switching or transferring any car, whether the same is loaded 'or empty, within
the limits of any one city or town. If it is necessary that any car pass
over the tracks of more than one company, within such city or town limits,
in order to reach its final destination, or to be returned therefrom to its
owner or owners, then the company first switching or transferring such car
shall be entitled to receive the'entire charge to be made therefor, and shall
be liable.to the company or companies doing the subsequent switching or
transferring thereof for its or their reasonable and equitable share of tle
compensation received, and if the companies so jointly interested therein
cannot agree upon the share thereof which each is entitled to receive, the
same shall be qetermmed by the board of railroad and warehouse commssioners, whose decision thereon shall be final and conclusive upon all1
parties interested, and the said board are authorized to establish such rules
[and] regulations in that behalf as to them may seem just and reasonable and
not in conflict with this act.
SEC. 8. (a) That every common carrier; subject to the provisions of this
act, shall, within sixty (60) days after this 4ct shall-take effect, print and
thereafter keep for public inspection, schedules showing the classification,
rates, fares and charges for the transportation of passengers and property
of all kinds and classes which such common carrier has established, and
which are in force at the time, upon its railroad, as defined by the first (lst)
section of this act. This schedule printed as aforesaid by such common
carrier shall plainly state the places upon its railroad between which property and passengers will be carried, and "shall contain "classification of
freights" in force Upon each [of] the lines of such railroad, a distance tariff,
and a table of interstation distances, and shall also state separately the terminal charges, and any rules or regulations, which in anywise change, affect
or, determine any part of'the aggregate of such aforesaid rates, fares and

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY Co. v. ]INIESOTA.

423

Statement of the Case.

common control, management or arrangement, for a carriage
or shipment from one place or station to another, both being
within the State of Minnesota."
charges. Such dehedules shall be plainly printed: in large *type,and copies,
for the use of the public, shall be kept in every depot or station upon any
such railroad, in such places and in such form that they can be conveniently
'inspected.
(b) No change of classification shall be made, and no change shall be
made in the rates, fares and charges, .which have been established and
published as aforesaid, by any common carrier, m compliance with the requirements of this section, except after ten (10) days' public notice, which
notice shall plainly state the changes proposed to be made in the schedules
then in -force, and the time when the changed schedules will go into effect,
and the proposed changes will be shown by printing new schedules, or shall
be plainly indicated upon the schedules in force at the time and kept for
public inspection.
(c) And when any common carrier shall have established and published
its.classifications, rates, fares and charges in compliance with the provisions
of this section, it shall be unlawful-for such common carrier to charge, deinand, collect or receive from any person or persons a greater or less compensation for the transportation of passengers or property or for any service in connection therewith, than is specified in such published schedule of
classifications, rates, fares and charges as may at the time be in force.
(d) Every common carrier, subject to the provisions of this act, shall file
with the commission hereafter provided for in section ten (10) of this act,
copies of its schedules of classifications, rates, fares and charges which
have been established and published in compliance with the requirements of
this section, and shall promptly notify said commission of all changes proposed to be made in the same. Every [such] common carrier shall also file
with said commission copies of all contracts, agreements or arrangements
with other common carriers in relation to any traffic affected by the provisions of this act, to which contracts, agreements or arrangements it may. be
a party. And in cases where passengers or freight pass over lines or routes
operated by more than: one common carrier, and the several common carriers operating such lines or routes, establish joint schedules of rates or
fares, or charges or classifications for such lines or routes, copies of such
joint pchedules shall also, in like manner, be filed with said commission.
Such joint schedules of rates, fares, charges and classifications, for such
lines, so filed-as aforesaid, shall also be made public by such common carriers in the same manner as hereinbefore provided for the publication of
tariffs upon its own lines.
(e) That in case the "commission shall at any time find that any pa t of
the tariffs of rates, fares, charges or classifications so filed and published
as hereinbefore provided, are in any respect unequal or unreasonable, it
shall have the power and is hereby authorized and directed to compel any

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

The second section declares "that all. charges made by any
common carrier, subject to the provisions of this act, for any
common carrier to change the same and adopt such rate, fare, charge or
classification as said commission shall declare to be equal and reasonable.
To which end the commission shall, in writing, inform such common carrier,
in what respect such tariffs of rates, fares, charges or classifications are unequal and unreasonable, and shall recommend what tariffs shall be substituted therefor.
(f) In case such common carrier shall neglect or refuse, for ten (10)
days after such notice to substitute such tariff of rates, fares, charges or
classifications, or to adopt the same as recommended by the commission,
it shall be the duty of said commission to immediately publish such tariff
of rates, fares, charges or classifications as they had declared to be equal
and reasonable, and cause the same to be posted at all the regular stations
on the line of -such common carrier in this State, and thereafter it shall be
unlawful for such common carrier to charge or maintain a higher or lower
rate, fare, charge, or classification than that so fixed and published by said
commission.
(g) If any common carrier,- subject to the provisions of this act, shall
neglect or refuse to publish or file its schedule of classifications, -rates,
fares or charges or any part thereof as provided in this section, or if any
common carrier shall refuse or neglect to carry out such recommendation
made and published by such commission, such common carrier shall be
subject to a writ of mandamus, to be issued by any judge of the SupremeCourt, or of any of the district courts of this State upon application of
the commission, to compel compliance with the requirements of this section
and with the recommendation of the commission and failure to comply
with the requirements of said writ of mandamus "shall be pumshable as and
for contempt, and the said commission, as complainants, may also apply to
any such judge for a writ of injunction against such common carrier from
receiving or transporting property or passengers within this State until
such common carrier shall have complied with the requirements of this
section and the recommendation of said commission; and for any wilful
violation or failure to comply with such requirements or such recommendation of said commission, the court may award such costs, including counsel
fees, by way of penalty, on the return of said writs and after due deliberation thereon, as may be just.
SEC. 9. (a) That a commission is hereby created and established, to be
known as the "Railroad and Warehouse Commission of the State of
Minnesota," which shall be composed of three (3) commissioners, who shall
be appointed by the governor, by ahd with the advice and consent of the
senate.
(b) The commissioners first appointed under this act shall continue in
office for the term of one (1) two (2) and three (3) years respectively and
until their successors are- appointed and qualified, beginning with the

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. MLNNESOTA.

425

Statement of the Case.

service rendered or to be rendered in the transportation of
passengers or property as aforesaid, or in connection therefirst (Ist) Monday of January, A.D. 1889; the term of each to be designated by the Governor, but their successors shall be appointed for a
term of three (3) years, and until their successors are appointed and qualified, except that, any person chosen to fill a vacancy shall be appointed
only for the unexpired term of the commissioner whom he shall succeed.
Any commissioner may be removed by the Governor for inefficiency,
neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office. Said commissioners shall not
engage in any other business, vocation, or employment while acting as
such commissioners. No vacancy in the commission shall impair the
right of the remaining commissioners to exercise all the powers of the.
commission.
(c) Vacancies occasioned by removal, resignation or other cause shall be
filled by the governor as provided in case of original appointments. Not
more than two of the commissioners appointed shall be members of the
same political party No person in the employ of or holding any official
relation to any common carrier subject to the provisions of this act, or
any law of this State; or owning stocks or bonds, or other property thereof,
or who is in any manner interested therein, shall enter upon the duties of,
or hold such office.
(d) The decision of a majority of the commission 'ball be considered
the decision of the commission on all questions arising for its consideration. Before entering upon the duties of his office each commissioner
shall make and subscribe and file with the Secretary of State an affidavit in
the following form: "I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be)
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the constitution of the State of Minnesota, and that I .vill faithfully discharge my
duties as a member of the railroad and warehouse commission of the state
of, Minnesota, according to the best of my ability; and I further declare
that I am not in the employ of, or holding any official relation to any common carrier within this state; nor am I in any manner interested in any
stock, bonds or other proper r of such common carxier."
(e) Eacli commissioner so appointed and qualified shall enter into bonds
[to] of the State of Minnesota, to be approved by, the Governor, in the sum
of twenty thousand (20,000) dollars, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duty as a member of such commission, which bond shall be
filed with the secretary of state.
(f) The commission shall conduct its proceedings In such a manner as
will best conduce to the proper dispatch of business and to the ends of
justice. A majority'of the commissioners shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of buginess, but no commissioner shall participate in any
hearing or proceeding in which he has any pecuniary interest. Said commission may from time to time make or amend such general rules or
orders as may be requisite for the order and regulation of proceedings

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

with, or for the receiving, delivering, storage or handling of
such property, shall be equal and reasonable, and every unbefore it, including forms of notices and service thereof, which shall conform as nearly as may be to those in use in the courts of this State. Any
party may appear before said commission and be heard in person or by
attorney. Every vote and official act of the commission shall be entered
of record and its proceedings shall be public upon the'request of either
party interested, or at the discretion of the commission. Said commission
shall have an official seal which shall be judicially noticed. Any member of
the commission may administer oaths and affirmations. The principal office
of the commission shall be in the city of St. Paul, where its general session
shall be held.
(g) Whenever the convenience of the public or of the parties may be
promoted, or delay or expenses prevented thereby the commission may
hold special sessions in any part of the State. It may by one, or more, of
the commissioners prosecute any inquirv necessary to its duties in any
part of the State, into any matter or question of fact pertaining to the
business of any common carrier subject to the provisions of this act.
(h) The attorney general of the State of Minnesota shall be ex officio
attorney for the commission, and shall give them such counsel and advice
as they may from time to time require; and he shall institute and prosecute
any and all suits which said railroad and warehouse commission may deem
it expedient and proper to institute; and he shall render to such railroad
and warehouse commission all counsel, advice and assistance necessary to
carry out the provisions of this act, or of any law of this state, according
to the true intent and meaning thereof. It shall likewise be the duty of
the county attorney of any county in which suit is instituted or prosecuted,
to aid in the prosecution of the same to a final issue upon the request of
such commission. Said commission are hereby authorized, when the facts
in any given case shall in their judgment warrant, to employ any and all
additional legal counsel that they may think proper, expedient and necessary to assist the attorney general or any county attorney in the conduct
and prosecution of any suit they may determine to bring under the provisions of this act, or of any law of this state.
SEC. 10. (a) That the commission hereby created shall have authority to
enquire into the management of the business of all common carriers, subject to the provisions of this act, and shall keep itself informed as to the
manner and method in which the same is conducted, and shall have the
right to obtain from such common carriers full and complete information,
necessary to enable the commission to perform the duties and carry out the
objects for which it was created, in order to enable said commissioners
efficiently to perform their duties under this act, it is hereby made their
duty to cause one of their number to visit the various stations on the lines
of each railroad as often as practicable, after giving twenty (20) days'
notice of such visit and the time and place thereof in the local newspapers,

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. MINNESOTA.

427

Statement of the Case.

equal and unreasonable charge for such service is prohibited
and declared to be unlawful."
and at least once in twelve (12) months to visit each county in the State in
which is or shall be located" a railroad station, and personally enquire into
the management of such railroad business, and for this purpose, all railroad companies and common carriers, and their officers and employ6s, are
required to aid and furnish each member of the railroad and warehouse
commission with reasonable and proper facilities, and each, or all of the
members of said commission, shall have the right, in his or their official
capacity, to pass free on any railroad trains on all railroads in this State,
and to enter and remain in at all suitable times, any and all cars, offices or
depots, or upon the railroads of any railroad company, in this State in the
performance of official duties; and whenever, m the judgment of the commission, it shall appear that any common carrier fails in any respect or particular to comply with the laws of this State, or -whenever in their judgment, any repairs are necessary upon its railroad, or any addition to or
change of its stations or station-houses is necessary, or any change in the
mode of operating its road or conducting its business Is reasonable or expedient in order to promote the security, convenience and accommodation
of the public, said commission shall inform such railroad company, by a
notice thereof in writing, to be served as a summons in civil actions is
required to be served by the statutes of this State in actions against corpo.rations, certified by the commission's dlerk"or secretary, and if such common carrier shall neglect or refuse to comply with such order, then the
commission may, m its discretion, cause suits or proceedings to be instituted to enforce its orders as provided in this act.
SEC. 11. (a) That in cse any common carrier, subject to the provisions
of this act, shall do, cause to be done, or permit. to be done, any act or
thing in this act prohibited or declared to be unlawtul, or shall omit to do
any act, matter or thing in this act required to be done, such common carrier shall be liable to the person or persons, party or parties injured thereby,
for the full amount of damages sustained in consequence of any such violation of the provisions. of this act, together with a reasonable counsel or
attorney's fee to be fixed by the court in every case of fecovery, which attorney's fees shall be taxed and collected as part. of the costs in the case.
(b) That any person or persons, party or parties claiming to be damaged
by the action or non-action of any common carrier, subject to the provisions of this act, may either make complaint to the commission, as hereinafter provided for, or may bring suit in his or their own behalf f9r the recovery of the damages for which such common- carrier.may be liable under
the provisions of this act, in any district court of this State of competent
jurisdiction, but such person or persons shall not have the right to pursue
both of said remedies at the same time.
(c) -In any action brought for the-recovery of damages the court before
wnch the same shall be pending may compel any director, officer, receiver,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

The eighth section provides that every common carrier
subject to the provisions of the act shall print and keep for
trustee or agent of any corporation or company defendant in such suit, to
attend, appear and testify in such case, and may compel the production of
the books and papers of such corporation or company party to any such
suit; the claim that any such testimony or evidence may tend to criminate
)the person giving such evidence shall not excuse such witness from testifying, but such evidence shall not be used against such person on the trial
of any criminal proceeding.
SFc. 12. That any common carrier, subject to the provisions of this act,
or whenever such common carner is a corporation, any director or officer
thereof, or aiy receiver, trustee, lessee, agent or person acting for, or
employed by Auch corporation, who, alone or with any other corporation,
company, person or party shall wilfuffly do or cause to be done, or shall
wilfully suffer or permit to be done, any act, matter or thing in this act
prohibited or declared to be unlawful, or who shall aid or abet therein, or
shall wilfully omit or fail to do any act, matter or thing in this act, required to be done, or shall cause or willingly suffer or permit any act, matter or thing so directed -orrequired by this act to be done, not to be so done,
or shall aid and abet therein any such omission, or shall be guilty of any
-wilful Infraction of this act, or shall aid or abet therein, shall be deemed
guilty of a violation of the provisions of this act and shall, upon conviction
thereof in any distrct court of the State within the jurisdiction of which
such offence was -committed, be subject to a penalty of not less than two
thousand five hundred (2500) dollars or more than five thousand (5000A
dollars for the first offence, and not less than five thousand (5000) dollars
or more than ten thousand (10,000) dollars for'each subsequent offence.
Sac. 13. (a) That any person, firm, cbrporatioq or association, or any
mercantile, agricultural or manufacturing society, or any body politic or
municipal organization, complaining of anything done or omitted to be done
by any common carner subject to tbe provisions of this act, in contravention of the proviions thereof, may apply to said commission by petition,
which shall briefly state the facts.
(b) Whereupon a statement of the charges thus made shall be forwarded
by the comifission to such common carrier, who shall be called upon to
satisfy the complaint, or to answer the same in writing within a reasonable
time, to be specified by the commission. If such common carner, within
the time specified, shall make reparation for the injury alleged to have been
done, said carrier shall be relieved of liability to the complainant only for
the particular violation of law thus complained of. If such carrier shall
not satisfy the complainant within the time specified, or there shall appear to
be any reasonable ground for investigating said complaint, it shall be the
duty of the commissionsummarily to'investigate the matter complained of,
in such Inanner and by sruch means as it.siall deem proper. No complaint
shall at any time be dismissed because of absence of direct damages to the

CTICAGO &c. RAILWAY -CO.v.MINNESOTA.

429

Statement of -the Case.

publio niispection schedules of the charges which it has established for the transportation of property, that it shall make
complainant. And for the purposes of this act the commission shall have
power to require the attendance of witnesses and the production of all
books, papers, contracts, agreements and documents relating to any matter
under investigation, and, to that end, may invoke the aid of any of the
courts of this State, in requiring the attendance of witnesses and the production of books, papers and.documents, under the provisions of this -act.
(c) Any of -the district courts of this State, within the jurisdiction of
which such inquiry is carried on, 6hall, in case of contumacy or refusal to.
obey a subpcena issued by the commissioners to any common carrier -subject
to the provisions of this act, or, when such common carrier is a corporation,
to an officer or agent thereof, orto any person connected therewith, if proceedings are mstituted-in the name of such commission as plaintiffs, issue
an order requiring such commoncarrier, officer or agent, or person to show
cause why such contumacy or refusal should not be punished as and for contempt,; and if upon the hearing .the court finds that the inquiry is within
•the jurisdiction of the commission; and that such contumacy or refusal is
wilful and the same is.persisted in- such contumacy or relusal shall be punished as though the same had taktu place in an action pending in the district court for any judicial disfrict in this .State. The dlaim that any such
testimony or evidence may tend to criminate" the person giving suck evidence shall not excuse such 'fitness from testifying; but such evidence or'
testimony shall not be used aqailst such persons on the trial of, any criminal proceeding.
Sac. 14. (a) Whenever an investigation~shall be made by saici commission, it shall be its duty to make a report in writing in respect thereto',
which shall include the finqings of fact upon which the conclusions of the
commission are based, together with -its recommendation as to what reparation, if any, should be made'by. the common carrier to party'or -parties who
may be found to have been injured, and such findings so made shallthereafter, in all judicial proceedings, be deemed prima facie evidence as to eac
and every fact found. All reorts- of investigations made by the commission shall be entered of record, and a-copy thereofshall.be furmshed to the
party who may have-complained, and to any common carrier that may have
been complained of, and the record thereof shall be publie.
(b) If in any case in which an investigation shall be made by said commission it shall be made to appear to-th6 satisfaction of the commission,
either by testimony of witnesses or other evidence, that anything.has been
done or omitted to be cone by uny common carrier,,in violation of the provisions of this act or of any law cognizable by said commission, or that any'
injury or damages has been sustained.by the party or-parties complainmg,
or by other parties aggrieved in consequence of any such violation, it shall
be the duty of the commission to forthwith cause a copy of its report in reoWc thereto to.be delivered to such -common carrier, together with a notice

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

no change therein except after ten days' public notice, plainly
stating the changes proposed to be made, and the time when
to said common carrier to cease and desist from such violation and to make
reparation for the injury so found to have been done, witnn a brief but
reasonible time, to be specified by the commission, and if within the time
specified, it shall be made to appear to the commission that such common
carier has ceased from such violation of law, and has made reparation for
the injury found to have been done, in compliance with the report and notice of the commission, or to the satisfaction of the party complaining, a
statement to that effect shall be entered of record by the commission, and
the said common carrier shall thereupon be relieved from further liability
or penalty foF such particular violation of law.
(c) But if said common carrier shall neglect or refuse, within the time
specified, to desist from such violation of law, and make reparation for the
-injury done in compliance with the report and notice of the commission as
aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the commission to forthwith certify the
*fat of such neglect or refusal, and forward a copy of its report and such
certificate to the attorney general of the State, for redress and punishment
as hereinafter provided.
SEc. 15. (a) That it shall be the dlity of the attorney general to whom
said commission may forward its report' and certificate, as provided in the
next preceding section of this act, when it shall appear from such report
that any injury or damages has been sustained by any party or parties by
reason of such violation of law by such common carnier, to forthwith cause
suit to be brought in the district court in the judicial district wherein such
violation occurred, on behalf and in the name of the person or persons Injured, against such common carrier, for the recovery of damages for such
injury as may have been sustained by the injured party, and the cost and
expenses of such prosecution shall be paid out of the appropriation hereinafter provided for -forthe uses and purposes of this act.
(b) And the said court shall have power to hear and determine the matter
on sucb. short notice to the common carrier complained of as the court
shall deem reasonable; and &uch notice shall'be served on such common
carrier, his or its officerstagents or servants, in such manner as the court
shall direct, -andsaid .court -shall proceed to hear and determine the matter
speedily, and without the formal pleading and proceedings applicable to or-dinary suits in equity - but m such manner as to do justice in the premises,
and to this end such court shall have power if it thinks fit to direct and
prosecute, in such mode and -by such persons as it may appoint, all such
inquiries as the court may think needfdl to enable it to form a just 3udgrpent in the matter of such petition. And on such hearing the report of
.said commission shall be prima facie evidence of the-matters therein stated.
(r) And if It be made to appear to such court, on such hearing, or on
- report of any such person or persons, that the lawful order or requirement
of such commission, drawn in question, has been violated or disobeyed, it

CHICAGO &c, RAILWAY CO. V. NI

= SOTA.

431

Statement of the Case.

they will go into effect, that it shall be unlawful for it to
charge or receive any greater or less compensation tlan that
shall be lawful for such court to issue a writ of injunction, or other proper
process, mandatory or otherwise, to restrain such common carrier from
further continuing such .violation or such disobedience of such order or
requirement of said commission, and enjoimng obedience to the same; and
in case of any disobedience of any such writ of injunction or other proper
process, mandatory or otherwise, it shall be lawful for such court to issue
writs of attachment, or any other process of said court incident or applicable to writs of injunction or-other proper process, mandatory or otherwise,
agamst such common carrier; and if a corporation, against one or more of
the directors, officers or agents of the same, or against any owner, lessee,
-trustee, receiver or other person failing to obey such writ of injunction or
other proper process, mandatory or otherwise; and said court may, if it shall
think fit, make an order directing such common carrier or other person so
disobeying such writ of injunction or other proper process, mandatory
or otherwise, to pay such sum of money., not exceeding for each carrier or
person in default the sum of five hundred (500) dollars for every day
after a day to be named in the order, that such carrier or other person shall
fail to obey such injunction or other proper process, mandatory or otherwise; and such moneys shall be payable as the court,shall direct, either to
the party complaining, or'into court to abide the ultimate decision of the
court ;.and payment tlereof may; without prejudice to any other mode of
recovering the same, be enforced -by attachment or order in the nature of
a writ. of execution,'in like manner as if the same had been recovered by a
fital decree tn;ersonam in such court.
Either party to such' proceeding before 4aid court may -appeal to the
Supreme Court of the'State, under the same regulations now provided by
law in respect to security for. such aplpeal, but. such-- appeal shall not
operate to stay or supersedh the order of 'the court or the execution of any
writ or process thereon, unless the court .Vearing or deciding such case
should otherwise direct; and such court may, m every such matter,.order
the payment of such costs and counsel fees as shall be deemed reasonable."
(d) In case the attorney general sball hiot within a period of ten (10)
days after the making of any order by the commission, commence judicial
proceedings for -the enforcement thereof, any railroad company, or other
common carrier affected by such order, may at any time within the period
of thirty (80) days after the service [of it] upon him or it of such order,
and before commencement of -proceedings; appeal therefrom to the district
cou t of ady judicial district through or into which his or its route may
run, by the service of a written notice of .such appeal upon -some mepnber
or the secretary.of such commission.. And upon the taking of such appeal,
and the filing of the notice thereof, with the proof of serfice,- in the offlce
,of the clerk of such court, there shall be deemed to be pending in such
court a civil action of the character and for the purposes mentioned in sec.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

so established and published, for transporting property, that
it shall file copies of its schedules with the commission, and
tions eleven (11) and fifteen (15) of this act. Upon such appeal, and upon
the hearing of any application for the enforcement of any such order made
by the commission or by the attorney general, the court shall have jurisdic
tion to examine the whole matter in controversy, including matters of fact
as well as questions of law, and to affirm, modify or rescind such order in
whole or in part, as justice may require; and in case of any order being
modified, as aforesaid, such modified order shall for all the purposes contemplated by this act stand in place of the original order so modified.
No appeal as aforesaid shall stay or supersede the order appealed from
in so far as such order shall relate to rates of transportation or to modeg
of transacting the business of the appellant with the public, unless the
court hearing or deciding such case shall so direct.
SEC. 16. (a) That whenever facts, in any manner ascertained by said
commission, shall, in its judgment warrant a prosecution, it shall be the
duty of said commission to immediately cause suit to be instituted and
prosecuted against any common carrier who may violate any of the provisions of this act, or of any law of this State. All such prosecutions shall
be in the name of the State of Minnesota, except as is otherwise provided in
this act, or in any law of this State, and may be instituted in any county in
the State through or into which the line of any common carrier so sued
may extend, and all penalties recovered under the provisions of this act, or
of any law of this State, as any suit instituted in the name of the State,
shall be immediately paid into the state treasury by the sheriff or other
officer or person collecting the same; and the same shall be by the state
treasurer placed to the credit of'the general revenue fund.
(b) For the purposes of this act, except its penal provisions, the district courts of this State shall be deemed to be always in sessiol.
SEC. 17. (a) That the commission is hereby directed to require annual
reports from all common carriers subject to the provisions of tins act, to
fix the time and prescribe the manner in which said reports shall be made,
and to require from such carmers specific answers to all questions upon
which the commission may need information. Such annual reports shall
show in detail the amount of capital stock issued, the amounts paid therefor, and the manner of payment for the same, the dividends paid, the surplus fund, if any and the number of stockholders, the funded and floating
debts -and the interest paid thereon, the cost and value of the carrier's
property franchibes and equipment, the number of employ6s and the
salary paid each class, the amounts expended for improvements each year,
how expended, and the character of such improvements; the earnings and
receipts of each branch of business, and from all sources, the operating
and otlier expenses; the balance of profit and loss; and complete exhibit
of the financial operations of the earner each year, including an annual
balance-sheet; also the total number of acres of land received as grants

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v.

iNNESOTA.

433

Statement of the Case.

shall notify such commission of all changes ,..oposed to be
made, that in case the commission shall find -at any time that
either from the United States or from the State of Minnesota, the number
[of] acres of said grants sold, and average price received per acre, the
number of acres of grants unsold and the appraised value per acre. Such
detailed reports shall also contain such information in relation to rates or
regulations concermng fares or freights and agreements, arrangements or
contracts with express companies, telegraph companies, sleeping and dining
car companies, fast-freight lines, and other common carriers, as the comnssion may require, with copies of such contracts, agreements or.arrangements.
(b) And the commission may within its discretion, for. the purpose of
enabling it the better to carry out the purposes of this act, prescribe (if in
the opinion of the commission it is practicable to prescribe such uniformity
and methods of keeping accounts) a period of time within which all common carriers, subject to the provisions of this act, shall have, as near as
may be, a uniform system of accounts, and the -manner in which such
accounts shall be kept.
SEC. 18. (a) That such commissioners shall, on or before the first (lst)
day of December in each year, and oftener if required by the governor to
do so, make a report to the governor of their doings for the preceding
year, containing such facts, statements and explanations as will disclose
the actual workings of the system of railroad transportation in its bearings
upon the business and prosperity of the people of this State, and such suggestions in relation thereto as to them may seem appropriate.
(b) They shall also, at such times as the Governor shall direct, examineany particular subject connected with the conditions and management of
such railroads, and report to him in writing, their-opinion thereon, with
their reasons therefor. Said commissioners shall also investigate and consider what, if any, amendment or revision of the railroad laws of this State
the best interests of the State demand, and they shall make a special biennial report on said subject to the governor. All such reports made to the
governor shall be by him transmitted to the legislature at the earliest
practicable time.
(c) Nothing in this act contained shall in any way abridge or alter the
remedies now existing at common law or by statute, but the provisions of
this act are in addition to such remddies. Provided, That no pending litigation shall in any way be affected by this act.
SEC. 19. Each commissioner shall receive an annual salary of three
thousand (3000) dollars, payable in the same manner as the salaries of
other state officers. The commissioners shall appoint a secretary, who
shall receive an annual salary of eighteen hundred (1800) dollars, payable
in like manner. Said secretary shall, before entering upon the duties of
his office, make and file with the secretary of state an affidavit in the following form. "I do solemnly swear or affirm (as the case may be) that I
VOL. cxxxiv--28

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

any part of the tariffs of charges so filed and published is in
any respect unequal or unreasonable, it shall have the power,
and it is authorized and directed, to compel any common
-rrier to change the same and adopt such charge as the
will support the'Constitution of the United States and the constitution -of
the State of Minnesota, and that I will faithfully discharge my duties as
secretary of the railroad and warehouse commission of the State of Minnesota, according to the best of my ability, and I farther declare that I am
not in the employ of, or holding any official relation to, any common carrier
or gram warehouseman, within said State; nor am I, in any manner, interested m any stock, bonds or other property of such common carrier or
grain warehouseman." The said secretary so appointed and qualified shall"
enter into bonds to the State of Minnesota, to be approved by the governor in the. sum of ten thousand (10,000) dollars, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duty as secretary of such commission, which bond
shall be filed with the secretary of state. The commission shall have
authority to employ and fix the compensation for such other employ6s as
it may find necessary to the proper performance of its duties, safibject to the
approval of the governor of the State.
The commissioners shall be furnished with a suitable office and all necessary office supplies. Witnesses summoned before the commission shall be
paid the same fees and mileage that are paid witnesses in the district
courts of the State.
All the expenses of the commission, including all necessary expenses for
transportation incurred by the commissioners or by their employ~s under
their order, in making any investigation in any other place than the city of
St. Paul, shall be allowed and paid out of the state treasury on the presentation of itemized-vouchers therefor, approved by the chairman of the commission and the state auditor.
SEC. 20. That the sum of fifteen thousand (15,000) dollars is hereby appropriated -or the use and purposes of this act for the fiscal year ending
July thirty-first (31st), eighteen hundred and eighty-eight (1888), and the
sum of fifteen thousand (15,000) dollars is hereby appropriated for the use
and purposes of tls act for the fiscal yu ir ending July thirty-first (31st),
eighteen hundred and eighty-nine (1889).
SEC. 21. That all acts and parts of acts mconsistent ierewith are hereby
repealed, Provided, That the provisions of this act shall apply to and govern the existing railroad and warehouse commissioners appointed by virtue
of an act approved March fifth (5th), eighteen hundred and eighty-five
(1885), who are hereby clothed with the powers and charged with the
uuties and responsibilities of this act, granted to and imposed upon the
railroad mnd warehouse commissioners of the State of Minnesota.
SEc. 2. Tins act shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage.
Approved March 7th, 1887.

CHICAGO &c: RAILWAY CO. v. MINNESOTA-

435

Statement of the Case.

commission" shall declare to be equal and reas6nable," to
which end the commission shall, in writing, inform such
carrier m what respect such tariff of charges is-unequal and
unreasonable, and shall recommend what tariff shall be substituted therefor, that in case the carrier shall neglect for
ten days after such notice to adopt such ta
of charges as
the commission recommends, it shall be the duty of the latter
to immediately publish such tariff as it has declared to be
equal and reasonable, and cause it to be posted at all the
regular stations on the line of such carrier in Minnesota, and
it shall be unlawful thereafter for the carrier to charge a
higher or lower rate than that so fixed and published by the
commission, and that, if any carrier subject tothe provisions
of the act shall *neglect to publish or file its schedules of
charges, or to carry out such recommendation made and
published by the commission, it shall be subject to a writ of
mandamus "to be issued by any judge bf the Supreme Court
or of any of the District Courts" or the State, on application
of the commission, to compel compliance with the requirements of section 8 and with the recommendation of the
commission, and a failure to comply with the requirements
of the mandamus shall be punishable, as and for contempt,,
and the commission may apply also to any such judge for an
injunction against the carrier from receiving or transporting
property or passengers within the State until it shall have
complied with the requirements of section 8 and with the
recommendation of the comnission, and for any wilful iolation or failure to comply with such requirements or such.
recommendation of the commission, the court may award such
costs, including counsel fees, by way of penalty, on the return
of said writs and after due deliberation thereon, as may be just.
On the 22d of June, 1887, The Boards-of-Trade Union of
Farmington, Northfield, Faribault, and Owatonna, in Minnesota, filed with the commission a petition in writing, complainng that the Chiago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway Company,
being a common carrier engaged in the transportation of
property wholly by railroad, for carriage or shipment from,
Owatonna, Faribault, Dundas, Northfield, and Farmington,

OCTOBER TERM,. 1889.
Statement of the Case.

to the.cities of St. Paul and iMinneapolis, all of those places
being within .the State of Minnesota, made charges for its
services in the transportation of milk from said Owatonna,
Faribault, Dudas, Northfield and Farmington to St. Paul
and Minneapous, which were unequal and unreasonable, in
that it charged four cents per gallon for the transportation of
milk from Owatonna to St. Paul and Minneapolis, and three
cents per gallon from Faribault, Dundas, Northfield and
Farmington, to the said cities; and that such charges. were
unreasonably -high, and subjected the traffic in milk between
said points to unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage. The
prayer of the petition was .that such rates be declared unreasonable, and the carrier be compelled to change the same
and adopt such rates and charges as the commission should
declare to be equal and reaonable.
A statement of the complaint thus madewas forwarded by the
commission, on the 29th of June, 1887, to the railway company,
and it was called upon by the commission, on the 6th of July,
1887, to satisfy the complaint or answer it m writing at the
office of the commission in St. Paul, on the 13th of July, 1887.
On the 30th of June, 1887, Mr. J F Tucker, the assistant
general manager of the railway company, addressed a letter
from Milwaukee to the secretary of the commission, saying
"I have your favor of the' 29th, with complaint as to milk
rates being unreasonable and unequal. They may be unequal
if unreasonable. They are unreasonably low for the service
performed - by passenger train - and are 25 per cent less
than the same commodity is charged into :New York, with
longer distances and hundred times larger volume in favor of
New York. I am frank to say it is hard to appreciate complaints from boards of trade that one-tenth of a cent per gallon
on milk handled on passenger train one mile is unreasonable.
With what is the comparison made that enables such a conclusion ? It's not first-class rates by freight train, and was
made low to encourage the trade, under the hope and promise
that, when the trade were fostered, it. would be advanced.
This, as usual, has been forgotten."
On.the 13th of' July, 1887, ajt the office of the commission

CHICAGO &c. IAILWAY CO. v. MINNESOTA.

437

Statement of the Case.

in St. Paul, the company appeared by J A. Chandler, its duly
authorized attorney, and The Boards-of-Trade -Umon by its
attorney, and the commission proceeded to investigate the
'complaint. An investigation of the rates charged by the
company for its services in transporting milk from Owatonna,
Faribault, Dundas, Northfield and Farmingtot, to St. Paul
and Minneapolis, was made by the commission, and it found
that the charges of the company for transporting milk from
Owatonna and Faribault to St. Paul and Minneapolis were three
cents per gallon in ten-gallon cans, that such charges were
unequal and unreasonable, and that the. company's tari. of
rates for transporting milk from Owatonna and Faribault to
those cities, filed and published by it as provided by chapter
10 of the Laws of 1887, was unequal and unreasonable, and
the commission declared that a rate of 2 cents per gallon in
ten-gallon cans. was an equal and reasonable rate for such services.
On the 4th of August, 1887, the commission made -areport
in writing, which included the findings of fact upon which its
conclusions were based, its recommendation as to the tariff
which should be substituted for the tariff so found to be
unequal and unreasonable, and also a specification of the rateg
and charges which it declared to be equal and reasonable.
This paper was in the shape of a communication, dated.at St.
Paul, August 4, 1887, signed by the secretary of the commission and addressed to the company It said "It appearing
from your schedule of rates and charges for the transportation
of milk over and upon the Iowa and Minnesota Division of
your road, that you charge, collect, and receive for the transportation of milk over and upon said line from Owatonna and
Faribault to the cities of St.-Paul and Minneapolis three cents
per gallon, in ten-gallon cans, and from Dundas, Northfield
and Farmington to said cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis two
and one-half cents per gallon, in cans of like capacity, -and
complaint havingibeen made that such rates and charges.are
unequal and.unreasonable, and that the services performed by
you m such transportation are not reasonablvi worth .the said
sums charged therefor; and this. commissioh having there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

apon, pursuant to the provisions of section eight of an act
entitled 'An act-to regulate common carriers, and creating the
Railroad and Warehouse Commission of the State of Minnesota, and defining the duties of such commission in relation to
common carriers,' approved March 7, 1887, examined the
cause and reasonableness of said complaint, and finding, pursuant to subdivision (e)of said section, that your said tariff of
rates, so far as appertains to the transportation of milk to the
cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis from the other places above
named, and insomuch as said tariff provides for or requires the
charging or collection of a greater compensation than two
and one-half cents per gallon, is unreasonable and excessive.
Therefore said commission recommends and directs that you,
the said Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway Company,
shall alter and change your said schedule by the adoption and
substitution of a rate not to exceed two and one-half cents per
gallon for the services aforesaid from the cities of Owatonna
and Faribault, or either of them, to said St. Paul and Minneapolis. The commission, as at present advised, approves of
the custom and arrangement which, it is informed, has been
adopted and is now in use by the Minnesota & Northwestern
R. R. Co., of collecting two and one-half cents per gallon on
all milk transported by it, regardless of distance; but this expression of opinion is no part of the decision, notice, or order
in this case."
This report was entered of record, and a copy furnished to
*the Boards-of-Trade Union, and a copy was also delivered,
on the 4th of August, 1887, to the company, with a notice
to it to desist from charging or receiving such unequal and
unreasonable rates for such services. The-commission thus
informed the compary in writing in what respect such tariff
of rates and charges was unequal and unreasonable. and
recommended to it in writing what tariff should be substituted
therefor, to wit, the tariff so found equal and reasonable by
the commission.
The company neglected and refused, for more than ten
days after such notice, to substitute or adopt such tariff of
charges as .was recommended by the commission. The latter

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. MINNE ,OTA.

439

Statement of the Case.

thereupon published the tariff of charges which it had aeclared to be equal and reasonable, and caused it to be posted
at the station of the company in Faribault on the 14th of
October, 1887, and at all the regular stations on the line of
the company in Minnesota prior to, 'November 12, 1887, and
in all things complied with the statute.
The tariff so made, published and posted, was dated Octoz
ber 13, 1887, and was headed "Chicago, Milwaukee and
St. Paul Railway Company (Iowa and' Minnesota division.)
Freight Tariff on Milk from Owatonna. and Faribault to St.
Paul and Minneapolis, taking effect October 15, 1887," and
prescribed a charge of 2-4 cents per gallon in ten-gallon cans
from either the Owatonna station or the Faribault station to
either St. Paul or Minneapolis, to be the legal, equal and
reasonable maximum charge and compensation for such service, and declared that the same was in force and effect in
lieu and place of the charges and compensation theretofore
demanded and received therefor by the company
On the 6th of December, 1887, the commission, by the
attorney general of the State, madb an application to the
Supreme Court of the State for a writ of-mandamus to compel the company to comply with the recommendation made
to it by the commission, to change its tariff of rates on milk
from Owatonna and Faribault .to St. Paul and Minneapolis,
and -to adopt the rates declared by the commission to be
equal and reasonable. The application set forth the proceedings hereinbefore detailed, that the company had refused
to carry out the recommendation so made, published and posted
by the commission, that it continued to charge three cents
per gallon for the transportation of milk in ten-gallon cans
from O.watonna and Faribault to St. Paul and Minneapolis;
tha said charge was unequal, unreasonable and excessive,
that 24 cents per gallon for the transportation by it of milk
in ten-gallon cans from Owatonna and Faribault to St. Paul
and Minneapolis was the maximum reasonable charge for the
service; that any rate therefor in excess of 24 cents per gallon
in ten-gallon cans was unequal, unreasonable and excessivo;
that three cents per gallon in ten-gallon cans was a highr rate

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

than was charged for the same distances on passenger trains
by any express company or by any other railroad company
in Minnesota, engaged in transporting milk to St. Paul or
Minneapolis, that 2, cents per gallon in ten-gallon cans -was
the highest rate charged for like distances on passenger trains
by any such company, that the milk transported by the
company to St. Paul and Minneapolis, over its Iowa and
Minnesota division, (extending from Calmar, in Iowa, to
LeRoy, in Minnesota, and frqm LeRoy, through Owatonna
and Faribault, to St. Paul and Minneapolis,) large quantities
of which milk were shipped from Faribault, was so transported by the company on a passenger train which ran daily
from Owatonna to St. Paul and M inneapolis; and that the
company, by means of such excessive charges, subjected the
traffic in milk at Faribault and Owatonna to undue and unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage.
Thereupon, an alternative writ of mandamus was issued
by the court, returnable before it on the 14th of December,
1887.
On the 23d of December, 1887, the company filed its return
to the alternative writ, in which it set up
(1) That it was not competent for the legislature of Minnesota to delegate to a commission a power of filing rates for
transportation, and that the act of March 'T,1887, so far as it
attempted to confer upon the commission power to establish
rates for the transportation of freight and passengers, was
void under the constitution of the State,
(2) That the company, as the owner of its railroad, franchises, equipment and appurtenances, and entitled to the
possession and beneficial use thereof, was authorized to establish rates for the transportation of freight and passengers,
subject only to the provision that such rates should be fair
and reasonable, that the establishing of such rates by the
State against the will of the company was pro tanto a taking
of its property, and depriving it thereof, without due process
of law, in violation of section I of Article 14 of the Amendments to the Constitution of the iited States, and that the
making of the order of October 13, 1887, was pro tanto a

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. MINNESOTA.

441

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

taking, and depriving the company, of its property without
due process of law, in violation of said section 1. and therefore
void and of no effect,
(3) That the rate of three cents per gallon as a freight for
carrying milk in ten-gallon cans on passenger trains from
Owatonna and Faribault respectively to St. Paul and Minneapolis was a reasonable, fair and just rate, that the rate of
2q cents per gallon, in ten-gallon cans, so fixed and established
by the commission, wa not a reasonable, fair or just compensation to the company for the service rendered, and that
the establishing of such rate by the commission, agamst the
will of the company, was pro tanto a taking of its property
without due process of law, in violation of said section 1.
The case came on for hearing upon the alternative writ and
the return, and the company applied for a reference to take
testimony on the issue raised by the allegations in the application for the writ and the return thereto, as to whether the
rate fixed by the commission was reasonable, fair and just.
The court denied the application for a reference, and rendered
judgment in favor of the relator and that a peremptory writ
of mandamus issue. An application for a reargument was
made and denied. The terms of the peremptory writ were
directed to be, that the company comply with the requirements of the recommendation and order made by the commission on the 4th of August, 1887, and change its tariff of rates
and charges for the transportation of milk from Owatonna
and Faribault to St. Paul and Minneapolis, and substitute
therefor the tariff recommended, published and posted by the
commission, to wit, the rate of 2 cents per gallon of milk in
ten-gallon cans from Owatonna and Faribault to St. Pal and
Minneapolis, being the rates published by the commission and
declared to be equal and reasonable therefor. Costs were also
adjudged against, the company To review this judgment,
the company brought a writ of error.
X,7-

ohn V

Cary for plaintiff in error.

I. The court erred in holding that the legislature of Minnesota, either by positive statute or acting- through a railroad

OCTOBER TERA

1889.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

commission, is authorized to make, fix and establish the rates
and charges for the transportation of persons and property
over lines of railivay owned by this company and in denying
the right of the company, under the Constitution of the
United States, to make, fix and establish its rates and charges
over its railway, subject, only, to the provision that such rates
and charges shall be fair, just and reasonable
First. Because the exercise of such a power would impair
the obligation of the contract contained in the charter under
which said road was constructed.
The charter granted in 1856 was a contract between the
Territory of Minnesota and the company organized by said
charter, and the State of Minnesota, succeeding to the Territory on its admission to statehood, was subject to its provisions.
The road was constructed in pursuance of the charter. The
plaintiff in error has succeeded to the ownership of the property and all the rights, franchises and privileges granted by the
charter under the laws of the State of Minnesota. Any legislation of the State impinging upon the rights, franchises and
privileges granted thereby, is a7 impairment of the obligation
of the contract so made, which the plaintiff in error may lawfully resist.
There is no provision in the charter or in any general statute
reserving to the Territory or State of Minnesota the right to
alter, amend or repeal said charter, and it remains in full force
according to the terms of the grant.
The language m the Ddrtmouth College Case, 4 Wheat. 518,
conferring upon the board of trustees -power to fill vacancies
in their own number, is no more explicit than is the language
of this charter, yet this court held that it was a contract that
could not be violated or impaired by the legislature fifty
years subsequently, and held it an affirmativ6 grant of power
for all time, that could not be interfered with.
The cases cited by the Chief Justice in Stom v Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co., 116 U. S. 307, on pages 326- and 327, are
not authorities to qusiify the court in holding the language of
the charter in this respeqt not a contract.

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. M]YTINESOTA.

443

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The case of Promdenwe Bank v Billings, 4 Pet. 514,, was a
contention, that a state bank chartered by a legislature was
not subject to taxation. There was no provision of any kind
in the charter upon that subject, and it was claimed that such
an institution could not be taxed on general principles.
Marks River Br&g v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 419, was a
contention that the legislature, having chartered one bridge,
was not authorized to .charter another over Charles River,
between IBoston and Canbridge, because it would injure the
property interests of the first. There was no claim that the
first charter contained any such restriction, or any affirmative
grant that it should have a monopoly of the business.
In. Minot v. Philade phsa, Wilmsngton & Baltimore Railroad, 18 Wall. 206, the court held, that the provision of the
charter, reqmring-the railroad company to pay annually into
the treasury of the State a tax of one quarter of one per cent
on its capital stock, without any words indicating the intent
of the legislature, that such payment should be in lieu of .all
other taxation, and that no further or different tax should be
subsequently levied for any purpose, was not sufficient to
show a contract binding the State not to levy any other taxes
for any other purpose.
In Bailey v Hagwre, 22 Wall. 215, the Missouri Pacific
Railroad was exempted from taxation until completed, and it
was provided that after its completion, it should be subject to
taxation at the rate assessed" by the. State on other real and
personal property of like value. The contention was that
under this statute only a state tax could be levied upon the
road, but the court held that the provision had no such effect,
that it could be taxed as other property for all purposes.
In Fertilizsng Comany v. JHyde Park, 97 U S. 659, the
majority of the court held, that the charter of a company
authorized to carry on business at a certain place did not allow
it to carry on and continue that business after it became a
nuisance.
In Nfewton v. Commnsswners, 100 U S. 5418, this court held,
that the term "permanently established," used in statutes of
Western States, relating to establishing county seats, did not

OCTOBER -TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

mean that the county seat where it w~s so "permanently
established" should forever remain, but only that it was permanently instead of temporarily established as provided in
said statutes.
In no ofi of these cases, unless it be that of the _Fertilizing
Comyany in 97 U. S., was there any affirmative grant of
power to the company by the legislature in question. They
were cases in which it was claimed that by inference or con8truction such affirmative grant or contract was implied, and
m the case of the Fertilizing Company, Mr. Justice Swayne,
on page 666, states the rule as follows
"The rule of construction in this class of cases is that it shall be most strongly
against the corporation. Every reasonable doubt is to be
resolved. adversely to the corporation. Nothing is to be taken
as conceded except what is given in unmistakable terms or by
an implication equally clear. The afirmative must be showrn.
Silence is negation and doubt is fatal to the claim."
Applying this most stringent rule of construction to this
charter, and it must still be held that it affirmatively creates
a contract between the Territory and the com-any. ,
Second. The judgment of the court violates the natural
right which belongs to every one to fix the price of his services
and of his property or its use. Under our form of 6onstitutional government it has ever been h6ld to be the unquestionable right of every freeman to'have a perfect and entire
property in his goods and estate. 1 Kent Com. 613.
As was said by Lord Ellenborough in Aldnut v Inglis, 12
East, 527, in speaking of the right of an owner to charge an
unreasonable amount for the use of his warehouse

"There

is no doubt that the general principle is favored, both in law
and justice, that every man may fix what price he pleases
upon his own property or the use of it."
In the case of The State Frezght Tax, 15 Wall, 232, 277,
278, Mr. Justice Strong, in delivering the opinion of the court,
says "We concede the right and power
of the
owners of artificial highways, whether such owners be the
State or grantees of franchises from the State, to exact what
they please for the use of their ways. That right is an aftr-

CHICAGO &c. RAILWA-Y.02. *INNESOTA.
Argunient for Praint

445

m Error.

bute of ownership.
The right to make terms for the
use of the roadwaylis in the grantee of the franchises, not in
the grantor."
The State has no more right to assume the control or management of one of these classes of property than it has of the
other, and the right to fix the price of the use of each, inheres
in the owner thereof the same m one case as the other, except
as above stated,.and within the bounds of reasonable compensation, the right, of the owner to fix the charges for the use ofproperty clothed by law with a public interest cannot be questioned any more than his right to property not so clothed.
By the authorities cited in the opimon of the Chief Justice
m .Aunn v .1Jinots, 94: U. S., it appears, that the only limitation upon the right of the owner of this sort of property to
make his own rates was, that he should charge only a reasonable price for the use of such property, and no claim was made
that the legislature had a right to fix such charges. But see
Aldnut v Inglis, 12 East, 527, Bolt v Stennett, 8 T. R.
606.
The Granger Cases, so called, reported in 94 U. S., arose on
statutes passed in Illinois in 1873, and in Wisconsin, Iowa and
Minnesota m 18'74. The Wisconsin and Iowa acts were statutes fixing a maximum tariff. The Illinois, and Minnesota
statutes provided that commissioners should make schedules
winch should be rimafae reasonable rates.
The particular questions involved -i the present record aside
from the general question of power of the legislature, were
not in any of the cases then before the court, except that of
Ckwago, Mfilwaukee &c. Railroad Company v Ackley, whidh,
it would appear from the opinion, received but slight attention
from the court.
Fully admitting the right of the legislature to take such
proper action as may be necessary to secure to the people
reasonable charges for transportation thereon, we deny its
right to arbitrarily and finally fix or determine such charges
by positive statute, and most respectfully ask this court to
again review the decisions made m the cases of Munn, Peik
and Ackley in this respect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for rlantiff An Error.

That the police power of the State, founded upon the maxim
sw utere tuo ut alienum non laedwa, is proper authority for

statutes regulating the management, operation and control of
a railroad so far as it affects the protection of the lives, limbs,
comfort, safety and quiet of all persons, and the protection of
all property in the State, is admitted.
But we deny that this power gives to the legislature the
right to limit or fix the tolls or charges for transportation
which the company would otherwise have the right to make.
Thorpe v. Ruland &f Burlington Railroad Co., 27 Ver-

mont, 140, S. . 62 Am. Dec. 625, Hale's De Portibus Mans,
Cooley's Const. Lim. 88, 91, People v. Draper, 15 I. Y. 532,
Wynehamr v. People, 13 N. Y 378, Aldnut v Ingli8, ubi,
,sup., Tiedman's Limitation of Police Powers, 231, Parker
v. -Metropolitan Railway, 109 Mass. 506, 1 B. Com. 160,
_fewland v .Marsh, 19 Illinois, 376,

Evzne's Appeal, 16

Penn. St. 256, S. C. 55 Am. Dec. 499.
II. ,The court erred in holding that the schedules of rates
fixed by said commission were final and conclusive as to what
were lawful, equal and -reasonable rates, and that they "are
the only ones that are lawful, and therefore, in contemplation
of law, the only ones that are equal and reasonable," instead
of simply holding them as advisory and prma facew or presumptively equal, and subject to review by the court.
III. The court erred in holding that the rate fixed by said
commission, which is not a fair or reasonable rate or just compensation to the owner for the service required, was a lawful
rate which the owner was bound to submit to and obey, and in
granting a peremptory writ of mandamus compelling the
owner to transport freight over its line of railway at the rate
so fixed.
IV The court erred in holding that the State of Minnesota,
since the passage by Congress of an act entitled "An Act to
regulate Commerce," approved February 4, 1887, has the
power to regulate, fix, or establish the tariff rates for the
transportation of freight and passengers over the lines of the
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway, it being an interstate
railway engaged in interstate traffic.

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY Co. v. IMNESOTA.

447

Argument for Defendant in Error.

and Hr H. W Ohilds, for defendant
.Mr .Moses E. ClWo
in error, after discussing a question concerning the juisdiction
of the court below, continued
It remains to inquire whether the law in question,. as interpreted by the Supreme Court of Minnesota; is in conflict with
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution, and
in considering this law, as interpreted by the state court we
should keep in mind that, while the Supreme Court of the State
held that the reasonableness of the rates as fixed by the commission, could not be the subject of judicial review, yet it did.
not leave the commission an irresponsible body, answerable in
no. case to the courts, but on the contrary limited its power
to the exercise of an honest judgment.
It will relieve the discussion of this case from some embarrassment, if it is borne in mind that, in the case made by plaintiff in error to the alternative writ, no allegations are made
that the enforcing the rate established by the board would so
affect the earmngs of the road as to impair its ability to meet
any of its obligations or to seriously affect its revenues.
Neither is it claimed by plaintiff in error that it is protected
by any express contract or charter exemption from legislative
interference in the matter of fixing rates, the company contenting itself as above stated, with the allegation that the
commission "unjustly, unreasonably and oppressively" fixed
the rate, and that the establishment of such rate was a _pro
tanto taking of the property of the plaintiff in error.
This case then involves a determination of the question, can
the legislature prescribe what is a reasonable rate for transr
portation of freight and passengers by a common carrier,
when unrestrained by any provision in the charter of the
company2
,n view of the repeated adjudications of this court sustaining the right of legislatures to establish the rates which common carriers may charge, and to declare by legislative action
what are reasonable rates, we confess to some hesitation in
entering upon an extended discussion of the question.
In -Munn v. 11lifozs, 94 U S. 113, 133,134, in the opinion of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

the late Chief Justice Waite, is to be found a history of legislative control of property clothed with public interest, as well
as also an exhaustive discussion of the principles upon which
such legislative control rests.
In the consideration of the questions involved in that case,
the court, after reviewing the history of the subject and
supporting the position contended for by ample and pertinent
illustrations, says
"It is insisted, however, that the owner of property is entitled to a reasonable compensation for its use, even though it
be clothed with a public interest, and that what is reasonable
is a judicial and not a legislative question.
"1As has already been shown, the practice has been otherwise. In countries where the common law prevails, it has
been customary from time immemorial for the legislature to
declare what shall be a reasonable compensation under such
circumstances, or, perhaps more properly speaking, to fix a
maximum beyond which any charge made would be unreasonable. Undoubtedly in mere private contracts, relating to
matters in which the public has no interest, what is reasonable
must be ascertained judicially But this is because the legislature has no control over such a contract. So, too, in matters
which do affect the public interest, and as to which legislative control may be exercised, if there are no statutory regulations upon the subject, the courts must determine what is
reasonable. The controlling fact is the power to regulate at
all. If that exists, the right to establish the maximum of
charge, as one of the means of regulation, is implied. In fact,
the common-law rule, which requires the charge to be reasonable, is itself a regulation as to price. Without it, the owner
could make his rates at will, and compel the public to yield to
his terms, or forego the use.
" But a mere common-law regulation of trade or business may
be changed by statute. A person has no property, no vested
interest, in any rule of the common law That is only one of
the forms of municipal law, and is uo more sacred than the
other. Rights of property which have been created by the
common law cannot be taken away without due process, but

CHICAGO &c. "RAILWAY CO. v. MINNESOTA.

449

Argument for Defendant m Error.

the law itself, as a rule of conduct, may be changed at the
will, or even at the whim, of the legislature, unless prevented'
by constitutional limitations. Indeed, the great office of
statutes is to remedy defects in the common law as they are
developed, and to adapt it to the changes of time and circumstances. To limit the rate of charge for services rendered in
a public employment, or for the use of property in which the
public has an interest, is only changing a regulation which
existed before. It establishes no new principle in the law, but
only gives a new effect to an old one.
"We know that this is a power which may be abused, but
this is no argument against its existence. For protection
against abuses by legislatures the people must resort to tne
polls, not to the courts."
See, also, Chscago, Burlington & Qumncy Railroadv Iowa,
94: U. S.155, Peio v Chscago & fforthwestern Railway, 94
U. S. 164, Chkcago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railroad v
Ackley, 94 U. S. 179; Winona & St. Peter Railroad v
-Blake, 94: U. S.180.
In Ruggles v. illinos, 108 U. S. 526, 531, the court, citing
and referring to the Granger Cases, says "It was determined
that a ' State may limit the amount of charges by railroad companies for fares and freights unless restrained by some conThe company by its original
tract in the charter.'
charter was authorized to transport passengers and property
and to receive compensation therefor. This, if there had been
nothing more, would, under the rule stated in .Munn v
Illinows, 941U. S. 113, and the several railroad cases decided
at the same time, require the company to carry at reasonable
rates and leave the legislature at liberty to fix the maximum
of what would be reasonable."
Discussing the effect of a provision of its charter, as
amended, which empowered the board of directors to fix rates,
"When, therefore, in a section of
the court says, page 533
the charter which expressly declares that no by-law shall be
made that is in conflict with the laws of the State, we -find
that the rates of charge to be levied and collected for the conveyance of persons and property are to be regulated by byVOL.

xxxr-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Defendanit in Error.

laws, the conclusion is.irresistible that only such charges can
be collected as are allowed by the laws of the State. This
implies that, in the.absence of direct legislation on the subject
the power of the -directors over the rates is subject only to the
common law limitation of reasonableness, for in the absence
of a statute or other appropriate indication of the legislative
will, the common law forms part of .the laws of the State to
which the corporate by-laws must conform: But since, in the
absence of some restraining contract, the State may establish
a maximum of rates to be chaged by railroad companies- for
the transportation of persons and property, it follows that
when a maximum is so established the rates fixed by the directors must conform to its requirements, otherwise the bylaws will be repugnant to the laws." Instead of Ruggles v
Illinots modifying the rule- laid down in the Granger Cases,
we insist, that it is a plain affirmance of that.rule.
Another case which it was urged modified the rule in the
G1anger Cases is the case of Stone v Farmers'Zoan & Trust
Co., 116 U. S.. 307, after referring to the Granger Cases, the
court says:
"From what has been said, it is not to be inferred that this
'power of limitation or regulation is itself without limit. This
power to regulate- is not a power to destroy, and limitation is
not the equivalent of confiscation. Under pretence of regulatmg fares and freights, the State cannot require a railroadcorporation to carry persons or property without reward, neither can it do that which in law amounts to a taking of private
property for public use without just compensation, or without
due process of law What would have this effect we need not
now say, because no tariff has yet been fixed by the commissiou, .and the statute of Mississippi expressly provides 'that
in all trials of cases brought for a violation of any tariff
of charges, as fixed by the commission, it may be shown in
defence that such tariff so fixed is unjust."'
The principles here expressed will doubtless be pressed upon
the court with great force, it being insisted that in the case at
bar the rates have been fixed,. but it may be said in reply that
in nearly all the Granger Cases, the court was called upon to
pass upon a law which had in tact fixed a rate.

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. M-INNESOTA.

451

Argument for Defendant m Error.

However, as stated in the outset, the return to the writ of
mandamus in the case at bar contains no allegations that
could support a claim that the operation of the law would
require the carrier to transport persons or property without
reward, or would amount to a taking of private property
•for public use without just compensation. The most that is
alleged is that the rate so established is unjust and unreasonable, and the statement in general terms that it amounts to a
.potanto taking of the property of the company .without due
process of law But as was said by the court in the case last
cited
"General statutes regulating the use of railroads in a State,
or fixing maximum rates of charges for transportation, when
not forbidden by charter contracts, do not necessarily deprive
the corporation, owning or operating a railroad within the
State, of its property without due process of law, within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of .the United States, nor take away from the corporation the
equal protection of the laws." ,iun-v. Illinoms, 94: U. S.113;
134, 135, Railroad Co. v Bwhmond, 96 U. S.521, 529, iSpmnng
lFalley Water Works v Schottler, 110 U. S. 347, 354.
In Dow v. Beuzelman, 125 U. -S. 680, the court says, concerning alaw of Arkansas fixing a maximum rate for carrymg passengers: "Without any proof of .the sum invested by
the reorganized corporation, or its trustees, the court has no
means, if it would under any circumstances have the po~\er,.
of determining.that the rate of three cents a mile fixed by the
legislature is unreasonable. Still less does it appear thatthere
has been aa.y such confiscation as amounts to a taking-of property without due process of law"
In Georgu& Banking Co. v. Smith 128 U. S. 174,;the principle contended for again received judicial sanction.
Thus we have an unbroken. line of decisions o, this court
commencing with the- case of Munn v Jllinos%decided in
1876, and terminating with the case of 6(eorgm RPailroad &"
Bankng Co. v. Smith, decided in 1888, to support the proposition that when unrestrained -by contract or charter stipulation, the legislature of a State may determine what is a just

OCTOBER TEIM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

and reasonable rate for a common carrer to charge for the
transportation of freight and passengers, that the question of
the reasonableness of the rate is a question for legislative determination, and when so determined, ceases to be the subject
of judicial inquiry
Mr
MR.

F C.
CGoudy closed for appellant.
JUSTICE B

TOirFoRD,

after 'sting

the case as above'

reporte.d, delivered the opinion of the court.
The opinion of the Supreme Court 9 f. Minnesota is reported
in 38 Minnesota, 281. In it the court in the first place construed the statute on the question as 'to-whether the court
itself. had jurisdiction to entertain the :proceeding, and held
that it had. Of course, we ciannot review this decision.
It next proceeded to consider the question as to the nature
and extent of the powers granted to the. commission by the
statute in the matter of fixing the rates of charges. On that
subject it said "It seems to us that, if language -means anything, it is perfectly evident that the expressed intention of
the legislature is that -the rates recommended and published
by the commission (assuming that they have proceeded in the
,manner pointed out by the act) should be not simply advisory
nor merely priwma faze equal and reasonable, but final and
conclusive as to what are lawful or equal and reasonable
charges, that, in proceedings to compel compliance with the
rates thus published, the law neither contemplates nor allows
any issue to be made or inquiry'had as to- their equality and
reasonableness in fact. Under the provisions of the act, the
rates thus published are the only ones that are lawful, and
therefore, in contemplation of law, the only ones that are
equal and reasonable, and, hence, in proceedings like the
present, there is, as said before, no fact to traverse, except the
violation of the law in refusing compliance with the recommendations of the commission. Indeed, the language of the
act is so plain on that point that argument can add :nothing

to its force."

C0IOA:GO &c. RAILWAY O0. v. MINNESOTA.

453

Opunon .of the Court.

It then proceeded to examine the question of the validity of
the act under the constitution of Minnesota, as to whether the
legislature was authorized to confer upon the commission the
powers given to the latter by the statute. It held that, as
the legislature had the power itself to regulate charges by
railroads, it could delegate to a commission the power of fixing su6h charges, and could make the judgment or determination, of the commission as to what were reasonable charges
final and conclusive.
The Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company is
-a corporation organized under the laws of Wisconsin. The line
of railroad owned and operated by it in the pre~ent case extends- from Calmar, 'in Iowa, -to LeRoy n -Minnesota, and
from Leroy, through Owatonna and Faribault, to St. Paul and
-Minneapolis, the line from Calmar to St. Paul and Minneapolis
being known as the "Iowa and Minnesota Division," and being wholly in Minnesota from the point where it crosses the
state line between Iowa and Minnesota. It was constructed
under a charter granted by' the Territory of Minnesota to
the Minneapolis and Cedar Valley :Railroad- Company,'by an
act approved March 1, 1856, Laws of 1856, c. 166, p. 325,.to
construct a railroad from the. Iowa line, at or near the crossing of said line by the Cedar River, through the valley-of
Strait River to, Minneapolis. Section 9 of that act provided
that the directors of the corporation. should have power to
make all needful. rules,. regulations and by-laws touching "the
rates of toll .and the manner of collecting the same, "Iland
section 13, that the company should have power to unite its
railroad -with any .other railroad which was then, -or thereafter might be, constructed in the' Territory of Minnisota, or
adjoining States- or Territories, and, should have power to
consolidate itsstock with any other company or companies.
By an.act- passed' March ,'3, 185'T, c. 99, (11 Stat. 195,) the
Congress of the Uniteid States made a grant of land to the,
Teritory of Minnesota to aid in constructing certain railroad§.
8y an act of the legislature of- the Territory, approved May
'22, 185'[, (Law s of 1857, extra session, p. 20.,) a portion: of such
grant was conferred upon the Minneapblis And Cedar Valley

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Railroad Company Subsequently, in 1860, the State of Minnesota, by proper proceedings, became the owner of the rights,
franchises and property of that company By an act approved

March 10,1862, c. 17, (Special Laws of 1862, p. 226,) the State
incorporated the Minneapolis, Faribault and Cedar Valley
Railroad Company, and conveyed to it all the franchises and

, roperty of the Minneapolis and Cedar Valley Railroad Company which the State had so acquired, and by an act approved
February 1, 1864, (Special Laws of 1864, p. 164,) the name of
the Minneapolis, Faribault and Cedar Valley Railroad Company was changed to that of the Minnesota Central Railway
Company That company constructed the road from Minneapolis and St. Paul to LeRoy, in Minnesota, and the road from
LeRoy to Calmar, in Iowa, and thence to McGregor, in the latter State, was consolidated with it. In August, 1867, the entire
road from McGregor, by way of Calmar, LeRoy, Austin, Owatonna and Faribault, to St. Paul and Minneapolis, was conveyed to the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company, which succeeded to all the franchises so granted to the
Minneapolis and Cedar Valley Railroad Company
It is contended for the railway company that the State of
Minnesota is bound by the contract made by the -Territory in
the charter granted to the Minneapolis and Cedar Valley Railroad Company, that a contract existed that the company
should have the power of regulating its rates of toll, that any
legislation by the State infringing upon that right impairs the
obligation of the contract, that there was no provision in the
charter or in any general statute reserving to the Territory
or to the State the right to after or amend the charter; and
that no.subsequent legislation of the Territory or of the State
could deprive the directors-of the Qompany of the power to fix
its rates of. toll, subject only to the general provision of law
that such rates shoulk be reasonable.
But we are of opmnion that the general language of. the
mnth section of the charter of the Minneapolis and Cedar Valley'Railroad Company cannot be held to constitute an irrepealable contract with that company that it should have the right
for all future time to prescribe its rates of toll, free from all
control by the legislature.of the State.

CHICAGO

&k.

R'AILWAY CO. v. MINNESOTA.

455

Oprnon of the Court.

It was held by this court in Pennsylvan'ta Railroad Co. v.
Miller,, 132 U. ,S. 75, in accordance with a long course of
decisions both in the state courts and-in this court, that a railroad corporation takes its charter, containing a kindred provision with that iii question, subject to the, general law of the
State, and to such changes as may be made in such general
law, and subject to fitume constitutional provisions and future
general legislation, in the absence of any prior contract with
it exempting it from liability to such future general legislation
in respect of the subject matter involved ,. 4nd that exemption
from future general legislation, either by a constitutional provision or by an act of the legislature, cannot-be admitted to
exist unless it is given expressly, or unless it follows by an
implication equally clear with express words.
There is nothing in the mere grant of power, by section-9 of
the charter, to the directors of the company., to make needful
rules and regulations touching the rates of- toll and the manner of collecting the same, which can be properly interpreted
as authorizing us to hold-that the State parted.with its general
authority itself to regulate, at any time inthe future when it
might seq fit to do. so, the rates of toll to be collected by the
company
In Stone v. Farmers' dan and Trust- Co., 116 U. S. "307,
325, the whole subject is fully.considered, the authorities are
cited, and the conclusion is arrived at, that the right of a
State reasonably t-alimit the amount of charges. by a railroad
company for the tfansportation of persons and property-within
ltsjurisdiction cannot be granted away by its -legslature.
unless by words of positive grant or words equivalent in law,
and that a statute- which grants to a railroad company the
right "from time to time to fix, regulate and receive the tolls
and charges by them to be received for transportation," does
not. deprive .the State of its power, within the limits of. itq
general authority, as controlled by the Constitutionr of, the
United States, to act upon the reasonableness of. the tolls and
charges so fixed :a'd regulated. But, after reaching thisconclusion, the court' said (p: 331) "From what has thus been
said, it is not to be inferred that this.power of limitation or

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

regulation is itself without limit. This power to regulate is
not a power to destroy, and limitation is not the equivalent
of confiscation. Under pretence of regulating fares and freights,
the State cannot require a railroad corporation to carry persons
or property without reward, neither can it do that which in
law amounts to a taking of private property for public use
without just compensation, or without due process of law"
There being, therefore, no contract or chartered right in
the railroad company which can prevent the legislature from
regulating in some form the charges of the company for
transportation, the question is whether the form adopted in
the present case is valid.
The construction put upon the statute by the Supreme
Court of Minnesota must be accepted by this court, for the
purposes of the present case, as conclusive and not to be
reexamined here as to its propriety or accuracy The Supreme
Court authoritatively declares that it is the expressed intention of the legislature of Minnesota, by the statute, that the
rates recommended and published by the commission, if it
proceeds in the manner pointed out by the act, are not simply
advisory, nor merely prtma fame equal and reasonable, but
final and conclusive as to what are equal and reasonable
charges, that the law neither contemplates nor allows any
issue to be made or inquiry to be had as to their equality or
reasonableness in fact, that, under the statute, the rates
published by the commission are the only ones that are lawful, and, therefore, in contemplation of law the only ones that
are equal and reasonable, and that, in a proceeding for a
mandamus under the statute, there is no fact to traverse
except the violation of law in not complying with the recommendations of the commission. In other words, although the
railroad company is forbidden to establish rates that are not
equal and reasonable, there is no power'in the courts to stay
the hands of the commission, if it c6hooses to establish rates
that are unequal and unreasonable.
This being the construction of the statute by which we are
bound in considering the present case, we are of opinion that,
so construed, it conflicts with the Constitution of the United

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. MINNESOTA.

457

Opmon of the Court.

States in the particulafs complained of by the railroad company It deprives the company of its right to a judicial
investigation, by due process of law, under the forms and with
the machinery provided by the-wisdom of successive ages for
the investigation judicially of the truth of a matter in controversy, and substitutes therefor,. as an absolute finality,, the
action of a railroad commission which, in view of the powers
conceded to it by the state court, cannot be regarded as
clothed'with judicial functions or possessing the machinery of
a court of justice.
Under section 8 of the statute, which the Supreme Court of
Minnesota says is the only one which relates to the matter of
the fixing by the commission of general schedules of rates,
and which section, it says, fully and exclusively, provides for
that subject, and is complete in-itself, all that the commission
,is required to do is, cm the filing with it by a railroad.company
of copies of itg schedules of charges, to "find" that any part
thereof is in any respect unequal or unreasonable, and- then it
is authorized and directed to compel the company to change
the same and adopt such charge as the commission "shall
declare to be equal and reasonable," .and, to that end, it is
required -to inform the company m writing, in what respect its
charges are unequal and unreasonable. N~o hearing -s provided for, no summons or notice to the company before the
commission has found what it is to find and declared what it is
to declare, no opportunity provided for the company to introduce witnesses before the commission, in fact, nothing whichhas the semblance of due process of law, and although, in the
present case, it appearsthat, prior to the decision of the commission, the company appeared before it by its agent, and the
comir ssion investigated zhe rates charged by the company for
transporting milk, yet it does not appear what the character
of the investigation was or how the result was arrived at.
By the second section of the statute in quegtion, it is provided that all charges made by a common carrier for the
transportation of passengers or property shall be equal and
reasonable. Under this provigion, the carrier has a right to
make equal and reasonable charges for such transportation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

In the-present case, the return alleged that the rate of charge
fixed by the commission was not equal or reasonable, and the
Supreme Court held that the statute deprived the company of
the right to show that judicially The question of the reasonableness of a rate of charge for transportation by a railroad
company, involving as it does the element of reasonableness
both as regards the company and as regards the public, is
eminently a question for judicial investigation, requiring due
process of law for its determination. If the company is
deprived of the power of charging reasonable rates for the use
-ofits property, and such deprivation takes place in the absence
of an investigation by judicial machinery, it is deprived of the
lawful use of its property, and thus, in substance and effect,
of the property itself, without due process of law and in violation of the Constitution of the United States, and in so far
as it is thus deprived, while other persons are permitted to
receive reasonable profits upon their invested capital, the conipany is deprived of the equal ptotection of the laws.
It is provided by section 4 of article 10 of the constitution
of Minnesota of 1857, that "lands may be taken for public
way, for the purpose of granting to any corpQration the franchise of way -forpublic use," and that "all corporations, being
common carriers, enjoying the- right of way in pursuance to
the provisions of this section, shall be bound to carry the mineral, agricultural and other productions and manufactures on
equal and reasonable terms." It is thus perceived that -the
provision of section 2 of the statute in-question is one enacted
in confoimity with the constitution of Minnesota.
The issuing of the peremptory writ of mandamus in this
case was, therefore, unlawful, because in violation of. the Constitution of the United States, and it is necessary tl at the
relief administered in favor of the plaintiff in error should be
a reversal of the judgment of the Supreme Court awarding
that writ, and an instruction for further proceedings by it not
inconsistent with the opinion of this court.
In view of the opinion delivered by that court, it may be
'impossible for any further proceedings to be taken other
than to dismiss the proceeding for a mandamus, if the

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. ] I=DESOTA.

459

Concurring Opinion: Miller, J.

court should adhere to .its opinion that, under the statute, it
cannot investigate judicially the reasonableness of the rates
fixed by the commission. Still, the question will be onen for
review , and
The judgment of th's court ts, Mhat the judgment of the Su.preme Court of linnesota, en.te'ed Afay 4, 1888, awarding a peremptory writ of mandamus sn thts case, be reversed, and the case be remanded to that court, with an
snstrzution. for further _proceedings not inconoten with
the o1nwn of thts court.

MR.

J,UsTIOE MILER

concurring,

Lconcur with some hesitation in the judgment of the court,
but wish to make a few suggestions of the principles which I
think should govern this class of questions la the courts. Not
desiring to make a dissent, nor a prolonged argument in favor
of any views I may have, -I will state them in the form of
propositions.
I.. In regard to tha bnsmes-.Qofnoimon carriers limited t to
points within a single State, that State has the legisfative
power to establish the rates of compensatiofi for such carriage.
2. The power which the legislature has to do this can be
exercised through a commssion which. it may authorize to act
in the matter, such L the one appointed by the legislature of
:Minnesota by the act now under conslderation
Z. Neither the legislature nor such commission acting under
the autt5 AX of the legislature, can establish arbitrarily
and without regara fo "justice and right a. tariff of ratesforsuch transportation, which is so unreasonable as-to piacticaly
destroy the value oi property of persons engaged in the carrying business on the one hand, nor so exorbitant and extravagant as to be in utter disregard of the rights of the public for
the use of such transportation on the other.
4. In either of-these classes of cases there is an ultimate
remedy by "the parties aggrieved, 'in the courts , for relief
against such oppressive legislation, and especially in the courts
of the United States, where the tariff Qf rates established

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Concurring Opinion. Miller, J.

either by the legislature or bv the commission is such as to
deprive a party of his property without due process of law
5. But until the judiciary has been appealed to to declare
the regulations made, whether by the legislature or by the
commission, voidable for the reasons mentioned, the tariff of
rates so fixed is the law of the land, and must be submitted to
both by the camier and the parties with whom he deals.
6. That the proper, if not the only, mode of judicial relief
against the tariff of rates established by the legislature or by
its commission, is by a bill in chancery asserting its unreason.
able character and its conflict with the Constitution of the
United States, and asking a decree of court forbidding the
corporation froi, exacting such fare as excessive, or establishing its right to collect the rates as being within the limits of a
just compensation for the service rendered.
7. That until this is done it is not competent for each mdividial having dealings with the carrying corporation, or for
the corporation with regard to each individual who demands
its services, to raise a contest in the courts over the questions
-which ought to be settled in this general and conclusive
method.
8. But in the present aase, where an application is made to
the Supreme Court of the State to compel the common cartiers, namely, the railroad companies, to perform the services
which their duty requires them to do for the general public,
which is equivalent to establishing by judicial proceeding the
reasonableness of the charges fixed by 'the commission, I
think the court has the same right and duty to inquire into
'the reasonableness of the tariff of rates established by the
-comTission before granting such relief, that it would have if
-called upon so to do by a bill in chancery
9. I do not agree that it was necessary to the validity of
the action of the commission that previous notice should have
been given to all common carriers -interested in the rates to be
established, nor to any particular one of them, any more than
it would have been necessary, which I think it is not, for the
legislature to have given such notice if it had established such
-rates by.legislative enactment.

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. MINTNESOTA.

461:

Dissenting Opinion. Bradley, Gray, Lamar, JJ.

10. But when the question becomes a judicial one,,and the
validity and justice of these rates are to be established or rejected by the judgment 'of a court, it is necessary that the
railroad ,corporations interested in the fare to be considered
should have notice and -have.a right to be heard on the question relating to such fare, which I have pointed out as judicial
questions. For the refusal of the Supreme Court of Minnesota
to receive evidence on.this subject, I think the case ought to
be reversed on the ground that this. is a denial. of due process
of law in a proceeding which takes the property of the company, and if this -be a just construction of the statute of Minnesota it is for that reason void.

Mn JusricE BRADLTEY (with whom concurred Mn. TuSTIcE
GRAY and Mn.

Jus.TIcE

LAmAn) dissenting.

I cannot agree to the decision of the court in this case. It
practically overrules 2Ifunn v llinows, 94 U. S. 113, and the
several railroad cases that were decided at the same time.
The governing principle of those cases was that the regulation
and settlement, of the fares of railroads and other public accommodations is a legislative prerogative and not a judicial
one. This is a principle which I regard as of great importance. When a railroad company is chartered, it is for the
,purpose of perforniing a duty which belongs to the State
itself. It is chartered as an agent of the State for furnishing
public accommodation. The State might' build its -railroads
" if it saw fit. It is its duty and its prerogative to provide
means of intercom~unication between one part of its territory
and another. And this duty is devolved upon the legislative
department. If the legislature commissions private partibs,
whether corporations or individuals, to perform this duty, it.
is its prerogative to fix the fares and freights which they
may charge for their services. When merely a road or a
canal is to be constructed, it is for the legislature to fix the
tolls to be paid .by those who use it, when a company is
chartered not- only to build a, road, but to carry on public
transportation upon it, it is for the legislature to fix the
charges for such transportation.

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opimon. Bradley, Gray, Lamar, JJ.

But it is said that all charges should be reasonable, and
that none but reasonable charges can be exacted, and it is
urged that what is a reasonable charge is a judicial question.
On the contrary, it is preeminently a legislative one, involving considerations of policy as well as of remuneration, and
is usually determined by the legislature, by fixing a maximum
of charges in the charter of the company, or afterwards, if its
hands are not tied by contract. If this maximum is not
exceeded, the courts cannot interfere. When the rates are
not thus determined, they are left to the discretion of the
company, psubject to .the express or implied condition that
they shall be reasonable, express, .when so declared by statute, implied, by the common law, when the statute is silent,
and the common law has effect by virtue of the legislative will.
Thus, the legislature either fixes the charges at rates which
it deems reasonable, or merely declares that they shall be
reasonable, and it is only in the latter case, where what is
reasonable is left open, that the courts have jurisdiction of
the subject. I repeat When the legislature declares that the
charges shall be reasonable, or, which is the same thing,
allows the common law rule to that effect to prevail, and
leaves the matter there, then resort may be had to the courts
to inquire judicially whether the charges are reasonable.
Then, and not till then, is it a judicial question. But the
legislature has the right, and it is its prerogative, if it chooses
to exercise it, to declare what is reasonable.
This is just where I differ from the majority of the court.
They say in effect, if not in terms, tlf at the final tribunal of
arbitrament is the judiciary, I say it is the legislature. I
hold that it is a legislative question, not a judicial one, unless
the legislature or the law, (which is the same thing,) has made
it judicial, by prescribing the rule that the charges shall be
reasonable, and leaving it there.
It is always a delicate thing for the courts to make an issue
with the legislative department of the government, and they
should never do so if it is possible to avoid it. By the decision
now made we declare, in effect, that the judiciary, and not the
legislature, is the final arbiter in the regulation of fares and

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. M-INNESOTA.

463"

Dissenting Opinion. Bradley, Gray, Lamar, JJ.

freights of railroads and the charges of other public accommodations. It is an assumption of authority on the part of the
judiciary which, it seems to me, with all due deference to the
judgment of my brethren, it has no right to make. The assertion of jurisdiction by this court makes it the duty of every
court of general jurisdiction, state or federal, to entertain
complaints against the decisions of the boards of commissioners appointed by the States to regulate their railroads, for
all courts are bound by the Constitution of the United States,
the same as we are.. Our jurisdiction as merely appellate.
The incongruity of this position will.appear more distinctly
by a reference to the nature of the cases under consideration.
The question presented before the commission in each case
was one relating simply to the reasonableness of the rates
charged by the companies, -a
question of more or less. In
the one case the company charged three cents per gallon for
carrying milk between certain points. The commission deemed
this to be unreasonable, and reduced the charge to 2- cents.
In the other case the company charged $1.25 per car for
handling and switching empty cars over its lines within the
city of Minneapolis, and $1.50 for loaded cars, and the commission decided that $1.00 per car was a sufficient charge m
all cases. The companies complain that the charges as fixed
by the commission are unreasonably .low and that they are
deprived of their property without due process of law, that
they are. entitled to a trial by a court and jury, and are not
barred by the decisions of a legislative commission. The
state court held that the legislature had the right to establish
such a commission, and that its determinations are binding
and final, and that the courts cannot review them. Tns
court now reverses that decision, and holds the contrary In
my judgment the state court was right, and the establishment.
of the commission, and its proceedings, were .no violation of
the constitutional prohibition against depriving persons of
their property without due process of law
I think it is perfectly clear, and well settled by the decisions
of this court, that the legislafure might have fixed'the rates
in question. If it had done so, it would have done it through

OOTOBER TiERAi,

1889.

Dissenting Opinion. Bradley, Cray, Lamar, J3.

the aid of committees appointed to investigate the subject, to
acquire information,. to cite parties, to get all the facts before
them, and finally to decide and report. No one could have
said that this was not due process of law And if the legislature .itself could do this, acting by its committees, and proceeding according to the usual forms adopted by such bodies,
I can see no good reason why it might not delegate the duty
to a board of commissioners, charged, as the board in -this case.
was, to regulate and fix the charges, so as to be equal and reasonable. Such a board would have at its command all the
means of getting at the truth and ascertaining the reasonableness of. fates and freights, which a legislative committee has.
It might, or it might not,.swear witnesses and examine parties. Its duties being of an administrative character, it would
have the widest scope for examination and inquiry All means
of knowledge and information would be at its command, - just
as they would be at the command of the legislatiare which created it. Such a body, though not a court, is a proper tribunal
for the duties imposed -upon it..
In the case of Davmdom v City of Hew Orleans, 96 U. S.
97, we decided that the appointment of a board of assessors
for assessing damages was not only due process of law, but the
proper method for making assessments to distribute the burden
:f a public work amongst those who are benefited by it. No
ane questions the constitutionality or propriety of boards for
assessing property for taxation, or for the improvement of
streets, sewers and the like, or of commissions to establish
county seats, and for doing many other things appertaining to
the administrative management of public affairs; Due process
of law does not always requira a court. It merely requires
such tribunals and proceedings as are proper to the subject in
hand. In the Railroad Commzsszon Cases, 116 U. S. 307, we
held that a board of commissioners is a proper tribunal for
determining the proper rates of fare and freight on the railroads of a state. It seems to me. therefore, that the law of
M1innesota did not prescribe anything that was not in accordance with due process of law in creating such a board, and
investing it. with the powers in question.

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. AIUIITESOTA.

465

Dissenting Opinion. Bradley, Gray, Lamar, JJ.

It is complained that the decisions of the board are final
and without appeal. So are the decisions of the courts in
matters within their jurisdiction. There must be a final tribunal somewhere for deciding every question in the world.
Injustice may take place in all tribunals. All human institutions are imperfect - courts as well as commisgions and legislatures. Whatever tribunal has jurisdiction, its decisions are
final and conclusive unless an appeal is given therefroul, The
important question always is, what is the lawful tribunal for
the particular case? In my judgment, in the present case, the
proper tribunal was the legislature, or the board of commissioners .which it created for the purpose.
If not in terms, yet in effec;, the present cases are treatecI
as if the constitutional prohibition was, that no state shall tdke
private property for public use without just compensation, and as if it was our duty to judge of the compensation. -But
there is no such clause in the constitution of the United States.
The Fifth Amendment is prohibitory upon the federal government only, and not upon the state governments. In this matter, -just compensation for property taken for public use,the sbates make their own regulations, by constitution, or
otherwise. They are only required by the federal Constitution
to provide "due process of law" It was alleged in .Dazdson
v _New Orleans, 96 U. S; 97, that the property assessed was
-not benefited by the improvement; but we hbd that that
was a matter with which we would not interfere, the question
was, whether there was due process of law p. 106. If a
state court renders an unjust judgment, we cannot remedy it.
I do not mean to say that the legislature, or its constituted
board of commissioners, or other legislative agency may not
so act as to deprive parties of their property without due
process of law The Constitution contemplates the possibility
of such an invasion of rights. But, acting within their jurisdiction, (as in these cases they have done,) the invasion should
be clear and unmistakable to bring the case within that category lNothing of the kind exists in the cases before us. The
legislature, in establishing the commission, did not exceed its
power; and the commission, in acting upon the cases, did not
VOL. cxxxxv-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion. Bradley Gray, Lamar, JJ.

exceed its jurisdiction. and was not chargeable with fraudulent
behavior. There was merely a difference of judgment as to
amount, between the commission and the companies, without
any indication of intent on the part of the former to do injustice. The board may have erred, but if they did, as the matter was within their rightful jurisdiction, their decision was
final and conclusive unless their proceedings could be impeached for fraud. Deprivation of property by mere arbitrary power on the part of 'the legislature, or fraud on the part
of the commission, are the only grounds on which judicial
relief may be sought against their action. There was, in
truth, no deprivation of property in these cases at all. There
was merely a regulation as to the enjoyment of property,
made by a strictly competent authority, in a matter entirely
within its jurisdiction.
It may be that our legislatures are invested with too much
power, open, as they are, to influences so dangerous to the
interests of individuals, corporations and society But such is
the Constitution of our republican form of government, and
we are bound to abide by it until it can be corrected in a
legitimate way If our legislatures become too arbitrary in
the exercise of their powers, the people always have a remedy
in their hands; they may at any time restrain them by constitutional limitations. But so long as they remain invested
with the powers that ordinarily belong to the legislative
branch of government, they are entitled to exercise those
powers, amongst which, in my judgment, is that of the regulation of railroads and other public means of intercommunication, and the burdens and charges which those who own
them are authorized to impose upoii the public.
I am authorized to say that -Mr.Justice Gray and Mr. Justice Lamar agree with me in this dissenting opinion.

