OCTOBER TERM, 1889
Syllabus.

charge on that aspect of the case. Second. Because Hurlburt
had no authority to make a contract in reference to this
matter. But the contract spoken of, being for a compensation on a quantuan merust, and not for a specified price, it is
immaterial whether Hurlburt had such an authority or not.
If, as the representative of the company, he had made no
express promise to pay, the law would imply one. There is
no question as to his power to direct the work, and no claim
that he exceeded his authority in directing the crossings to be
.made of trestle and pile work. Such being the case, we -do
-not consider it necessary to discuss the abstract question of
whether the language used by the court was technically
accurate as applied to the case, if it was not, there was yet
no material error - none that could have injured the defence.
We do not think that the acceptance of thirty cents for
some of the trestles precluded the plaintiffs as to the value of
others.
The judgment of the court below is
.4ffir'med.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. THIRD NATIONAL BANK OF
CHICAGO.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT
THE NORTHERN

No. 174.

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

DISTRIOT OF ILLINOIS.

Argued January 8,1890. -

Decided March 17, 1890.

A corporation m debt cannot transfer its entire property by lease, so as to
prevent the application of it, at its full value, to the satisfaction of the
debts of the company, and when such transfer is made under circumstances like those shown in this case, a court of equity will decree the
payment of a judgment debt of the lessor by the lessee.
Where, m a court of equity, an apparent legal burden on property is challenged, the court has jurisdiction of a cross bill to enforce, by its own
procedure, such burden.
The court which denies legal remedies, may enforce equitable reniedies for

CHICAGO &c: RAILWAY CO v. CHICAGO BANK. 27T
Statement of the Case.
the same debt; and an application for the latter is not foreign to a bill
for the former.
A cross-bill may. be amended so as to work a change in the 9round 'of the
relief sought, when the proofs which make it necessary are furnished by,
the original complainant in support of allegations in bis bill.
A lessee of a railroad, receiving, money to be expended on the leased property, and misappropriating it by spending it on another property cannot,
by afterwards spending an equal amount of its own money on the leased
property, deprive a creditor of the lessor of an equitable right growing
out of the misappropriation.
A misappropriation of money by a corporation being proved, and an equitable claim against the wrongdoer being established, and it appearing that
the pleadings raise no issue as to the amount of the misappropriation,
and that the officers of the corporation can furnish no. information.on
tbis point, it is no error to hold that it was in excess of the claim.

1w 1865, by a special act of the legislature 6f Illinois, the
Chicago and Pacific Railroad Company was organized as a
body corporate. with authority to construct and operate a
railroad from the city of Chicago to the Mississippi River, at
a point near Savanna, both points being within the State of
Illinois. In 1872 it executed a.trust deed upon its property
to secure $3,000,000 of bonds. On March 9, 1816, judgment
was rendered against it in the United States Circuit Court
for the :Northern'Distrlct of Illinois for the sum of $899.78,
in favor of Horace Tabor. Execution was first issued upon
this judgment September 9, 1876. On May 27, 1876, suit was
brought to foreclose the deed of trust. After a decree fn such.
foreclosure, and on May 1, 1879, the property was sold on an
order of sale, for $916,100, to John I. Blair.and others. Subsequent to April 2, 1880, but within the yea-e prescribed by.
statute, the Chicago and Pacific Railroad Company redeemed
the property from the sale under the foreclosure decree, the
Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company having.
advanced the money therefor. On the 19th of February, 1880,
which was after the foreclosure sale but before the redemption,
the Third INational Bank of Chicago brought suit in the same
court against the Chicago and Pacific Railroad Company,
upon notes given by the company to the bank for money
loaned. On the.3d of April, 1882, judgment was rendered in
that suit, in favor of the bank, for $36,165.36, and on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

15th of July, of the same year, execution was issued thereon.
On the 25th day of June; 1881, which was after the redemption from the foreclosure sale, the property of the Chicago
and Pacific Railroad Company was sold, under an execution
issued upon the Tabor judgment, to Albert Keep, to whom
the certificate of sale was executed. The property so sold
was described as follows
"All and singular the railroad of the Chicago and Pacific
Railroad Company, as the same is now surveyed, laid out,
constructed and located in the counties of Cook, DuPage,
Kane, DeKalb, Ogle and Carroll, in the State of Illinois, including the road-bed, stations, or station-houses, depot grounds,
rails, ties, fences, bridges, viaducts and culverts, and all other
buildings and structures, as well as engine houses, machine
and other shops used in connection with said railroad."
On June 4, 1882, Albert Keep, the purchaser, assigned the
,certificate of sale to Alexander Mitchell, the president of the
Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company The
judgment debtor, not redeeming within the year, the bank, as
judgment creditor, on September 25, 1882, redeemed from the
execution sale by the payment to the marshal of the necessary
sum, $5304.20, and this redemption money was paid to and
received by Alexander Mitchell. The statute of Illinois, with
reference to such redemptions, provides as follows
"S.Vc. 20. If such redemption is not made, any decree or
judgment creditor, his executors, administrators or assigns,
may, after the expiration of twelve months and within fifteen
Months after the sale, redeem the premises in the following
manner Such creditor, his executors, administrators or assigns,
may sue out an execution upon.his judgment or decree, and
place it in the hands of the sheriff or other proper officer to
execute the same, who shall indorse upon the back thereof a
levy of the premises desired to be redeemcd, and the person
desiring to make such redemption shall pay to such officer the
amount for winch the premises to be redeemed were sold,
with interest thereon at the rate of eight per centum per
annum from the date of the sale, for the use of the purchaser
of such premises, his executors, administrators or assigns,

CHICAGO &c. .RAILWAY CO. v. CHICAGO BANK.

279

Statement of the Case.

whereupon such officer shall make and file in the-office of the
recorder of the county in which. the premises are situated a
certificate of such redemption, and shall advertise and offer
the premises for sale under- said execution as in other cases of
sale-on execution." - 21 &. rr and 0urtiss,.Il1. Stat. 1398, c. 77,

20.
The proceedings had were in conformity with this section,
and the marshal. advertised the sale accordingly, on October 24,
1882. As heretofore stated, the redemption by the Chicago
and Pacific Railroad Company was with money advanced by
the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company
This advancement was made m pursuance of these proceedings. On April 1, 1.880, which was subsequent to the com-,
inencement of the suit by the bank, resolutions were passed by
"the stockholders of the Chicago and Pacifib Railroad Company, authorizing the leasing of its property and franchises
to.the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company,
and also.the execution of a new mortgage; and on the next
day, the first-named company executed its lease -to the lastnamed company, and the two companies executed a joint trust
deed upon the same property.to secure the payment of $3,000,000 of bonds, payable in thirty years. By the lease, which
was for 999 years, the lessor (which will for convenience be
called the Pacific Company) not only disabled itself from performing the functions-and discharging the duties of its mcorporation, but also transferred all its property and franchises to
the lessee jhereafter called the Milwaukee .Company). The
consideration of the lease was $1.00, and the performance of
the covenants of the lease by the lessee. The Pacific Company
was largely indebted outside of the amount secured by the trust
deed, it therefore surrendered to the Milwaukee Company all.
the means it had of discharging its indebtedness. Among the
recitals in the lease were these
"Whereas certain other parties to whom the said party of
the second part was so as aforesaid indebted have prosecuted
their several demands in the Superior and Circuit Courts of
Cook County, and other courts of the State of Illinois, and
have procured divers judgments thereon, which now remain

OCTOBER TERM. 1889.
Statement of the Case.

unpaid and unsatisfied of record, and are a lien upon the property of the said party of. the first part, and other of said demands still remain unliquidated, and whereas the said party
of the second part, at the request of the said party of the first
part, now proposes to aid.the party of the first part in procuring a suffidient sum of money to redeem said property from
the aforesaid sale, and to protect said property from all the
aforesaid valid judgment liens, and also to extend and construct the road of said party of the first part to the Mississippi
River;
and also to pay all taxes, charges, or assessments imposed or assessed, or which may be hereafter imposed
or assessed, upon the property or premises of the party of the
first part."
And among the covenants of the lessee were these
"The said party of the second part, in consideration of the
said demise and lease so as aforesaid made by the said party
of the first part, hereby covenants and agrees that it will take
up, pay, cancel, satisfy and discharge the said three thousand
bonds of one thousand dollars each at maturity thereof, and
will pay, cancel and discharge each and every of the coupons
or interest warrants attached to the said bonds, and each of
them, as the same shall become due and payable, so as aforesaid to be made and issued to the parties of the first and second parts and will, during the continuance of this lease, at all
times save the said party of the first part free and harmless
therefrom, and from the mortgage so as aforesaid to be executed by the said parties of the first and second parts to the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, on the second day of
April, 1880,
and the said party of the second part
shall and will, at its own proper cost and expense, preserve and
keep the railway and premises hereby demised, and every part
of the same, in.thorough repair, working order and condition,
and supplied with. rolling-stock and equipment, so that the
business of the said demised railway shall be preserved, encourag~l and developed.
The said party of the
second part hereby covenants, promises and agrees to and with
said party of the first part that at the end of said term, or
other sooner determination of this said lease, the said party of

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. CHICAGO BANK.

281.

Statement of the Case.

the second part shall redeliver and surrender up to' the party of
the first part, its successors or assigns, the said demised railway and premises in as good order-and condition as the same
shall be delivered to the said party of the second part under
this lease, and with such additions, betterments and improvements as shall have been made thereto."
The bonds were sold at ninety-seven cents, and the amount
necessary to redeem from the foreclosure sale was about
$1,100,000. Out of the proceeds of these bonds the Milwaukee
Company not only completed the construction of the entire
road authorized by the charter of the Pacific Company, from,
Chicago to the Mississippi River, but also constructed a bridge
over the Mississippi River, so as to connect this road with its
own line in Iowa.
[On 1 the 18th October, 1882, the two railroad compames
fied the original bill in this suit, to enjoin the sale on execution under the statute above recited. The bank answered, and
also filed a cross-bill, in which the relief prayed for was that
the judgment in favor of the Third National Bank, together
with the amount paid for the redemption from the sale to
Albert Keep, "may be decreed to be a valid and subsisting
lien, created in favor of said Third National Bank, upon all
the property of the said Chicago and Pacific Railroad Company," and that "the court should decree that the same
creates an equitable lien, and incumbrance upon the property
of tho said Chicago and Pacific Railroad Company;" and also
"that a receiver of said property may be appointed according
to the course and practice, with the usual powers of receivers
in like cases; that such receiver may be let into and tqke
possession of said Chicago and Pacific Railroad Company,
with all its property, depot grounds, fixtures and appurtenances, and all the rents, issues and profits thereof; that le
may have~power to operate and manage the said road, that
he may havepower to apply the revenues and all the rents,
1 For the better understanding of the points in the argument for the
appellant, the reporter has added to the facts as stated by 3r. Justice
Brewer, the clauses in brackets. They are substantially repeated in the
opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

issues and profits thereof to the payment of your orator's said
judgment and the amount of redemption money, interest and
costs thereon, paid by it under said sale to Albert Keep,"
also that the said Chicago and Pacific Railroad might be decreed to be sold with its franchises, property, fixtures and appurtenances, under the order and direction of the court, and
that out of the proceeds thereof, the cross-complainant might
have satisfaction of.its said judgment and the amount paid by
it for redemption.
To this cross-bill the originl complainants and the trustees
under the new mortgage were made parties. To this the
plaintiff demurred and, the demurrer being overruled, answered. Proofs were taken, after which the defendant filed
an amended cross-bill, asking that the prayer for general relief in the cross-bill be amended as follows "Or that the
said Chicago, IMilwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company may
be decreed to pay to your orator the amount paid by your
orator upon the redemption of the property of the Chicago
and Pacific Railroad Company from the sale made on execution issued on the judgment of Horace Tabor, with interest
and costs, and the amount of said judgment recovered by your
orator against the said Chicago and Pacific Railroad Company
with interest and costs, by a short day to be specified in said
decree."
The court in its decree, ordered "that the Chicago, Aiwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company pay in to the clerk of
this court, within thirty days, a sum of money sufficient to
satisfy the judgment, costs and interest rendered in favor of
the Third National Bank of Chicago against.The Chicago and
Pacific Railroad Company, including also the amount, with
interest, .paid by the Third National Bank of Chicago to the
United 9tates marshal for the Northern District of Illinois, to
redeem from the sale to Albert Keep as aforesaid, and it is
further ordered, adjudged and decreed, that in case the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company shall fail to
pay said sum of money aforesaid within said thirty days, the
Third National Bank of CIicdgo may move the court for the
appointment of a receiver, with the usual power of receivers,

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. CHICAGO BANK.

283

Argument for Appellant.

to take possession of the said leased property and to operate it
until the amount due to the said Third National Bank of Chicago upon its judgment as aforesaid, with costs and interest
thereon, and the amount, with interest thereon so paid by the
Third National Bank. of Chicago to the United States marshal
for the Northern District of Illinois, to redeem from said sale
to Albert Keep, is paid oilt of the earnings of said road, and
for any other proper relief."
From this decree th. Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul
Railway Company appealed.]
.Ar E. Walker for appellant.
I. The cross-bill is not germane to the original bill, and the
court erred in permitting it to be filed, and m overruling the
plaintiff's demurrer thereto.
A cross-bill is a bill brought by a defendant in a suit against
the plaintiff in the same suit, or against other defendants in
the same suit, or against both, touching the matters in question
in the original bill It is usually brought, either to obtain a
necessary discovery of facts in aid of the defence.of the original bill, or to obtain -full relief to all parties touching the
matters of the original bill. Young v Colt, 2 Blatchford,
373.
A cross-bill is a matter of defence, and is confined to the
matters in litigation in the original suit. If it brings before
the court other distinct matters and rights it is no longer entitled to be deemed a cross-bill, but is an original suit and no
decree, founded upon such matters, would be made upon tie
hearing of the cause. Gallatianv Cunnigam,8 Cow 361,
Wfalden v Bodl~y, 14 Pet. 156.
It is treated as an auxiliary suit, or as a dependency upon
the original suit. Slasom v Wright, 14 Vermont, 208, Cross
v De 3alle, 1 Wall. 5. And can be sustained only on matters
growing out of the original bill. Thompson v Shoemaker,
68 Illinois, 256, -Lundv. ,Sanes Bank, 96 Illinois, 181, Gage
v .Mayer,117 Illinois; 632, Daniel v -Morrwon,6 Dana, 182,
Crabtree v Banks, 1 Met. (Ky) 482, fSfason v Wright, 14

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellant.

Vermont, 208, Rutland v Paige,24 Vermont, 181, Ayers v
Carver, 17 How 591, Pmndall v Tevor, 30 Arkansas, 249,
Eve v -Louts, 91 Indiana, 457, Cartwright v Clark, 4 Met.
104, Kemp v .Mackrell,3 Atk. 812, Cross v. De VFalle, 1 Wall.
5, _Rubber Co. v Goodyear, 9 Wall. 807, The Dove, 91 U S.
381, 385.
No decree can be founded upon new and distinct matters
introduced by a cross-bill which were not embraced in the
original suit. May v Armstrong, 3 J J Marsh, 260, S. C.
20 Am. Dec. 137, -Danielv .orrison, 6 Dana, 186, Gallatian
v Cunningham, ub&sup., Field v Shzffelin, 7 Johns. Oh.
250, S. C. 11 Am. Dec. 441, Josey v Rogers, 13 Georgia, 478,
Andrews v Hobson, 23 Alabama, 219, Gouverneur v _Elmendof, 4 Johns. Oh. 357, GrJffith v 2ferr'dt, 19 N. Y 529.
II. The amendment to the cross-bill filed by leave of the
court after the hearing, and to support the decree, was not
germane either to the original bill or the cross-bill, as originally filed, and, by the introduction of new and distinct
charges and an additional and entirely new prayer for relief,
introduced into the cause issues not contemplated in either the
original bill or the original cross-bill, and the answers filed
thereto, and the court therefore erred in permitting the amendment to be filed and m founding its decree thereon.
An amendment will not be allowed at hearing, and much
less, after case is heard, which contains anything that will
prejudice or surprise defendant, or that will in anywise
change the issues. Aloshzerv _Knox College, 32 Illinois, 155,
Farwell v Meyer, 35 Illinois, 40, Hewitt v Dement, 57 Illinois, 500, 502, Booth v Wiley, 102 Illinois, 84, 100, Am.
Bible Society v Price, 115 Illinois, 623, 666, 7we Tremolo
Patent,23 Wall. 518, 527, Hardin v Boyd, 113 UL.S. 756,
Snead v- McCouil, 12 How. 407, Oglesby v. Attrill, 14 Fed.
Rep. 214, -Land Co. v Elkins, 20 Fed. Rep. 545.
If the courts below abuse their discretion in permitting
amendments at hearing, their action will be reviewed. eJefer son County v Ferguson, 13 Illinois, 33, 35, Mason v Bazr, 33
Illinois, 194, Booth v Wiley, 102 Illinois, 84, 100, Gordon v
Reynolds, 114 Illinois, 118, 123.

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. CHICAGO BANK. 285
Qpinion of the Court.

III. The cross-bill, as amended, is not germane to the original bill, and the court erred in founding a decree upon it as
amended.
This proposition is, of course, supported by all the authorities cited under first proposition, and by the authorities cited
under first branch of second proposition.
IV The decree is not supported by the evidence.
_MP Huntington W Jack-son and Mr John H. Thompson
for appellees.
. JusTiCoE BRnwrt, after stating the.case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.
M

Upon the facts can the validity of the decree requiring the
Milwaukee Company to pay to the bank, within a specified
time, the amounts of the two judgments held by it be successfully questioned 2 We think not. It would perhaps be difficult to point out any separate clause in the lease by which the
Milwaukee Company obligated itself to pay the judgment in
favor of the bank, and yet there is force in the contention that,
taken as a whole, the instrument casts this burden upon the
company A part of the subject matter of the contract was
claims against the Facific Company One recital is of the
foreclosure debt, immediately following is one of the existence of claims, some of which had been sued on and passed
into judgment and become liens, others still unliquidated,
followed by the recital that the purpose of this arrangement is
the redemption from said foreclosure sale, and the protection
of the property from all the aforesaid valid judgment liens.
Narrowly, the valid judgment liens referred to may include
only those already existing, mentioned in the preceding recitai,
or, broadly all valid judgment liens perfected on the claims
named m that recital, whether already in judgment or not. If
these were all the provisions, the narrow construction might
be preferred, but the further andexpress covenants of the
Milwaukee dompany were to pay and discharge fully the proposed indebtedness of $3,000,00.0, and to return at the end of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

lease, to the lessor, the demised property Does not this indicate that the understanding and intent were that the Milwaukee
Company should discharge all judgment liens founded upon
existing claims, whether such liens had already been perfected,
or should be created in subsequent suit? A judgment after a
lease does not of its own right defeat the lease, or deprive the
lessee of his interest and possession, but it operates against
the lessor, and whatever interest, great or small, is retained
in the leased premises. The purpose of this stipulation was not
the protection of the lessee, but of the lessor. It was not that
the lessee should be able to retain and enjoy the possession
during the terms of the lease, but that the property should be
freed from all burdens, so that at the termination of the. lease
the lessor might retake and enjoy it. The scope of the contract was not the payment of the debts of the lessor, for a
mere debt, never passing into judgment, casts no burden upon
the interest of lessor or lessee in the property, and the removal of all burdens was apparently the intent of the contracting parties. But again, the express lien on the lessor's
property amounted only to about $1,100,000, yet, by the
arrangement, a new lien was created from which nearly
$3,000,000 was received, all of which sum passed into the
hands of the lessee. Will not equity, for the payment of the
debts of the lessor, follow this surplus into the hands of the
lessee 9 Can a corporation in debt transfer its entire property
by lease, so as to prevent the application of the property, at
its full value, to the satisfaction of its debts 2 Central .Railroad v Pettus, 113 U S. 116, 124 Mellen v. Moline 1on Works,
131 U S. 352, 366. We do not care to pursue an inquiry into
this question at length, or consider what. limitations would
surround this doctrine as applied generally, preferring to notice a single matter, which is significant and decisive. The
contracting parties arranged not merely for the discharge of
the foreclosure lien, but for the completion of the road for
which the lessor's franchise was granted. The lessee not only
performed these stipulations, but with moneys arising from
the sale of these bonds built, for its own benefit, a bridge
across the Mississippi River, connecting tins road with its line

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. CHICAGO BANK. 28 7
Opinion of the Court.

m Iowa, and thus making a continuous line of road to Omaha.
Neglecting to pay the debts of the lessor, it appropriated a
large amount of the proceeds of the trust deed upon the lessor's
property to its own benefit, and the improvemeiit of its own
property Here clearly was a diversion of funds, which the
creditors of the lessor might follow in equity This is only the
application of familiar doctrine. The properties of a corporation constitute a trust fund for the payment of its debts,
and, when there is a misappropriation of the funds of a corporation, equity, on behalf of the creditors of such corporation,
will follow the funds so .diverted. The Milwaukee Company,
from securities on the property of the Pacific Company,
received nearly three millions of dollars, part it used for the
benefit of the lessor company, and part it appropriated to its
own benefit. Can it do this, and let the lessor company's debt
go unpaid 2 Equity answers this question in the negative, and
such was the ruling of the circuit judge. 26 Fed. Rep. 820.
Entertaining no doubt upon these matters, we pass to the
consideration of certain questions of equity pleadings and procedure and evidence upon- which the counsel for appellant
largely. relies. It will be remembered that after its redemption from sale under the Tabor judgment, the bank, following
the provisions of the statute, advertised the property for sale
on the execution issued upon its own judgment. The railroad
companies filed their bill in equity in the Oircuit Court to
restrain such sale. The bank, besides its answer, filed a crossbill, which, after- setting out the facts, prayed that its judgment might be decreed a valid equitable lien and encumbrance
upon the property' of the Pacific Company; that a receiver
might be appointed, with power .to -apply the revenues to the
judgment, and that the property be sold in satisfaction
thereof, and for general relief. It is objected that such crossbill was not germane to the original bill, and was, therefore,.
improperly filed. The case of -RailroadConpanwesv. Okamberlazm, 6 Wall. 748, fully answers this objection. In that case
a bill was filed to set aside the judgment. One of the defendant , owner of the- judgment, filed a cross-bill, praying
that the judgment might be decreed a valid lien, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

property sold to satisfy it. The court dismissed both bills, the
latter on the ground that the former having been dismissed on
its merits, the latter could not be maintained, because the parties litigating were both citizens of the same State. This last
ruling was reversed by this court, Mlvr. Justice Nelson, deliveriug the opinion, saying "We think that the court erred in
dismissing the cross-bill. It was filed for the purpose of enforcing the judgment, which was li the Circuit Court, and
could be filed in no other court, and was but ancillary to and
dependent upon the original suit -an appropriate proceeding
for the purpose of -obtailfing satisfaction." In that case the
original bill was to set aside a judgment- here, to restrain an
execution sale under a judgment, but this difference does not
affect the principle. Where in a court of equity an apparent
legal burden on property is challenged, the court has jurisdiction of a cross-bill to enforce by its own procedure such burden. The court which denies legal remedies may enforce
equitable remedies for the same debt, and an application for
the latter is not foreign to a bill for the former.
Again, it is objected that an amendment to the cross-bill
was allowed at the hearing, which changed the nature of the
issues, and was therefore improper. This is the most serious
question in the case. The amendment conformed the crossbill to the proofs, and was in accord with the view of the
law applicable to the facts, as indicated by the circuit judge,
and as already approved by us m the fore part of this opinion, but it did work a change in the ground upon which
relief was sought. The cross-bill, as originally framed, relied
upon the fact that by redemption from the foreclosure sale
by the mortgagor, the lien of the foreclosure decree was
wholly removed, leaving the Tabor judgment as a first lien
upon the property, that, by the redemption from the sale
under the Tabor judgment, the bank became possessed of that
lien, and that, holding that lien and its own judgment lien,
it was entitled to enforce those liens in equity if not by
execution at law The misappropriation of a part of the
proceeds of the $3,000,000 of bonds by the Milwaukee Company was not distinctively or separately alleged or counted on

CHICAGO -&c. RAILWAY CO. v. CHICAGO BANK.

289

Opimon of the Court.

as the basis of relief. The amendment introauced tns matter
into the cross-bill, but the fact was distinctly stated in the
original bill filed by the .railroad companies, for it alleged
"that said lessee, with the means provided by the execution
of said -last-named trust deed and bonds, and the proceeds
of the sale. thereof, by and with the consent of your orator,
the Chicago and Pacific RAilroad Company, has -completed
the construction of the entire road authorized by its charter,
from the city of Chicago to. the Mississippi River, and has
also cQnstructed a bridge across the Mississippi River at or
near Savanna.'
And proof* of this was given by the railroad compaies in .their evidence. The fact was thus -developed by the railroad compames, both by their bill and their
proofs, and the amendment to the cross-bill was simply to
enable the cross-complainant to avail itself of what had been
alleged and proved by the original. complainants. So, although
thereby was presented ainew and independent basis of relief,
we think it must be held that there was no error m permitting the cross-complainant to avail itself of the fact thus
furnished by its adversaries.
It is also objected that after this amendment, thus introducing new issues, the defendants to the cross-bill asked le:ve
to file an answer thereto, which was denied, but the answer
which was teirdered contained no defence to the matter thus
presented. It averred in substance that the -Milwaukee Company had expended upon the road of the Pacific Company
more than the entire proceeds of the $3,000,000 of bonds, to
wit, about $1,000,000, but it contained no denial, of the fact
that it had. used, as alleged, -a part of the -proceeds of the
bonds in the congtruction of the bridge across the Mississippi
River, in other words, it sought to. excuse its misappropriation of a part of the proceeds of those. securities by the fact
that it had afterwards spent a large amount of its own
money m improving the property of the Pacific Company,
But that did not excuse the misappropriation, or release it
from liability therefor. The misappropriation gave to the
bank, at the time at which it was made, the rigbt to pursue
the misappropriated -proceeds.into the hands of the Milwaukee
VOL. CXxxV-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmion of the Court.

Company That right the Milwaukee Company could not
thereafter defeat by spending money on the property of the
Pacific Company; and it was unnecessary to enter into any
inquiry as to the reasons for this subsequent expenditure, or
as to how far the necessities of its own business on the through
line from Chicago to Omaha compelled further improvements
on that portion of the line east of the Mississippi :River.
Still again, it is objected that there was no testimony showing how much of the proceeds of these bonds was expended
in the construction of the bridge across the Mississippi River.
The original bill alleged that the bridge was constructed out
of the proceeds of these bonds, and it might almost be assumed that the construction of a bridge across such a great
river would cosf far more than the amount of the bank's
claims. But further in the hearing, the president of the
Pacific Company (who is also the counsel in this case) was
examined as a witness, and testified as to the construction of
the bridge out of the proceeds of these bonds, that the Pacific Company had parted with all its property and had no
earnings or income, that it was impossible for him to give
any detailed statement of the manner in which the proceeds
of the $3,000,000 of bonds was expended, and that he did
not know whether any of the employds of either company
could furnish such statement. Inasmuch, therefore, as the
original bill alleged the.construction of this bridge out of the
proceeds of these bonds, as the answer to the amendment to
the cross-bill did not deny the fact of such misappropriation,
or aver that it was less than the amount of complainant's
claims, and as the principal officer of the Pacific Company
was unable to tell how much was thus expended, and did not
know of any one who could furnish the information, we do
not -think the court erred in assuming that the amount of
such misappropriation was in excess of the bank's claims, and
rendering a decree accordingly
We see no error in the record and.the decree is therefore
Afflmed.

