OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

NORTH CAROLINA v. TEMPLE.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 392. Argued January 22, 23, 1890. -Decided

March 3, 1890.

This suit was commenced against the State of North Carolina and against
the auditor of that State, as'defendants, to compel the levying of a special tax for the benefit of certain 'holders of its bonds; Held,
(1) That the suit against the auditor was, under the circumstances, virtually a suit against the State;
(2) That, on the authority of Hans v. Louisiana,ante, 1, the suit could
not be maintained against the State.

THIS suit was commenced in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of North Carolina by bill in
equity filed by Alfred H. Temple, a citizen of lNdrth Carolina,
on behalf of himself and other bondholders in like interest,
against the State of North Carolina and William P Roberts,
the auditor of said state. The object of the bill was to compel said state and its officlal , including the auditor, to execute
and carry intc'effect a certain statute of the State, passed
January 29, 1869, which provided for raising. taxes to pay the
interest on certain bonds of the state, called "special tax bonds
of the state of North Carolina," Laws of 1868-1869, 67, c. 21,
issued under the provisions of said act, and held by the plaintiff and others. Iii other words, it was a suit, in the nature of
a bill for a specific performance of a contract, brought to compel the State of North Carolina to raise a tax for the payment
of the arrears of interest due on the state bonds held by the
plaintiff and others.
The act referred to authorized a subscription on the part of
the State of $4,000,000 of the capital stock of The Wilmington, Charlotte and Rutherford Railroad Company, and the
issue of state Ionds for the payment thereof, payable thirty
years after date, with interest at six per cent per annum, payable semi-annually, to be represented by coupons. The subscription yvas made and 3000 of the bonds, for $1000 each,

NORTH CAROLIlA v. TEMPLE.
Statement of the Case.

were issued, of which the bonds of the plaintiff, which constitute the ground of the present suit; are a part.
By the sixth section of the act it was provided as follows
"SEo. 6. For the purpose of providing for the payment of
the interest upon the bonds hereby authorized and the principal at its maturity, an annual tax of one-eighth of one per
cent is hereby imposed upon all the taxable property of the
state, which shall be levied, collected, and paid into the state
treasury as other public taxes, and the surplus, after paying
the interest, shall, be invested in securities of the United States
or other safe securities and kept as a sinking fund for the payment of the principal money at maturity"
The bill alleged that the plaintiff was the bona ftde holder
of ten of said bonds, (giving their numbers,) and that the overdue coupons attached thereto, unpaid, amounted to $9900,
that in the year 1869 the collection of the special tax was duly
made, and a portion of the coupons was paid,, but that in the
month of January, 1870, and while large amounts of money
arising from the collection of the 'special tax aforesaid remained in the hands of tho state treasurer, applicable to the
payment of said coupons, the State of North Carolina, in violation of the Constitution of the United States, did by legislative resolution direct the appropriation of the said moneys.
then in the hands of the treasurer to other purposes, and that,
after all of said 3000 bonds had'been issued according to law,
the State of North Carolina undertook to impair the obligation of the cntract, and to that end, on the 20th of January,
1870, formally enacted the following resolution..
".Resolved, That the treasurer be instructed and directed not
to pay any more interest on the special tax bonds until authorized and directed so to do by this general assembly"
That to the same end, upon the 8th of March, 1870, Laws
of 1869-1870, 119, c. 71, the State also passed an act declaring as follows
"SEfOWO
1. The General Assembly of .NortL, 6jrolica do
enacdt, That all acts passed at the last session of this legislature making appropriations to railroad companies be, and the
same ar6 hereby, repealed, that all bonds of the State which

OCTOBER TERM; 1889.Statement of the Case.

have been issued under the said acts now m the hands of any
president or other officer of the corporation be immediately
returned to the treasurer.
"SEc. 2. The moneys in the state treasury which were levied
and collected under the provisions of the acts mentioned in
section one of this act are hereby appropriated to the use of
the state government, and shall be credited to the counties of
the State upon the tax to be assessed for the year one thousand
eight hundred and seventy, in proportion to the amounts collected from them, respectively"
That with the same view, upon the 23d of November, 1874,
Laws of 1874-1815, 2, c. 2, the general assembly passed an
act containing the following provisions.
"SEc. 2. That the treasurer shall not pay or discharge any
claim for interest upon any portion of the bonded debt of this
State, e.cept as hereinafter provided for by law
"SEc. 3. That the auditor shall not audit or recogmize any
claim for principal or interest upon any portion of the bonded
debt of this State heretofore made or pretended to be made by
authority of this State, except as hereafter provided for by
law
"Svc. 4. That any money in or which may -be paid into the
treasury on account of special taxes heretofore levied for the
payment of the interest on bonds or pretended bonds of this
state is hereby transferred and appropriated to the general
fund."
That in like connection, on the third day of November, 1880,
the following constitutional amendment was adopted by the
State
"Nor shall the general assembly assume or pay or authorize
the collection of any tax to pay, either directly or indirectly,
expressed or implied, any debt or bond incurred or issued by
authority of the convention of the year 1868, or any debt or
bond incurred or issued by the legislature of the year 1868., at its
special session of 1868, and at its regular session of 1868 and 1869
and 1870, except the bonds issued to fund the interest of the
public debt, unless the purposing to pay the same shall have
been submitted to the people or by them ratified, by the vote

NORTH CAROLINA v. TEMPLE.
Statement of the Case.

of a majority of qualified voters of the State at a regular election held for that. purpose."
The bill further alleged that since the 20th day of January,
1870, none of the coupons belonging to said bonds, which had
fallen due, had been, 'paid, though payment of the same had
been duly demanded, that the above-mentioned special taxes
had not been collected,- that none of the contracts performable under said act of , anuary 29, 1869, had been performed,
and that the government of the State had congtantly enforced
upon its officials compliance with the subsequent nullifying
enactments above set forth.
The bill.then averred that by virtue of the provisions of the
constitution of North Carolina and of the said act of the general assembly-of January, 1869, and of the issue of bonds thereunder, a contract was constituted between the -State and the
holders of said bonds, which was in.the same connection a
contract executed by said State, by the levying of the tax and
the committing of its collection to state taxing officials and
the direction to other state -officials for the regular. payment
of the coupons and the investment of the surplus arising
from the taxes in good securities, to be kept as a sinking fund
for the -payment of the principal.
It further averred that the statutes of North Carolina, here'mbefore set forth, which attempted to impair the contract in
question, had not taken legal, effect for the reason that the
said laws were violations of the Constitution of the 'United
States, both in its contract clause and in the Fourteenth Amendment thereto.
After, showing the manner of levying taxes in North Carolina, and several matters as grounds of equitable jurisdicton,
the bill prayed, amongst other things, that the respondent
be perpetually enjoined from obstructing or impeding the collection and payment of the special tax in question, and that
the respondent, the State of North Carolina, its executive,
agents and officials, and William P Roberts, the auditor of
the state, be decreed to execute the said act of January 29,
1869, and to cause the proper statutory lists to be sent to the
boards of county commissioners containing provisions for the
special tax above described, and for general relief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

A subpcena was issued, and served upon the governor,
attorney general, and auditor of the state.

The attorney gen-

eral, on behalf of the State, filed a motion to dismiss the bill as
against the State, alleging that the State did not consent to be
a party defendant. The auditor filed a demurrer to the bill,
on the ground that by the showing of the bill itself he had no
personal interest in the matters complained of, and that the
bill was against him in his official capacity only, and required
him as an officer of the state to act contrary to the commands of the legislature of the state, in raising money by
taxation.
On the main question, the circuit judge and the district
judge, who held the court, were opposed m opinion, the opinion
of the former being in favor of the complainant, in pursuance
of which the following decree was made, to wit.
"This cause coming on to be heard, the parties named as
defendants thereto, by their counsel, announce to the court
that they will not farther plead or answer thereto, but will
abide, the one by its motion and the other by his demurrer;
that they also waive the taking of any account in regard to
the coupons alleged by the plaintiff to be by him held.
"Whereupon it is declared by the court that the said State
of North Carolina is indebted to the said Alfred H. Temple
for coupons held by him as in- his bill alleged, and now by him
deposited with the clerk of this court to the amount of nine
thousand nine hundred dollars, principal money, together with
five thousand five hundred and forty-five dollars for interest
due thereon up to the present term of this court, and also for
interest upon said principal money until paid, which amounts
the-said State is hereby adjudged and decreed to pay to the
said Temple.
"And it is further ordered that the said William P Roberts,
as auditor of the State of North Carolina, proceed in due
course of his office to execute the provisions of the act passed
by said State on the 29th of January, 1869, entitled IAn act
to amend the charter of the Wilmington, Charlotte and Rutherford Railroad Company, to provide for the completion of
said road, and to secure for the State a representation in this

NORTH CAROLINA v. TEMPLE.
Argument for Appellee.

company,' so far as such execution may be necessary to satisfy
this decree."
The point on which the judges differed was stated as
follows
"It appearing to the bourt that the case made in the
record against Roberts as auditor,, etc., was merely incidental
to that against the State of North Carolina, it occurred as a
question -

"iWhether such suit cc ald be maintained in this court against
said State by the complainant, he being one .of the citizens
thereof.
"Upon which question the opinions of the judges were
opposed, His Honor Judge Bond being of opinion that it.was
so maintainable, and His Honor Judge Seymour being of opinion to the contrary
"Whereupon the above question was, during the same 'term
stated as above, ufider the direction of the judges, and certified,
and such certificate ordered to be entered of record."
r 1R.
Battle and .MP' John 1Y Graham for appellants.
.
X1r T. F .Davtdon,Attorney General of the State of North
Carolina, and -M T/wmas Th ffn were with them on the
brief.
Mr S. F Phillvhps for appellee. It is not practicable to
give more than the points of -Mr.Phillips's argument, with the
citations.
I. By the common law the English Crown is obliged, at the
instance of a subject or an alien friend, to refer to the regular
courts for hearing and determination whatever issues upon
rights of property may have been raised on behalf of suoh
parties by its own act, in case these issues would have been o
referable if raised by act of a private person.
Such instance is by means of a petition of right by which
the suppliant sues to the Crown for such an endorsement
thereupon as will allow his case a hearing and determination
in the regular courts of justice, in the same manner as (at
first in fact, and so long as original -rits were used, m

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellee.

theory) he would have sued to him for process allowing like
hearing and determination against a private person, supposing
his cause of action had been against the latter, such favorable
endorsement being at the same time as much ex debitojustitiwv
in the one case as the original writ would have been m the
other.
The practical operation of that proceeding is such that if
the coupons now in suit had been taken from bonds issued in
1869 by the British government, and payment thereof had
been refused, the Crown would be obliged by the common
law, upon application of this citizen of North Carolina, to
allow to him the right of a suit in its regular courts against
itself to enforce his claim. If the common law be otherwise
in America the general belief that our citizens are in matters
of right more upon an equality with their own governments
than English subjects (or indeed than such citizens themselves)
are with the English Crown may require revision. The Queen
v Von Frantzin, 2 DeG. & J 126, Windsor & Annapolis -Railway v The Queen, 11 App. Cas. 607, The Queen v Doutre, 9
App. Cas. '745, Thomas v The Queen, L. 1. 10 Q. B. 31, Tobbn
v The Queen, 16 C. B. (N. S.) 310, Featherv The Queen, 6 B.
& S. 257, Canterburyv The Attorney General,1 Phillips, Ch.
306, -Honokton v The Attorney General, 2 Macn. & Gord.
402, D)e Bode v The Queen, 3 'H. L. Cas. 449, Frzth v The
Queen, L. R. 7 Ex. 365, 1?ustomjee v The Queen, 2 Q. B. D.
69, ZIirk v The Queen, L. R. 14 Eq. 558. See, also, Chitty's
Prerogatives of the Crown, 345, 2 Inst. 269, 3 Inst. 31, 4
Inst. 21, 3 BI. Com. 49, Bowyer Coust. Law Eng. 141, Broom
Const. Law, 509, Daniell Ch. Pl. and Pr. ed. 1846, c. 84, ยง 2,
Manning, Exch. Pr. 84, ed. 1827, Banker's Case, 14 State
Trials, 1-, 2 Stubbs' Const. Hist. 555, 557, Pet ton of Right,
3 State Trials, 60 to 230, Ashby v Wfaste, 14 State Trials, 695,

sm'it v

Upjton, 6 M.

& G. 251, Mirror of Justices, 4, 10, 225.

II. The forms by which creditors of the Crown are referred
to courts of justice correspond substantially with those of the
like reference in cases betwixt subjects.
Petition of Right is sometimes spoken of as if it were a
form of proceeding that in point of principle is entirely unlike

NORTH CAROLINA v. TEMLE.
Argument for Appellee.

those ordinarily in use by litigants m England, ez. gr., that
by original writ. It is submitted that this assunption is not
correct.
In the same way application to the king for justice against
himself is a "petition," a short endorsement upon which
opens the courts to the plaintiff for the case to which that
endorsement refers, substantially in the same manner as is
done in ordinary cases, either by the king's original writ in
answer to an oral application or "petition" or by a bill and
subpoena.
That the application, or supplication, by petition of right is
made to the king in person, whereas ordinary applications
for original process are to his subordinates (the allowance in
all oases being equally ex debito ustitim) is explained by the
circumstance that the class of cases in which he himself was
to be defendant has never been so large as to prevent his personal attention to applications for original process in that. So
that the issue of such process in that class is seen to be a survival from the time when the king issued all process, and not
as sometimes, and perhaps without much consideration suggested, an abnormal provision of English law
Thus it
is seen that the proceeding by petition of right is, even in
point of form, analogous to the ordinary methods. of beginmng suits, and that it is in his character as the original Fountain of Justice, and by way of mere survival from his former
vast duties, in that character and of the same sort, that the
kng acts therein.
III. By passing a law which impairs the obligation of a
contract of its own, or by depriving the other party of his
property therein without due process, a State becomes subject
to the judicial power of the United States for whatever relief
judicial power ordinarily exerts to establish and give effect to
violated contracts.
IV The act of 1875, c. 13'7, investing circuit courts with
jurisdiction over "all suits of a civil nature at common law,
or in equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of
costs, the sum or value, of five hundred dollars and arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States" has

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opimon. Harlan, J.

thereby conferred upon these courts judicial power to enforce
the obligation of contracts of a State of that value when
impaired by its own laws.
V Inasmuch as laws passed by the State of North
Carolina, Resolution of Jan. 20, 1870, Act of 1870, c. 71,
Mffarch 8, Act of 1874, c. 2, Nov 23, and a constitutional
amendment adopted in 1880, Const. art. 1, sec. 6, impair
obligations of that State created in 1869, by issuing the
coupons now in suit, and deprive the holders of such coupons
of property without due process of law, the opinion of the
presiding judge below was correct.
.fr Edward I. Andrews also argued for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opimon of the court.
We think it perfectly clear that the suit against the auditor
in this case was virtually a suit against the State of North
Carolina. In this regard it comes within the principle of the
cases of Lougmana,v Jumel, 107 U. S. 711, Cunningham v
Macon & Brunswwk Railroad Co., 109 U. S. 446, Hagood v Southern, 117 U. S.52, and In re Ayers, 123 U. S.
443. We do not think it necessary to consider that question
anew
The other point, the suability of bhe State, is settled by the
decision just rendered in Hansv The State of Loumsana,ante, 1.
To the question on which the judges of the Circuit Court
were opposed in opinion, our answer is in the negative,
namely, that the suit could not be maintained in the Circuit
Court against the State of North Carolina by the plaintiff, a
citizen thereof.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Reversed and the cause remanded with snstructions to dismiss the bill of comrflaznt.
MR. JUSTiCE

HARLA-

dissenting.

I dissent from so much of the judgment in this case as holds
that this suit cannot be maintained against the auditor of

