OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Names of Counsel.

Savwngs Bafit v United States, 19 Wall. 227, 240, Zfing v
United States, 99 IT. S. 229, fagar v Reclamation JDwtrzct
1176. 1, 111 U S. 701, Daidson v New Orleans, 96 I S. 97,
Walston v Nevin, 128 U S. 578, 581.
The motion to dismiss t]te writ of error is denied, and the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylva'nais affirmed.

CHrSTER CITY v. PENNSYLVAIA.

Error to the Supreme Court

of the State of Pennsylvania. No. 1498. Submitted January 27,
1890. Decided March 10, 1890. Motions were made in this case
similar to those made in Bell's Gap Railroad Co. v Pennsylvania.
MR. JUSTWE BRADLEY delivered the opimon of the court.

This

case, so fax as any federal question is concerned, is similar, in all
substantial respects, to that of Bell's Gap Railroad Co. v Pennsylvana, just decided, an& must be governed by the decision m that
case.
The motion to dismiss the writ of error is denied, and the judgment
of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvaniais affirmed.
Mr James W M. iVewlin for the plaintiff in error.
Hr William S. Kirkpatnek and Mr John F Sanderson for de-

fendant in error.
Mr M. E. Olmsted and Mr Wayne Me Veagh, on behalf of W
W Jennings, plaintiff in error in No. 1242, Mr W B. Lamberton and Mr George R. Korcher, on behalf of the North Pennsylvania Railroad Company, defendant in error in No. 1556,. and Mr
X. B. Olmsted, on behalf of the Delaware Division Canal Company, The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway Company,
The New York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad Company, The
Clearfield Bituminous Coal Corporation, The Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad Company, and The Lehigh Valley
Railroad Company, filed briefs entitled in Bell's Gap Railroad Co.
v Pennsylvania and City of Chester v. Pennsylvania.

DEPUTRON v. YOUNG.
Syllabus.

DEPUTRON v. YOUNG.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES. FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 1151. Submitted January 6,1890. -Decided

March 10, 1890.

An averment of diverse citizenship by the plaintiff, nfcessai to confer a
e taken as
jurisdiction, not being controverted by the defendant, in
true under the practice in the courts 9f Nebraska.
When the jurisdictional allegations of the plaintiff are not traversed by the
defendant, no question Involving the capacity of the parties to litigate
in the federal courts can be raised before the jury, or treated as within
the issues they are empanelld to determine.
The objection, under section 5, of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 1-7, 18 Stat.
472, that parties to a suit have been improperly or collusively made or
joined for the purpose of creating a case cognizable under the act,
should be taken at the first opportunity; and delay in its presentation
will be considered in examining into the grounds upon which it is
alleged to rest.
A suit cannot properly be dismissed by.a Circuit Court, as. not involving a
controversy within the jurisdiction of the court, unless the facts, when
made to appear on the record, create a legal certainty of that conclusion..
In Nebraska a tax deed, not executed by the county treasurer under his
seal of office, is void.
In Nebraska a tax deed, though void on its face, is sufficient color of title
to support an adverse possession to the property therein described.
The adverse possession which bars a recovery in an action of ejectment
must be continuous, uninterrupted, open, notorious, actual, exclusive
and adverse.
'Where the rightful owner of real estate is in the actual occupancy. of a part
-of his tract, he is in the constructive and legal possession and seisin of
the whole, unless he is disseised by actual occupation and dispossession;
and where the possession is mixed, the legal seisim is according to the
legal title.
A power from an owner of real estate authorizing the donee to make and
execute deeds to convey the real estate to purchasers, as the same may
be sold to such purchasers in tracts by a third party who- acts under a.
contract with the donor of the power, is a naked power to convey as
sales may be made, and a deed made by the donee, to a person Who was
not such a purchaser is a fraud upon the power.
In the case of a naked power not coupled with an interest, every prerequisite,
to the exercise of that power should precede it.
In Nebraska the title of a purchaser at an executive sale depends not alone
VOL. CXXXIV-16

