OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

doing business when such suits may be begun." 22 Stat.
162, 163, c. 290, see. 4.
But counsel for -complainant claims that the Circuit Court
had jurisdiction under §§ 5209 and 5239 of the Revised Statutes. Section 5209 prescribes punishment for the embezzlement, abstraction, or wilful misapplication of any of the moneys, funds, or credits of a national banking association, by any
president, director, cashier, teller, clerk, or agent thereof, and
for other acts done without authority of the directors with
intent to defraud the bank; and section 5239 provides for a
suit by the Comptroller of tho Currency to forfeit the franchises of national banks tor the intentional violation by their
directors, or the intentional permission by them of such violation by any of the officers,-agents, or servants of the association, of any of the provisions of the title of the Revised Statutes relating to national banks. This bill obviously cannot be
retained by reason of anything contained in those sections.
As the Ciro&it Court had no jurwdicton, but dismissed the
bill upon another ground, we reverse -its decree, 'unt. a
direction to disms the bill for want ofJumsditwn.

BROWN v. LAKE SUPERIOR IRON COMPANY
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
i'io. 227. Argued and submitted March 24, 1890.- Decided April 7, 1890.

An insolvent corporation, with large properties scattered in different States,
having, for the purpose of keeping those properties together as a whole,
assented to the filing of a creditors' bill by three creditors, (the debts of
two of them not having matured and no execution having been Issued on
that of the third,) and having assented to the appointment of a recelver
under that bill, and having for nine months lain inactive while the receiver was managing the property and assuming liabilities in reducing it
to possession, cannot at the expiration of that time, whed the great
majority of its creditors have become parties to the suit, and its property is about to be ratably distributed by the court among all its creditors,

BROWN v. LAKE SUPERIOR IRON CO.
Opinion of the Court.
interpose the objection .of want of jurisdiction on the ground that a
court of equity could not obtain jurisdiction when the plaintiff's creditors
had plain, adequate and complete remedies at the common law, or that
their debts had not been converted into judgments, or that no execution.
had issued and been returned nulla bon-whatever weight might have
been given to those defences if interposed in the first instance.
The maxim that "he who seeks equity must do equity" is applicable to
the defendant as well as to the complainant.
3ood faith and early assertion of rights are as essential on the part of
a defendant in equity as they are on the pat.t of the complainant.

IN EQurrY. The case is stated in the opimon.
Mr .enry Crawford, for appellant, submitted on 'his brief.
.Mr Francts J Wing and iMr C. C. Baldwzn for ap:
pellees. Mr Samuel Shellabarger,_Mr J X. Wilson and -Mr
C. D. Hine were also on the brief with _Mr Baldwin.
MiL

JUSTiE

BREwER delivered the opinion of the court.

On February 20, 1883, two of the appellees, the Lake Superior Iron Cp, pany and the Jackson Iron Company, together with Ahe Negaunee Concentrating -Company, filed
their bill again t the appellant, in the Circuit Court of the
United States f~r the Northern District of Ohio. The appellant was a c rporation, created under the laws of the State of
Ohio, and ech of the complainants was a creditor; two holding claims Jevidenced by notes not then due, and the other,
the Negaunee Concentrating Company holding a judgment.
The prayer of the bill was for the appointment of a receiver
to take charge 'ofthe property and assets of the defendant,
and for such other and further relief as was proper. On the
same day the defendant entered its appearance, and accepted
service of notice of a motion for the appointment of a receiver, and Fayette Brown was thereupon, immediately, appointed receiver. On the next day subpoena was served on
the defendant. On March 28 a supplemental bill was filed
making other parties defendants, and on June 14-an order pro
confesso was entered against all of the defendants in the
original and supplemental bills. On April 23 an order was

OCTOBER TERM, 1889
Opinion of the Court.

entered directing all creditors to file their claims by petition,
and on October 20 nearly every creditor had appeared and
filed his petition. -On July 17 an order was entered appointing a special master to report on the claims of creditors and
marshal the liens thereof.
Up to the 23d of November, the appellant made no opposition to the proceeding, and apparently assented to the action
which was being taken by the creditors, looking to the appropriation of its property to the payment of their claims.
On that day a change took place in its attitude towards this
suit. It went into the state courts and confessed judgment
in behalf of several of its creditors, and on the 24th deposited
in the registry of the Circuit Court money enough to pay off
the judgment in favor of the Concentrating Company, and
filed two pleas -one setting forth the fact of payment, and
the other that the original and supplemental bills disclosed
that the complainants had a plain, adequate and complete
remedy at law, and that therefore the court, sitting as a
court of equity, had no jurisdiction, and praying a dismissal
of the bills. Subsequently, on December 18, it filed a motion
to discharge the receiver. This motion was overruled, the
pleas seem to have been -ignored, the master reported upon
the claims presented, and on February 23, 1886, the court
entered a decree which, finding the indebtedness to be as
stated by the master, also what property was in possession of
the receiver, decreed that upon default in the payment of
those debts the property be sold in satisfaction thereof. From
this decree the defendant has brought this appeal, and its
principal contention is, that the Circuit Court had no jurisdic
tion whatever over the subject matter of thQ suit, because it
appeared upon the face of the bills, original and supplemental,
that the ,complainants had a plain, adequate and complete
remedy at lawAs heretofore stated the bill showed that two of the complainants held claims not yet due, and the third only -a judgment with no execution The supplemental bill alleged that
execution had, since the filing of the original bill, been issued
.--that judgment, and returned nulla bona. The original

BROWN v. LAKE SUPERIOR IR ON CO
Opinon of the Court.

bill, besides disclosing the nature of complainants' claims, set
forth that they were proceeding not alone in their own behalf,
but in that of all other creditors, whose number was so great
as to make it nnpossible to join them as parties, it then
averred the insolvency of the defendant, that it was engaged
m large and various business, manufacturing and mining, that
its plant and good will were of great extent and value; and
that it employed operatives to the number of at least four
thousand, and then alleged as follows: " And your orators
further say that vexatious litigation has been commenced
against the said defendant, and many more such are threatened, and that such litigations are accompanied by aftachments
and seizures of property, and such threatened litigations will
also be accompanied by attachments and seizures, and that
such attachments and seizures will give to those creditors -who
are pursuing them undue and unfair advantage and priority
over your complainants, whose claims are not yet due, and
make them irreparable injury and damage, that if such litigations be further instituted and its property seized in attachment, as it already has been, there is great danger that the
valuable property of the defendant will be irreparably injured
and to a great extent dest-oyed, and your orators say that
such seizures and interference with the business and the property of the defendant would wholly destroy the value of the
good will of the company as an asset, and wholly break up its
long-established business, and thereby cause detriment and
irreparable injury to your orators and all other creditors.
And' your. orators further say that unless this court shall interfere and protect and preserve the property and assets of said
defendant by putting it into the hands of a receiver, the said
property will be in great danger of destruction and dissipation
by the large number of operatives who would necessarily be
discharged and left without work or means of obtaining it,
and such operatives, by reason of the great distrust they
already have and on account of a fear that they -will not in
future receive remuneration, will abandon their employment
and thereby cause a stoppage of the extensive business of saud
defendant, to the extent that the creditors of said defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

would not be able to realize one-half of the amount upon the
several claims that they would if the said business of the defendant were continued."
The appellees, while admitting the general rule to be that
creditors must show that they have exhausted legal remedies
before coming into a court of equity, insist that the bill disclosed a case in equity on two grounds First, that upon the
insolvency of a corporation-its properties become a trust fund
for the benefit of its creditors, which can be seized and disposed of by a receiver, and in equitable proceedings; and,
second, that the vast interests and properties of this corporation, with their threatened disintegration through several
attachment suits, justified the -interference of a court of equity
to preserve, for the benefit of creditors, that large value which
-resulted from the unity of the properties. In support of these
propositions counsel cite as especially applicable, Terry v
Anderson, 95 U. S. 628, Unibn Trust Co. v. JBlinow fidland
Raibway, 117 U. S.434, Sage v .emphs &o. Railroad,125
U. S. 361, M7kellen v. .foline from Works, 131 U. S. 352, Barbour v. Exchange Bank, 45 Ohio State, 133, Rouse, Trustee,

v. Bank, 46 Ohio State, 493.
But were it conceded that the bill was defective, that a
demurrer must have been sustained, and that the appellant,
if it had so chosen to act in the first instance, could have defended its possession, and defeated the action, still the decree
of the Circuit Court must be sustained. Whatever rights of
objection and defence the appellant had, it lost by inaction
and acquiescence. Obviously the proceedings had were with
its consent. Immediately on filing the bill it entered its
appearance, and the same day a receiver was- appointed, without objection on its part. It suffered the bills to be taken pro
confesso. It permitted the receiver to go on in the possession
of these properties for nine months, transacting large business,
entering into many contracts and assuming large obligations,
without any intimation of a lack of authority, or any objectio
to the proceedings. After a lapse of nine months, suddenly
its policy changed-it contested where theretofore it had
acquiesced, And this, not because of any restored solvency

BROWN v. LAKE SUPERIOR IRON

O0.

Op"lion of the Court.

or purpose to resume business, but with the evident intent to
prevent the equality among creditors which the, existing
equitable proceedings would secure, and to give preference to
certain creditors. For clearly it was-th& thought of the president of the corporation, himself the owner of a large majority
of its stock, whose management had wrought its financial ruin,
that after the setting aside of the equitable proceedings the
lien of the confessed judgments would attach, and thus those
favored creditors would be preferred.
So the case stands in this attitude. The corporation was
insolvent. Its extensive and scattered properties had been
brought into single ownership, and so operated together that
large benefit resulted in preserving the unity of ownership and
operation. 'Disintegration was threatened through separate
attacks, by different creditors, on scattered properties. The
preservation of this unity, with its consequent value, and the
appropriatio [ 6f the properties for the benefit of all the creditors equally, were matters deserving large consideration in
Certain creditors, acting "for all, initiated
any proper suit.
proceedings looking towards this end. In such proceedings
the corporation acquiesced. Substantially all of the creditors
came into the proceedings. After months had passed, much
business had been transacted and large responsibilities assumed, the corporation, for the benefit.of a few creditors and
to destroy the equality between all, comes in with the technical objection that the creditors initiating, the proceedings
should have taken one step more-at law before conung into
equity But the maxim, "He who seeks equity must do
equity," is as appropriate to the conduct of the defendant as\to
that of the complainant; and it would be strange if a debtor,
to destroy equality .and accomplish partiality, could ignore i
long acqmescence and plead an unsubstantial technicality t
overthrow protracted, extensive and costly proceedings carried
on in reliv ;ce upon its consent. Surelr no such imperfection
attends the administration of a court of equity Good -faith
and early assertion of rights are as essential on the part of the
defendant -as of the complainant. This matter has recently
been before this court, in Reynes v Dumont, 130 U. S. 354,

OCTOBER TERM, t889.
Opinion of the Court.

395, and was carefully considered, and the rule, with its limitations, thus stated "The rule as stated in 1 Daniais Chancery. Practice, 555, 4th Am. ed., is, that if the objection of
want of jurisdiction in equity is not taken in proper time,
namely, before the defendant enftrs into his defence at large,
the court, having the general j,.,risdiction; will exercise it, and
in a note on page 550, many cases are cited to establish that
' if a defendant in a suit in equity answers and submits to the
jurisdiction of the court, it is too late for him to object that
the plaintiff has a plain and adequate remedy at law This
objection should be taken at the earliest opportunity
The
above rule must be taken with the qualification that it is competent for the court to grant the relief sought, and that it has
jurisdiction of the subject matter.'
It was held ii
Lewts v Cocks, 23 Wall. 466, that if the court, upon looking
at the proofs, found none at all of the matters which would
make a proper case for equity, it would be the duty of the
court to recognize the fact and give it effect, though not raised
by the pleadings, nor suggested by counsel. To the same
effect is Oelmrchs v Spain, 15 Wall. 211. The doctrine of
these and similar cases is, that the court, for its own protection, may prevent matters purely cognizable at law from being
drawa into chancery at the pleasure of the parties interested,
but it by no means follows, where the subject matter belongs
to the class over which a court of equity has jurisdiction, and
the objection that the complainant has an adequate remedy at
law is not made until the hearing in the appellate tribunal,
th.-* the latter can exercise no discretion in the disposition of
sucli objection. Under the circumstances of this case, it comes
altogether too late, even though, if taken n lirnte, it might
have been worthy of attention." See also Rilbourn v Sunderland, 130 U S. 505, Unon Trust-Co. v Illmo's .Jlidland
Railwcy, 117 U. S. 434, 468.
Further comment is unnecessary The ruling of the Circuit
Court was cortet, and its decree is therefore
.Afflrmed.

