BLOUINT v. WALKER.
Syllabus.

ties to winch they are subjected. Under the statute of New
York all corporations, joint stock companies and associations
of the same lnd are subjected to the same tax. There is the
same rule applicable to all under the same conditions in determining the rate of taxation. There is no discrimination in
favor of one against another of the same class. See Badner v
Connolly;,113 U. S. 29, 32, Soon Hing v Crowley, 113 U. S. 703,
709, 7Missour, Pacific Railway v Hutlmes, 115 U. S. 512, 523,
-Missouri, Pac~fc Railway v- facby,. 127 U. S. 205, .209,
.Minneapolis Railway ( o. v Becewith, 129 U. S. 26, 32.
-R. IusTio, MILLER
THAILAw) dissenting.

(with whom conzurred MR. JUSTICE

MR. JUSTICE HIAiLAN and myself dissent from the judgment

m this case, because we think that, notwithstanding the peculiar language of the statute of New York, the tax in 'ontroversy is, in effect, a tax upon bonds of the United States held
by the insurance company..

BLOUNT v. WALKER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 1399. Submitted March 24, 1890. - Decided April 7, 1890.

A judgment by a state court of South Carolifia that 'the will of a resident
in Worth Carolina, who was the donee of apower to appoint, by win to
receive the fee of real estate in South Car6lina, after the expiration of a
life estate, was properly admitted to probate in North Carolina, as executed according to the laws of that State,. and was properly admitted to
probate in South Carolina by proof of an exemplified copy, though not"
executed according to the laws of that Stdte, but that the donor of the
power intended that the appointmnt should be made by a will valid under the laws of South Carolina, which this will was not, does not refuse
to give full faith and credit to the judgment of the court of North Carolina, admitting the will to probate.
To give this court urisdiction of a writ of error tp ja state court it must
appear affirmatively not only that a fedl*ral question was presented for
decision to the highest court of the-Stateliaving jurisdiction, but that its
t

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
decision was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it was
actually decided, or that the udgment as rendered could not have been
given without deciding it.
MOTION TO

ISMISS.

The court stated the case as follows

Sarah J Harris, a citizen of the State of South Carolina,
died at her residence in that State in December, 1885, leaving
a last will and testament bearing date September 11, 1885,
and, her surviving, an only child, Mrs. Mary D. Blbunt, whose
domicil was that of her husband, William H. Blount, in Wilson
County, in the State of North Carolina. -Mrs. Harris' next
nearest of kin was her sister, -Caroline S. Walker, mother of
Julius H. Walker. By. her will Mrs. Harris gave, bequeathed,
and devised her estate, :real and personal, which was all situated in South Carolina, to her nephew, Julius H. Walker,
(who was appointed executor,) in trust for Mary D. Blount
"for and during the term of her natural life," unless the trust
were sooner executed, as provided in an item of the will not
material to be considered here, and upon the death of Mrs.
Blount the estate was "bequeathed and devised to the issue of
the said Mrs. Blount, to them and their -heirs forever, _per
strjes and not per caita, and if the said Mrs. Blount die
without issue surviving her at the time of her death, then the
same is devised and bequeathed to such person or persons and
in such proportions as the said Mrs. Mary Delia Blount may
.qppauit by her last will and testament duly executed, to the
said appointees and their heirs forever." Mrs. Blount died at
her home in North Carolina, without issue, in April, 1886.
She left a will dated March 16, 1886, providing that "all my
estate, both real and personal, whether legal or equitable, I
devise bequeath and absolutely give unto my beloved husband, to his only use and behoof, and hereby direct the trustee
appointed by the last will and testament of my deceased
mother, Mrs. S. J Harris, of'Columbia, in the State of South
Carolina, to execute all such needful conveyances and releases
as may effectually divest his title as such trustee, and convey
the property and effects, to him devised by said last will of
Mrs. S. J Harris, to my said husband, W H. Blount, to him

BLOUNT v. WALKER.
Statement of the Case.

and his heirs absolutely" This will was duly .admitted to
probate in the Probate Court of Wilson County, North Carolina, on the 26th day of April, 1886, the order of that court
finding from the evidence of the subscribing witnesses that the
paper writing propounded "is the last will and testament of
M. Delia Blount, and that the same was duly executed by said
M . Delia Blount." Letters testamentary issued June 3,.and
an exemplification of the probate proceedings was duly filed
and admitted to probate in the proper Pr6bate Courtim South
Carolina, in accordance with the statute in that behalf, which
provided "If a will be .regulairly proved in any foreign
court, an exemplification of such will may be admitted to probate in this State upon the- exemplification and certificate of
the judge of the -court of probate-; and- the exemplification
shall also be evidence of the devise of land in this State where
the title of lands comes in question;" Gen. Stats..So. Car.-1882,
p. 549, ยง 1815.
William 1. Blount instituted an action on the equity side othe Court of Common Pleas in Richland County, South Carolina, against Juliug H. Walker, who had qualified as executor
and was in possession. as trustee, and Mrs. Caroline S. Walker,
settitig forth the deaths of Mrs.. Harris and -Mrs. Blount and
the wills, and claiming the entire estate of Mrs: Harris as
the appointee by Mrs. Blount's will; alleging demand upon
the trustee and executor, and refusal, "and demanding judgment -that he be adjudged to be the owner of said estate ,
that Walker be required to account, and for general relief.
Walker answered,.submitting, under the advice of counsel, the
questicn to.the court""whether the will of M. Delia Blount is
a valid execution of the power conferred upon her by the will
of Sarah T. -Harris,and whether said will of Mrs.'Blount has
been-duly executed so as to pass the property of said Sarah
J Harris in the hands of this - defendant." Mrs. Walker also
answered, claiming to be entitled -to the whole estate of Mrs.
Harris as her sole heir after the death -of Ms.. Blount, and
alleging that Mrs, Blount's will was not executed as required
by, the laws of South Carolina, and was noti therefbre, a valid
execution of.the power.
VOL.-CM

V-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

The cause was heard by the judge of the Court of Common
Pleas, who found, among other things, "that Mrs. Blount's
will was duly proved in the Probate Court of North Carolina,
in the county in.which she resided, and a proper exemplification under the laws of South Carolina was admitted to probate in Richland County on the 19th May, 1886. The Court
of Probate of North Carolina is, under the laws of North
Carolina, a court of general jurisdiction in all matters testamentary
The exemplification of the judgment of that
court, establishing this will, was properly proved according
to the acts of Congress. Mrs. Blount's will is not executed
according to the laws of South Carolina. The question to be
determined is whether Mrs. Blount's will is a valid execution
of the power contained in Mrs. Harris' will. It is conceded
in the argument, and is undoubtedly sound, that the appointee,
under a power like the one under consideration, takes. under
the instrument creating the power, and not under the instrument of appointment. And in this case Mrs. Harris' will
expressly conveys the property to the appointee under the
power. The only requisite required by Mrs. Harris' will for
the execution of this power, is that the same shall be by 'will
duly executed,' and in this case that formality has been complied with, aid is shown by the judgment of .the court of her
domicil." And it was "ordered, adjudged and decreed, that
the power is well executed, and the plaintiff is entitled to
the property set out in the complaint and in the hands of the
defendant Julius H. Walker."
Defendants appealed from this decree to the Supreme Court
of South Carolina, which on the 23d day of April, 1888,
reversed the judgment of the. Circuit Court. The court held
that the power was not well executed, for the reason that
Mrs. Harris had by her will conferred a power which the
donee could only exercise "by her last will and testament
duly executed;" which meant a will duly executed according
to the laws of S6uth Carolina, which this will was not, and
the court said. "This paper was doubtless a valid will in
North Carolina, sufficient to pass any property which Mrs.
Blount was entitled to in her own right in that Statei and any

BLOUNT v. WALKER.
Argument against the Motion to dismiss.

personal property which she owned anywhere, and was, therefore, no doubt, properly admitted to probate there, as well as
here, upon the exemplification under the statute. But the
question here is, not whether Mrs. Blount has made a will
disposing of her own property, but whether the paper propounded as such is a valid execution of the power conferred by
the will of Mrs. Harris, and for the reasons above stated We
do not think it is." Blount v W[alker, 28 So. Car. 545. The
cause was remanded, and subsequent proceedings taken in the
Court of Common Pleas, and another judgment rendered by
the Supreme Court upon the question of who was or were
entitled to take upon the failure of Mrs. Blount to make a valid
appointment, but it is not claimed here that any federal question arose thereon.
To the judgment of the Supreme Court a writ of error was
sued out from this court.
Mr Josepk .Dansel Pope and .Mr Robert Wf Sand for the
motion to dismiss.
.fA

Samuel Field Phillipsopposing.

Under Rev Stat. ยง 906, it was held. by this court that the
"faith and credit" spoken of are not limited to the form of the
record and are not satisfied by its admission as a record, but
that the same effect must be given to the record in the courts
of the State where produced as in the courts of the State from
which it is taken. .7ills v .Duryee, 7 Cranch, 481, Leland
v. Wilinson, 6 Pet. 317, Crapo v. Zelly, 16 Wall. 610.
The true test of jurisdiction over state courts is not whether
the record exhibits an express statement that a federal question was presented, but whether such a question was decided
and decided adversely to the federal right. The form and
mode in which it was decided are of minor importance.
Mutrray v Charleston, 96 U. S. 432.
In brief, our position is (1) That the decision of the state
court necessarily involved the question whether the will of
Mrs. Blount was her "last will and testament duly executed ;"

OCTOBER TERIM, 1889.
Opinion .of the Court.

(2) That the judgment of the probate court of North Carolina is conclusive of this, and that whether in the decision of
the state court it has given this judgment the same force and
effect as it has in North Carolina is the federal question.
And that it is immaterial whether the state court has decided
the judgment void, or evades a decision on the ground of
'construction.
\ The jurisdiction having attached, each party is
entitled to
be heard on the merits. As said by this -court ih Baltzmare
& 0w Railroad.v 3Maryland, 20 Wall. 643 "Where the
federal question has been, raised and has been decided against
plaintiff in error in a state court, jurisdiction of this court attaches and the case must be heard on the merits," although
the state court -placed its decision on another ground that
does not present a federal question. Both 'parties are entitled
to be heard in this; court on the soundness of the decsion of
the federal question, on its sufficiency to control the judgment
in the whole case, and on the sufficiency of any -other point
,decided to affirm the judgment, even if the federal question
was erroneously decided.
JusTIcE FULLER, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
M . CGIum

The federal question relied on-to sustain our jurisdiction
:that the Supreme Court of South Carolina did not give i
faith and credit to the judgment of the Probate Court of
Wilson County, North Carolina, adniitting Mrs. Blount's will
to probate.
We cannot see that any such question is presented by this
record. The Probate Court of Wilson County, North Carolina, had no jurisdiction to declare the will duly executed
"according to the laws of South Carolina," or that it was -a
good execution of the power of appointment, and did not
undertake to adjudge to that effect, and it is not denied that
-Mrs. BlouAt'8 will was not executed according to those laws.
The Supreme Court of- South Carolina did not refuse to the
judgment of the Probate Court of North Carolina full faith

BLOUNT v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

and credit. It assumed that the will was properly admitted
to probate in North Carolina,. as well as in South Carol ina, by
an exemplification thereof, under the statute to that effect in
the latter State, but it held that When, Mrs; Harris prescribed.
the mode in which the power of appointment should be exercised, by the use of the words "by her last will and testament
duly executed," she. intended- a will duly- executed according
to the laws of South Carolina, and. not a will duly executed
according to the laws of any.State or country in which the
donee of the power, Mrs. Blount, nught happen to be domiciled
at the time of her death. The probate of 'Mrs. Blount's will
in North Carolina established that the will was executed according to the law of the State where .she was domiciled, but
it did not establish that the will was executed according .to
the law of South Carolina, as it is conceded it was Dot. 'When,
therefore, the Supreme Court of South Carolina, in construing
Mrs. Harris' will, arrived at the conclusion that the estate of
the latter would only pass to such person as might receive an
appointment by. a will duly executed according to the laws 6f
South Carolina, that was an end of. the case, and whether that
conclusion was right or wrong is a matter with which we are
not concerned. If we were of a ,different opinion, and, entertaming jurisdiction, were to. reverse the. judgment of the
Supreme Court of South .Carolina, we should. do it uponotheground that that court erred in the construction of Mrs.
Harris' will, and not upon any ground connected with the
judgment of the Probate Court of North Carolina, which
could not and did not determine that question. Counsel says
that the position of the plaintiff. in error is, "that ' the decision
of the state court necessarily involved the question, whether
the will of Mrs. Blount was her ' last will and testament duly
executed,' that the judgment of the Probate Court of North
Carolina is conclusive of this, and whether in the decision the
state court has given this judgment the same force and effect
as it has in North Carolina, is the federal question." But the
state courb conceded that the judgment -of the Probate Court
of North Carolina established that the will of Mrs. lBlount
was her,last will and testament duly executed, and its decision

