OCTOBER TERM,. 1889.
Statement of the Case.

HOME INSURANCE COMPANY v. NEW YORK STATE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEV YORK.
No. 1. Argued March 18, 19, 1890. -Decided

April 7, 1890.

A tax which is imposed by a state statute upon "the corporate franchise or
business" of all corporations incorporated u "er any law of the State or of
any other State or country, and doing busine. j within the State, and which
is measured by the extent of the dividends of the corporation in the
current year, is a tax upon the right or privilege to be a corporation
and to do business within the State in a corporate capacity, and is not a
tax upon the privilege or franchise which, when incorporated, the company may exercise; and, being thus construed, its imposition upon the
dividends of the company does not violate the provisions of the statute
exempting bonds of the United States from taxation, 12 Stat. 346, c. 33,
ยง 2, although a portion of the dividends may be derived from interest on
capital invested in such bonds.
Such a tax is not in conflict with the last clause of the first section of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States declaring
that no State shall deprive any person within its 3urisdiction of the equal
protection of the laws.
The validity of a state tax upon corporations created under its laws, or
doing business within its territory, can in no way be dependent upon the
mode which the State may deem fit to adopt in fixing the amount for any
year which it will exact for the franchise.
McCulloch v. Maryland, -, Wheat. 316, 436; Weston v. City Council .of
Charleston, 2 Pet. 449; Henderson v. Mayor of Aew York, 92 U. S. 259'
and Brown v Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, in nowise conflict with the points
decided in this case; and the court fully assents to those cases, and has
no doubt of their correctness in any particular.

THIS case was first heard at October term, 1886. On the
15th of November, 1886, it was affirmed by a divided court, and
was reported in 119 U. S. 129, to which reference is made for
the reporter's statement of the case at that hearing, including
the text of the New York statute and the agreed case. On
the 7th of February, 1887, on motion of the counsel for the
plaintiff in error, that judgment was rescinded and annulled,
and the cause restored to its place on the docket, to be heard
by a full bench. 122 U S. 636. With its present opinion the

HOME INS. CO. V. NEW YORK.
Statement of the Case.

court handed down a statement of the case now made, which
is as follows
The plaintiff in error, The Home Insurance Company -of
New York, is a corporation created under the laws of that
State. Its capital stock during the year 1881 was three millions
of dollars, divided into thirty thousand shares of the par value
of one hundred dollars each, all fully paid. In the months.of
January and July of that year a dividend of $150,000 -was
declared by the company, making together ten per cent upon
the par value of its capital stock. A portion of that capital
stock was invested in bonds of the United States, amounting,
when the dividend was declared in July, 1881, and also on the
first of November of that year, to $1,940,000.
By an act of the legislature of New York, -passed May
26, 1881, c. 361, amending a previous act providing fQr the
taxation of certain corporations, joint stock companies and
associations, it was declared that every corporation, joint stock
company or association, then or thereafter *incorporated under
any law of the State, or of any other State or country, and doing
business in the State, with certain designated exceptions not
material in-this case, should be subject to a,tai upon. "i ts corporate franchise or business," to be. computed as follows- if
its dividend or dividends made or declared during the year
ending the first day 6f November amount to six per cent or
more upon the par value of its capital stock, then the tax to be
at the rate of one-quarter mill upon the capital sto6k for each
one per cent of the dividends. A less rate is provided where
there is no dividend, or a dividend less than six per cent and
also where- the corporation, company or association has more
than one kind of capital stock -as, for instance, common and
preferred stock -and upon-one of them there is a dividend
amounting to six or more-per cent and upon the other there is
no dividend or a dividend of less than six per cent. The purpose of the act is to fix the amount of the tax each year upon
the franchise or business of the corporation by the extent of.
dividends upon its capital stock, or, where there are no dividends, according to the actual value of the capital stock during

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Citations for Defendant in Error.

the year. We are concerned in this case, however, only with
the tax where the amount is computed by the extent of the
dividends.
The tax payable by the Home Insurance Company, estimated according to its dividends, under the above law of the
State, aggregated $7500. The company resisted its payment,
assuming that the tax was in fact levied upon the capital stock
of the company, and contending that there should be deducted
from it a sum bearing the same ratio thereto that the amount
invested in bonds of the United States bears to its capital
stock, and that the law requiring a tax without such reduction
is unconstitutional and void. An agreed case was accordingly
made up embodying a statement of the facts, between the
company and the attorney general of INew York representing
the State, and submitted to the Supreme Court of the State.
That court gave judgment in favor of the State against the
company, which on appeal to the Court of Appeals of the
State was affirmed. 92 N. Y 328. The judgment of the latter
court, having been remitted to the Supreme Court and entered
there, the case is brought to this court for review on writ of
error.
Mr Benamn It.Bmstow, for plaintiff in error, argued the
case on his former brief, which is reported at length in 119
U. S.133-143.
.Mr. C/arles F Tabor, Attorney General of the State of

New York, for defendant in error, argued the case on a brief
which embodied the substance of the brief of his predecessor,
_ir O'Brzen. 119 U. S. 143-147.

In addition to the cases cited under Poifit I in that brief,
.Mr Tabor cited State Tax on Railway Gross Reeezq4, 15
Wall. 284, IVebber v Tirgtnza, 103 U. S. 344, 350, .Mercantile Bank v NYew York, 121 U S. 138, 158, Kittanung Coal
Co. v Commonwealth, 79 Penn. St. 100, Philadelphza Contributionszp v. Commonwealthz, 98 Penn. St. 48, and, in addition to those cited under Point II Commonwealth v .Delaqware Dzvzsion Canal Co., 123 Penn. St. 494.

HOME INS. CO. v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

Under the first -pointin his brief (not in the former brief)that the decision of the Court of Appeals onthe construction
-of the constitution and statutes of New York will be followed by this court- .Ar Tabor cited Elmwood v -Marcy,
92 U. S. 289, Fazrfield v Gallatta County,'100 U. S. 47,
Loutsville, 3Vew Orleans & Texas Railway v fisswszpp, .133
U. S. 587, HT-amilton. Con pany v iassachusetts, 6 Wall.'632,
Detroit City Railway v Guthard, 111 U. S. 133; .Philadelphus FireAssociation v -ew York, 119 U. S. 110.
Under the fourth point in his brief (also not in the
former brief) - that this court has in many cases indicated
the restrictions, limitations and qualifications which are to be
applied to the words "nor shall any State deny to any person
within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws," showing clearly that they cannot be given the broad construction
soaight for them under the decision in San .Mateo v Southern
.Pacifdc Railroad,13 Fed. Rep. 722 - XrATabor cited' Hirtland v. Hotck kss, 100 U. 5. 491, Xemphhs Ga Co. v Shelby
County, 109 U. 'S. 398,
arber v Connolly, 113 U. S. 27,
32, Soon Ring v Crowley, 113 U. S. 703, Atiesour Paific
Railroad v Humes, 115 U. S. 512, Davenport"Bank v
Davenport, 123 U. S.. 83, Missour. Railway Co. v. .JMack.y,
127 U. S. 205, .Minneavolis Railway Co. v Beckwith, 129
U. S.26, Bank of Redemption v Boston, 125 U. S.60.
On the rules governing the construction of statutes, he cited.
Amy v Watertown (Yo. 1), 130 U. S.301; Parsons v BeVford, 3 Pet. 433, Gnenada County Superuisors v Brogden,
112 U. S. 261, Presser v Illinois, 116 U. 5. 252 269',
Ogden v Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 270.
:MR. JusTicE FiLD, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The. tontention of the plaintiff in error is that the tax in
question was levied upon its capital stock, and therefore
invalid so far as the bonds of the United States constitute a
part of tha:t stock. If that contention were well founded
there would le no question as to the invalidity of the tax.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

That the bonds or obligations of the United States for the
payment of money cannot be the subject of taxation by a
State is familiar law settled by numerous adjudications of
this court. It is a tax upon the exercise of the power of
Congress to borrow money a tax which, if permitted, could
be limited in amount only by the discretion of the State, and
might -therefore be carried to an extent impairing, if notdestructive of, the efficiency of the power, to the serious detriment of the general government. As held in X
JcCulloch v
.Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, 436, the States have no power by
taxation to impede, burden or in any manner control the
operation of the Constitution and laws enacted by Congress
to carry into execution the powers vested in the general government, a doctrine which, applied in Feston v City Couioil
of Ch/arleston, 2 Pet. 449, annulled a tax levied by the authority of a law of South Carolina on stock issued for loans to the
United States.
Nor can this inhibition upon the States be evaded by any
change in the mode or form of the taxation, provided the
same result is effected-tlat is, an impediment is thereby
interposed to the exercise of a power of the United States.
That which cannot be accomplished directly cannot be accomplished indirectly Through all such attempts the court will
look to the end sought to be reached, and if that would trench
upon a power of the government, the law creating it will be
set aside or its enforcement restrained. Thus in flenderson
v Mayor of New York, 92 U S. 259, 268, a statute of New
York provided that the master or owner of any vessel bringing passengers from foreign ports into the port of New York
should give a bond in the sum of $300 for each passenger
landed, against his becoming a public charge for four years
thereafter, or pay within twenty-four hours thereafter $150 for
each passenger, and that, if neither bond was given nor payment made, a penalty of $500 for such failure would be
incurred, which should be a lien upon the vessel. It was
contended that the object of the requirement was not taxation
but protection against pauperism, and therefore valid as within
the police power. But the court said that in whatever language

HOME INS. CO. v. NEW YORK.
Opimon of the Court.

the statute may be framed its purpose must be determined by
its reasonable and natural effect, and judged by that criterion
the tax was either on the owners of the vessel for the right
of landing passengers or-upon the passengers themselves, and
that, therefore, the statute, was a regulation of commerce
and void.
To the same purport is the familiar case of .Brown v.
.Maryland,12 Wheat. 419, so often cited in this court, where
it was contended that , license tax required of an importer
to sell his goods, while held in bulk as imported, was a tax
only upon his occupation. But the court observed that this
was only changing the form without varying the substance
of the tax, adding that "it is treating a prohibition which is
general as if it were confined to a particular mode of doing the
forbidden thing. All must perceive that a tax on the sale
of an article, imported only for sale, is a tax on the article
itself."
Looking now at the tax in this case upon the plaintiff in
error, we are unable to perceive that it falls within the doctrines of any of the cases cited, to which we fully assent, not
-doubting their correctness in any particular. It is not a tax
in terms upon the capital stock of the company, nor upon any
bonds of the United States composing a part of that stock.
The statute designates it a tax upon the "corporate franchise
or business" of the company, and reference is only made to
its capital stock and dividends for the purpose of determining
the amount of the tax to be exacted each year.
By the term "corporate franchise or business,'.' as here used,
we understand is meant (not referring to corporations ole,
which are not usually created for commercial business) the
right or privilege given by the State to two or more persons
of being a corporation, that is, of doing business in a corporate
capacity, and not the privilege or franchise which, when incorporated, the company may exercise. -The right or privilege
to be a corporation, or to do business as such body, is one generally deemed of value to the corporators, or it would not be
sought in such numbers as at present. It is a right or privilege by which several individuals may unite themselves under

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

a common name and act as a single person, with a succession
of members, without dissolution or suspension of business and
with a limited individual liability The granting of such right
or privilege rests entirely in the discretion of the State, and,
of course, when granted, may be accompanied with such conditions as its legislature may judge most befitting to its interests and policy It may require, as a condition of the grant
of the franchise, and also of its continued exercise, that the
corporation pay a specific sum to the State each year, or
month, or a specific portion of its gross receipts, or of the
profits of its business, or a sum to be ascertained in any convenient mode which it may prescribe. The validity of the
tax can in no way be dependent upon the mode which the
State may deem fit to adopt in fixing the amount for any
year which it will exact for the franchise. No constitutional
objection lies in the way of a legislative body prescribing any
mode of measurement to determine the amount it will charge
for the privileges it bestows. It may well seek m this way to
increase its revenue to the extent to which it has been cut off
by exemption of other property from taxation. As its revenues to meet its expenses are lessened in one direction, it may
look to any other property as sources of revenue, which is not
exempted from taxation. Its action in this matter is not the
subject of judicial inquiry-in a federal tribunal. As was said
m -Delaware Railroad Tax Case, 18 Wall. 206, 231 "The
State may impose taxes upon the corporation as an entity
existing under its laws, as well as upon the capital stock of
the corporation or its separate corporate property And the
manner in which its value shall be assessed and the rate of
taxation, however arbitrary or capricious, are mere matters of
legislative discretion. It is not for us to suggest in any case
that a more equitable mode of assessment or rate of taxation
might be adopted than the one prescribed by the legislature
of the State, our only concern is with the validity of the tax,
all else lies beyond the domain of our jurisdiction." It is true,
as said by this court in Cali/ornza v Pacjic Railroad Co.,
127 U. S. 1, 41, that-the taxation of a corporate franchise has
no limitation but the discretion of the taxing power, and its

HOME INS. CO. v. NEW YORK.
Opimon of the Court.

value is not measured like that of property, but may be fixed
at any sium that. the legislature may choose, it may be arbitrarily laid, without any valuation put upon the franchise. If
any hardship or oppression is created by the amount exacted,
the remedy must be sought by appeal to the legislature of the
State, it cannot be furnished by the federal tribunals.
The tax in the present case would not be affected if the
nature -of the property in which the whole capital stock is anvested were changed and put into real property or bonds of
New York, or of other States. From the very nature of the
tax, being laid upon a franchise given by the State, and revocable at pleasure, it cannot be affected- in any way by the character of the property in which its- capital stock is invested.
The power of the State over the corporate franchise and the
conditions upon Which it shall be exercised, is as ample and
plenary in the one case as in the other.
In some States the franchises and privileges of a corporation
are declared to be personal property Such was the case in
N~ew York with reference to the privileges and franchises of
savings banks. They .were so declared by a law passed in
1866, and made liable to taxation to an amount not exceeding
the gross sum of the surplus earned and in the possession of
the banks. The law was sustaaned by the Court of Appeals
of the State in .Monroe Savwngs Bank v City of Rochester,
37 N. Y 365, 369, 370, although the bank had a portion of its
property invested m United States bonds. In its opinion the
court observed that in declaring the privileges and franchises
of a bank to be personal property the.legislature adopted no
novel principle of taxation, that the powers and privileges
which constitute the franchises of a corporation were in a just
sense property, quite distinct and separate from the property
which, by the use of.such franchises, the corporation mighlt
acqmre, that they might be subjected to taxation if the legislature saw fit so to enact, that such taxation being within the
power of the legislature, it might prescribe a rule or test of
their value, that all franchises were not of equal value,
their value depending, in some instances, upon the -nature
of the business authorized, and the extent to which permis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

sion was given to multiply capital for its prosecution, and
that the tax being upon the franchises and privileges, it was
unimportant in what manner the property of the corporation
was invested. And the court added "It is true that where
a state tax is laid upon the property of an individual or a corporation, so much of their property as is invested in United
States bonds is to be.treated, for the purposes of assessment, as
if it did not exist, but this rule can have no application to an
assessment upon a-franchise, where a reference to property is
made only to ascertain the value of the thing assessed." And
again "It must be regarded as a sound doctrine to hold that
the State, in granting a franchise to a corporation, may limit
the powers to be exercised under it hnd annex conditions to its
enjoyment, and make it contribute to the revenues of the
State. If the grantee accepts the boon it must bear the
burden."
This doctrine of the taxability of the franchises of a corporation without reference to the character of the property in which
its capital stock or its -deposits are invested is sustained, by the
judgments m Society for Savzngs v Cote, 6 Wall. 594, and
Prowdent Institutton v .Afassackusetts, 6 Wall. 611, which
were before this court at December Term, 1867. In the first
of these cases it appeared that a law of Connecticut of 1863
provided that savings banks in that State should make an
annual return to the controller of public accounts "of the total
amounts of all deposits in them, respectively, on the first day
of July in each successive year," and should pay to the treasurer .of the State a sum equal to three-fourths of one per cent
on the total amount of deposits in such banks on those days,
and that the tax should be in lieu of all other taxes upon the
banks or their deposits. On the first day of July, 1863, the
Society for Savings, one of the banks, had invested over $500,000 of its deposits in securities of the United States, which
were declared by Congress to be exempted from taxation by
state authority, whether held by individuals, corporations, or
associations. 12 Stat. 346, c. 33, ยง 2. Upon the amount of its
deposits thus invested the society refused to pay the sum equal
to the prescribed percentage. In a suit brought by the treas-

HOME INS. CO. v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

urer of the State to recover the tax, the payment of which
was thus reiused, the Supreme Court of Connecticut held that
the tax was not on property but on'the corporation as such.
The case being brought here, the judgment was affirmed, this
court holding that the tax was on the franchise of the corporation and not upon its property, and the fact that a part of the
deposits was invested in securities of the United States did not
exempt the society from the tax. Said the court "Nothing
can be more certain m legal decision than that the privileges
and franchises of a private corporation, and all trades and
avocations by which the citizens acquire a livelihood, may be
taxed by a State for the support of the state government.
Authority to that effect resides in the State independent of
the federal government, and is wholly unaffected by the fact
that the corporation or individual has or has not made investment in federal securities." pp. 606-607.
It was contended in that case that the deposits in the bank
were subjected to taxation from the fact that the extent of
the tax was determined by their amount. But the court said
"Reference is evidently made to the total amount of deposits
on the day named, not as the subject matte for assessment,
but as the basis for computing the tax required to be paid by
the corporation defendants. They enjoy important privileges,
and it is just that they should contribute to the public burdens. Views of the defendants are, that the sums required
to be paid to the treasury of the State is a tax on the assets
of the institution, but there is not a word in the provision
which gives any satisfactory support to that proposition. Different modes of taxation are adopted in different States, and
even in the same State at different periods of their history
Fixed sums are in some instances required to be annually paid
into the treasury of the State, and in others a prescribed percentage islevied on the stock, assets or property owned or
held by the corporation, while in others the sum required to
be paid is left indefinite, to be ascertained in some mode by
the amount of business which the corporation shall transact
.within a defined 'period. Experience shows that the latter
mode is better calculated to effect justice among the corpora-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tions required to contribute to the public burdens than any
other which has been devised, as its tendency is to graduate
the required contribution to the value of the privileges granted
and to the extent of their exercise. Existence of the power
is beyond doubt, and it rests in the discretion of the legislature
whether they will levy a fixed sum, or if not, to determine in
what manner the amount shall be ascertained." p. 608.
In the second case mentioned; Proovint Institutionv Hassachusetts, it appeared that the statute of Massachusetts, passed
m 1862, levying taxes on certain insurance companies and
depositors in savings banks, provided that every institution
for savings incorporated under its laws should pay to the commonwealth a tax of one-half of one per cent per annum on
the amount of its deposits, to be assessed one-half of said
annual tax on the average amount of its deposits for the six
months precdding the 1st day of May, and the. other half on
the average amount of its deposits for the six months preceding the 1st day of November. The Provident Institution
for Savings in that State was authorized to invest its deposits
m securities of the United States. Its average amount of
deposits for the six months preceding the 1st day of May,
1865, was over eight millions, of which over one million was
invested in such securities. It paid all the taxes demanded
except on the portion which was thus invested. Upon that
it declined to pay the tax. In a suit brought by the commonwealth to recover the same, the Supreme Judicial Court of
the State held that the tax was one on the franchise of the

company and not on property, and therefore gave judgment
for the commonwealth. The case being brought here, the
1
judgment was affirme&In deciding the case, this court said,
referring to a section of the statute under which the tax was

levied "Deposits as the word is employed in that section,
are the sums received by the institution from depositors, without regard to the nature of the funds. They are not capital
stock in any sense, nor are they even investments, as the word
is there used, which simply means the sums received wholly
irrespective of the disposition made of the same, or their

market value."

And speaking of the difference existing be-

HOME INS. CO. v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

tween taxes upon franchises and taxes upon property it said
"Franchise taxes are levied directly by an act of the legislature, and the corporations are required to pay the amount
into the state treasury They-differ from property taxes as
levied for state and municipal purposes-in the basis prescribed
for computing the amount, in the manner of assessment, and
in the mode of collection," and again,'" Comparative valuation in assessing property taxes is the basis of computation
in ascertaining the amount to be -contributed by an individual,
but the amount of a franchise tax depends upon the business
transacted by the corporation and the extent to which they
have exercised the privileges granted in their charter." pp.
631, 632.
The court also referred to a- decision made by the Supreme
Court of the State to the effect that the assessment imposed
was to be regarded as an, excise or duty on the privilege or
franchise of the corporation, not as a tax on the moneys m its
hands belonging to the depositors. It was the corporation, it
said, that was to make the payment, and if it failed to do so it
was liable not only to an action for the amount of the tax, but
might also be enjoined from the future exercise of its franchise
until all taxes should be fully paid. Commonwealth v. People's
Savings Bank, 5 Allen, 428, 431.
And the court held that the valuation of the property had
nothing to do with determining the amount of the tax, but
that the amount depended on the average amount of deposits
for the six months preceding the respective days named, and
thaf there was no necessary relation between the average
amount of the deposits and the amount of property owned by
the institution, and, not being a property tax, it was to be considered as a franchise tax laid upon the corporation for the
privileges conferred by its charter, which by all the authorities
it was 'competent for the State to tax irrespective of what disposition the institution had made of its funds, or in what manner they had been invested.
In Hfamilton Company v. Xassachusetts, 6 Wall. 032, i4
statute of Massachusetts which required corporations having a
capital stock divided into shares, to pay a tax of a certain per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889..
Opinion of the Court.

centage upon the excess of the market value of such stock over
the value of its real estate and machinery, was sustained as a
statute imposing a franchise tax, notwithstanding a portion of
the property which went to make the excess of the market
value consisted of securities of the United States, this court,
however, placing its decision upon the fact that under the provisions of the state-constitution and the practice under it the
tax had been so considered by the highest tribunal of the State.
This decision goes much -farther than is necessary to sustain
the judgment of the Court of Appeals of iNew York in the
present case.
In this case we nold, as well upon general principles as upon
the authority of thq first two cases cited from 6th Wallace,
that the tax for which the suit is brought is not a tax on the
capital stock or property of the company, but upon its corporate franchise, and is not therefore subject to the objection
stated by counsel, because a portion of its capital stock is
invested in securities of the United States.
Nor is the objection tenable that the statute, in imposing
such tax, conflicts with the last clause of the first section of
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, declaring that no State shall deprive any person within
its jurisdiction of the equal prQtection of the laws. It is conceded that corporations are persons within the meaning of this
Amendment. It has been so decided by this court. Pemb.a
Cons. Silver Co. v Pennsylvania, 125 U S. 181. But the
amendment does not prevent the classification of property for
taxation -subjecting one kind of property to one rate of
taxation, and another kind of property to a different rate distinguishing between franchises, licenses and privileges, and
visible and tangible property, and between real and personal
property Nor does the amendment prohibit special legislation. Indeed, the greater part of all legislation is special,
either in the extent to which it operates, or the objects sought
to be obtained by it. And when such legislation applies to
artificial bodies, it is not open to objection if all such bodies
are treated alike under similar circumstances and conditions.
in respect to the privileges conferred upon them and the liabili-

