OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

EVANS v. STATE BAN-K.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 655. Submitted March 3, 1890.-Decided March 17,1890.

When the term at winch an appeal is returnable goes by without the filing
of the record, a second appeal may be taken, if, the time for appeal has
not expired.
If an appellee does not avail himself of his right, under the ninth rule,
to docket and dismiss an appeal for neglect of the appellant to docket the
case and file the record as required by the rules, the-appellant may- file the
record at any time during the return term.
T'he failure to obtain a citation or give a bond withiii two .years from the
rendition of a decree does not deprive this court of jurisdiction over an
appeal, wheir the transcript of the record i filed here during the term
succeeding its allowance.
MOTION TO DISMISS.

The case is stated m the opliion.

.AXr J _IoConanell and .M2r TW Hallett Phillips for the
motion.
.Mr A. R. Garlind,.Mr
opposing.
MR.

"J Johnson and.-H H. J .May

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The decree in this case was rendered on the 19th of June
and a rehearing refused on the 6tl of July, 1885. On the. 8th
of July of that year an order was entered allowing Mrs. Evans
and her husband, who were complainants below, an appeal to
this court upon giving bond Nyith security as directed, and
upon the same day the bond was filed and approved. Nothing. further was done, and the record not having been filed in
this court during the succeeding term the appeal became of no
avail, because not duly prosecuted. Credit Company v Arkcansas CentralRailway Co.,'128 U. S.258. On the 21st of May,
1887. Mr. and Mrs. Evans petitioned the Circuit Court to

EVANS' v. STAT.E BAK
Opinion of the Court.

allow an.appeal from said decree, which was on that day
allowed.and entered of record, on the petitioners furnishing
bond conditioned according to law This bond was accordingly
given and approved on the 3d of October, 1887, and citation
issued and served, returnable at October term, 1887. The
record was filed here on the 31st of March, 1888, one of the
days of'that term.
A motion is now made to dismiss the -appeal, upon the
grounds that it could not be granted, because the court had
exhausted its power .bythe allowance of the first appeal, and'
because, if this were not so, the second appeal was not taken
within two years from the entry of the decree. As to the first
of these grounds, it may be remarked, that when the term
elapsed at which the first appeal was returnable, without the
filing of the record, that appeal had spent its force, and the
matter was open to.the taking of a second appeal, as it would
have been if the appellee had docketed the cause and had it
dismissed. As to the.second appeal, this was taken within the
two years, by its allowance by the .Circuit Court and not lost,
as he did not fail to file the record. during the succeeding term.
lNeither the signing of the citation,.nor the approval of -the
bond, was necessary to our jurisdiction, but it was- essential
that the. record should be filed during the term at which the
appeal was returnable.
Under the ninth rule, it is the duty of an appellant to docket
his case and file the record with the clerk of. this cout within
the first six days of the term, where the decree was rendered
thirty days bpfore the commencement of the term, and if this
is not done, the appellee may have the case docketed and dismissed as therein provided,. though even then the court may by
order permit the appellant to docket the case and file the
record after such dismissal. And it has always-been held that
'f the case is not so docketed and dismissed by the appellee,
the appellant is in time if the record be filed during the return
term.
The filing of the transcript of record in this case under the
second appeal, during the term succeeding its allowance,. suf.ftced for the purposes of jurisdiction, which was not defeated.

