GILES v. LITTLE.
Statement of the Case.

questions in the negative, and the second and fourth 1n. the
affirmative.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
GILES v. LITTLE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 1384. Argued March 17', 1890.-Decided April 7, 1890.
The disregard by the highest court of a State of an opinion of this court in
another case, in which no judgment has been entered, gives this court
no jurisdiction on error.
The refusal of the highest court of a State, in a suit to quiet title, to give
effect to a judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States against
the present plaintiffand in favor of a grantee of the present defendant,
gives this court no jurisdiction on error.

THIS was a petition to quiet title, filed January 27, 1882, in
the district court for Lancaster County in the State of Nebraska, by Little and more than seventy others against Giles,
Burr and Wheeler, and the children of Jacob Dawson.
The petition alleged that Jacob Dawson on June 15, 1869,
being seized of certain' described real estate in that county,
made his last will as follows:
"After all my lawful debts are paid and discharged, the
residue of my real and personal property I bequeath and dispose of as follows, to wit. To my beloved wife, Edith T Dawson, I give and bequeath all my real estate and personal of
which I may die seized, the same to remain and to be hers,
with full power, right and authority to dispose of same as to
her shall seom meet and proper, so long as she remains my
widow, ,upon the express condition that if she shall marry
again then it is my will that all of the estate here bequeathed,
or whatever may remain, shall .go to my surviving children,
share and share alike;" and in case any of my children shall
have deceased, leaving issue, then the issue so left shall receive the share to which said child would be entitled. I likewise constitute and appoint my said wife Edith T., to be
executrix of my last will and testament."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

The petition further alleged that Jacob Dawson died a
week afterwards, and his will was duly admitted to probate,
and letters testamentary were issued to Mrs. Dawson, that in
order to pay his debts and maintain herself and children, and
to make advances to the oldest son, she was obliged to sell a
large portion of the real estate, and accordingly, under the
Zower conferred on her by the will, executed warranty deeds
ereof, under which the plaintiffs severally became seized of
certain lots described, that on November 15, 1879, she married again, that the defendants conspired together to cloud
the plaintiffs' title and to extort money from them, and, in
pursuance of the conspiracy, procured -deeds of the whole land
to be executed by'Dawson's children to Burr and Wheeler,
and by them to Giles, a citizen of Iowa, for nominal considerations, and to enable suits to be brought in the courts of
the United States, and pretended that Mrs. Dawson took by
the will an estate for life only, terminable by- her marriage,
and commenced vexatious suits, ana threatened to commence
others, against the plaintiffs.
The petition prayed for an injunction, a cancelling of the
deeds to Burr and Wheeler and to Giles, a decree quieting the
plaintiffs' title and establishing it against all the defendants,
and for further relief.
Burr and Whe6ler and some of Dawson's children disclaimed all interest in the property; the other children and
Giles filed an answer, denying the allegations of the petition,
and alleging-tbat the title had vested in Giles, and Giles filed
a-petition Tor the removal of the case into the Circuit Court
of the United States, upon the ground that he was a citizen of
Iowa and the plaintiffs citizens of Nebraska and other States,
and that the controversies between him and each of the plaintiffs were severable.
The case was thereupon removed into the Circuit Court of
the United States, and that coirt denied a motion to remand
it to the state court, and, afterwards, upon a hearing. on pleadings and proofs, entered a decree for the defendants.
On
appeal to this court that decree was reversed, and the case
ordered to be remanded to the state court, upon the ground

GILES v. LITTLE.
Statement of the Case.

that the controversies between Giles and the plaintiffs were
not severable, and that the deed to Giles was collusively made
for the purpose of giving jurisdiction to the courts of the
United States. 118 U.'S. 596. On February 28Y 1887, pursuant to the mandate of this court, the Circuit -Court ordered
the case to be remanded to the state court.
The defendants then, by leave of that court, filed an amended
and supplemental answer, alleging, among other things, the
following
First. A decision of this court on appeal in an action brought
in the Circuit Court of the United States by Giles against Little, holding that by the terms of the will. Mrs. Dawson took
only an estate for life, determinable upon her marriage, and
no power to convey any greater estate than she had herself.
Second. Judgments recovered in the Circuit Court of the
United States on July 3, 1887, against some of these plaintiffs
in actions of ejectment brought January 5, 1887, against them
by one Miles, to whom Giles in December, 1886,-had executed
a warranty deed of some of the lots.
A general replication was filed, and a trial was had before
the court without a jury, at which, among other things, the defendants put in evidence records of the judgments recovered by
Miles against some of these plaintiffs in the Circuit Court of the
United States; and Also a record of the proceedings in the action brought in that courtby Giles against Little, by which that
action appeared to have been an action of ejectment brought
August 23, 1880, for the lot now claimed by Little, in which
the Circuit Court sustained a demurrer to the petition and rendered judgment for the defendant, according to the opinion of
the Circuit Judge, reported in 2 McOrary, 371, its judgment
was reversed by this court on writ -of error on December 12,
1881, and the case remanded for further proceedings, and
after further proceedings the petition, on December 9, 1885,
was dismissed, on motion of Giles,. without prejudice to a -subsequent action.
The report of that case in this court in 104 U S. 291, was
also offered in evidence by the defendants at the trial of the
present-case, and excluded,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

The state court held that by the will of Jacob Dawson Mrs.
Dawson took a title in fee simple so long as she should remain
his widow, with full power to sell and convey the same in fee
during widowhood, and entered judgment for the plaintiffs
in accordance with the prayer of their petition. That judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Nebraska. 25
Nebraska, 313.
The defendants sued out this writ of error, and assigned for
error that the state courts did not give full faith and credit to
the judgments recovered by Miles against some of the plaintiffs in the Circuit Court, and disregarded the decision of this
court in 104 U. S. 291.
1[r J -M. Woolworth (with whom was XrA 1) -C.Bur on,
the brief) for plaintiffs in error.
M "
.X.Marquett (with whom were .M' .NT S. Eawood
and Afr John I. Ames on the brief) for defendants in error.
M.. JusTioE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The real question in controversy between the parties is of the
extenr"of the estate and power which Mrs. Dawson took under
the will of -her husband. In Giles v Little, 104 U. S. 291, this
court hbld that she took only an estate for life, determinable
by her piarrymg again, and no power to convey a greater
estate than she had herself. In the case at bar, the Supreme
Court of Nebraska, declining to follow that decision, and basing its judgment largely upon tho statutes of the State, held
that she took an estate an fee' determinable upon her marriage, with power during her widowhood at her discretion to
convey in fee any part of the land, and that the devise
over m case of her marrying again passed to the children only
what remained unconveyed.
ittle v Giles, 25 Nebraska, 313.
The question of the true construction of the will in this respect depends wholly upon general rules of law and upon the
local statutes, and in no degree upon the Constitution, laws
or treaties of the United States, and the disregard by the

GILES v. LITTLE.
Opinion of the Court.

state court of the opinion of this court upon the question m a
former suit does not give this court jurisdiction to review the
judgment of the state court in this case. Leather -Manufacturers' Bank v. Cooper, 120 U. S. 778, San Franctscov Scott,
111 U. S. 768, San Francesco.v. Itsell, 133 U. S. 65.

If the state court had refused to give due effect to a final
judgment of any court of the United States in a case between
the same parties, a federal question would have been presented, which might have been brought to this co{rt for review OTuhasseur v Rochereau, 21 Wall. 130, Crescent City
Co. v Butchers' Union Co., 120 U S. 141. But this record
presents no such state of things.
The case of Giles v Little, 101- U. S. 291, was indeed between
one of .the present defendants and one of the present plaintiffs,
and concerned the title to a lot of land now claimed by the
latter, but the judgment of this court only reversed a judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States sustaining a
demurrer to the petition, and remanded the case to that court
for further proceedings, and (as appears by the record given
in evidence at the trial of the case at bar) the petition was
afterwards, and before final judgment, dismissed on the motion of the plaintiff, without prejudice to a new action, so that
nothing was finally adjudged in that case, even as between the
parties to it. Bucher v. Chesh're Railroad, 125 U S. 555,
578, 579.
The ground most relied on in favor of a, reversal of the
judgment of the state court is its refusal to give effect to the
judgments obtained in the Circuit Court of the United States
against some of the present plaintiffs by. Miles, a grantee of
the present defendants. It is argued that the judgments in
favor of :-iles conclusively showed that some of these- plaintiffs had no title,, and that, as all these plaintiffs claimed under
one 'title in the present suit, the judgment below in their favor
must be reversed as to all of them.
As the present defendants did not claim under Miles, and
were not parties to -his suits, it is difficult to see how judgments in those suits could have any effect. as evidence for or
against them, by way of estoppel or otherwise..

