OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

by the failure to obtain a citation or give the bond within two
years from the rendition of the decree. .Edmonson v. Bloomshktre, 7 Wall. 306, Ricehardson v Green, 130 U. S. 104, and
cases cited.
The motion to dismiss is therefore
Dented.

MACON COUNTY v. HUIDEKOPER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT"OF MISSOURI.
No. 615.

Argued January 17, 20, 1890.- Decided March17, 1890.

The power, conferred by the statutes of Missouri upon counties within the
State, to levy and collect annually a tax of one-half of one per cent upon
all the taxable wealth of the county for county revenue, is not exhausted
by a levy Of thirty cents on every one hundred dollars of taxable property for county purposes, and the levy of twenty cents on the same by
the board of townships for township and bridge purposes; and a judgment creditor of such a county has a right to reqmreit to impose further
taxation, within the limit of the unexhausted power, for his benefit.

ON the 19th of November, 1879, the relator, Alfred HEidekoper, recovered in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern Division of the Western District of Missouri,
a judgment against Macon County, in that State, for
$28,033.00, and costs, upon interest coupons detached, from
certain bonds issued May 2, 1870, by that county to the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company, under the authority
of the 13th section of the act incorporating the company,
approved February 20, 1865. The judgment. not having been
paid, and pursuant to a mandate of the court, a warrant was
issued, dated April 29) 1884, upon the treasurer of the county,
directing him to pay to the relator $35,677.47 out of the general funds of the county in payment of that judgment. This
warrant represented the judgment with interest and costs. It
was on -the-same day presented for payment to the treasurer

MACON COUN1TY v. HUIDEKOPER.
Statement of the Case.

of the county, and its :payment was refused for alleged want
of funds.
The 13th section of the act incorporating the Missouri and
Mississippi Railroad Company provided that "it shall be lawful for the corporate authorities of any city or town, or the
county court of any county, desiring to do so, to subscribe to
the capital stock of said company, and may issue bonds therefor and levy a tax to pay the same not to exceed one-twentieth
of one per cent upon the assessed vilue of taxable property
for each year." It was under the authority thus conferred
that the county court of Macon *ounty subscribed for stock
in that company and issued the bonds in payment of its subscription, upon coupons of which the judgment of the relator,
was recovered.
The laws of the State of Missouri existing at the time of
the issue of the bonds and coupons, namely, May 2, 18O,
authorized the county court of Macon County to levy and
collect annually a tax of one-half of one per cent upon all the
taxable wealth of the county -for county revenue, in addition
to the one-twentieth of one per cent tax authorized by the
charter of the railroad company
In Un td Ratm v County of Mark, 96 U. .S. 211, it was
held that bonds similar to those upon which the coupons were
issued for which the judgment here was~recovered, were debts
of the county as fully as any other of its liabilities, and that if
any balance remained due on them for principal or- mleerest,
9fter application of the proceeds of the specific tax of onetwentieth of one per cent, the holders were entitled to its
payment out of the general funds of the county And in the
decision of five7 cases arising upon similar bonds before the
court at, the October term of 1883, .nox County Court v
Iarshman, 109 U. S. 229, it was held that the payment of
any such balance was demandable out of funds raised by taxation for ordinary county uses.
It appeared that for the year 1885 the county court of facon County ordered that the levy upon every one hundred
dollars of valuation of taxable property in that county for
county revenue should be thirty cents,n-istead of fifty cents

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

authorized by law, and that the revenue should be apportioned
as follows to the salary fund, one-third, to the contingent
fund one-fifth, to the poor-house fund, one-fifth, to the road
and bridge fund, one-sixth, and to the jury and election fund
the balance, and that its clerks certify that order 'to the
treasurer. The relator thereupon made a demand upon the
county to annul and rescind this order of apportionment, and
to increase the tax levy for the current year of 1885 from
thirty cents to the fifty cents authorized by law upon every
one hundred dollars valuation of taxable property in the
county, and to apply the proceeds of such tax to the payment
of the relakor's judgment and warrant. This demand being
refused, he prayed for a further writ of mandamus directing
the county court and the justices thereof t6 make the order
and take the proceedings demanded.
Subsequently, on motion of the relator the court-entered an
order requiring the county- court of Macon County and its
treasurer to make and fire in court on .the first Monday in
March, 1886, full returns and statements under oath relative
to the administration of the county revenue after the first of
January, 1884, to the date of fling their returns, stating the
value of the property assessed for the years 1884 and 18$5,
what taxes were levied- thereon for county'revenue and when,
what amounts were collected on said levies, -whatdispositions
were made of the amounts so collected, what subdivisions into
special funds had been made of the county revenue, what
payments .had been made to each find, and what balance
]emained on hand to the credit of each of the funds, and to
th& credit of the general fund, and what warrants had been
theretofore issued and registQred drawn on the general fund,
and what, if any, payments had been made thereon.
.In November,' 1885, the county court filed an amended
return to the mandamus issued, its original return having been
'lost, admitting that the county is a municipal corporation whose
financial affairs are administered by a county court, that the
relator recovered the judgment stated, and procured the warrant on its treasurer in the manner alleged, that the warrant
was pnpaid,.and' that by the law of Missouri, at the time of

MACON COUNTY v. HUIDEKOPER.
Statement of the Case.

the issue of the bonds, the county court was authorized to levy
and collect a tax of one-half of one per cent upon all the tax.ble weplth of the county for county revenue, in addition to
the one-twentieth of one per cent authorized by the charter of.
the company But it set up that the county had levied for the
year 1885 upon all the taxable wealth of the county of every
kind and description the full sum of fifty cents on the one hundred dollars' valuation thereof as would appear by the exhibits
which it presented, and made a part of its return, and stated
that it had apportioned the revenue as above mentioned. It
appeared .also that the township boards for the several townships in that county had levied for township and road purposes
for the year 1885 twenty cents on the one hundred- dollars'
valuation of taxable property, and that the county court had
directed the clerk of the county to extend on the several tax
books of the respective townships the rates which had been
thus levied for township purposes. It was only in this way
that the county court had levied fifty cents on the hundred
dollars of valuation of taxable property, that is, -by treating as
a part of such sum the amount which the township boards had
levied for township and road purposes, namely, twenty cents
on the one hundred dollars of valuation of taxable property
It also appeared from that return that the amount of money
remaining in the tr6asury of Macon 'County was $14,394.44,
and that there were outstanding and unpaid warrants largely
in eKcess of that sum, issued on the general fund of the county
for the' years of- 1884 and 1885, and that before the issue ofthe relator's warrant and its registration, a school fund warrant for the sum of $7848.90 had been issued by the county
and registered.
The relator demurred to the return, and the Circuit Court
sustained the demurrer, and-ordered a peremptory mandamus
to issue, compelling the county court to annul the order apportioning the revenue foi 1885 into separate and distinct funds,
to increase the tax levy for that year from thirty cents to fifty
cents by a further levy of twenty cents on every one hundred
dollars of valuation of taxable property in the county,, such
levy to be made and collected with the' regular annual levies

OCTOBER TERI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

required by law, and to apply the proceeds of such levy pro
rata towards the payment of all registered warrants of even
date and registration with relator's warrant, and to divide the
surplus in the treasury of $14,394.44, after deducting therefrom the amount of the warrant m favor of the school fund,
between the relator's warrant and other warrants of even date
of registration with that warrant, issued under and by virtue
of mandamus proceedings in said Circuit Court.
A motion for a rehearing was denied. To review this judgment the case was brought to this court on writ of error.
Mr James Cwrr (with whom was I&T Robert G .Witokell
on the brief) for plaintiff m error.
_MP Joseph Shvffen for defendant in error.

:MR.

JusTicE FIELD,

after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
According to the law of Missouri under which the bonds
of 2facon County were issued to the Missouri and Mississippi
Railroad Company, in payment of its subscription of stock to
that company, as stated above, the balance due upon the judgment of the relator, after application of the moneys raised by
the special tax of one-twentieth of one per cent upon the assessed value of taxable property, stood on the same footing as
any other liability of the county to be paid out of its general
funds. To raise revenue to meet its expenses, which included
that liability, the county was authorized to levy a tax of fifty
cents on every one hundred -dollars of valuation of taxable
United States v County of Clark,
property in the county
96 T. S. 211 , -Knoxe County Court v Unzted States, 109 U. S.
229.
In this case it appears that for the year 1885 the county had
levied only thirty cents on every one hundred dollars of property, but it set up in its answer that it had levied fifty cents,
treating the twenty cents which had been levied by the boards
of townships for township and bridge purposes as part of the

MA ON1

COUNTY v. HUIDEKOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

fifty cents. The township is a separate organization from
that of the county, with authority to purchase and hold real
estate and make contracts and control its corporate property,
and its taxes levied for those purposes over which it has control can in no just sense be termed taxes for county purposes.
There can be, therefore, no valid objection to the county's
levy of an additional twenty cents on the one hundred dollars
to make up the fifty cents which it is authorized to levy to
meet its expenses and liabilities.
The apportioning of the funds collected to distinct and separate purposes does not affect the question presented. The
proceeding is to obtain a further levy and the appropriation
of its proceeds upon the judgment of the relator among other.
debts of the county
That the surplus remaining m the treasury over the'payment of the warrant for the school fund, which is of prior
registration, should be appropriated, pro 'ata-, upon all the
warrants of even date and registration, is a simple measure
of justice: All the warrants were issued and :registered on
the same. day, and if they could only be paid in the order of
their gegistration, and a payment could not be made .on any
one without its surrender, as contended, the treasurer would
be obliged to retain the funds in his possession until he had asufficient amount to pay them all before -applying any. portion
thereof. As the Circuit Court said, tls is an absurd position,
and it held that whenever any reasonable amount has awi
mulated"it should be distributed, and added that the order of
the court would be a full protection to the officer. In thatrespect as well as in other particulars, concurring with the.
court, we affirm its judgment.
AfLrmed:
'VOL.

cxxxiv-22

