PENFI]iLD v. CHESAPEAKE &c. R'D CO.
Citations for Plaintiff in Error.

PENFIELD v. .CHESAPEAKE, OHIO AND SOUTH
WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 187. Argued January 30, 1890.-Decided March 17, 1890.

in section 90 of the New York Code of Civil Procedure it is provided that
accrues against a person who is not
"where a cause of action
then a resident of the State, an action cannot be brought thereon in a
court of.the State, against hun or his personal representative after the
expiration of the time limited by the laws of his residence for bringing
a like action, except by a resident of the State, and inone of the follow2. Where before the expiration of the time so liming cases.
ited, the person, in whose favor it originally accrued, was, or became, a
resident of the' State, etc. -" Held, following the decisions of the courts
of the State of New York in parallel cases, that this statute contemplates that the plaintiff shall be an actual resident in the State, and that
he does not become such by sending his family to the State of New York
from another State, in which he and they were residing, with the intent
that they should reside there, but remaining himself in the other State.

THE case is stated

in the opinion.

Iilliams,for plaintiff in error, cited, among
Xr Bufus F.
v Johnson, 10 Mass. 488, Blanchard v.
cases
Putnam
other
Stearns, 5 Met. 298, fHolmes v Greene, T Gray, 299, Crawford v Wilson, 4 Barb. 504, Fry's Eledtwm Case, 71 Penn.
St. 302, State v TZaltt, 8 Alabama, 159, Dale v Irwzn, 78
Illinois, 170, Tranderpoel v O'Hanlon, 53 Iowa, 246, -Moorehouse v Lord, 10 H. L. Cas. 272,. WATtker v Hume, 7 H. L.
Gas. 124, Lord v Colvin, 4 Drew 366, Xitcheli v United
,Sate-,21 Wall. 350, Exeter v Bnghton, 15 Maine, 58, S/iaw
v Sklaw, 98 Mass. 158, State v Aldrch, 14 R1. I. 171, Shattuck v Maynard, 3 N. H. 123, Long v Ryan, 30 Gratt. 718,
Cohen v Daniels, 25 Iowa, 88, Fitzgerald v Arel, 63 Iowa,
104, Boucteault v TFood, 2 Bissell, 34, Doyle v. Clark, I
Flipp. 536, Abzngton v lVorth. Brzdgewater, 23 Pick. 170,
Thorndice v Boston, 1 Met. 242, Collester v Ilailey, 6 Gray,
517, Langdon v.-.Joud, 6 Allen, 423, S. C. 83 Am. Dec. 641,
J1allettv Bassett, 1'00 Mass. 167 RKennedy v Ryal, 67 N. Y

OCTOBER TERi, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

379, Reed's Appeal, 71 Penn. St. 378, Tyler v lurray, 57
Maryland, 41$, Talmadge v Talmadge, 66 Alabama, 199,
Campbell v White, 22 Michlgan, 178, Chariton County v
Jolberly, 59 Missouri, 238, Desmare v Unzted States, 93 U S.
605, White v Brown, 1 Wall. Jr. C. C. 217, Church v Rowell,
49 Maine, 367, Gilman v Gilman, 52 Maine, 165, S. C. 83
Am. Dec. 502, Report of the Judges, 5 Met. 587, M-oDantel
v. Ring, 5 Cush. 469, Otts v Boston, 12 Cush. 44, Brzggs v
Rochester, 16 Gray, 337, filson v Terry, 11 Allen, 206, Hindmans.Appeal, 85 Penn. St. 466, State v Grqzzard, 89 N. C.
115, Kellogg v Oshkosh, 14 Wisconsin, 623, Hall v Hall. 25
Wisconsin, 600, KYellogg v Supermisors, 42 Wisconsin, 97,
Morgan,v _Vunes, 54 Mississippi, 308, Shepherd v Casslday,
20 Texas, 24, Cross v Everts, 28 Texas, 523, Dupuy v Wurtz,
53 N. Y 556, Harrms v Firth,4 Cranch C. C. 710, Hayes.v
Hayes, 74 Illinois, 312, fittlejield v Brooks, 50 Maine, 475,
Mills v Alexander, 21 Texas, 154, Jenntson v Hapgood, 10
'Pick. 77, Bassett v Wheeler, 84 N. Y 468, Frost v Brisbi,
19 Wend. 11, S. C. 32 Am. Dec. 423, Boardman v House,
18 Wend. 512, Burrows v Miller, 4 How Pr. (N. Y) 349,
Jshani v Gibbons, 1 Bradf. (N. Y.) 69, Matter of Thompson,
1 Wend. 43.
-Mr B. F Tracy, (with whom was -Mr
W Tao-Farland
on. the brief,) for defteidant in error, cited St. Clatr v Cox,
106 U. S. 350, Burnham,v. Rangley,.1 Woodb. & Min. 7, 11,
Frostv Brzsnn, 19 Wend. 11 , S. C. 32 Am. Dec. 423, Matter
of Thompson, 1 Wend. 43, Haggart v Mforgan, 5 N. Y 422,
S. C. 55 Am. Dec. 350, Bell v Pserce, 51 N. Y 12, Unton
Hlotel Co. v. Hersee, 79 N. Y 454, Queen v. Vice-Chancellor
&o., L.
7 Q. B. 471, Attorney General v McJean, 1 HI. & C.
IR.
750, Blackwell v England, 8 Ell. & B1. 541, Hewer v Cox,
3 El. & El. 428, Board of Supervsors v Davenport, 40 Illinois, 197, Storm v Smith, 43 Mississippi, 497.
AIR.

JusTiOE

HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in March, 1884, in the Supreme
Court of New York, Kings County, by the plaintiff in error
against the Chesapeake, Ohio and Southwestern Railroad

PENTFIEML) v. CHESAPEAKE &c. RD CO.
Opinion of 'the Court.

Company, a corporation created under the laws of Kentucky
and Tennessee. Its object was to recover damages alleged
to have been sustained by the plaintiff on the 30th of November, 1882, in the State of Tennessee, in consequence of the careless, negligent and wrongful conduct of the defendant and
its servants, while he was a passenger upon one of its trains.
Upon the petition of the company the action was removed
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of New York, where, after the evidence was concluded, the jury, under the direction of the court, returned a
verdict for the defendant. This direction was given because,
in the opinion of that court, the plaintiff's cause of action was
barred by th- statutes of limitation of New York.
The statutes here referred to are in these words
"The following actions must be commenced within the
following periods, after the cause of action has accrued.
Within three years

.

An action to recover

damages for a personal injuryl, resulting from negligence."
N. Y Code of Civil Procedure, ยง 380, 383.
" Where a cause of action which does not involve the title
to, or possession- of, real property within the State? accrues
against, a person who is not then a resident of the State, an
action cannot be brought thereon in a court of the State,
against him or his personal representative, after the expiration
of the time'limited by the laws of his residence for bringing a
like action. except by a resident of the State, and in one of
the following cases,
"c1. Where the cause of action originally accrued in favor
of a resident of the State.
"12. Where, before the expiration of the time so limited, the
person, in whose favor it originally accrued, was, or became,
a resident of the State, or the cause of action was assigned to,
and thereafter continuously owned by, a resident of the State."
1b. ยง 390.
A motion for new trial having been overruled, a judgment
was rendered for the company That judgment is here for
review, the only. error assigned being the court's instruction to
find for the defendant.
voL exxxav-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the, Court.

It was agreed that at the trial the plaintiff gave testimony
tending to show the following facts He lived in Harlem,
NYew York, when a boy of fourteen years of age, married in
Brooklyn, removed from that city to Michigan, from the latter
State to Illinois, and from Illinois to St. Louis, Missouri, where
he had resided for about one year prior to the accident. At
the time of the accident he was a travelling salesman for an
agent of the M[ichigan Salt Association located in St. Louis,
and when the trial took place, was engaged in that capacity
When injured, he resided in St. Louis, with his wife and
children. In August, 1883, he "sent his wife and children to
Brooklyn, New York, where they took up their residence and
commenced to keep house, and where they have resided ever
since August, 1883, and do now reside." The plaintiff himself
did not go to Brooklyn with his family in August, 1883, nor
did he join them there until December 31, 1883, or January 1,
1884. "He remained with his family in Brooklyn for about
three months, when he again went to St. Louis, and from
there went travelling for said agency as said salesman." He
"again joined his wife and children the next December, 1884,
and remained with them some three months, when he again
went out on the road." He joined his family m October, 1885,
and was with them at the time of the trial. He lived with
them when at home, and always lived with his wife since
their marriage, except when absent on business. The attorney
for the defendant addressed the plaintiff at his place of business
in St. Louis, up to -December 28, 1883, on which day the latter
notified him by letter of his change of address to Brooklyn,
for which place he was in the act of starting to join his family
Upon the issue as to the residence of her husband, Mrs.
Penfield's evidence was, that they had lived together constantly
for about twenty-two years, and she was always with -him
except when he was travelling. Having stated that at the
time of the accident, and during the sickness of her husband,
resulting from the injuries received by him, they resided at
St. Louis, her examination continued "Q. How long did you
continue to live there yourslf after this sickness ? A. Until
the next August. Q. What year was that 2 A. -1883. Q. In

.PENFIELD v. CHESAPEAKE &c. RD CO.
Opinion of-the Court.

August, 1883, what' did.youv do I A. Came here to.Brooklyn,
.lured a house. and went to house-keeping, moved all my
tings I wished to retami and have.- lived here ever since with
.my. children. Q. What -about your furniture 2 A. Part I
sold in St. Louis and part I brought. here. Q. And have you
been residing here ever sice? A. Yes, sir. Q! Your.husband's
place of abode is here 'with you n- your house ? A. Yes, sir.
Q. At the time you renroved from St. Louis to 'Brooklyn will
you state, if-you know, the reason why your husband did not
come on with you at that time?. ' This question was objected'
to asuninaterial and irrelevant, and 'vas not answered.
As the railroad company is a corporation of Tennessee,
where -the injury occurred, and- as the plaantiff was not a
resident of New York when the cause of action originally
accrued to him, the suit was barred by se6tion 390 unless, he
became a resident of the .lgtter.State before the expiration of'
the period limited by the laws of Tennessee for the commencement. of actions .like this, that is, before the expiration of one
year from November 30,. 1882o The contention .of the plaintiff is that,. although he was not in the State of New York for.
some years prior to I)ecember, 1883, he became, within the
meaning. of the -statute, a resident of that State, when, in
August, 1883, he, sent. his .family to tl'e city of, Brooklyn.
We are not aware of any determination of this precise question
by the highest court of New York. But there are decisions
-of that court construing statutes, other than statutes of limitation, which contain the words ." resident" and. ".residence.' i
Those decisions may throw some light upon the present case.
The earliest of those cases, to which our attention 'has beencalled, is _Ine :Thompson, 1 Wend. 43, 45. It arose-under a statute, 1 Rev Laws N. Y. (1813) c. 49, p. 157,1'he 23d section of
which provided "that the estate, real and personal, of. every
debtor who resides -out of this State, and is.ihdebted within i1,
-shall be liable to 'be attached -and sold for the payment of hi
debts, in like-manner, in all respects; as nearly as may be, as the
estatesof debtors residing within this State." -Chief Justice
Savage, -delivering the opimion of -the court, said that ..the
object of the statute was to authorize creditors to' prosecute

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

for their debts when their debtors were abroad, and whether
their absence from the State was permanent or temporary,
whether voluntary or involuntary, the reason for giving this
remedy to the creditor was the same. He said the question
was "where was his actual 'enuence,not his domcil.
The act is intended to give a remedy to creditors, whose
debtors cannot be served with process. If the debtor absconds or secretes himself, then an attachment issues. If he
notoriously resides abroad, then the attachment issues. But if
he goes openly to another State or country, and remains there
doing business, but intending to return when his convenience
will permit, he is not, as his counsel contends, an absent
debtor, and his property cannot be touched. He may become
a bankrupt abroad, as has Alexander Thompson, his property
may be taken by his partners, and used by them, or transferred to his foreign creditors, as is attempted in this case,
and the creditor may stand by and acknowledge and regret
the insufficiency of our laws, but the property cannot be
touched. Surely the legislature never intended such a state
of things.
The reason why this remedy is given
against the property of debtors resident abroad is equally
applicable whether the debtor is absent permanently or temporarily No length of residence, without the intention of
remaining, constitutes donmil. A debtor, therefore, by-residing abroad, without declaring an intention to remain, might
prevent his creditors from ever collecting their debts. In my
judgment, the present case comes not only within the spirit of
the act, but also within its terms."
In Frost v BPzsbm, 19 Wend. 11, 14, the court was required
to determine the meating of the word "resident," in the act of
1831, Statutes 1831, p. 396, providing that no person should
be arrested on civil process in suits brought upon contracts,
express or implied, except in cases where the defendant "shall
not have been a resident of this State for at least one month
previous to the commencement of a suit against him."
In that case it appeared that Brisbin, a citizen and resident
of New York, purchased a stock of goods, took then to Milwaukee, and established himself in business in the latter city,

PENFIELD

,.

HESAPEAKE &c. :RD CO

Opinon of the Court.

leaving his wife and child to board at his former residence in
New York. There was evidence tending to show that he
went to Milwaukee with intent to make it his permanent residence. But there was, also, evidence tending to show that he
had no fixed purpose, when he went to that city, of making it
his permanent abode, unless he was successful in business, and
that when arrested he had the purpose -not having been thus
successful -to close up his business and return to his former
residence, though without any certain plans as to his future
course.
The court, speaking by Chief Justice Nelson, said that if
the case turned upon the defendant's formed intention and
purpose of mind, and not upon the fact of -actual residence,
the law was for him. But upon a review of former decisions,
construing statutes regulating the rights and remedies of creditor and debtor, he said. "The cases cited above establish that
the transient visit of a person for a time at a place, does not
make him a resident while there, that something more is necessary to entitle him to that character. There must be a settled, fixed abode, an intention to remain permanently at least
for a-time, for business or other purposes, to constitute a rezOne of
dence within the legal meaning of that term.
these cases expressly, and all of them virtually,. decide that
actual 'esidence, without regard to the domcil of the defendant, was within the contemplation of the statutes. Whether,
therefore, the defendant had so established himself at Milwaukee as to work a change of his domicil or not, is immaterial, for if we concede he has not; he may still be a Pessdent
there. The domicil of a citizen may be in one Stat6 or Territory, and his actual. residence in another." After observing
that upon the facts it must be. assumed that the defendant
commenced an actual and permanent residence in Milwaukee
in the spring of 1836, but that since that date he had resolved
to close his business there as soon as it could be conveniently
done, and return to his former residence, the court said. " H as
this change of intention worked a change of residence 2 for
this is the most that can be pretended. If our exposition of
the meamng of the term in the statute is correct, it clearly

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

did not. His actual residence is still at Milwaukee. He is
still carrying on his business there, and may continue it for
such time as he pleases. Change of mind may lead to change
of residence, but cannot with any propriety be deemed such of
itself."
In Haggart v Ao rgan, 1 Selden, (5 N. Y.) 422,428, which was
the case -of an attachment against the defendant as a non-resident debtor, it iias held that although the defendant was dom,&oiled in New York, he was, by reason of a continuous, though
temporary, absence in New Orleans, ,for about three years, to
be deemed a non-resident -within the meaning of the statute
regulating attachments.
In Weitl pa v Loekr, 53 N. Y Superior Ct. 79, 82, the
court said "Residence, in attachment laws, generally implies
an established abode, fixed permanently for a time, for business or other purposes, although there may be an intent existing all the while to return to the true domicil."
These cases show that, within the meaning of the statutes
regulating attachments against the property of debtors, as
well as those regulating arrests on civil process for debts, it
was the actual residence of the defendant, and not is domicil,
that determined the rights of the parties.
A like construction appears to have been given, or assumed,
by the courts of New York in regard too.similar words in that
clause of its statute of limitations, which provides that if, after
the cause of- action shall- have accrued, -the.defendant shall
"depart from and reside out of the State, the time of his
absence" ihall not be included in the period of limitation.
The.Supreme Court of the State, discussing that provision,
said "The expressions ' and reside out of the State ' and ' the
time of his absence ' have the samb-meanm, they are correlative expressions. So-that while the defendant in this cage resided out of, he was absent from, the State, and accordingly,
until he again became a resident of the State, the suspension
of the operation of the statute continued." Bwr'rougs v
Bloomer, -5 Denio, 532, 535. It was held in that case, as well
as in two later and well. considered opinions, the .one of the
Superior Court of the city of New York,, delivered by Mr.

PENFIELD v. CHESAPEAKE &c. WID CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Justice Duer, and the other of the Court of Appeals, delivered
by Judge Selden, that where a, defendant, after the cause of
action accrued against him, departed from and resided out of
the State several times, returning to the State in the intervening periods, all the times of absence- or non-residence were to
be added together and deducted from the term of limitation.
Ford v Babcock, 2 Sandf. (K.Y.) 518, 527, 531, Cole v ,TessUip,
10 N. Y 96, 104, 107. In each of those three cases it was
not alleged or contended, and could not be inferred -fromany
language in the pleadings, or in the opinion,. that the defendant changed his domicil upon each departure and return. To
the same effect. is ,Satterthwazte v Abercrombte, 23 Blatchford,
308. And, in a very recent case, the Court of Appeals said
"The law gives a creditor six years' continued presence of his
-debtor within the State after the cause of action has accrued."
-Engel v Fischer, 102 N. Y 400, 404.
To give a different meaning to the word "residence," or
- resrdent," or "reside" in that clause of the Neew York -statute
of limitations which relates to plaintiffs, from that which the.
courts of the State have given it in that clause of the same
statute which relates to 'defendants, as well as in various
statutes of the State on other subjects, would produce much
confusion.
Assumluig, without"deciding, that -the testimony introduced
for the plaintiff in the .present case would warrant the impression that he had obtained a domicil in the State "ofNew York
by virtue of his .wife and family, with his consent, having
made their home in that State, there is nothing in the evidence
which had the slightest tendency to show that his own actual
residence was in the State of New York for many years prior
to is going there from St. Louis in December, 1883.
To illustrate by referring to other statutes, let us suppose
that the plaintiff, while engaged in business in St. Louis, had
brought this action in the Supreme Court of New York, immediately after his family, took up their residence in BrQoklyn. Couild he not have been compelled to give security
for costs, under section 3268, of the Code of Civil Procedure,
which declares that "the defendant, in an action b'ought in

OCTOBER TERM, 1-889.
Opinion of the Court.

a court of record, may require security for costs to be given
where the plaintiff was, when the action was coma person residing without-the State." Or
menced,
if the defendant in this action had, within the same period,
brought, in one of the courts of New York, a suit against the
present plaintiff, upon a cause of action for an ".injury to
personal property, in consequence of negligence," it could not
be doubted, in view of the decisions heretofore cited, that an
*attachment could have been sued out, and sustained, under
sections 635 and 636 bf the code, which provide that a warrant of attachment against the property of one or more defendants in such an action may be granted upon the application of the plaintiff, where it appears by affidavit "that the
defendant is
not a resident of the State." Could
Penfield, in the last case supposed, have been deemed a nonresident of New York when sued for "an injury to personal
property in consequence of negligence," and under the same
facts be regarded as a resident of New York if he sued the
same party "for a personal injury resulting from negligence 2"
Could he be deemed a resident of the State for the purpose of
bringing this action, immediately after his family reached
Brooklyn, and a non-resident if the railroad company had, at
the same time, sued hun in New York, and taken out an
attachment against his property? The answer to these questions suggests that, in view of the course of decisions in New
York, the plaintiff, by retaining his residence for purposes of
business in St. Louis, did not become a resident of New York,
within the meaning of section 390, until he changed his actual
residence to that.-State. If he had, before the expiration of
the period limited by the law of Tennessee, quitted his residence in Missouri and.joined his faaily in New York for the
purpose of making the latter State his residence in fact, he
would have been entitled to bring his action within the period
fixed by the laws of New York for the commencement of aca resident of that State when
tions like this by one who 'is
the cause of action accrues.
As under the evidence the jury could not, by any reasonable
inference from the proof, have found that the plaintiff became

