McCORIMICK v. WALTHERS.
Opinion of the Court.

McCORMICK HlARVESTING MACHINE
v. WALTHERS.
ERROR TO TH

COMPANY

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 2402. Submitted January 27, 1890.-Decided March 3, 1890.

When the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States is founded
upon any of the causes specially mentioned in section 1 of the act of
March 3, 1887, as amended by the act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, c.
866, (except the citizenship of the parties,) the action must be brought in
the district of which the defendant is an inhabitant; but where the jurisdiction is founded solely upon the fact that the parties are citizens of
different States, the suit may be brought in the district in which either
the plaintiff or the defendant resides.

MOTION TO DISMISS or &Fnumr.

The case is stated in the

opimon.

.Ar -Y

. Hfarwood and .fr

John I

Ames for the notion.

Mr Walter J LTamb, .M-r Arnott C. .wketts and Mr Henry
H. Wilson opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
Walthers brought his action on the 21st day of July, 1887,
1n the Circuit Court of the United States. for the District of
Nebraska, against The McCormick EHarvesting Machine Company, alleging that he was a citizen and resident of the State of
Nebraska, and that the defendant was a corporation duly incorporated and existing under the laws of the State of Illinos, "but
having a local habitation and managing agent in Nebraska,"
for falsely and maliciously, and without probable or reasonable
cause, sung out two attachments against him, and placed his
damages at $10,500, for which he asked judgment and costs.
The defendant answered, justifying the issuing of the writs of
attachment and denying any liability by reason thereof and
also pleaded in set-off and counter-claim two judgments

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

against Walthers, one for $957.93 and $28 costs, and one foi
$2894.01 and $26 costs, both bearing interest at ten per centum
per annum from June, 1887, and prayed judgment against
the plaintiff for said -several sums and for interest and costs.
Subsequently leave was granted to the McCormick Company
to withdraw its answer and to file a plea, which averred "that
now and at the commencement of this action the said Charles
W Walthers was a citizen and inhabitant of the State of Nebraska, and this defendant was a corporation duly organized
under the laws of the State of Illinois, and was and is a
citizen, resident and inhabitant of the State of Illinois, and
was not and is not a citizen, resident or inhabitant-of the State
or District of Nebraska, that a summons in this action was
served on this defendant's agent in the State of Nebraska,
where this defendant has an office, said agent being only its
local managing agent for its business in Nebraska, and this
defendant says that this action was brought since the 15th day
of March, 1887, and this defendant says that it is not subject
to be sued or to be summoned by original process out of this
court in this cause in this judicial district," and: defendant
prayed judgment that the action might be abated.
This plea was upon hearing overruled, and the defendant
ruled to answer in thirty days, and plaintiff to reply in fortyfive days, and a reply in general denial of the answer was filed,
the answer being treated as if still a pending pleading. The
case came on for trial and resulted in a verdict for the plaintiff, assessing his damages in the sum of $1338.57, upon which
judgment was entered. A motion for a new trial was made
and denied, and a writ of error sued out from this court, which
the defendant in error now moves to dismiss, uniting with that
motion a motion to affirm.
No bill of exceptions was taken, and the denial of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is the only question which can be
raised upon the record. And this has no relation to the mode
of service. The defendant was a foreign corporation, and uhe
statute of Nebraska provided that "when the defendant is a
foreign corporation, having a managing agent in this State,
the service-may be upon such agent." Code Civ. Proc. Ne-

McCORMICK v. WALTEERS.
Opimon of the Court.

braska, 75, Comp. Stats. Neb. 1881, 539, 1885, 637. The
plea admits service upon the company's local managing agent,
and as the defendant entered full appearance and answer, and,
after the Withdrawal of the answer and the filing of the plea
and its disposition, went to trial on the merits upon issue
joined on that answer, the objection to the jurisdiction, if it
can be urged at all, must be confined to want of power to
entertain the suit outside of defendant's own district.
By section 1 of the act of Mvarch 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, c.
373, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433,
c. 866. to amend the act of March 3, 1875, determining the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the. United States, and
regulating the removal of causes from the state courts and for
other purposes, it was provide4. "But no person shall be
arrested in one district for trial in another in any civil action
before a tircuit or district court, and no civil suit shall be
brought before either of said courts against any person by any
original process or proceeding in any other district than that
whereof he is an 'inhabitant, but where the jurisdiction is
founded only on the fact that the action is between citizens of
different States, suit shall be brought only in the district of the
residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant." The jurisdiction common to all the-Circuit Courts of the United States
in respect to the subject matter of the suit and the character
of the parties who might sustain suits in those courts, is described in the section, while the foregoing clause relates-to the
district in which a suit may be originally brought. Where the
jurisdiction is founded upon any of the causes mentioned in
'this section, except the, citizenship of the. parties, it must be
brought in the district of which the defendant is an inhabitaut, but where the jurisdiction is- founded solely upon the
fact that the parties are citizens of different states, the suit
may be brought in the district in which either the plaintiff or
the defendant resides. "The concluding lines," said yr. Justice Field in Wilson v. Western (rnwn TelegrapA Co., 3- Fed.
Rep. 561, "are to be read as a proviso to the general provisibn
that no ciVil suit.shall be brought except in the district whereof
the defendant is an inhabitant." This conclusion was reached

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

and announced by many of the Circuit Courts, and there can
be no doubt of its correctness. _aes v Oh'cago, 3filwaukee
&c. Railway, 32 Fed. Rep. 673, St. Louws &c. Railroad v
Terre Haute &c. Railroad,33 Fed. Rep. 385, Zoonms v Y Y
& Oleveland Gas Ca., 33 Fed. Rep. 353, Gazn v VFance, 33
Fed. Rep. 84, Swayne v Boylston 1nsuranee Co., 35 Fed.
Rep. 1.
The judiciary act of 1789 provided that no civil suit should
"be brought before the Circuit or District Courts against an
inhabitant of the United States by any original process in any
other district than that whereof he was an inhabitant or in
which he sliould be found at the tine of serving the writ, 1
Stat. 79, c. 20, ยง 12, and the act of 1875, 18 Stat. 470, c. 137,
ยง 1, contained a similar provision. This liability of the defendant to be sued in a district where he might be found at
the tune of serving process was omitted m the act of 1887, but
he-still remained liable. to suit in the district of the residence
of the plaintiff as well as in his own district; and as he could
not be sued anywhere else, we held in Smith v. -Lyon,133 U. S.
315, that where there were 4wo plaintiffs, citizens of different,
States, the defendant, being a-citizen of another State, could
not be sued m the State of either of the plitntiffs. Mr. Justice Miller points out, in delivering the opinion of the court,
that the evident purpose of Congress in the act of 1887 was to
restrict rather than enlarge the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, "while," he says, "at the same tune a suit is permitted
to be 'brought in any district where either plaintiff or defendant resides."
The defendant answered tQ the merits in this case, and was
then permitted to file the plea in question for the purpose of
insisting that it was not subject to suit in.a United States court
m ,the district of the plaintiffs residence. Upon the overruling
of this plea, the catise proceeded to -trial on the. merits upon
the-issues made up on the complaint,. answer and replication,
the trial continuing for several .days, both parties appearing
by their attorneys, adducing testimony, and arguing the case
to the jury Under these circumstances, there being no question whatever presented- by the record, except whether the

