OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Syllabus

401 U. S.

UNITED TRANSPORTATION UNION v. STATE
BAR OF MICHIGAN
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN
No. 434.

Argued January 20, 1971-Decided April 5, 1971

Respondent brought this action to enjoin the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen (later merged into petitioner) from engaging in
,group legal activity for the stated purpose of assisting workers in
filing damage suits under the Federal Employers' Liability Act
(FELA). Respondent charged that the Union had recommended
to its Michigan members selected Chicago attorneys whose fees
would not exceed 25% of the amount recovered. The Union's
answer admitted, inter alia, that it had engaged in the practice of
protecting its members against large fees and incompetent counsel
and that Union members were reimbursed- for transporting injured
members to the legal counsel's offices. On the basis of the pleadings and one witness' testimony that a large number of Michigan
FELA claimants were represented by the Union's Chicago counsel,
the trial court issued an injunction. While that decision wason
apleal, this Court decided Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen v.
Virginia State Bar, 377 U. S. 1, and the Michigan Supreme Court
thereafter remanded the case to the trial court for further consideration. Following respondent's motion for judgment, that
court, adopting the decree entered against the Union in Trainmen
after this Court's remand, enjoined the Union from "giving or
furnishing legal advice to its members or their families"; furnishing attorneys the names of injured members or information relating to their injuries; accepting compensation for the solicitation of
legal employment for any lawiyer; and from controlling the lawyer's
fees. The Michigan Supreme Court affirmed. Held: The injunction issued against the Union in this case violated its right under
the First and Fourteenth Amendments to engage in group activity
to enable its members to meet the costs of legal representation and
otherwise to secure meaningful access to the courts, Trainmen,
supra; United Mine Workers v. Illinois State Bar Assn., 389 U. S.
217; NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415. Pp. 579-586.
383 Mich. 201, 174 N. W. 2d 811, reversed.
BLACK, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BRGER,
C. J., and DOUGLAS, BRENNAN, and MARSHALL, JJ., joified. HARLAN,

UNITED TRANSPORTATION UNION v. MICHIGAN BAR 577
576

Opinion of the Court

J., filed an opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part, post,
p. 586. WHrrE, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part, in which BLACKMUN, J., joined, post, p. 600. STEWART,
J., took no part in the decision of the case.
John J. Naughton argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
A. D. Ruegsegger argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Phillip C. Kelly and Louis
Rosenzweig.
J. Albert Woll, Laurence Gold, and Thomas E. Harris
filed a brief for the American Federation of Labor and
Congress of Industrial Organizations as amicus curiae
urging reversal.
MR.JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Michigan State Bar brought this action in January 1959 to enjoin the members of the Brotherhood of
Railroad Trainmen' from engaging in activities undertaken for the stated purpose of assisnng their fellow
workers, their widows and families, to protect themselves
from excessive fees at the hands of incompetent attorneys
in suits for damages under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.2 The complaint charged, as factors relevant
to the cause of action, that the Union recommended
selected attorneys to its members and their families,
that it secured a commitment from those attorneys that
the maximum fee charged would not exceed 25% of the
recovery, and that it recommended Chicago. lawyers to
represent Michigan claimants. The State Bar's complaint appears to be a plea for court protection of unI On January 1, 1969, after the decree was entered in the court
below, the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen merged into a newly
created union, the United Transportation Union. The successor
union is the petitioner in this case.
2 35 Stat. 65, as amended, 45 U. S. C. §§ 51-60.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

limited legal fees. The Union's answers admitted that
it had engaged in the practice of protecting members
against large fees and incompetent counsel; that since
1930 it had recommended, with respect to FELA claims,
that injured member employees, and their families, consult attorneys designated by the Union as "Legal Counsel"; -that prior to March 1959, it had informed the
injured'members and their families that the legal counsel would not charge in excess of 25% of any recovery;
and.'that Union representatives were reimbursed for
transporting injured employees, or their 'families, to the
legal counsel 'offices.
The only evidence introduced in this case was the testimony of one employee of the Association of American
Railroads in 1961 that from 1953 'through 1960 a large
number of Michigan FELA claimants were represented
by' the -Union's designated Chicago legal counsel. Based
on- this evidence and the Union's admissions set "out
above, the state trial court in 1962 issued an order
enjoining the Union's activities on the ground that they
violated the state statute making it. a misdemeanor to
"solicit" damage suits against railroads. 3 The Union
appealed to the Michigan Supreme Court, but before
the case was argued on appeal, this Court handed down
its decision in Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen v.. Virginia State Bar, 377 U. S. 1 (1964), involving a similar
injunction secured by the Virginia State Bar against the
Union. We held in that case that the First Amendment
guarantees of -free speech, petition, and assembly give
3 Section 750.410, Mich. Comp. Laws (1948), in relevant part,
provides:
'Any person . . . or organization of any kind, either incorporated
)r unincorporated . . . who shall directly or indirectly . . . solicit
any person injured as the result of an accident . . . for the purpose
of representing such person in making claim for damages . . .'shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor . .. .

UNITED TRANSPORTATION UNION v. MICHIGAN BAR 579
576

Opinion of the Court

railroad, workers the right to cooperate in helping and
advising one another in asserting their rights under the
.FELA. While not deciding every question that possibly

could be raised, our opinion left no doubt that workers
have a right under the First Amendment to act collectively to secure good, honest lawyers to assert their
claims against railroads.
Acknowledging our decision in Trainmen, the Michigan Supreme Court remanded the instant case to the
state trial c6urt with permission for amendment of the
complaint "to seek, if it be so advised, relief not inconsistent with the Supreme Court's said opinion." 374
-Mich. 152, 155, 132 N. W. 2d 78, 79. After remand, the
State Bar made a motion for further proceedings. That
motion was heard on February 5, 1965, at which time
the Bar declined to amend its complaint. For reasons
not explained in the record, the case lingered in the trial
court until May 24, 1968. On that date, after a motion
for judgment by the State Bar and arguments on the
motion, the trial court adopted verbatim the injunction
entered in the Virginia stgte courts after our remand in
Trainmen.
In affirming the trial court decree, the material part
of which is set out below,4 the Michigan Supreme Court
.gave our holding in Trainmen the narrowest, possible
4The

decree entered by the Michigan trial court permanently
restrained and enjoined the Union:
"from giving or furnishing legal advice to its members or their
families; from informing any lawyer or lawyers that an accident has
been suffered by a member or non-member of the said Brotherhood
and furnishing the name and address of such injured or deceased
person for the purpose of obtaining legal employment for any
lawyer.; from stating or suggesting that a recommended lawyer
will defray expenses of any kind or make advances for any purpose
to such injured persons or their families pending settlement of their
claim; from controlling, directly or indirectly, the fees charged or

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

reading,5 focusing only on the specific literal language
of the injunctive provisions challenged in that case
rather than the broad range of union activities held to
be protected by the First Amendment. Similarly, the
Michigan court erroneously restricted our holding in
United Mine Workers v. Illinois State Bar Assn., 389
U. S. 217 (1967), to "the operative portion" of.the
Illinois decree prohibiting any financial connection between the attorney and the Union. The Michigan Supreme Court failed to follow our decisions in Trainmen,
United Mine Workers, and NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S.
415 (1963), upholding the First Amendment principle
that groups can unite to assert their legal rights as effectively and economically as practicable. When applied,
as it must be, to -the Union's activities reflected in the
record of this case, the First Amendment forbids the
restraints imposed by the injunction here under review
for the following among other reasons.
First. The decree approved by the Michigan Supreme
Court enjoins the Union from "giving or furnishing legal
advice to its members or their families." Given its
broadest meaning, this provision would bar the Union's
members, officers, agents, or attorneys from giving any
kind of advice or counsel to an injured worker or his
family concerning his FELA claim. In Trainmen we
upheld the commonsense proposition that such activity
is protected by the First Amendment. Moreover, the
to be charged by any lawyer; from accepting or receiving compensation of any kind, directly or indirectly, for the solicitation of legal
employment for any lawyer, whether by way of salary, commission
or otherwise; from sharing in any manner in the legal fees of any
lawyer or countenancing the splitting of or sharing in such fees
with any layman or lay agency; and from sharing in any recovery
for personal injury or death by- gift, assignment or otherwise."
5383 Mich. 201, 174 N. W. 2d 811.

UNITED TRANSPORTATION UNION v. MICHIGAN BAR 581
576

Opinion of the Court

plain meaning of this particular injunctive provision
would emphatically -deny the right of the Union to
employ counsel- to represent its members, a right explicitly upheld in United Mine Workers 6 and NAACP v.

Button.
We cannot accept the restricted interpretation of this
provision urged by the State Bar, and accepted by our
-Brother HARLAw,that it only prohibits the Union or its
members themselves from "practicing law." The record
is devoid of any evidence or allegation of such conduct
on the part of the Union or its members. A d6cree must
relate specifically ana exclusively to the pleadings and
proof. If not so related, the provision, because of its
vagueness, will jeopardize the exercise of protected freedoms. This injunction, like.a criminal statute, prohibits
conduct under fear of punishment. Therefore, we look
at the injunction as we look at a statute, and if upon
its face it abridges rights guaranteed by the First Amendment, it should be struck down. Our statement in
NAACP v. Button concerningthe statute there in question is equally applicable to the injunction now before
us: "[W]e cannot assume that, in its subsequent enforcement, ambiguities will be resolved in favor of adequate
protection of First Amendment rights." 371 U. S.,
at 438.
Second. The decree also enjoins the Union from furnishing to any attorney the-names of iiijured members
or information relating to their injuries. The investigation of accidents by Union staff for purposes of gathering
evidence to assist the injured worker or his family in
asserting FELA claims was part of the Union practice
6 The decree overturned in United Mine Workers also enjoined
the union from: "Giving legal counsel and advice." 389 U. S., at
218 n. 1. It was conceded in that case that the provision was
directed at the Union's employment of an attorney.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S:

upheld in Trainmen. 377 U. -S., at 4 n. 8. It would
seem at least a little strange now to hold that the Union

cannot communicate that information to the injured
member's attorney.,
Third. A provision of the decree enjoins the members
of the Union from "accepting or receiving compensation
of any kind, directly or indirectly, for the solicitation of
legal employment for .any lawyer, whether by way of
salary, commission or otherwise." The Union conceded
that prior to 1959, Union representatives were reimbursed for their actual time spent and out-of-pocket
expenses incurred -in bringing injured members or their
families to the offices of the legal counsel. Since the
.members of a union have a First Amendment right to
help and advise each other in securing effective legal
representation, there can be no .doubt that transportation of injured members to an attorney's office is within
the scope of that protected activity. To the extent that
Our Brother

HARLAN

suggests that-the injured member should

be free to direct the collected information to whatever lawyer he
chooses, rather than for the Union to give it to the Union's
recommended legal counsel. 'However, the injunction prohibits the
Union from furnishing the information to "any lawyer," apparently
including both recommended and nonrecommended counsel alike.The injunction would prohibit the injured member's attorney, regardless of whether or- not he was recommended by 'the Union, from
communicating with - the -Union's representative who investigated
-the accident, is familiar with the facts, and, other than the injured
hiember himself, is probably the" person most qualified to answer
the attorney's questions' and assist in prepartion of the claim.
To, satisfy the Michigan court's notion that direct communication
between the Union and the member's attorney is somehow unlawful,
it seems our Brother HARLAN would restrict the Union's efforts,
which we expressly approved.in Trainmen, of -assisting the injured
member in preparing his. case for trial, to a written accident report
filed with the injured member.

UNITED TRANSPORTATION UNION v. MICHIGAN BAR 583
576

Opinion of the Court

the injunction prohibits this practice, it is invalid under
Trainmen, United Mine Workers, and NAACP v. Button.
Fourth. Our Brothers HARLiw and WHITE apparently
accept the State Bar contention that the provision prohibiting compensation io Union representatives for solicitation refers to compensation paid by the attorney'rather
than the Union. And so interpreted, it supplements the
two provisions' which prohibit the Union from sharing in
legal fees received by the recommended counsel. There
is no basis for this restraint. Such activity is not even
suggested in the complaint. There is not a line of evidence concerning such practice in the record in this
case. If there is any- such suggestion, it is in records in
other cases involving 6ther parties in other courts, records
upon which we believe our Brother HARLA erroneously
seeks to rely. In fact, the explanation for the appearance
of the provisions in this decree appears to be the Michigan
court's verbatim adoption of a Virginia injunction issued
in a different case on different pleadings relating to different facts. Decrees between litigants should not rest
on any such unsupportable basis as this.
Our Brother HAiAiq appears to concede that the State
B'ar has neither alleged nor proved that the Union has
engaged in the past, is presently engaging, or plans to
engage, in the sharing of legal fees. Nonetheless, he
suggests that the injunction against such conduct is
justified in order to remove any "temptation" for the
Union to participate in such activities. We cannot accept this novel concept of equity jurisdiction that would
ppen the courts to claims for injunctions against "temptation," and would deem potential "temptation" to be
a sufficient basis for the issuance of an injunction. • Indeed, it would appear that jurisdiction over "teniptation"
has heretofore been reserved to the churches.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court,

401 U. S.

An injunction can issue only after the plaintiff has
established that the conduct sought to be enjoined is
illegal and that the defendant, if not enjoined, will engage in such conduct. In Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v.
Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229, 262 (1917), this Court struck
the portions of a decree enjoining a union from picketing
and physical violence because there was no evidence
that either of these forms of interference was threatened.'
Likewise in the present case, with respect to the prohibition against sharing legal fees, the State Bar simply has
made no showing that such conduct was threatened.
Indeed, it has made no showing at all. Therefore, that
provision of the decree, to use an often quoted slogan,
would appear to be not only unjustified, but also "arbitrary and capricious."
Fifth. Finally, the challenged decree bars the Union
from controlling, directly or indirectly, the fees charged
by any lawyer. The complaint alleged that the Union
sought to protect its members from excessive legal fees
by securing an agreement from the counsel it recommends that the fee will not exceed 25% of the recovery,
and that the percentage will include all expenses incidental to investigation and litigation. The Union in its
answer admitted that prior to 1959 it secured such agreements for the protection of its members.
United Mine Workers *upheld the right
of workers to
act collectively to obtain affordable and effective legal
representation. One of the abuses sought to be remedied by the Mine Workers' plan was the situation pursuant to which members "were required to pay forty or
fifty per cent of the amounts recovered in damage suits,
for attorney fees." 389 U. S., at 219. The Mine
8

Mr. Justice Brandeis dissented on the ground that this principle
should have been applied to strike the other provisions of the
injunction as well. 245.U. S., at 263 (Brandeis, J., dissenting).

UNITED TRANSPORTATION UNION v. MICHIGAN BAR 585
576

Opinion of the Court

Workers dealt with the problem by employing an attorney on a salary basis, thereby providing free legal representation for its members in asserting their claims before
the state workmen's compensation board. The Union
in the instant case sought to protect its members against
the same abuse by limiting the fee charged by recommended attorneys. It is hard to believe that a court of
justice would deny a cooperative union of workers the
right to protect its injured members, and their widows
and children, from the injustice of excessive fees at the
hands of inadequate counsel. Indeed, the Michigan
court was foreclosed from so doing by our decision in
United Mine Workers."
In the context of this case we deal with a cooperative
union of workers seeking to assist its members in effectively asserting claims under the FELA. But the principle here involved cannot be limited to the facts of this
case. At issue is the basic right to group legal action, a
right first asserted in this Court by an association of
Negroes seeking the protection of freedoms guaranteed
by the Constitution. The common thread running
through our decisions in NAACP v. Button, Trainmen,
and United Mine Workers is that collective activity undertaken to obtain meaningful access to the courts is a
fundamental right within the protection of the First
Amendment. However, that right would be a hollow
promise if courts could deny associations of workers or
OThe injunction also bars the Union "from stating or suggesting
that a recommended lawyer will defray expenses of any, kind or
make advances for any purpose to such injured persons or their
families pending settlement of their claim." The only allegation
in the complaint possibly relating to this injunctive provision is
that the Union representatives informed the injured members that
the 25% fee included all expenses. This provision of the injunction,
therefore, is invalid for the same reasons that the .provision limiting
fees is invalid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of

HARLAN, J.

401 U. S.

others the means of enabling their members to meet
the costs of legal representation. That was the holding
in United Mine Workers, Trainmen, and NAACP v.
Button. The injunction in the present case cannot stand
in the face of these prior decisions.
Reversed.
MR. JusTIcE STEWART took no part in the decision of
this case.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAi, concurring in part and dissenting
in part.
The Court's conclusions with respect to the issues
presented by the case at bar are, in my view, flawed by
the absence of any examination of the relationship be
tween this case and the substantially contemporaneoub
proceedings in Illinois and Virginia against the same
union with respect to the same charges of unprofessional
conduct in the Brotherhood's "Legal Aid Department."
I
The history of the establishment of the Legal Aid Department and the early attacks upon it by state and
local bar associations, with the assistance and-encouragement of the Association of American Railroads, has been
fully recounted elsewhere. See Bodle, Group Legal
Services: The Case for BRT, 12 U. C. L. A. L. Rev. 306,.
307-317 (1965); Note, 50 Cornell L. Q. 344 (1965). The
most significant point in this history, for present purposes, came in the late 1950's. With disciplinary proceedings pending against its Regional Counsel in Chicago,1 the,
Brotherhood counterattacked by moving in the Supreme
Coirt of Illinois for a declaration that the Brotherhood's
plan was both legal and compatible with the minimum
The Chicago Regional Counsel had jurisdiction over the lower
peninsula of Michigan, where this lawsuiwas brought. .App. 14.

UNITED TRANSPORTATION UNION v. MICHIGAN BAR 587

576

Opinion of HARLAN, J.

standards of professional conduct. After hearings before
a special commissioner, the Illinois court found that the
basic facts with respect to the operation of the Legal
Aid Department were not seriously disputed:
"As it presently operates, the legal aid department
of the Brotherhood maintains .a central office in
Cleveland, Ohio, at the national headquarters of the
Brotherhood. In that office it has a staff consisting
of a chief clerk, a research analyst, three stenographers and a file clerk.. It also has a number of
regional investigators. The Cleveland. office serves
as a clearing house which receives reports from all
Brotherhood Lodges of instances in which members
have been injured or, killed in railroad accidents.
It notifies the appropriate regional investigator and
regional counsel of all accidents.
"By agreement with the Brotherhood the attorneys who are designated as regional counsel charge
a fee of twenty-five" per cent of the amount recovered in each case, whether recovery is by settlement or by judgment. Regional counsel have also
agreed to and do pay all court costs, investigation
costs, costs of doctors' examinations, expert witness
fees, transcript costs and the cost of printing briefs
on appeal. They also pay the total cost of operating the legal aid department of the union [including
the department's ratable share of the expenses of
the Brotherhood's conventions]. All expenses of the
legal aid department are apportioned among the
sixteen regional counsel in the ratio that their respective gross fees bear 'to the total gross recoveries
throughout.the country ....

"The Brotherhood constitution requires that each
local lodge appoint someone whose duty it is to fill
out an accident report whenever a member is in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of

HARLAN, J.

401 U. S.

jured, and also to make contact with the injured
man, or the- relatives of a man who is killed, and
make it known that legal advice will be given free
of charge by the regional counsel. He also makes
known the availability of regional counsel to handle
the claim and any ensuing litigation for a total
charge of twenty-five per cent of the amount recovered by settlement or by litigation. The twentyfive per cent includes all expenses of investigation
and litigation'.
"The lodge member who investigates the occurrence and makes contact with the injured man recomimends and urges that regional counsel be consulted and employed. These men carry blank copies
of contracts employing the regional counsel's firm
as attorneys. The regional investigators employed
by the legal aid department also carry these contracts. If a signed contract is not obtained by an
investigator in the field, an investigator often brings
the interested parties to the office of the regional
counsel in Chicago. The injured man may be accompanied by his wife, and if the interested party
is a widow, the wife of the investigator also makes
the trip. The expenses of these trips are paid immediately by regional counsel. The lodge member
who investigates and urges the employment of regional counsel is also compensated by regional
counsel at his regular hourly wage rate for time
spent in investigating the case and in making the
trip to Chicago. These amounts are paid whether
or not the regional counsel is -retained, and regardless of the ultimate outcome. In addition [the regional counsel in Chicago] testified, 'There are many
times when one of the boys will bring in a case,
and taking care of the investigation, etc., they are

UNITED TRANSPORTATION UNION v. MICHIGAN BAR 589
576

Opinion of Euu , J.

given a gratuity of $100 or $150.'" In re Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, 13 Ill. 2d 391, 392-395,
150 N. E. 2d 163, 165-166 (1958).
On the basis of the facts thus found, the court laid down
the following guidelines to indicate to the Brotherhood
what it could and could not do in connection with personal injury and wrongful death claims with respect to
its members:
"We are of the 'opinion -that the Brotherhood may
properly maintain a staff to investigate injuries to
its members.' It may so conduct those investigations
that their results are of maximum value to its members in prosecuting their individual claims, and it
may make the reports of those investigations available to the injured man or his survivors. Such investigations can be financed directly and without
undue burden by the 218,000 members of the
Brotherhood.
"The ;Brotherhood may also make known to its
members generally, and to injured members, and
their survivors in particular, first, the advisability of
obtaining legal advice before 'making a settlement
and second, the names of attorneys who, in its opinion, have the capacity to hafdle such claims successfully. Its emljoyees, however, may not carry
contracts f6r the employment of any lawyer, or
photostats of settlement checks. No financial con• nection of any kind between the'Brotherhood and
.any lawyer is permissible. No lawyer can properly
pay any amount whatsoever to the Brotherhood or
any of its departments, officers or members as compensation, reimbursement of expenses or gratuity
in connection with the procurement of 'case.. Nor
can the' Brotherhoodfik the fees to be charged for
services' to its members. The' relationship of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of

HAILAr, J.

401 U. S.

attorney to his client must remain an individual and
a personal one.
"The course thus outlined, if adopted, will make
it possible for the Brotherhood to achieve its legitimate objectives without tearing down the standards
of the legal profession." Id., at 397-398, 150 N. E.
2d, at 167-168.
The court gave the Brotherhood over a year, until July 1,
1959, to bring itself into compliance with these standards.
Id., at 399, 150 N. E. 2d, at 168.
The decree thus rendered appeared to satisfy both the
Brotherhood and the Bar. See Note, 50 Cornell L. Q.
344, 348 and n. 32 (1965); Bodle, Group Legal Services:
The Case for BRT, 12 U.. C. L. A. L. Rev. 306, 317 (1965).
By letter dated March 16, 1959, the president of the
Brotherhood directed all legal counsel "to live up to said
opinion in its entirety" on pain of being removed from
office and repoitted to the local bar association. The letter
also announced that "[t]he Brotherhood will finance
its Legal Aid Department, and will investigate accidents
so that it will be acquainted with the cause of said accidents, and by so doing will be able to remedy any violation of the Federal Employers' Liability Act and the
Safety Appliance Act. The result of such investigation
shall be made available only to the injured person"
App. 16-17. The opinion of the Illinois court and the
letter of the BRT president directing compliance therewith became the basis for consent judgments in Nebraska,2
Missouri,' and several other States.4
2State

ex rel. Beck v. Lush, 170 Neb. 376, 103 N. W. 2d 136

(1960).
3
Hulse v. Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, 340 S. W. 2d 404
(Mo. 1960).

4 Initially it appeared ihat a consen' decree might be entered in
the Michigan procc3dings, but this possibility never eventuated
App. 30-31.

UNITED TRANSPORTATION UNION v. .MICHIGAN BAR 591
576

Opinion of HE.AN, J.

The Virginia Bar, however, was not content with the
anti-solicitation measures ordered by the Illinois court,'
and it pressed for and obtained a more sweeping decree.. That decree, as originally entered, restrained the
Brotherhood
"[1] from giving or furnishing legal advice to its
members or their families; [2] from holding out
lawyers selected by it as the only approved lawyers
to aid the members or their families; [3] from informing any lawyer that an accident has obcurred
and furnishing the name arid address of an injured
or deceased member for the purpose of obtaining
legal employment for such lawyer; [4] or in any other
manner solicitijg or encouraging such legal employ,ment of the selected. lawyers; [5] from stating or
suggesting that such selected lawyers will defray expenses and make advances to clients pending settlement of -claims; [6] from controlling, directly or
indirectly, fees charged or to be charged by any lawyer; [7] from making compensation for the solicitation of legal employment for.any lawyer, whether by
way of salary, commission or otherwise; [8] from in
any manner sharing in the legal fees of any lawyer, or
countenancing the splitting of such fees with any
layman or lay agency; [9] and from doing any act
or combination of acts, and from formulating and
putting into. 'practice any plan, pattern or design,
the result of which is to channel legal employiment
to any particular lawyer or group of lawyers;
[10] and, in general, from violating the laws govern5 See the testimony of -petitioner's president during pretrial proceedings in the Virginia case that "[i]f we thought for a moment"
that a consent d..cree along the lines of the Illhiois opinion would be
acceptable "we would make it effective tomorrow." App. 91,
Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen v. Vi','gnia ex rel. Virginia State
Bar, 377 U. S. 1 (1964).

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of

HARaN, J.

401 U. S.

ing the practice of law in the Commonwealth of
Virginia." Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen v.
Commonwealth ex rel. Virginia State Bar, 207
Va. 182, 184 n. 1, 149 S. E. 2d 265, 266-267, n. 1
(1966) (numbers have been inserted for convenient
reference).
The Brotherhood sought and obtained review by this
Court, limiting its attack to the provisions numbered
(2), (4), and (9) above. See Brotherhood of Railroad
Trainmen v. Virginia ex rel. Virginia State Bar, 377 U. S.
1, 4-5 (1964). This was apparently the result of a tactical decision, for it enabled the Brotherhood to argue that
it had acquiesced in the restraints imposed on its activities
by the Illinois Supreme Court, which that court had held
were adequate to protect the ethics of the legal profession and the public interest.' The Brotherhood therefore could take the position that it contested the Virginia
decree only because "the [Virginia] Bar sought a more
restrictive injunction than the Illinois opinion suggested."
Reply Brief 29, Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen v.
Virginia ex rel. Virginia State Bar, No. 34, 0. T. 1963.
This Court accepted the Brotherhood's co'ntentions and
reversed. On remand, the Virginia courts deleted the
6 The

Court acknowledged'this limitation on the Brotherhood's
contentions:
"Certain other provisions of the decree enjoin the 'Brotherhood
from sharing counsel fees with lawyers whom it recommended and
from countenancing the sharing of fees by its regional investigators.

The Brotherhood denies that it has engaged in such practices since
1959, in compliance with a decree of the Supreme Court of Illinois.
See In re Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, 13 Ill. 2d 391, 150

N. E. 2d 163. Since the Brotherhood is not objecting to the other
provisions of the decree except insofar as they might later be construed as barring the BrotherhQod from helping injured workers

or their families by recommending that they not settle without a
lawyer and by recommending certain lawyers selected by the Brotherhood, it 'is only to that extent that we pass upon the validity of the

other provisions."

377 U. S., at 5

A.-

UNITED TRANSPORTATION UNION v. .MICHIGAN BAR 593
576

Opinion of

HARLAN, J.

provisions struck down by this Court, replaced provision
(10) with a prohibition on "sharing in any recov'ery for
personal injury or death by gift, assignment or otherwise," altered the wording of the remaining provisions in
minor respects, and upheld the modified decree as consistent with this Court's mandate. 207 Va. 182, 149
S. E. 2d 265 (1966). The Brotherhood did not seek review of this decision, and it became final in due course.
II
Given this background, with vhich counsel below and
the trial judge were generally familiar, the proceedings
now under review appear in a substantially different
posture. The State Bar's complaint charged unlawful
solicitation of business. *The Brotherhood's answer, after
admitting the charges in some respects and denying them
in others, set up the Illinois Supreme Court opinion as
an affirmative defense, noting that the Michigan State
Bar had been aware of that proceeding and had assisted
in it, although it was not formally a party. The answer
observed that the Illinois court had declared certain
features of the Brotherhood's activities lawful and other
features unlawful and directed the discontinuance of the
latter. The answer then averred that after the filing
of the Michigan complaint the Brotherhood had brought
itself into compliance with the Illinois opinion. The
answer quoted the above-mentioned letter from the
Brotherhood's president as proof. On this basis, the
Brotherhood contended that the conduct complained of
either was permissible or had terminated, so that the
bill should be dismissed for want of equity and for mootness. App. 15-17.
In its reply the State Bar specifically relied on the
Brotherhood's admissions in the Illinois proceedings and
the findings of thepIllinois court as working an estoppel of
the defendants with respect to at least some of-the matters

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of HARnL~,

J.

401 U. S.

there in issue. App. 20-24. 7 However, the reply leaves
unclear just what the Bar considered to be involved in
the Michigan lawsuit. It described the Michigan Bar's
cause of action as both broader and narrower than the
Illinois lawsuit. App. 23-24. The next pleading filed,
a "Statement of Claim," did little to clarify matters.
It referred only to the Brotherhood's scheme of solicitation of legal business, but included allegations that as
part of the scheme regional counsel made payments to
the Brotherhood and to regional investigators and also
contributed to the financial support of clients during the
pendency of litigation. App. 29.
The trial judge apparently sought to clear up the confusion as to just what was in issue by including in the
pretrial summary a provision that "[i] n the event there
is not a consent decree, defendants have been requested
to advise what issue in Michigan is different than in the
other states where consent decrees have entered." App.
30. There is nothing in the record to indicate that the
defendants responded to this request in a way designed
to limit the issues to solicitation.
After the initial hearing in this case the trial judge
entered a decree that inter alia prohibited the Brotherhood from "[e]ngaging in any activity, conduct or-endeavor condemned by the Supreme Court of Illinois in In
re Brotherhood of 'Railroad Trainmen." App. 117. In
this connee4ion he observed that "although certain specific
activities and conduct as contained in the Illinois decision
were not specifically pleaded in the instant suit, nevertheless, by the defendants' answer, they have been indirectly
injected into thif litigation and should be' covered by
the Court's order." App. 112. Inasmuch as the activi7

The reply also referred in passing to actions in courts of other

States where the Brotherhood has been condemned for engaging in
"the same or similar practices as those at issue in this cause."

App.

UNITED TRANSPORTATION UNION v. MICHIGAN BAR 595

576

Opinion of

HARIAN,

J.

ties referred to, see supra,at 587-589, were directly related
to the solicitation charged in the State Bar's complaint,
I consider this decisiorn by the judge to be entirely
justifiable.
While it is unfortunate that the record is as stale
as it is, there is ample evidence to indicate that the
Brotherhood's conduct, at least as of the time the bill
of complaint was filed, was of such a character as to call
for the decree before us. The Brothrhood, despite its
repeated allegations that the objectionable features- of
this conduct ceased in April 1959., failed to introduce any
proof to 'that* effect during the evidentiary hearing in
1961. In the 1965 and 1968 proceedings .on remand from
the Michigan. Supreme Court, the Brotherhood did not
request a reopening of the record, or even assert that
there had been any significant change in factual circumstances since the original proceedings. Moreover, Michigan law provides for modification of a continuing injunction upon a proper showing of changed circumstances. See First Protestant Reformed Church v. DeWolf, 358 Mich. 489, 495; 100 N. W. 2d 254, 257 (1960)
(dictum), citing United States v. Swift & Co., 286 U. S.
106, 114 (1932). With matters in this posture, I am
content to pass on the validity of the decree despite the
state of the record.
III
I agree that, in light of this Court's recent decisions,
one portion of the Michigan decre6--that prohibiting the
union from controlling the fees charged by attorneys--:
cannot stand. In United Mine Workers y. Illinois Bar
Assn., 389.U. S..-217 (1967), the Coutt hdfd that as
a matter of federal constitutional law a labor union is
bntitled to engage an attorney to iepresent its members
in rhatters bf collective interest, free of direct financial
charge to- them. While I 'believed then and still believe
than, this was an un6ound piece of constitutional acIjudi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1970

Opinion of

HARuN,

J.

401 U. S.

cation, I am unable to distinguish the facts of Mine
Workers from those in the case at bar, where a union
agreed with attorneys as to the maximum fee to be
charged its members in matters of collective interest.
Despite the Brotherhood's prior acquiescence in the decrees in Virginia and other States, I find the unforeseeable change in the law wrought by the Mine Workers
decision sufficient to justify reneving it from the consequences of taking that position. See Restatement of
Judgments § 70 (1942); 1B J. Moore, Federal Practice
10.448 (1965). I therefore concur .in the Court's vacating this portion of the Michigan decree. In all other
respects I think the decree is consistent with our past
decisions and otherwise valid.
The first portion of that decree prohibits the Brotherhood from "giving or furnishing legal advice to its members or their families." I do not understand that the
Court's "commonsense" approach to the First Amendment extends to the point that laymen are constitutionally entitled to give legal advice to other laymen. I think
it plain that the provision was intended to prohibit only
such conduct. It is manifestly based on the Virginia
decree, where the corresponding provision was supported
by the chancellor's finding that "[i]n furtherance of the
the defendant Brotherhood has advised, and continues to advise, its members and the families of deceased members with respect to the legal aspects of their
claims." 207 Va., at 183 n. 1, 149 S. E. 2d,'at 266 n. 1.
The provision is also related to the prohibition in the 1962
Michigan decree against "[t]elling any person or his representatives that said person has a cause of action, the
amount he is entitled to recover, where suit should be
filed, or doing any other act or thing which constitutes the
practice of law within the State of Michigan." App. 117.
I .therefore can only consider fanciful the Court's suggestion that the "'plain meaning" of this prohibition "would

-plan

UNITED TRANSPORTATION UNION v. MICHIGAN BAR 597
576

Opinion of

HARLAN,

J.

emphatically deny the right of the Union to'employ counsel to represent its members." Ante, at 581. In any
event, if there is any ambiguity in the decree the appropriate course is to clarify it, not to strike it down.
The second provisioni of the decree, prohibiting the
Brotherhood from furnishing attorneys with information
about accidents and the names and addresses of injured workers, orders it to refrain from conduct that
it averred but did not prove had been terminated.
Nothing in our prior decisions approves the solicitation
of business by lawyers except insofar as the solicitation
may be correlative to the rights of the clients. See
Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen v. Virginia ex rel.
Virginia State Bar, 377 U. S., at 8. There is no reason
in terms of First Amendment interests why the .Brotherhood should not be obliged to give the results of its investigations to the injured person to take to whatever
lawyer he chooses rather than for the Brotherhood to give
it to the lawyer it prefers. The provision is plainly appropriate as a means of ensuring that the injured workman has a truly fiee choice. In effect this provision of
the decree is designed to fend against "ambulance chasing," an activity that I can hardly suppose the Court
thinks is protected by the First Amendment.
Another provision of the decree prohibits the Brotherhood and its members from "stating or suggesting that a
recommended lawyer will defray expenses of any kind
or make advances for any purpose to such injured persons or their families pending settlement of their claim."
I think it a close question whether the conduct thus
proscribed is protected under this Court's opinion in
Brotherhood ofRailroad Trainmen v. Virginia ex rel.
Virginia State Bar, supra. As petitioner admits, while
it is not generally improper for an attorney to make
advances to clients, it is considered improper for him
to use the fact that he makes them as a drawing card

o

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1970

Opinion of HARAN, J.

401 U. S.

in an effort to secur6 professional employment. At
the same time, there* is no contention made that the
representation thus proscribed is inaccurate, and misapprehension on this score may well be the determinative
factor in an injured man's decision not to seek legal
advice in connection with his claim. On balance, I con-,
elude that the equities do not call for relieving petitioner
of its considered decision to acquiesce in this portion of
the Virginia decree and the corresponding portions of
consent decrees entered in other States.
The remaining provisions of the decree prohibit the
Brotherhood from sharing in legal fees or recoveries, and
prohibit the members from accepting compensatioi for
solicitation of business for a lawyer. These provisions
are entirely appropriate to remove any temptation for the
representatives of the Brotherhood to overbear the injured man's choice of legal representation. They prohibit conduct which has long beeli considered unethical,
and which in no significant way "advances the interests
that the Court's prior decisions in this field sought to
protect.' I see no basis whatever for striking down these
provisions of the decree.'
I
. 8 The Brotherhood explicitly admitted in its answer 'that its
members had in the past received compensation from regional
counsel for services in furnishing clients, App. 17, and the opinion
of the Illinois Supreme Court, on which, the Brotherhood relied,
detailed the manner ih which regional counsel were required to
support the Brotherhood's Legal Aid Department. See supra,at 587.
This scheme was the end product of an evolution from more direct
forms of fee splitting, a process described in Hulse v. Brotherhood
of Rtdlroad Trainmen., 340 S. W. 2d 404, 408-409 (Mo. 1960). The
court below, having found the evil in a matured form, was entitled
to proscribe as. well the straightforward manifestation in which it,
had begun. Moreover, it is well settled that a court of equity, like
an administiative agency, "cannot be required to confine its road
block to the narrow lane the transgressor has traveled; it must be
allowed effectively to close all roads to the prohibited goal,.so that
its order may not be by-passed with impunity." FTC v. Ruberoid

UNITED TRANSPORTATION UNION v. MICHIGAN BAR 599

576

Opinion of HARL , J.

For these reasons I Would sustain the judgment of the
Michigan Supreme Court, with the exception already
noted for the prohibition on controlling the fees charged
by any lawyer. However, it is appropriate for me to
make a few general remarks in closing. I share my
Brothers' concern with the problems of providing meaningful access to competent legal advice for persons in the
middle and lower economic strata of our society. This
is a matter of public concern deserving our best efforts
at resolution, a task that the organized bar may be
thought to have been too slow in recognizing. Nor do
I condone, any more than my Brethren, the nefarious
practices that called forth the Brotherhood's plan before
us today.
But the issue presented for decision is not. the desirability of group legal services, or the ways in which
the traditional concepts of professional ethics should be

modified to take account of the changes in social structure
and social needs since the 19th century. The issue,
rather, is the scope left by the Federal Constitution for
state action in the regulation of the practice of law. Despite the First Amendment implications of denial of access
to the courts in other situations, see NAACP v. Button,
371 U. S. 415, 452-455 (1963) (dissenting opinion), all
that is involved here is a combination of purchasers of
services seeking to increase their market power. The
relationship to First Amendment interests seems to me
remote at best. Cf. Associated Press v. United States,
326 U. S. 1, 19-20 (1945). Recognizing that a majority
of my Brethren felt otherwise in Brotherhoodof Railroad
Trainmen v. Virginia ex rel. Virginia State Bar, 377 U. S.
1 (1964), and United Mine Workers v. Illinois Bar
Co., 343 U. .S. 470, 473 (1952) (footnote omitted). See, e. g.,
Local 167 v. United States, 291 U. S. 293 (1934); Ethyl Gasoline
Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436 (1940); United States v.
NationalLead Co., 332 U. S. 319 (1947).

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of WHrrE, J.

401 U. S.

Assn., 389 U. S. 217 (1967), I accept their conclusion.
I would not, however, extend those cases further than
is required by their logic. Accordingly, with the one
exception noted, I would affirm the judgment below.
MR. JusTICE WHiTI, with whom MR.JusTIcE BLACKMUN joins, concurring in part and dissenting in part.
The first provision in the decree prohibiting the union
from giving or furnishing legal advice to its members or
their families is overbroad in light of United Mine
Workers v. Illinois Bar Assn., 389 U. S. 217 (1967),
and should be narrowed to prohibit only legal advice by
nonlawyers. Also, I agree with the Court that the portion of. the decree forbidding the setting of fees by
union-lawyer agreement cannot stand. Otherwise, however, I do not Yead the decree as being inconsistent with
our prior cases and I would not now extend them to set
aside this decree in its entirety.

