OCALA STAR-BANNER CO. v. DAMRON
Opinion of the Court

OCALA STAR-BANNER CO.

ET AL.

V. DAMRON

CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL OF FLORIDA,
FIRST DISTRICT

No. 118. Argued December 17, 1970-Decided February 24, 1971
Petitioner newspaper published a false story that respondent, then a
mayor and a candidate for county tax assessor, had been charged
with perjury in federal court, and respondent sued for libel. The
judge instructed the jury that the charge was libelous per se and
that respondent could recover damages without showing malice.
The jury awarded compensatory damages. The judge denied the
newspaper's motion for a new trial on the basis of the "actual
malice" test of New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U. S. 254, on
the ground that the article did not refer to respondent's official
conduct. The Florida District Court of Appeal affirmed, holding
that the New York Times rule did not apply. Held: A charge of
criminal conduct against a public official or a candidate for public
office, no matter how remote in time or place, is always "relevant
to his fitness for office" for purposes of applying the New York
Times rule of knowing falsehood or reckless disregard of the truth.
Monitor Patriot Co. v. Roy, ante, p. 265. Pp. 299-301.
221 So. 2d 459, reversed and remanded.
STEWART, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,
C. J., and HARLAN, BRENNAN, Wiirr,

MARSHALL, and BLACKMUN,

JJ., joined. WnTe; J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 301.
BLACK, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment and dissenting
in part, in which DOUGLAS, J., joined, ante, p. 277.

Harold B. Wahl argued the cause and filed briefs for

petitioners.
Wallace Dunn argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STEWART

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Ocala Star-Banner Co., a petitioner in this case,
publishes a small daily newspaper serving four counties
in rural-FI1rida. On April 18, 1966, the Star-Banner

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

printed a story to the effect that the respondent,
Leonard Damron, then the mayor of Crystal River in
Citrus County and a candidate for the office of county
tax assessor, had been charged in a federal court with
perjury, and that his case had been held over until the
following term of that court.1 This story was false.
The respondent had not been charged with any crime
in federal court, nor had any case involving him been
held over, but the story was substantially accurate as
to his brother, James Damron.2 Two weeks later the
'The story appeared under a three-column head ("Damron Case
Passed Over To Nett U. S. Court Term") and was as follows:
"INGLIS-A case charging local garage ,owner Leonard Damron
with perjury was passed over for the present term of Federal Court
after Damron entered a not guilty plea before Federal Judge Harrold
Carswell in Gainesville.
"Damron, was indicted by a Federal grand jury in Tallahassee last
January and charged with perjury in a 1964 civil case which resulted
in damages of $65,000 being awarded to a Yankeetown couple.
"Mrs. Gail Finley alleged that Levy County Deputy Sammy Cason
slammed on brakes causing her to injure her neck in October of
1962.
"Cason and Deputy Walter Beckham went to Yankeetown with a
warrant for the arrest of Mrs. Jean Rich Sill,_who was allegedly
in the. Izaac Walton Lodge.
'"According to officials, the Finleys interfered with the officers,
-were arrested and charged with interfering with arrest.
"A conviction obtained in C6unty Court has been upheld through
appeals by the 'Florida State Supreme.Cort.
-"The civil suit which followed was filed under an old, 'little-used
federal statute in which the Finleys. charged former sheriff J. W.
Turner and Casofi with a violation of their civil rights.
"Damron'testified that he had seen Mrs Finley in a neck brace
in late 1957 or early, 1958 several years pri6r, to the incident, but
numerous other witnessesj summoned by the plaintiff, gave testimony, saying that Mrs. Finley had not previously worn a brace.
"Damron was released on $2,000 bond, following his arrest'by
federal marshals Jan. 27."
2
The Star-Banner printed twd retractions before the election.

OCALA STAR-BANNER CO. v. DAMRON
295

Opinion of( the Court

respondent was defeated in the election for county tax
assessor.
He filed the present suit against the Star-Banner in.
the Circuit- Court of Marion County, Florida, alleging
that the article was "libelous per se," and that it had
caused him "irreparable damages to his reputation, as,
an individual, public officer, candidate for public office
and as a businessman." He asked $50,000 as compensatory damages and $500,000 as punitive damages. At
the trial, the newspaper did not deny that the story was
wholly' false as to the respondent, and explained the
error a. the result of a "mental aberration" by one of
the paper's area editors., The area editor -had been
working for the paper for a little more than a month.
He testified that he had run several stories' about the
political activities of the respondent, but had never heard
of his brother James. When a local reporter tplephonad
in the story, correctly identifying the protagonist as
James Damron, he inadvertently changed the name.
The respondent presented evidence t6nding to cast doubt
on this explanation.
At the close of the evidence, .the respondent moved
for a directed verdict on the issue of liability, and the
trial judge granted the motion. The case then went to
the jury on the issue of damages, with instructions which
included the following:
"The -Court instructs the Jury that you need not
consider whether a libel has been committed and
instructs you that there must be a findingjin favor
of the Plaintiff in accordance with the other instructions given you by the Court..... You are
instructed that in this case the charge made against
the Plaintiff was libelous, per se, and that it created
a presumption of damage -to the Plaintiff but that

OCTOBER TERM, 1970'
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

if this presumption of damage is overcome by evidence offered by the parties and there is no proof
of general damage to the Plaintiff by a preponderance of the evidence, then you cannot award anything more than nominal damages to the Plaintiff.
The Court instructs the Jury that if you believe
from the evidence and by the instructions of the
Court that thc Plaintiff is entitled to recover from
the Defendants, then in addition to any compensa'tory damages, if any, that he may have-may recover, you may, as hereinafter stated, award the
Plaintiff punitive damages when malice is shown
or implied. . . . The Court instructs the Jury that
malice may be implied or inferred where the charge
of a felony is imputed to the Plaintiff. In other
words, if you are reasonably satisfied from the evidence that the Defendants imputed the charge of
perjury to the Plaintiff, of which he was not guilty,
then you may infer that it was maliciously made
and it is not necessary to prove any express malice
or ill-will in order to warrant a verdict for punitive
damages in favor of the Plaintiff."
The jury awarded Damron compensatory damages of
$22,000 but failed to award any punitive damages.
The Star-Banner moved for a new trial, arguing that
the case should have been sent to the jury under the
"actual malice" test laid down by this Court in New
York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U. S. 254. The trial
judge denied the motion on the ground that New York
Times and later. cases "relating to public officials or public
figures in the official conduct of their office or position
are-not applicable to this cause of action which was
founded upon a newspaper publication of the Defendants
which was libelous per se and made no reference to the
public offices held or sought by the Plaintiff." The

OCALA STAR-BANNER CO. v. DAMRON
295

Opinion of the Court

Florida District Court of Appeal affirmed the judgment,
holding that:
"An examination of the defamatory publication
which gave rise to this case reveals that the plaintiff's official conduct or the manner in which he
performed his duties were not the basis for the
inaccuracy here involved; and, hence, it does not
come within the protection afforded by the rule announced in the New York Times case. It follows
therefore that the trial judge correctly held that it
was unnecessary for the plaintiff to show malice."
221 So. 2d 459,461.
The Supreme Court of Florida refused to review the
judgment, 231 So. 2d 822, and we granted certiorari to
consider the federal constitutional issues presented.3 397
U. S. 1073.
As the mayor of Crystal River, the respondent Leonard
Damron was without question a "public official" within
the meaning given the term in New York Tihes Co. v.
Sullivan, supra. As such, he clearly- fell within the rule
that "prohibits a public official from recovering damages
for a defamatory falsehood relating to his official conduct
unless he proves that -the statement was made with
'actual malice'--that is, with knowledge that it was false
or with reckless disregard of whether it was false or

not." Id., at 279-280. -In his status as a candidate for
the office of county tax assessor, le fell within the same
rule. Monitor Patriot Co. v. Roy, ante, p. 265.
3 The respondent's argument that the newspaper "admitted liability" at trial, and that the constitutional issue of the applicability
of New York Times Co. v.-&divan, 376 U. S. 254, is therefore
not properly before us, must be rejected since both the trial court

on motion for new trial and thestate appellate court considered and
passed upon the constitutional question as though properly raised.
WHYY v. Glassboro, 393 U. S. 117, 119; Raley v. Ohio, 360 U. S.
423, 436; ManhattanLife Ins. Co. v. Cohen, 234 U. S. 123, 134.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

Yet it is clear that the New York Times test was not
applied in the trial of this case. The trial judge himself
resolved the issues of publication and falsehood against
the newspaper. He then instructed the jury that since
the article was "libelous, per se," its only task was to
determine damages. Since the respondent was permitted
to recover without a finding that the newspaper either
knew the article was false or published it in reckless
disregard of its truth -or falsity, the judgment must be
reversed unless there is some basis for saying that the
rule of New York Times does not apply to the particular
libel in question. Henry v. Collins, 380 U.- S. 356;
Curtis Publishing Co. v. Butts, 388 U. S.130, 142-143,
158 (opinion of HARLA, J.); Greenbelt CooperativePublishing Assn. v. Bresler, 398 U. S.6.
The respondent urges upon us that a basis for distinguishing. New York Times does exist, because the
rule of that case applies only to "official conduct," 4 and
a charge of indictment for perjury committed during
testimony in a federal civil rights suit is a purely "private" libel. This contention is disposed of by our decision today in Monitor PatriotCo. v. Roy, supra. In that
case we held that a charge of criminal conduct against
an official or a candidate, no matter how remote in time
or place, is always "relevant to his fitness for office" for
purposes of applying the New York Times rule of knowing falsehood or rdck3ss disregard of the truth. Public
discussion about the qualifications of a candidate for
elective office presents what is probably the strongest
possible case for application of the New York Times
-4New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U. S. 254, 283 n. 23.

Both the trial judge on motion for new trial and the District
Court of Appeal rested their conclusion that New York Times did
not apply partly on the ground that the defamatory article nowhere
mentioned the respondent's status as mayor of Crystal River or as
a candidate for county tax assessor. The respondent has not pursued that theory here.

OCALA STAR-BANNER CO. v. DAMRON
295

WHrrE, J., concurring

rule. And under any test we can conceive, the charge
that a local mayor and candidate for a county elective
post has been indicted for perjury in a civil rights suit
is relevant to his fitness for office. Cf. Garrison v.
Louisiana, 379 U. S. 64, 77.
The First and Fourteenth Amendments ,Tequire reversal of the judgment. The case is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion,
It is so ordered.
[For separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE BLACK, see ante,
p. 277.]
MR. JusTICE WHITE, concurring.*

Inevitably, New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U. S.
254 (1964), by imposing on libei and slander plaintiffs the
burden of showing knowing or ieckless falsehood in specified situations will result in extending constitutional protectioi to lies and falsehood's which, though neither
knowing nor reckless, do severe 'damage to personal reputation. The First Amendment is not 'so construed,
however, to award merit badges for intrepid but mistaken
or careless reporting. Misinformation has no' merit in
itself; standing alone it is as antithetical to the purposes
of the First Amendment as the calculated lie. Garrison
v. Louisiana, 379 U. S. 64, 75 (1964). Its substance
contributes nothing to 'intelligent decisionmaking by
citizens or officials; it achieves nothing but gratuitous
injury. The sole basis for protecting publishers who
spread false information is that otherwise the truth would
too often be suppressed. That innocent falsehoods are
sometimes protected only to ensure access to the truth has
been noted before, St. Amant v. Thompson, 390 U. S.
727, 732 (1968), and it is well" that the thought is repeated today in Time, Inc. v. Pape, ante, p' 279, at 292.
*This opinion applies also to No. 62, Monitor Patriot Co. v.
Roy, ante, p. 265.

