OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN
CHAMBERS FROM FEBRUARY 11
THROUGH MARCH 1, 1971
KARR v. SCHMIDT, PRINCIPAL OF CORONADO
HIGH SCHOOL, ET AL.
ON MOTION TO VACATE A STAY OF INJUNCTION
PENDING APPEAL

Decided February 11, 1971
Motion to vacate Court of Appeals' stay. of District Court's order
enjoining El Paso, Texas, public school authorities from enforcing
rules regarding the length of schoolboys' hair is denied, as JUSTICE
BLACK refuses to hold, or predict that this Court will hold, that
federal courts have the constitutional power to interfere in this
way with the public school system operated by the States.
See: 320 F. Supp. 728.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK, Circuit Justice.
This "Emergency Motion to Vacate Stay of Injunction Pending Appeal" has been presented to me as the
Supreme Court Justice assigned to the Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit. The motion concerns rules adopted
by the school authorities of El Paso, Texas, providing
that schoolboys' hair must not "hang over the ears or
the top of the collar of a standard dress shirt and must
not obstruct vision." The rules also provide that boys
will not be admitted to or allowed to remain in school
unless their hair meets this standard. The United States
District Court for the-Western District of Texas, El Paso
Division, held after hearings that this local student hair
length rule violated the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United
States Constitution and enjoined its enforcement, declining to suspend its injunction pending appeal. On motion
of the school authorities, the Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit stayed and suspended the District Court's
1201

1202

OCTOBPR TERM, 1970

Opinion in Chambers

401 U. S.

injunction and the student appellees have asked me to
vacate the Court of Appeals' stay of the injunction.
Should I vacate the stay the El Paso school authorities
would remain subject to 'the District Court's injunction
and .would thereby be forbiddpn to enforce their local rule
requiring public school students not to wear hair hanging
over their collars or obstructing their vision.
I refuse to hold for myself that the federal courts have
constitutional power to interfere in this way with the
public school system operated by the States. And I
furthermore refuse to predict that our Court will-hold
they have such power. It is true that we have held that
this Court does have power under the Fourteenth Amendment to bar state public schools from discrnminating
against Negro students on account of' their race but we
did so by virtue of a direct, positive command in the
Fourteenth Amendment, which, like the other Civil War
Amendments, was primarily designed to outlaw racial
discrimination by the States. There is no such direct,
positive command about, local school rules with reference to the length of hair state school students must
have. And I cannot now predict this Court will hold
that the more or less vague terms of either the Due
Process or Equal Protection Clause have robbed the
States of their traditionally recognized power to run their
school systems in accordance with their own best judgment as to the appropriate length of hair for students.
The motion in this case is presented to me in a record
of more than 50 pages, not counting a number of exhibits.
The words used throughout the record such as ."Emergency Motion" and "harassment" and "irreparable damages" are calculated to leave the impression that this case
over the length of hair has created or is about to create
a great national "crisis." I confess my inability to
understand how anyone would thus classify this hair
length case. The only thing about it that borders on

KARR v. SCHMIDT
1201

1203

Opinion in Chambers

the serious to me is the idea that anyone should think
the Federal Constitution imposes on the United States
courts the burden of supervising' the length of hair
that public school students should wear. The records
of the federal courts, including ours, show a heavy
burden of litigation in connection with cases of great importance-the kind of litigation our courts must be able
to handle if they are to perform their responsibility to
our society. Moreover, our Constitution has sought to
distribute the powers of government in this Nation between the United States and the States. Surely the
federal judiciary can perform no greater service to the
Nation than to leave the States unhampered in the performance of their purely local affairs. Surely few policies
can be thought of that States are more -capable of
deciding than the length of the hair of schoolboys. There
can, of course, be honest differences of opinion as to
whether any government, state or federal, should as a
matter of public policy regulate the lehgth of haircuts,
but it would be difficult to prove by reason, logic, or
common sense that the federal judiciary is more competent to deal with hair length than are the local school
authorities and state legislatures of all our 50 States.
"Perhaps if the courts will leave the States free to perform their own constitutional duties they will at least
be able successfully to regulate the length of hair their
public school students can wear.
Motion denied.

