OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Syllabus

401 U. S.

LABINE, TUTRIX v. VINCENT,
ADMINISTRATOR
APPEAL- FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA

No. 5257. Argued January 19, 1971-Decided March 29, 1971
Ezra Vincent died intestate, survived by unly collateral relations and
an illegitimate daughter, whose guardian -(appellant) sued to have
her declared Vincent's sole heir. The trial court ruled that under
Louisiana law the collateral relations took the decedent's property
to the exclusion of the daughter, who had been acknowledged by
her father but not legitimated. 'The Louisiana Court of Appeal
affirmed. The State .Supreme Court denied certiorari. Appellant,
relying on Levy v. Louisiana,39-1 U. S.69, contends that Louisiana's
intestate succession laws that bar an illegitimate child from sharing equally with legitimate children in the father's estate constitute
an invidious discrimination violative of the Due Process and
Equal Protection Clauses of the Constitution. Held: The Louisiana statutory intestate succession schem6 is within the State's
power to establish rule§ for the protection and strengthening of
family life and for the disposition of property, and in view of
various statutory alternatives, none of. which was chosen by Vincent, did not (unlike the situation in Levy) constitute an insurmountable barrier to illegitimate children. Pp. 535-540:
255 La. 480, 231 So. 2d 395, affirmed. See: 229 So. 2d 449.
BLACK, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,
C. J., and HARLAN, STEWAR T, and BLACKMUN, JJ., joined. HARLAN,
J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 540. BRENNAN, J., filed a
dissenting opinion, in which DOUGLAS, WHnm,and MARSHALL, JJ.,
joined,-post, p. 541.

James J. Cox argued the cause and filed a brief for
appellant.
James A. Leithead argued the cause for appellee.
With him on the brief was Norman F. Anderson.
Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed by
Harry D. Krause, Norman Dorsen, and Melvin L. Wulf

for the American Civil Liberties Union, and by Jonathan
Weiss and David Gilman for the Center on Social Welfare Policy and Law.

LABINE v. VINCENT
Opinion of the Court

532

Briefs of amici-curiae urging affimance were filed by

Jack P. F. Gremillion, Attorney General,'for' the State of
Louisiana, and by A. Leon Hebert and E. Drew McKinnis
for the Buras Heirs et al.
BLAcK delivered-the opinion of the Court.
In this appeal the guardian (tutrix) of an illegitimate
minor child attacks the constitutionality -of Louisiana's
laws that bar an illegitimate child from sharing equally
with legitimates in the estate of their father who had
publicly acknowledged the child, .but who died without
a will. To understand appellant's constitutional arguments and our decision, it is necessary bniefly to review
the facts giving rise to this dispute. . On March 15, 1962,
a baby girl, Rita Vincent, was born to Lou Bertha Patterson (now Lou,,Bertha Labine) in Calcasieu Parish,
Louisiana. On May 10, 1962, Lou Bertha Patterson and
Ezra Vincent, as authorized .by Louisiana -law, jointly
executed before a.-notary a Louisiana State Bdard of
Health form acknowledging that Ezra Vindent was the
"natural father" of Rita' Vincent." This publi --acknowledgment of parentage did not, under Louisiana
law, give the child a legal right' to share equally with
legitimate children in the parent's estate but it did give
from her parents or their
her a right to claim
heirs. The acknowledgment also gave the 'child the capacity under Louisiana law to be a limited beneficiary
under her father's will in the event he left a will naming
her, which he d~d'not do here.
Ezra Vincent died intestatei that is, without a will,
on September 16, 1968, in Rapides Parish, Louisiana,
leaving. substantial property within the State, but't
will to direct its distribution. Appellant, as the guardian.
of Rita Vincent, 'petitioned in state court for the appoint7
MR. JUSTICE

-support

-

ment. of an administrator for 'the father's estate; tor
See App. 8.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
*Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

a declaration that Rita Vincent is the sole heir of Ezra
Vincent; and for an order directing the administrator
to pay support and maintenance for the child. In the
alternative, appellant sought a declaration that the child
was entitled to support and maintenance of $150 per
month under a Louisiana child support law.2
The administrator of the succession of Ezra Vincent
answered the petition claiming that Vincent's relatives
were entitled to the whole estate. He relied for the claim
upon two articles of the Louisiana Civil Code of 1870:
Art. 206, which provides:
"Illegitimate children, though duly acknowledged,
can not claim the rights of legitimate children...
and Art. 919, which provides:
"Natural childfn are called to the inheritance of
their natural father, who has duly acknowledged
them, when he has left niidescendants nor ascendants,.-nor collateral relations, nor surviving wife, and
to the exclusion only of the State."
The court ruled that the relatives of the father were his
collateral relations and that under Louisiana's laws of
intestate sucbession took his property to the exclusion
of acknowledged, but .not legitimated, illegitimate children. The court, therefore, dismissed with costs the
guardian mother's petition to recognize the child as an
heir. The court also ruled that in view of Social Security
payments of $60 per month and Veterans Administration
payments of $40 per month available for the support of
the child, the guardian for the child Was not entitled to
support or maintenance from the succession of Ezra Vin2 La. Civ. Code Ann., Art. 240, provides: "Fathers and nothers owe
limony to their illegitimate children, when they are in ieed .. ."
Art. 241 provides: "Illegitimate children have a right to claim
this alimony, not only from their father and mother, but even from
their heirs after their death."

LABINE v. VINCENT
532

Opinion of the Court

cent.' The Louisiana Court of Appeal, Third Circuit,
affirmed and the Supreme Court of Louisiana denied a
petition for writ of certiorari. The child's guardian appealed and we noted probable jurisdiction. 400 U. S.
1817 (1970).
In this Court appellant argues that Louisiana's statutory scheme for intestate succession that bars this illegitimate child from sharing in her father's estate constitutes an invidious discrimination against illegitimate
children that cannot stand under the Due Process and
Equal Protection Clauses of the Constitution. ,Much
reliance is placed upon the Court's decisions in Levy v.
Louisiana, 391 U. S.68 (1968), and Glona v. American
Guarantee& Liability Insurance Co., 391 U. S. 73 (1968).
For the reasons set out below, we find appellant's reliance
on those cases misplaced, and we decline to extend the
rationale of those cases where it does not apply. ' Accordingly, we affirm the decision below.
In Levy the Court held that Louisiana could not consistently with the Equal Protection Jlause bar an illegitimate child from recovering for the wrongful death of its
mother when such recoveries by legitimate children were
authorized. The cause of action alleged in Levy was in
tort. It was undisputed that Louisiana had created a
statutory tort 4 and had provided for the survival of the
deceased's cause of action,5 so that a large class of persons
injured by the tort could recover damages in compensation for their injury. Under those circumstances thie
Court held that the State could not totally exclude from
3 Rita Vincent qualifies as Ezra Vincent's child for federal social
security and veteran's benefits by virtue of his acknowledgment of
paternity, 42 U. S. C. § 416 (h) (3) (A) (i) (I) (1964 ed., Supp. V)
and 38 U. S. C. § 101 (4) (1964 ed., Supp. V). No question has been
raised concerning the legality under federal law of reliance upon such
benefits to relieve parents or their estates from the state-imposed
obligations of child support.
4 La. Civ. Code Ann., Art. 2315 (1952).
5Ibid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

the class of potential plaintiffs illegitimate children who
were unquestionably injured by the tort that took their
mother's life. Levy did not say and cannot fairly be read
to say that a State can iever treat an illegitimate child
differently from legitimate offspring.'
The people of Louisiana, through their legislatufre have
carefully regulated many of the property rights incident
to family life. Louisianp law'prescribes certain formalities requisite to the contracting of narriage. 7 Once marriage is contracted there, husbands have obligations to
their wives.8 Fathers have obligations to their children.,
'Should the children prosper while the parents fall upon
hard times, children have a statutory obligation to support their parents." To further strengthen and preserve
family ties, Louisiana regulates the disposition of property upon the death of a family man. The surviving
spouse is entitled to an interest in the deceased sppuse's
estate.1 Legitimate children have a right of forced heirship in their father's estate and can even retrieve property transferred by their father during his lifetime in
reduction of their rightful interests. 2
6 Nor is Glona v. American Guarantee & Liability Insurance Co.,
391 U. S. 73 (1968), analogous to this case. In Glona the majority
relied on Louisiana's "curious course" of sanctions against illegitimacy
to demonstrate that there was no "rational basis" for prohibiting a
mother from recovering for the wrongful death of her son. Id., at
74-75. Even if we were to apply the "rational basis" test to the

Louisiana intestate succession statute, that statute clearly has a
rational b'asis in view of Louisiana's interest in promoting family
life and of directing the disposition of property left within the State.
7La. Civ. Code Ann., Arts. 90-98 (1952).
8 La..Civ. Code Ann., Arts. 119, 120 (1952).
9 "Fathers and mothers, by the very act of marrying, contract
together the obligation of supporting, maintaining, and educating
their child-"
La. Civ. Code Ann.; Art. 227 (1952). See n. 2,

supr.

C

La. Civ. Code Ann., Art. 229 (1952).
"-La. Civ. Code Ann., Art. 915,(1952).
12
La. Civ. Code Ann., Arts. 1493-1495 (1952).
10

LABINE v. VINCENT
532

Opinion of the Court

to has a complex set of rules regarding the
Louisia
rights of illegitimate children. Children born out of
wedlock and who are never acknowledged by their parents apparently have no right to 'take property by
intestate succession from their- father's estate. In some
instances, their father may not even bequeath property
to them by will.' 3 Illegitimate children acknowledged by
their fathers are "natural children." Natural children
can take from their father by intestate succession "to
the exclusion only of the State." They may be bequeathed property by their father only to the extent of
either one-third or one-fourth of his estate and then
only if their father is not survived by legitimate children
or their heirs. 4 Finally, children born out of wedlock
can be legitimated or adopted, in which case they may
take by intestate successionor by will as any other child.
These rules for intestate succession may or may not
reflect the intent of particular parents. Many will think
that it is unfortunate that the rules are so rigid. Others
will think differently. But the choices reflected by the
intestate succession statute are choices which it is within
the power of the State to mike. The Federal Constitution does not give this Court the power to overturn .the
State's choice under the guise of constitutional interpretation because- the Justices of this Court believe that
they can provide better rules. Of course, it may be said
that the rules adopted by the Louisiana Legislature "discriminate" against illegitimates. But the rules-also discriminate against collateral relations, as 'opposed to
ascendants, and against ascendants, as opposed to descendants. Other rules determining property rights
"Natural fathers and mothers can, in no case, dispose of
property in favor.of their adulterine or incestuous children, unless
to the mere amount of what is necessary to their sustenance, or to
procure them an occupation or profession by which to support themselves." La. Civ. Code Ann., Art. 1488 (1952).
14 La. Civ. Code Ann., Art. 1486 (1952).
13

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

based on family status also "discriminate" in favor of
wives and against "concubines." 25 The dissent attempts
to distinguish thse other "discriminations" on the ground
that they have a biological or social basis. There is no
biological difference between a wife and a concubine,
nor does the Constitution require that there be such a
difference before the State may assert its power to 'protect the wife and her children against the claims of a
concubine and her children. The social difference be-tween a wife and a concubine is analogous to the difference between a legitimate and an illegitimate child. Qne
set of relationships is socially sanctioned, legally recognized, and gives rise to various rights and duties. The
other set of relationships is illicit and beyond the recognition of the law. Similarly, the State does not need
biological or social -reasons for distinguishing between
ascendants and descendants. Some of these discriminatory choices are perhaps more closely connected to
our conceptions of social justice or the ways in which
most dying men wish to dispose of their property
than the Louisiana rules governing illegitimate children.
It may be possible that some of these choices are more
"rational" than the choices inherent in Louisiana's categories of illegitimates. But the power to make rules to
establish, protect,. and strengthen family life as well,
as to regulate the disposition of property left in
Louisiana by a man dying there is committed by the
Constitution of the United States and the people of
Louisiana to the legislature of, that State. Absent a
specific constitutional guarantee, it is for that legislature,
' 5 "Those who have lived together in open concubinage are respectively incapable of making to each other, whether inter vivos
or mortis causa, any donation of immovables; and if they make
a donation of movables. it can not exceed one-tenth part of the
whole value of their estate.
"Those who afterwards marry are excepted from this rule." La.
Civ. Code Ann., Art. 1481 (1952)

ILABINE v. VINCENT

532

Opinion of the Court

not the life-tenured judges of this Court, to select from
among possible laws." We-cannot say that Louisiana's
policy provides a perfect or even a desirable solution or
the one we would have provided for the problem of the
property rights of illegitimate chil ren.
Neither can
we say that Louisiana does-not have the power to make
laws for distribution of property left within the State.
We emphasize that this is not a case, like Levy, where
the State has created an insurmountable barrier to this
illegitimate child. There is not the slightest suggestion
in this case that Louisiana has barred this illegitimate
from inheriting from her father. Ezra Vincent could
have left one-third of his property to his illegitimate
daughter had he bothered to follow the simple formalities of executing a will. He could, of course, have legitimated the child by marrying her mother in which case
the child could have inherited his property either by intestate succession or by will as any other legitimate child..
Finally, he could have awarded his child the -benefit of
Louisiana's intestate succession statute on the same terms
as legitimate children simply by stating in hi acknowledgment of paternity his desire to legitimate the little
girl. See Bergeron v. Miller, 230 So. 2d 417 (La. App.
1970).
In short, we conclude that in the circumstances presented in this case, there is nothing in the vague generalities of the Equal Protection and Due Process Clauses
10 "Now the law in question is nothing m6re than an exercise of
the power which every state and sovereignty possesses, of regulating

the manner and&term upon which property real or personal viithin
its dominion may be transmitted by last will and testament, or by
inheritance; and of prescribing.who shall and who shall not be capable of taking it." Mager v. Grima, 8 How. 490, 493 (1850). See
Lyeth v. Hoey, 305 U. S. 188, 193 (1938).
'1

See Krause, Bringing the Bastard into the Great Society-A

Proposed Uniform Act on Legitimacy, 44 Tex. L. Rev. 829 (1966).

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
HARLAz,

J., concurring

401 U. S.

which empowers this Court to nullify the deliberate
choices of the elected representatives of the people of
Louisiana.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTicE HARLAN, concurring.
In joining the opinion of the Court, I wish to add a
few words, prompted, I may say, by the dissenting opinion, which in my view evwnees extf'avagant notions of
what constitutes a denial of "equal protection" in the
constitutional sense.
It isosurely entirely reasonable for Louisiana to provide
that a man who has entered into a marital relationship
thereby undertakes obligations to any resulting offspring
beyond those which he owes to the products of a casual
liaison, and this whether or not he admits the fact of
fatherhood in the latter case.* With respect to a substantial portion of a man's estate, these greater obligations stemming from marriage are imposed by the provision of Louisiana law making a man's legitimate children
his forced heirs. For the remainder of his estate, these
obligations are not absolute, but are conditional upon
his not disposing of his property in other ways. With
all respect to my dissenting Brethren, I deem little short
of frivolous the contention-that the Equal Protection
Clause prohibits enforcement of marital obligations, in
either the mandatory or the suppletive form. See
H. M. Hart & A. Sacks. The Legal Process: Basic Prob*Louisiana law authorizes illegitimate children to claim support
not only from both parents but also from the parents' heirs. See
ante, at 534 n. 2. It thus goes considerably beyond the common law
and statutes generally in force at the time the Fourteenth Amendment
was adopted. These rarely did more than authorize public officials
to bring an action directing the putative father to support a child
who threatened to become a public charge. See 2 Kent's Commentaries *215 and nn. (b) and. (c) (12th ed. 0. W. Holmes 1873).

LABINE i'. VINCENT
532

BRENbNAN,

J., dissenting

lems in the Making and Application of Law 35-36, 251256 (tent. ed. 1958).
In addition -to imposing these obligations, Louisiana
law prohibits testamentary dispositions to one's illegitimate children. Even were my dissenting Brethren prepared to hold this rule of. law unconstitutional, to do
so would not affect the outcome of this case. First,
appellant's child is"natural" rather than "illegitimate";
and second, if the father desired her to have his property
after his death, he did not manifest that desire in the
appropriate way.
with whom MR. JUSTICE
DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE WHITE, and MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL join, dissenting.
MR. JUSTIcE

BRENNAN,

In my view, Louisiana's intestate succession laws, insofar as they treat illegitimate children whose fathers have
publicly acknowledged them differently from legitimate
children, plainly violate the Equal Protection Clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. The Court today effectively concedes this, and, to reach its result, resorts to
the startling measure of simply excluding such illegitimate children from the protection of the Clause, in
order to uphold the untenable and discredited moral
prejudice of bygone centuries which vindictively punished not only the illegitimates' parents, but also the
hapless, and innocent, children. Based upon such a
premise, today's decision cannot even pretend to be a
principled decision. This is surprising from Justi6es who
hive heretofore so vigorously decried decisionmaking
rested upon personal predilections, to borrow the Court's
words, of "life-tenured judges of this Court.' Ante, at
539. I respectfully dissent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BmN'NAN, J., dissenting

101 U. S.

In 1961, Ezra Vincent was 69 years old and Lou Bertha
Patterson (now Lou Bertha Labine) was 41. They were
unmarried adults living in rural, southwest Louisiana,
outside the town of Lake Charles. Soon after meeting
each other in 1961, Mrs. Patterson moved in with Mr.
Vincent. Although they did not marry, Mrs. Patterson
had a daughter by Mr. Vincent on March 15, 1962. The
child's birth certificate identified the father and mother
by name. Within two months, Mr. Vincent and Mrs.
Patterson appeared before a notary public and executed
a form, in accordance with Louisiana law, acknowledging
that Mr. Vincent was the father of the child. A month
later, the child's birth certificate was changed to give the
child Mr. Vincent's name,1 and she has always been known
since as Rita Nell Vincent. By acknowledging the child,
Mr. Vincent became legally obligated under state law to
support her.' Mr. Vincent and Mrs. Patterson continued to live together and raise Rita Nell until Mr. Vincent died in 1968. He left no will.
As natural tutrix of Mr. Vincent's only child, Rita

Nell's mother brought this suit on the child's behalf
seeking to have Rita Nell declared Mr. Vincent's sole
heir. Applying Louisiana law,3 the trial court dismissed
the action and declared Mr. Vincent's collateral relations-his brothers and sisters-to be his heirs.' The
2Louisiana law appears to direct that the birth certificate be
changed only when the child has been legitimated.

La. Rev. Stat.

§ 40:308 (1950).
2 La. Civ. Code Ann.. Art. 242 (1952)
3 See Part II, infra.
4In
addition, the trial court, despite uncontradictcd testimony
that the child required $192 per month for support, rejected the
claim for alimony from her father's estate, as provided'in Loidsiana

LABINK v. VINCENT
532

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

child's tutrix appealed, arguing that to treat a publicly
.acknowledged illegitimate child differently from a legitimate child was a denial of equal protection and due
process. The Louisiana intermediate appellate court
affirmed in all respects, upholding the state statutory
provisions against constitutional attack, "[h]owever unfair it may be to punish innocent children for the fault
of their parents." 229 So. 2d 449, 452 (1969). The
Louisiana Supreme Court declined review, and we noted
probable jurisdiction. 400 U. S. 817 (1970).
II
The rationality and constitutionality of Louisiana's
treatment of the illegitimate child can only be analyzed
against the background of a proper understanding of that
State's law. Under Louisiana law, legitimate children
have an automatic right to inherit from their parents.

Legitimate children generally cannot be disinherited.8
law, La. Civ. Code Ann., Arts. 240-242, 243, 919 .(1952), on the
ground that the child was receiving $100 per month in Social Security
and Veterans Administration benefits.
"La. Civ. Code Ann., Art. 1495 (1952), provides:
"In the cases prescribed by the, two last preceding articles [legitimate children and parents], the heirs are called forced heirs, because
the donor can not deprive them of the portion of his estate reserved
for them by law, except in cases where he has a just cause to disinherit them." (Emphasis in original.)
1Ibid. A parent can only disinherit a legitimate child if the
parent alleges a certain statutorily defined "just cause" in his will and
in terms expresses his desire to disinherit the child. La. Civ. Code
Ann., Arts. 1617-1620 (1952). Article 1621 of the Louisiana Civil
Code specifies the "just causes" for which disinherison is permitted:
"The just causes for which parents may disinherit their children
are ten in number, to wit:
"1. If the child has raised his or her hand to strike the parent, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRENNAN, J.,

dissenting

401 U. S.

Property cannot even be given away without taking
account of the rights of a legitimate child, since the portion of the decedent's estate that can be given away
or disposed of through donations inter vivos or mortis
causa is sharply limited by law for the benefit of a per-

son's legitimate children. 7 Actually the Louisiana Constitution protects this scheme of forced heirship which

benefits the decedent's parents as well as his legitimate
children.'
if he or she has actually struck the parent; but a mere threat is not
sufficient.
"2. If the child has. been guilty, towards a parent, of cruelty, of a
crime or grievous injury.
"3. If the child has attempted to take the life of either parent.
"4. If the child has accused a parent of any capital crime, except,
however, that of high treaaon.
"5. If the child has refused sustenance to a parent, having means
to afford it.
"6. If the child has neglected to-take care of a parent become
insane.
"7. If the child refused to ransom them, when defained in captivity.
"8. If the child used any act of violence or coercion to hinder a
parent from making a will.
"9. If the child has refused to become security for a parent, having
the means, in order to take him out of prison.
"10. If the son or daughter, being a minor, marries without the
consent of his or her parents."
The persons seeking to take against the disinherited forced heir must
prove the truth of the "just cause" alleged in the parent's will.
Pennywell v. George, 164 La. 630, i14 So. 493 (1927). Disinherison
is not favored. Succession of Reems, 134 La. 1033, 64 So. 898 (1914).
7La. Civ. Code Ann., Art. 1493 (1952), provides, in pertinent
part:
"Donations inter vivos or mortis causa can not exceed two-thirds of
the property of the disposer, if he leaves, at his decease, a legitimate
child; one-half, if lie leaves two children; and one-third, if he leaves
three or a greater number."
See generally La. Civ. Code Ann., Arts. 1493-1518 (1952).
s La. Const., Art. 4,,§ 16 (1921).

LABINE v. VINCENT
532

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

This enshrinement of forced heirship in the state constitution symbolizes Louisiana's extensive legal ordering
of familial affairs. Louisiana's regulation of the family
covers not merely the devolution of property upon the
death of any member, but virtually every aspect of the
duties owed by one family member to another, and the
authority, particularly of the father, over the other members.' This reflects the derivation of Louisiana's legal
traditions from the French, Spanish, and Roman civil
law; they do not have their roots in English common
law:
"Countries which received the Roman law in one
form or another have traditionally ordered relationships between citizens in terms of two institutions,
family and obligation..... .[T]he relationships
formed by Romanist man were all grounded in one
or both of these institutions. His relationship with
his family was determined by law, it established his
status, and this, in turn, qualified the relationships
which he could make with those who were not his
family. . . . [A] man's position within his family
passed into the modern Roman law as the significant
qualification to forming private legal relationships."
Tucker, Sources of Louisiana's Law of Persons:
Blackstone, Domat, and-the French Codes, 44 Tul.
L. Rev. 264, 275-276 (1970) (emphasis added)."0
Thus it is that Louisiana law distinguishes between
legitimate children and illegitimate childre throughout
that law's extensive regulation of family affairs." But,
for purposes of this case, I need only discuss those portions of Louisiana law that bear upon inheritance rights.
See, e. g., La. Civ. Code Ann., Arts. 215-237 (1952).
"0See generally Pelletier & Sonnenreich, A ComparativeAnalysis
of Civil Law Succession, 11 Vill. L. Rev. 323 (1966).
"ISee, e. g,, La. Civ. Code Ann., Arts. 215-245 (1952).
'

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

401 U. S.

Article 178 of the Louisiana Civil Code provides in full:
"Children are either legitimate, illegitimate, or legitimated." Not all illegitimate children can be legitimated,
however-only those whose parents do not have legitimate descendants or ascendants and could lawfully have
married each other at the L'e of the child's conception, or
12
those whose parents later marry can be legitimated.
An illegitimate child who can be legitimated beeomes a
"natural" child when his father formally acknowledges
him." However, Article 206 of the Louisiana Civil Code
provides that, "[i]llegitimate children, though duly acknowledged, can not claim the rights of legitimate children." Thus, the primary consequence under Louisiana
succession law that flows from acknowledgment is that
the natural child may inherit under a will, and inherits if
there is no will, only after the father's other descendants,
ascendants, collateral relations, and surviving spouse, but
before-the estate escheats to the State. 3 An illegitiniate
child whose parents could lawfully have married each
other at the time of the child's conception, but who has
12 La. Civ. Code Ann., Art. 200 (1952), provides:

"A natural father or mother shall have the power to legitimate his
or her natural children by an act passed before a notary and two
witiiesses, declaring that it is the intention of the parent making the
declaration to legitimate such child or children. But only those natural children can be legitimated who are the offspring of parents
who, at the time of conception, could have contracted marriage. Nor
can a parent legitimate his or her natural offspring in the manner
prescribed in this article, when there exists on the part of such'
parent legitimate ascendants or descendants." (Emphasis added.)
La. Civ. Code Ann., Art. 198 (1952), provides:
-"Children born out of marriage, except those who are born from
an incestuous connection, are legitimated by the subsequent marriage
of their father and mother, whenever the latter have formally or
informally acknowledged them for their children, either before or
after the marriage."
13 See Oppenheim, Acknowledgment and Legitimation in Louisiana-Louisiana Act 50 of 1944, 19 Tul. L. Rev. .325, 327 (1945).

LABINE v. VINCENT
532

BRZxAwN,

J., dissenting

not been publicly acknowledged, or an illegitimate child
whose parents were not capable of marriage at the time
of conception, may not inherit at all, either by will or
intestate succession, "the law allowing them nothing more
than a mere alimony." La. Civ. Code Ann., Art. 920
(1952).14
III
Under Louisiana law a legitimate child would have
had an absolute right to inherit Mr. Vincent's estate;
Mr. Vincent could not have totally disinherited such a
child.. This is a consequence of Louisiana's "forced heirship" law, in other words a consequence of a state decision, however contrary that might be to Mr. Vincent's
own desires. Similarly in the present case, Mr. Vincent's
illegitimate daughter, though duly acknowledged, is denied his intestate estate, not because he wished that
result but because the State places her behind Mr. Vincent's collateral relations-indeed behind all- his relations-in the line of succession.
The State's discrimination is clear and obvious.5
Ordinarily, even in cases of economic regulation, this
14 See Succession of Elmore, 124 La. 91, 49 So. 989.(1909).
25 As Part II of this opinion makes clear, only parents of illegitimate children who could have married at the time of conception and
who have no legitimate ascendants or descendants may legitimate
those children by notarial .act. See ns 12, supra. The Court relies
on the fact that Mr. Vincent was within this narrow class of fathers
9f illegitimate children to suggest that Louisiana lawallows fathers to
decide whether or not their illegitimate children will inherit the
father's estate. Ante, at .539. Even as to tlhis class; however,
Louisiana law places the burden on the father of a publicly acknowledged illegitimate child to take affirmative action to inherit that
child, while virtually disabling the same father from disinheriting a
legitimate child, or, at least,'placing a burden of affirmative action
on the father in order to disinherit the, legitimate child. Thus, even
as to this smhall group, the discrimination imposed by the -State is
clear.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

401 U. S.

Court will inquire, under the Equal Protection Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment, whether there is some
"reasonable basis" for a discrimination in a state statute,
or whether the discrimination is invidious. E. g., Morey
v. Doud, 354 U. S. 457 (1957); Williamson v. Lee Optical
Co., 348 U. S. 483 (1955); Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118
U. S. 356 (1886). Such an inquiry does not question the
State's power to regulate; rather, it focuses exclusively
on whether the State has legislated without the invidious
discrimination that is forbidden by the Fourteenth
Amendment.
For reasons not articulated, the Court refuses to consider in this case whether there is any reason at all, or
any basis whatever, for the difference in treatment that
Louisiana accords to publicly acknowledged illegitimates
and' to' legitimate children. Rather, the Court simply
asserts that "the power to make rules to establish, protect, and strengthen family life as well as to regulate 'the
disposition of property left in Louisiana by a man dying
there is committed by the Constitution of the United
States and the people" cf Louisiana to the legislature of
that State." Ante, at 538. But no one questions Louisiana's power to pass inheritance laws." Surely the Court
only context in which this statement might have relevance
would be in the context of the question, not presented in this case, of
the power of Congress to regulafe the devolution of property upoll
the death of citizens of the various States. In such a case, the question would indeed be whether the Constitution commits such power
exclusively to the States. It so happens that this Court, in an opinion written by my Brother BLACK, has held that the Constitution
does not commit the power to regulate intestate succession exclusivelv to the States. United States v. Oregon, 366 U. S. 643, 649
(1961) ("The fact that this [federal] law pertains to the devolution
of property does not render it invalid. Although it is true that
this is an area normally left to the States, it is not immune under
the Tenth Amendment from laws passed by the Federal Government
which are, as is the law here, necessary and proper to the exercise
of a delegated power.").
16 The

LABINE v. VINCENT
* 532

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

cannot be saying. that the Fourteenth Amendment's
Equal Protectfon Clause is inapplicable to subjects regulable by the States-that extraordinary pr6position
would reverse a century of c'onstitutional adjudication
under the Equal Protection and 'Due Process Clauses.
It is, precisely state action "which is subjected bi. the
Foir'teentli Amendment to its restraints;. It is, to say
the least, bewildering that a Court that for..decades.has
,wrestled with the- nuances of. the, concept 6f %tate'
action" in order to ascertain the reach of the Fourteenth
-Amendment, in this case holds that the state action
6r6,. because it- is state action is -insulated from these-.
restraints.
Putting aside the Court's repeated emphasis 'n Louisiana's power. to regulate Intestate uccession--something
not questioned and wholly irrelevant to the present constitutional issue-:only two passages 'in tlt Court's opinion even attempt an argument in support of today's
result. First, the Court tellp us that Louisiana intestate'
succession law favors 'some -classes of a deceased's relatives over other classes. That is certainly true, but.the
Court .nowhere suggests what bearing these other discrininations have on the rationality of 'Louisiana's discrimination against the acknowledged illegitimate. It
is a little like answering*a complaint' of Negro,scho6l.
children against separate. lavatoriee for Negro ant white
students by arguing that the situation is no different
from separate lavatories' for bo6ys and.girls, or for elementary school children. and high school students.'
These other discriminations may be rational or irrational.
But their only relevance to the rationality ,and constitutionality of the specific challenged discrimination is. the
light they throw, if any, on"the basis for that discrimination. The conclusion the Court .appears to 'draw from
its itemization of other discriminations among a- de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRENNwAN, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

ceased's relatives is that Louisiana needs no justification
at all for any of the distinctions it draws. That reasoning flies in the face not only of the. Equal Protection
and Due Process Clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment,
but also of the very notion of a rule of law.
The only other hint at an attempt to support today's
result may appear in the piirported distinction of Levy
v. Louisiana, 391 U. S. 68 (1968): "We emphasize that
this is not a case, like Levy, where the State has created
an insurmountable, barrier to this illegitimate child."
Ante, at 539. There may be two implications in this
statement: (1) that in Levy, there was an insurmountable
barrier to recovery; and (2) that any discrimination that
falls short of an "insurmountable barrier" is, without need
for'further analysis, permissible. As to the first, Levy in-.
volved an unacknowledged illegitimate child. Louisiana
permitted an illegitimate child to Tecover in tort for .the.
death of the child's mother, under- the State's wrongful
death -act, only if the illegitimate child had been acknowledged. Thie was no insurmountable barrier to
the child's recovery; .if the mother -had formally acknowledged the child, recovery would have bedn per-.
mitted. My Brother HARAm 's dissent emphasized this
fact and argued that the State-was entitled to rely onspecified formalities. Plainly then Levy did not involve
any ."insurmountable .barrier."
The Court's second implication-that any discrimina"tion short of an "insurmountable barrier" is permissible-is one.of those propositions the mere statement of.
which is its own refutation. Levy, as I have pointed out,
holds squarely to the contrary- specifically in the context
of discrimination against illegitimate children. 'And
nfimerous other cases in this Court establish the general
proposition that discriminations that "merely" disadvantage a class of persons or businesses are as subject to

LABINE v. VINCENT
532

BRFNNAN, J., dissenting

the command of the Fourteenth Amendment as discriminations that Are in some sense more absolute. In short, the Court has not analyzed, or perhaps simply refuses to analyze, Louisiana's discrimination against
acknowledged ilgitimates in terms.
of the requirerments
8 Since
I still believe
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
that the Constitution does prohibit a State; from denying
any person the "equal' protection. of thd laws," I must
-therefore undertake my. own analysis to determine, -ata
minimum, whether there is any'rational basis for. the discrimination, or whether -the classification, bears -any
intelligible proper relationship .to -the consequences that
flow from it' , See, e. g., Dandridge v. Wlliam g, 397.
U. S. 47I (1970); McLaughlin v. Florida,379 U. S. 184,27E. g.,: Dandridge v., Williams, 397 U. S. 471 (1970); Morey "
v. Doud, supra; Hunter v. Erickson, 393 U. S. 385 (1969); Douglas
v. California.,_372 U. S. 353 (1963); Smith v. Cahoon, 283- U. S. 553
(1931). Cf. Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537 (1896); Brown v.
Board ofEducation, 347 U. S. 483 (1954).
18In one entence in a footnote, the Court says, "Even if we were
to apply-the 'rational basis' test to the Louisiana intestate'succession
statute, that statute clearly has a iational basis in view of Louisiana's
interest in promoting family life and of directing the disp6sition' of
,property' left within the State." Ante, at 536 n. 6. I agree that
Louisiana has an interest in promoting family life and in directing,:
the dispos ition of propefty left within the State. I do not understand how either of these interests provides any basis for Louisiana's
discrimination agamst the acknowledged illegitimate, and the Court
does not xplain the relevance' of these state interests.
19 In view of my'conclusion that the present discrimination cannot
stand even under the "some-rational basis" standard, I need not reach
the queshtons whether illegitimacy is a "suspect" classification that
the State could nnt adopt in any circumstances without showing a
comppllin state ipterest, or whether fundamental rights are involved,
which also Would trequire a showing of a compelling state interest.
See Levy v. Louts-na, 391 U' S. 68, 71 (1968); Harper v. Virginia
Board of Elections, 383 U. S. 663 (1966); Skinner v. Oklahoma, 316
U. S. 535 (1942). This Court has generally treated as suspect a
classification that discriminates against an individual on the basis
of factors over whiclihe has no control,

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
TRhENNAN,

J., dissenting

401 U. S.

190-191 (1964); Morey'v. Doud, supra; Gulf, C. &
S. F. R. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 155 (1897).
Certainly, there is no biolbgical basis for the State's distinction. Mr. Vincent's illegitimate daughter is related
to him biologically in exactly the same way as a legitimate child would havebeen. Indeed, it is the identity of
interest "in the biological and in the spiritual sense," Levy
v. Louisiana,39i U. S.; at 72, and the identical "intimate,
familial relafionship," id., at 71, between both the legitimate and illegitimate child, and their father, which is the
Very. basis for appellant's contention th'at the two 'must
be treated alike.
Louisiana might be thought to have an interest in requiring people to go through certain formalities in order
to eliminate complicated questions of proof and the opportunity for both error and fraud in determining
paternity after the death of thd father. This argument,
of course, was the focal point of the dissent in Levy and
Glona v. American Guarantee& Liability Insurance Co.,
391 U. S. 73 (1968). I leave aside, for. the moment,
he f ct that the holdings of those two cases indicate that
-this consideration is insufficient t6 justify a difference in
treatment when there is no dispute over the fact of parentage. F or my Brother HARLAN's dissenting opinion in
those cases explicitly recognized that the State's .interest
in this regard is fully satisfied by a formal public acknowledgment. 391 U. S., at 80. When a father has formally.
acknowledged his child or gone through any state authorized formality for declaring paternity, or when there has
been a court judgment of paternity,,.there is no possible
diffic ity of proof, and no opportunity for fraud or error.
This purported interest certainly can offer no justification for distinguishing between a formally. acknowledged
illegitimate
child and a legitimate one.
It is also important hot to obscure the fact that the
formality of marriage primarily signifies a relationship

LABINE v. VINCENT
532

BRENNAN, J., dissenting

between husband and wife, not between parent and
child. Analysis of the rationality of any state eff6rt to
impose obligations based upon tie fact of marriage
must, therefore, distinguish between those obligations
that run between parties to the marriage and those
that run to others. My Brother HARIAN, unlike his
colleagues in the majority, concedes that the Equal Protection Clause requires a justification for Louisiana's
discrimination against illegitimates, and he attempts one
he argues that it is reasonable for a State to impose
greater obligations on a man in respect to his wife and
their children than in respect to other women and any
other children of whom he may be the father. In
other words, contrary to the Louisiana court below'
he apparently believes that Louisianals discrimination
against illegitimates reflects a state policy'that, would
discourage marriage by .ifipbsing special burdens, such
as those of forced heirship,- upon those who enter into it.
However that may be, such force as his argument may
have stems directly from its lack of .specificity. Imposition by a State of reciprocal obligations*upon husband
and wife that are not imposed upon thos6 who do not
enter- into a formalized marriage relationship is based
upon the assumptions (1) that marriage may be promoted through pressure applied on or by the pary seeking- the. benefit of obligatioris imlposed by the married
status, and (2) that in any event ihe choice is entirely
within the control of the -two' individuals concerned.
These elements are entirely lacking when we consider
the relationship of a child vis-a-vis its parents. Pfecisely this point was made approvingly by .Chancellor
Kent, relied upon by my Brother HARLAN,. early in the
19th century;
"This relaxation in the laws- of so many yf the
states, of the severity of the common law [discrfmnina-

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

401 U. S.

tion against illegitimates], rests upon the principle
that the relation of parent and child, which exists in.
'this unhappy case, 'inall its native and binding
force, ought to produce the ordinary legal consequences of that consanguinity." 2 J. Kent, Commentaries *213 (12th ed. 0. Holmes 1873).0
Intestate succession laws might seek to carry out a general intent of-parents not to provide for publicly acknowledged illegitimate children. However, as the summary
of Louisiana law I have made shows, one of the primary
hallmarks of Louisiana's civil code is its detailed, extensivie regulation of the family relationship. Its discrimination against the illegitimate in matters of inheritance and succession is official state policy, completely
.negating any argument that such discrimination merely
represents a legislative judgment about the probable
wishes of a deceased or the desires of most persons in
similar situations. The opinion of the state court below
itself eliminates that possibility. The Louisiana court
20

The concurring opinion suggests that the legal obligation to
support the illegitimate child imposed by Louisiana law goes "considerably beyond the common law and statutes generally. in force at
the time the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted." Ante, at 540 n.
The authority cited by the concurrence for this proposition describes
early 19th century American law on the subject as follows: "The
mother, or reputed father, is generally in this country chargeable
by law with the maintenance of the bastard child; and in New York
it is in such way as any two justices of the peace of the county shall
think meet; and tlhe goods, chattels, and real estate of the parents are
seizable for the support of such children, if the parents have absconded. The reputed father is liable to arrest and'imprisonment
until he gives. security to indemnify the town chargeable with the
maintenance of the child. These provision are miended for the public indemnity, and were borrowed from -the several English statutes
on the subject; and -similar regulations to coerce the putative father
to maintain -the child, and indemnify the town or parish, have been
adopted in the several states." 2 J. Kent, Commentaries *215 (12th

ed. O.Holmes -1873).

LABINE v. VINCENT
532

BRENNAN,

J., .dissenting

affirmatively states that the disinheritance of acknowledged illegitimates is in furtherance'of specific state
policy goals-goals that are unrelated to parents' intentions. 229 So. 2d,- at 452. Finally, viewing the general
statutory treatment of illegitimates as a whole, particularly the facts that only a narrow class of fathers can
legitimate their children by declaration, and that unacknowledged and "adulterous" illegitimates are prohibited from inheriting even by will, I think the
conclusion is compelled that Louisianas discrimination
represents state- policy, not an attempt to aid in the
effectuation of private -desires.
Even if Louisiana law could be read as being based
on a legislative judgment about parents' intent, the present discrimination against illegitimates could not stand:
In order to justify a-discrimination on the ground that it
reflects a legislative judgment about" the desires of most
persons in similar situations, there must be some rational
basis 21 for finding that the legislative classification does
reflect those persons' 'desires or intentions as a general
matter. The Court makes no argument that fathers, who
.haze .publicly adknowledged their illegitimate children
generally intend to disinherit them.. No Louisiana court
opinion or Louisiana legislative pronQuncement that I
can discover, or, the Attorney General 'of Louisiana in
this case, has e~ver argued that the Louisiana scheme re-*
fl~cts the general intentions of fathers of illegitimate children in that State. Indeed, the state court below justified 'the discrimination on the ground that "the denial 'of
inheritance rights to illegitimates- might reasonably *be
viewed as encouraging marriage and legitimation of children." 229 So. 2d,. at 452. Such denial could encourage
marriage only if fathers' generally 'desire to' leave their.
property to their illegitimate children; otherwise, disii21 But

see n. 19, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRNNAN,

J., dissenting

401 U. S.

heritance would not. operate as a sanction to encourage
marriage.
Moreover, logic and common experience also suggest
that a fathe who has hublicly. acknowledged his illegitimate child will not generally intend to disinherit his child.
A man who publicly announces that he has fathered a
child out of wedlock" has publicly claimed that child for
his 'Own.- He has risked public opprobtium, or other
sanctions, .to make the public announcement. 8urely,
it does not follow that he will generally desire to disinherit that child and further discredit his reputationby
refusing- to contribute to his own child at cleath. All
the writings cited to uE6 including a United Nations
study report," an English study commission,2 3 thb proposed Uniform Probate (ode,2 1 and a'variety of law review commentary in this country,2 . suggest precisely

the opposite conclusion. Moreover, Lbuisiana is the only
-State in the country that denies .illegitimate children
rights- of inheritance from the mother equal to those of
22

Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection
of- Minorities of the Commission on Human Rights, United Nations
Economic 'and Social Council, Study of Discrimination against Per-sons Born Out .of Wedlock: General Principles on Equality and NonDiscrimination in Respect of Persons'Born out of Wedlock, U. N.
Doc. E/CN. 4 Sub. 2/L 453 (Jan. 13, 1967);
23
Stone, Report of the. Committee- on the Law of Succession
in Relation to Illegitimate.Persbn§, 30 Mod. I Rev. 552 (1967).
2
- National Conference -of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws,
•Uniform Probate Code § 2-109 (official text 1969).
25
Note, Illegitimacy, 26 Brooklyn L. Rev. 45 (1959); Krause,
Equal Protection for the Illegitimate, 65 Mich. L. Rev. 477 (19671;
Krause, Bringing the Bastard into the Great Society A Proposed
Uniform Act on Legitimacy, 44 Tex. L. .Rev. 829 (1966); Gray &
Rudovsky, The Court Acknowledges the Illegitimate: Levy v. Louisiana and Glona v. American Guarantee & Liability Insurance Co., 118
U. Pa. L. Rev. 1 (1969); Note, The Rights of Illegitimates Under
Federal Statutes, 76 Harv. L. Riv. 337 (1962).

LABINE v. VINCENT
532

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

legitimate children, 8 and one of only four States that
have expressly provided by statute that the illegitimate
child may not inherit from his father." The legislatures
of 20 States by statute allow acknowledged illegitimate
children to inherit equally from their fathers. 81 Three
States grant equal rights of inheritance from the father
regardless of acknowledgment. 9 The legislatures of the
other 23 States have not passed upon the question.
The Court nowhere mentions the central reality of thig
case: Louisiana punishes illegitimate children for the
misdeeds of their parents. The judges of the Third Circuit. Court of Alpeal of Louisiana, whose judgment the'
Court here reviews, upheld the present discrimination
"[h ]owever unfair it may be to punish innocent children
for the fault of their parents .... ." 229 So. 2d, at 452.
It is certainly unusual in this country for a person to be
legally disadvantaged on the basis of factors over which
26 See the table summarizing state statutes in Note, Illegitimacy,
26 Brooklyn L. Rev. 45, 76-79 (1959). In 1959, New York as well as
Louisiana did not allow illegitimate children to inherit equally from
their mothers. New York has sinc& changed its law. N. Y. Est.,
Powers & Trusts Law §4-12 (a) (1)(1967).
1
-27 Hawaii Rev. Laws § 577-14 (1968); Ky. Rev. Stat. §391.090
(1962); Pa. Stat. Ann., Tit. 20, § 1.7 (1950).
28

Cal. Prob. Code § 255 (Supp. 1971); Colo. Rev. Stat. Ann.-

§ 153-.2-8 (1963); Fla. Stat. § 731.29 (1965); Ga. Code Ann. §74-103
(1964); Idaho Code § i4-104 (1947); Ind. Ann. Stat. § 6-207 (1953)
[adjudication of paternity required]; Iowa Code § 633.222 (1971);
Kan. Stat. Ann. §59-501 (1964); Mich. Stat.. Ann. §27.3178 (153)
(Supp. 1970); Minn. Stat. § 525.172 (1967); Mont. Rev. Codes Ann.
§91-404 (1964); Neb. Rev. Stat. §30-109 (1964); Nev. Rev. Stat."
§ 134.170 (1967); N. M. Stat. Ann. §29-1-18 "(1953)'; N. Y. Est.,
Powers & Trusts Law §4-1.2 (1967) [order of -filiation required];
Okla. Stat. Ann., Tit. 84, § 215 (1970); S. D. Compiled Laws Ann.
§29-1-15 (1967); Utah Code Ann. §74-4-10 (1953); Wash. Rev.
Code
§ 11.04.081 (1967); Wis. Stat. Ann. § 237.06 (Supp. 1970).
29 Ariz.
Rev. Stat. Ann. § 14-206 (1956); N. D. Cent. Code § 5601-05 (Supp. 1969)'; Ore. Rev. Stat. §§ 111231, 109.060 (1957).

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BpxNNAN, J.,, dissenting

401 U. S.

he never had any control. "Distinctions between citizens
solely because of their ancestry are by their very nature
odious to a free people whose institutions axe founded
upon the doctrine of equality." Hirabayashiv. United
States, 320 U. S. 81, 100 (1943). The state court below
explicitly upheld the statute on the ground that the
punishment of the child might encourage the parents to
marry. 0 If that is the State's objective, it can obviously
be attained far more directly by focusing on the parents
whose actions the State seeks to influence. Given the
importance and nature of the decision to marry, cf. Boddie
v. Connecticut, ante, p. 371, I think that disinheriting
the illegitimate child must be held to "bear no intelligi-'
ble proper relation to the consequences that are made
Glona v. Amerto flow" from the State's classification
ican .Guarantee & Liability Insurance Co., 391 U. S.,
at 81 .(HARnAL. J., dissenting).
In my judgment, only a moral prejudice, prevalent in
1825 when the Louisiana statutes under consideration
were adopted, can support Louisiana's discrimination
*against illegitimate children. Since I can find no rational
basis to justify the distinction Louisiana creates between
an acknowledged illegitimq child and a legitimate one,
that discrimination is clearly invidious."' Morey v.
Doud, 354 U. S. 457 (1957). I think the Supreme Court
of North Dakota stated the correct principle in invalidat30

The state court also argued that Louisiana's disinheritance of
the illegitimate would serve the State's interest in the stability of
land titles, by avoiding "the disruptions and uncertainties to result
from unknown and not easily ascertained claims thr6bgh averments
.of parentage.

..

."

229 So. 2dct 452.

This is simply a variation

on the State's interest in relying on formalities, see supra, at 552,
which is completely served by nublic acknowledgment of parentage
and simply does not apply to tbt. case of acknowledged illegitimate
children.
81 See n. 19, supra.

LABINE v. VINCENT
532

BRENNAN,

559

J., dissenting

ing an analogous discrimination in that State's inheritance laws: "This statute, which punishes innocenit children for their parents' transgressions, has no place in our
system of government; which has as one of its basic tenets
equal protection for all." In re Estate of Jensen, 162
N. W. 2d 861, 878 (1968).

