CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BAIRD v. STATE BAR OF ARIZONA
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARIZONA

No. 15. Argued December 8-9, 1969-Reargued October 14, 1970Decided February 23, 1971
Petitioner, who had passed the Arizona written bar examination,
listed all the organizations to which she belonged since age 16 on
the Bar Committee questionnaire, but refused to answer the question (No. 27) whether she had ever been a member of the Communist Party or any organization "that advocates overthrow of the
United States Government by force or violence." The committee
declined to process her application further or recommend her admission to the bar. The Arizona Supreme Court denied her petition for an order to show cause why she should not be admitted
to practice law. Held: The judgment of the Arizona Supreme
Court is reversed and the case is remanded. Pp. 5-10.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, joined by MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JusTICE BRENNAN, and MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, concluded that views

and beliefs are immune from bar committee inquisitions designed
to lay a foundation for barring an applicant from the practice of
law, which is a matter of right for one qualified by learning and
moral character. Pp. 5-8.
(a) A State's power' to inquire abou.t a person's beliefs or
associations is limited by the First Amendment, which prohibits a
State from excluding a person from a profession solely because of
membership in a political organization or because of his beliefs.
Pp. 5-6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of BLAcK, J.

401 U. S.

(b) While Arizona has a legitimate interest in determining
whether petitioner's character and professional competence qualify
her to practice law, petitioner has supplied the Bar Committee
with extensive personal and professional information to assist its
determination. Pp. 6-7.
MR. JUSTICE STEWART concluded that Question 27 is constitutionally infirm under the First and Fourteenth Amendments as it
is not confined to knowing membership in any organization that
advocates violent overthrow of the Government, and it is an inquiry into the proscribed area of political beliefs. Pp. 9-10.
'BLAcK, J., announced the Court's judgment and delivered an opinion, in which DOUGLAS, BRENNAN, and MARSHALL, JJ., joined.
STEWART, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, post, p. 9.
HARLAN, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 34. WHITE, J., filed a
dissenting opinion, post, p. 10. BLACK-AIUN, J.. filed a dissenting
opinion, in which BURGER, C. J., and HARLAN and WHITE, JJ., joined,
post, p. 11.

.Peter D. Baird reargued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were John P. Frank and Paul G.
Ulrich.
Mark Wilmer reargued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK announced the judgment of the

Court and delivered an opinion in which MR. JUSTICE
DOUGLAS,

MR.

JUSTICE

BRENNAN,

and

MR. JUSTICE

MARSHALL join.
This is one of two cases now before us from two
different States in which applicants have been denied
admission to practice law solely because they refused
to answer questions about their personal beliefs or their
affiliations "with organizations that advocate certain
ideas about government.' Sharp conflicts and close divisions have arisen in this Court concerning the power of
The other is No. 18, In re Stolar, post, p. 23. See also No. 49,
Law Students Civil Rights Research Council v. Wadmond, post, p.
154.
I

BAIRD v. STATE BAR OF ARIZONA
I

Opinion of BIcx, J.

States to refuse to permit applicants to practice law
in cases where bar examiners have been suspicious about
applicants' loyalties and their views on Communism and
revolution. This has been an increasingly divisive and
bitter issue for some years, especially since Senator
Joseph McCarthy from Wisconsin stirred up anti-Communist feelings and fears by his "investigations" in the
early 1950's. One applicant named Raphael Konigsberg was denied admission in California and this Court
reversed. Konigsberg v. State Bar, 353 U. S.252 (1957).
The State nevertheless denied him admission a second
time, and this Court then affirmed by a 5-to-4 decision.
366 U. S. 36 (1961). An applicant named Rudolph
Schware was denied admission in New Mexico and this
Court reversed, with five Justices agreeing on one
opinion, three Justices on another opinion, and one
not participating. Schware v. Board of Bar Examiners,
353 U. S. 232 (1957). In another case an applicant
named George Anastaplo was denied admission in Illinois on grounds similar to those involved in Konigsberg
and Schware, and the denial was affirmed by a 5-to-4
margin. In re Anastaplo, 366 U. S.82 (1961). See also
In re Summers, 325 U. S. 561 (1945). With sharp
divisions in this Court, our docket and those of the
Courts of Appeals have been filled for years with litigation involving inquisitions about beliefs and associations
and refusals to let people practice law and hold public
or even private jobs solely because public authorities
have been suspicious of their ideas.' Usually these de"nials of employment have not been based on any overt
acts of misconduct or lawlessness, and the litigation has
e. g., Adler v. Board of Education, 342 U. S. 485 (1952);
Beilan v.Board of Education, 357 U. S. 399 (1958); Elfbrandt v.
Russell, 384 U. S. 11 (1966); Keyishian v. Board of Regents, 385
U. S. 589 (1967)" United States v. Robel, 389 U. S. 258 (1967).
2 See,

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of BLAcx, J.

401 U.S.

continued to raise serious questions of alleged violations

of the First Amendment and other guarantees of the
Bill of Rights.3
The foregoing cases and others contain thousands of
pages of confusing formulas, refined reasonings, and
puzzling holdings that touch on the same suspicions and
fears about citizenship and loyalty. However we have
concluded the best way to handle this case is to narrate
its simple facts and then relate them to the 45 words that
make up the First Amendment.

These are the facts.
The petitioner, Sara Baird, graduated from law school
at Stanford University in California in 1967. So far as
the record shows there is not now and never has been
a single mark against her moral character. She has
taken the examination prescribed by Arizona, and 'the
answer of the State admits that she satisfactorily passed
it. Among the questions she answered was No. 25,
which called on her to reveal all organizations with
which she had been associated since she reached 16 years
of age.- This question she answered to the satisfaction
of the Arizona Bar Committee. Consequently there is
no charge or intimation that Mrs. Baird has not listed
the organizations to which she has belonged since becoming 16. In addition, however, she was asked to
state whether she had ever been a member of the Communist Party or any organization "that advocates overthrow of the United States Government by force or
3 See the cases cited in n. 2, supra. See also Shelton v.Tucker,
364 U. S. 479 (1960); American Communications Assn. v.Douds,
339 U. S. 382, 445 (1950) (BLAcK, J., dissenting); cf. Bates v. Little
Rock, 361 U. S. 516 (1960); Speiser v. Randall, 357 U. S. 513
(1958); Wilkinson v.United States, 365 U. S.399 (1961); NAACP
v. Alabama, 357 U. S. 449 (1958); Brandenburg v.Ohio, 395 U. S.
444 (1969).

-App. 18.

BAIRD v. STATE BAR OF ARIZONA"
1

Opinion of

BLACk, J.

violence." I When she refused to answer this question,
the Committee declined to process her application further or recommend her admission to the bar.' The
Arizona Supreme Court then denied her petition for
an order to the Committee to show cause why she should
not be admitted to practice law. We granted certiorari.
394 U. S. 957.
In Arizona it is perjury to answer the bar committee's
questions falsely, and perjury is punishable as a felony.
Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 13-561 (1956). In effect this
young lady was asked by the State to make a guess as to
whether any organization to which she ever belonged
"advocates overthrow of the United States Government
by force or violence." There may well be provisions of
the Federal Constitution other than the First Amendment that would protect an applicant to a state bar from
being subjected to a question potentially so hazardous to
her liberty. But whether or not there are other provisions that protect her, we think the First Amendment
does so here. That Amendment, made applicable to the
States by the Fourteenth, forbids any "law respecting an
establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise
thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the
press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble . . . ." Mr. Justice Roberts, in referring to the First
Amendment's guarantee of freedom of religion, said:
"Thus the Amendment embraces two concepts,-freedom to believe and freedom to act. The first is
absolute but, in the nature of things, the second
cannot be. Conduct remains subject to regulation
for the protection of society." Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 303-304 (1940).
5 Question No. 27, App. 18.
6Response of the Committee on Examinations and Admissions to
Order to Show Cause. App. 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of BLAcx, J.

401 U. S.

See also Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 160-161
(1939); West Virginia Board of Education v. Barnette,
319 U. S. 624, 642 (1943). And we have made it clear
that: "This conjunction of liberties is not peculiar to
religious activity and institutions alone. The First
Amendment gives freedom of mind the same security
as freedom of conscience." Thomas v. Collins, 323 U. S.
516, 531 (1945). The protection of the First Amendment also extends to. the right of association. As we
said in Schneider v. Smith, 390 U. S. 17, 25 (1968):
"The First Amendment's ban against Congress
'abridging' freedom of speech, the right peaceably
to assemble and to petition, and the 'associational
freedom"...

that goes with those rights create a

preserve where the views of the individual are made
inviolate."
See also Shelton v. Tucker, 364 U. S. 479, 485-487
(1960); Bates v. Little Rock, 361 U. S. 516 (1960);
NAACP v. Alabama, 357 U. S.449 (1958).
The First Amendment's protection of association prohibits a State from excluding a person from a profession
or punishi.ig him solely because he is a member of a particular political organization or because he holds certain
beliefs. United States v. Robel, 389 U. S.258, 266 (1967);
Keyishian v. Board of Regents, 385 U. S.589, 607 (1967).
Similarly, when a State attempts to make inquiries about
a person's beliefs or associations, its power is limited by
the First Amendment. Broad and sweeping state inquiries into these protected areas, as Arizona has engaged
in here, discourage citizens from exercising rights protected by the Constitution. Shelton v. Tucker, supra;
Gibson v. Florida Legislative Investigation Committee,
372 U. S.539 (1963); Cf. Speiser v. Randall, 357 U. S.
513 (1958).
When a State seeks to inquire about an individual's
beliefs and associations a heavy burden lies upon it

BAIRD v. STATE BAR OF ARIZONA

1

Opinion of

BLACK, J.

to show that the inquiry is necessary to protect a
legitimate state interest. Gibson v. Florida Legislative
Investigation Committee, supra, at 546. Of course Arizona has a legitimate interest in determining whether
petitioner has the qualities of character and the professional competence requisite to the practice of law. But
here petitioner has *already supplied the Committee with
extensive personal and professional information to assist
its determination. By her answers to questions other
than No. 25, and her listing of former employers, law
school professors, and other references, she has made
available to the Committee the information relevant to
her fitness to practice law." And whatever justification
may be offered, a State may not inquire about a man's
views or associations solely for the purpose of withholding a right or benefit because of what he believes.
Much has been written about the application of the
First Amendment to cases where penalties have been
imposed on people because of their beliefs. Some of
what has been written is reconcilable with what we
have said here and some of it is not. Without
7Respondent has argued that even when an applicant has
answered Question 25, listing the organizations to which she has
belonged since the age of 16, Question 27 still serves a useful and
legitimate function. Respondent urges:
"Assume an answer including an organization by name such as
'The Sons and Daughters of I Will Arise.' This could truly be a
Christian group with religious objectives. But also it could be an
organization &,tvoted to the objectives of Lenin, Stalin or any other
deceased person whose teachings and objectives were not conddcive
to the continued security and welfare of our government and way of
life." Brief for Respondent 8.
The organizations petitioner listed in response to question 25
were: Church Choir; Girl Scouts; Girls Athletic Association; Young
Republicans; Young Democrats; Stanford Law Association; Law
School Civil Rights Research Council.. Respondent does not state
which of these organizations may threaten the security of the
Repuolic.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of BLAcK, J.

401 U. S.

detailed reference to all prior cases, it is sufficient to
say we hold that views and beliefs are immune from
bar association inquisitions designed to lay a foundation for barring an applicant from the practice of law.
Clearly Arizona has engaged in such questioning here.'
The practice of law is not a matter of grace, but of
right for one who is qualified by his learning and his
moral character. See Schware v. Board of Bar Examiners, supra, and Ex parte Garland,4 Wall. 333 (1867).
This record is wholly barren of one word, sentence, or
paragraph that tends to show this lady is not morally and
professionally fit to serve honorably and well as a member of the legal profession. It was error not to process
her application and not to admit her to the Arizona Bar.
-The judgment of the Arizona Supreme Court is reversed
and the case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
[For dissenting opinion of MR.
post, p. 34.]

JuSTICE HARLAN,

see

8 The committee urges that it is entitled to demand an answer to
Question 27 because:
"Unless we are to conclude that one who truly and sincerely
believes in the overthrow of the United States Government by
force and violence is also qualified to practice law in our Arizona

courts, then an answer to this question is indeed appropriate. The
Committee again emphasizes that a mere answer of 'yes' would
not lead to an automatic rejection of the application. It would
lead to an investigation and interrogation as to whether or not the
applicant presently entertains the view that a violent overthrow of
the United States Government is something to be sought after. If
the answer to this inquiry was 'yes' then indeed we would reject
the application and recommend against, admission." (Emphasis
added.) Memorandum in Support of Response to Petition for
Order to Show Cause, App. 5-8.

BAIRD v. STATE BAR OF ARIZONA
STEWART,

J., concurring in judgment

concurring in judgment.
The Court has held that under some circumstances
simple inquiry into present or past Communist Party
membership of an applicant for admission to the Bar
is not as such unconstitutional. Konigsberg v. State
Bar, 366 U. S. 36; In re Anastaplo, 366 U. S. 82.
Question 27, however, goes further and asks applicants whether they have ever belonged to any organization "that advocates overthrow of the United States
Government by force or violence." Our decisions have
made clear that such inquiry must be confined to knowing membership to satisfy the First and Fourteenth
Amendments. See, e. g., United States v. Robel, 389
U. S. 258, 265-266; Law Students Civil Rights Research
Council v. Wadmond, post, p. 154, at 165. It follows from
these decisions that mere membership in an organization can never, by itself, be sufficient ground for a
State's imposition of civil disabilities or criminal punishment. Such membership can be quite different from
knowing membership in an organization advocating the
overthrow of the Government by force or violence, on the
part of one sharing the specific intent to further the
organization's illegal goals. See Scales v. United States,
367 U. S. 203, 228-230; Law Students Civil Rights Research Council v. Wadmond, supra.
There is a further constitutional infirmity in Arizona's
Question 27. The respondent State Bar is the agency.
entrusted with the administration of the standards for
admission to practice law in Arizona. And the respondent's explanation of its purpose in asking the question
makes clear that the question must be treated as an
inquiry into political beliefs. For the respondent explicitly states that it would recommend denial of admission solely because of an applicant's beliefs that the
respondent found objectionable. 'Cf. Wadmond, supra,at
MR. JUSTICE STEWART,

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
WHITE,

J., dissenting

4011U. S.

162-163. Yet the First and Fourteenith Amendments bar
a State from acting against any person merely because
of his beliefs. E. g., West Virginia Board of Education,
v. Barnette, 319 U. S. 624, 642; Cantwell v. Connecticut,
310 U. S. 296, 303-304. Cf. Carrington v. Rash, 380
U. S. 89, 94.
MR. JUSTICE WRITE,

dissenting.*

I am quite unable to join the opinions of MR. JUSTICE
BLACK announcing the judgments of the Court in these
cases. It is my view that the Constitution does not
require a State to admit to practice a lawyer who
believes in violence and intends to implement that belief
in his practice of law and advice to clients. I also believe that the State may ask an applicant preliminary
questions that will permit further investigation and
reasoned, articulated judgment as to whether the applicant will or will not advise lawless conduct as a practicing
lawyer.
Arizona has no intention of barring applicants based
on belief alone. This my Brother BLACKMuTJ makes
quite clear. Its inquiries were designed to ascertain
whether an applicant expects actively to support illegal
violence or espouses an activist role in implementing that
idea.
Ohio tales much the same approach, and in my view
both States are right. If, as a preface to further questions, New York may ask whether an applicant is a knowing member of the Communist Party, although that fact
alone would not be ground for exclusion, see Law Students Civil Rights Research Council v. Wadmond, post,
p. 154, Arizona and Ohio may ask about simple membership for the same justifiable reason. And if investigation
reveals the applicant to be actively furthering the illgal
*[This opinion applies also to No. 18, In re Stolar, post, p. 23.]

BAIRD v. STATE BAR OF ARIZONA
1

BLAcKmuN, J., dissenting

activities of any group or to be without comprehension
that advising lawless conduct is incompatible with professional standards, the State should be able to deny
admission to the Bar.
As MR. JusTICE BLAcK's opinions hasten to assure us,
a State may assure itself of an applicant's "qualities of
character" and educational qualifications. Accordingly,
it would -be entitled to make an assessment of his
"honesty" and refuse to license him if firmly convinced
by his responses or other record evidence that fie would
not conform to the standards of integrity expected of
the members of the Bar. Neither should it be required
to admit to practice a person who believes in violent
conduct to achieve social, political, or other ends and
who is currently and actively supporting such activities
or who expects to do so in the course of -advising clients
in his professional role. I thus see no constitutional
basis for forbidding the asking of perfectly relevant questions designed to ascertain whether an applicant considers
it the proper role of the lawyer, as practitioner, to advise
and advocate violence as a means for settling disputes
or achieving social or political ends. I therefore dissent
from the judgments in both of these cases.
with whom THE CHaIEF
JUSTICE, MR. JusTIcE HARLAN, and MR.JUSTICE WHITE
join, dissenting.
M

. JUSTICE

BLACKMUN,

This, for me, is not at all a case involving mere
personal beliefs on the part of Sara Baird.
I have necessarily assumed, and I trust not erroneously, that Konigsberg v. State Bar, 366 U. S. 36, and
In re Anastaplo, 366 U. S. 82, both decided on April 24,
1961, have remained good law despite the Court's
then close division (Justice HARILA and Justices Frankfurter, Clark, Whittaker, and -STEWART in the majority;
Justice BLACK and'Chief Justice Warren, and Justices

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BLAcKmuN, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

and BRmNNAN, dissenting). Neither case has
ever been expressly overruled. Neither is now expressly overruled. In each of the cases the Court decided, at the very least, as MR.JUsTIcE STEWART puts
it in his separate concurrence here, that "under some
circumstances simple inquiry into present or past Communist Party membership of an applicant for admission
to the Bar is not as such unconstitutional."
I think the Court really decided more than that. I
say this because (a) in Konigsberg the applicant had
"reiterated unequivocally his disbelief in violent overthrow, and stated that he had never knowingly been a
member of any organization which advocated such
action," 366 U. S., at 39; (b) the Court stated that it
thought it "clear that the Fourteenth Amendment's
protection against arbitrary state action does not forbid
a State from denying admission to a bar applicant so
long as he refuses to provide. unprivileged answers to
questions having a substantial relevance to his qualifications," 366 U. S., at 44; that:

DOUGLAS

"We likewise regard as untenable petitioner's contentions that the questions as to Communist Party
membership were made irrelevant either by the fact
that bare, innocent membership is not a, ground of
disqualification or by petitioner's willingness to answer such ultimate questions as whether he himself
believed in violent overthrow or knowingly belonged
to an organization advocating violent overthrow,"
366 U. S.,'at 46;
and that:
"It would indeed be difficult to argue that a belief,
firm enough to be carried over into advocacy, in
the use of illegal means to change the form of the
State or Federal Government is an unimportant consideration in determining the fitness of applicants

BAIRD v. 'STATE BAR OF ARIZONA
BiLcxvw, J., dissenting

for riembership in a profession i

whose hands so

largely lies the safekeeping of this country's legal
'and
political institutions.
"[W]e regard the State's interest .n having lawyers
who are devoted to the law in its bradest sense,
including not only its substantive provisions, but

also its procedures for orderly change, as clearly
sufficient to outweigh the minimal effect upon free
association occasioned by compulsory disclosure in
the circumstances here presentdd," 366 U. S., at
51-52;
•and (c) in Anastaplo it was observed:
"We have also held in Konigsberg that the StAte's
interest in enforcing such a rule as applied to refusals
to answer *questionsabout membership in the Communist .Party. outweighs any deterrent effect upon
freedom of -peech and association, and hence that
such state action does not 'offend the Fourteenth Amendment."
(Footnote omitted:) 366 U. S.,
at 89.
Petitioner Baird,' however, attacked the" integrity of
these cases before the Arizona court and again attacks
their integrity here and claims that,_ although perhapi
distinguishable, the cases 'warrant.
. delimiting, and
perhaps even overruling in light of the trend since 1961."
jn my view, Mrs. Baird has now had striking success
in her overruling, endeavor despite the seeming recognition of the two cases in the opinion of te plurality for
reversal (hereafter plurality) and the separate concurrence's definite bow in their direction.
The present case comes here, after argument for the
second time, in a stark and clear po~sture, Mrs. Baird,.
.applicant for admission to the 'Bar of the State of Arizona, possessor- of an acadermic degree from Colorado
College, and possessor of a degree, in law from Stanford

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BLACKMUN, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

University, refuses to answer, other than to say "Not
Applicable," the 27th inquiry of a questionnaire which
the Arizona Supreme Court, by rule, has made a part
of the application for membership in the State Bar.'
That question reads:
"Are you now or have you ever been a member of
the Communist Party or any organization that advocates overthrow of the United States Government
by force or violence?"
The applicant bases this refusal (a) on the fact that
in her answer to a preceding inquiry, the 25th, she listed
the organizations of which she had been a member since
age 16, and (b) on the asserted legal propositions that
to compel her to answer is to deny her First Amendment
rights of freedom of belief and freedom of association,
her Fifth Amendment right not to incriminate herself,
and her Fourteenth Amendment right to due process.
In my view, applicant Baird vastly overstates her
case. On this record, I would affirm the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Arizona in denying Mrs. Baird's
petition for admission to practice law in the State's
courts.
There are several factors that prompt my conclusion:
1. Mrs. Baird is an intelligent and knowledgeable person. She holds a college degree and a graduate degree,
and, as is assumed here, she has demonstrated in the
Bar examination an acceptabl6 knowledge and mastery
of the law. There is no claimof vagueness or lack of
.awareness on her part of precisely what Question 27
meant or of what it was intended to probe. The applicant obviously knew the scope of the question and its
See 102 Ariz. XXIV, XXIX, and XXXVII, for the pertinent
provisions of Rule 28 (c) in effect at the time-Mrs. Baird submitted
her application. The rule wad amended, effective August 1, 1970,
in ways not relevant here. See 106 Ariz. XXXI.

BAIRD v. STATE BAR OF ARIZONA
BLACmuN, J., dissenting

concern with'the Party and with forceful and violent
overthrow of the Government.
2. Mrs. Baird's use.of the "Not Applicable" response
to Question 27 is not fully understandable. Of course,
she 'may have so phrased that answer hurriedly in the
passing thought that, with her listing of organizationsin response to Question 25; buttressed by the statement,
"This list includes all organizations that I can recall at
this time," and with those organizations on the list
obviously not within the .contemplation of Questioii 27,
the latter question was, indeed, "not applicable." After
all, she did employ the sam6 "not applicable" answer
on the form in no less than 16 other places; most of
these, because of their conditional context, could well
have been left blank and would have been expected to
be left blank, despite the general instruction that all
questions Were to be answered.
Nevertheless she did respond to the inquiry in that
manner and, as her brief states, she now has "declined
to answer" -the questioni This, then, leaves this litigation in the posture where the- response to Question 27
was not inadvertent and was not the product of any
misunderstanding or mistake, where an answer is now
flatly refused, and where the applicant, perhaps somewhat defiantly, is content to have the record remain as
it is and to have her case won or.lost on that record.
This is reminiscent of the obstructionist tactics con-demned in Konigsberg and Anastaplo.
3. For Mrs. Baird to say that becausa -she had answered Question 25 and had listed her organization memberships since age 16 she need not respond to Question 27
is no answer at all.2 . To answer the one question fully
'and to refuse to respond to the other embraces an obvious
- The majority, of course, obviously would hold that Question 25
also was impermissible. In re' Stolar, post, p. 23. Mrs. Baird,

however, appears to have had no hesitancy in answering that inquiry.

.OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BACKMUN,

J., dissenting

401 U. S.

inconsistency of position, for the two questions are related. Furthermore, the questions are not duplicative.
By her refusal to answer Question 27, she would place
on the Arizona Committee on Examinations and Admissions 3 and on the Supreme Court of Arizona the burden
of determining which of the organizations she listed, if
any, was an arm of the Communist Party or advocated
forceful or violent overthrow of the Government. That,
however, is not the task of the Committee or of the
Arizona Supreme Court. It is Sara Baird's task. It is
a truism, I think, that the Communist endeavor works
beneath the surface as well as in the open and that
high-sounding names have been the front and the verbal
shield for something very different from what the name
imports.
4. No one is in a better position to know the aim and
purpose and advocacy of an organization than a member.
Certainly the Committee and the Arizona Supreme
Court, which have other things to do, are not equipped
for the task of checking out the identity of every named
organization, especially one which might follow the
standard of the less said and known, the better. And
Mrs. Baird would place this burden on the Committee
by submitting partial answers. She gives the appearance
of playing a game. The importance of the subject deserves better than that.
5. It has been said that the burden is on the applicant.
Application of Courtney, 83 Ariz. 231, 233, 319 P. 2d 991,
993 (1957). But a most minimal burden it is. Had she
answered "None" to Question 27, that would have been
the end nf the matter in the absence of obvious prevarication. If she were in doubt, the answer "None to my
knowledge" would have accomplished the same result.
She chose neither answer. She chose, instead, to remain
silent and less than candid.
3See Arizona Supreme Court Rule 28 (o).

BAIRD v. STATE BAR OF ARIZONA

I

BLAcKmuN, J., dissenting

6. The plurality opinion, I feel, fails to place the issue
in exact focus. This is not a situation where, as that
opinion states, and even would do so in a perjury context, "Ifi effect this young lady was asked by the. State to
make a guess as to whether any organization to which she
Qver belonged 'advocates overthrow of the United States
Government by force or violence.'" It falls far short
of guesswork. Mrs. Baird either knew the answer or she
did not know it. If she knew, she coupled her knowledge
with an attempt to conceal. If she did not know, she had
only to state her lack of knowledge. This was no "guess"
and, absent the intent to deceive, it certainly was no
guess fraught with the risks of perjury.
7. Although Question 27, concededly, would have been
better phrased had if'gone on to inquire as to the applicant's own knowing participation in, and promotion of,
illegal goals, a realistic reading of the question discloses
that it is directed not at mere belief but at advocacy and
at the call to violent action .and force in pursuit of that
advocacy. Contrary to the plurality opinion's ,conclusion
and to that of the separate concurrence, I find nothing in
this record that indicates that Mrs. Baird automatically
would have been denied admission to the Bar had she
ansv~ered Question 27 in the affirmative. The record,
and the Committee's brief here,4 disclose exactly the
4 "The Committee would again emphasize that ithas formed no

judgment as to whether or not Sara Baird should or should not be
recommended for admission to the Bar of this State to this Court.
"The Committee would again emphasize to this Court that if the

answer to question No. 27 is 'yes' the Committee will then endeavor
to ascertain if Sara Baird does adhere to the view that the overthrow of the Government of this State and of the United States by
force and violence would be a desirable objective and that she would
expect to actively support sucli views. If this is the conclusion
reached by the Committee, it will undoubtedly reftse to recommend

Sara Baird for admission to the Bar of the State of Arizona. Should
the conclusion be that her membership .is of a nominal character

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BILCAcmuN, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

opposite. In its Memorandum, filed with the Arizona
court in support of its response to the order to show
cause, the Committee stated that no judgment as to
recommendation or nonrecommendation for admission
had been made; that an affirmative answer to Question
27 would lead to further inquiry as to Mrs. Baird's expectation actively to support the objective of violent
overthrow; and that, if her membership is of a nominal
character and she does not participate in the advocacy
views, there would be no legal basis for refusing a recommendation for admission.' The material quoted in the
and that she does not participate and adhere to"the views that a
violent overthrow of our government is desirable, then the Committee
would have no legal basis for refusing to recommend her for admission
to practice law under the decisions of the United States Supreme
Court . . . ." Respondent's Brief 2.

"The Committee, contrary to the repeated assertions and insinuations to the contrary in Petitioner's Brief, has also made it
abundantly clear that regardless of the political beliefs and views
of Sara .Baird it is only if she is found to actively believe in the
notion and espouses an activist role in implementing the notion that
our government be destroyed by force and violence that a favorable
recommendation will be refused her by the Committee .... " Respondent's Brief 3.
"The Committee has not and cannot in good conscience certify
to the Arizona Supreme Court that Sara Baird has the character
and moral fitness to practice law if she does actively support and
advocate the overthrow of the Government of the United States by
force and violence.' Respondent's Brief 6.
"The issue is simple. 'Is one who believes in and who is willing
to work to undermine and destroy the Government of the United
States qualified to be admitted to the practice of law?"' Respondent's Brief 13.
1The Memorandum states as its conclusion:
"The Committee would again emphasize that it has formed no
judgment as to whether or not Sara Baird should or should not be
recommended for admission to the Bar of this State to this Court.
"The Committee would again emphasize to this Court that if the
answer to question No. 27 is 'yes' the Committee will then endeavor
to ascertain if Sara Baird does adhere to the view that the over-

BAIRD v. STATE BAR OF ARIZONA

I

BiacKxuN, J., dissenting

plurality opinion's footnote 8 is from the body of the
Memorandum; my reading of that material, hiowever,
indicates only that further inquiry is then in order. I do
not share the opinion's interpretation of that material
as leing directed, to mere belief. The key words are
whether "violent overthrow ... is something to be
sought after." That is an inquiry into willingness to
participate in violence.
8. There is talk, of course, in the briefs here about
whether admission to the Bar and receiving authority
to practice law is a "right" or a "privilege." I am old
enough and old-fashioned enough always to have regarded
it more as a privilege than as a right: I at least thought
that was the tradition.
A century ago Mr. Justice
Field referred to the practice of law by a qualified person as a right and not as a matter of the State's grace
or favor. Ex parte Garland, 4 Wall. 333, 379 (1867).
The Arizona court has spoken in similar terms. Application of Klahr, 102 Ariz. 529, 531, 433 P. 2d 977, 979
(1967).. It could oppositely be stated, with just as much,
accuracy, as the Bar in -its brief here asserts, that, "one
qualified by character, integrity and learning has the
right to practice law." Indeed, this is precisely the way
the Arizona court has' phrased it: "[T]he practice of law
is not a privilege but a right, conditioned solely on the
requirement that a person have the necessary mental,
throw of the Government of this State and of the United States by
force and violence would be a desirable objective and that she would
expect to aitively support such views. If this is the conclusion
reached by the Committee, it will undoubtedly refuse to recommend Sara Baird for admission to the Bar of the State of Arizona.
Should the conclusion be that her membership is of a nominal character and that she does not participate and adhere to the views that
a violent overthrow of our government is desirable, then the Committee would have no legal basis for refusing to recommend her for
admission to practice law . .
0

Respondent's Brief 15.

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970

Bimcxmuk, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

physical and moral qualifications,"' Application of
Klahr, 102 Ariz., at 531, 433 P. 2d, at 979.. See also
Application of Levine, 97 Ariz. 88, 90-91, 397 P. 2d
205, 206-207 (1964), and Application of Burke, 87 Ariz.
336, 339, 351 P. 2d 169, 172 (1960).
. The characterization of Bar admissiofi
as a right or as
a privilege may be little more than an exercise in semantics. It seems to me that, whichever it may be, the State,
in granting the authority to practice law, with what
surely is the true privilege, not the right, to be entrusted
with a client's confidences, aspirations, freedom, life it-sXl, 2operty, and the very means of livelihood, demands
something more of the applicant than a formal certificate
of completion of a course of legal study and the ability
acceptably to answer a series of questions on a Bar examination. - It presumably dema'nds what fundamentally is
character. And it is character that a State holds out
to the public when it authorizes an applicant to practice
law.
9. Judges and Bar Examiners, of c6urse, should hesitate
to judge too strictly those seeking entrance to the profession. Certainly the impatience and far-ranging attitudes
of youthful years are not, in themselves, disqualifying.
That is part of th~e maturing process, especially for future
lawyers who must study, examine, select, and develop
their philosophies of life and of their profession. Mr.
Justice Frankfurter expressed it well:
"The bar has not enjoyed prerogatives; it has been
entrusted with anxious responsibilities. . . . From
a profession charged with such responsibilities there
must be exacted those qualities of truth-speaking, of
a high sense of honor, of granite discretion, of the
strictest observance of fiduciary responsibility, that
have, throughout the centuries, been compendiously
described as 'moral character.'

BAIRD v. STATE BAR OF ARIZONA
*I

BI~cuN., J., dissenting

"History overwhehrlmigly establishes that many
youths like. the petitioner were drawn by the mirage
of communism during the depression era, only 'to
have their eyes later opened to reality. Such experiences no doubt may disclose a woolly mind or
naive notions regarding the problems of society.
But facts of history that we would be arbitrary in
rejecting bar the presumption, let alone an irrebuttable presumption, that response to foolish, baseless
hopes regarding the betterment of society made
those who had entertained them but who later undoubtedly came to their senses and their sense of
responsibility 'questionable characters.'" Schware
v. Board of Bar.Examinere, 353 U. S.232, 247, 251
(1957) (concurring opinion).
10. An attorney, we sometimes tend to forget, is an officer of the court. Ex parte"Garland, 4 Wall., at 378.
Perhaps we read too much into that phrase. But there
is a distinct element of fact and of 'history in it. We
have seen, of late, an overabundance of courtroom spectacle brought about by attorneys-frequently those who,
being unlicensed in the particular State, are nevertheless
permitted, by the court's indulgence, to appear for clients
in a given case-ho give indications of ignoring their
responsibility to the courts and to the judicial process.
Question 27 bears upon this facet of an 'applicant's
character.
11. The plural..- opinion ackinowledges that Arizona
has a legitimate interest in determining whether the applicant has the "qualities of character" requisite for the
practice of law. But the opinion then goes on to prescribe when, in its judgment, the applicant has given a
sufficient amount of information to the committee. I
doubt if this Court is the proper tribunal to judge the
sufficiency of material supplied for legal practice'in Arizona. Of 6ourse there is a constitutional limit, but that

,OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BLcxmuw, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

limit is marked by the relevant, by the excesses of unreasonableness and of harassment, and by the otherwise
constitutionally forbidden. It should not be marked at
an arbitrary point where the applicant, for reasons of
convenience or assumed self-protection or contrariness,
decides that. enough is enough.
12. Finally, the State has a measure of a right to protect itself. Its area of possible vulnerability is nowhere
greater than in its courts and in its judicial process.
Courtroom events disclosed in recent litigation vividly
demonstrate this. See Illinois v. Allen, 397 U. S. 337
(1970); Mayberry v. Pennsylvania,400 U. S. 455 (1971).
Assurance that applicant Baird at least professes to refrain from forceful and violent overthrow of the Government of which, upon admission, she will become a true
and working part, and under which, for better or for
worse, she has lived and, judging by her exdellent education, has prospered and enjoyed some benefits, is a subject
of legitimate inquiry.
As stated above, on this record I would affirm the judgment of the Supreme Court of Arizona.

