MAGNESIUM CASTING CO. v. NLRB
Syllabus

MAGNESIUM CASTING CO. v. NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIRST CIRCUIT

No. 370. Argued January 18-19, 1971-Decided February 23, 1971
Following a unit determination hearing, the National Labor Relations
Board (NLRB) regional director concluded that three individuals
were employees rather than supervisors and thus includible in the
proposed bargaining unit at petitioner company's plant. The
NLRB denied petitioner's request for review. Following an election, the regional director jertified the union is the exclusive bargaining representative. Subsequently, the NLRB upheld a finding
that petitioner's refusal to bargain constituted an unfair labor
practice. Petitioner moved for reconsideration on the ground that
the NLRB was required to give plenary review to the regional
director's representation determination before issuing an unfair
labor practice order based on that. determination. The motion was
denied and the Court of Appeals enforced the NLRB's order.
Held: Under § 3 (b) of the National Labor Relations Act the
NLRB is permitted to delegate to the regional director its authority
to determine the appropriate bargaining unit, and plenary review
by the NLRB of such determination is. not mandatory. Pp. 141143.
427 F. 2d 114, affirmed.
DouGLAs, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Louis Chandler argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief was Jerome H. Somers.
Norton J. Come argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Griswold,
Win. Terry Bray, Arnold Ordman, and Dominick L.

Manoli.
Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed by
Jerry Kronenberg and Alan Raywid for the Terminal
Freight Cooperative !ssociation, and by William L.
Dennis for Olson Bodies, Inc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U.S.

Briefs of amid curiae urging affirmance were filed by
Bernard Kleiman, Elliot Bredhoif, Michael H. Gottesman, and George H. Cohen for the United Steelworkers
of America, AFL-CIO, and by Benjamin Rubenstein for
International Union, U. A. W.
IMR.
Court.

JusTIcE]

DouGLAs delivered the opinion of the

Section 3 (b) of the-National Labor Relations Act, as
amended, 61 Stat. 139, 73 Stat. 542, 29 U. S. C. § 153 (b),
authorizes the National Labor Relations Board to delegate to its regional directors the power to determine the
unit appropriate for collective bargaining.' The Board
accordingly adopted rules delegating to its regional directors its powers to determine representation issues and
defining the conditions when the Board will review the
determination of a regional director.2
ISee. 3 (b) provides in relevant part:

"The Board is also authorized to delegate to its regional directors
its powers under section 9 to determine the unit appropriate for the
purpose of collective bargaining, to investigate and provide for
hearings, and determine whether a question of representation exists,
and to direct an election or take a secret ballot under subsection (c)

or (e) of section 9 and certify the results thereof, except that upon
the filing of a request therefor with the Board by any interested
person, the Board may review any action of a regional director
delegated to him under this paragraph, but such a review shall not,
unless specifically ordered by the Board, operate as a stay of any
action taken by the regional director. .. "
2The rules are contained in 29 CFR § 102.67. Subsections 102.67
(c), (d), and (f) state in relevant part:
I "(c) The Board will grant a request for review only where com-

pelling reasons exist therefor. Accordingly, a request for review may
be granted only upon one or more of the following grounds:
"(1) That a substantial question of law or policy is raised be-

cause of (i) the absence of, or (ii) a departure from, officially reported Board precedent.

"(2) That the regional director's decision on a substantial factual

MAGNESIUM CASTING CO. v. NLRB
137

Opinion of the Court

On filing of a representation petition, § 9 (c) (1) provides that a hearing shall be held to determine if a
question of representation exists and, if so, the appropriate bargaining unit. If an election is directed and
the union prevails, it is certified as the employees' bargaining representative. An employer who contests the
election, including the unit determination, can only obtain court review under § 10 after an unfair labor practice
charge has been made against him by the Board for
refusing to bargain collectively "with the representatives
of his employees" as pravided in § 8 (a) (5).
In that review, however, the determination of the bargaining unit by the regional director need not be reviewed
by the Board. Whether the Board reviews the initial
decision on the merits, see PittsburghPlate Glass Co. v.
NLRB, 313 U. S. 146, 162, or the employer fails to
request review of the action of the regional director, or
the Board denies a request for review, the Board has
issue is clearly erroneous on the record and such error prejudicially
affects the rights of a party.
"(3) That the conduct of the hearing or any ruling made in connection with the proceeding has resulted in prejudicial error.
"(4) That there are compelling reasons for reconsideration of an
important Board rule or policy.
"(d) .

.

. With respect to paragraph .(c) (2) of this section, and

other grounds where appropriate, said request must contain a summary of all evidence or rulings bearing on the issues together with
page citations from the transcript and a summary of argument. But
such request may not raise any issue or allege any facts not timely
presented to the regional director."
"(f) ... Failure to request review shall preclude such parties
from relitigating, in any related subsequent unfair labor practice
proceeding, any issue which was, or could have been, raised in the
representation proceeding. Denial of a request for review shall constitute an affirmance of the regional director's action which shall
also preclude relitigating any such issues in any related subsequent
unfair labor practice proceeding."

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

discretion to reopen the issue where newly discovered
noncumulative evidence is available.'
The United Steelworkers filed a petition requesting a
representation election among the production and maintenance employees at petitioner's Hyde Park, Massachusetts, plant. The regional director provided a hearing
and the essential issues tendered concerned four individuals classified as "assistant foremen." The question was
whether they were employees and properly within the
unit or supervisors as defined in § 2 (11) of the Act and
therefore excluded. The regional director found that
three were employees and ordered an election in a unit
consisting of all the employees, including the three.
Petitioner filed a request with 'the Board to review the
decision of the regional director that the three men in
question were employees, contending that such determination was clearly erroneous. The Board denied petitioner's request for review and an election was held.
Thereafter the regional director certified the union as
the exclusive bargaining representative of the employees.
When petitioner refused to bargain, the union filed an
unfair labor practice charge with the Board. The trial
examiner found for the union and the Board affirmed.
175 N. L. R. B. No. 68.
Petitioner moved for reconsideration claiming the
Board must review the regional director's representation
determination before issuing an unfair labor practice
order based on it. Petitioner's reliance was on PepsiCola Co. v. NLRB, 409 F. 2d 676, decided by the Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit. The Board denied that
motion, noting its disagreement with the Pepsi-Colacase.
The Court of Appeals enforced the Board's order,'
3

See rules, supra, n. 2.
'The Tenth Circuit is in accord-with the First. See Meyer Dairy,
Inc. v. NLRB, 429 F. 2d 697, 699-700.

MAGNESIUM CASTING CO. v. NLRB

137

Opinion of the Court

427 F. 2d 114, thus creating the conflict among .the circuits which led us to grant the. petition for certiorari.
400 U. S. 818.
Petitioner argues that plenary review by the Board of
the regional director's unit determination, is necessary
at some point. Historically, the representation issue once'
fully litigated in the representation proceeding could not
be relitigated in an unfair labor practice proceeding. We
so held in PittsburghPlate Glass Co. v. NLRB, supra.
That case, of course, was decided when the determination
of the appropriate unit was made by the Board itself.
In 1959, § 3 (b) was added. Senator Goldwater, a member of the Conference Committee explained its purpose:
"[Section 3 (b)] is a new provision, not in either
the House or Senate bills, designed to expedite final
disposition of cases by the Board, by turning over
part of its caseload to its regional directors for final
determination.
"Under this provision, the regional directors can
exercise no authority in representation cases which
is greater or not the same as thie statutory powers
of the Board with respect to such cases. In the
handling of such cases, the regional directors are
required to follow the lawful rules, regulations, procedures, and precedents of the Board and to act in.
all respects as the Board itself would act.
"This authority to delegate to the regional directors is designed, as indicated, to speed the work of
the Board. .

....

We take this statement to reflect the considered judgment of Congress that the regional directors have an
expertise concerning unit determinations.' Or perhaps
5105 Cong. R6c. 19770.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

Congress was primarily motivated by a desire to lighten
the Board's workload and speed up its processes. Its
recent report 6 shows that in fiscal year 1969, a total
of 1,999 formal representation decisions were issued either
directing elections or dismissing election petitions; 1,872
of these were rendered by regional directors, and 127 by
the Board (100 on direct transfer from the regional directors for initial decision and 27 on grant of a request for
review of the regional director's decision).
But for the. 1959 amendment the Board would have
decided all of those cases.
Whatever the reason for the delegation, Congress has
made a clear choice; and the fact that the Board has
only discretionary review of the determination of the
regional director creates no possible infirmity within the
range of our imagination.
The fact that Congress in 1961 rejected a reorganization plan which would have delegated decisionmaking
power in unfair labor practice cases to the hands of trial
examiners subject to discretionary Board review 7 has no
bearing on the present problem. The choices Congress
may make in deciding what delegation of authority is
appropriate do not in the present context raise any semblance of a substantial question. For it is unmistakably
plain here that by § 3 (b) Congress did allow the Board
to make a delegation of its authority over determination
of the appropriate bargaining unit to the regional
director.
The Board's rules 8 make clear that the regional director is required to follow the same rules as the Board
respecting factfinding.9 The regional director's deter6 34th Annual Report, Table 3B, 201 (1970).
7 107 Cong. Rec. 10223, 12905-12932.
See rules, supra,n. 2.
S29 CFR § 102.67 (b).

MAGNESIUM CASTING CO. v. NLRB
Opinion of the Court

mination if adopted by the trial examiner in the unfair
labor practice proceeding accompanies the case bioth to
the Board 10 and to the Court of Appeals.1 " In the present case the Court of Appeals concluded that the2Board's"
order was supported -"by substantial evidence."
Congress has required no greater showing than that.

Affirmed.

10 29 CFR § 102.45 (a).

1129 CFR § 101.14.
12There is no different standard of review prescribed by the Administrative Procedure Act. 5 U. S. C. § 706 (1964 ed., Supp. V).
See Universal Camera Corp. v. NLRB, 340 U. S. 474, 487.

