BOILERMAKERS v. HARDEMAN

233

Syllabus

INTERNATIONAL. BROTHERHOOD OF BOILERMAKERS, IRON SHIPBUILDERS,. BLACKSMITHS, FORGERS AND HELPERS,
AFL-CIO v. HARDEMAN
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR.
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT

No. 123.

Argued December 16, 1970-Decided February 24, 1971

Respondent, who was a member of petitioner union, assaulted the
business manager of his local for allegedly failing to refer him for
a job, and was tried for this tonduct by the union on charges of
(1) creating dissension and working against the interest and harmony of the local, which carried a penalty of expulsion, and (2)
threatening and using force to restrain an officer from discharging the duties of his union office, punishable "as warranted by the
offense." He was found "guilty as charged" and expelled for an
indefinite period. He later brought suit for damages alleging that
petitioner violated § 101 (a) (5) of the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act by denying him a full and fair hearing in
the disciplinary proceedings. The District Judge found that there
was no transcript evidence to support the' charge of creating dissension, and since the union tribunal had returned only a general
verdict, held that respondent was deprived of the statutory "full
and fair hearing." The Court of Appeals affirmed. Certiorari
was granted to consider whether the subject matter was pre-empted
because exclusively within the competence of the National Labor
Relations Board, or, if not, whether the courts below had applied
the proper standard of review. Held:
1. This action was within the competence of the District Court,
as the issues here are whether respondent was denied rights guaranteed him by § 101 (a) (5), and, if so, his consequent entitlement,
pursuant to the federal statute, to damages for that denial, questions that are irrelevant to the legality of conduct under the
National Labor Relations Act. Pp. 237-241.
2. Section 101 (a) (5) does not empower courts to determine
what conduct may warrant disciplinary action by a union against
its members. Pp. 242-245.
3. The statutory "full and fair hearing" requires that the charging party provide some evidence at the hearing to support the

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

charges, and here there was sufficient evidence to support the
finding that respondent assaulted the business manager as charged.
Pp.-245-247.
420 F. 2d 485, reversed.
BRENNAN, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BuRGER,
HARLAN, STEWART, WHITE, MARsHALL, and
BLACKmUN, JJ., joined. WHITe, J., filed a concurring opinion, post,
p. 247. DOuGLAs, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 247.

C. J., and BLAcK,

Louis Sherman argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief' were Elihu I. Leifer and Bernard
Cushman.
Robert E. McDonald, Jr., argued the cause and filed a
brief for respondent.
J. Albert Woll, Laurence Gold, and Thomas E. Harris
filed a brief for-the American Federation -of Labor and
Congress of Industrial Organizations, AFL-CIO, as
amicus curiae urging reversal.
MR. JusTICE BIENNAw delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Section 102 of the Labor-Management Reporting and
Disclosure Act (hereafter LMRDA) provides that a
union member who charges that his union violated his
rights under Title I of the Act may bring a civil action
against the union in a district court of the United States
for appropriate relief.' Respondent was expelled from
'Section 102 of the Act, 73 Stat. 523, 29 U. S. C. § 412, provides:
"Any person" whose rights secured by the provisions of this title

have been infringed by any violation of this title may bring a civil
action- in a district court of the United States for such relief
(including injunctions) as may be appropriate. Any such action
against a labor organization shall be brought in the district court
of the United States for the district where the allege4 violation
occurred, or where the priincipal office of such labor organization
is located."'

BOILERMAKERS v. HARDEMAN
233

Opinion of the Court

membership in petitioner union and brought this action
under § 102 in the District Court for the Southern District of Alabama. He alleged that in expelling him the
petitioner violated § 101 (a) (5) of theAct, 73 Stat. 523,
29 U. S. C. § 411 (a) (5) which provides: "No member of
any labor organization may be fined, suspended, expelled,
or otherwise disciplined except for nonpayment of dues by
such organization or by any officer thereof unless such
member has been (A) served with written specific charges;
(B) given a reasonable time to prepare his defense;
(C) afforded a full and fair hearing." A jury awarded
respondent damages of $152,150. The Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit affirmed. 420 F. 2d 485 (1969).2
We granted certiorari limited to the questions whether
the subject matter of the suit was pre-empted because
exclusively within the competence of the National Labor
Relations Board and, if not pre-empted, whether the
courts below had applied the proper standard of review
to the union proceedings, 398 U. S. 926 (1970). We
reverse.
The case arises out of events in the early part of October 1960. Respondent, George Hardeman, is a boilermaker. He was then a member of petitioner's Local
Lodge 112. On October 3, he went to the union hiring
hall to see Herman Wise, business manager of the Local
Lodge and the official responsible for referring workmen
for jobs. Hardeman had talked to a friend of his, an
employer who had promised to ask for him by name for a
job in the vicinity. He sought assurance from Wise that
he would be referred for the job. When Wise refused to
make a definite commitment, Hardeman threatened vio-.
lence if no work was forthcoming in the next few days.
On October 4, Hardeman returned to the hiring, hall
2

The affirmance was on the basis of Boilermakers v. Braswe/, 388
F. 2d 193 (CA5 1968).

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

and waited for a referral. None was forthcoming. The
next day, in his words, he "went to the hall . . . and
waited from the time the hall opened until we had the
trouble. I tried to make up my mind what to do, whether
to sue the Local or Wise or beat hell out of Wise, and
then I made up my mind." When Wise came out of his
office to go to a local jobsite, as required by his duties as
business manager, Hardeman handed him *a.
copy of a
telegram asking for Hardeman by name. As Wise was
reading the telegram, Hardeman began punching him in
the face.
Hardeman was tried for this conduct on charges of creating dissension and working against the interest and
harmony of the Local Lodge, a and 'of threatening and
using force to restrain an officer of the Local Lodge from
properly discharging the duties of his office.4 The trial
3Article XIII, § 1, of the Subordinate Lodge Constitution then in
force provided:
"Any member who endeavors to create dissension among the
members; or who works against the interest and harmony of the
International Brotherhood or of any District or Subordinate Lodge;
who advocates or encourages a division of the funds, or the dissolution of any District or Subordinate Lodge, or the separation of any
District or Subordinate Lodge from the International Brotherhood;
who supports or becomes a member of any dual or subversive
organization which shall be hostile to the International Brotherhood
or to any of its- Subordinate Lodges, or which is anfagonistic to
the principles and purposes of the International Brotherhood, shall
upon conviction thereof be punished by expulsion from the International Brotherhood."
4
Article XII, § 1, of the Subordinate Lodge By-Laws then in force
provided that: "It shall be a violation of these By-Laws for any
member through the use of force or violence or the threat of the
use of force or violence to restrain, coerce or intimidate, or attempt
to restrain, coerce or intimidate any official of this International
Brotherhood or Subordinate Lodge to prevent or attempt to,prevent
him from properly discharging the duties of his office." Violators
of Art. XII are to "be punished as warranted by the offense."

BOILERMAKERS v. HAERDEMAN
233

Opinion of the Court

committee found him "guilty as charged," and the Local
Lodge sustained the finding and voted his expulsion for
an indefinite period. Internal union review of this ac-

tion, instituted by Hardeman, modified neither the verdict
nor the penalty. Five years later, Hardeman brought
this suit alleging 'that petitioner violated § 101 (a) (5) by
denying him a full and fair hearing in the union disciplinary proceedings.
I

We consider first the union's claim that the subject
matter of this lawsuit is, in the first instance, within the
exclusive competence of. the National, Labor Relations
Board. The union argues that the gravamen of Hardeman's complaint-which did not seek reinstatement, but
only damages for wrongful expulsion, consisting of. loss
of income, loss of pension and insurance rights, mental
anguish and punitive damages-is discrimination against
him in job referrals; that any such conduct on the part
of the union is at the very least arguably an unfair labor
practice under §§ 8 (b) (1) (A) and 8 (b) (2) of the Na-tional Labor Relations Act, 61 Stat. 141, as amended,
29 U. S. C. §§ 158 (b) (1) (A), 158 (b) (2) ;,
and that in
such circumstances, "the federal courts must defer to the
exclusive competence of the National Labor Relations
Board if the danger of . . .interference with national

policy is to be averted." San Diego Building Trades
Council v. Garmon, 359 U. S.236, 245 (1959); see Local.
100, Journeymen v. Borden, 373 U. S.690 (1963).
We think the union's argument is misdirected. Hardeman's complaint alleged that his expulsion was unlawful
under § 101 (a) (5), and sought compensation for the
consequences of the claimed wrongful expulsion. The
critical issue presented by Hardeman's complaint was
whether the union disciplinary proceedings had denied
him a full and fair hearing within the meaning of § 101

OCTOBER TERM, 1970

Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

(a) (5) (C).1 Unless he could establish this claim, Hardeman would be out of court. We hold that this claim was
not within the exclusive. competence of the National
Labor Relations Board.
"'The doctrine of primary jurisdiction . . .applies where a claim is originally cognizable in the
courts, and comes into play whenever enforcement
of the claim requires the resolution of issues which,
under a regulatory scheme, have been placed within
the special competence of an administrative body;
'in such a case the judicial process is suspended
pending referral of such issues to the administrative
body for its views.' United States v. Western Pac.
* R. Co., 352 U. S. 59, 63-64. The doctrine is based
on the- principle 'that in cases raising issues of fact
not within the conventional experience of judges or
cases requiring the exercise of administrative discretion, agencies created by Congress for regulating
the subject matter should not be passed over,' Far
East Conference v. United States, 342 U. S. 570,
574, and 'requires judicial abstention in cases where
,protection of the integrity of a regulatory scheme
dictates preliminary resort to the agency which administers the scheme,' United States v. Philadelphia
Nat. Bank, 374 U. S. 321, 353." Local 189, Amalgamated Meat Cutters v. Jewel Tea Co., 381 U. S.
676, 684-,685 (1965) (opinion of WHIT, J., announcing judgment).
Those factors suggesting that resort must be had to the
administrative process are absent from the present case.
The fairness of an internal union discipliiary proceeding is hardly a question beyond "the conventional ex5

Hardeman's complaint did not claim that the charges 'vere
insufficiently specific, or that he did-not have adequate time to
prepare his defense in the union proceedings.

BOILERUKERS v. HARDEMAN
233

Opinion of the Court

perience of judges," 'nor can it be said to raise issues
"within the special competence" of the NLRb.: See
NLRB v. Allis-Chalmers Mfg. Co., 388 U. S. 175, 181,
193-194 (1967).. As we noted in that case, the 86th
Congress which enacted §101 (a) (5) was "plainly of
the view" that the protections embodied, terein were
new material in the body of federal labor law. 388 U. S.,
at 194. And that same Congress explicitly referred
claims under § 101 (a) (5), not to the, NLRB, but to
the federal district courts. This is made explicit in the
opening sentence of § 102: "Any person whose rights
secured .by the .provisions of this title have been infringed by any violation of this title may bring a civil
action in a district court of the United States for suchrelief (including injunctions) as may be appropriate."
Of course, "[t]he purpose of Congress is the ultimate
touchstone." Retail Clerka Local 1625 v. Schermerhorn,
375 U. S. 96, 103 (1963). And in § 102- Congress has
clearly indicated a purpose to refer claims regarding
violation of § 101 (a) (5) to the district courts. The union argues that Hardeman's suit should nevertheless have been dismissed because he did not seek an
injunction restoring him to membership, and because he
did seek damages for loss of employment said to be the
consequence of his expulsion from the union. Taken
together, these factors are said to shift the primary focus
of the action from a review of Hardeman's expulsion to
a review of alleged union discrimination against him in
job referrals. Since this is a maiter normally within'the
exclusive competence of the NLRB, see Local 100; Journeymen v. Borden, 373 U. S., at 695-696, the union
argues that Hardeman's suit was beyond the competence
of the district court.
The argument has no merit.. To-begin with,' the lahguage of § 102 does not appear to make the availability
'of damages turn upon whether an injunction is reqluested

OCTOBER TERM, 1970

Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

as well. If anything,. § 102 contemplates that damages
will be the usual, and injunctions the extraordinary form
of relief. Requiring that injunctive relief be sought as
•P, precondition to damages would have little effect other
than to force plaintiffs, as a matter of course, to add a
few words to their complaints seeking an undesired injunction. We see no reason to import into § 102 so
trivial a requirement.
Nor are our prior cases authority for such a result.
We have repeatedly.held, of course, that state law may
not regulate conduct either protected or prohibited by the
National Labor Relations Act. Local 100, Journeymen v.
Borden, 'supra; San. Diego Building Trades Council v.
Garmon, 359 U. S., at 244; Weber v. Anheuser-Busch,
Inc., 348 V. S. 468, 480-481 (1955); Garnerv. Teamsters
Union, 346 U. S. 485, 490-491 (1953). Where it has
not been clear whether particular conduct is protected,
prohibited, or left to state regulation by that Act, we
have likewise required courts to stay their hand, for
"courts are not primary tribunals to adjudicate such
issues. It :is essential to the administration of the Act
that these determinations be left in the first instance to
the National Labor Relations Board." Building Trades
Council v. Garmon, supra, at 244-245. Nor may courts
intervene in such matters even to apply the National
Labor Relations Act, except by the normal mechanism
of review of actions of the NLRB. For recognizing that
"[a] multiplicity of tribunals and a diversity of procedures are quite as apt to produce incompatible or conflicting adjudications as are different rules of substantive
law," Garner v. Teamsters Union, supra, at 490-491,
Congress confided to the NLRB the primary power of
interpretation and application of the Act. See Guss v.
Utah Labor Relations Board, 353 U. S. 1 (1957).
.The present case, however, implicates none of the
principles discussed above. There is no attempt, in this

BOILERMAKERS v. HARDEMAN
233

241

Opinion of the Court

lawsuit, to apply state law to matters pre-empted by federal authority. Nor is there an attempt to app]y federal
law of general application, which is limited in the particular circumstances by the National Labor Relations
Act: Nor is there an attempt to have the.District Court
enforce the provisions of the National .Labbr. Relations
Act itself, without guidance from the NLRB. As we
have said, the critical question in this action is whether
Hardeman Was afforded the rights guaranteed him by
§ 101 (a).(5)' of the LMRDA. If he was denied them,
Congress has said that he is entitled to damages for the
consequences of that dehial. Since these questions areirrelevant to the legality of conduct under the National
Labor Relations Act, there is no danger of donflicting
interpretation of its provisions. And since the law. applied is federal law explicitly made applicable to such
circumstances by Congress, there is no danger that state
law may come in through the back door to regulate conduct that has beeniremoved by Congress from state con trol. Accordingly, this action was within the competence
of the District Court.
II
Two charges 'were brought against Hardeman in the
union disciplinary proceedings. He was charged withviolation of Art. XIII, § 1, of the Subordinate Lodge
Constitution, which forbids attempting to create dissension or working against the interest and harmony of
the union, and carries a penalty of expulsion.7 . He was
also charged with violation of Art. XII, § I' of the
Subordinate Lodge By-Laws, which forbids the' threat
6 See Boilermakers v. -Braswell, 388 F. 2d, at 195-197. -Accord,
Rekant v. Shochtay-Gasos Local 446, 320 F. 2d 271, 273-275 (CA3
1963); Parks v. Electrical JWorkers, 314 F. 2d 886, 922-923 (CA4
1963); Addison v. Machinists, 300 F. 2d 863 (CA9 1962); Machinists
v. King, 335 F. 2d 340, 346-347 (CA9 1964).
7See n. 3, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

or use of force against any officer of the union in order
to prevent him from properly discharging the duties of
his office; violation may be punished "as warranted by
the offense." 8 Hardeman's conviction on both charges
was upheld in internal union procedures for review.
The trial judge instructed the jury that "whether or
not he [respondent] was rightfully or wrongfully discharged or expelled is a pure question of law for me to
determine." He assumed, but did not decide, that the
transcript of the union disciplinary hearing contained
evidence adecjuate to support conviction of violating
Art. XII. He held, however, that there was no evidence at all in the transcript of the union disciplinary
proceedings to support the charge of violating Art.
XIII. This holding appears to have been based on the
Fifth Circuit's decision in Boilermakers v. Braswell, 388 F.
2d 193 (CA5 1968). There the Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit had reasoned that "penal provisions in
union constitutions must be strictly construed," 9 and
that as so construed Art. XIII was directed only to
"threats to the union as an organization and to the effectiver carrying out of the union's aims," not to merely personal altercations. 388 F. 2d, at 199. Since the unio n
tribunal had returned only a general verdict, and since
one of the charges was thought to be supported by
no evidence whatsoever, the trial judge held that Hardeman had been deprived of the full and fair hearing guaranteed by § 101 (a) (5).11 The Court of Appeals affirmed,
simply citing Braswell. 420 F. 2d 485 (CA5 1969).
We-find nothing in either the language or the legislative history of § 101 (a) (5) that could justify such a sub8 See n. 4, supra.

9388 F. 2d, at 198, quoting Allen v. Theatrical Employees, 338
F. 2d 309, 316 (CA5 1964).
10 This

reasoning was noted but not specifically endorsed in
Brasiell, 388 F. 2d, at 198.

BOILERMAKERS v.-TURDEMAN
233

Opinion of the Court

stitution of judicial for union authority to interpret the
union's regulations in order to determine the scope of
offenses warranting discipline of union. rnembers.: Section 101 (a),(5) began life as a floor amendment to S.
1555, the K'ennedy-Ervin Bill, in, the 86th Congress.
As proposed by Senator McClellan and as Adopted by
the Senate on April 22, 1959, the amendment would
have forbidden discipline of union members • except for
breach of a published written rule of [the union]." . 105
Cong. Rec. 6476, 6492-6493. But this language did
not long survive. Two days later, a substitute amendment was offered by Senator Kuchpl, who explaied
that further study of the McClellan amendment had raised
"some rather vexing questions." -Id., at 6720. The
Kuchel substitute, adopted the following day, deleted the
requirement that chaiges be based upon a previously
published, written union rule; it transformed Senator
McClellan's amendment, in relevant part, into the present language of § 101 (a) (5). Id., at 6720, 6727. As so
amended, S. 1555 passed the Senate on April 25. Id.,-at
6745. Identical language was adopted by the House, id.,
at 15884, 15891, and appears in the statute as finally
enacted.
The Congress understood that Senator Kuchel's amendment was intended to make substantive changes in Senator McClellan's proposal. Senator Keiinedy had specifically objected to the McClellan amendment because
"In the case of . . . the ,. . . official who bribed
a judge, unless there were a specific, prohibition
against bribery of judicial officers written into the
constitution of the union, then no union could take
disciplinary adion against [an] officer or member
guilty of bribery.
"It seems to me that we can trust union officers
to run their affairs better than that." Id., at 6491.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

Senator Kuchel described his substitute as merely providing "the usual reasonable constitutional basis" for
union -disciplinary proceedings: union members were to
have "constitutionally reasonable notice and a reasonable, hearing." Id., at 6720. After the Kuchel amendment passed the Senate, Senator Goldwater explaine4 it
to the House Committee on Labor and Education as
follows:
"[T]he bill of rights in the Senate bill requires that
the union member be served with written specific
charges prior to any disciplinary proceedings but it
does not require that these charges, to be valid, must
be based on activity that the union had proscribed
prior to the union member having engaged in such
activity." Labor-Management Reform Legislation,
Hearings before a Joint Subcommittee of the House
Committee on Education and Labor, 86th Cong., 1st
Sess., pt. 4, p. 1595 (1959).
And Senator McClellan's testimony was to the same
effect. Id., pt. 5, pp. 2235-2236, 2251, 2285.
We think that this is sufficient to indicate that § 101
(a) (5) was not intended to authorize courts to determine
the scope of offenses for which a union may discipline its
members.1 And if a union may discipline its members
for offenses not proscribed by written rules at all, it is
surely a futile exercise for a court to construe the written
11 State law, in many circumstances, may go further. See Summers, The Law of Union Discipline: What the Courts Do in Fact,
70 Yale L. J. 175 (1960). But Congress, which preserved state
law remedies by § 103 of the LMRDA, 29 U. S. C. § 413, was
well aware that even the broad language of Senator McClellan's
original proposal was more limited in scope than much state law.
See 105 Cong. Rec. 6481-6489.

BOILERMAKERS v. HARDEMAN

233

Opinion of the Court

rules in order to determine whether particular conduct
falls within or without their scope.
Of course, § 101 (a) (5) (A) requires that a member
subject to discipline be "served with written specific
charges." These charges must be, in Senator McClellan's
words, "specific enough to inform the accused member of
the offense that he has allegedly committed." 1" Where,
as here, the union's charges make reference to specific
written provisions, § 101 (a) (5) (A) obviously empowers
the federal courts to examine those provisions and determine whether the union member had been misled or
otherwise prejudiced in the presentation of his defense.
But it gives courts no warrant to scrutinize the union
regulations in order to determine whether particular
conduct may be punished at all.
Respondent does not suggest, and we cannot discern,
any possibility of prejudice in the present case. Although
the notice of charges with which he was served does not
appear as such in the record, the transcript of the union
hearing indicates that the notice did not confine itself to
a mere statement or citation of the written regulations
that Hardeman was said to have violated: the notice
appears to have contained a detailed statement of the
facts relating to the fight that formed the basis for the
disciplinary action. 3 Section 101 (a) (5) requires no
more.
There remains only the question whether the evidence
in the union disciplinary proceeding was sufficient to support the finding of guilt. Section 101 (a) (5) (C) of the
12

Labor-Management Reform Legislation, Hearings before a Joint

Subcommittee of the House Committee on Education and Labor,
86th Cong., 1st Sess., pt. 5, p. 2285 (1959).
3See tr. of union disciplinary hearing 26-28, 76.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
OpiniQn of the Court

401 U.S.

LMRDA guarantees union members a "full and fair"
disciplinary hearing, and the patties and the lower federal
coirts are in full agreement that this guarantee requires
the charging party to provide some evidence at the discipliliary hearing to support the charges made. 4 This is
the proper standard of judicial revieW. We have repeatedly held that conviction oii charges unsupported by
any evidence is a denial of due process, Thompson v.
Louisville, 362 U. S. 199, 206 (1960); Schware v. Board
of Bar Examiners, 353. U. S. 232, 246-247 (1957);
Vajtauer v. Commissioner of Immigration, 273 U. S. 103,
106 (1927); Tisi v. Tod,,264 U. S. 131, 133-134 (1924);
and we feel that §101 (a) (5) (C.) may fairly be said to
import a similar requirenient into union disciplinary proceedings. Senator Kuchel, who first introduced the provision, characterized it on the Senate floor as requiring
.the "usual reasonable constitutional basis" for disciplinary
action, 105 Cong. ,fRec. 6720, and any lesser standard would make useless § 101 (a) (5) (A) 's requirement
of written, specific charges. A stricter standard, on the
other hand, would be inconsistent with the apparent congressional intent to allow unions to govern their own
affairs, and would require courts to judge the credibility
of witnesses on the basis of what would be at best a cold
record.5
l'4 Vars v. Boilermakers, 320 F. 2d 576 (CA2 1963); Rosen v.

Painters, 198 F. Supp. 46 (SDNY 1961), appeal dismissed, 326
F. 2d 400 (CA2 1964); Lewis v. American Federation of State
Employees, 407 F. 2d 1185 (CA3 1969); Boilermakers v. BrasweU,
388 F 2d 193 (CA5 1968); Burke v. Boilermakers, 417 F. 2d 1063
(CA9 1969), affirming 302 F. Supp. 1345 (ND Cal. 1967).
IsAlthopgh a transcript was made of the 'union proceedings in
the present -case, we have no reason to believe that this is a universal
practice.

BOLERM
233

R

v. HARDEMAN

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

Applying this standard to the present case, we think
there is no question that the charges were adequately supported. Respondent was charged with having attacked
Wise without warning, and with continuing to beat him
for some time. Wise so testified at the disciplinary hearing, and his testimony was fully corroborated by one other
witness to the altercation. Even Hardeman, although
he claimed he was thereafter held and beaten, admitted
having struck the first blow. On such a record there is
no question but that the charges were supported by "some
evidence."
Reversed.MR. JusTIdfy WHrTE, concurring.

The Court accurately states the holdings in San Diego
Building Trades Council'v. Garmon,359 U. S. 236 (1959),
and like cases. But since the case before us "implicates
none of the principles," ante, at 240, announced in those
cases, neither is their continuing validity in their full
sweep reaffirmed by today's opinion. On this basis, I join
the Court's opinion.
I add an additional note. As the Court says, Hardeman's conviction on both charges against him was upheld. Expulsion was warranted on either count. The
principle of Stromberg v. California,283 U. S: 359 (1931),
has no application in this situation. Turner v. United
States, 396 U. S. 398, 420 (1970); Barenblatt v. United
States, 360 U. S. 109, 115 (1959); Claassen v. United
States, 142 U. S. 140, 146-147 (1891); see also cases
cited in Strdet v. New York, 394 U. S. 576, 613 n. 2 (1969)
(WHiTE, J., dissenting).

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, dissenting.
Section 102 of the Landrum-Griffin Act; 73 Stat. 523,
29 U. S. C. §412, gives a member of a union the right

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
DoUGLAs, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

of civil redress in a federal district court against his union
for infringement of his rights secured by the' Act- at
the same time § 103, 29 U. S. C. § 413,'reserves to members any remedies they may have "under ,any State or
Federal law or before any court or other tribunal, or
under the constitution and bylaws" of. their unions.
Moreover, § 101 (a)(5), 29 U. S. C. § 411 (a)(5),2 provides that, except for nonpayment of dues, no member of
a labor organization may be expelled or disciplined until

there has been notice and a fair hearing'
The latter right is not exclusive, for as noted the Act
gives members remedies for infringement of rights under
the Act or under the constitution- and -bylaws of the

union.
In the present case respondent went to one Wise, in

charge of referral of men to jobs through thefinion hiring
hall, and during the discussion which folloWed there was
an altercation in whieh respondent hit Wise. For that assault respondent was fined in a criminal court. Thereupon Wise filed charges against respondent for violations
1 Section 102 provides:
"Any person whose rights- secured by the provisions of this title
have been infringed by any violation of this title may bring a cvil.
action in a district court of the U?ited States for such relief (including injunctions) as may be appropriate. Any such action against
a labor organization shall be brought in the district court of the
United States ,for the district where the alleged violation occurred,
or where the principal office of such labor organization is located."
(Emphasis added.)
2 Section 101 (a) (5) provides:
"No member of any labor organization may be fined, suspended,
expelled, or otherwise disciplined except for nonpayment -of dues
by such organization or .by any officer thereof unless such member has been (A) served with written specific charges; (B) given
a reasonable time to prepare his defense; (C) afforded a full and
fair hearing."'

BOILERAUERS v. HARDEMAN
233

DOUGLAS, J., dissentihk

of one provision of the union's bylaws 3 and one provisi"on
of the union's constitution.4
At a hearing before a committee of the local lodge
which Hardeman attended it was dctermined that respondent was "guilty as charged." That determination
was approved by the membership of the local which
voted to suspend him from membership, "indefinitely."
Respondent appealed to the International Union, petitioner here. Acting through its president and 'fts inter-.
national executive council it denied the appeal.
Thereafter respondent sued International for consequential and punitive damages. The case was tried by'
3Article XII of the bylaws provides:

"In addition to the-offenses and penalties set out in the applicable
provisions of the International aild Subordinate Lodge Constitution;'
the following offenses and penalties shall be observed in this Subordinate Lddge, and any member who violates same shall, if found
guilty. after proper hearing as provided herein, be punihed as warranted by the offense.
"(1) It shall be a violation of these By-Laws-for any member
through the use of force or violence or the threat of the use bf
force or violence to restrain, coerce or intimidate, or attempt to
restrain, coerce or intimidate any official of this International.
Brotherhood or Subordinate Lodge to prevent or attempt to prevent him from properly discharging the duties of his office."
4Article XIII, § 1, of the constitution provides:
"Any member who endeavors to create dissension among the
members, or who works against the interest aind harmony of the
International Brotherhood or of any District or Subordinate L~odge;
who advocates or encourages a division of the funds, or the dissolution of any District or Subordinate Lodge, or the separation of
any District or Subordinate-Lodge from the International Brotherhood; who supports or becomes a member of any dual or subversive
organization which shall be hostile to the International Brotherhood
or to any of its Subordinate Lodges, or which is antagonistic to the
principles ahd purposes of the International Brotherhood, shall upon
conviction thereof be punished by expulsionfrom the International
Brotherhood."

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
DovGL4s, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

a jury which returned a verdict of $152,150 and the
Court of. Appeals affirmed. 420 F. 2d 485.
There was evidence that there was a grudge between
Wise and respondent, out of which the fist fight occurred.
And there was evidence that the force or violence was
an. attempt to coerce Wise "to prevent him from prop-erly discharging the duties of his office" within a rational
meaning of the bylaws of the union.5 And the District Court so charged the jury. But, as the District
Court ruled, there was no evidence that respondent endeavored "to create dissension among the members" or to
work against the "interest and harmony" of the union
within the meaning of Art. XIII of the constitution.'
I agree that a court does not sit in review of a union
as it does of an administrative agency. But by reason
of § 101 (a) (5) judicial oversight is much more thai
procedural; it provides in subsection (C) for "a full and
fair hearing." Even if every conceivable procedural
guarantee is provided, a hearing is not "fair" when all
substantive rights are stripped away to reach a preordained result. If there is to be a "fair hearing" there
must, I submit, be some evidence directed to the charges
to.support the conclusion.
Membership in a union may be the key to livelihood
itself.' Without membership, the member may be cast
into the outer darkness, so far as employment is concerned. Just as this Court concluded Congress did not
authorize exclusive bargaining agents to make invidious
discriminations, Steele v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co.,
323 U. S. 192, it is unthinkable to me that Congress in
designing § 101 (a) (5) gave unions the authority to expel
5
See n. 3, supra.
6
See n. 4, supra.
7
Hardeman testified at trial that following the loss of his union
card he was unable to work in the boilermaker's trade beyond one

job lasting five days.

BOILERALkERS v. HARDEMAN

DouGLAs,- J., dissenting

233

members for such reasons as they chose. For courts to
lend their hand to such oppressive practices is to put the
judicial imprimatur on the union's utter disregard of
due process to reach its own ends.
In Boilermakers v. Braswell, arising out of the same
incident, the Court of Appeals followed that reasolning.
388 F. 2d 193, 199. It said:
"[T]he act charged to Braswell was a -blow
struck in anger, and nothing more. However reprehensible this act may be, it -did not constitute a
violation of the provisions in the charges. Article
XIII, Section 1" of the constitution on its face is
directed at threats to the union as an organization
and to the effective carrying out of the union's aims.
Braswell's fist was not such a threat."
As stated by a student in this area: "[H]ow can there
be a 'full and fair hearing' when it results in a verdict
which mocks the evidence?" I Of course, the reviewing
court does not give a hearing de novo; nor does it review
the merits oJ the dispute. But it does sit to check intemperate use of union pbwer; and if it is to discharge
its duties, it must conclude that there is some evidence to
sustain the charge: This is the view of the Second, Third,
and Fifth Circuits, Vars v. Boilermakers,.320 F. 2d 576;
Kelsey v. PhiladelphiaLocal No. 8, 419 F. 2a 491; Boiler-'
makers v. Braswell, 388 F. 2d 193, and I would adopt it
as the controlling legal principle.
Violation of Art. XIII of the constitution -carries
with it automatic expulsioin. Violation of the bylawswould carry punishment "as warranted by the offense,"
which, I assume, would justify expulsion. For respondent to use force against Wise who was in charge of
referral of men to jobs through the union hiring hall
Christensen, Union Discipline UnderFederal Law: Institutional
Dilemmas in an Industrial Denio8facy, 43 N. Y. U. L. Rev. 227,251.
B

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
DouGLAS, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

may well have been an attempt "to prevent him from
properly discharging the duties of his office" within the
meaning of Art. XII. But -how an isolated fist fight
could "create dissension" among union members or work
against the union's interests in the other ways described
in Art: XIII remains a mystery.
The finding of the union was the general one "guilty as
charged." Under which provision-constitution or bylaw-it suspended him indefinitely is not made clear.
P6rhaps it was under only one or perhaps under both
provisions.
In that posture the case is in the category of Stromberg v. California, 283 U. S..359, where a conviction
might have been valid under one charge but would have
been invalid under the other; but the verdict being a
general one, it was impossible to tell under which he
was convicted. It is as much a denial of due process to
sustain a conviction. merely because a verdict of guilty
might have been rendered on a valid ground as it is to
send an accused to prison following conviction of a charge
on which he was never tried. Cole v. Arkansas, 333 U. S.
196, 201. It was in that tradition that the District Court
charged the jury:'
"Now, that is all they charged him with were
those two sections and there is nothing in this record that would justify a finding of guilty under
those sections. All of it is about the fight.
9

The Court of Appeals affirmed summarily on the basis of
Boilermakers v. B~aswell, 388 F. 2d 193, a case arising out of
the same factual situation, as Braswell also assaulted Wise at
the time respondent assaulted him. In Braswell, the Court of
Appeals found that the blow was "struck in anger, and nothing
more." Hence it held that Braswell's fist was not used as an effort
to create dissension among members within the meaning of Art.
XIII of the constitution. By its summary affirmance in the prezent
case it presumably reached the same conclusion in the present case.

BOILERMAKERS v. HARDEMAN
233

DoudLAs, J., dissenting

"I am telling you, as a matter of law, that under
the proof, the finding which resulted in his being
expelled, cannot legally stand and therefore he was
wrongfully expelled." (Emphasis Added.)
Since the finding of "gulty as charged" had that infirmity, it could not stand; and the jury was justified in
assessing damages for an unlawful expulsion.1

10 It is urged that since respondent's complaint arose out of his
effort to obtain employment, his relief may be sought only from
the National Labor Relations Board. See San Diego Building
Trades Council v. Garmon, 359 U. S. 236; Local 100, Journeymen v.
Borden, 373 U. S. 690; Local 207 v. Perko, 373 U. S. 701. The argument is that the expulsion of respondent was "arguably" an unfair
labor practice and that exclusive jurisdiction therefore-was with the
Board. But Garmon prevents conflicts between federal and state
policy. If there is a conflict in the present case, it is between two
federal agencies; and Congress has declared in § 102 of the LandrumGriffin Act that the federal courts, not the Board, are to have the
primary role.

