OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

337 U. S.

impact have not been briefed with any elaboration before
this Court. These questions should be considered in the
first instance by the Court of Appeals. Accordingly, in
order to afford such an opportunity, we remand the cause
to the Court of Appeals for proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR.JUSTICE JACKSON reserves opinion as to the suffi-

ciency of the evidence under the Wagner Act in view of
the Court's determination to return the case to the Court
of Appeals.
INTERSTATE OIL PIPE LINE CO. v. STONE,
CHAIRMAN STATE TAX COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF M.ISSISSIPPI.

No. 287.

Argued January 13, 1949.-Decided June 20, 1949.

Appellant owns and operates pipe lines used to transport oil from
lease tanks to railroad loading racks in Mississippi. Delivery of

the oil to appellant by the owner is accompanied by instructions
for shipping it interstate. The oil is pumped from the loading
racks into railroad tank cars; and, if no tank cars are available,
it is stored, but never longer than a week. In the bills of lading,
which covered only the rail shipment, the owner is designated as
shipper and appellant as his agent, and the out-of-State destination
is indicated. Mississippi levied against appellant a tax measured
by appellant's receipts from the transportation of the oil from
the lease tanks to the loading racks. Held: The tax did not violate
the Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 663-665,
668.
203 Miss. 715, 35 So. 2d 73, affirmed.

A state tax levied against a pipe-line company was
sustained by the State Supreme. Court against a claim
of invalidity under the Federal Constitution. 203 Miss.
715, 35 So. 2d 73. On appeal to this Court, affirmed,
p. 668.

INTERSTATE PIPE LINE CO. v. STONE.
662

Opinion of

663

RUTLEDGE, J.

PhelanH. Hunter argued the cause for appellant. With
him on the brief were Villard Martin and Garrett Logan.
J. H. Sumrall argued the cause and filed a brief for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE announced the judgment of the
Court and the following opinion, in whioh MR. JUSTICE
BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

join.
This appeal questions the power of Mississippi, as affected by the commerce clause, to impose a tax measured
by gross receipts from the operation of a pipe line wholly
within the state.
Appellant is a Delaware corporation which has qualified
to do business in Mississippi as a foreign corporation. It
owns and operates pipe lines which are used to transport
oil from lease tanks in various oil fields in Mississippi
to loading racks adjacent to railroads elsewhere in the
state.' From these racks the oil is pumped into railroad
tank cars for shipment outside the state. If there are
no tank cars available the oil is stored in tanks near the
racks. But such delays in loading are usually of short
duration and never exceed a week, according to appellant's uncontradicted statement. When delivered to appellant the oil is accompanied by shipping orders from the
producer or owner directing that the oil be transported
to out-of-state destinations. There are no refineries in
Mississippi. There is no through bill of lading from the
point of origin at the fields to the destination outside the
state. Appellant ships the oil by rail as agent of the
owner on bills of lading showing the owner as shipper,
'Appellant also gathers oil which is transported through the
Mississippi pipe lines directly into interstate trunk lines, through
which the oil is carried outside the state. Mississippi has not attempted to tax the receipts attributable to shipments of this kind.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

RUTLEDGE, J.

337 U. S.

the appellant as agent of the shipper, and indicating- the
destination specified in the shipping orders issued to appellant. Appellant is paid by the producer at the rate
per barrel specified in its tariff 2 for transporting the oil
from the gathering point to the rack, and is paid an additional- charge for loading the oil in the tank cars.
The chairman of the Mississippi State Tax Commission, appellee, levied a tax against appellant for the years
1944, 1945 and the first half of 1946, in the sum of
$20,296.36, measured by appellant's receipts for transporting oil from the lease tanks to the railroad loading
platforms, pursuant to the following sections of the Mississippi Code, Miss. Code, 1942, Ann., tit. 40, c. 3, § 10105,
and § 10109 (1948 Cum. Supp.), which provide:
"10105. ....There is -hereby levied and shall be
collected annual privilege taxes, measured by the
amount or volume of business done, against the persons, on account of the business activities, and in the
amounts to be determined by the application of rates
against values, or gross income, or gross proceeds
of sales, as the case may be, as follows [see sections
following] :"
"10109. . . . Upon every person engaging or continuing withinthis state in the business of operating
a pipe line for transporting for compensation or hire
from one point to another in this state oil or natural
gas or artificial gas through pipes or conduits in this
state, there is likewise hereby levied and shall be
collected a tax, on account of the business engaged
in,; equal to two per cent of the gross income of the
business.
2 All

appellant's transportation of .oil in Mississippi is co.vered by
tariffs which are published and filed with the Interstate Commerce
Commission as required by the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended,
49U. S.C. §§ 1 (1), 1 (3), and 6.

INTERSTATE PIPE LINE CO. v. STONE.
662

Opinion of

RUTLEDGE,

665

J.

"There shall be excepted from the gross income
used in determining the measure of the tax imposed
in this section so much thereof as is derived from the
business conducted in commerce between this state
and other states -of the United States, or between
this state and 'foreign countries which the state of
Mississippi is prohibited from taxing under the constitution of the United States of America. .. "3
The State Tax Commission sustained the assessment,
The trial court-dismissed a declaration seeking review of
the Commission's action. The Supreme Court of Mississippi affirmed that judgment, overruling appellant's
contention that because the tax was levied on the privilege of conducting an interstate business' and measured
by gross receipts therefrom the tax could not be imposed
without offending the commerce clause of the Federal
Constitution. 203 Miss. 715, 35 So. 2d 73.
The state supreme court held that the operation of
these pipe lines between points within the state was intrastate rather than interstate commerce, and that the
tax was therefore "merely on the privilege of operating
a pipe line wholly within this State as a local activity. . . a tax on the privilege of doing an intrastate
business, and- measured by a percent of gross income as
a matter of convenience." 203 Miss. at 732, 35 So. 2d
at 81.
Appellant contends that operation of the pipe lines
between points in Mississippi was in fact interstate commerce, and that the tax was construed by the Supreme
Court of Mississippi to be a tax on the privilege of operOther provisions of the Mississippi Code not here involved impose franchise, net income and ad valorem property taxes, all of
which appellant paid for the years involved. This fact does not
of course preclude Mississippi from exacting a different tax for the
protection upon whith one or more of these taxes is based. E. g.,
Memphis Gas Co. v. Stone, 335 U. S. 80, 85.,
3

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

RUTLEDGE,

J.

337 U. S.

ating the pipe lines. From these premises, together with
the major premise that no state can tax the privilege of
engaging in interstate commerce, appellant concludes that
the tax may not constitutionally be imposed.
We do not pause to consider whether the business of
operating the intrastate pipe lines is interstate commerce,
for, even if we assume that it is, Mississippi has power to
impose the tax involved in this case. Further, we do not
find it necessary to dispute that the Supreme Court of
Mississippi construed the statute as imposing a tax on
the privilege of operating a pipe line wholly within the
state, and not a tax solely upon the "local activities of
'maintaining, keeping in repair, and otherwise in manning
the facilities'" situated in Mississippi, Memphis Gas Co.
v. Stone, 335 U. S. 80, 92-93, or upon the gross receipts
themselves, Central GreyhoundLines v. Mealey, 334 U. S.
653. While we are of course bound by the construction
given a state statute by the highest court of the State,'
we are concerned with the practical operation of challenged state tax statutes, not with their descriptive labels.'
The statute is not invalidated by the commerce clause
of the Federal Constitution merely because, unlike the
statute attacked in Memphis Gas Co. v. Stone, supra, it
imposes a "direct" tax on the "privilege" of engaging
in interstate commerce.6 Any notions to the contrary
should not have survived Maine v. Grand Trunk R. Co.,
142 U. S. 217, which flatly rules the case at bar. That
case sustained a state statute which imposed upon an
interstate railroad corporation "an annual excise tax
4 Minnesota v. Probate Court, 309 U. S. 270, 273; Guaranty Trust

Co. v. Blodgett, 287 U. S. 509,513.
5 InternationalHarvester Co. v. Dept. of Treasury, 322 U. S. 340,
346, 347; Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 312 U. S. 359, 363.
6 See concurring opinion in Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U. S. 249, 259.

INTERSTATE PIPE LINE CO. v. STONE.
662

Opinion of

667

RUTLEDGE, J.

[measured by apportioned gross receipts], for the privilege of exercising its franchises in this State."" The
Grand Trunk decision has been approved by this Court
as recently as the other controlling case of Central
Greyhound Lines v. Mealey, supra at 658, 663, in which
the Court permitted New York to impose a tax on the
gross receipts from the operation of an interstate bus
line, provided that tax was apportioned according to mileage traveled within the state. The Mealey case is not
distinguished by saying that it involved only a tax on
gross receipts and not a tax on interstate commerce itself,
for gross receipts taxes have long been regarded as "direct"
in cases which are supposed to support the proposition
that "direct" taxes on interstate commerce are invalid
under the commerce clause.'
Since all the activities upon which the tax is imposed
are carried on in Mississippi, there is no due process ob7 Nothing in the Grand Trunk opinion suggests the explanation hazarded by Mr. Justice Holmes in Galveston, H. & S. A. 'R. Co. v.
Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 226, that the tax in the Grand Trunk case
was sustained on the ground that it was imposed in lieu of ad valorem
taxes. A copy of thestatute reprinted in the margin of the Reports
discloses that the tax was "in lieu of all taxes upon such railroad,
its property and' stock," except that cities and towns were permitted
to tax not only all buildings owned by the railroad but also railroadowned "lands and fixtures" outside the right of way. 142 U. S.
217-218, n. 1.
8 See the cases discussed in Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250, 255-257; concurring opinion in Freeman v. Hewit,
329 U. S. 249, 264-266. As the cited discussions point out, most of
the cases invalidating "direct" taxes on interstate commerce are
explicable on the ground that the taxes were not fairly apportioned.
But cf. the following cases, which involve apportioned franchise or
privilege taxes measured by a standard other than gross receipts:
Ozark Pipe Line Corp. v. Monier, 266 U. S. 555; Alpha Portland
Cement Co. v. Massachusetts,268 U. S. 203; cf. Anglo-Chilean Nitrate
Sales Corp. v. Alabama, 288 U. S. 218.

,OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BURTON, J., concurring

337 U. S.

jection to the tax.' The tax does not discriminate against
interstate commerce in favor of competing intrastate
commerce of like character. ° The nature of the subject
of taxation makes apportionment unnecessary; there is
no attempt to tax interstate activity carried on outside
Mississippi's borders. No other state can repeat the tax.1'
For these reasons the commerce clause does not invalidate
this tax.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTicE BURTON, concurring.

I join iii the judgment of affirmance announced by
the Court but do not join in thg opini3n rendered in

support of it.
I concur in the judgment solely on the ground that'
the tax imposed by the State of Mississippi was a tax
on the privilege of operating a pipe line for transporting
oil in Mississippi in intrastate commerce and that, as
such, it was a valid tax. The Supreme Court of Mississippi, in the case below, 203 Miss. 715, 35 So. 2d 73,
held that this tax had been authorized by a statute of
that State, Miss. Code Ann. §§ 10105, 10109 (1942), and,
for the reasons stated by that court, I believe that neither
the statute nor the application of the tax in the present
instance violated the Constitution of the United States.
9 Nippert v. Richmond, 327 U. S. 416, 423-424; Wisconsin v. J. C.

Penney Co., 311 U. S. 435, 444-445; separate opinion in International
Harvester Co. v. Dept. of Treasury, 322 U. S. 340, 352-353; concurring opinion in Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U. S. 249, 271; concurring
opinion in Memphis Gas Co. v. Stone, 335 U. S. 80, 96.
10 Best & Co. v. Maxwell, 311 U. S. 454; Hale v. Bimco Trading
Co., 306 U. S. 375; Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434.
U Cf. Gwin, White & Prince v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434, 439-440;
Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307, 311-312; Western Live
Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250, 255-257.

INTERSTATE PIPE LINE CO. v. STONE.
662

669

REED, J., dissenting.

On that basis, there is no issue here as to the validity
of a tax upon the privilege of transporting oil in Mississippi in interstate commerce.
•/

MR. JUSTICE REED, with
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE,
and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

join, dissenting.
Mississippi's effort to collect a privilege tax from this
appellant for "operating a pipe line" is upheld by this
Court through two separately expressed theories. One,
that the activities taxed are wholly intrastate; and the
other, that even though the privilege taxed is for the carrying on of wholly interstate operations, such a privilege
tax is permissible. As' each theory may have effect far
beyond this particular case, we think it advisable to state
the reasons for our disagreement with both.
The tax which Mississippi demanded, and which appellant is now trying to- recover, was computed only upon
appellant's receipts as -a common carrier for transporting
oil from the lease tanks to the railroad loading :platforms
within the state. The Supreme Court of Mississippi upheld this tax on the ground that the •activity producing
the receipts was intra- rather than interstate commerce.
At one point in its opinion, the Supreme Court of Mississippi said that the tax "had been collected for the privilege of operating the pumping machinery and other pipe
line equipment in the transportation of oil in the manner
hereinbefore set forth . . . ." Interstate Oil Pipe Line
Co. v. Stone, 203 Miss. 715, 723, 35 So. 2d 73, 75. See an
opinion of three members of this Court in Memphis
Natural Gas Co. v. Stone, 335 U. S. 80. The section here
in question gives no indication of such a purpose. It
thus differs widely from the statute under consideration
* in the Memphis case with its definition of "doing business." See Stone v. Memphis Natural Gas Co., 201 Miss.
670, 674-675, 29 So. 2d 268, 270. Since this statute did

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

not apply to pipe lines reaching across the state line, we
conclude that the State Supreme Court did not mean by
these words to indicate that the privilege tax of § 10109
for "operating a pipe line" was for the privilege of operating pumping machinery or other equipment as inpidents
apart from the flow of the interstate commerce. Cf. Coverdale v. Pipe Line Co., 303 U. S.604. Such an interpretation would be inconsistent with the nonliability for
the tax of pipe lines, admittedly doing an interstate business. The tax, it said, was "merely on the privilege of
operating a pipe line wholly within this State as a local
activity. . . . a tax on the privilege of doing an intrastate business, and measured by a percent of gross income
as a matter of convenience." 203 Miss. at 732, 35 So.
2d at 81. The opinion emphasizes that in the view of
the state court it is the intrastate character of the transportation that makes it permissible to charge the appellant a tax for the privilege of "engaging . . . in the business of operating a pipe line." Miss. Code, 1942, Ann.
(1948 Cum. Supp.) § 10109.1 It considered taxability of
the transportation in the light of Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.
517, and Champlain Co. v. Brattleboro,260 U. S. 366.
First. From the facts, §§ 10105 and 10109 of the statute, and the opinion of the Supreme Court of Mississippi,
we believe that this statute was determined by the state
to impose a' privilege tax for carrying on the intrastate
business of common carrier of oil in Mississippi and that
1 "Hence, the statute was designed only for the purpose of taxing
the privilege of operating a pipe line for transporting the oil from one
point to'another in the State where it is then delivered to an interstate carrier prior to the beginning of its ultimate passage to a
foreign state in interstate commerce. Most assuredly, no pipe line
company'wouid be deemed justified in installing an oil gathering system to transport oil other than that destined for ultimate interstate
shipment, there being no oil refineries here." 203 Miss. at 729, 35
So. 2d at.77.

INTERSTATE PIPE LINE CO. v. STONE.
662

REED,

671

J., dissenting.

the amount of that privilege tax was to be determined
by a measure-two percent of the gross income-of that
intrastate business. Mississippi's interpretation of the
meaning of its statute is binding on this Court.! A federal
question at once emerges-whether the shipment of the oil
from the gathering point to the railroad loading racks,
both points being in Mississippi, is intra- or interstate
transportation. This we decide for ourselves from the
undisputed facts in this record.3 Our first inquiry then
must be as to whether the transportation of this oil,
wholly within Mississippi from origin to railroad loading
racks, is in interstate or intrastate commerce.'
In the absence of a rule written into the Constitution
or enacted by C6ngress-to determine what transportation
is interstate and what intrastate, the courts have been
required to determine the character of the transportation,
case by case, as it became necessary to reach a judicial
conclusion. It was decided years ago in The Daniel Ball,
10 Wall. 557, as to navigation on a waterway within a
single state, disconnected from any other transportation
system leading to or from other states, that the carriage
of freight destined for or received from places outside the
state of navigation was interstate commerce and made
2

Southern Gas Corp. v. Alabama, 301 U. S. 148, 153; cf. Aero
Transit Co. v. Comm'rs, 332 U. S. 495, 499. Such determination
may..be rejected .only if a palpable evasion for avoiding a contrary
ruling under federal law. Union Pac. R. Co. v. Public Service
Comm'n, 248 U. S. 67; Appleby v. City of New York, 271 U. S. 364,
379; Drivers Union v. Meadowmoor Dairies,*312 U. S. 287, 294.
1Southern Gas Corp. v. Alabama, supra, at 154; Hooven &
Allison Co. v. Evatt, 324 U. S. 652, 658. See Caldarolav. Eckert, 332
U. S. 155, 158; Standard Oil Co. v. Johnson, 316 U. S. 481, 483.
' There is no problem as to any differentiation between "in" commerce or "affecting" commerce. Mississippi has decided that the
statute applies only to transportation "in" intrastate commerce. 203
Miss. at 715, 35 So. 2d 73. Cf. Schechter Corp. v. United States, 295
U. S. 495, 542; McLeod v. Threlkel.d, 319 U. S. 491.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

the boat subject to regulation by Congress.' The wording of a judicial declaration of the precise line that marks
the change from intrastate movement to interstate movement has been difficult. In Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517,
a case that dealt with the taxability by New Hampshire
of logs moved from her forests to a place of shipment in
readiness for out-of-state transportation at the convenience of the owner, this Court held the logs taxable. The
theory was that the first movement was preliminary to
the interstate transportation,' because of the deliberate
5

"So far as she was employed in transporting goods destined 'for
other States, or goods brought from without the limits of Michigan
and destined to places within that State, she was engaged in commerce
between the States, and however limited that commerce may have
been, she was, so far as it went, subject to the legislation of Congress.
She was employed as an instrument of that commerce; for whenever
a commodity has begun to move as an article of trade from one
State to another, commerce in that commodity between the States
has commenced. The fact that several different and independent
agencies are employed in transporting the commodity, some acting
entirely in one State, and some acting through two or more States,
does in no respect affect the character of the transaction." 10 Wall.
at 565.
, "What we have already said, however, in relation to the products
of a State intended for exportation to another State will indicate
the view which seems to us the sound one on that subject, namely,
that such goods do not cease to be part of the general mass of
property in the State, subject, as such, to its jurisdiction, and to taxation in the usual way, until-they have been shipped, or entered with
a common carrier for transportation to another State, or have been
started upon such transportation in a continuous route or jour'
ney. .

.

. But this movement does not begin until the articles have

been shipped or started for transportation from the one State to the
other. The carrying of them in carts or other vehicles, or even
floating them, to the dep6t where the journey is to commence is
no part of that journey. That is all preliminary work, performed
for the purpose of putting the property in a state of preparation and
readiness for transportation. Until actually launched on its way to
another State, or committed to a common carrier' for transportation

INTERSTATE PIPE LINE CO. v. STONE.
662

REED,

673

J., dissenting.

detention to await a suitable time for shipment across a
state line. Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1, 6. But where
there was no intentional delay, only the use of a "harbor
of refuge," the interstate transportation by flotage began
when the logs were put into the water. Champlain Co.
v. Brattleboro, 260 U. S. 366.' Incidental dealings with
the moving commodity do not break the interstate journey.8 Recently we have considered the effect of "split"
means of transportation as to whether the transportation
was interstate. United States v. Capital Transit Co., 325
U. S.357, 363. There a traveler went from the District
to such State, its destination is not fixed and certaifi. It may be sold
or otherwise disposed of within the State, and never put in course
of transportation out of the State. Carrying it from the farm, or
the forest, to the dep6t, is only an interior movement of the property,
•entirely within the State, for the purpose, it is true, but only for
the purpose, of putting it into a course of exportation; it is no part
of the exportation itself. Until shipped or started on its final journey out of the State its exportation is a matter altogether in fieri,
and not at all a fixed and certain thing." 116 U. S. at 527-28.
7 "The interstate
commerce clause of the Constitution does not
give immunity to movable property from local taxation which is not
discriminative, unless it is in actual continuous transit in interstate commerce. When it is shipped by a common carrier from one
State to another, in the course of such an uninterrupted journey it
is clearly immune. The doubt arises when there are interruptions
in the journey and when the property in its transportation is under
the complete control of the owner during the passage. If the interruptions are only to promote the safe or convenient transit, then
the continuity of the interstate trip is not broken."...

In other

to be deter.words, in such cases interstate continuity of transit is'
mined by a consideration of the various factors of the situation.
Chief among these are the intention of the owner, the control he
retains to change destination, the agency by which the transit is
effectedi the actual continuity of the transportat-imn, and the occasion or purpose of the interruption during which the tax is sought to
be levied." 260 U. S. at 376-77.
8
State Tax Conim'n v. Gas Co., 284 U. S.41, 43 (reduction of
pressure and metering gas).

674

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

of Columbia via streetcar or bus to a bus terminal and
from there by a different bus to nearby Virginia. We
held this to be interstate transportation.9
Comment should be made as to several precedents
that might be thought contrary to the rather definite
line marking the beginning of interstate commerce that
appears in the above cases. These are the so-called
casual or incidental movements of transportation wholly
within a single state immediately preceding or following
recognized interstate transportation. They were referred
to in Coe v. Errol, supra, as haulage preliminary to consignment to interstate carriers. This involves the vehicles that carry passengers or freight to or from terminals

in their interstate movement.'0

An interstate' journey

"As previously pointed out, twice a day more than 15,000 government employees traveled between the Virginia agencies and their
homes via one of the four bus systems. Most of them either went
to or from these bus terminals from or to their homes over any of
Transit's then available buses or streetcars. Their travel was at
certain hours each day, at which special rush hour buses and cars
were made available for their carriage. Their interstate journey to
work actually began at the time they boarded a Transit bus or
streetcar near their home, and actually ended when they alighted
from the Virginia-going bus at their place of work. On returning
from work their interstate journey actually began when they boarded
a bus near their work and actually ended when they alighted from
a Transit streetcar or bus near their home. True, their interstate
trip was broken at the District termini of the Virginia buses, when
they stepped from one vehicle to another. But in the commonly
accepted sense of the transportation concept, their entire trip was
interstate. . . . And the fact that, except as to Transit, they paid
a combination of two rates, one for travel wholly-within the District,
and the other for travel between the District and Virginia, and the
journey from their residences to Virginia and back again was taken
in two segments, does not mean that the total interstate trip was not
on a 'through route.' " 325 U. S. at 363.
10 Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Detroit, Grand Haven & Miwaukee R. Co., 167 U. S. 633; Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Knight, 192
U. S. 21; United States v. Yellow Cab Co., 332 U. S. 218.

INTERSTATE PIPE LINE CO. v. STONE.
662

675

REED, J., dissenting.

must have a-beginning and an end. Common sense rejects an extension of the journey to. the traveler's front
door or the producer's farm or factory when no through
order for carriage is in effect. The exact limits of interstate commerce in such fringe situations are uncertain.' 1
We are of the view, however, that the reach of interstate commerce goes to the delivery to Interstate, a common carrier, of the oil by. the producer with his tender
of shipment. That offer, when accepted, by its form is
an order covering the amount of oil, origin and out-ofstate destination, and the route and tariff under which
shipment is made. The commodity has been placed in
the stream of commerce and will cross state lines in the
regular course of business. We have held that shipping
instrudtions, given to a freight conductor on a common
carrier prior to any movement, put a car into interstate
commerce '2when the instructions were for shipment to an
out-of-state destination after a preliminary transit between points in the state of loading. When a shipper
delivers his commodity to a common carrier with instructions for billing by such carrier without purposeful delay
via another or other common carriers to an out- )f-state
destination, we think interstate commerce has begun.
Such an application of the commerce clause to transporta1' United States v. Yellow Cab Co.,. supra, at 232-33; Interstate
Commerce Comm'n v. Parker, 326 U. S. 60, 71, note 6.
.12 Philadelphia & Reading R. Co. v. Hancock, 253 U. S. 284, 285:
"The duties of the deceased never took him out of Pennsylvania;
they 'related, solely to transporting coal from -the mines. When
injured he belonged .to a crew operating a train of loaded cars from
Locust Gap Colliery to Locust Summit Yard, two miles away. The
ultimate destination of some of these cars was outside of Pennsylvania. This appeared from instruction 'cards or memoranda delivered to the conductor by the shipping clerk at the mine. Each of
these referred to a particular car by number and contained certain
code letters indicating that such car with its lnwd would move beyond
the State."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED, J.,

dissenting.

337 U. S.

tion accords with that given to regulation of other phases
of interstate commerce."3 The absence of a through bill
of lading is not significant, It is true that the shipment
might be diverted to an intrastate destination without
crossing a state line but that cannot change the character
of the commerce until such diversion order is given. The
movement in commerce has begun by the order and the
delivery and continues until the commodity is restored
d
to the mass of property within a state by the termination'
of the transportation. See Joy Oil Co. v. State Tax
Commission, 337 U. S. 286.
Second. Mississippi determined that this tax was a
privilege tax for carrying on the intrastate business of
common carrier of oil in Mississippi, measured by a
percentage of the income from that business. The preceding subdivision of this opinion expounds the arguments for our conclusion that all the business of appellant in operating a pipe line for transporting oil committed to move. out-of-state from one point to another
in Mississippi is interstate. transportation. The statute
in question was interpreted by Mississippi as laying a
tax solely upon that business of transporting oil, not upon
the "local activities of 'maintaining, keeping in repair,
and otherwise in manning the facilities'" such as are
discussed in the opinions in the t6ndecisive case of Memphis Gas Co. v. Stone, 335 U. S. 80, at 92-93.
An opinion has been filed in this case, asserting that
the Mississippi tax could be collected from the petitioner
notwithstanding that its entire business is interstate commerce. With that conclusion we disagree.
Since appellant does only an interstate transportation
business, the privilege tax exacted by Mississippi is actually a privilege tax for carrying on the interstate busiDahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282; Lemke v.
Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50; Walling v. Jacksonville Paper Co.,
317 U. S. 564, 567.

INTERSTATE PIPE LINE CO. v. STONE.
662

REED,

677

J., dissenting.

ness of common carrier of oil, measured by a percentage
of the gross income from that business, apportioned
so as to include only income derived from that portion
of the interstate commerce carried on wholly in Mississippi. The ross receipts from interstate commerce
are the costs of carriage from point of origin-the field
tanks-to the point of destination-the out-of-state refinery. As only that portion of the costs covering the
carriage from origin to pipe-line loading racks, both
points in Mississippi, is used to measure the privilege
tax, it is clear that the interstate gross receipts are
apportioned to carriage wholly within the state. Our
issue at this point is whether a privilege tax for carrying
on a wholly interstate transportation business measured
by a fairly apportioned part of gross receipts for carriage
in interstate commerce is constitutionally permissible.
* Phrased in terms of a privilege for carrying on an
interstate business, such a tax historically has been
deemed unconstitutional. The cases abound in statements to the effect that the privilege of carrying on
interstate commerce itself is immune from state taxation.
This is because it is a privilege beyond the power of
a state to grant. ". . . it is a right which every citizen of
the United States [and every corporation] is entitled to
exercise under the Constitution and laws of the United
States; .. . ." Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S.47, 57;
Inteinational Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91. The
cases hold not only that a state may not exact a tax as a'
condition precedent to -the doing of interstate business,
but also that it may not levy privilege, excise or franchise
taxes on a foreign Corporation for the privilege of carrying
on or the actual doing of solely interstate business after
its admission to the state." Ozark Pipe Line Corp. v.
14Since

we perceive no difference for the purposes of this case

between franchise, privilege, and excise taxes, insofar as they are
exacted for the privilege of doing or the doing of interstate business,

678

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

Monier, 266 U. S. 555; Alpha Portland Cement Co. v.
Massachusetts,268 U. S. 203. Cf. Anglo-Chilean Nitrate
Sales Corp. v. Alabama, 288 U. S. 218, in the light of
Southern Gas Corp. v. Alabama, 301 U. S. 148, 153.11
The decisions in these cases were reached in spite of
-the fact that in each of them the tax sought to be levied
was fairly measured according to the connections of the
corporate taxpayer with the state. Thus in Ozark the
tax was measured by a percentage of the capital stock
and surplus of the corporation employed in business in
the state, that p~roportion being deemed employed within
the state "that 4 ts property and assets in this State bears
to all its property and assets wherever located"; in Alpha
by a percentage of the value of the "corporate excess"
employed within the commonwealth (determined as in
Ozark) and a.percentage of "that part of its net income . . . which is derived from business carried on
within the Commonwealth" (also determined as in
Ozark); in Anglo-Chilean by a percentage of capital
employed in the state.
A recent pronouncement of this Court has recognized
this limitation on state power. In Aero Transit Co. v.
Comm'rs, 332 U. S. 495, we upheld a tax on motor carriers
only after stressing the fact that the tax was "affirmatively
laid for the privilege of using the state's highways" and
was not imposed upon "the privilege of doing the interstate business." P. 504. See Memphis Natural Gas Co.
we have treated them as identical as far as their validity under the
commerce clause is concerned. In Ozark and Anglo-Chilean Nitrate
the taxes were called franchise taxes; in Alph.a it was labeled an
excise tax.
15 See the discussion of these cases in the opinion of REED, J., in
Memphis Gas Co. v, Stone, 335 U. S.80. See also New York ex
rel. Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Knight, 192 U. S. 21, 26; State Tax
Comm'n v. Interstate NaturalGas Co., 284 U. S. 41, 43.

INTERSTATE PIPE LINE CO. v. STONE.
662

679

REED, J., dissenting.

v. Stone, 335 U. S. 80, 88, note 10. Where the corporate
taxpayer conducts intrastate as well as interstate business, a franchise privilege or excise tax on the former
is of course permissible." We have frequtntly upheld
such a tax although it -was measured by property or
receipts which were used in or attributable to interstate
business."
The growth of commerce that is carried on in more
than one state has brought responsibilities to states other
than the one in which the commerce may be said to
have originated. Producers, either directly or through
.middlemen and independent dealers, distribute natural
resources, agricultural and manufactured products on a
nation-wide scale. Transportation runs across state lines.
All states are called upon to give governmental services
for this commerce-service that costs and should be paid
for by those who profit from its maintenance. In the
absence of congressional direction as to the taxation of
interstate commerce, this Court has interpreted the commerce clause to permit state nondiscriminatory taxation,
for the use of state facilities, upon the property used
in interstate commerce, upon production for commerce
and upon net proceeds therefrom. Through such taxes,
the states may exact payment for their protection and
encouragement of commerce. Joseph v. Carter & Weekes
Co., 330 U. S. 422, 429, and cases cited. We have upheld.
a tax on gross receipts from interstate transportation
16 Memphis Natural Gas Co. v. Beeler, 315 U. S. 649; Ford Motor

Co. v. Beauchamp, 308 U. S. 331; Atlantic Refining Co. v. Virginia,
302 U. S. 22; Southern Natural Gas Corp. v. Alabama, 301 U. S.
148; Pacific Tel. Co. v.. Tax Comm'n, 297 U. S. 403; see collection
of cases 105 A. L. R. 11, 36-56.
'TInternational Harvester Co. v. Evatt, 329 U. S. 416; Atlantic
Lumber Co. v. Comm'r, 298 U. S. 553; Matson Nay. Co. v. State Bd.
of Equalization, 297_U. S. 441.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

"when apportioned as to the mileage within the State."
Greyhound Lines v. Mealey, 334 U. S. 653, 663.18
Notwithstanding the wide latitude for taxation of
incidents connected with interstate commerce, see Memphis Gas Co. v. Stone, 335 U. S. 80, this Court has never
interpreted the commerce clause to allow a state tax for
the privilege of carrying on interstate commerce or one
upon that commerce itself. Joseph v. Carter & Weekes
Co., 330 U. S. 422. This is not because of the financial
burden. Other taxes may equally burden the commerce.
It is not because in transportation the same result cannot
be obtained by levying a tax for intrastate activities meas,ured by gross receipts appropriately apportioned to the
activities in the state. It is because the commerce clause
of the Constitution does not leave to the states any power
to permit or refuse the carrying on of interstate commerce. It likewise bars a state from taxing the privilege of doing interstate commerce or the doing of interstate commerce, with or without fair apportionment even
if not discriminatory.
Maine. v. Grand Trunk R. Co., commented upon in
note 18, is inapposite to the taxation here attempted by
Mississippi. Interstate did a wholly interstate business.
Grand Trunk, concerning a tax on the privilege of exercis18This decision followed a prolonged controversy over the taxability of the proceeds of interstate commerce. Maine v. Grand
Trunk -B.Co., 142 U, S. 217, has been cited for the same proposition,
see e. g., Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307, 329, although
there is in the report of the case, p. 218, § 2 of the Act there in
question, support for Mr. Justice Holmes' treatment of it in Ga!ve8ton, H. & S. A. R. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S.217, 226, as a tax in
lieu of ad'valorem taxes. See Joseph v. Carter & Weekes Co., 330
U., S.422, at 427, notes 5, 6 and 7, and cases cited. Western Live
Stock v. Bureau, 303 U. S.250, 255.' Powell, More Ado about Gross
Receipts Taxes, 60 Harv. L. Rev. 501, 710, 747, et seq.; Dunham,
Gross Receipts Taxes on Interstate Transactions, 47 Col. L. Rev. 211,
'220 et seq.

INTERSTATE PIPE LINE CO. v. STONE.
662

REED,

681

J., dissenting.

ing a franchise in Maine, can only be reconciled with the
later cases commented upon at note 15 if Grand Trunk did
an intrastatq as well as an interstate business. A state
franchise tax for that is permissible. See notes 16 and 17,
supra. The method of apportionment employed in the
Grand Trunk case has had approval~as recently as the
Greyhound case, 334.U. S. at 663. There was no approval
of Grand Trunk in Greyhound as a precedent for a tax
on the privilege of doing an interstate business. See p.
658.
Control of interstate commerce passed into the hands
of Congress and thus welded the Federation into a Nation.
So long as states are forbidden to impose taxes ,upon
interstate commerce or for the privilege -of carrying it
on, a toll cannot be exacted from interstate commerce
even if a similar tax is -borne by local commerce. So,
interstate commerce is not susceptible to taxation, as
such, and thus has been protected against exactions aimed
at it, no matter how nondiscriminatory. It may be taxed
only under enactments which likewise tax intrastate commerce for like intrastate activities. It gets no advantage
over intrastate commerce from anything furnished by the
state and pays the state nothing for what the state doesn't
possess, that is, the power to allow interstate business
within its borders.
All interstate commerce thus has free access to local
markets, subject ohly to nondiscriminatory taxes such as
the tax on apportioned gross receipts from intrastate
mileage As in Central Greyhound Lines v. Mealey, supra,
or the tax on disconnected local incidents as discussed
in the opinions in Memphis Gas Co. v. Stone, supra, or
in InternationalHarvester Co. v. Evatt, supra, or American Manufacturing Co. v. St. Louis, '250 U. S. 459. So
long as a tax on the privilege of doing interstate business
or a tax on the doing of that business is prohibited, interstate commerce remains free from state exactions levied

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
SyllAbus.

337 U. S.

on that commerce. Yet that commerce must bear, like
intrastate commerce, the cost of those facilities or protections, apart from the interstate commerce itself, which
the state furnishes or alloWs within its borders. Such
has been and is the freedom that the commerce clause
grants to those engaged in commerce between the states.
The judgment should be reversed.

LARSON, WAR ASSETS ADMINISTRATOR AND
SURPLUS PROPERTY ADMINISTRATOR, v.
DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN COMMERCE CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT.

No. 31.

Argued November 12, 1948.-Decided June 27, 1949.

1. Plaintiff, a private corporation, brought suit in a Federal District
Court against the Administrator of the War Assets Administration,
an agency of the United States, in his official capacity. The complaint alleged that the Administration had sold certain surplus
coal to the plaintiff, but had refused to deliver it and had made
a new contract to sell it to others. The prayer was for an injunction prohibiting the Administrator, his agents and all persons acting
under their direction, from selling or delivering the coal to anyone
other than the plaintiff and for a declaration that the sale to the
plaintiff was valid and the sale to the second purchaser invalid.
There was no allegation that the contract of sale was with the
Administiator personally, no allegation of any statutory limitation
on his powers as a sales agent, and no claim that his action constituted an unconstitutional taking of property. Held: The suit
was one against the United States 4nd, in the absence of consent
by the United States, the District Court was without jurisdiction.
Pp. 684-705.
2.' In determining whether a suit nominally against an officer is
against the officer individually or against the sovereign, the crucial
qukestion is whether the relief sought is relief against the sovereign.
Pp. 687-688.

