OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

JOY OIL CO., LTD. v. STATE TAX COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 223.

Argued January 6-7, 1949.-Decided June 13, 1949:

Petitioner, a Canadian corporation, purchased in Michigan 1,500,000
gallons of gasoline, certified that it was purchased for export,
shipped it by rail to Detroit under bills of lading marked "For
Export to Canada," and placed it in storage tanks in Dearborn,
Michigan. Fifteen months later, when only 50,000 gallons had
been exported to Canada, Dearborn assessed an ad valorem property tax on the remaining gasoline. Because of a shortage of
shipping space, it was more than eighteen months after storage
before all of the gasoline had been exported to Canada. Held:
The tax was not in violation of the Export-Import Clause, Art. I,
ยง 10, cl.
2, of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 286-289.
321 Mich. 335, 32 N. W. 2d 472, affirmed.

An ad valOrem tax assessed by a Michigan municipality
upon a Canadian corporation's stores of gasoline was sustained by the State Supreme Court against a claim of
invalidity under the Export-Import Clause of the Federal

Constitution. 321 Mich. 335, 32 N. W. 2d 472. This
Court granted certiorari. 335 U. S.812. Affirmed, p. 289.
Clayton F. Jenning8 argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
Edmund E. Shepherd, Solicitor General of Michigan,
argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief
were Eugene F. Black, Attorney General, Daniel .J..
O'Hara,Assistant Attorney General, DaleH. Fillmoreand

Joel K. Underwood.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
On December 29, 1945, petitioner Joy Oil Company,
Ltd., a,Canadian corporation, purchased 1,500,000 gal-

JOY OIL CO. v. STATE TAX COMM'N.
286

287

Opinion of the Court.

Ions of gasoline from Mid-West Refineries, Inc., of Grand
Rapids, Michigan. The bills of lading issued by the railroad to which the gasoline was delivered were marked
"For Export to Canada," but the gasoline was consigned
to petitioner at Detroit. In order to secure the benefits
of lower export freight rates and exemption from the
federal transportation and manufacturers' excise taxes,
petitioner furnished Mid-West Refineries and the railroad
with prescribed forms certifying that the gasoline was
purchased for export. Rail shipments' were begun in
January and completed in February of 1946. As the
gasoline reached Detroit it was accumulated in storage
tanks leased by petitioner at Dearborn.
On April 1, 1947, the city of Dearborn assessed an
ad valorem prbperty tax on the gasoline, all of which,
except 50,000 gallons, shipped to Canada by truck over
the Ambassador Bridge, had then been in the Dearborn
tanks for fifteen months. Shipment by truck washalted
by a federal regulation prohibiting the 'transportation of
inflammables over any international bridge, and petitioner apparently chose not to ship the gasoline by rail
across the Detroit River. In. July of 1947 petitioner
began, to ship it to Canada by water; the last tanker
load departed on August 22, 1947. Petitioner explains
the delay as due to inability to obtain shipping space
at any earlier date.
Petitioner resisted payment of the tax on the ground
that it infringed Art. I, ยง 10, cl. 2, of the Constitution.
The Tax Commission of Michigan sustained Dearborn's
assessment of the tax, and the Supreme Court of 'Michigan affirmed. 321 Mich. 335, 32 N. W. 2d 472.' We
granted certiorari because the case presented a sufficiently important question in the accommodation of State
and Federal interests under the Constitution. 335 U. S.
812.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337.U. S.

The circumstances which tended, at the time when the
tax was assessed, to establish petitioner's intent to export
the gasoline and the fact that the gasoline was eventually
exported are not enough, by themselves, to confer immunity from local taxation. See, e. g., Cornell v. Coyne,
192 U. S. 418; Empresa Siderurgicav. County of Merced,
337 U. S. 154. Nor is it enough that by the rail shipment
to Detroit one step in the process of exportation had
been taken or that a part of the total bulk had already
departed for its foreign destination. It is of course true
that commodities destined for shipment by water must
be transshipped at the water's edge and so may require
a brief period of storage at that point which will .not
be deemed a delay sufficient to interrupt the continuity
of the export process.

Carson Petroleum Co. v. Vial,

279 U. S. 95; see Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 219 U. S. 498; Texas & N. 0.
R. Co. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111. But here the
period of storage at Dearborn was so long as to preclude
holding that the first step toward exportation would inevitably be followed by others. See, by way'of contrast,
Hughes Bros. Timber Co. v. Minnesota, 272 U. S. 469.
While in storage, the gasoline might have been diverted
to domestic markets without disruption of any existing
arrangement for its transshipment and without even
breach of any contractual commitment to a foreign purchaser. Neither the character of the property nor any
event equivalent to its redelivery to a common carrier
made export certain for all practical purposes. See Richfield Oil Corp. v. State Board, 329 U. S. 69, 82.
The Export-Import Clause was meant to confer immunity from local taxation upon property being exported,
not to relieve property eventually to be exported from
its share of the cost of local services. See Coe v. Errol,

JOY OIL CO. v. STATE TAX COMM'N.
286

VINSON,

289

C. J., dissenting.

116 U. S. 517, 527-28. The fifteen-month delay at Dearborn barred immunity of petitioner's gasoline from the
taxinig power of the municipality.
Affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON, with whom MR. JUSTICE
DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON join, dissenting.

The Court holds that fifteen months' delay in transshipment of the gasoline in question was so long that
continuity of the process of exportation was broken, because during that period it might have been diverted to
domestic markets. I think that this rationale and the
conclusion which follows therefrom mark a substantial
and unwarranted departure from our previous decisions
in this field.
As I understand it, the Court's opinion reflects the view
that a long delay in transshipment makes it uncertain
whether the gasoline will eventually be exported, and
further, that a delay of fifteen months makes it possible
for this Court to say- as a matter of law that the uncertainty is so great that the process of exportation has
ceased, whatever the reason for the delay. But the Court
concedes that petitioner intended to export the gasoline
at the time the tax was imposed, and petitioner's uncontradicted evidence shows that it had that intent throughout the period of delay, which was caused by its inability
to procure water transportation. That intent was manifested in a number of ways. The bills of lading by which
the gasoline moved from Grandville and Alma, Michigan,
to Dearborn, a Great Lakes port, were marked "For Export to Canada"; petitioner certified that the gasoline was
to be exported in order to secure an exemption under the
federal manufacturer's excise tax and to qualify for luwer
freight rates accorded exports; it transported 50,000 gallons of the gasoline by truck over the Ambassador Bridge

OCTOBER TERM, '1948.
VINSON,

C. J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

into Canada until a federal regulation closed the-bridge
to inflammable materials; and finally, petitioner exported
all of the gasoline to Canada when shipping space became available. There is nothing in the record to indicate either that petitioner at any time deviated from that
expressed intent, or that the delay was not due solely to
lack of shipping space.
The Court is in the anomalous position, therefore, of
holding as a matter of law that a fifteen-month delay in
transshipment breaks the "stream of export" because of
the resulting uncertainty that the goods will ultimately
be exported, when all of the evidence is to the effect that
the shipper's intent to export has never wavered; that
exportation was as certain as of the date of the tax as it
had been fifteen months before. The Court has previously considered the question to be quite a different one.
We have held that
"The character of the shipment in such a case depends upon all the evidential circumstances looking
to what the owner has done in the preparation for
the journey and in carrying it out. The mere power
of the owner to divert the shipment already-started
does not take it out of interstate commerce, if the
other facts show that the journey ha already begun
in good faith and temporary interruption-of the passage is reasonable and in furtherance of the intended
transportation, as in the Champlain case.". Hughes
Brothers Timber Co. v. Minnesota, 272 U. S. 469,
475-476 (1926).
This test was quoted with approval by Mr. Chief Justice
Hughes in Minnesota v. Blasius, 290 U. S. 1, 10 (1933),
and he added, "The question is alwiys one of substance,
and in each case it is necessary to consider the particular
occasion or purpose of the interruption during which the
tax is sought to be levied." See also to the same effect,

JOY OIL CO. v. STATE TAX COMM'N.
286

VINSON,

291

C. J., dissenting.

Champlain Realty Co. v. Town of Brattleboro, 260 U. S.
366, 377 (1922); Carson Petroleum Co. v. Vial, 279 U. S.
95, 102 (1929) ; United States v. Erie R. Co., 280 U.S. 98,
102 (1929). The Court now refuses to look at any circumstances except the delay-not even the reason for
the delay.
It is true that petitioner could have moved the gasoline
more quickly had it used the more expensive all-rail service. But in almost every case of delay a quicker method
of moving the goods might have been devised. No doubt
the logs held up by low water in Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517
(1886), could have been drawn overland by mules or oxen.
And it would have been possible, though not practical,
for oil to have been transferred directly from tank cars to
waiting ships in Carson Petroleum Co. v. Vial, supra, yet
this Court found that the delay necessarily attendant upon
the accumulation of oil in tanks at the waterfront to await
the arrival of ships did not constitute interruption of the
process of exportation. The delay was "reasonable and
in furtherance of the intended transportation."
Concededly, the gasoline here involved was in the process of exportation when taxed unless the delay was alone
enough to break the stream of export. It had been
started on its journey with every indication that it was
to be transshipped for export. If actual exportation had
followed its arrival in Dearborn by a few days or weeks,
there is no question that it would have been a commodity in the process of exportation and thus exempt
from tax. In this situation, the Court has always, until
today, applied "a liberal construction of what is continuity of the journey, in cases where the Court finds from
the circumstances that export trade has been actually
intended and carried through." CarsonPetroleum Co. v.
Vial, supra at pp. 105-106. But the Court now treats as
immaterial the fact that the process of.exportation had

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.

VxmsoN, C. J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

started, which has always been considered the decisive
factor, Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S. 418 (1904), Empresa
Siderurgica v. County of Merced, 337 U. S. 154 (1949),
and assumes that a delay of fifteen months conclusively
demonstrates that certainty of exportation had been undermined. It is almost always possible in cases of this
kind that the owner of the goods may change his mind
before exportation is, actually carried out, as Mr. Justice
Holmes pointed out in Spalding. & Bros. v. Edwards,
262 U. S. 66, 70 (1923). Delay undoubtedly increases
the possibility, but it does not work such a change as a
matter of law. The question, instead, is that previously
pointed out, namely, whether "the journey has already
begun in good faith and [whether] temporary interruption of the passage is reasonable and in furtherance of
the intended transportation." Hughes Brothers Timber
Co. v. Minnesota, supra, at 476.
The result is that the Court, without consideration of
the fact that the gasoline had been started on its journey
with the intent that it be transshipped for immediate
export to Canada, holds that fifteen months' unavoidable delay is so productive of uncertainty that the process
of exportation ceases as a matter of law. It might be
pointed out that in the leading case of Coe v. Errol,
supra, logs being floated down a river were held up by
low water for about a year, but this Court did not consider that delay enough to break the continuity of the
interstate journey. The line now seems to be drawn
somewhere between twelve and fifteen months, whatever the othe circumstances. Such an arbitrary demarcation is hardly consonant with "the liberal protection
that hitherto [exports] have received." "Spalding& Bros.
V. Edwards, supra, at p. 70. I would adhere to the test
set
out in our previous decisions: whether the delay was
reasonable
under all the circumstances and in furtherance
of the intended transportation.

