562

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

337. U. S.

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. GLANDER, TAX
COMMISSIONER OF OHIO.
NO. 447.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

Argued March 29, 1940.-Decided June 20, 1949..
Certain foreign corporations which had been authorized todo business
in Ohio and which operated manufacturing plants there had their
principal places of business in other states, where all orders were
accepted, credits extended, books kept and where all accounts
receivable were payable. The corporations had paid all franchise
taxes and all taxes on real and personal property located within
Ohio. In addition, the State levied an ad valorem tax on their
accounts receivable derived from sales of goods manufactured
within the State. The accounts receivable were not used in the
conduct of the business of the corporations in Ohio, but in their
general business. Accounts receivable of identical nature which
were owned by residents and domestic corporations were exempt
from the tax. Held:
1. The tax denied the foreign corporations the equal protection
of the laws, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Federal Constitution. Pp. 563-574.
(a) After a state has chosen to admit foreign corporations
to do business within it, they are entitled to equal protection with
domestic corporations, at least to the extent that their property
is entitled to an equally favorable ad valorem tax basis. Pp.
571-572.
(b) The inequality to which the foreign corporations are subjected is not based on Ohio's' relation to the decisive transaction,
but solely on difference in residence of the owner of the accounts
receivable. P. 572.
2. The tax was not saved from constitutional invalidity by the
"reciprocity" provisions of the statute imposing it, since the plan
of reciprocity is not one which by credits or otherwise protects
the nonresident or foreign corporation against the discriminations
apparent in the Ohio statute. Pp. 572-574..
150 Ohio St. 229, 80 N. E. 2d 863, reversed.
*Together with No. 448, National Distillers Products Corp. v.
Glander, Tax Commissioner of Ohio, on appeal from the same Court,
argued March 30, 1949.

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. GLANDER.
562

563

Opinion of the Court.

An Ohio ad valorem tax on foreign corporations, challenged as violating the Federal Constitution, was sustained by the State Supreme Court. 150 Ohio St. 229,
80 N. E. 2d 863. On appeals to this Court, reversed,
p. 574.
John M. Caren argued the cause for appellant in No.
447. With him on the brief were Carlton S. Dargusch,
Wright Hugus and J. E. Bruce.
Charles H. Tuttle argued the cause for appellant in
No. 448. With him on the brief were Isadore Topper,
R. Brooke Alloway and Paul L. Peyton.
W. H. Annat, Assistant Attorney General of Ohio, argued the cause for appellee. With him on the briefs was
Herbert S. Duffy, Attorney General.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The State of Ohio has laid an ad valorem tax against
certain intangible property, consisting of notes, accounts
receivable and prepaid insurance, owned by foreign corporations. As applied to appellants in these two cases,
the tax is challenged as violating the Federal Constitution
on Several grounds which may conveniently be considered
in a single opinion. Facts are not in dispute.
Appellant Wheeling Steel Corporation is organized
under the laws of Delaware, where it maintains a statutory office. Ohio has authorized it to do business in that
State and four of its eight manufacturing plants are
located there. General offices, from which its entire business is controlled and conducted, are in Wheeling, West
Virginia. Its officers there have custody of its money,
notes and books of account. In twelve other states, including Ohio, it maintains sales offices which solicit and
receive orders for its products Subject to acceptance or
rejection. at the Wheeling office, to which all are for-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

warded. From this office only may credit be extended
to purchasers. Accounts are billed and collected from the
Wheeling office and the sales offices have no powers or
duties with respect to collection. All accounts or notes
receivable are payable at Wheeling, where the written
evidences thereof are kept. Proceeds from receivables
are taken into appellant's treasury at Wheeling and there
applied to general purposes of the business.
Appellant National Distillers Products Corporation is
organized under the laws of Virginia, where it has a statutory office and holds annual stockholders meetings. It
is admitted to do business in Ohio, where it maintains
a distillery, or rectifying plant, and warehouse, as it does
also in six other states. Pay roll checks for plant employees are drawn on funds deposited in barkks in the
locality of the plant. Appellant also is licensed to do
business in New York, where it maintains its principal
business office and conducts its fiscal affairs and from
which all business activities are directed and controlled.
The corporation maintains regional sales offices in various of those states which permit private distribution of
liquor. In such states customers are solicited and orders
taken, subject to acceptance or rejection at New York.
It maintains no sales office in Ohio, where dispensing
liquor is a state monopoly. Orders from Ohio state
authorities are forwarded directly to the offices in New
York and are subject to acceptance or rejection there.
When the New York office accepts an order from any
source, it sends shipping orders to various plants, none
of which makes any shipments except upon such orders.
Only in New York can any credits be approved and all
books, records and evidences of accounts receivable are
kept there. Collections are managed from New York,
which is the place of payment of all receivables. During
the tax year in question, the corporation solicited and
took orders through agents in states other than Ohio

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. GLANDER.
562

565

Opinion of the Court.

for a large quantity of liquor shipped from its plants
and warehouses in Ohio to customers elsewhere.
It is stipulated that appellants each paid all franchise
or other taxes required by Ohio for admission to do business in the State and paid all taxes assessed upon real
and personal property located in said State.
The Wheeling Company also paid to the State of West
Virginia, for the yearin question, ad valorem taxes on all
of its receivables, including those sought to be taxed by
*Ohio, pursuant. to this Court's decision in Wheeling Steel
Corp. v. Fox, 298 U. S. 193. Neither Virginia nor New
York has sought to tax the accounts receivable of National
Distillers involved herein.
The Ohio Tax -Commissioner, applying §§ 5328-1 and
5328-2 of the General Code of Ohio,' assessed for taxa1 Pertinent

parts of the Ohio law read as follows:

5328-1.... Property of the kinds and classes mentioned
in section 5328-2 of the General Code, used in and arising out of
business transacted in this state by, for or on behalf of a non-resident
person . .. shall be subject to taxation; and -all such property .of
persons residing in this state used in and arising out of business
transacted outside of this state by, for or on behalf of such persons . . .shall not be subject to taxation.
"SEC.

"SEc. 5328-2.. . . Property of the kinds and classes herein mentioned, when used in business, shall be considered to arise out of
business transacted in a state other than that in which the owner
thereof resides in the cases and under the circumstances following:
"In the case of accounts receivable, when resulting from the sale
of property sold by an agent 'having an office in such other state
or from a stock of goods maintained therein, or from services performed by an officer, agent or employe connected with, sent from,
or reporting to any officer or at any office located in such other
state.
"The provisions of this section shall be reciprocally applied, to
the end that all property of the kinds and classes mentioned in
this section having a business situs in this state shall be taxed herein

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

tion in Ohio a large amount of notes and accounts receivable which each appellant derived from shipments originating at Ohio manufacturing plants. The specific
ground stated for assessment was that such receivables
"result from the sale of property from a stock of goods
maintained within this state."
The Board of Tax Appeals affirmed both assessments

and in the Distiller's case set forth the above-mentioned
statutes and pointed out wherein its own views and practices as to their application to accounts receivable had
been modified by decisions of the Ohio Supreme Court,
whose interpretations, for our purposes, become a part of
the statutes. The Board said:
and no property of such kinds and classes belonging to a person
residing in this state and having a business "situs outside of this
state shall be taxed. It is hereby declared that the assignment of
a business situs outside of this state to property of a person residing
in this state in any case. and under any circumstances mentioned
in this section is inseparable from the assignment of such situs in
this state to property of a person residing outside of this state in
a like case and under similar circumstances ......
"SEC. 5325-1 ....
Moneys, deposits, investments, accounts receivable and prepaid items, and other taxable intangibles shall be considered to be 'used' when they or the avails thereof are being applied, or are intended to be applied in the conduct of the business,
whether in this state or elsewhere. ...
"SEc. 5638 ....
Annual taxes are hereby levied on the kinds and
classes of intangible property, hereinafter enumerated, on the classified
tax list in the offices of the county auditors and duplicates thereof in
,the offices of the county treasurers at the following rates, to wit:
... moneys, credits and all other taxable intangibles so listed,
three mills on the dollar ..... "
"SEC. 5327. . . . The term 'credits' as so used, means the excess of
the sum of all current accounts receivable and prepaid items [used]
in business when added together estimating every such account and
item at its true value in money, over and above the sum of current accounts payable 'of the business other than taxes and assessments. . . ." Ohio Gen. Code Ann. (1945).

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. GLANDER.
562

567

Opinion of the Court.

... On a consideration of the statutory provisions above noted, the Board of Tax Appeals was
of the view that before a business situs of accounts
receivable and .other intangible property, for purposes of taxation, could be given to a state other
than the state of the domicile of the taxpayer, it
must appear that such receivables or other intangible property not only arose in the conduct of the
business of the taxpayer in such other state, but
were therein so used as to become an integral part
of the business carried on in such other state; and
that it was not sufficient that such accounts receivable and other intangible property be used in business generally by the taxpayer. And on this view
the Board held that the accounts receivable there
in question, although they arose in the conduct of
taxpayer's business in the States of Indiana and
Michigan, did not have a business situs in such states,
and that such accounts receivable were taxable in
Ohio.
."On the appeal of the decision of the Board of
Tax Appeals in The Ransom & Randolph Co. case
to the Supreme Court of Ohio, that Court reversed
the decision of the Board of Tax Appeals upon the
point above indicated. 142 0. S. 398, 404. That
Court, upon consideration of the applicable provisions of section 5328-2 and related sections of the
General Code above noted, held that the accounts
receivable of a taxpayer which arose in the conduct
of its business in a state or states other than the
state in which it had its domicile or place of residence, had a business situs in such other state or
states if such accounts receivable or the avails thereof
are being applied or are intended to be applied in
the conduct of the taxpayer's business, whether in
this State or elsewhere. This view of the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

Court as to the construction to be placed upon the
statutory provisions here in question was later followed by that Court in its decisions in the cases
of The Hav.erfield Company v. Evatt, Tax Commr.,
143 0. S. 58, and National Cash Register Company
v. Evatt, Tax Commr., 145 O. S. 597.
In this situation, and applying the statutory
provisions here in question as the same have been
construed by the Supreme Court of this State, it
follows that since the accounts receivable of the
appellant corporation -involved in this case aroseas this Board hereby find-, in the conduct of its
business in the State of Ohio by the sale of its products from a stock of goods located in this State,
and since, further, such accounts receivable or the
avails thereof were used or were intended to be used
by the appellant in its business, whether in this
State or elsewhere, iuch accounts receivable have a
business and taxable situs in the State of Ohio, as
found and determined by the tax commissioner.
"With respect to a question such as that here
presented, to wit, that as to the. taxation of the
accounts receivable of a foreign corporation arising
in the conduct of its business in this State, the application of the above noted provisions of sections
5328-1, 5328-2 and other related sections of the
General Code, as the same have been construed by
the Supreme Court, presents, to our mind, a serious
question as to the constitutionality of said statutory
provisions as so construed under the Due Process
- of Law clause of the Federal Constitution ....
"
2
The Ohio Supreme Court affirmed in both cases, which
were brought here by appeals.3
2 150

Ohio St. 229, 80 N. E. 2d 863.
28 U. S. C. § 1257 (2).

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. GLANDER. 569
5G2

Opinion of the Court.

Appellants urge that the question which the Board
of Tax Appeals regarded as serious should be resolved.
against the State on the grouid that these intangibles
had no situs in Ohio to sustain its power under the Due
Process Clause so to tax them and also that to do so
imposes an undue burden on interstate commerce in
violation of the Commerce Clause. They point out that
the credits sought to be taxed here were not created in
Ohio, not payable there, and neither the payor nor payee,
debtor nor creditor, was resident there. Moreover, the
receivables arose from a contract for sale of goods, but
the contracts were not made in Ohio nor performed in
Ohio, and neither buyer nor seller resided there. On the
assumption that Ohio could not follow tangible goods
into a foreign state and tax them, either in the hands
of the vendor before delivery or in the hands of a vendee
after delivery, it is argued that she has no greater power
to tax intangibles substituted in a foreign state for them
and has no right to tax intangible proceeds of the sale
of tangible goods that had passed beyond her taxing
power.
In their original application of the statutory scheme
the taxing authorities sought to overcome this hurdle by
.requiring an-additional and more substantial connection
between the taxed intangibles and the state taxing power.
For purpose of an Ohio tax the Board of Tax .Appeals
held intangibles to have a situs in that State only when
and to the extent "so used as to become an integral
part of the business carried on" in Ohio. It was this requirement which the Supreme Court of the State eliminated by Ransom & Randolph Co. v. Evatt, 142 Ohio St.
398, 52 N. E. 2d 738, when it held that any use of the
intangibles in the general business was sufficient to make
them taxable. Thus was cut the connection which the
Board of Tax Appeals originally invoked to confer jurisI

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

diction to tax, and thus was raised the question of constitutionality regarded by the Board as serious.
However, we find it inappropriate to decide the Due
Process question. The state action, which is reviewable
under the Fourteenth Amendment, is the composite result of both legislation and its judicial interpretation.
Ohio does not attempt and has not asserted power to tax
all such intangibles, but only those owned by nonresidents and foreign corporations. It has given no indication that it intends to or would reach out to tax such
intangibles as we have here unless it may at the same
time exempt identical ones owned by its residents and
domestic corporations. The contrary is indicated by
§ 5328-2, which makes the two inseparable: We deal
with the taxing plan as an entirety as we find it in
operation and. pass only on the constitutionality of that
which the State has asserted power and purpose to do.
The state action and policy resulting from statute and
decisions is certified to us by the appellee, the Tax Commissioner of Ohio, to be as follows:
since the decision of the Supreme Court of
Ohio in Ransom & Randolph v. Evatt, 142 Ohio
State 398 (January 12, 1944), and in obedience
thereto, it has been the policy and practice of the
Department of Taxation of Ohio to construe and
apply sections 5328-1 and 5328-2 of the General
Code of Ohio
"(A) so as to exempt from taxation in Ohio
accounts receivable of Ohio residents, including
domestic corporations, which arise
"(1) from a sale of goods by an agent having an office in another state, even though
such goods be shipped from Ohio, or
"(2) from a sale of goods shipped from another state, even though such goods be sold
by an agent having an office in Ohio:

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. GLANDER.
562

571

Opinion of the Court.

"(B) so as to tax in Ohio accounts receivable of
non-residents of Ohio, including foreign corporations, which arise either
"(1). from a sale of goods shipped from
Ohio, even though such goods be sold by an
agent having an office in another state, or
"(2) from a sale of goods by an agent having an office in Ohio, even though such goods
be shipped from another state:
"That the foregoing have been in effect as the only
tests of taxability of accounts receivable in Ohio since
the decision of the Supreme Court of Ohio in the
case of Ransom & Randolph v. Evatt, 142 Ohio
State 398, and that said tests have been appliedwithout deviation both-by affiant and by his predecessor in office, William S. Evatt, as the result of the
holding in that case."
Under long-settled principles of Our Federation, Ohio
was not required to admit these foreign corporations to
carry on intrastate business within its borders. The State
may arbitrarily exclude them or may license them upon
any terms it sees fit, apart from exacting surrender of
rights derived from the Constitution of the United States.
Hanover Insurance Co. v. Harding, 272 U. S. 494, 507;
Connecticut General Co. v. Johnson, 303 U.:S. 77, 79-80.
Ohio elected, however, to admit these corporations to
transact businesses and operate manufacturing plants in
the State.- For that privilege they have paid all that the
State required by way of franchise or-privilege tax, which
includes in its measure the value of all property owned
and business done in Ohio. §§ 5495, 5497, 5498 and
5499 of the Ohio General Code. See InternationalHarvester Co. y. Evatt, 329 U. S. 416. After a state has.
chosen to domesticate foreign corporations, the adopted
corporations are entitled to equal protection with the
state's own corporate progeny, at least to the extent that

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

their property is entitled to an equally favorable ad
valorem tax basis. Hanover Insurance Co. v. Harding,
272 U. S. 494, 510-511; Power Co. v. Saunders, 274 U. S.
490, 493, 497. Ohio holds this tax on intangibles to be
an ad valorem property tax, Bennett v. Evatt, 145 Ohio
St. 587, 62 N. E. 2d 345, and in no sense a franchise, privilege, occupatlon or income tax.
The Ohio statutory scheme assimilates its own corporate creations to natural residents and all others to
nonresidents. While this classification is a permissible
basis for some different rights and liabilities, we have
held, as to taxation of intangibles, that the federal right
of a nonresident "is the right to equal treatment." Hillsborough v. Cromwell, 326 U. S. 620, 623.
The certificate of the Tax Commissioner discloses how
fundamentally discriminatory is the application of this
ad valorem tax to intangibles when owned by a resident
or a domestic corporation as contrasted with its application when those are owned by a domesticated corporation or a nonresident. If on the taxing date one of
these petitioners and an Ohio competitor each owns an
account receivable of the same amount from the same
out-of-state customer for the same kind of commodity,
both shipped from a manufacturing plant in Ohio and
both sold out of Ohio by an agent having an office out
of the State, appellant's account receivable would be
subject to Ohio's ad valorem tax and the one held by
the competing domestic corporation would not. It seems
obvious that appellants are not accorded equal treatment,
and the inequality is not because of the slightest difference in Ohio's relation to the decisive transaction, but
solely because of the different residence of the owner.
The State does not seriously deny this unequal application of its own tax but claims that reciprocity provisions
of the statute reestablish equality. Those provisions
therefore require scrutiny.

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. GLANDER.
562

573

Opinion of the Court.

This entire taxing plan rests on a statutory formula
for fixing situs of intangible property both within and
without the State. This is provided by § 5328-2 of the
Code. These intangibles "shall be considered to arise out
of business transacted in a state other than that in which
the owner thereof resides" under certain circumstances.
(Emphasis supplied.) This basic rule separates the situs
of intangibles from the residence of their owner whereas
it has traditionally been at such residence, though with
some exceptions. The effect is that intangibles of nonresident owners are assigned a situs within the taxing
reach of Ohio while those of its residents are assigned a
situs without. The plan may be said to be logically consistent in that, while it draws all such intangibles of nonresidents within the taxing power of Ohio, it by the same
formula excludes those of residents. The exempted intangibles of residents are offered up to the taxing power of
other states which may embrace this doctrine of a tax situs
separate from residence. This is what is meant here by
reciprocity, and the two provisions are declared inseparable; so that if the formula by which Ohio takes unto
itself the accounts of nonresidents is held invalid, "such
decision shall be deemed also to affect such provision as
applied to property of a resident."
It is hard to see that this offer of reciprocity restores
toappellants any of the equality which the application
of the Ohio tax, considered alone, so obviously denies.
There is no indication of a readiness by other states to
copy Ohio's situs scheme so as to tax that which Ohio
exempts. The proffered. exchange of residents for intangible tax purposes may not commend itself as an even
bargain between states. Ohio, being large, populous and
highly industrialized, with heavy and basic industries,
may well have much more to gain from a plan the effect
of which is to tax credit exports to other states, than
most states would have from a privilege to tax its own

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

JACKSON,

J.

337 U. S.

exports into Ohio. In the several years that the Ohio
statute has been on the books, no other state has sought
to take advantage of the "reciprocity" proffer. And if it
did, the equality of rates which would also be necessary to equalize the burden-between nonresidents and
their resident competitors could be hardly expected nor
is it provided for. Far from acceding to the situs doctrine
which allocates these receivables to Ohio, the State of
West Virginia stands on the very different situs doctrine
approved by this Court in Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Fox,
298 U. S. 193, and under its authority has for the year
in question taxed all of the receivables of the Wheeling
Company, including those Ohio seeks to claim as having
situs in Ohin. It is clear that this plan of "reciprocity'
is not one which by credits or otherwise protects the
nonresident or foreign. corporation against the discriminations apparent in the Ohio statute. We think these
discriminations deny appellants equal protection of Ohio
law.
The judgments are reversed and the causes remanded
for proceedings not inconsistent herewith.
Reversed.
By MR. JUSTICE JACKSON.
The writer of the Court's opinion deems it necessary
to complete the record by pointing out why, in writing
by assignment for the Court, he assumed without discussion that the protections of the Fourteenth Amendment are available to 'a corporation. It was not questioned by the State in this case, nor was it considered
by the courts below. It has consistently been held by
this Court that the Fourteenth Amendment assures corporations equal protection of the laws, at least since
1886, Santa Clara County v. Southern Pacific R. Co., 118
U. S. 394, 396, and that it entitles them to due process
of law, at least since 1889, Minneapolis & St. L. R. Co. v.
Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26, 28.

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. GLANDER.
562

Opinion of

JACKSON,

575

J.

It is true that this proposition was once challenged by
one Justice. Connecticut General Co. v. Johnson, 303
U. S.77, 83 (dissenting opinion). But the challenge did
not commend itself, even to such consistent liberals as
Mr. Justice Brandeis and Mr. Justice Stone, and I had
supposed it was no longer pressed. See the same Justice's
separate opinion in InternationalShoe Co. v. Washington,
326 U. S.310, 322, making no mention of this issue.
Without pretending to a complete analysis, I find that
:in at least two cases during this current term the same
question was appropriate for consideration, as here. In
Railway Express Agency v. New York, 336 U. S. 106, a
corporation claimed to be deprived of both due process
and equal protection of the law, and in Ott v. Mississippi
Barge Line, 336 U. S. 169, a corporation claimed to be
denied due process of law. At prior terms, in many
cases the question was also inherent, for corporations
made similar claims under the Fourteenth Amendment.
See, e. g., Illinois Central R. Co. v. Minnesota, 309 U. S.
157; Lincoln Life Insurance Co. v. Read, 325 U. S. 673;
Queenside Hills Co. v. Saxl, 328 U. S. 80. Although
the author of the present dissent was the writer of each
of the cited Court's opinions, it was not intimated therein
that there was even doubt whether the corporations had
standing to raise the questions or were entitled to protection of the Amendment. Instead, in each case the
author, as I have done in this case, proceeded to discuss
and dispose of the corporation's contentions on their
merits, a quite improper procedure, I should think, if
the corporation had no standing to raise the constitutional questions. Indeed, if the corporation had no such
right, it is difficult to see how this Court would have
jurisdiction to consider the case at all.
It may be said that in the foregoing cases other grounds
might have been found upon which to defeat the corporations' claims, while in the present case apparently
there is none.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

However, in at least two cases this Court, joined by
both Justices now asserting that corporations have no
rights under the Fourteenth Amendment, recently has
granted relief to corporations by striking down state
action as conflicting with corporate rights under that
Amendment. In Times-Mirror.Co. v. Superior Court,
companion case to Bridges v. California, 314 U. S. 252,
a newspaper corporation persuaded this Court that a $500
fine assessed against it violated its rights under the Fourteenth Amendment. In Pennekamp v. Florida,328 U. S..
331, a newspaper corporation was convicted along with
an individual defendant, and this Court set aside the
conviction upon the ground that the Fourteenth Amendment prohibited such state action. In neither of these
cases was the corporation's right to raise the issue questioned and the result in each case was irreconcilable with
the position now asserted in dissent.
It cannot be suggested that in cases where the author
is the mere instrument of the Court he must forego
expression of his own convictions. Mr. Justice Cardozo
taught us how Justices may write for the Court and
still reserve their own positions, though overruled. Helvering v. Davis, 301 U. S. 619, 639.
In view of this record I did not, and still do not, consider it necessary for the Court opinion to review the
considerations which justify the assumption that these
corporations have standing to raise the issues decided.
. MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,. with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK

concurs, dissenting.
It has been implicit in all of our decisions since i8,86
that a corporation is a "person" within the meaning of
the 'Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteentb Amendment. Santa Clara County v. Southern Pac. R. Co., 118
U. S. 394, 396, so held. The Court was cryptic in its
decision. It was so sure of its ground that it wrote no

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. GLANDER. 577
562

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

opinion on the point, Chief Justice Waite announcing
from the bench:
"The court does not wish to hear argument on the
question whether the provision in the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution, which forbids a
State to deny to any person within its jurisdiction
the 6qual protection of the laws, applies to these
corporations. We are all of opinion that it does."
There was no history, logic, or reason given to support
that view. Nor was the result so obvious that expositioni was unnecessary.
The Fourteenth Amendment became a part of the
Constitution in 1868. In 1871 a corporation claimed that
Louisiana had imposed on it a tax that violated the Equal
Protection Clause of the new Amendment. Mr. Justice
Woods (then Circuit Judge) held that "person" as there
used did not include a corporation and added, "This construction of the section is strengthened by the history of
the submission by congress, and t]he adoption by the
states of the 14th amendment, so fresh in all minds as
to need no rehearsal." Insurance Co. v. New Orleans,
1 Woods 85, 88.
What was obvious to Mr. Justice Woods in 1871 was
still :plain to the Court in 1873. Mr. Justice Miller in
the Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 71, adverted
to events "almost too recent to be called history" to
show that the purpose of the Amendment was to protect
human rights-primarily the rights of a race which had
just won its freedom. And as respects the Equal Protection Clause he stated, "The existence of laws in the
States where the newly emancipated negroes resided,
which discriminated with gross injustice and hardship
against them as a class, was the evil to be remedied by
this clause, and by it such laws are forbidden." P. 81.
Moreover what was clear to these earlier judges was
apparently plain, to the people who voted to make the

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

Fourteenth Amendment a part of our Constitution. For
as MR. JUSTICE BLACK pointed out in his dissent in Connecticut General Co. v. Johnson, 303 U. S. 77, 87, the
submission of the Amendment to the people was on the
basis that it protected human beings. There was no:
suggestion in its submission that it was designed to put
negroes and corporations into one class and so dilute
the. police power of the States over corporate affairs.
Arthur Twining Hadley once wrote that "The Fourteenth
Amendment was, framed to protect the negroes from
oppression by the whites, not to protect corporations from
oppression by the legislature. It is doubtful whether a
single 'one of the members of Congress who voted for
it had any idea that it would touch the question of corporate regulation at all."'
Both Mr. Justice Woods in Insurance Co. v. New Orleans, supra, p.. 88, and MR. JUSTICE BLACK in his dissent
in Connecticut General Co. v. Johnson, supra, pp. 88-89,
have shown how strained a construction it is of the Fourteenth Amendment so to hold. Section 1 of the Amendment provides:
"All persons born or naturalized in the United
States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are
citizens of the United States and of the State wherein
they reside. No State shall make or enforce any law
which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of
citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without
'The Constitutional Position of Property in America, 64 Independent 834, 836 (1908). He went on to say that the Dartmouth
College case (4 Wheat. 518) and the construction given the Fourteenth Amendment in the Santa Clara case "have had the effect of
p icing the modern industrial corporation in an almost impregnable
constitutional position." Id., p. 836.
As to whether the framers of the Amendment may have had such
an undisclosed, purpose, see Graham, The "Cnspiracy Theory" of
the Fourteenth Amendment, 47 Yale L. J. 371.

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. GLANDER.
562

DOUGLAS,

579

J., dissenting.

due process of law; nor deny to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
(Italics added.)
"Persons" in the first sentence plainly includes only
human beings, for corporations are not "born or naturalized."
Corporations are not "citizens" within the meaning of
the first clause of the second sentence. Western Turf
Assn. v. Greenberg, 204 U. S. 359, 363; Selover, Bates &
Co. v. Walsh, 226 U. S. 112, 126.2
It has never been held that they are persons whom a
State may not deprive of "life" within the meaning of
the second clause of the second sentence.
"Liberty" in that clause is "the liberty of natural, not
artificial, persons." Western Turf Assn. v. Greenberg,
supra, p. 363.
But "property" as used in that clause has been held
to include that of a corporation since 1889 when Minneapolis & St. L. R. Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26, was
decided.
It requires distortion to read "person" as meaning one
thing, then another within the same clause and from
clause to clause. It means, in my opinion, a substantial
revision of the Fourteenth Amendment. As to the matter of construction, the sense seems to me to be with Mr.
Justice Woods in Insurance Co. v. New Orleans, supra,
p. 88, where he said, "The plain and evident meaning of
the section is, that the persons to whom, the equal protection of the law is secured are persons born or naturalized or endowed with life and liberty, and consequently
natural and not artificial persons."
History has gone the other way. Since 1886 the Court
has repeatedly struck down state legislation as applied
2Cf. McGovney, A Supreme Court Fiction, 56 Harv. L. Rev. R53,
1090, 1225, dealing with corporations in the diverwe citizenship jurisdietion of the federal co~irtz

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS,

J.,' dissenting.

337 U. S.

to corporations on the ground that it violated the Equal
Protection Clause.' Every one of our decisions upholding legislation as applied to corporations over the objection that it violated the Equal Protection Clause has
assumed that they are entitled to the constitutional protection. But in those cases it was not necessary to meet
the issue since the state law was not found to contain
the. elements of discrimination which the Equal Protection Clause condemns. But now that the question is
squarely presented I can only conclude that the Santa
Clara case was wrong and should be overruled.
One hesitates to overrule cases even in the constitutional field that are of an old vintage. But that has never
been a deterrent heretofore' and should not be now.
3See Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; Gulf,
Colorado & Santa F6 R. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.150; Cotting v. Kansas
City Stockyards Co., 183 U. S.79; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe
Co., 184 U. S.540; Southern R. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S.400; Hemdon v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pac. R. Co., 218 U. S.135; Roach
v. Atchison, T. & Santa Fe R. Co., 218 U. S.159; Atchison, T. &
S. F. R. Co. v. Vosburg, 238 U. S.56; Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider
Granite Co., 240 U. S.55; McFarland v. American Sugar Co., 241
U. S.79; Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S.412; Bethlehem
Motors Corp. v. Flynt, 256 U. S.421; Kansas City So. R. Co. v.
Road Imp. Dist. No. 6, 256 U. S.658;, C. & N. W. R. Co. v. Nye
Co., 260 U. S.35; Sioux City Bridge Co. v. Dakota County, 260
U. S.441; Thomas v. Kansas City So. R. Co., 261 U. S.481; Kentucky Co. v. Paramount Exch.,'262 U. S.544; Air-Way Corp. v.
Day, 266 U. S. 71; Hanover Ins. Co. v. Harding, 272 U. S.494;
Power Co. v. Saunders, 274 U. S.490; Louisville Gas Co. v. Coleman,
277 U. S.32; Quaker City Cab Co. v. Penna., 277 U. S.389; Cumberland Coal Co. v. Board, 284 U. S.23; Liggett Co. v. Lee, 288
U. S.517; Concordia Ins. Co. v. Illinois, 292 U. S. 535; Stewart
Dry Goods Co. v. Lewis, 294 U. S. 550; Mayflower Farms v. Ten
Eyck, 297 U. S.266; Hartford Co. v. Harrison,301 U. S. 459.
4In re Ayers, 123 U. S.. 443, overruled in part Osborn v. United
States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, a decision 63 years old; Leisy v. Hardin,
135 U. S. 100," overruled. Peirce v. New Hampshire, 5 How. 504, a
decision 42 years old. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, over-

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. GLANDER.
562

DOUGLAS,

581

J., dissenting.

We are dealing with a question of vital concern to the
people of the nation. It may be most desirable to give
corporations this protection from the operation of the
legislative process. But that question is not for us. It
is for the people. If they want corporations to be treated
as humans are treated, if they want to grant corporations
this large degree of emancipation from state regulation,'5
they should say so. The Constitution provides a method
by which they may do s6. We should not do it for them
through the guise of interpretation.

ruled Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, a decision 95 years old; Graves v.
N. Y. ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466, overruled Collector v. Day,
11 Wall, 113, a decision 68 years old. United States v. Underwriters
Assn., 322 U. S. 533, overruled in part Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168,
a decision 75 years old.
5 The restrictions on state power which are contained in the Commerce Clause 'and which may prevent the -States from burdening
interstate commerce (see Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 325 U. S.
761; Morgan v. Virginia, 328 U. S. 373) or discriminating against
it (see Nippert v. Richmond, 327 U. S. 416) ripe from a different
source and are not relevant here.

