WEADE v. DICHMANN CO..
783

801

Syllabus.

clusion that an agent such as Cosmopolitan, who contracts
to manage certain shoreside business of a vessel operated
by the War Shipping Administration, is not liable to a
seaman for injury caused by the negligence of the master
or crew of such a vessel.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR.
TICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE dissent.

JUS-

WEADE ET AL. V. DICHMANN, WRIGHT & PUGH,
INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 179.

Argued February 1, 1949.-Decided June 27, 1949.

1. Respondent was employed by the United States as a general agent
under the terms of the war-time standard form of general agency
agreement to manage certain phases of the business of a ship
owned by the United States and operated by the War Shipping
Administration. By an addendum to the agreement, it was also
required to arrange for the. transportation of passengers as agent
of the United States. Certain women passengers and the husband
of one of them sued respondent for damages sustained through
injuries to the women resulting from the wrongful act of a member
of the ship's crew. Held: Respondent wAs not liable as the owner
pro hac vice, or 'as a common carrier operating the vessel, or as
the employer of the master or crew. Cosmopolitan Shipping Co.
v. McAllister, ante, p. 783. Pp. 802-809.
2. Performance of such shoreside duties as iquing tickets, maintaining the vessel in the service directed by the United States, maintaining terminals and offices, arranging for loading and unloading
passengers, arranging for advertising, provisioning the ship, and
procuring officers and crew for hire by the master, all as agent
of the United States, did not make the general agent liable as a
common carrier to the public or anyone. Pp! 805-808.
3. Petitioners argued here that respondent as an agent is independently liable for its negligence in procuring unsuitable crew mem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

bers; but this theory of liability was not relied upon at the trial,
instructions upon the point were not given or requested, and no
exceptions were taken by petitioner to the instructions given
Held: In these circumstances, error cannot be urged here as t(
this point. P. 808.
4. There being suggestions in the complaint. and evidence of alleged
liability of respondent to petitioners for respondent's own negligence while acting as general agent, the Court of Appeals, which
reversed the trial court's judgment for petitioners, erred in directin"
the trial court to enter a judgment for respondent. Pp. 808-80C
5. No opinion is expressed as to the circumstances in which respond
ent might be liable for its own actions as general agent. P. 809.
168 .F. 2d 914, modified and affirmed.

A Federal District Court gave a judgment to certain

passengers and the husband of one of them against a
general agent employed by the United States to manage
certain phases of the business of a ship owned by the
United -States and operated by the War Shipping Administration, for injuries sustained as a result of the
wrongful conduct of a member of theship's crew. The
Court 'f Appeals reversed. 168 F. 2d 914. This Court
granted certiorari. 335 U. S. 810. Modified and affirmed, p. 809.
William E. Leahy argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief were Michael F. Keogh, J. Robert
Carey, Richard H. Love, Edward L. Breeden, Jr., Walter
E. Hoffman and William J. Hughes, Jr.
Leavenworth Colby argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,
Assistant Attorney GeneralMorisonand PaulA. Sweeney.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the Opinion of the Court,

On August 3, 1945, at Old Point Comfort, Virginia,
petitioners, Mrs. Lillian A. Weade and Mrs. Roberta L.
Stinemeyer, purchased tickets and embarked as passen-

WEADE v. DICHMANN CO.
801

Opinion of the Court.

gers on the Meteor, a steamboat owned by the United
States through the War Shipping Administration and
operating between Norfolk, Virginia, and Washington,
D. C. The ladies retired to their stateroom about 11:00
p. m. and because of the warm weather opened both
the glass and the shutter of :the window which faced
onto the boat deck. During the night the second cook
of the Meteor entered the stateroom through the open
window and raped. Mrs. Weade, who was sleeping in
the lower berth. Mrs. Stinemeyer suffered fright and
shock from witnessing this atrocity. The perpetrator of
the crime was subsequently tried, convicted, and executed.
This case involves the liability of a general agent to
passengers under a contract similar to that discussed in
Cosmopolitan Shipping Co. v. McAllister, ante, p. 783,
decided this day. The agency agreement covered passenger boats through an 'addendum to the contract providing for additional services by the general agent.'
Petitioners, Lillian A. Weade and her husband, instituted a civil action for damages against respondent in
the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Virginia. The husband alleged as his damages loss
of consortium and the expenses of the hospitalization of
his wife. Petitioner Mrs. Stinemeyer brought a separate
civil action for her damages in the same court. Jurisdiction in both actions was based on diversity of citizenship,
and the two civil actions were consolidated for trial. Ii
addition Mrs. Weade filed a libel in admiralty against the
United States, which action has 'been continued pending
the final determination of the present proceedings.
The complaint of Mr. and" Mrs. Weade alleged, so far
as now important, that the steamboat was operated as
a common carrier by respondent and that petitioners
'Se note 3, infra,and 46 C. F. R. Cum. Supp. ยง 306.44.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

were injured through the failure of respondent to provide
adequate protection for its passengers from the personal
misconduct of its employees, and through the failure to
use due care in the selection of reliable, careful, and competent employees. The complaint of Mrs. Stinemeyer is
substantially the same as to the specifications of negligence, though it did not assert that respondent itself
was a common carrier, but did allege that the injury
occurred through the act of respondent's employees. The
respondent's answer denied that the vessel was operated
by it as a common carrier and that the master and crew
of the vessel were its employees. The answer further
alleged that the vessel was operated by the War Shipping
Administration, and that respondent only performed certain services for the owner of the ship as general agent
in accordance with the standard service agreement.
The jury as triers of fact in this civil proceeding were
instructed as a matter of law that by virtue of the contract
respondent was 'the actual operator of the vessel as a
common carrier owing the highest degree of care to its
passengers. The trial judge further charged that, as a
common carrier, this duty to exercise the highest degree
of care extended to all acts of the carrier and included
the providing of safe accommodations and protection for
passengers, the providing of a suitable number of watchmen, and the selection *of competent, Icareful, and sober
employees. The jury returned verdicts for petitioners,
and the trial judge denied the motion of the respondent
for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, stating as his
reason therefor: "While the case of Hu8t v. MooreMcCormack Lines, Incorporated,328 U. S. 707, is not precisely in point, it is my view that it is controlling so far as
the liability of the defendant is concerned." On appeal'
the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit reversed
and held that under Caldarolav. Eckert, 332 U. S. 155,

WEADE v. DICHMANN CO.
801

805

Opinion of the Court.

respondent was not the owner pro hac vice in possession
and control of the vessel and thus could not be liable
as a common carrier for the safety of the passengers.
Dichmann, Wright & Pugh v. Weade, 168 F. 2d 914.
Under our holding today in No. 351, Cosmopolitan
Shipping Co. v. McAllister, ante, p. 783, the instructions
referred to above were erroneous. Respondent was not
the owner pro hac vice, was not a common carrier operating the vessel, and was not the employer of the master or
crew. The trial of the', present proceeding revolved
around these questions and did not concern the problem
of negligence on the part of respondent or of its own
agents in handling the ship or crew on voyage as an agent
of the United States as distinguished from an employer
of the master and crew or owner pro hac vice.
Petitioners urge in point 3 of their brief as a ground
for upholding the decision of the trial court that respondent, because of the duties imposed upon it by the General
Agency Agreement, was liable as a common carrier as
far as the public was concerned. In support of. this
contention they point to the duties of the general agent
to issue tickets, maintain the vessel in the service directed
by the United States, maintain terminals and offices,
arrange for the loading and unloading of passengers,
arrange for advertising, provision the ship, and procure
officers and crew for hire by the master. The performance of such shoreside duties, however, does not make the
agent liable as a common carrier to the public or anyone.2
At the insistence of the Navy, the War Shipping Administration in-1945 instituted a nightly service of two
steamboats between Norfolk and Washington. The name
given to this service was the Washington-Hampton Roads
Line, and the Meteor was one of the two vessels employed
2 See

Cosmopolitan Shipping Co. v. McAllister, ante, p. 783.

806

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

therein. These two vessels were assigned to respondent
as general agent by a passenger addendum to the standard
GAA 4-4-42 agreement,8 under which respondent had
been general agent for some twenty cargo vessels. It
will be noted that, under Article 3A (f) of the addendum,
the general agent was to arrange for the transportation
of passengers and to issue tickets for this purpose. The
$"Whereas,. the United States of America (Herein called the
'United States') acting by and through the Administrator, War
Shipping Administration, and Dichmann, Wright & Pugh, Inc. (herein
called the 'General Agent') entered into an Agreement (Contract
WSA-4098) dated January 9, 1943 (herein called the 'Service Agreement') whereby the United States appointed the General Agent as its
agent to manage and conduct the business of cargo vessels assigned
to it by the United States; and
"Whereas, it is desirable to have as far as practicable both cargo
vessels and passenger vessels operated under the uniform provisions
of one agreement.
"Now, Therefore:
"The United States and the General Agent agree that passenger
vessels heretofore or hereafter allocated to the General Agent to
conduct the business of the vessels as agent of the United States
shall be.governed by the provisions of the Service Agreement modified
as follows:
"Section 1. Article 3A of the Service Agreement is hereby amended
by adding a provision following subsection (e) thereof as follows:
"'(f) Shall arrange for the transportation of passengers when
so directed, and issue or cause to be issued to such passengers customary passenger tickets. After a uniform passenger ticket shall
have been adopted by the United States, such passenger ticket shall
be used in all cases as soon as practicable after receipt thereof by
the General Agent. Pending the issuance of such uniform passenger
ticket, the General Agent may continue to use its customary form
of passenger ticket.'
"Section 2. The vessels to which the Service Agreement will apply
by operation of this Part II, are as listed on Exhibit B attached hereto
and made a part hereof, and such additional vessels as may from time
to time be assigned to the General Agent by letter agreement.
. "In witness whereof ....

WEADE v. DICHMANN CO.
801

Opinion of the Court.

ticket, which is set out in the margin,' bears the express
notation that the steamboat line was "Operated by United
States of America, War Shipping Administration," and
that respondent was serving in the capacity of an agent.
Respondent's duties were to service the ships and to
"arrange for the transportation" of passengers on them.
The duty of a common carrier, on the other hand, is to
transport for hire whoever employs it. Here the contract called for the actual transportation to be carried out
by the War Shipping Administration. The respondent's
duties ended at the shore linq. Cosmopolitan Shipping
Co. v. McAllister, supra. The cases cited by petitioner
holding a transportation agent liable as a common car"Issued by
"Washington-Hampton Roads Line
"Operated by United States of America, War Shipping Administration
"One First Class Passage
"Norfolk, or Old Point Comfort Va. to Washington, D. C.
"Subject to the Following contract:
"This ticket is void unless officially stamped and dated.
"Baggage valuation is limited to $100 for and adult and $50 for
a child, unless purchaser hereof declares a greater valuation at time
baggage is presented for transportation and pays excess valuation
charges according to tariff rates, rules and regulations.
"The company will under no circumstances be responsible for any
moneys or valuables unless deposited with the Purser on Steamer,
nor will they be responsible for any baggage unless properly checked.
"This ticket is limited for passage within thirty days from date of
sale stamped on back.
"Dichmann, Wright &Pugh, Inc., Agent.
"I. S. Walker, Gen. Passenger Agent."
'Niagara v. Cordes, 21 How. 7, 22; Washington ex rel. Stimson
Lumber Co. v. KuykendaUi, 275 U. S. 207, 211; United States v.
Brooklyn Eastern District Terminal, 249 U. S. 296, 305-306. Cf.
Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. United States, 243 U. S. 444; I. C. C. v.
Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. Co., 220 U. S. 235.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

rier involve situations where the actual movement of
goods or passengers was carried out by the agent.6
Under the contract respondent here was not in any way
engaged in the carriage of passengers between Norfolk
and Washington and had never held itself out to the
public as ready to engage in such traffic. As a mere
arranger of transportation it does not incur the liability
of a common carrier.
Apart from their reliance upon respondent's control
of the vessel on voyage under the agency contract, petitioners further argue that respondent as an agent is independently liable for its negligence in procuring unsuitable
crew members. This theory of liability was not relied
upon at the trial. Instructions upon the point were not
given or requested. The court did charge that as principal and operator of the vessel the respondent was responsible for any tort committed by the steamship personnel and as a common carrier was under the duty to
exercise the highest degree of care for the safety of the
passengers including the selection of personnel. It was
upon the tasis of respondent's liability as common carrier
that petitioners developed their causes of action, and
upon that theory the jury, under the instructions discussed
above, returned a verdict in their favor. At the conclusion of the trial judge's charge, counsel for petitioners
stated, "If your Honor please, we have no exceptions."
Under these circumstances, error cannot be urged as to
this point. See Rule 8 (1), Supreme Court of the United
States;. Rule 51 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure;
United States v. Atkinson, 297 U. S. 157.
By the decision below, the trial court was directed
to enter a judgment for respondent, which had filed a
6 United

States v. Brooklyn Terminal, 249 U. S. 296; Union'Stock
"ard Co. v. United States, 308 U. S.213.

WEADE v. DICHMANN CO.
Opinion of the Court.

motion for judgrr~nt notwithstanding the verdict. As
there were suggestions in the complaint and evidence of
alleged liability of respondent to petitioners for respondent's own negligence while acting as general agent, this
direction should not have been given. See Brady v.
Roosevelt S. S. Co., 317 U. S. 575.7 The decision is modified so as to eliminate the direction to enter judgment
We express no opinion as to what circumstances might
fix liability upon the respondent for its own actions as
general agent.
Affirmed as modified.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR.
TICE MURPHY

and MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

JUS-

dissent.

7See 2 Restatement, Agency ยง 358.
8 Globe

Liquor Co. v. San Roman, 332 U. S. 571; Cone v. Wet

VirginiaPaper Co., 330 U. S. 212.

