COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. WJR.
Syllabus.

FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION v.

WJR, THE GOODWILL STATION, INC.

ET A-L.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT.

No. 495. Argued April 22, 1949.-Decided June 6, 1949.
Without notice to Radio Station WJR, which was ':censed as a
Class I Station, the Federal CommunicatioN Commission granted
another party an application for a permit to construct a Class
II Station to broadcast on the same frequency previously used
exclusively by WJR. Alleging that the new station would cause
"objectionable interference" with its broadcast signal, WJR petitioned for reconsideration of the application and for a hearing
to Which it might be made a party or, in the alternative, that
final action on the application be postponed until the conclusion
of a pending "clear channel" proceeding, in which the Commission
was considering allowing WJR and other stations to increase their
power. The applicant challenged the legal sufficiency of WJR's
petition on the ground that WJR had not set forth facts which,
if accepted as true, would constitute interference with WJR's
"normally protected contour." The Commission denied WJR's
petition without oral argument. Held:
1. The Commission was under no duty to WJR to postpone
final action on the application for the permit until it had disposdd
of the "clear channel" proceeding. P. 272.
2. The Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment did notrequire that the Cqmmission afford WJR an opportunity for oral
argument upon its petition for reconsideration of tfe application.
Pp. 272-285.
(a) Procedural due process under the Fifth Amendment does
not require*that an opportunity for oral argument be afforded on
every question of law raised before a judicial or quasi-judicial
tribunal, excepting such questions as may be involved in interlocutory orders. Pp.. 274-277.
(b) The procedure provided by Congress in the Commi#uieations Act, for determination of the questions raised by WJR, 'Js
not lacking in due process. Pp. 277-285.
(c) The provision of § 409 (a) for oral argument before the
Commission in proceedings heard initially before an examiner is
inapplicable here, since this proceeding was not heard or assigned

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Counsel for Parties.

337 U. S.

for hearing in the first instance before an examiner and WJR's
claimed-right of participation arises under § 312 (b). Pp. 277-278.
(d) By §§ 312 (b) and 4 (j), Congress has committed to the'
Commission's discretion the questions whether and under what
circumstances it will allow or require oral argument, except where
the Act expressly requires it. Pp. 281-282.
(e) The provision of § 312 (b) for "reasonable opportunity
to show cause" is not to be construed as always including opportunity for oral argument. Pp. 282-283.
(f) This Court can not say that the Commission abused its
discretion in determining WJR's petition on the written submission. P. 284.
3. It was error for the Court of Appeals to decline to decide
the merits of the question whether WJR's petition stated a legally
sufficient case of (indirect) modification of its license within the
terms of § 312 (b); as well as to decide, without determining that
question, that WJR was entitled to be made a party to and participate as such in the proceedings on the application. P..284.
4. The cause is remanded to. the Court of Appeals for decision
of the basic issue on the merits, uncomplicated by questions of
constitutionality relating to the Commission's procedure. P..285.
84 U. S. App. D. C. 1, 174 F. 2d 226, reversed.

The Federal

Communications

Commission

denied

WJR's petition for reconsideration of an order granting

to another an application for a permit to construct a
radio station. The Court of Appeals reversed and remanded the case to the Commission.

D. C. 1, 174 F. 2d 226.
336 U.'S. 917.

84 -U. S. App.

This Court granted certiogari.

Reversed and remanded, p. 285.

Solicitor General Perlman argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the brief were Stanley M. Silverberg, Benedict P. Cottone, Max Goldman, Richard A.
Solomon and Paul Dobin.
Louis G. Caldwell argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief for WJR, The Goodwill Station,
Inc., ,Were Donald C. Beelar and Percy H. Russell, Jr.
Frank U. Fletcher"was also of counsel for the Coastal
'Plains. Broadcasting Co., Inc., respondent.

COMMUNIdATIONS COMM'N v. WJR.
265

267

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Most broadly stated, the important question presented
by this case is the extent to which due process of law,
as guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment, requires federal
administrative tribunals to accord the right of oral argument to one claiming to be adversely affected by their
action, more particularly upon questions of law. Lest
this spacious form of statement be taken as too sweeping
and abstract to pose a justiciable issue, we think the specific context of fact and decision out of which the question
has arisen must be set forth. But before this is done we
should say that, as we understand the Court of Appeals'
decision, it has ruled that Fifth Amendment procedural
due process requires an opportunity for oral argument..
to be given "on every question of law raised before a
judicial or quasi-judicial tribunal, including questions
raised by demurrer or as if on demurrer, except such questions of law as may be involved in interlocutory orders
such as orders for the stay of proceedings pendente lite,
for temporary injunctions and the like," 174 F. 2d 226,
233, and on this basis has remanded this cause to the
Federal Communications Commission for oral argument.
Involved in the controversy are two radio stations and
the Commission, which is the petitioner here. One of
the stations is the respondent WJR. It is licensed by the
Commission as a "Class I-A Station," 1 to broadcast day
and night from 'Detroit, Michigan, on a frequency of 760
Federal Communications Commission Rules Governing Standard
Broadcast Stations § 3.22 (a): !'A 'Class I Station' is a dominant
station operating on a clear channel and designed to render primary
and secondary service over. an extended area and at relatively long
distances. Its primary service area is free from objectionable interference from other stations on the same and adjacent channels, and its
secondary service area free from interference, except from stations on
the adjacent channel, and from stations on the same channel in

-268.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of -the Court.

33TU. S.

kilocycles and with a strength of 50 kilowatts. The other
station is the intervenor, Coastal Plains (formerly Tarboro) Broadcasting Company.
Prior to August 22, 1946, Tarboro filed written application with the Commission for a permit to construct
a "Class II Station" 2 to broadcast from Tarboro, North
Carolina. On -that date the Commission granted the application. The permit specified that the new station was
to broadcast during the day from Tarboro at a strength
of one kilowatt on the frequency of 760 kilocycles, which
previously had been used exclusively by WJR. The construction permit was granted without notice to WJR and
without' oral hearing or other participation by- it in the
proceedings before the Commission.
On'September 10 ftlowing, WJR filed with the Commission a Written "Petition for reconsideration and hearing." This, alleged that the proposed broadcasting range
of the Coastal Plains station would cause "objectionable
interference" with 'respondent's broadcast signal. Interference was said to be anticipated principally in certain
areas:.of Michigan where "the field intensity of WJR
averages 32 microvolts per meter or less during the dayaccordaficew.ith the channel designation in Sec. 3.25 or in accordance
with the.. *Erigineering Standards of Allocation'. The operating power
shall:be not less than 10 kw nor more than 50 kw (also see Sec.
3.25"(*a.for'further power limitation)." 4 Fed. Reg. 2715.
z Federal Communications Commission Rules Governing Standard
Btoadcast Stations § 3.22 (by: "A 'Class II Station' is a secondary
statign whih operates on a clear channel (see Sec. 3.25) and is
desigfied to render service over a primary service area which is
limitd by and. subject to such interference as may be received
from Class -I .statlons. A station of this class shall operate with
power'not .less than 0.25 kilowatts nor more than 50 kilowatts.
Whenever necessary a Class II station shall use a directional antenna
or other means to avoid interference with Class I stations and with
other Class II stations, in accordance with the 'Engineering Standards
of'Allocation.'" 4 Fed. Reg.2715.

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. WJR.
265

269

Opinion of the Court.

time hours,"' but where "WJR provides the best signal
available"; limited interference "during the winter season" was also expected within "contours" of field intensity
"much higher" than 32 microvolts; interference of unspecified extent was also thought likely in neighboring
states, though as to such areas it was conceded that "a
better signal is provided by other stations."
On the basis of these allegations WJR asked that the
Commission hold a hearing on the Coastal Plains application to which WJR might be made a party or, in the
<alternative, postpone final action on the C9astal Plains
application until the conclusion of the then peh4ing."Clear
Channel" 4 proceeding. In that proceeding, essentially
legislative in character, the Commission was considering
the desirability of changing its rules so as to allow WJR
and other stations to increase their broadcast strengths
to 500 kilowatts. The basis for the alterrlative request
was WJR's fear that a grant of the Coastal Plains construction permit might prejudice a possible future WJR application for increased signal strength in the event the decision in the clear channel proceeding should so modify the
Commission's rules as to facilitate such an application.
Coastal Plains filed an opposition to WJR's petition for
reconsideration, asserting among othei grounds for denial
that WJR had not alleged that the proposed new operation "would cause any interference within the normally
protected service area of station WJR" and -had neither
8For the meaning of the term "field intensity," and for the relation
of a broadcast signal's "field intensity" to the legal* concept of a
licensed radio station's "normally protected contbuK," see note 5..
4
Federal Communications Commission Rules Governing Standard
Broadcast Stations § 3.21 (a): "A 'clear channel' is one-on which the,
dominant station or stations render service over wide areas and
which are cleared of objectionable interference, within their primary
service areas and over all or a substantial portion of their secondary
service areas." 4 Fed. Reg. 2715.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

alleged nor proved "any interference within its normally
protected contours." The opposition was based on the
theory that under the Commission's regulations WJR's
license conferred no right to protection against interference outside its normally protected contours as specified
in the regulations, that the interference alleged was outside those contours, and hence WJR's petition was legally
insufficient on its face to state any basis for WJR to be
made a.party to or to be heard in the Coastal Plains
proceeding.
No response to the opposition was filed by WJR and
some three months later, on December 17, 1946, the Commission denied WJR's application in a written opinion,
rendered without prior oral argument. The opinion first
disposed of the allegations of interference:
"Station WJR is a Class I-A station. Under the
Commission's Rules and Standards, Class I-A stations are normally protected daytime to the 100
microvolt-per-meter contour. The area sought by
petitioner to be protected is, according to the engineering affidavit accompanying the petition, served
by Station WJR during the daytime with a signal
intensity of 32 microvolts-per-meter or less, and is
therefore outside the normally protected contour."
As the Court of Appeals later treated this ruling, it
was the equivalent of holding as a matter of, law, in
5The dissenting opinion in the Court of Appeals decision here
under review offers a succinct exposition of these technical terms:
"This concept of norial protection in the daytime is clear. The
circumference of -th protected area is a contour line, which is fixed
by measurement of the strength of the radio waves from the par-.
ticular station. That strength, or intensity, is measured in terms
of microvolts (millionths of a volt) or millivolts (thousandths of
a volt) per meter, abbreviated as uv/m and mv/m respectively.
The wave which is measured is the groundwave, which follows the

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. WJR.
265

271

Opinion of the Court.

judicial parlance essentially as though raised upon demurrer, that WJR's petition did not state facts sufficient
to raise any legal issue concerning (indirect) modification
of WJR's license or rights under the license. The Commission also denied WJR's alternate request to stay the
Coastal Plains application, concluding that postponement
of the newly authorized service. Out of deference to any
possible "future assignment of -facilities" to WJR "would
not serve the public interest."
WJR then appealed to the Court of Appeals. The
court agreed that the Commission had not abused its discretion in 'efusing to stay the Coastal Plains permit until
completion of the clear channel proceeding. It held,
however, that WJR's claim of objectionable interference
with its broadcast signal presented a question of law and,
by a closely divided vote, in the broad language quoted
surface of the earth and extends greater or less distances depending
upon the nature of the earth, its topography, and such obstacles
as noise and steel structures. Generally speaking, the greater the
distance from the station, the less the strength 6f the station signal.
The '100 uv/m ground wave contour' named in the Commission's
Standards, is the imaginary line which connects all points at which
the ground wave of the station is of 100 microvolts per meter
strength." 174 F. 2d 226, 244.
The "Commission's Standards" to which the opinion refers are
the Standards of Good Engineering Practice Concerning Broadcast
Stations. Under the subheading "Engineering Standards of Allocation," paragraph (2) (a) provides as follows: "The Class I stations
in Group 1 are those assigned to the channels allocated by Section
3.25, paragraph (a) [including, inter alia, the 760 kilocycle frequency
assigned to WJR, 4 Fed. Reg. 2716], on which duplicate nighttime
operation is not permitted, that is, no other station is .permitted to
operate on a channel with a Class I station of this group within
the limits of the United' States (the Class II stations assigned the.
channels operate limited time or daytime only) and during daytime
the Class I station is protected to the 100 uv/m ground wave contour." 4 Fed. Reg. 2862.

.272

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

*abov ,6 that, concerning the merits of that question, the
Fifth Amendment assured to WJR the right of oral argument before the Commission. Accordingly, it refused to
consider whether the Commission was right in its legal
conclusion that areas of signal intensity lower than 100
microvolts per meter were not within the "normally protected contour" of a Class I-A station, reversed the
Commission's denial of WJR's petition, and remanded the
case for oral argument before the Commission. 174 F.
2d 226. To consider the questions of importance to the
administrative process thus determined, we issued our
writ of certiorari. 336 U. S. 917.
At the outset we note our complete agreement with the
Court of Appeals that the Commission was under no duty
to WJR to postpone final action on the Coastal Plains
permit until it had disposed of the clear channel proceeding. As the courtpointed out, WJR had no vested right
in the "supposititious eventualities" that the Commission
at some indeterminate time might modify its rules governing clear channel stations. Furthermore, the judicial
regulation of an administrative docket sought by WJR
"would require [the Court of Appeals] to direct the order
in which the Commission shall consider its cases." And
this, as the court said, it "cannot do." 174 F. 2d at 231.
"Only Congress could confer such a priority." Federal
Communications Commission v. Pottsville Broadcasting
Co., 309 U. S. 134, 145.
Obviously the most important question is the Court of
Appeals' ruling that Fifth Amendment due process reo The

case was first argued before three justices; Chief Justice
Groner and Justes Clark and Prettyman. By direction of the
court it was reargued before Justices Stephens, Edgerton, Clark,
Wilbur K. Miller and Prettyman. The decision was rendered pur'uant to an opinion of Justice Stephens, in which Justices Clark and
Miller concurred.4, Justice Prettyman filed a dissenting opinion in
which Justice Edgerton joined.

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. WJR.
265

273

Opinion of the Court.

quired the Commission to afford respondent an opportunity for oral argument upon its petition for reconsideration of Coastal Plains' application; together with its
grounding of that ruling in the even broader one that
such an opportunity is an inherent element of procedural
due process in all judicial or quasi-judicial, i. e., administrative, determinations of questions of law, outside of
such questions as may arise upon interlocutory matters
involving stays pendente lite, temporary injunctions and
the like.
That the scope of its decision might not be .misunderstood, the court expressly stated: "A ruling upon a demurrer is obviously not interlocutory for if the demurrer
is sustained the pleader's cause (or defense) is dismissed
Moreover; except as to the in,
upon the merits ...
dicated interlocutory matters, the right of oral argument
on questions of law ("as well as . . . those of fact'' when
raised) was said to be "not conditional upon the ex parte
view of the tribunal as to whether there is a substantial
question as to the sufficiency of the allegations of a complainant." 174 F. 2d at 240.
,Accordingly, although it was urged both by the Commission and by WJR to consider and determine the
"threshold" question of law upon its merits, namely,
whether the Commission's decision in denying WJR's petition was wrong, the court refused to consider or decide
that question. In its view the question of the Commission's duty to accord a hearing, "i. e., to hear argument
"

7 The statement, taken in its context and the pervading sense of
the opinion, related not merely to judicial rulings technically "raised
by demurrer" but also to judicial and administrative rulings "as if
on demurrer," i. e., as expressly stated later in the opinion, to rulings
"raised by demurrer or motion to dismiss or, in an administrative
proceeding, by some less formally named instrument of like purpose,
or by the tribunal's sua sponte treatment of a petition as if under
demurrer . . . ." 174 F. 2d at 236.

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

before deciding whether the allegations of WJR's petition
were sufficient" in law, was "a procedural. question quite
separate from the question on the merits whether or not
the allegations of the petition, assuming their truth, were
sufficient." 174 F. 2d at 240. The statutory scheme of
the Communications Act, the court thought, "contemplates, before review in this court, proper exercise of
the Commission's primary jurisdiction, i. e., valid first
instance hearings properly conducted from the procedural-due process-standpoint." Ibid. Accordingly,
the majority felt that the court "must therefore remand
the case with directions to the Commission to allow a
hearing to WJR. Then if after hearing the Commission
decides that the allegations were insufficient and dismisses
the petition . . . an appeal to this court will bring properly before us the question of the correctness of the ComJ..."
Ibid.
mission's decision on the merits .
I.
.Taken at its literal and explicit import, the Court's
broad constitutional ruling cannot be sustained. So
taken, it would require oral argument upon every ques8Both from the wording of the immediate reference, quoted above,
and from other language in context, it 'is clear that the court's reference to "the statutory scheme set up in the Communications Act"
was not designed as a ruling that the statutory scheme itself, considered wholly as such and apart from any requirement of due
process, affords the right of oral argument upon all questions of
law, other than the interlocutory exceptions, before the Commission.
Rather, the reference was intended to construe the Act as incorporating the court's reiterated conception of due-process .requirements in this respect, in effect as a construction required by the
Fifth Amendment. It is clear also that in this ruling the court
identified "hearing" with "oral argument" insofar as determination
of questions of law are concerned. We are thus confronted, so far
as the court's decision went, with no question purely of statutory
construction but solely, at bottom, with one of constitutional import
and effect.

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. WJR.
265

275

Opinion of the Court.

tion of law, apart from the excluded interlocutory matters, arising in administrative proceedings of every sort.
This would be regardless of whether the legal question
were substantial or insubstantial; of the substantive nature of the asserted right or interest involved; of whether
Congress had provided a procedure, relating to the particular interest, requiring oral argument or allowing it
to be dispensed with; and regardless of the fact that full
opportunity for judicial review may be available.
We do not stop to consider the .effects of such a ruling,
if accepted, upon the work of the vast and varied administrative as well as judicial tribunals of the federal sys'tem and the equally numerous and diversified interests
affected by their functioning; or indeed upon the many
and different types of administrative and judicial procedures which Congress has provided for dealing adjudicatively with such interests. It is enough to say that
due process of law, as conceived by the Fifth Amendment,
has never been cast in so rigid and all-inclusive
confinement.
On the contrary, due process of law has never been
a term of fixed and invariable content.' This is as true
with reference to oral argument as with respect to other
elements of procedural due process. For this Court has
held in some situations that such argument is essential
to a fair hearing, Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S. 373, in
P"The Fifth Amendment guarantees no particular form of procedure; it protects substantial rights." Labor Board v. Mackay Co.,
304 U. S. 333, 351. "The requirements imposed by that guaranty
[Fifth Amendment due process] are not technical, nor is any particular form of procedure necessary." Inland Empire Cduncil v.
Millis,325 U. S.697, 710. See also Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S.
503, 519-521; Opp Cotton Mills v. Administrator,312 U. S.126, 152153; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S.470, 496-497; Anniston MIg.
Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S.337, 342, 343; United States v. Ju Toy, 198
U. S. 253, 263; Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S.226,
235; Phillipsv. Commissioner, 283 U. S.589, 596-907.
,

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

others that argument submitted in writing is sufficient.
Morgan v. United States, 298 U. S. 468, 481. See also
Johnson & Wimsatt v. Hazen, 69 App. D. C. 151; Mitchell
v. Reichelderfer, 61 App. D. C. 50.
The decisions cited are sufficient to show that the broad
generalization made by the Court of Appeals is not the
law. Rather it is in conflict with this Court's rulings,
in effect, that the right of oral argument .as a matter
of procedural due process varies from case to case in
accordance with differing circumstances, as do other procedural regulations. Certainly the Constitution does not
require oral argument in all cases where only insubstantial or frivolous questions of law, or indeed even substantial ones, are raised. Equally certainly it has left
wide discretion to Congress in creating the procedures
to be followed in both administrative and judicial proceedings, as well as in their conjunction.
Without in any sense discounting the value of oral
argument wherever it may be appropriate or, by virtue
of the particular circumstances, constitutionally required,
we, cannot accept the broad formula upon which the
Court of Appeals rested its ruling. To do so would
do violence not only to our own former decisions but
also, we think, to the constitutional power of Congress
to devise differing administrative and legal procedures
appropriate for the disposition of issues affecting interests
widely varying in kind. ' °
10 For example, what may be appropriate or constitutionally re-

quired by way of procedure, including opportunity for oral argument,
in protection of an alien's claims of right to enter the country, cf.
Johnson v. Shaughnessy, 336 U. S. 806, may be very different from
what is required to determine an alleged citizen's right of entry
or reentry, cf. Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276, 282; Carmichael v. Delaney, 170 F. 2d 239, 243-244; a claimed right of
naturalization, Tutun v. United States, 270 U. S. 568,1576-578; a
claim of just compensation for land condemned, cf. Roberts v. New
York City, 295 U. S. 264, 277-278; or the right to defend against
an indictment for crime.

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. WJR.
265

277

Opinion of the Court.

It follows also that we should not undertake in this
case to generalize more broadly than the particular circumstances require upon when and under what circumstances procedural due process may require oral argument. That is not a matter, under our decisions, for
broadside generalization and indiscriminate application.
It is rather one for case-to-case determination, through
which alone account may be taken of differences in the
particular interests affected, circumstances involved, and
procedures prescribed by Congress for dealing with them.
Only thus may the judgment of Congress, expressed pursuant to its power under the Constitution to devise both
judicial and administrative procedures, be taken into account. Any other approach would be, in these respects,
highly abstract, indeed largely in a vacuum.
II.
Descending to the concrete setting of this case in the
provisions of the Communications Act,' we are unable
to conclude that the procedure Congress has provided
for determination of the questions respondent raises affords any semblance of due process deficiency.
The statute itself provides in terms for oral argument
before the Commission in a single situation only, namely,
in proceedings heard initially before an examiner under
§ 409 (a).
That provision however has no pertinence
to this case, since it was not heard or assigned for hearing
in the first instance before an examiner and respondent's
claimed right of participation arises under § 312 (b). 47
U. S. C. § 312 (b). That section authorizes the Commission to modify station licenses "if in the judgment
1"Act

of June 19, 1934, c. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 1081, 47 U. S. C.

§ 301 ff.
*

12

The section reads in part: "In all cases heard by an examiner

the Commission shall hear oral arguments ....

§ 409-(a).

."

47 U. S. C.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

of the Commission such action will promote the public
interest, convenience, and necessity," but provides "That
no such order of modification shall become final un'til
the holder of such outstanding license . . . shall have
been notified in writing of the proposed action and the
grounds or reasons therefor and shall have been given
reasonable opportunity to show cause why such an order
of modification should not issue."
As bearing on the meaning of § 312 (b), account must
be taken also of two 6ther factors. One is § 4 (j) of the
Act [47 U. S. C. § 154 (j)], which provides: "The Commission may conduct its proceedings in such manner as
will best conduce to the proper dispatch of business and
to the ends Of justice. . . . Any party may appear before
the Commission and be heard in person or by attorney. . . ." The other factor consists in this Court's decision in Federal Communications Commission v. National Broadcasting Co., 319 U. S. 239, the so-called KOA
case.
That case held that the granting of a license to broadcast on a frequency and at a strength which would interfere with the broadcast signal of a prior licensee within
the protection of the latter's license as afforded by the
Commission's existing rules constitutes an indirect modification of the prior outstanding license. From this it
was held to follow that'§ 312 (b) gave the prior licensee
the right to be made a party to the proceeding and hence
to "have notice in writing of the proposed action and
the grounds therefor and . . . a reasonable opportunity
to show cause why an order of modification should not
issue." 319 U. S. at 245-246. Then followed the Court's
conclusion that by virtue of KOA's right to be a 'party,
it had also the right under § 402 (b) (2), as a "person
aggrieved or whose interests are adversely affected," to
appeal to the Court of Appeals from the Commission's

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. WJR.
265

279

Opinion of the Court.

denial of its petition to intervene and participate as a
party in the proceedings before it.
It is in this context of statutory provisions and judicial
decision that, WJR's claim of right to participate in the
Commission's proceedings, including the right bf oral
argument, and of denial of due process through-the denial
of its petition for reconsideration arises and must be
considered.
WJR's petition presents the question whether upon its
face it states facts sufficient to show (indirect) modification of its license by the granting of Coastal Plains'
application. This in turn depends on whether allegations not asserting-interference within the 100 microvoltper-meter contour or, as the Commissionheld, allegations
asserting interference only "outside the normally lrotected contour" of WJR's license, set forth any legally
sufficient basis for a claim of right to be made a party
and participate in the proceedings. And, again, according to respondent, the answer to.that question turns on
whether the Commission's Standards of Good Engineering Practice Concerning Standard Broadcast Stations constitute a part of and a limitation 'upon WJR's license."3
Respondent insists that those Standards, as a matter
of law, do not limit its license or measure the protection
it affords against "objectionable interference"; it necessarily argues in addition that the degree -of interference
its petition alleges brings about an (indirect) modification of its license (conversely stated, that the license
protected it against the alleged degree of interference)
and hence, as in the KOA case, the proposed grant of
The Standards, 4 Fed. Reg. 2862, expressly state that "during
daytime the Class I station is protected to the 100 uv/m ground
wave contour." § 1 (2),(a).. The Commission's Standards of Good
Engineering Practice Concerning Standard Broadcast Stations, were
adopted in 1939 after formal and informal hearings. Fifth Annual
Report of the Federal Communications Commission (1940) 37.
1s

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

a new license entitles it under § 312 (b) to be made a
party to the Coastal Plains proceeding and to participate
in it as § 312 (b) provides.
This is the claim which the Court of Appeals purported expressly to refuse to consider or decide, prior
to oral argument upon it before the Commission. But
two things may be noted. One is that, contrary to the
situation here, in the KOA case the Commission's proposed grant of a new license to Station WHDH concededly created interference against which the existing
rules of the- Commission protected the prior license of
14
KOA.
In the second place, the majority's disclaimer here of
decision upon the merits seems hardly consistent with
its opinion's flat ruling, as we understand it, that WJR's
allegations qualified it as a party t the proceeding and
not, as the dissenting judges thought, merely as a stranger
seeking to come in as an intervenor."' For that question
here, viz., whether WJR's allegations entitle it to standing as a party, is but another way of phrasing the issue
14

In other words, the interference alleged was within the conceded
"normal contours" of KOA's protection, not without them. There
was therefore no question such as is presented here whether the
existing station's license protected it against the interference alleged.
The KOA decision therefore cannot be taken as ruling that one
asserting interference outside the scope' of its license protection,
afforded by the Commission's rules and regulations, is entitled to
be made a party and to participate in proceedings involving the
issuance of a new license creating only such interference.
15 The court's opinion stated: "WJR as an outstanding licensee
is not a mere permissive intervener or, as the minority puts it, an
'outsider'." 174 F. 2d at 240. The statement of the minority to
which this rejoinder was made was: "The ruling [of the majority]
is that a petitioner for intervention in an administrative proceeding
is entitled to an oral hearing as a matter of constitutional right, nb
matter what or how little he says in his petition. . . . [WJR's petition] was basically a petition to intervene, as it asked that WJR
be made a party to the Coastal Plains proceeding." Id. at 243.

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. WJR.
265

281

Opinion of the Court.

whether its petition states a legally sufficient claim of
(indirect) modification, since under § 312 (b) only a
prior licensee who 9tates such a claim is entitled to be
made a party and to participate in the proceedings. To
decide that one has the status of a party is therefore to
decide the question of modification vet non.
In view of the court's mandate, however, we think
we must accept its disclaimer. But we also think that,
in the light of the disclaimer, its ruling, if it was such,
that WJR is entitled to be made a party must be rejected
and that question must be regarded as inherently involved
in, indeed as identical with, the undetermined issue of
modification vel non, if. any effect is to be given to the
provisions of § 312 (b)."
We think the limitations of that section must be given
effect. Indeed it is our view that the Act's procedural
scheme and its application in this case have not deprived
the respondent of any procedural right guaranteed by
the due-process requirement of the Fifth Amendment.
That is true notwithstanding the Commission's failure
to afford respondent an opportunity for oral argument
upon its allegations in this case.
Congress, we think, has committed to the Commission's
discretion, by the terms of § 312 (b) and § 4 (j) of. the
Communications Act, the questions whether and under
what circumstances it will allow or require oral argument, except where the Act itself expressly requires it.
The Court of Appeals was not simply construing the statute,
but was influenced throughout its opinion by its broad constitutional
generalization concerning oral argument. In that view necessarily
the Act's specific terms, including, those of § 312 (b), sank into the
generalization's constitutional coloring. In that light, perhaps, the
majority's disclaimer and its ruling that WJR was entitled to come
in as a party bore semblance of consistency. But without the coloration, § 312 (b) identifies showing of modification with standing
as a party; and, unless this limitation is invalid for constitutional
reasons, it must be given effect.
16

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

As we have noted, Congress has required oral argument
expressly in proceedings heard initially before an examiner under § 409 (a). But no such requirement was made
by § 312 (b). While that section requires notice and
statement of grounds for any proposed order of modification before such order "shall become final," it does
not specify that further proceedings shall include the
right to oral argument; it requires only that the holder
of the outstanding license to be modified "shall have
been given reasonable opportunity to show cause why
such an order of modification should not issue" before
the order becomes final.
In view of the contrast between this language and
that of § 409 (a), it is hardly to be taken that Congress
intended the "reasonable opportunity to show cause"
always to include opportunity for oral argument. Indeed,
in the absence of any such explicit requirement as that
of § 409 (a), the terms of § 312 (b) must be read in the
light of the Act's general procedural authorization in
§ 4 (j), which empowers the Commission to "conduct its
proceedings in such manner as will best conduce to the
proper dispatch of business and to the ends of justice."
In this wording Congress was mindful not only of the
ends of justice but also of the proper dispatch of the Commission's business, a matter not unrelated to achieving
the ends of justice, and left largely to its judgment the
determination of the manner of conducting its business
which would most fairly and reasonably accommodate
those ends. Moreover it was dealing with substantive
interests involving the use, pursuant to federal license,
of channels of radio communication "but not the ownership thereof," § 301, as to which moreover the Act expressly provides that "no such license shall be construed
to create any right, beyond the terms, conditions, and
periods of the license." Ibid.

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. WJR.
265

283

Opinion of the Court.

In this connection it cannot be recalled too often that
"'public convenience, interest, or necessity' was the touchstone for the exercise of the Commission's authority" in
matters relating to construction permits and licensing, and
that this criterion "serves as a supple instrument for the
exercise of discretion by the expert body which Congress
has charged to carry out its legislative policy." Federal
Communications Commission v. Pottsville Broadcasting
Co., 309 U. S. 134, 137-138. "Necessarily, therefore, the
subordinate questions of procedure in ascertaining the
public interest, when the Commission's. licensing authority is invoked-the scope of the inquiry, whether
applications should be heard contemporaneously or successively, whether parties should be allowed to intervene
in one another's proceedings, and similar questions-were
explicitly and by implication left to the Commission's own
devising, so long, of course, as it observes the basic requirements designed for the protectin of private as well
as public interest." Id. at 138.
We need not go again over the ground which was covered by this decision and others. Suffice it to say that
the Commission has not seen fit to provide for oral argument in all such cases as this arising under § 312 (b); nor
is there any basis in the section or the Act for believing
that Congress intended to require it to do so. "Reasonable opportunity to show cause," as used in § 312 (b),
comprehends, in the light of § 4 (j) and this Court's
prior decisions, that the Commission shall have broad discretion in determining whether and when oral argument
shall be required or permitted, as it does with respect to
other procedural matters."
1

That is true even though § 4 (j) also provides that "Any party

may appear before the Commission and be heard in person or by
attorney." That provision does not nullify the Commission's discretion as to-the manner in which the "reasonable opportunity to

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

Respondent does not contend that it was denied any
opportunity to present for the Commission's consideration
any matter of fact or law in connection with its application or that the Commission has not given all matters
submitted by it due and full consideration. We cannot
say, in view of the statute and of the subject matter involved, that the Commission abused its discretion in hearing respondent's application on the written submission.'8
Accordingly we think it was error for the court to
decline to decide the merits of the question whether respondent's application stated a legally sufficient case of
(indirect) modification of its license within the terms of
§ 312 (b) as well as to decide, without determining that
question, that respondent was entitled to be made a party
to and participate as such in the Coastal Plains proceeding. As we have said, in the situation here presented,
the two forms of statement pose the same question in
substance, together with the further question, under the
KOA decision, whether respondent has standing to appeal as a party aggrieved. The statutory sequence identifies (1) a legally Sufficient claim of modification with
(2) right to'standing as a party and (3) right to appeal.
show cause" afforded by § 312 (b) shall be given. It'only assures
the right to participate "in person or by attorney" in the manner
reasonably found by the Commission to be appropriate.
8 Federal Rule 78, the terms of which were noted by the dissent
in the Court of Appeals, 174 F. 2d 226, 247, provides in part, as
to United States District Courts: "To expedite' its business, the.
court may make provision by rule or order for the -submission and
determination of motions without oral hearing upon brief written
statements of reasons in support and opposition." Fed. Rules Civ.
Proc., Rule 78. Similar notice may be taken of Rule 7 (2) of this
Court which, governing not only motion practice in appellate cases
but motions for leave to initiate original proceedings, provides in
part: "Oral argument will not be heard on any motion unless the
court specially assigns it thezefor .. . ."

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. WJR.
265

285

Opinion of the Court.

This threefold issue presents a question of law respondent is entitled to have determined. The dissenting judges
in the Court of Appeals considered the question insubstantial, because they thought, contrary to respondent's
position, that the Commission's Standards of Good Engineering Practice applied as a limitation upon respondent's license and therefore excluded it from protection
against interference such as respondent alleged, i. e., outside the contours prescribed by the Standards.
That question, being one of law, might now be decided
here. But since the statute, if it affords respondent a right
of appeal, provides- that it shall be to the Court of Appeals, and since that court has not decided the basic issue
on the merits, we think the cause should be remanded to
the Court of Appeals for decision of that question, uncomplicated by questions of constitutionality relating to the
Commission's procedure. Accordingly the court's decision
is reversed and the cause is remanded to it for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

