BARWISE v. SHEPPARD.
32

Syllabus.

Tax Act of 1935" (Iowa Code of 1935, c. 329 G-1). The
District Court, composed of three judges, held that the
provision of ยง 4 (b) of the btatute, imposing a tax based
on gross receipts from sales according to an accumulative
graduated scale, was invalid under the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States as creating an arbitrary discrimination. 12 F. Supp. 760. The case comes here
upon direct appeal from a final decree granting a permanent injunction. 28 U. S. C. 380.
The decree is affirmed upon the authority of Stewart
Dry Goods Co. v. Lewis, 294 U. S. 550.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS and MR.

JUSTICE

CARDOZO

dissent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no

part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
BARWISE ET AL., TRUSTEES, v. SHEPPARD, COMPTROLLER OF TEXAS, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, THIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF TEXAS.

No. 10.

Argued October 13, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

1. A state excise on the production of oil which extends to the

royalty interest of the lessor in the oil produced under an oil lease
as well as to the interest of the lessee engaged in the active work
of production, the tax being apportioned between these parties
according to their respective interests in the common venture, held
not arbitrary as regards the lessor, but consistent wit.h due
process. P. 36.
2. An oil lease imposing on the icssee tho obligation of delivering to
the credit of the lessor "free of cost" in the pipe line the equal
1 part of the oil prodyvced by the lessee, though it may intend that
the lessor shall be relieved of all taxes on production, is nevertheless

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

made in subordination to the power of the State to impose such
taxes and to apportion them between the parties in proportion to
their repective interests. P. 40.
3. The State's power thus to direct the incidence of the production
tax and shift part of its burden from lessee to lessor is not affected
by the fact that, by the law in force when the lease contract was
made, and for some years thereafter, the entire tax was on the
lessee. P. 41.
89 S..W. (2d) 1026, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment affirming a judgment in favor
of the Comptroller and the Treasurer of the State of
Texas, appellees herein, in a suit brought by the appellants to secure a refund of taxes paid under protest,
together with an injunction against collection of further
taxes in respect of the interests of the appellants, as
lessors, in the production of oil under an oil lease. The
Supreme Court of the State had declined to take the case
on a writ of error before it was appealed to this Court.
Mr. William R. Watkins for appellants.
Mr. William McCraw, Attorney General of Texas, with
whom Mr. H. Grady Chandler, Assistant Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the Court.

A statute of the State of Texas imposing a tax on the
production of oil is here challenged as violating the coiltract clause of the Constitution of the United States and
the due process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The appellants own lands from which oil is produced
under a lease given in 1925. The lease is in the usual
form of an oil lease; invests the lessee with the right to
explore for and produce oil; shows that the production
is to-be for the ntutual benefit of the lessor and lessee;

BARWISE v. SHEPPARD.
33

Opinion of the Court.

fixes the lessor's proportion, or royalty interest, at "the
equal 1/8 part of all oil produced"; and requires the lessee
to deliver that proportion to the lessor's credit, "free of
cost, in the pipe line" to which the wells are connected.
When the lease was given and up to 1933 a law of the
State imposed on the lessee alone, as the active producer,
a tax on all oil produced,' and that tax was paid and
borne by the lessee so long as that law remained in
force.
By an act of 1933 2 a substituted tax on oil production
was imposed with an accompanying provision that the
tax "shall be borne ratably by all interested parties including royalty interests" and with other provisions designed o secure prompt and certain payment of the full
tax as by charging the active producer, or the purchaser
of the oil where sold in the pipe line, with a primary
duty to pay the full tax, and authorizing and requiring
him to withhold from royalty or purchase money due interested parties the proportionate tax due from them.'
For about a year after the Act of 1933 became eff( ctive the purchaser of the oil produced under the lease paid
the full tax and deducted the appellants' proportion from
what was due to them on the purchase of their share of
the oil. The payment of this part of the tax was accompanied by written protests of the appellants , nd the
purchaser.
'Vernon's Ain. Tex. Stat., Art. 7071.
'Act 1933, Reg. Sess., c. 162, ยง 2, as amended by Act 1933, 1st
Called Sess., c. 12.
'Section 2. (3) provides: "The purehaser of oil shall pay the tax
on all oil purchased and deduct tax so paid from payment due producer or other interest holder. .. ."
And ยง 2 (6) fulrther provides: "The tax herein levied shall be
borne ratably by all interested parties, including royalty interests;
and producers and/or purchasers of oil are hereby authorized and
required to Withhold from any payment due interested parties, the
proportionate tax due."

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

The present suit was brought by the appellants against
the Comptroller and Treasurer of the State to secure a
refund of the taxes paid under protest and an injunction
against the collection of further taxes in respect of appellants' interest in the production. In the court of first
instance there was a decree for the defendants, which the
Court of Civil Appeals affirmed after sustaining the taxing act against appellants' before mentioned challenge to
its validity.' The Supreme Court of the State declined
to take the case on writ of error, and an appeal to this
Court was sought and allowed.
We come first to the contention that, as applied to the
appellants, who are not actively engaged in the production
of oil but are lessors having a royalty interest, the act is
an arbitrary fiat, in contravention of fundamental principles of private right and distributive justice, and therefore denies to appellants the due process of law guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The taxing act calls the tax an "occupation tax" and a
"gross production tax." The Court of Civil Appeals applies to it both of these designations, and also characterizes it as a "tax levied on the business or occupation of
producing oil." In discussing appellants' claim that they
are not engaged in such a business or occupation and that
the act nevertheless includes them among those on whom
the tax is laid, the court expresses the view that, for the
purposes of such a tax, "the legislature may validly declare the owners of royalty or other interests in the oil produced to be engaged in the occupation or business of producing oil." The designations applied to the tax and the
view just noticed are stressed by counsel for the appellants
and relied upon as supporting the contention that the
taxing act is essentially an arbitrary fiat.
But when mere characterizations of the tax are put
aside and attention is given to the substance of the court's
'89 S.W. (2d) 1026,

BARWISE v. SHEPPARD.
33

Opinion of the Court.

opinions in this and a companion case,5 it unmistakably
appears that the court regarded the. tax as an excise laid
on the production of oil, measured by the extent of the
production, and charged ratably against all who have an
interest in the oil produced. True, the court speaks.of
the tax as laid on the "occupation or business" of producing oil, but its opinions plainly show that these terms are
used in the sense of a "planned undertaking" or '.'mining
venture" and as comprehending all who have a direct and
beneficial interest in the oil being produced, whether they
be owners, conducting oil operations on their own lands,
or lessees operating under leases trom owners and shar
ing the oil with the latter, or owners who have leased
their lands for oil operations and share the oil with the
lessees. As illustrating the actual decision and the reasons
underlying it we quote from the opinions:
"The legislative intent to levy the tax ratably against
all interested parties in the oil produced is also clearly
evidenced by the language that 'the purchaser of oil
shall pay the tax on all oil purchased and deduct tax so
paid from payment due producer or other interest holder,'
and 'withhold from any payments due interested parties,
the proportionate tax due.' These provisions do not levy
the tax against the purchaser. He is merely made the
agent of the State to collect from the producer or other
interest holders the' total amount of the tax due; and
he is authorized to charge their respective accounts with
'the proportionate tax due.' That is, the purchaser withholds from the producer only as an interest holder and
only to the extent of his interest. Likewise the purchaser withholds from other royalty or interest holders
the amount of the tax due on their royalty or other interests. The Act, therefore, designates the parties against
whom the tax is levied. The amount of the tax due by
Group No. 1 Oil Corp. v. Sheppard, 89 S. W. (2d) 1021

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U.S.

each is also defined or measured by the extent of interest
in the oil produced, or the amount paid because it was
produced."
"It is also manifest that the tax is not depeident upon
the character of title under which the producer produces
the oil. - Nor is the tax levied on the oil in place. The
tax is levied on the business or occupation of prpducing
the oil."
"The ordinary form of oil lease has a dual character or
purpose: (1) the conveyance of an estate in the land for
development purposes; and, (2) the future development
and operation of the lease for oil in accordance with the
terms, express and- implied, of the contract for the mutual benefit of the parties, their respective benefit being
measured by the extent of their:interests in the oil produced, or its value. The law is settled that the primary
objective or purpose of the oil lease is the production of
oil for the mutual profit of the parties. The consideration moving to the lessor is an interest in the oil or its
value in money. Thus he has a direct interest in the
success of the business. As the holder of the royalty
interest the lessor or royalty owner is not only entitled to
share in the gross production of the oil, but may under
the terms of the lease, expressed or implied, require
proper, prudent and diligent management and development of the business, and has reserved and is entitled
to both legal and equitable renledies necessary to enforce
the obligations of the lease, and under some circumstances may forfeit the lease for nondevelopment."
And the court quoted the following from a decision of
the Supreme Court of New Mexico :'
6

Flynn, Welch & Yates, Inc. v. State Tax Comm'n, 3S N. A. 131;

28 P. (2d) 889, 892.

BARWISE v. SHEPPARD.
33

Opinion of the Court.

"Our minds do not reject. the idea that the lessee and
the royalty owner, considered as participating in a joint
enterprise, are both engaged in the business of producing
or severing oil, and that the tax is therefore essentially
occupational. Such a view, however, is not indispensable
to sustaining the tax. For it may be considered occupational as to the lessee and another kind of tax to the royalty owner. Unless found as to one or the other to be a
iax upon tangible property, it. need not be levied ad
valorem, and is an excise."
In view of this exposition of the purpose and meaning
of the act, we are of opinion that it is liot an arbitrary
fiat and does not infringe the due process of law clause of
the )Fourteehth Amendment.
While operations under the lease are carried on by the
lessee and not .by .the lessors, they nevertheless are -carried on in virtue of the lease, that is to say, under stipulations made between the lessors and the lessee. The lease
shows that the parties to it -are, in a very practical sense,
committed to and engaged in a common venture for their
mutual benefit. The lessors have put into the venture
their right to explore for and to extract the oil under their
lands, and the lessee has put into it various drilling and
pumping appliances and- much expense, labor, and time.
All that has. been put in is devoted to the common purpose of producing oil in which the lessors and the lessee
are to have-stated interests. It is this production that is
taxed against thelessprs and the.lessee according to their
respective interests.
Without question the State has power to lay an excise
on the production of. oil. Here it is laid, admissibly we
think, on those having a direct and beneficial interest in
the oil produced' and is apportioned between them according to their interests. The apportionment ig reasonable,
not arbitrary; and is as reasonable to the lessors as to the
lessee.

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the COuit.

299 U. S.

We come next to the contention that the act, in so far
as it imposes the tax on the appellants, impairs the obligation of their contract with the lessee whereby he agrees
to deliver to their credit, "free of cost," in the pipe line,
the equal 1/s part of the oil produced. The lease contains
no mention of taxes or of their payment. It well may be
that when rightly construed, the engagement to deliver,
free of cost, refers to expenses incurred in producing the
oil and conducting it to the pipe line, and is not intended
to include governmental exactions, such as a tax. This
would appear to be an admissible if not a necessary construction of that engagement. But, be this as it may,
the lease was made in subordination to the power of the
State to tax the production of oil and to apportion the
tax between the lessors and the lessee. The taxing act
does not purport to reach or affect any term of the lease.
Plainly no stipulation in the lease can be of any avail as
against the power of the State to impose the tax, prescribe who shall be under a duty to the State to pay it,
and fix the time and mode of payment. And this is true
even though it be assumed to be admissible for the lessors
and lessee to stipulate as to who, as between themselves,
shall ultimately bear the tax. These views are but a reiteration and application of what repeatedly has been held
in respect of contracts and their subordination to the taxing power.'
It is true that the law in force when the lease was made
and for some years thereafter laid a production tax on
the lessee alone, and it is equally true that under the act
'Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514, 562; North Missouri R.
Co. v. Maguire, 20 Wall. 46, 61; Moffitt v. Kelly, 218 U. S. 400, 403;
Henderson Bridge Co. v. Henderson City, 173 U. S. 592, 619-620;
Chanler v. Kelsey, 205 U. S. 466, 478-479; Kehrer v. Stewart, 197

U. S. 60, 70; Clement Nationai Bank v. Vermont, 231 U. S. 120,
143; Lake Supcrior Consolidated Iron Mines v. Lord, 271 U. S
577, 581.

CARLIN CONST. CO. v. HEANEY.
Statement of the Case.

33

of 1933 a part of the tax is imposed on the lessors and the
part imposed on the lessee is less than what would fall
on him under the earlier law. But the State's power in
the matter was in no way circumscribed by the earlier
law. That law was subject to change at any time through
a further exertion of the taxing power; and the lease presented no obstacle to such a change.
It follows that appellants' reliance on the contract
clause of the Constitution is ill-grounded.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

P. J. CARLIN CONSTRUCTION CO.

ET AL. V.

HEANEY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 9.

Argued October 13, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

A company constructing a building on anisland in navigable waters
in New York, engaged the owner of a steamboat to ferry its workmen to and from the island. The shipowner was to collect specified fares from the workmen ferried. If, in any day, the collections
were less than a specified amount, the company would make up
the difference to the shipowner; if they exceeded it, the excess
would be paid over to the company up to the point of reimbursing
it for its payments in meeting such deficiencies. One of the workmen, while being so ferried, was injured by an explosion on the
hi).
Held that an award of compensation against the company and
its insurance carrier tinder the New York Wormen's Compensation Act was not invalid as an intrusion rlor. tie maritime
jurisdiction. P. 44.
269 N. Y. 93, affirined.
CERTI(MIAHI,

29S 1. S. 637, to reAV: ,, a jut 1 , int

Court of Appeals of _New York which aTrme(I

of the

judgment

