BROWN LUMBER CO. v. L. & N.. R.. CO.-

393

Syllabus.

W. P. BROWN &SONS LUMBER CO. ET AL. V. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 100. Argued December 8, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.
1. Where the language of a railroad freight tariff is non-technical,
clear and unambiguous, its construction presents a question of
law, not differing in character from that presented when the construction of any other document is in dispute. P. 397.
2. The so-called "combination rule" in railroad freight tariffs provides that, "where no published through rates are in effect from
point of origin to destination" on certain commodities in carload
lots, and two or more commodity rate factors are used in arriving
at the through rate for a continuous rail shipment thereof, such
through rate will be arrived at by a formula therein prescribed.
Held, inapplicable where there was available some through route
from point of origin to destination, for which joint through rates
had been published, although there was no joint through rate from
point of origin to destination over the route used. P. 397.
3. A contrary construction given to the rule by the Interstate Commerce Commission is not conclusive. P. 397.
4. Shippers whose claim of reparation for alleged overcharges depends solely upon the non-technical, unambiguous language of a
tariff, may sue at law without first applying to the Commission for
a reparation order. P. 398.
5. The fact that the carriers, in an earlier proceeding before the
Commission, sought unsuccesfully to have the rule modified so as
to overcome the interpretation given it by the Commission, and
were thus left remediless by administrative action, does not estop
them from insisting in the courts upon the construction for which
they had contended. P. 399.
6. The fact that the Commission has long construed the combination rule as it did in the case at bar, and that that construction
was acquiesced in by many carriers, is not controlling,-it appearing that other carriers had protested vigorously and persistently.
P. 399.
7. That many existing routes may be commercially closed if application of the combination rule is denied, because the combination

394

OCTOBER TERM 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

rates unaffected by the rule would be prohibitively high, held
irrelevant to the question for decision in this case. P. 400.
82 F. (2d) 94, affirmed.

CE@RTIORARI' to review a judgment which affirmed a
judgment, 7 F. Supp. 593 dismissing upon demurrer a
suit against numerous railroad companies upon an award
of reparation of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. J. V. Norman for petitioners.
Mr Elmer A. Smith, with whom Mr. J. Blakey Helm
was on the brief, for respondents.
I MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
W. P. Brown & Sons Lumber Co. and other shippers
brought in the Interstate Commerce Commission a complaint undr ยง 16 of the Interstate Commerce Act, seeking reparation for alleged overcharges on shipments of
lumber and other forest products taking lumber rates.
They wert awarded damages in the proceedings known as
Wausau Southern Lumber Co. v. Alabama Great Southern
R. Co., 142 1. C. C. 521; 182 I. C. C. 731. The Louisville
& Nashville Railroad and some other carriers refused to
comply with the order. Then this suit was brought in the
federal court for western Kentucky to recover the amounts
awarded against them. The case was heard on demurrers
to the amended petition and to certain paragraphs of the
amended answer, The demurrer to the petition was sustained, and that to the answer overruled, on the ground
that the award was founded upon an erroneous construction of the-so-called "Jones" or "Combination Rule" in
the. tariffs. The parties declining to plead further, judgment was entered dismissing the petition, 7 F. Supp. 593.
*See

Table of Cases RepQrted in this volume.

BROWN LUMBER CO. v. L. & N. R. CO.
393

395

Opinion of the Court.

That judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 82 F. (2d) 94. We granted certiorari because of
conflict with the decision of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia in Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Domestic Hardwoods, Inc., 62 App. D. C. 142; 65 F. (2d)
488.
The shipments involved were from points in the South
and Southwest to points North. For such shipments
there have long been, commonly available over connecting lines more than one, and often many, through routes
from each point of origin to destination. The Interstate
Commerce Act does not require that the rates on all
routes shall be the same. Nor does it require that there
be on each route a joint through rate. Sometimes, none
of the tariffs for the several available routes specifies a
joint through rate. Where no joint rate is specified, the
tariffs for the through routes commonly provide that the
through rate shall be the sum of the local rates of the
several carriers contributing to the movement.1 In 1918,
the Director General of Railroads made, by General
Order No. 28, a percentage increase of lumber rates in'
southern territory, limited to 5 cents per 100 pounds.
Thus, a joint through rate could not be increased more
than 5 cents. But when the lumber moved .on a combination through rate, the 5-cent limit was applied to each
factor in the cOmbination. The result was that on combination through routes the increase was often doubled,
or tripled. To avoid such a result, the so-called "Jones"
1 Section

6, (1) of the Interstate Commerce Act provides: "If no

joint rate over the through route has been established, the several
[connecting] carriers in such through route shall file, print, and keep
open to public inspection as aforesaid, the separately established

rates, fares, and charges applied to the through transportation."
Concerning through rates, see St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co.. v.
United States, 245 U. S. 136. 139, 140, note 2.

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

or "Combination Rule" was devised in February, 1919.
Ever since, it has been commonly incorporated in tariffs.2
The question for decision is whether the "Combination
Rule" applies to the shipments here involved. If it does
not, there is no cause of action. If it does, the award was
correct. The rule provides:
"Where no published through rates are in effect from
carloads,
,
point of origin to destination on lumber
used in
.
.
.
are
rate
factors
commodity
and two or more
arriving at the through rate for a continuous rail shipment thereof, such through rate will be arrived at in the
following manner: . . . " [Then follows a formula.]
When applied to the combination rate specified in the
tariff, the formula effects a reduction thereof. While the
combination rate itself is ordinarily, if not always, higher
than the joint through rate, the effect of applying to it
the Combination Rule would not necessarily produce
equality in rates on the several routes. It might make
the combination through rate lower than the published
joint through rate. This is true as to many of the shipments here involved. The amended answer gave an example: Laurel, Mississippi, is a tylical lumber shipping
point; and Columbus, Ohio, a typical destination. The
published through joint rate from Laurel to Columbus,
applying via each of the several originating carriers at
that point, was 43 cents per 100 poupds. A combination
'B. T. Jones' Tariff 228, I. C. C. U. S. 1, ยง 4. In Wausau Southern Lumber Co. v. Alabama Great Southern R. Co., 142 I. C. C.
521, 524, the Commission states: "The combination rule was originally published by the director general about seven months after the
issuance of General Order No. 28, as an emergency tariff provision
to avoid a double increase on certain commodities moving on combination rates, the separate factors of which had been increased by
specific amounts. Shortly after the general increase of 1920 the rule
was amended substantially to reflect the increases then authorized.
It was subsequently further amended to reflect the general reduction
of 1922, and is still in effect."

BROWN LUMBER'CO. v. L. & N. R. CO.
393

397

Opinion of the Court.

rate for the movement over other routes, unaffected by
the Combination Rule, was 431/2 cents. If the combination rate were subjected to the Combination Rule, the
rate over the combination route would be 401/2 cents.
Thus the combination rate would be much less than the
published joint through rate.
Each of these shipments here involved might have been
made over a route for which a joint through rate from
point of origin to destination had been published. Instead, the shipment was made over a route for which the
rate specified in the tariff was a combination rate. In
some instances the route had been designated by the
shipper.' The carriers exacted the full combination rate.
The shippers made reclamation, on the ground that the
Combination Rule applies in-every case where no joint
through rate has been published over the route selected
for the movement. The Commission sustained the shippers' claim.
First. The rule declares that the prescribed formula is
to be applied "where no published through rates are in
effect from point of origin to destination." The language
used is not technical. The meaning of the words is clear.
There is no ambiguity. The construction of these railroad tariffs presents, therefore, a question of law, not
differing in character from those presented when the construction of any other document is in dispute. Great
Northern Ry. Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259 U. S.
285, 291. As, in each instance, there was available some
through route from point of origin to destination for
'In some instances the claim rests upon a charge of misrouting.
That is, the route not having been designated by the shipper, it was
the duty of the initial carrier to select the route over which the
rate was lowest. Compare Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Solum, 247
U. S. 477, 482. The carrier did not fail in that duty ifnless the
Combination Rule applied. That is, there was no misrouting if the
Commission's construction was erroneous.

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

which joint through rates had been published, the rule,
4y its terms, has no application. We so hold despite the
construction given to the rule by the Commission.
Second. The shippers contend that the construction given
to the rule by the Commission is conclusive, because preliminary resort to the Commission was necessary. Texas
& Pacific Ry. Co. v. American Tie & Timber Co., 234
U. S. 138; Loomis v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 240 U. S. 43;
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Solum, 247 U. S. 477. They
argue that such preliminary resort was necessary, since
the interpretation and' application of the rule involved
(a) the exercise of sound administrative discretion as t?
technical and intricate matters of tariff application and
the relation of tariffs one to another; (b) the reasonableness of a practice of routing as between higher and lowerrated routes, and (c) uniformity in the application of
rates, which is the paramount purpose of the Interstate
Commerce Act. But the argument is not sound. To determine whether the rule was applicable to the several
shipments does not call for, or indeed permit, the consideration of any of these matters. The simple question for
decision, as to each shipment, is whether there existed
"published through rates" "in effect from point of origin
to destination." The determination of that question requires ordinarily merely the examination of the tariffs.'
The enquiry would, in all respects, be like that commonly
made by courts when called upon to construe and apply
any other document. This is not a case like Standard Oil
Co. (Indiana) v. United States, 283 U. S' 235, 238, 239,
where there was required "consideration of matters of fact
and the application of expert knowledge 'for the ascertainment of the technical meaning of the words and a coTrect
'Compare Hohenberg v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 46 F. (2d)
952, 955; Wheelock v. Walsh Fire Clay Products Co., 60 F. (2d)
415, 418; Hygrade Food Products Corp. v. Chicago, Milwaukee, St.
Paul & Pacific R. Co., 85 F. (2d) 113, 116.

BROWN LUMBER CO. v. L. & N. R. CO.
393

399

Opinion of the Court.

appreciation of a variety of incidents affecting their use."
Here, the shippers might have brought their action at law
without resort to the Commission.
Third. The shippers urge that the carriers are estopped
from contesting the interpretation given by the Commission to the Combination Rule, because in Cancellation
Rule for Constructing Combination Rates on Lumber,
811. C. C. 745, decided by Division 3 in August, 1923, and
affirmed on reargument before the full Commission December 2, 1924, in 93 I. C. C. 614, the carriers vainly
sought to have the rule modified so as to overcome the
construction given by the Commission. The denial of
their application left them remediless by administrative
action; but that action in no way prejudiced their right
to insist in the courts upon the construction of the rule
for which they had contended.
Fourth.The shippers urge that the interpretation- given
by the Commission should be followed by the Court, because it embodies the settled administrative construction
acquiesced in by carriers and shippers. It is true that the
Commission has repeatedly declared its adherence to the
construction for which the shippers contend. Many carriers acquiesced in that construction, in part possibly, because they preferred to take the lesser amount -rather
than risk losing the traffic. But the cases cited show that
other carriers protested vigorously; and their protests
have been persistent.'
'Compare Cancellation Rule for Constructing Combination Rates
on.Lumber, 811. C. C. 745; 93 I. C. C. 614; McGowin-Foshee Lumber Co. v. A., F. & G. Ry. Co., 95 I. C. C. 451; Moore-Marshall
Lumber Co. v. New Orleans & Northeastern R. Co., 112 I. C. C. 33;
1AI. H. Gunther & Co. v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 112 I. C. C.
387; Milne Lumber Co. v. New York Central R. Co., 152 I. C. C.
65; Held v. Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co., 161 I. C. C. 413;
Edwar Eiler Lumber Co. v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., 161 I. C. C.
415; Domestic Hardwoods, Inc. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 16S
I. C. C. 753: Brabston v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 176 I. C. ,.
421.

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Fifth. The shippers urge, in support of the Commission's construction, that if application of the Combination Rule is denied, many existing routes, although
remaining legally open, .will be commercially closed,
(compare Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S.
658, 661), because the combination rates, if not reduced
by the Combination Rule would be prohibitively high.
Such considerations have no place here, where the sole
question for decision is whether there exists a joint
through rate over some route between the point of origin
and destination. If the route to which alone the joint
through rate applies is deemed inadequate, there is ample
power in the Commission to establish by proceedings
under Paragraph 3 of ยง 15 of the Act other through
routes with joint rates.' Likewise, if the rates on the
combination routes are deemed excessive, or discriminatory, there is ample 'power in the Commission, under
other provisions of the Act, to reduce the rates.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
'The rule had little application until 1920 when large rate increases were authorized by Ex parte 74, 58 1. C. C. 220.

