302

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

In order to support its contention, complainant seeks
to capitalize its earnings and thus to arrive at the value
of the part of the business affected by the order. But that
basis of ascertaining a capital loss is not available to
complainant here, as the statute, and with it the order,
expire by limitation on July 1, 1937. The hurt by reason
of the regulation does not appear to be greater than the
loss sustained while the statute is in operation. The
decree of the District Court is

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

KAMMERER ET AL. v. KROEGER, SUPERINTENDENT OF BUILDING AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS

OF OHIO,

ET AL.*

.APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 522.

Motion to dismiss distributed November 28, 1936.Decided December 21, 1936.

The question whethir the Court of Common Pleas, of Ohio, in a
proceeding to liquidate a building and loan association, had jurisdiction under the laws of that State, to entertain applications by
shareholders for ieimbursement out of the assets of the association
for counsel fees and expenses incurred by them in litigation which
they had successfully conducted for the protection of the assets
in behalf of themselves and the other shareholders,-held a question
of state practice and remedy not involving any right under the
Federal Constitution.
Appeals from 131 Ohio St. 330; 2 N. E. (2d) 823, dismissed.
* Together with No. 523, Wuist et al. v. Kroeger et al.; No. 524,

Fischer et al. v. Kroeger et al.; No. 525, Cotterill et al. v. Kroeger
et al.; No. 526, Kelsey et al. v. Kroeger et al.; No. 527, Kimmel
et al. v. Kroeger et al.; and No. 528, Reichert et al. v. Kroeger et al.
Appeals from the Supreme Court of Ohio.

KAMMERER v. KROEGER.
302

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John W. Bricker, Attorney General of Ohio, filed
a brief in support of the motion to dismiss.
Messrs. Gilbert Bettman and W. S. McConnaughey
were on the brief for appellants in opposition to the
motion to dismiss.
PER CURIAM.

These seven appeals present the same question. Under
§§ 687 to 687-23, 115 Ohio Laws 3, § 1, et seq., effective
February 27, 1933, the Superintendent of Building and
Loan Associations of the State of Ohio took possession
of the assets of the above-mentioned associations, respectively, for the purpose of liquidation. The Superintendent sought authority to borrow money from the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation to pay off claims alleged to be prior to the shareholders' claims against such
associations and to pledge the assets as security. Appellant shareholders, on behalf of all the shareholders of the
respective associations, through their counsel, successfully
opposed the Superintendent's applications. Thereupon
appellants filed applications for the allowance of their
counsel fees and expenses out of the assets of the associations. The Common Pleas Court of Montgomery County,
on motion of the Superintendent, struck these applications from the files upon the ground that under the Ohio
statutes the court did not have jurisdiction to consider
or allow such fees. Motions for new trial and rehearing
were overruled. The Court of Appeals of Montgomery
County sustained the ruling of the Court of Common
Pleas. Appellants then appealed as of right to the Supreme Court of Ohio and that court dismissed the appeals on the ground that "no debatable constitutional
question" was involved. 131 0. S. 330; 2 N. E. (2d) 823.
We find no basis for the contention that in denying
appellants' claim to be paid-their counsel fees and ex-

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

penses out of the assets in the hands of the liquidator,
upon the ground that the court was without jurisdiction
to make such an allowance, any right of the appellants
inder the Federal Constitution has been infringed. The
question is one of state practice and remedy. The motions to dismiss the appeals are granted and the appeals
are dismissed for the want of a substantial federal question. Iowa Central Ry. Co. v. Iowa, 160 U. S. 389, 393;
Standard Oil Co. v. Missouri, 224 U. S. 270, 280, 281;
McDonald v. Oregon Navigation Co., 233 U. S. 665, 669,
670; Gasquet v. Lapeyre, 242 U. S. 367, 369, 370; Enterprise IrrigationDistrict v. Canal Co., 243 U. S. 157, 166.
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. CURTISS-WRIGHT EXPORT

CORP.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 98. Argued November 19, 20, 1936.-Decided December 21, 1936.
A Joint Resolution of May 28, 1934, provided: "That ii the
President finds that the prohibition of the sale of arms and munitions of war in the United States to those countries now engaged
in armed conflict in the Chaco may coL pibute to the regstablishment of peace between those countries, and if after consultation
with the governments of other American Republics and with their
cobperation, as well as that of such other governments as he may
deem necessary, he makes proclamation to that effect, it shall be
unlawful to sell, except under such limitations and exceptions as
the President prescribes, any arms or munitions of war in any
place in the United States to the countries now engaged in that
armed conflict, or to any person, company, or association acting
in the interest of either country, until otherwise ordered by the
President or by Congress." Violation was made punishable as a

