464

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

MEADOWS v. IRVING TRUST CO., TRUSTEE IN
BANKRUPTCY, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 151.

Argued December 15, 16, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.

1. Landlord's claim for injury due to rejection of lease by trustee
in bankruptcy, preserved by saving clause limiting release.
Schwartz v. Irving Trust Co., ante, p. 456.' P. 4,65.
2. Although the claim of a landlord, in reorganization proceedings
under ยง 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, for injury due to the trustee's
rejection of the lease, is not barred by the surrender of the
premises by the trustee, the acceptance thereof by the landlord
and the assignment of the lease to a new tenant nominated by the
landlord, no such claim exists where, by the terms of the lease
itself all liability of the lessee under it was terminated by the
assignment gnd its accompaniments. P. 466.
83 F. (2d) 207, affirmed.
CERTIORARI*

to review a judgment of the Circuit Court

of Appeals which affirmed an order of the District Court,
rejecting part of a claim of a landlord for injury due to
rejection of the lease by the trustee in bankruptcy.
Mr. Perlie P. Fallon for petitioner.
Mr. William D. Whitney, with whom Mr. R. L. Gilpatric was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioner's claim, under ยง 77B of the Bankruptcy
Act, for injury due to the rejection of a lease by the, respondent trustee, was denied by the District Court, and
its action was affirmed by the. Circuit Courts of Appeals 1
*See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.
183 F. (2d) 207,

MEADOWS v. IRVING TRUST CO.
464

Opinion of the Court.

upon a ground similar to that upon which it based its
decision in Schwartz v. Irving Trust Co., ante, p. 456.
In 1922 the petitioner leased premises in Lincoln,
Nebraska, to the United Company for ninety-naine years.
The lessee agreed to pay an annual rent, taxes and insurance, and by July 1, 1942, to demolish the existing
building and erect a new four-story structure. When in
August 1932 the United Company was adjudicated a
voluntary bankrupt it was occupying a store on the demised premises and subletting the remaining space. The
trustee obtained leave of court either to reject the lease
or to assign it to the petitioner or her nominee. The
petitioner elected to have it assigned to a nominee and
this was done by agreement dated in December 1932 in
which the United Company joined. The petitioner made
a new lease to her nominee for a shorter term and at a
reduced rental and with no obligation for replacement
of the existing building. The agreement between the
landlord on the one hand, and the trustee and the bankrupt on the other, provided for the turning over to the
landlord's assignee the subleases, the rents which had accrued or would accrue thereunder from the date of the
adjudication, and the insufance. The petitioner agreed
to assume all existing and future obligations of the United
Company under the lease and released the trustee, the
bankrupt, and the bankrupt estate, from all claims with
respect. to the lease except that petitioner did not waive
"the right to prove against the bankrupt estate any provable claims to which the bankruptcy court may adjudge
the landlord is entitled." In the bankruptcy proceeding the petitioner filed claims for taxes and cost of repairs, liability for which had accrued prior to the bankruptcy, for unliquidated damages resulting from loss of
future rent and from anticipatory breach of the covenant
to build in 1942. After the institution of a 77B pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

ceeding by the United Company the petitioner refiled the
same claims therein. The items for accrued taxes and
cost of repairs are not in dispute. The trustee objected
to the claim for loss of future rent and for anticipatory
breach of the covenant to build in 1942. A special master recommended the allowance of the amount of the
taxes and repairs and the disallowance of the balance of
the claim. Upon appeal, a majority of the Circuit Court
of Appeals held that although the trustee had decided to
reject the lease and had filed a petition for leave so to
do, or to assign, as the claimant had elected to have the
lease assigned and had accepted surrender of the premises by requesting assignment to her nominee without reserving any rights under the lease against the debtor,
there was no basis under ยง 77B for allowance of the claim.
One judge concurred, holding that the qualification of the
release left the way open for proof of any claim permitted
by the lease itself and the provisions of 77B, but that no
claim for future rent could be sustained because of a
provision in the lease to the effect that, if defaut should
occur, transfer of the lessee's interest in the demised
premises together with all improvements thereon, all
rents, issues, and profits accrued or to accrue, and all insurance policies upon the buildings and improvements,
without compensation therefor to the lessee should constitute full satisfaction of the 'lessor's rights under the,,
lease and the transfer thereof should not be considered as
a penalty but as liquidating the damages suffered by the
termination of the lease. We think that the decree of
he Circuit Court of Appeals was right for the reasons
:ated in the concurring opinion.
But for the clause stipulating that a transfer by the
tenant to the landlord of the demised premises and other
things mentioned should terminate the tenant's liability
under the lease, the petitioner would have had a provable

MEADOWS v. IRVING TRUST CO.
464

Opinion of the Court.

claim.2 The surrender of the premises by the trustee, the
acceptance thereof, and the assignment of the lease to a
new tenant nominated by the petitioner, whatever may
have been their effect under state law, would not bar any
claim which she had by force of ยง 77B for injury due to
the trustee's rejection of the lease.3 The landlord's release would likewise have been ineffective to prevent the
proving of a claim for injury due to the rejection since the
reservation in it was broad enough to save any claim provable under the Section.4 The petitioner would, therefore,
have had a provable claim except for the terms of her
own lease contract by which she had stipulated that, upon
termination of the lease, the transfer of the demised
premises and certain other things to her, all of which admittedly were transferred to her nominee upon the trustee's rejection of the lease, should be full satisfaction of
any damage due to the lessee's default. We have held in
Schwartz v. Irving Trust Co., ante, p. 456, that a landlord
is bound by his release of the tenant and the trustee for a
consideration moving to him, and it is immaterial
whether such a release be executed after default or constitute a part of the lease contract. The decree is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE STONE took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.
2

City Bank Farmers Trust Co. v. Irving Trust Co., ante, p. 433.

Schwartz v. Irving Trust Co., ante, p. 456.
'City Bank Farmers Trust Co. v. Irving Trust Co., supra.

'Schwartz v. Irving Trust Co., supra.

