CARLIN CONST. CO. v. HEANEY.
Statement of the Case.

33

of 1933 a part of the tax is imposed on the lessors and the
part imposed on the lessee is less than what would fall
on him under the earlier law. But the State's power in
the matter was in no way circumscribed by the earlier
law. That law was subject to change at any time through
a further exertion of the taxing power; and the lease presented no obstacle to such a change.
It follows that appellants' reliance on the contract
clause of the Constitution is ill-grounded.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

P. J. CARLIN CONSTRUCTION CO.

ET AL. V.

HEANEY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 9.

Argued October 13, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

A company constructing a building on anisland in navigable waters
in New York, engaged the owner of a steamboat to ferry its workmen to and from the island. The shipowner was to collect specified fares from the workmen ferried. If, in any day, the collections
were less than a specified amount, the company would make up
the difference to the shipowner; if they exceeded it, the excess
would be paid over to the company up to the point of reimbursing
it for its payments in meeting such deficiencies. One of the workmen, while being so ferried, was injured by an explosion on the
hi).
Held that an award of compensation against the company and
its insurance carrier tinder the New York Wormen's Compensation Act was not invalid as an intrusion rlor. tie maritime
jurisdiction. P. 44.
269 N. Y. 93, affirined.
CERTI(MIAHI,

29S 1. S. 637, to reAV: ,, a jut 1 , int

Court of Appeals of _New York which aTrme(I

of the

judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.

42

Opinion of the Court.

299 1U. S.

of the Supreme Court, Appellate Division, of the State
(243 App. Div. 648, no opinion), sustaining an award
of workmen's compen'sation.
Mr. Elmer C. Sherwood for petitioners.
Mr. Henry Epstein, Solicitor General of New York,
with whom Mr. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney General,
and Messrs. Joseph A. McLaughlin and Roy Wiedersum,
Assistant Attorneys General, were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR,JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Seeking an award for injuries received in the course of
his employment respondent, Heaney, instituted this proc, ding before the New York State Industrial Board
against his employer, P. J. Carlin Construction Company,
and its insurance carrier, The Travelers Insurance Company, petitioners here.' The Board granted an award;
the Appellate Division and the Court of Appeals
approved.
In September' 1932, the Construction Company, general contractor with principal place of business in New
York City, was engaged in building operations on Rikers
Island in East River. Respondent and others employed
about the work crossed daily from New York City ,onthe
"Observation," a steamboat owned by Captain Forsythe.
They paid for this service.
The owner operated the vessel in pursuance of an agreement with the Construction Company which provided:
"You are hereby licensed to operate a ferry service for
the transportation of the men engaged upon the construction of the Rikers Island Penitentiary Building."
"You are to be compensated therefor by collecting fares
from the men at the rate of 10 0 a round trip. In the
event that your fares dn-not reach the sum of $60.00

CARLIN CONST. CO. v. HEANEY.
41

OpiniOn of the Court.

upon any given day, we shall reimburse you for the
difference. Where your fares exceed $60.00 a day, you
wi]l pay the excess to us up to a point where we are reinibLU'sed for any monies paid to you by us under this
license." "We lnderstand that your boat is warranted
to be in first cla:s condition, with all necessary permits to
operate in thi scrvice."
Septeinler 9, 1932, while on her way to Rikers Island
with Ieaney on board, a violent explosion wrecked the
"Observation."
Ie and many others were seriously
injured.
Counsel for petitioners challenged the Board's jurisdiction upon the ground that as the accident occurred on
navigable waters the rights anct obligations of the parties
were fixed by the maritime law. They also maintained
that Hleaney was not employed when injured.
The Board found: "Heaney stepped into his employment the moment he stepped aboard the said steamboat."
"Such transportation by means of the steamship 'Observation' was included within and was part of the contract
of employment between P. J. Carlin Construction Co., the
employer herein, and Edward Heaney, the claimant, and
was an incident of the claimant's employment. At the
time Edward Heaney sustained the accidental injuries . . . the status of the claimant and the employer
herein was a matter of local concern, was subject to the
regulation of the State and in no way worked prejudice
to any characteristic feature of the General Maritime
Law. The claim . . . is within the jurisdiction of the
Industrial Board and not such a matter as, is subject to
the exclusive jurisdiction of the Admiralty Law. This
claim comes within the provisions of the Workmen's
Compensation Law."
Without contesting the Board's finding in respect of
employment, petitioners maintain here that the rights
and obligations of the parties must be determined under

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

the maritime law and the State Compensation Act has no
application. Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S.
149, Spencer Kellogg & Sons N. Hicks, 285 U. S. 502, and
kindred cases which hold that hie rules of maritime law
control rights and liabilities ni sing out of torts upon
navigable waters are relied upona.
But as the Court of Appeals has pointed out: "No
recovery is sought against the employer in this case because of any wrong alleged to have been clone by the
employer. A recovery is sought as the result of injuries
for which the statute, read into the contract, gives a right
to recovery." "An award under the Workmen's Compensation Law is not made on the theory that a tort has
been committed; on the contrary, it is upon the theory
that the statute giving the commission power to make an
award is read into and becomes a part of the contract.. ." See Post v. Burger & Gohlke, 216 N. Y. 544;
111 N. E. 351; Doey v. Howland Co., 224 N. Y. 30; 120
N. E. 53; also State Industrial Comm'n v. Nordenholt
Corporation,259 U. S. 263, 271.
This Court has often ruled that the maritime law cannot be modified by state enactments so as materially to
interfere with its essential uniformity State Industrial
Conin'r v. Nordenholt Corporatin, supra. But this
doctrine, we think has no applieation in the circumstances
here presented. The present attempt is to enforce a liabilfty assumed by employer and insurance carrier under
a non-ma i tirnn coutract. All parties, as well as the accident, were withiki the limits of New York State. The
contract had no direct relation to navigation; to enforce
it against the parties before us will not materially interfere with the unit'oraity of any maritime rule. There is
no claim against the ship or her owncr; their rights are
not in issue.
Spencer Kellogg & Sons v. Hicks, supra, does not support petitioners' position. There the vessel's owner was

SOLER & CO. v. INSURANCE CO.
Counsel for Parties.

41

held liable for injuries received on navigable waters in
consequence of the master's negligence. The respondent
here seeks to enforce a contract of employment which had
no direct and immediate relation to navigation, business
or commerce of the sea. North Pacific Steamship Co. v.
Hall Bros. Marine Railway & Shipbuilding Co., 249 U. S.
119, 125; Benedict on Admiralty (5th ed.) ยง 63.
The court below reached the correct conclusion, and
its judgment must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part'in the consideration
or decision of this case.
JOSE RIVERA SOLER & CO. v. UNITED FIREMEN'S INSURANCE COMPANY OF PHILADELPIIIA.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 31.

krgued October 20, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

The mere facis tht he amount claimed in a proof of loss under a
fir( iu1suracc1 p)olicy greatly exceeded the amount allowed by the
jurv inthe Irial of the case and tlai one of the items claimed was
not .-u)l)orted by any evidence do not give rise to a conclusive
t)re,umption of fraud. P. 49.
S1 F. (2d) 3S5, reversed.
U. S. 1)i.trict Court for Puerto Rico affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 298 U. S. 651, to review a judgment reversing a recovery in the District Court of the United States
for Puerto Rico on a policy of fire insurance. The court
below had at first decided the other way. 77 F. (2d) 891.

Mr. Francis H. Dexter for petitioner.
Mr. Hcnri Brown, with whom Mr. Carroll G. Walter
was on the brief, for respondent.

