SCHAFER v. HELVERING.
Opinion of the Court.

ALGERNON S. SCHAFER v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 24.

Argued November 17, 1936.-Decided December 7, 1936.

1. Consideration of the case is conlfined to the issue tendered by the
petition for certiorari. P. 172.
2. A stock broker in purchasing shares for his own account in expectation of a rise in the market, for resale to any buyer at a profit, is
not a "dealer in securities," entitled under Art. 105 of Treasury
Regulations 74 to use inventories of securities at market value in
computing income for taxation. P. 173.
65 App. D. C. 292; 83 F. (2d) 317, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 298 U. S. 650, to review the affirmance of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 32 B. T. A. 289, sustaining a deficiency income tax assessment.
Mr. Eugene Untermyer,with whom Mr. EdgarJ. Goodrich was on the brief, for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Jackson, with yvhom Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. Sewall Key, Carlton Fox,
and Charles A. Horsky were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners in these three causes were partners in
Schafer Brothers, brokers at 120 Broadway, and member
of the New York Stock Exchange. The firm traded for
others; also bought and sold securities for itself. The
*

Together with No. 25, Edward Schafer v. Helvering, Commis-

sioner of Internal Revenue; and No. 26, Tim et al., Executors, v.
Helvering, Commissioner of Internal Revenue. On writs of certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

latter were carried on its books in the so-called "Error
Account."
In order to ascertain the partners' taxable profits during 1929 the Commissioner held that securities in that
account should be valued at thdir cost price; that as to
them the partnership was not a dealer permitted to use
inventories under Article 105, Treasury Regulations 74.
Accordingly he found material deficiencies against each
of the petitioners. The Board of Tax Appeals sustained
his action; the court below affirmed.
The petition,. -upon which we granted the writs, states
this as the "question presented": "Was the partnership
of which these petitioners were members a 'dealer in
securities' as to securities bought and sold for its own
account, and as such entitled to inventory such securities
at cost or market, whichever was lower, in computing its
income for 1929? . . Determination of the amount
thus to be included in the income of each petitioner depends upon the basis upon which the partnership income
is computed."
And as "reasons for granting the writs" it averred:
"(1) The decision of the Court'of Appeals of the 'District of Columbia is in irreconcilable conflict on a matter
of statutory interpretation with the decision of the Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Commissioner v.
Stevens, 78 F. (2d) 713, and with, the decision of the
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in Commissioner
v. C xravay, 79 F. (2d) 406. (2) The precise question
of statutory construction here presented is one of general
public importance which has never been settled, and
should be determined by this Court because of the number of pending cases involving the question, as well as
the freqdent occasions that the question is bound to arise
in the future."
Our consideration -is confined to the issue so tendered
by the petition.

SCHAFER v. HELVERING.
Opinion of the Court.

171

Commissioner v. Stevens and Commissioner v. Charvay, supra, turned on the question whether Stevens and
Legg, a "Specialist" on the New York Stock Exchange,
was a dealer whose profits should be determined upon
inventories under Article 105, Treasury Regulations 74.
as, and the Circuit
The Board of Tax Appeals held i
Court of Appeals in both the Second and Third Circuits
approved that view. Considering the differing circumstances, we find no real conflict between the holdings in
those cases and the ruling below. SeeVaughan v. Commissioner, 85 F. (2d) 497.
Pertinent provisions, Revenue Act of 1928, c. 852, 45
Stat. 791, and Treasury Regulations 74, are in the
margin.*
*Revenue

Act of 1928, c. 852, 45 Stat. 791:

"See. 22. GRoss INCOME.

(c) Inventories.-Whenever in the opinion of the Commissioner
the use of inventories is necessary in order clearly to determine the
income of any taxpayer, inventories shall be taken by such taxpayer
upon such basis as the Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary, may prescribe as conforming as narly as may be to the best
accounting practice in the trade or business and as most clearly
reflecting the income."
Treasury Regulations 74:
"Art. 101. Need of Inventories.--In order to reflect the net income correctly, inventories at the beginning and end of each year,
are necessary in every case in which the production, purchase, or sale
of merchandise is an income-producing factor.
"Art. 105.

Inventories by dealers in securities.-A dealer in se-

curities, who in his books of account regularly inventories unsold
securities on hand either(a) At cost;
(b) At cost or market, whichever is lower; or
(c) At market value,
may make his return upon the basis upon which his accounts are
kept; provided that a description of the method employed shall be
included in or attached to the return, that all the securities must
be inventoried by the same method, and that such method must be

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Schafer Brothers was not a "Specialist" in the stocks
entered in its "Error Account." The Board of Tax Appeals found: "The stocks in dispute were purchased for
the firm's own account solely in expectation of a rise in
the market, for sale to anyone at a profit 'as distinguished
from a purchase to create a stock of securities to take
care of future buying orders in excess of selling orders.' "
"They were purchased solely in expectation of a rise in
the market, for the partnership's, own account for resale,
to any buyer, at a profit. The meaning of 'dealer in
securities,' as defined in the controlling regulation, has
been considered many times by the courts, and this
Board. It is limited to one who, as a merchant, buys and
sells securities to customers for the profit thereon."
The evidence adequately supports these findings.
Seeley v. Commissioner, 77 F. (2d) 323, Hammitt v.
Commissioner, 79 F. (2d) 494, and Vaughan v. Commissioner, supra, are in harmony with our conclusion.
We find no adequate reason for disturbing the challenged judgment, and it is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of these cases.
adhered to in subsequent years, unless another be authorized by the
Commissioner. For, the purpose of this rule a dealer in securities is
a merchant of securities, whether an individual, partnership, or corporation, with an established place of business, regularly engaged in
tht purchase of securities and their resale to customers; that is, one
who as a merchant buys securities and sells them to customers with
a view to the gains and profits that may be derived therefrom. If
such business is simply a branch of the activities carried on by such
person, the securities inventoried as here provided may include only
those held for purposes of resale and not for investment. Taxpayers
who buy and sell or hold securities for investment or speculation and
aot in the course of an established business, and officers of corporatiorand members of partnerships who in their individual capacities
buy and sell securities, are not dealers in securities within the meazing
of this rule."

