OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

excise upon the doing of the business whether lawfully or
unlawfully conducted.'
Affirmed.
The judgment is
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
ESSEX RAZOR BLADE CORP. v. GILLETTE
SAFETY RAZOR CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 21.

Argued October 15, 16, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

Patent No. 1,633,739, to Gaisman, Claims 1 and 2, for a safetyrazor blade "having a non-circular opening substantially centrally
'disposed to retain the blade in shaving relation to a guard mem-,
ber, said blade having means spaced from said opening to co~perAte with a clamping member to retain the latter in shaving relation
to the blade independent of the guard member," held void for
want of invention.
83 F. (2d) 541, reversed; 13 F. Supp. 505, affirmed.

298 U. S. 649, to review the reversal of a
decree dismissing a bill to. enjoin alleged infringement of
patent.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. George E. Middleton, with whom Mr. C. M.
Palmer was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Henry R. Ashton, with whom Mr. Charles Neave

was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

ROBF-RTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The respondent

blades.

makes and sells safety razors and

The petitioner makes and sells only blades.

'United States v. Constantine, 296 U. S. 287, 293.

The

ESSEX BLADE CORP. v. GILLETTE.
94

Opinion of the Court.

Gaisman patent No. 1,633,739, owned by the respondent,
covers both safety razor blades and razors, and for the
alleged infringement by petitioner of Claims 1 and 2 covering blades this suit was brought. The claims are so
nearly alike that quotation of Claim 1 will suffice:
"A blade having a non-circular opening substantially
centrally disposed to retain the blade in shaving relation
to a guard member, said blade having means spaced from
said opening to co6perate with a clamping member to retain the latter in shaving relation to the blade independent, of the guard member."
The novelty claimed for the patented article is that the
blade acts as a positioning device or key to maintain the
cap, the blade itself, and the guard, in proper relation to
each other for shaving.
The District Court dismissed the bill on the ground that
the patent was void for want of invention.1 The Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed, holding that the patent disclosed invention and was infringed by the petitioner's
blade.' The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit has decided that a blade like the petitioner's in
all important features does not infringe. In view of the
conflict certiorari was granted.
Safety razors of the Gillette type combine these elements: A guard, a cap or backing member, a blade,. a
handle, and means to clamp the blade in shaving position
between the cap and the guard. King C. Gillette accomplished a major advance in the art when he conceived a
double-edged blade so thin and flexible as to require external support to give rigidity to its cutting edge and a
safety razor embodying such a blade. In 1904 he was
awarded a patent, No. 755,134, for this invention. He
113 F. Supp. 505.
283 F. (2d)

541.

'Gillette Safety Razor Co. v. Hawley Hardware Co., 64 F. (2d)

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

claimed "as a new article of manufacture a detachable
razor-blade of such thinness and flexibility as to require
external support and giv'e rigidity to its cutting edge."
He made further claims of which the following may be
taken as typical:
"In a razor, the combination with a perforated blade of
a holder comprising a guard, a backing, a handle, and positioning and clamping means passing through the perforations in the blade."
His patent, which was sustained with respect to the
claims both for the blade and for the razor,4 expired years
before the issue of that which is the subject of the present
litigation. In Gillette's specifications and drawings the
means disclosed for holding the blade in position between
the guard and the cap are two metal arms secured to the
base of the guard and turned upwards to pass through
the guard near each end. The blade and the cap have
slots through which these metal arms pass when the razor
is assembled. The function of the arms is described thus:
"To position the blade with respect to the guard and hold
it against lateral movements." The patent also discloses
that the cap and guard are to be clamped together upon
the blade by a threaded post set in the centre of the cap
passing through a hole in the centre of the blade and another in the centre of the guard aid screwed into the end
of the handle. In commercial practice Gillette substituted for the arms affixed to the guard two pins or posts
set in the transverse median line of the cap equidistant
from the centre. He then made his blade and guard with
two corresponding holes so that in assembling :the razor
these posts or pins passed through the blade and the guard
and held the blade in position when the. handle was
'Gillette Safety Razor Co. v. Clark Blade & Razor Co., 187 Fed.
149; affirmed in Clark Blade & Razor Co. v. Gillette Safety Razor
Co., 194 Fed. 421.

ESSEX BLADE CORP. v. GILLETTE.
94

Opinion of the Court.

screwed upon the centre post of the cap to clamp the
blade in shaving position. After the granting of the Gillette patent many others having to do with safety razors
of a similar type were issued. These exhibited various
means for fixing and h6lding a blade in position between
cap and guard, although invention apparently was not
claimed to consist in any such positioning device. In some,
a protuberance was placed on the guard to fit into a
slot in the blade and pass through that into an appropriate recess in the cap. In others pins were set in the
guard to pass through holes in the blade-and thence into
sockets in the cap. Still others showed the same device
as Gillette used commercially. Several showed slots cut
in the end of the blade and cap to be engaged by pins
or springs extending from the guard. In others, the
procedure was reversed, the slots being in the end of
the blade and guard to be engaged by pins or lugs set
in the ends of the cap. In most of these patents, as in
Gillette's combination, the device adopted locked together all three members, guard, blade, and cap. In
Gaisman's construction the guard carries a non-circular
protuberance and the blade has a hole cut into it to fit
snugly- over this protubeiance.. The blade also has
notches in its ends or corners and the cap is provided
with ,corresponding pins or lugs to engage these notches.
The protuberance on the guard, although passing
through and fixing the blade in position with reference
to the guard, has no functional connection with the cap.
On the other hand, the lugs on the cap which position
the blade with respect to it do not engage the guard
or have any functional connection with the latter. The
advantages elaimed for this method are that it renders
assembly of the razor easier and also makes possible a
more accurate location of the shaving edge of the blade
relative to the edges of cap and guard, because, in the
107510°--37--.7

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

old pin or post type, greater tolerances had to be allowed
with consequent possibility of excessive shifting of the
blade in relation to the other two members; or such
tolerances had to be overcome in the manufacture of
the parts, greatly increasing the cost of production.
Thus it is said that, with the same manufacturing routine, the respondent's new so-called Goodwill razor, embodying the Gaisman construction, permits a possible
shifting of the blade of not over three one-thousandths
of an inch as compared with five one-thousandths of
an inch in the old design.
Though the petitioner's blade closely resembles the
Gaisman blade furnished by the respondent for use in its
Goodwill razor, we lay to one side the inquiry whether
the similitude is such as to constitute infringement, since
we hold the patent invalid for lack of invention.
As already suggested, every safety razor consisting of
a combination of guard, cap, blade, and clamping means
nmust also provide means to keep the blade in position
relative to the cap and guard. The means adopted have
been various. Gillette resorted to the device of square
rods or round, pins fixed either to the guard or to the cap
and slots or holes in the blade and the other member
through which the rods or pins should pass to fix the
blade in position. Gaisman fixed the blade relative to
the guard by one set of lugs and slots and fixed it in relation to the cap by another set of lugs and slots. The
choice was one between alternative means obvious to any
mechanic; it did not have the quality of invention.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

