N. Y.

EX REL.

ROGERS v. GRAVES.
Syllabus.

NEW YORK

EX

REL.

ROGERS v. GRAVES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 139.

Argued December 9, 10, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.

1. The construction, management and operation of the. Panama
Canal are governmental functions, and within the constitutional
power of Congress to regulate commerce and to provide for the
national defense. P. 406.
2. Such being the status of the Canal, it follows that all auxiliaries
primarily designed and used to aid in its management and operation, and which have that effect, partake of its nature, and constitute, with the Canal, a single great regulator of national and international commerce. P. 406.
3. The interrelation of its activities with the management and operation of the Panama Canal is such as to constitute the Panama
Rail Road Company a governmental instrumentality of the United
States. P. 406.
4. This conclusion is supported by the contemporaneous and longcontinued administrative practice; and the correctness of it is
recognized by relevant federal legislation. Pp. 406-407.
5. The character of the Railroad Company as a governmental instrumentality is not altered by the fact that its ships and railroad
are used to some extent to carry private freight and passengers.
The primary purpose of the enterprise being legitimately governmental, its incidental use for private purposes does not change its
character. P. 407.
6. Even if it be assumed that the dairy, hotels, and other enterprises,
built and maintained by the Company, are not governmental
instrumentalities, this would not alter the fact that the railroad
itself, in connection with the Canal, is a governmental instrumentality. P. 408.
7. It is vell settled that the federal government may employ a
corporation as a means to carry into effect the substantive powers
granted by the Constitution. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316. P. 408.
8. The Railroad Company being immune from state taxation, it
necessarily results that fixed salaries and compensation paid to its
officers and employees in their capacities as such are likewise
immune. P. 408.
9. The salary of the general counsel of the Panama Railroad Company held exempt from payment of a state income tax. Pp.
402, 408.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

. 299 U. S.

10. The evidence in this case sufficiently negatives the suggestion
that the relator--since 1906 the general counsel of the Railroad
Company, at a fixed annual salary, and in the same category in
respect of the Company as the secretary and treasurer-may have
been an independent contractor and not an officer. P. 409.
271 N. Y. 543, reversed.

from a judgment affirming a judgment sustaining a state income tax. The taxpayer had claimed that
the salary on which the tax was imposed was exempt
from state income tax.
APPEAL

,Mr. Richard Reid Rogers for appellant.
Mr. Joseph 111. Mesnig, Assistant Attorney General of
New York, with whom Mr. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney
General, and Mr. Henry Epstein, Solicitor General, were
on the brief, for appellees..
MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The relator, Richard Reid Rogers, is general counsel
for the Panama Rail Road Company, a corporation created by an old statute of the State of Ncw York for the
purpose of constructing and operating a railroad across
the Isthmus of Panama. In making his state income-tax
return for the years 1927, 1928, and 1929, he reported the
receipt of salary from the corporation during those years,
but, upon the claim that the salary was exempt, paid no
.tax. The State Tax Commission, however, sustained the
tax, and it then was paid under protest. The Appellate
Division of the Supreme Court of New York, to which
the case was taken by certiorari, upheld the view of the
Tax Commission, 245 App. Div. 452; 283 N. Y. S. 538,
and the decision was affirmed by the Court of Appeals,
without opinion. 271 N. Y. 543; 2 N. E. (2d) 686.
The ground upon which the relator claimed the exemption was that the Panama Rail Road Company was a

N. Y. EX REL. ROGERS v. GRAVES.
401

403

Opinion of the Court.

wholly-owned instrumentality of the United States, engaged in maintaining, operating and protecting the Panama Canal; that as such, the railroad company was
exempt from state taxation and, in consequence, the fixed
salaries paid to its officers and employees were also exempt. The Appellate Division held that the railroad
company was a government-controlled corporate agency
engaged in a commercial proprietary function, and was
not immune from state taxation since, it said, such taxation did not hinder or restrain "functions which are
unquestionably, properly and usually governmental in
their character."
First. The corporation was privately owned and operated for many years; but in 1904, the United States acquired the entire capital stock of the corporation, and ever
since has been, and now is, the sole owner thereof. The
company operates a railroad across the Isthmus, conducts
a commissary establishment for the benefit of the personnel of the Panama Canal, the railroad company, and the
armed forces of the United States upon the Isthmus, and
operates a dairy and two hotels in connection therewith.
It also operates a line of steamships between New York
and the Canal Zone, which ships afford the personnel of
the canal and of the railroad company transportation at
a nominal rate, and carry freight for the government of
the United States to the Canal Zone at 25% less than the
customary tariff rates.
The acquisition by the United States of the Panama
Rail Road Company was coincident with its acquisition
of the control of the Panama Canal Zone and the right to
construct and maintain a ship canal across it. Since the
acquisition of the" railroad company by the government,
the directors, thirteen in number, have been elected by the
Secretary of War, as sole stockholder of record of the corporate stock with the exception of thirteen qualifying
shares held by the directors.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opiniun of the Court.

299 U. S.

During the construction of the canal, the railroad was
almost exclusively employed as an adjunct of such construction, although it was incidentally used also for commercial transportation across the Isthmus. In United
States ex rel. Skinner C Eddy Corp. v. McCarl, 275 U. S.
1, 6, we said, "For many years before the War, the Government had employed the Panama Railroad Company as
its instrumentality in connection with the Canal." In a
footnote following that statement, we pointed out that
the stock in the railroad company was acquired in order
that the railroad might be used in *themanner most helpful to the government in constructing the canal, and cited
public documents which sustained that view.
In order to reach a correct determination of the question
whether the railroad company is exercising functions of
a governmental character, the railroad and ships are to
be considered not as things apart, but in their relation to
the Panama Canal; and it is clear that the railroad and
ships, after the completion of the canal, continued to be
used chiefly as adjuncts to its management and operation.
The question, therefore, to be answered is whether the
canal is such an instrumentality of the federal government as to be immune from state taxation; and, if so, are
the operations of the railroad company so connected with
the canal as to confer upon the company a like immunity?
The authority for the construction of the canal and the
acquisition of rights in connection therewith is found in
the Act of Congress of June 28, 1902, c. 1302, 32 Stat. 481.
By that act, the President was authorized to acquire for
the United States all the rights and property of the New
Panama Cinal Company, of France, on the Isthmus of
Panama, including the capital stock of the Panama Rail
Road Company "owned by or held for the use of said
canal company"; to acquire from the Republic of Colombia perpetual control of the Panama Canal Zone, a strip
of land six miles in width and extending across the Isth-

N. Y.
401

EX REL.

ROGERS v. GRAVES.

Opinion of the Court.

mus; and to construct and perpetually maintain, operate,
and protect thereon a ship canal, including "the right to
perpetually maintain and operate the Panama Railroad."
The acquisition was to include jurisdiction over the Zone
and the ports at the ends thereof, and the power to make
police and sanitary rules and regulations necessary to preserve order and preserve the public health thereon; and to
establish judicial tribunals necessary to enforce such rules
and regulations.
Section 7 of the act created a commission to carry out
the purpose- of the act, and authorized the employment
of engineers necessary for the prosecution of the work.
The commission was to be subject to the direction and
control of the President, and was to make full reports
of their doings, to be transmitted to Congress by the
President. Section 8 authorized the Secretary of the
Treasury to borrow, on the credit of the United States,
such sums as might be required to defray expenditures
authorized by the act, not to exceed $130,000,000, and to
issue bonds of the United States as security therefor.
The Act of August 24, 1912, c. 390, § 4, 37 Stat. 560,
561; 48 U. S. C. § 1305, authorized the President to govern and operate the Panama Canal and the Canal Zone
through a Governor of the "Panama Canal" and other
persons. The Governor was to be appointed by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate, commissioned for
a term of four years, with an annual salary of $10,000.
The Governor was to have control and jurisdiction over
the Zone, which was to be held, treated and governed as
an adjunct of the canal. 37 Stat. 564, § 7; 48 U. S. C.
§ 1307. Later legislation authorizes the President to
make rules and regulations in matters of health,,etc., and
imposes penalties for their violation. 48 U. S. C. § 1310.
The President is also given broad powers of police within
the Zone. 48 U. S. C. §§ 1312, 1313, 1314. We need not
particularize further. Chapter 6, Title 48 U. S. C., dis-

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U.S.

closes a large body of laws passed by Congress for the
government and control of the canal, and of both the
Canal Zone and the railroad company as necessary adjuncts of the canal.
That under these laws, the creation, management and
operation of the canal are all governmental functions and
the laws well within the constitutional power of Congress
to provide for the national defense and to regulate commerce under the commerce clause of the Constitution, does
not admit of doubt. Californiav. Central Pacific Railroad
Co., 127 U. S. 1, 39; Luxton v. North River Bridge Co.,
153 U. S. 525.
The building and operation of a bridge or a road or a
canal is not commerce in the substantive sense, but is the
creation and use of a physical thing as a medium by and
through which commerce is regulated, since such creation
and use condition and facilitate transportation. Luxton
v. North River Bridge Co., supra, pp. 533-534; Pensacola
Telegraph Co. v. Western Union, 96 U. S. 1, 9, 10; cf.
Carterv. CarterCoal Co., 298 U. S. 238, 297. In recognition of the principle established by these and other decisions, this court in Wilson v. Shaw, 204 U. S. 24, 33,
sustained the acquisition, construction and maintenance
of the canal as within the commerce power of the federal
government.
Such being the status of the canal, it requires no argument to demonstrate that all auxiliaries primarily designed and used to aid in its management and operation,
and which have that effect, partake of its nature and are
themselves coperating regulators-or, perhaps more accurately speaking, constitute, with the canal, a single great
regulator-of national and international commerce. And
this, we ,think, is the effect of the interrelation of the
railroad company's activities with the management and
operation of the canal.
If support for this view were thought necessary, it
could be found in the contemporaneous and long-

N. Y. EX REL. ROGERS v. GRAVES.
401

Opinion of the Court.

continued administrative practice. On April 27, 1928, the
Secretary of War, in a letter to the President, said: "The
[steamship] Line is an integral part of the Panama Canal
and indispensable in its discharge of its normal responsibilities. The successful operation of this great enterprise,
which is of vital importance to the United States, demands absolute security as to its line of supply to this
country."
Section 500 of the War Revenue Act of 1917 (40 Stat.
314), levied a tax upon sums paid for transportation by
rail and water, but exempted (§ 502) therefrom payments
received for services rendered to the United States, etc.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue held that transportation services performed for the Panama Rail Road
Company fell within the exemption, on the ground that
they were "in .substance payments for services rendered
the United States."
Article 96, Department Regulations No. 49, revision of
June, 1921, declares that transportation services rendered
to agencies of the United States are exempt from the tax,
and enumerates as among such agencies the Panama Rail
Road Company. The commissioner had likewise held
that the railroad companywas not subject to the capital
stock tax imposed by the Revenue Act of 1918 (40 Stat.
1126), because the company was a government agency.
Again, on September 20, 1926, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue advised the company that inasmuch as it
was a governmental agency, it was not required to file federal income-taxreturns or to pay federal income taxes.
No act of Congress suggests any different view, but all
such legislation, so far as it deals with the subject,
recognizes its correctness.
We attach no importance to the fact that the railroad.
company has utilized both its ships and railroad to carry
private freight and passengers. The record shows that
this is done to a limited extent compared with the govermnent business; and that it is only incidental to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

governmental operations. The primary purpose of the
enterprise being legitimately governmental, its incidental
use for private purposes affords no ground for objection.
United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53, 73;
Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288,
333. The first of these two cases dealt with the disposition of excess water power developed by a project to
improve navigation; and the second with the disposition
of surplus electric energy developed by a like project.
But the principle is equally applicable to the situation
here.
It is suggested that the dairy, hotels, and other enterprises, built and maintained by the company, are not
governmental instrumentalities. Even if we accept that
conclusion-which, in view of their use for the personnel
of the railroad and canal, we are far from doing-it would
not alter the fact that the railroad itself, in connection
with the canal, is a federal instrumentality.
Second. The power of the federal government to use a
corporation as a means to carry into effect the substantive powers granted by the Constitution has never been
doubted since McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316.
The Panama Rail Road Company was acquired and has
been utilized in virtue of that power. The railroad company being immune from state taxation, it necessarily
results that fixed salaries and compensation paid to its
officers and employees in their capacity as such are likewise immune.
In Dobbins v. Commissioners of Erie County, 16 Pet.
435, 448-449, this court held that a state was without
authority to tax the instruments, or compensation of persons, which the United States may use and employ as
necessary and proper means to execute its sovereign
power. The rule is well established; and the reasons
upon which it is based and the authorities sustaining it
have been so recently reviewed by this Court, Indian

N. Y.
401

EX REL.

ROGERS v. GRAVES.

Opinion of the Court.

Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 570, 575, et
seq., that further discussion is unnecessary.
The rule itself is not denied; but it was suggested in
the court below by counsel for the state, and the suggestion was repeated here, albeit faintly, that the record does
not establish whether relator was an officer or employee
of the railroad company or an independent contractor.
The point was not made or suggested either before the
State Tax Commission or in the Appellate Division of
the Supreme Court. The whole question there was
whether the company was subject to taxation; and it
quite evidently was taken for granted that a negative
answer to that question would carry with it an exemption
of relator's salary. It is conceded that the point was
raised by counsel for the state for the first time in the
Court of Appeals; and that in reply to a question from
that bench whether he wished the case decided upon that
point, counsel answered in the negative and declared that
the state wanted a decision upon the merits.
Under these circumstances, it is not surprising that the
obligation of the relator to prove his case in this regard
was somewhat perfunctorily discharged. The record,
however, does show that relator was, and had been ever
since the year 1906, general counsel for the railroad company with a fixed annual salary, in the same category in
respect of the 'railroad company as the secretary and
treasurer. We think this evidence sufficiently negatives
the belated suggestion that relator may have been an
independent contractor and not an officer, within the rule
stated and discussed in Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269
U. S. 514, 524-526.
Reversed and remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
MR. JusTIcE STowF, took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

