FOUST v. MUNSON S. S. LINES.
Syllabus.

FOUST, ADMINISTRATOR, v. MUNSON STEAMSHIP LINES.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 19. Argued October 15, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.
1. A claim against a steamship corporation under § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act is provable and dischargeable in a proceeding
to reorganize the corporation under § 77 B of the Bankruptcy Act.
P. 81.
2. In a proceeding to reorganize a steamship corporation under
§ 77 B of the Bankruptcy Act, the District Court has jurisdiction
to enjoin the prosecution of an action at law instituted against the
corporation before the petition for reorganization was filed, by
the administrator of a deceased seaman, seeking to recover damages, under § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act, for alleged negligence
of the corporation, assigned as the cause of the seaman's death.
P. 82.
3. The granting of the injunction rests in the sound discretion of
the court. P. 83.
4. Exercise of the power to stay suits against the debtor, eonferred
by § 77 B, (c) (10), of the Bankruptcy Act, must accord with
the particular circumstances of the case and be guided by justice
to the claimants, the debtor, and the estate. P. 83.
5. Reorganization proceedings under § 77 B of the Bankruptcy Act,
are not inherently inconsistent with jury trial for the liquidation
of claims under § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act. P. 84.
6. In support of an application for leave to prosecute an action atlaw which had been stayed by an injunction issued ex parte in a
proceeding to reorganize the debtor corporation under § 77 B of the
Bankruptcy Act, there was evidence tending to show that the estate
would not be unjustly affected, because the debtor's liability in
the action was covered by insurance and defense of the action
would be borne by the insurer. Held:
(1) That the bu'rden was upon the debtor and the trustees in
reorganization to prove that the estate would be affected unjustly.
P. 84.
(2) Detinite evidence respecting the insurance being within the
control of the debtor and tru-teez, their failure to produce it tends

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

strongly to discredit their opposition to the application and,
by inference, to support it. P. 85.
(3) In the absence of a showing of facts sufficient to require a
finding that liquidation of applicant's claim by jury trial would
encumber the reorganization proceedings, the debtor and trustees
were not entitled to have the injunction continued in force against
applicant. P. 86.
(4) It was abuse of discretion to deny the application even if,
as assumed by the court below, the insurance was less than the
applicant's full claim-this partly in view of doubts whether,
under the New York law; the insurer would be liable if the claim
were liquidated through reference to a master in the reorganization
proceeding, rather than through trial by jury. P. 87.
82 F. (2d) 289, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 298 U. S. 649, to review the affirmance of
an ord 9 r of the District Court in reorganization proceedings under § 77 B of the Bankruptcy Act. The order
denied leave to prosecute an action at law for death by
negligence, and referred the claim to a special master.
For an opinion of the court below earlier than the one
cited above, see.80 F. (2d) 859.

Mr. Simone N. Gazan, for petitionier.
Mr. Arthur M. Boal, with whom Mr. Alfred N. Heuston
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner is the administrator of the estate of Coy .E.
Foust and, February 1, 1934, commenced an action at
law under § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act of 19201 in
S,, . . . in case of the death of any seaman as a result of any . . .
personal injury [suffered in the course of his employment] the personal representative of such seaman may maintain an action for
damages at law with the right of trial by jury ....

Jurisdiction in

FOUST v. MUNSON S. S. LINES.
77

Opinion of the Court.

the United States court for the southern district of New
York against the Munson Steamship Lines. His complaint alleges that, February 27, 1930, while deceased was
at work for defendant as seaman on its steamship Mundelta, his death was caused by defendant's negligence,
and, for the benefit of petitioner as surviving father,
prays damages in the sum of $15,000. Defendant's
answer denies the negligence charged against it and
alleges decedent's death was caused by risks assumed and
his own negligence.
June 11, 1934, defendant filed its petition for reorganization under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act.2 The petition did not refer to the administrator's claim or to the
action brought for its enforcement. Two days after it
was filed, the court entered a decree that approved the
petition as properly filed, declared the debtor unable
to meet its debts as they mature, determined it required
relief under § 77B, appointed trustees to take and operate its property and, inter alia, enjoined the institution
or prosecution of any action at law against the debtor.
January 26, 1935, petitioner applied for leave to prosecute his suit and supported his application by an affidavit
of his attorney suggesting: The debtor is covered by liability insurance; if petitioner gets judgment, he will sue
insurer to enforce its liability under § 109 of the Insurance Law of New York; ' the stay is unjust to the sursuch actions shall be under the court of the district in which the
defendant employer resides or in which his principal office is located."
46 U. S. C., § 688. Panama R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 391.
Lindgren v. United States, 281 U. S. 38, 40.
'Added by § 1, Act of June 7, 1934, 48 Stat. 911, 11 U. S. C.,
§ 207.
"No policy of insurance against loss or damage resulting from
accident to or injury suffered by an employee . . . shall be issued or
delivered in this state . . . unless there shall be contained within

such policy a provision that the insolvency or bankruptcy of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

viving father, gives no advantage to the debtor and benefits only the insurer. The affidavit asserts that plaintiff
is entitled to a jury trial and that prosecution of his
action at law should not be stayed. The trustees by affidavit of one of their attorneys opposed petitioner's application but did not say that the debtor is not protected
by insurance. The court denied petitioner's motion and
ordered that a special master be appointed to report on
the claim. Petitioner applied to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for leave to appeal. After hearing the parties,
it filed an opinion announcing that appeal would be
granted but that the argument would be confined to the
question whether the action can be stayed. Later the
court entered an order unqualifiedly allowing the appeal.
Meyer v. Kenmore Hotel Co., 297 U. S. 160, 165.
After argument, limited as suggested, the court in its
first opinion on the appeal held petitioner's claim provable
and dischargeable and the district court empowered to
stay prosecution of the suit. 80 F. (2d) 859. Then there
remained for consideration the question-which had not
been argued-whether in the exertion of that power the
district court abused its discretion. The court suggested
that, if petitioner would stipulate not to use as a claim
against the estate any judgment he might recover, there
could be no objection to allowing his action to proceed.
It held the appeal should not be finally determined without giving the parties a chance to present their views as
to whether the district court ought not to allow the action
to proceed and directed that, if petitioner failed to file
such a stipulation within a specified time, supplemental
person insured shall not release the insurance carrier . . . and stating
that in case execution against the insured is returned unsatisfied ...
because of such insolvency or bankruptcy, then an action may be
maintained by the injured person, or his or her personal representative," against the insurer for the amount of the judgment not exceeding the amount of the policy.

FOUST v. MUNSON S. S. LINES.
77

Opinion of the Court.

briefs would be received relating to the propriety of the
exercise of the judicial discretion of the district court.
Petitioner having declined so to stipulate, the patties submitted their briefs. In his, petitioner stated that under
the insurance policy the first $2,500 of petitioner's claim
would be borne by the insured; that the value of the claim
was not over $5,000 and that such stipulation would mean
that the administrator would relinquish a substantial part
of his claim. Upon consideration of the additional briefs
the court in its second opinion on the appeal held that
the district court had not abused discretion, and affirmed
the order. 82 F. (2d) 289.
As a reason in support of the stay, the first opinion
states that jurors often return far larger verdicts in negligence cases than reason justifies, and that the trustees
have a right to take that fact into account and not to
accede to a method for the liquidation of tort claims that
is unusual in bankruptcy unless the ordinary method of
proof before a special master would imperil the claimant's rights. In its second opinion the court adopted and
emphasized the fact stated in appellant's supplemental
brief to the effect that the policy covered not over onehalf the value of petitioner's claim. It decided that, as
the debtor's estate had a substantial interest in the
amount of the recovery, the district judge did not abuse
his discretion. The court said: "That mode was more
convenient and expeditious than any other and was
plainly an advantage to the estate." It added: "If
the claim had been fully covered by the insurance so that
the carrier was primarily liable for the entire damage, we
might have reached a different conclusion; but, under
the circumstances, we think the determination of the
court below was justified," and affirmed the order appealed from.
The Circuit Court of Appeals rightly held petitioner's
claim provable and dischargeable and the district judge
empowered to stay proceedings in the suit.
107510*-- 37-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U.S.

Section 77 B gives to the district judge power, to be
exerted in accordance with its provisions, to alter the
rights of creditors or any class of them. Subdivision (b)
(10) declares the term "creditors" shall include, for all
the purposes of the section, the holders of claims of
whatever character and whether or not they would otherwise constitute provable claims under the Bankruptcy
Act; that the term "claims" includes debts, securities,
other than stock, liens, or other interests of whatever
character. Subdivision (h) directs that the final decree
shall discharge the debtor from its debts and' liabilities.
Subdivision (c) (8) provides that, if a plan is not proposed or accepted, or if proposed and accepted but not
confirmed, the court may direct the estate to be liquidated. Subdivision (k) (4), upon order for liquidation,
authorizes to be proved as provided in § 57 claims provable under § 63,' but declares that none of the sections.
mentioned in subd. (k) except subds. (g), (i), (j)and
(m) of § 57' and subds. a and e of § 70 shall apply in
proceedings under § 77 B unless and until an order has
been made directing liquidation of the estate. Mere
reading of pertinent parts of the above-mentioned provisions makes it plain that "creditors" and "claims" as
used in proceedings under § 77 B are more comprehensive
than in the Act before the addition of that section. See
American Surety Co. v. Marotta, 287 U. S. 513, 517.
Undoubtedly "creditors," "claims" and "liabilities" to
'11 U. S. C., § 103.
These subdiyisions relate to claims: (g) of creditors who have received preferences; (i) secured by individual undcrtaking of another;
(j) based on debts owing the United States, a State, etc., as a penalty
or forfeiture, and (m) of any estate being administered in bankruptcy.
11 U. S. C., § 93.
°These declare: (a) That the trustee succeeds to the bankrupt's
title as of date of adjudication; and (e) may avoid any transfer which
any creditor of bankrupt might have avoided. 11 U. S. C., § 110.

FOUST v. MUNSON S. S. LINES.
Opinion of the Court.

77

be dealt with in the reorganization proceeding include
petitioner, thltause of action he asserts and the judgment he seeks to recover.
Section 77 B (c) (10), enlarging power conferred by
§ 11,7 broadly declares the judge "may enjoin or stay the

commencement or continuation of suits against the
debtor until after final decree." The exclusive jurisdiction given the court over the debtor and his property,
subd. (a), does not imply that the commencement or
the carrying on of suits against the debtor must be
enjoined or that all claims must be referred to a master
for consideration and report. Subd. (c) (11). See In
re Prudence Bonds Corp., 75 F. (2d) 262, 263. The
power to stay does not imply that it is to be, or appropriately may be, exerted without regard to the facts.
The granting or withholding of injunction is left to the
discretion of the court.
Was the denial of petitioner's application for leave to
prosecute his action at law an abuse of discretion?
The record contains no opinion or statement of the district judge to disclose the grounds on which he rested his
denial. In reorganization proceedings neither the Act nor
any rule of law entitles debtors or trustees as a matter of
right to enjoin the trial of actions such as that brought by
petitioner. The court is to exercise the power conferred
by subd. (c) (10) according to the particular circumstances of the case and is to be guided by considerations
that under the law make for the ascertainment of what
is just to the claimants, the debtor and the estate. Osborn
v. U. S. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 866. The Styria v. Morgan,
186 U. S. 1, 9. Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S. 531, 541.
Burns v. United States, 287 U. S. 216, 222-223. By § 33
of the Merchant Marine Act, under which the petitioner
sued, Congress ordained that upon claims for personal
'11 U.S. C., § 29.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

injuries or death suffered in the course of their employment seamen or their personal representatives may maintain actions at law for damages with the right of trial by
jury. The reorganization proceedings are not inherently
inconsistent with jury trial for the liquidation of such
claims. Unless satisfactorily shown that prosecution of
petitioner's action would embarrass the administration of
the debtor's estate, the district court should have granted
leave.
There is no support for the stay in the suggestion of the
Circuit Court of Appeals to the effect that in negligence
cases juries often give verdicts larger than reason justifies.
It is to be remembered that if without support in the
evidence or contrary to the law they may be set aside.
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry.v. Coogan, 271 U. S. 472, 478.
Gunning v. Cooley, 281 U. S. 90. Minneapolis, St. P. &
S. S. M. Ry. v. Moquin, 283 U. S. 520, 521. It must be
assumed that the courts by appropriate exertion of their
power will adequately safeguard against verdicts shown
to be arbitrary and unjust. While S 33 of the Merchant
Marine Act remains in force courts may not assume that
claims there specified cannot be justly liquidated by jury
trial. Even if shown generally to attend jury trials, the
suggested danger would not warrant denial of petitioner's
application. We have recently said: "Maintenance of the
jury as a fact-finding body is of such importance and occupies so firm a place in our history and jurisprudence
that any seeming curtailment of the right to a jury trial
should be scrutinized with the utmost care." Dimick v.
Schiedt, 293 U. S. 474, 486.
The record does not sustain the statement that the
mode of liquidation ordered is an adivantage to the estate.
On the contrary, the petitioner's verified application for
leave to appeal states that the attorney for debtor in the
action at law "represents the insurance carrier and consequently the defense of this case will impose no burden

FOUST v. MUNSON S. S. LINES.
77

Opinion of the Court.

whatsoever, either financial or otherwise, upon the trustees herein or their counsel." That statement has not
been denied; nor has it been suggested by the debtor or
trustees that the insurer is not bound under the policy
at its own expense to defend the suit.
Respondent suggests that the record fails to show that
the policy was issued in New York and insists that, unless
it was, the insurance may not be taken into account in
determining whether the district court abused its discretion. The point is without merit. The affidavit submitted by petitioner states in substance that the debtor
is protected by liability insurance and that any judgment
recovered by petitioner on his claim will have to be paid
by the insurer; that if allowed to establish his claim by
jury trial petitioner will then sue insurer under § 109 of
the New York Insurance Law for the amount, if any,
awarded to him and that the only party benefiting by
the delay is the insurance company. It is true that the
affidavit does not directly state that the policy is governed by § 109 or that it contains the provisions required
by that section, but the affidavit is sufficient adequately
to suggest that petitioner claimed that insurer's liability
to the debtor is in accordance with the provisions of that
section. The debtor and trustees had notice of his application for release from the stay; the trustees appeared to
oppose it. They failed to produce the policy or to disclose any of its provisions or whether it was issued in
New York.
The injunction was a comprehensive one plainly broad
enough to cover petitioner's claim; it was entered without disclosure of t'ie existence of that claim or the pending suit and befe" c petitioner had opportunity to be heard
on the propriety of making it apply to him. On his
application for leave to bring his suit to trial petitioner
was seeking to remove the stay;, and under the circum-.
stances the position of debtor and trustees opposing him

OCTOBER, TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

and insisting that the restraint be continued was not
substantially unlike that of suitors for injunction; the
issue was whether liquidation of his claim in that manner would unjustly affect the estate. The facts bearing
on that question were known to, or within the control
of, the debtor and trustees. They had, and readily could
submit to the court, definite evidence in respect of the
insurance. Their failure to bring it forward tends
strongly to discredit their opposition to petitioner's motion. The circumstances warrant the inference that the
facts are not more favorable to respondent than those
indicated by the affidavit as the grounds on which the petitioner sought release from the stay, and that, if disclosed, the policy or other evidence as to the insurance
would not tend to support injunction against petitioner.
Runkle v. Burnham, 153 U. S. 216, 225. Kirby v. Tallmadge, 160 U. S. 379, 383. Mammoth Oil Co. v. United
States, 275 U. S. 13, 52. The burden of frank disclosure
was upon the debtor and trustees. Keystone Driller Co.
v. General Excavator Co., 290 U. S. 240, 244. Cf. 2 High
on Injunctions, 4th ed., § 1474. In the absence of a
showing of facts sufficient to require a finding that liquidation of petitioner's claim by jury trial would encumber
the reorganization proceedings, the debtor and trustees
were not entitled to have the injunction continued in
force against petitioner. Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S.
531, 541.
The Circuit Court of Appeals dealt with the case according to the facts indicated in petitioner's supporting
affidavit as modified by the statement taken from his
supplemental brief to the effect that the policy did not
cover the first $2,500 of the debtor's liability. Petitioner
emphasizes the fact that the record does not show the
modification and says that his statement as to the
amount deductible was made in explanation of his refusal

FOUST v. MUNSON S. S. LINES.
77

Opinion of the Court.

to stipulate that he would not file against the estate a
claim based on the judgment, if any, obtained in the
pending suit. 80 F. (2d) 861. He earnestly insists that
the court erred in predicating its decision upon that statement. As in the view we take of the case the fact that
debtor is only partially insured is not of controlling significance, we do not pass upon that assignment of error.
Assuming that the insurance did not extend to the first
$2,500 and the value of petitioner's claim was not more
than $5,000, we are of opinion that the order appealed
from was an abuse of the discretion vested in the district
court by § 77B (c) (10). If petitioner's claim shall be
established upon report of a master, grave doubts will
arise as to the liability of the insurer to the petitioner.
The case would not be within the words of § 109 of the
New York Insurance Law. Attempt by petitioner to
recover from insurer would encounter difficult questions
of construction of a state statute as to which federal
courts are not the final authority. Morehead v.
Tipaldo, 298 U. S. 587. The imposition of that method
of establishing petitioner's claim is liable to expose him
to serious peril of substantial loss. On the other hand,
if petitioner is permitted to liquidate his claim by jury
trial and shall get judgment, and execution thereon shall
be returned unsatisfied because of the debtor's insolvency,
his case would appear to be plainly within the words and
intent of § 109. That section applying, petitioner would
be entitled to maintain an action against the insurer for
the amount of his judgment but not exceeding the
amount of insurer's liability to the debtor under the
policy.
There is nothing in the record to warrant a finding that
liquidation of petitioner's claim by trial of his pending
action at law would hinder, burden, delay or be at all
inconsistent with the pending corporate reorganization

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

299 U. S.

proceeding under § 77B. Injunction against that method
of establishing the debtor's liability, if any there is, ought
not to stand.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. ILLINOIS LIFE INSURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 27.

Argued October 16, 193(.-Dcided November 9,1936.

1. "Reserve funds required by law,"-a, intended 1)y § 203 (a) (2)
of the Revenue Act of 1928 permittkug tibe deduction of'a percent.
of such funds from gross income in computing the net income of a
life insurance company-are reserves which (lirectlv pertain to life
insurance. Helvering v. Insnrance Co., 294 U. S. 6S6. P. 90.
2. Such reserves do not include "survivorship investment funds,"
accumulated by setting aside part of the premiums paid Ilbe insurance company on 20-payment life policies, from which funds
stipulated payments will be made to those of the policyholders who
survive the 20 year period. Id.
SO F. (2d) 280, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 298 U. S. 650, to review the affirmance by
the court below of a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals,
30 B. T. A. 1160-62, which sustained a deductioni made
by the insurance company in its income tax return.

Mr. Thurman Arnold, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Jackson, and Messrs.
Sewall Key, Norman D. Keller, and Edward H. Horton
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Samuel B. Kraus, with whom Mr. William M.
Klein was on the brief, for respondent.

