BOURDIEU v. PACIFIC OIL CO.
Syllabus.

BOURDIEU v. PACIFIC WESTERN OIL CO.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT, OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 2.

Argued October 12, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

1. Where land withdrawn for oil and gas was entered and patented
as a homestead pursuant to the Act of July 17, 1914,-the oil and
gas, together with the, right to prospect for, mine and remove
them, being reserved to the United States,-the patentee was not
entitled, under § 20 of the Leasing Act of February 25, 1920, to a
preference right to prospect for those minerals or to an oil and
gas lease fQllowing their discovery. P. 69.
[Section 20 of the Leasing Act provides: "In the case of lands
bona fide entered as agricultural, and not withdrawn or classified
as mineral at the time of entry, . . .the entryman or patentee,
or assigns, . . . if the entry has been patented with the mineral
right reserved, shall be entitled to a preference right to a permit
and to a lease, as herein provided, in case of discovery; . . ."]
2. An Executive Order declared that described public lands were
withdrawn from settlement, location, sale or entry, and reserved
for classification and in aid of legislation 'affecting the use and
disposal of petroleum lands belonging to the United, States. Held
that whether or not a "classification" was thus effected, the lands
were clearly "withdrawn lands" within the meaning of the Act of
July 17, 1914, § 1, and the Leasing Act of February 25, 1920, § 20.
Pp. 68, 70.
3. If the merits of the cause may be determined without prejudice to
the rights of parties absent and beyond the jurisdiction of the
coirt, it will be done; and a court of equity will strain hard to
reach that result. P. 70.
4. Where a bill entirely fails to state any cause of action in the
plaintiff, the rights of absent parties are in no way threatened by
it, and to enter upon a consideration of the question of their
indispensability would be a waste of time. P. 71.
5. That the United States would be an indispensable party defendant if the bill were good, does not deprive the court of jurisdiction
to dismiss on the merits a bill which otates no cause of action
against the private pArties named as defendants. P. 71.
80 F. (2d) 774, reversed.
107510 -37-

5

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.
CERTIORARI,

299 U. S.

298 U. S.647, to review a decision that

the suit must be dismissed upon the ground that neither
the District Court nor the court below had jurisdiction,
in as much as the United States was thought to be an
indispensable party. The suit was to declare a trust on
certain land with respect to the right to prospect for and
remove oil and gas. The District Court decided the case
on the merits and dismissed the bill.
Mr. Archer B. Dorman, with whom Messrs. Jefferson
P. Chandler and Howard W. Wright were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Herbert W. Clark, with whom Messrs. Felix T.
Smith, George W. Nilsson, and Herman Phleger were on
the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought by peitioner against respondents
to have impressed in his favor a trust in respect of a portion of a lease, executed by the United States, of oil and
gas lands in the State of California.
The bill alleges that petitioner, since March, 1919, has
been the owner and in possession of certain legal subdivisions of section 30, Township 21 South, Range 17 East,
Mount Diablo Meridian, Fresno County, California, embracing 322.89 acres; that by reason of such ownership,
he has been at all times since February 25, 1920, entitled
to a preference right for a permit to prospect on such
land for oil and minerals and, in case of discovery thereon,
to a lease under the provisions of § 20 of the Leasing Act
of February 25, 1920, 41 Stat. 437, 445, which provides"In the case of lands bona fide entered as agricultural, and
not withdrawn or classified as mineral at the time of entry, . . . the entryman or patentee, or assigns, . . . if

BOURDIEU v. PACIFIC OIL CO.
65

Opinion of the Court.

the entry has been-patented with the mineral right reserved, shall be entitled to a preference right to a permit
and to a lease, as herein provided, in case of discovery;
The bill further alleges that petitioner made a
."
bona fide entry of the land in question as agricultural;
that the land was not withdrawn or classified as mineral
at the time of his entry; that the entry was patented to
him with a reservation of oil and gas to the United States
under the provisions of the Act of July 17, 1914, 38
Stat. 509. In May, 1921, it is alleged, one of the defendants illegally and wrongfully and with knowledge of
petitioner's rights, secured a purported permit to prospect.
for oil and gas on a large tract, which included the land
described; that the issue of the permit was in violation
of petitioner's preference right and operated to deny his
right to procure a United States oil-and-gas-prospecting
permit to prospect thereon and to a lease in case of discovery, for the reason that no personal notice, as required
by regulations of the Interior Department and the provisions of the Leasing Act, or notice of any kind, was given
to petitioner, who had no notice of the issue of such purported permit until about the month of July, 1928. The
bill further alleges that Pacific Western Oil Company acqifired from the original permittee all his right, title and
interest in and to the permit, and that by reason thereof
a lease was executed by the Secretary of the Interior
to that company, granting the exclusive right to drill and
explore for oil and ranerals in said land; that such company is now the legal owner of the lease, and wrongffrlly
holds it in violation of petitioner's prior and superior
equitable rights; and that the other respondents named
have or claim,. adversely to petitioarer, some interest in
the lands-in question and the lease covering the same.
An amendment to the bill, made by stipulation of the
parties, alleges that petitioner's entry was made on Marc

b8

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

6, 1919, and patent issued to him on October 7, 1925.
Copies of the entry, with Land Office endorsements, and

of the patent are attached and made part of the bill. The
entry is in usual form and concludes, over the signature
of petitioner, with the words, "Subject to provisions and
reservations and limitations of Act of July 17, 1914,"
and was stamped by the Land Office, "Application made
in accordance with and subject to the provisions and reservations of the Act of July 17, 1914."
The patent expressly excepts and reserves to the United
States all the oil and gas in the lands patented, and to it,
or persons authorized by it, the right to prospect for, mine
and remove therefrom such oil and gas upon compliance
with the conditions and subject to the provisions and
limitations of the Act of July 17, 1914. Section 1 of that
act provides that lands withdrawn or classified as phosphate, nitrate, potash, oil, gas, or asphaltic minerals, etc.,
shall be subject to entry, if otherwise available, under the
nonmineral land laws, when made with a view of obtaining title "with a reservation to the United States of the
deposits on account of which the lands were withdrawn
or classified . . . together with the right to prospect for,
mine, and remove the same; . . . Provided, That all ap-

plications to locate, select, enter, or purchase under this
section shall state that the same are made in accordance
with and subject to the provisions and reservations of this
Act." C. 142, 38 Stat. 509.
There was also attached to the stipulation a copy of
an order of withdrawal made by the President December
30, 1910, as follows:
"It is hereby ordered that the following described lands
be, and the same are hereby withdrawn from settlement,
location, sale or entry, and reserved for classification and
in aid of legislation affecting the use and disposal of
petroleum lands belonging to the United States, subject
to all of the provisions, limitations, exceptions, and con-

BOURDIEU v. PACIFIC OIL CO.
65

Opinion of the Court.

ditions contained in the Act of Congress entitled 'An
Act to authorize the President of the United State& to
make withdrawals of public lands in certain cases,' ap.
proved June 25, 1910: . .
Among the lands described is the land here in question.
In the district court, respondents moved to dismiss the
bill on the grounds,. first, that it did not state facts
sufficient to constitute a valid cause of action in equity
or at law against them or either of them; second, that
the United States was an indispensable party to a complete determination of the suit; third, that petitioner was
guilty of laches and his cause of complaint was stale.
The district court denied the motion without prejudice
to a renewal later and, after answer by respondents, proceeded to a hearing- on the merits. After such hearing it
held that petitioner was not entitled to a preference right
nor to a lease of the lands in question; that respondents
Kettleman Oil Corporation and Pacific Western Oil Company were the owners in equal proportions of the oil and
gas lease executed by the Secretary of the Interior to the
latter company; and that petitioner be denied all relief.
An appeal followed to the court of appeals. That
court, without passing upon the merits, held that the
United States was an indispensable party, which could
not be sued, for lack of its consent, for which reason that
court and the district court were without jurisdiction;
and upon that ground it dismissed the suit. 80 F. (2d)
774
The case presented by the bill comes to this: Petitioner
asserts a preference right to prospect for oil and other
minerals and, if successful, to obtain a lease under § 20
of the Leasing Act of 1920, in virtue of his homestead
entry in 1919 and patent in 1925. It appears, however,
from the allegations of his bill and the exhibits attached
that the entry was subject to the provisions of the Act
of July 17, 1914, among which is the limitation reserving

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

to the United States all oil and minerals in the lands
entered on account of which the lands so entered had
been withdrawn or classified "together with the right to
prospect for, mine, and remove the same." The lands
here in question when entered were within the terms of
the Executive order of 1910, by which order they were
"withdrawn from settlement, location, sale .or entry, and
reserved for classification-. . ." Whether a "classification" of the lands was effected by the order we need
not determine since it is clear that they were "withdrawn" by the definite and unambiguous words of the,
order; and, as shown by the bill, it is enough to exclude
complainant from the privileges of the Act of 1920 that
the lands were either withdrawn or classified. It follows that the motion to dismiss on the first ground stated
was well taken and should have been granted and the
case ended without a hearing, which the district court
unnecessarily ordered-evidently out of abundance of
caution.
Since, plainly, the bill of complaint did not state a
cause of action, the United States could have no interest
in the case requiring its presence as a party; and the
inquiry" as to whether it was an indispensable party,
which would have been entirely prnper under a good bill,
was here wholly gratuitous.
The rule is that if the merits of the cause may be determined without prejudice to the rights of necessary parties, absent and beyond the jurisdiction of the court, it
will be done; and a court of equity will strain hard to
reach that result. West v. Randall, 2 Mason 181, 196
(opinion by Mr. Justice Story); Cole Silver Mining Co.
v. Virginia & G. H. W. Co., 1 Sawyer 685, 689 (opinion
by Mr. Justice Field); Story's Equity Pleadings, 8th ed.,
§§ 77, 96. And see Russell v. Clarke's Executors, 7
Cranch 69, 98; El-nendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152, 167168 Cf. Equity Rule 39.

BOURDIEU v. PACIFIC OIL CO.
65

Opinion of the Court.

We refer to the rule established by these authorities
because it illustrates the diligence with which courts of
equity will seek a way to adjudicate the merits of a case
in the absence of interested parties that cannot be brought
in. While the rule as A~ated is intended for the benefit
of a plaintiff whose bill sets forth a cause of action which
.he should, if possible, be given an opportunity to prove,
the principle it embodies applies with equal, if not greater,
reason to a case like this where the bill entirely fails to
do so. In such a case, the obvious reply of the court to a
suggestion that other parties are indispensable is thatsince the bill states no cause of action against anyone, the
rights of absent parties are in no way threatened bjr it,
and to enter upon a consideration of the question of their
indispensability would be a vain waste of time.
If it be urged that t he United States is an indispensable
party and, hence, that the court may not proceed even to
inquire whether the bill states a cause of action, the
answer is that good sense suggests precisely the contrary.
For a mere inspection of the bill at once discloses that it
states no cause of action and, therefore, the United States
is not an indispensablt party, since it cannot be prejudiced by, and has no interest requiring protection in, a
proceeding which at the threshold is seen to be without
substance. Nothing is to be gained by an inquiry into
the status of absent parties when it is certain upon the
face of complainant's bill that in no event will he be entitled to a decree in his favor.
We are of opinion that the court of appeals should have
disposed of the case in accordance with that view; and
that the district court should, have dismissed the bill upon
the first ground stated in respondent's motion. Upon
the question whether, upon a good bill, the United States
would be an indispensable party, we deem it unnecessary
to express an opinion.

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

299 U. S.

The decrees of both courts below must, therefore, be
reversed, and the cause remanded to the district court
with directions to enter a decree in accordance with this
opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

MISSOURI v. ROSS, TRUSTEE, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 3.

Submitted October 12, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

1. Under § 64 of the Bankruptcy Act, claims of a State and its
municipality for taxes are of equAl rank, and both are in the sixth
of the orders of priority prescribed by paragraph (b) of that section. P. 74.
2. This Court will hesitate to disturb a long and uniform construction given to a federal statute by the lower federal courts; and the
fact that the provision so construed has not been changed by
Congress, although provisions closely related to it have been
amended, imports a legislative adoption of such construction.

P. 75.
80 F. (2d), 329, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 297 U. S. 702, to review the affirmance of
an order of the bankruptcy court which confirmed an
order of the referee prorating available funds to claims of
a State and a city for taxes, denying priority to the State.

Mr. Gilbert Lamb, with whom Mr. Roy McKittrick,
Attorney General of Missouri, was on the brief, submitted
for petitioner.
Mr. Edgar H. Wayman submitted for respondents.

