MOUNTAIN STATES CO. v. COMM'N.

167

Counsel for Parties.

MOUNTAIN STATES POWER CO. v. PUBLIC SERV-

ICE COMMISSION OF MONTANA

ET AL.

APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MONTANA.

Nos. 38 and 39. Argued November 11, 1936.-Decided December 7,
1936.
1. The Act of May 14, 1934, amending par. 1, ยง 24, Jud. Code, denies
.jurisdiction to the District Court of any suit to restrain the enforcement of any order of a state commission, etc., "where jurisdiction is based solely upon the ground of diversity of citizenship,
or the repugnance of such order to the Constitution of the United
States, where such order (1) affects rates chargeable by a public
utility, (2) does not interfere with interstate commerce, and (3)
has been made after reasonable notice and hearing, and where a
plain, speedy, and efficient remedy may be had at law or in equity
in the courts of such State."
Held inapplicable to a suit in Montana, in view of Rev. Code of
Montana, 1921, ยง 3906, which purports to deny all preliminary
relief in such cases in the state courts. P. 168.
2. A "plain, speedy and efficient remedy" in the state courts cannot
be said to exist in the presence of a -state statute which denies it
and which has not been authoritatively declared unconstitutional
by the courts of the State. P. 170.
Reversed.
APPEALS

from decrees of a three-judge District Court

which dismissed, for lack of jurisdiction, two suits to set
aside orders requiring the appellant to reduce its charges
for electricity.
Mr. Hance H. Cleland, with whom Messrs. Raymond
W. Clifford, E. G. Toomey, Elisha Hanson,and Joseph A.
Cantrel were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Albert H. 'Angstman, counsel for Montana Railroad Commission, with whom Mr. Raymond T. Nagle,
Attorney General of Montana, was on the brief, for
appellees.

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Each of these causes presents the same point of law.
Appellee, Public Service Commission of Montana, issued an order requiring the appellant Company to reduce
its charges for electricity: in Baker-No. 38; also another
requiring reduction in Forsyth-No. 39. They were attacked as confiscatory by separate bills in the U. S. District Court. That court, three judges sitting, granted
motions to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction. These direct
appeals question its action.
Prior to May 14, 1934, paragraph one, ยง 24, Judicial
Code, as amended (U. S. C., Tit. 28, ยง 41), provided:
"The district courts shall have original jurisdiction as
follows:
"First. Of alh suits of a civil nature, at common law
or in equity, brought by the United States, or by any
officer thereof authorized by law to sue, or between citizens of the same State claiming lands under grants from
different States; or, where the matter in controversy exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value
of $3,000, and (a) arises under the Constitution or laws
of the United States, or treaties made, or which shall be
made, under their authority, or (b) is between citizens
of different States, or (c) is between citizens of a State
and foreign States, citizens, or subjects. . ....
On that day the so-called Johnson Act (48 Stat. c. 283,
p. 775) became effective. Section one directs:
"That the first paragraph of section 24 of the Judicial
Code, as amended, is amended by adding at the end
thereof the following: 'Notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph, no district court shall have
jurisdiction of any suit to enjoin, suspend, or restrain the
enforcement, operation, or execution of any order of an
administrative board or commission of a State, or any
rate-making body of any political subdivision thereof, or

MOUNTAIN STATES CO. v. COMM'N.
167

169

Opinion of the Court.

to enjoin, suspend, or restrain any action in compliance
with any such order, where jurisdiction is based solely
upon the ground of diversity of citizenship, or the repugnance of such order to the Constitution of the United
States, where such order (1) affects rates chargeable by
a public utility, (2) does not interfere with interstate
commerce, and (3) has been made after reasonable notice
and hearing, and where a plain, speedy, and efficient
remedy may be had at law or in equity in the courts of
such State.'"
Section 3906 Revised Codes of Montana, 1921,"Any 'party in interest being dissatisfied with an order
of the commission fixing any rate or rates, fares, charges,
classifications, joint rate or rates, or any order fixing
any regulations, practices, or services, may within ninety
days commence an action in the district court of the
proper county against the commission and other interested parties as defendants, to vacate and set aside
any such order on the ground that the rate or rates, fares,
charges, classifications, joint rate or rates, fixed'in such
order is unlawful or unreasonable, or that any such regulation, practice, or service, fixed in such order, is unlawful or unreasonable ...
"No injunction shall issue suspending or staying any
order of the commission except upon application to the
court or judge thereof, notice to the commission having
been first given and hearing having been had thereon;
provided, that all rates fixed by the commission shall
be deemed reasonable and just, and shall remain in full
force and effect until final determination by the courts
having jurisdiction. .

....

Appellees maintain that under Porter v. Investors
Syndicate, 286 U. S. 461, the inhibition of the Montana
statute, against stay or injunction prior to final determination, plainly conflicts with the Federal Constitution
and should be disregarded. Further, that when this is
eliminated'there are other'statutory provisions which per-

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

mit the state courts to issue appropriate preliminary relief.
Following Montana Power Co. v. Public Service Comm'n,
12 F. Supp. 946, the court below sustained this view.
While the inhibition has not been definitely sustained
by the Supreme Court of the State against an attack
based upon unconstitutionality, t was recognized without suggestion of disapproval in Billings Utility Co. v.
Public Service Comm'n, 62 Mont. 21, 32; 203 Pac. 366;
State ex rel. Public Service Comm'n v. Great Northern
Utilities Co., 86 Mont. 442, 446; 284 Pac. 772. And see
State ex rel. Board of RailroadComm'rs v. DistrictCourt,
53 Mont. 229, 233; 163 Pac. 115.
Except for the Johnson Act, appellant's bills of complaint would state causes of action within the jurisdiction of the Federal court. Obviously, also, the amendment relied upon has no application unless there is "a
plain, speedy and efficient remedy" in the state courts.
And we cannot conclude that such remedy exists where,
as here, a state statute definitely denying it has not been
authoritatively condemned. In the circumstances it is
impossible to know what position the courts of the State
would take. A "plain, speedy, and efficient remedy"
cannot be predicated upon the problematical outcome of
future consideration.
Porterv. Investors Syndicate, supra,-is not controlling.
Section 3906 Montana Codes was not there in question.
And while the opinion may suggest reamons for challenging its validity, the Montana courts have not spoken;
until they do we cannot treat the statute as non-existent.
The essential remedy in the state courts does not emerge
from the probability that the statute expressly prohibiting it may hereafter be declared ineffective. Paific
Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Kuykendall, 265 U. S.
Reversed.
196, 203-205.
MR. JusTicE STONE took

decision of these cases.

no part in the consideration or

