HAUGE v. CHICAGO.
Syllabus.

383

See Cornell v. Coyne, supra; American Mfg. Co. v. St.
Louis, 250 U. S. 459; Wheeler Lumber B. & S. Co. v.

United States, supra.
Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, supra, much
relied upon by petitioner, considered a tax of five per

centum of the price oltained upon sale of the article; it
rose or fell according to the amount received by the seller.
From the outset the excise there under scrutiny had been

considered by Congressional Committees and the administrative bureau as a sales tax. Here the administrative
provisions of the taxing Act indicate that Congress regarded'it as an excise on manufacture. And this view is
strengthened by provisions of the Treasury Regulations
designed to carry the statute into effect.
For the reasons indicated, the judgment below must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

HAUGE v. CHICAGO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 175. Argued December 11, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.
An ordinance of Chicago requires that commodities sold in load lots
'by weight and delivered within the city be weighed by. a public
weighmaster, and that a certificate of weight, issued by such
weighmaster,. be delivered, to the purchaser or consignee by the
driver or,person in charge of the load, before any of the' commodity is removed from the vehicle. It was conceded thn the
ordinance' Was not unreasonable as applied to dealers operating
.coal yards within the city. As construed and applied to one .de•livering within the city coal brought by truck from mines outside,
however, the ordinance necessitated unloading and reweighing
within the city, even though the coal had been Weighed at the
mines on state-tested scales. Held, not repugnant to the Fourteenth-Amendment-. P. 392."
363 Ill. 125; 1 N.E. (2d) 396, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

APPEAL from a judgment of the state supreme court
which affirmed a judgment of the trial court finding the
appellant guilty of violating a city ordinance.
Mr. Owen Rail, with whom Messrs. Thomas C. McConnell and Irwin T. Gilruth were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Martin Foss, with whom Mr. Barnet Hodes was
on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellant, while residing at Morris, Illinois, engaged in
trucking coal for hire from a mine near that place sixtytwo miles overi public roads to Chicago where he delivered
it to consumers. He both owned and drove the truck.
The Revised Statutes of Illinois, (1935) c. 24, Art. V,
§§ 54, 55, 56, 91, give cities power to regulate inspection,
weighing and measuring of coal, inspection and sealing of
weights, measures, etc. Chapter 147 provides for inspecting and sealing scales by State officers; but no law permits
designation of State weighmasters.
Chicago by ordinance has authorized the appointment
of weighmasters and prescribed their duties. Rev. Code
(1931) §§ 525, 526, 2939, 2947, 2950, 3612, 3623.
Section 29471 requires that merchandise "sold in load
1

Se6tion 2947:

"Every load of any commodity, produce or other article or articles
of merchandise sold in load lots by weight, delivered by wagon, truck
or other vehicle within the city, shall be weighed by a public weighmaster; a certificate of weight for each such load, issued by such
public weighmaster, shall be delivered by the driver or person in
charge of the wagon, truck, or other vehicle used in the delivery,
to the purchaser or consignee of such load, or to his or their agent
at the time of the delivery and before any of the commodity, produce or other article or articles of merchandise is removed from the
vehicle, or such certificates shall be delivered to the inspector nf

HAUGE v. CHICAGO.
387

389

Opinion of the Court.

lots by weight, delivered by wagon, truck or other vehicle
within the city, shall be weighed by a public weighmaster"
and that his certificate showing weights shall be delivered
to the purchaser or consignee. Section 3612 permits
appointment, as weighmaster, of anyone' owning scales
under prescribed conditions; and § 36212 fixes permissible
charges. Section 3623 8 directs: "In no case shall any
public weighmaster state in his certificate the tare weight
weights and measures, or any of his deputies upon his or their demand. When delivery is made, in case no person is present to re-

ceive such commodity, produce or other article or a.icles of merchandise, and if the purchaser or consignee, or his or their agent,
cannot be located, then the memorandum or certificate of weight
hereinbefore provided for shall be posted conspicuously at the place
of delivery before any of the commodity, produce or other article or
articles of merchandise is removed from the vehicle."
'Section 3621:
"Public weighmasters, when not the owners or sellers of the articles, commodities or produce weighed by them, shall be entitled to
charge and receive a sum not in excess of twenty-five cents for each
and every load or part of load (or lesser quantity when not contained
in any wagon, truck or other vehicle), of any commodity,, produce,
article or articles of merchandise weighed by them over the scales of
such public weighmasters."
' Section 3623:
"Each public weighmaster shall issue a weight certificate, signed
by him or his deputy, under his official seal, which certificate shall
state thereon the following: The commodity, produce, article or articles weighed; the date; the name of the weighmaster or deputy
weighmaster who did the weighing; the name and address of the
person, firm or corporation for whom the weighing was done; the
name of the driver of the vehicle bringing such commodity, produce, article or articles to the scales, or, if the same is not contained
in a vehicle, the name and address of the person bringing the same

to the scales; where contained in a vehicle, the kind of vehicle and
the name and address of the purchaser or consignee of the commodity weighed; when the commodity is loaded in a vehicle, the total or
gross weight of the commodity weighed and the conveyance in which
it is loaded, together with the driver and any other, person who may
be on the~ vehicle when weighed, and of the horses, if a horse-drawn

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

of any vehicle until after he shall have weighed the
vehicle in such manner as to secure the weight as specified
herein . . ."
The Chicago Municipal Court adjudged appellant
guilty of violating §,2947 by delivering coal trucked diredtly from the mine at Morris to a consumer in Chicago
without having obtained a weighmaster's certificate showing the gross, tare, and net weights. The coal had been
weighed at the mine upon scales duly tested by the State.
He 'claimed the ordinance, as applied to his business,
unreasonably required rehandling of coal already properly
weighed and therefore offended the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Supreme Court of Illinois affirmed the judgment
of conviction. It upheld the view that under §§ 2947 and
3623 coal brought by truck directly from the mine, to the
consumer in Chicago, although weighed at the mine on
State tested scales, must be .unloaded within the city, in
order to permit a public weighmaster there to weigh the
vehicle and the horses are weighed; the tare weight or the weight
of the vehicle, including driver and any other person who may have
been on the vehicle when weighed while loading and including the
horses if they were weighed when the loaded vehicle was weighed;
the net weight of the commodity, produce, article or articles contained in such vehicle, or the net weight of the commodity, produce,
article or articles when not contained in a vehicle at the. time of
weighing. In no case shall any public . weighmaster state in his
certificate the tare weight of any vehicle until after he shall have
weighed the vehicle in such manner as to secure the weight as specified herein;, provided, however, that in the case of a divided load, by
which is meant a load containing more than one order for the same
or different purchasers or consignees, no penalty shall be imposed
under this chapter, by reason of the fact that the tare weight shown
on the weight certificates is only the original tare weight of the
vehicle and equipment before loading if in such case each order has
beenweighed separately and the net weight of each separate order
or d'elivery is correctly shown on the weight certificate and such
correct net weight is delivered."

HAUGE v. CHICAGO.
387

Opinion of the Court.

empty truck, and then reloaded so that both truck and
load may be weighed by the same official. The prescribed
certificate can issue only after such double weighing.
The Court declared that so construed the ordinance
did not conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment; and
that ruling is the basis for the only question presented for
our determination. Violation of the ordinance as written is admitted. Also that it is not unreasonable as
applied to dealers operating coal yards within Chicago.
Counsel maintain that appellant's business differs materially from the business of those who operate local coal
unreasonable in
yards; that the questioned ordinance is,
requiring coal weighed upon State inspected scales to be
unloaded and reweighed before delivery, since weights
could be adequately verified by practical .aethods not
involving this expensive and burdensome proceeding; also
that thezordinance unduly discriminates between those
who truck coal directly from the mine and dealers with
yards within the city..
In Chicago v. Wisconsin Lime Co., (1924) 312 Ill. 520;
144 N. E. 3, the Supreme Court affirmed the power- of
Chicago to enact the challenged ordinance and pointed
out that it "was designed to protect the purchasing public,
against what. has been universally regarded as a wide-'
spread evil in the selling of commodities in load lots by
weight and it contained effective means for. the prevention of the evil."
Below, that Court said: "The opportunity to defraud
the consumer in the sale of coal in load lots. is great and
the consumer has no adequate way to protect himself
against'being cheated. The delivery of tru6 weights of
coal- to the .consumer is a matter clearly related to the
public.welfare and the city has tlm 'right to adopt reasonable ordinance therefor." "The defendants,. non-tesi6eixts of the city 6f Chicago, are asking for a practice of
weighing; as applied to the business done by them in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U.S.

city, which under the ordinance here would not apply to
those truckers living in the city and delivering coal from
the local yards or local dealers in the city to the consumer."
"Where a city has enacted an ordinance within its charter
or granted powers regulating a business, the non-residents
who desire to follow such business within such municipality must conform to the requirements of the ordinance."
For many years, by admission, Chicago has rightly
required local truckmen to comply with the ordinance.
Since the evil to be prevented is no less imminent when
coal comes by truck from without the city, a like requirement as to this seems equally important. The ordinance
makes no discrimination of which appellant can complain;
and no adequate reason has been suggested for concluding
that although valid as to local truckers it violates rights
guaranteed to him by the Fourteenth Amendment.
That the coal delivered by appellant was weighed at the
mine on tested scales is stressed; but this is not really
material. Chicago had no control there and such weighing afforded no adequate protection against fraud. The
opportunities for manipulation thereafter are obvious.
Invalidity of the ordinance cannot be established by suggesting some other less burdensome procedure, which
possibly might accomplish the end in view-honest delivery weights. The city may act with proper legislative
discretion. Here there is nothing to show action so arbitrary, unreasonable or discriminatory as to require us to
overthrow its deliberate effort to meet a plain evil. Rast
v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342, 357; Armour &
Co. v. North Dakota, 240 U. S.510, 513, 515; Nashville,
C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Walters, 294 U. S. 405, 415.
The challenged judgment must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

