DE JONGE v. OREGON.
Syllabus.

334

containing convict-made goods to be labeled as required
by section two. The requirement of labels, disclosing the
nature of the contents, the name and location of the penal
institution where the goods were produced, and the names
and addresses of shippers and consignees, was manifestly
reasonable and appropriate for the carrying out of the
prohibition. Seven Cases v. United States, supra; United
States v. Freeman, 239 U. S. 117; Weeks v. United States,
245 U. S. 618, 622. The fact that the labeling was required
in all shipments of convict-made goods, regardless of the
law of the State of destination, does not invalidate the
provision, as its scope could reasonably be deemed to be
necessary to accomplish the legitimate purpose of the Act.
Otis v. Parker, 187 U. S. 606, 609; New York ex rel. Silz v.
Hesterberg,211 U. S. 31, 40; Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch,
226 U. S. 192, 201; Everard's Breweries v. Day, 265 U. S.
545, 560.
The decree is
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
DE JONQE v. OREGON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OREGON.

No. 123.

Argued December 9, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.

1. The practice of substituting for the evidence a stipulation of facts
not shown to have received the approval of the court below, is
disapproved. P. 358.
2. Upon appeal from a judgment of a state supreme court sustaining a conviction, this Court in this case takes the indictment as
construed by the court below. P. 360.
3. Criminal punishment under a state statute for participation in
the conduct of a public meeting, otherwise lawful, merely because
the meeting was held under the auspices of an organization which

teaches or advocates the use of violence, or other unlawful acts

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Appellee.

299 U. S.

or methods to effect industrial or political change or revolution,
though no such teaching or advocacy attended the meeting in
question, violates the constitutional principles of free speech and
assembly. P. 362.
The Criminal Syndicalism Law of Oregon, as applied in this
case, is invalid.
4. The rights of free speech and peaceable assembly are fundamental rights which are safeguarded against state interference by
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 364.
5. The fact that these rights are guaranteed specifically by the First
Amendment.against abridgment by Congress, does not argue their
exclusion from the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. I'.
6. The legislature may protect against abuses of the rights of free
speech and assembly by dealing with the abuses; the rights themselves must not'be curtailed. Id.
152 Ore. 315; 51 P. (2d) 674, reversed.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a conviction under the
Criminal Syndicalism Law of Oregon.
Mr. Osmond K. Fraenkel, with whom Mr. Gus J. Solomon was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Maurice E. Tarshis, Deputy District Attorney,
Multnomah County, with whom Mr. James R. Bain,
District Attorney, and Mr. Willis S. Moore, Assistant
Attorney General of Oregon, were on the brief, for appellee.
The Act as applied to this case is definite and certain
and is constitutional. Whitney v. Caiifornia, 274 U. S.
357, 368; Connally v. General ConstructionCo., 269 U. S.
385,'391; Miller v. Strahl, 239 U. S. 426, 434; Nash v.
United States, 229 U. S. 373, 377; Waters-Pierce Oil Co.
v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86, 108; State v. Hennessy, 114 Wash.
351; State v. Laundy, 103 Ore. 443, 463; People v. Ruthenberg, 229 Mich. 315; People .v. Steelik, 187 Cal: 361,
373; People v. Lloyd, 304 Ill. 23, 35; State v. Dingman,
37 Idaho 253, 265; Berg v. State, 29 Okla. Cr. Rep. 112,

DE JONGE v. OREGON.
353

Argument for Appellee.

121; State v. Worker's Socialist Publishing Co., 150 Minn.
406, 407.
The statute explicitly informs every person subject to
the jurisdiction of the courts of Oregon that he commits
the crime of criminal syndicalism if he presides at, conducts, or assists in conducting a meeting of an organization or group which teaches or advocates criminal syndicalism or sabotage.
The statute does not prohibit peaceful and orderly opposition to government, but only such conduct as may
tend to incite to crime, disturb the public peace, or endanger the foundation of organized government and
threaten its overthrow by unlawful means.
The right of free speech and assembly is not absolute.
A State, in the exercise of its police power, may punish
those who abuse this freedom by utterances of the kind
aimed at by this statute.
The case is ruled by Gitlow v. Neu5 York, 268 V. S. 652;
and Whitney v. California,274 U. S. 357.
See Herndon v. Georgia,295 U. S. 441; Carr v. Georgia,
176 Ga. 747.
The State has determined, through its legislative body,
that to preside at, conduct, or assist in conducting a meeting of an organization which has as its objective the
advocacy, teaching or affirmative suggestion of crime,
sabotage or violence as a means of affecting a change or
revolution in industry or government, involves such
dangers to the public peace and the security of the State,
that these acts should be penalized in the exercise of its
police power. That determination must be given great
weight. Every presumption is to be indulged in favor of
validity. Whitney v. California, supra; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661. To be unconstitutional, the Act
must be arbitrary or unreasonable. Whitney v. California, supra; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Clara City, 246

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.

356

Opinion of the Court.

299 U.S.

U. S. 434, 439. Its wisdom is not for the courts. Fox v.
Washington, 236 U. S. 273, 273; State v. Bolof], 138 Ore.
568, 611.
The sole purpose of the Act is to prevent the advocacy
or use of violence by forbidding anyone t6 preside at,
conduct or assist in conducting a meeting of an organization which teaches it. Laws of this type are founded
upon the principle that morons, especially those who
are class conscious, and who believe that men in high
places got there through imposition upon the toilers, are
likely to translate into action the words of their voluble
leades. The will of the schemer is often carried out by
the acts of the unthinking. State v. Bolof], supra, p. 622.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Appellant, Dirk De Jonge, was indicted in Multnomah
County, Oregon, for violation of the Criminal Syndicalism Law of that State.1 The Act, which we set forth in
'Oregon

Code, 1930, §§ 14-3110-3112-as amended by chapter

459, Oregon Laws, 1933:
"Section 14-3110. Criminal syndicalism hereby is defined to be the
doctrine which advocates crime, physical violence, sabotage, or any
unlawful acts or methods as a means of accomplishing or effecting
industrial or political change or revolution.
"Section 14-3111. Sabotage hereby is defined to be intentional and
unlawful damage, injury or destruction of real or personal property.
"Section 14-3112. Any person who, by word of mouth or writing,
advocates or teaches the doctrine of criminal syndicalism, or sabotage, or who prints, publishes, edits, issues or knowingly circulates,
sells, distributes or publicly displays any books, pamphlets, paper,
hand-bill, poster, document or written or printed matter in any
form whatsoever, containing matter advocating criminal syndicalism,
or sabotage, or who shall organize or help to organize, or solicit or
accept any person to become a member of any society or assemblage
of persons which teaches or advocates the doctrine of criminal syndicalism, or sabotage, or any person who shall orally or by writing or
by printed matter call together or who shall distribute or circulate

DE JONGE v. OREGON.
353

Opinion of the Court.

the margin, defines "criminal syndicnlism" as "the doctrine which advocates crime, physical violence, sabotage
or any unlawful acts or methods as a means of accomplishing or effecting industrial or political change or revolution." With this preliminary definition the Act proceeds to describe a number of offenses, embracing the
tgaching of criminal syndicalism, the printing or distribution of books, pamphlets, 'etc., advocating that doctrine,
the organization of a society or assemblage which advocates it, and presiding at or assisting in conducting a
meeting of such an organization, society or group. The
prohibited acts are made felonies, punishable by imprisonment for not less than one year nor more than ten
years, or by a fine of not more than $1,000, or by both.
We are concerned with but one of the described offenses
and with the validity of the statute in this particular
application. The charge is that appellant assisted in the
conduct of a, meeting which was called under the auspices
of the Communist Party, an organization advocating
criminal syndicalism. The defense was that the meeting
was public and orderly and was held for a lawful purpose;
that while it was held under the auspices of the Communist Party, neither criminal syndicalism nor any unlawful conduct was taught or advocated at the meeting
either by appellant or by others. Appellant moved for
a direction of acquittal, contending that the statute as
applied to him, for merely assisting at a meeting called
by the Communist Party at which nothing unlawful was
done or advocated, violated the due process clause of the
written or printed matter calling together or who shall preside at

or conduct or assist in conducting any assemblage of persons, or any
organization, or any society, or any group which teaches or advocates the doctrine of criminal syndicalism or sabotage is guilty of
a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment in the state penitentiary for a term of not less than one year
nor more than ten years, or by a fine of not more than $1,000, or by
both such imprisonment and fine."

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
'States.
This contention was overruled. Appellant was found
guilty as charged and was sentenced to imprisonment for
seven years. The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State, 'which considered the constitutional
question ana sustained the statute as thus applied. 152
Ore. 315; 51 P. (2d) 674. The case comes here on appeal.
The record does not present the evidence adduced at
the trial. The parties have substituted a stipulation of
facts which was made and filed after the decision of the
Supreme Court of the State and after the Chief Justice
of that court had allowed the appeal and had directed
transmission here of a certified transcript of the record.
We do not approve of that practice, where it does not
appear that the stipulation has received the approval of
the court, as we think that adherence to our rule as to
the preparation of records is important for the protection
of the court whose decision is under review as well as of
this Court. See Rule 10. But as the question presented
in this instance does not turn upon an appreciation
of tlhe facts on any disputed point, we turn to
the merits.
The stipulation, after setting forth the charging part
9f- the indictment, recites in substance the following:
That on July 27, 1934, there was held in Portland, a meeting which had been advertised by handbills issued by the
Portland section of the Communist Party; that the number of persons in attendance was variously estimated at
from 150 to 300; that some of those present, who were
members of the Communist Party, estimated that not to
were
exceed ten to fiften per cent. of those in attendance
such members; that the meeting was open to the public
without charge and-no questions were asked of those
entering, with respect to their relation to the Communist
Party; that the notice of the meeting advertised it as a

DE JONGE v. OREGON.
353

Opinion of the Court.

protest against illegal raids on workers' halls and homes
and against the shooting of striking longshoremen by
Portland police; that the chairman stated that it was a
meeting held by the Communist Party; that the first
speaker dwelt on the activities of the Young Communist
League; that the defendant De.Jonge, the second speaker,
was a member of the Communist Party and went to the
meeting to speak in its name; that in his talk he protested
against conditions in the county jail, the action of city
police in relation to the maritime strike then in progress
in Portland and numerous other matters; that he discussed the reason for the raids on the Communist headquarters and workers' halls and offices; that he told the
workers that these attacks were due to efforts on the part
of the steamship companies and stevedoring companies to
break the maritime longshoremen's and seamen's strike;
that they hoped to break the strike by pitting the longshoremen and seamen against the Communist movement;
that there wa also testimony to the effect that defendant
asked those present to do more work in obtaining members for the Communist Party and requested all to be at
the meeting of the party to be held in Portland on the following evening and to bring their friends to show their',
defiance to local police authority and to assist them in
their revolutionary -tactics; that there was also testimony
that defendant urged the purchase of certairi communist
literature which was sold at the meeting; that while the
meeting was still in progress it was raided by the police;
that the meeting was conducted in an orderly manner;
that defendant and several others who were actively conducting the meeting were arrested by the police and that
on searching the hall the police found a quantity of
commdnist literature.
The stipulation then set forth various extracts from the
literature of the Communist Party to show its advocacy of
criminal syndicalism. The stipulation does not disclose

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

any activity by the defendant as a basis for his prosecution
other than his participation in the meeting in question.
Nor does the stipulation show that the communist literature distributed at the meeting contained any advocacy
of criminal syndicalism or of any unlawful conduct. It
was admitted by the Attorney General of the State in his
argument at the bar of this Court that the literature distributed in the meeting was not of that sort and, that the
extracts contained in the stipulation were taken from comniunist literature found elsewhere. Its introduction in
evidence was for the purpose of showing that the Comniunist Party as such did advocate the doctrine of criminal
syndicalism, a fact which is not disputed on this appeal.
While the stipulation of facts is but a condensed statement, still much of it is irrelevant in the light of the particular charge of the indictment as construed by the
Supreme Court. The indictment charged as follows:
"The said Dirk De Jonge, Don Cluster, Edward R.
Denny and Earl Stewart on the 27th day of July, A. D.,
1934, in the county of Multnomah and State of Oregon,
then and the'e being, did then and there unlawfully and
feloniously preside at, conduct and assist in conducting an
assemblage of persons, organization, society and group, towit: The Communist Party, a more particular description of which said assemblage of persons, organization,
society and group is to this grand jury unknown, which
said assemblage of persons, organization, society and
group did then and there, unlawfully and feloniously
teach and advocate the doctrine of criminal syndicalism
and sabotage, contrary to the statu-es in such cases made
and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the
State of Oregon."
On the theory that this was a charge that criminal
syndicalism and sabotage were advocated at the meeting
in question, defendant moved for acquittal insisting that
the evidence was insufficient to warrant his conviction.

DE JONGE v. OREGON.
353

Opinion of the Court.

The trial court denied his motion and error in this respect
was assigned on appeal. The Supreme Court of the State
put aside that contention by ruling that the indictment
did not charge that criminal syndicalism or sabotage was
advocated at the meeting described in the evidence, either
by defendant or by anyone else. The words of the indictment that "said assemblage of persons, organization, society and group did then and there unlawfully and feloniously teach and advocate the doctrine of criminal syndicalism and sabotage," referred not to the meeting in
question, or to anything then and there said or done by
defendant or others, but to the advocacy of criminal
syndicalism and sabotage by the Communist Party in
Multnomah County. The ruling of the state court upon
this point was precise. The court said (152 Ore. p. 330):
"Turning now to the grounds for a directed verdict set
forth in defendant's motion therefor, we note that he
asserts and argues that the indictment charges the assemblage at which he spoke with unlawfully and feloniously
teaching and advocating the doctrine of criminal syndicalism and sabotage, and elsewhere in the same motion he
contends that the indictment charges the defendant with
unlawfully and feloniously teaching and advocating said
doctrine at said meeting. The'indictment does not, however, charge the defendant, nor the assemblage at,which he
spoke, with teaching or advocating at said meetii~g at 68
Southwest Alder street, in the city of Portland, the doctrine of criminal syndicalism or sabotage. What the
indictment does charge, in plain and concise language, is
that the defendant presided at, conducted and assisted in
conducting an assemblage of persons, organization, society
and group, to-wit, the Communist party, which said assemblage of persons, organization, society and group was
unlawfully teaching and advocating in Multnomah county
the doctrine of criminal syndicalism and sabotage."
In this view, lack of sufficient eyidence as to illegal
advocacy or action at the meeting became immaterial.

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Having limited the charge to defendant's participation in
a meeting called by the Communist Party, the state court
sustained the conviction upon that basis regardless of
what was said or done at the meeting.
We must take the indictment as th us construed. Conviction upon a charge not made would be sheer denial of
due process. It thus appears that, while defendant was
a member of the Communist Party, he was not indicted
for participating in its organization, or for joining it, or
for soliciting members or for distributing its literature.
He was not charged with teaching or advocating criminal
syndicalism or sabotage or any unlawful acts, either at
the meeting or elsewhere. He was accordingly deprived
of the benefit of evidence as to the orderly and lawful
conduct of the meeting and that it was not called or used
for the advocacy of criminal syndicalism or sabotage or
any unlawful action. His sole offense as charged, and for
which he was convicted and sentenced to imprisonment
for seven years, was that he had assisted in the conduct
of a public meeting, albeit otherwise lawful, which was
held under the auspices of the Communist Party.
The broad reach of the statute as thus applied is
plain. While defendant was a member of the Communist Party, that membership was not necessary to conviction on such a charge. A like fate might have attended
any speaker, although not a member, who "assisted in the
conduct" of the meeting. However innocuous the object
of the meeting, however lawful the subjects and tenor of
the addresses, however reasonable and timely the discussion, all those asisting in the conduct of the meeting
would be subject to imprisonment as felons if the meeting were held by the Communist Party. This manifest
result was brought out sharply at this bar by the concessiens which the Attorney General made, and could not
avoid, in the light of the decision of the state court.

DE JONGE v. OREGON.
353

363

Opinion of the Court.

Thus if the Communist Party had called a public meeting in Portland to discuss the tariff, or the foreign policy
of the Government, or taxation, or relief, or candidacies
for the offices of President, members of Congress, Governor, or state legislators, every speaker who assisted in
the conduct of the meeting would be equally guilty with
the defendant in this case, upon the charge as here defined and sustained. The list of illustrations might be
indefinitely extended to every variety of meetings under
the auspices of the Communist Party although held for
the discussion of political issues or to adopt protests and
pass resolutions of an entirely innocent and proper
character.
While the States are entitled to protect themselves
from the abuse of the privileges of our institutions
through an attempted substitution of force and 4iolence
in the place of peaceful political action in order to effect
revolutionary changes in government, none of our decisions go to the length of sustaining such a curtailment, of
the right of free speech and assembly as the Oregon statute demands in its present application. In Gitlow v.
New York, 268 U. S. 652, under the New York statutedefining criminal anarchy, the defenclant was found to-be
responsible for a "manifesto" advocating the overthrow of
the government by violence and unlawful means. 'Id.,
pp. 656, 662, 663. In Whitney V. California, 274 U. S.
357, under the California statute relating to criminal
syndicalism, the defendant was found guilty of wilfully
and deliberately assisting in the formihg of an organization for the purpose of-carrying on a revolutionary class
struggle by criminal methods. The defendant was con-'
victed of participation in what amounted to a conspiracy
to commit serious crimes. Id., pp. 363, 364, 367, 379.
The case of Burns v. United States, 274 U. S. 328, involved a similar ruling under the California statute as

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

extended to the Yosemite National Park. Id., pp. 330,
331. On the other hand, in Fiske v. Kansas, 274 U. S.

380, the criminal syndicalism act of that State was held
to have been applied unconstitutionally and the judg-

ment of conviction was reversed, where it was not shown
that unlawftl methods had been advocated. Id., p. 387.
See, also, Stromberg v. California,283 U. S.359.
Freedom of speech and of the press are fundamental
rights which are safeguarded by the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution.
Gitlow v. New York, supra, p. 666; Stromberg v. California, supra, p. 368; Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697,
707; Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, 243,
244. The right of peaceable assembly is a right cognate
to those of free. speech and free press and is equally fundamental. As this Court said in United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 552: "The very idea of a government,
republican in form, implies a right on the part of its citizens to meet peaceably for consultation in respect to public affairs and to petition for a redress of grievances."
The First Amendment of the Federal Constitution expressly guarantees that right against abridgment by
Congress. But explicit mention there does not argue
exclusion elsewhere. For the right is one that cannot be
denied without violating those fundamental principles of
liberty and justice which lie at th- base of all civil and
political institutions,-principles which the Fourteenth
Amendment embodies in the general terms of its due
process clause. Hebert v. Louisiana, 272 U. S.312, 316;
Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S.45, 67; Grosjean v. American Press Co., supra.
These rights may be abused by using speech or press
or assembly in order to incite to violence and crime. The
people through their legislatures may protect themselves
against that abuse. But the legislative intervention can
find constitutional justification only by dealing with the

DE JONGE v. OREGON.
353

Opinion of the Court.

abuse. The rights themselves must not be curtailed.
The greater the importance of safeguarding the comrmunity from incitements to the overthrow of our institutions by force and violence, the more imperative is the
need to preserve inviolate the constitutional rights of free
speech, free press and free assembly in order to maintain
the opportunity for free political discussion, to the end
that government may be responsive to the will of the
people and that changes, if desired, may be obtained by
peaceful means. Therein lies the security of the Republic, the very foundation of constitutional government.
It follows from these considerations that, consistently
with the Federal Constitution, peaceable assembly for
lawful discussion cannot be made a crime. The holding
of meetings for peaceable political action cannot be proscribed. Those who assist in the conduct of such meetings
cannot be branded as criminals on that score. The question, if the rights of free speech and peaceable assembly
are to be preserved, is not as to the auspices under which
the meeting is held but as to its purpose; not as to the
relations of the speakers, but whether their utterances
transcend the bounds of the freedom of speech which the
Constitution protects. If the persons assembling have
committed crimes elsewhere, if they have formed or are
engaged in a conspiracy against the public peace and
order, they may be prosecuted for their conspiracy or
other violation of valid laws. But it is a different matter
when the State, instead of prosecuting them for such
offenses, seizes upon mere participation in a peaceable
assembly and a lawful public discussion as the basis for a
criminal charge.
We are not called upon to review the findings of the
state court as to the objectives of the Communist Party.
Notwithstanding those objectives, the defendant still enjoyed his personal right of free speech and to take part in
a peaceable assembly having a lawful purpose,. although

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

called by that Party. The defendant was none the less
entitled to discuss the public issues of the day and thus in
a lawful manner, without incitement to violence or crime,
to seek redress of alleged grievances. That was of *the
essence of his guaranteed personal liberty.
We hold that the Oregon statute as applied to the particular charge as defined by the state court is repugnant
to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The judgment of conviction is reversed and the cause is
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.

NEW YORK

EX REL.

WHITNEY v. GRAVES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 21S.

Argued December 18, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.

1. An intangible property right may have a "businest situs" in a
State for tax purposes either because the right grows out of the
actual transactions of a business there localized, or because its
exercise is fixed there, eKelusively or dominantly. P. 371.
2. A non-resident of New York, owning a seat in the New York
Stock Exchange, who, by its rules, is privileged personally to
buy and sell securities in the market it affords only by going upon
tlX floor of the Exchange in New York, is taxable in New York
upon the profits derived by him from the sale of a "right" in a
new membership appurtenant to his old one, although he may
have no office or abode in New York and may fill all the orders
of his customers for purchase or sale of securities by sending the
orders to New York for execution on the floor of the Exchange
by fellow members. P. 372.
271. N Y. 594; :3 N. E. (2d) 201; 271 N. Y. 618, 3 N. E. (2d) 213,
affirned.

