VALENTINE v. U. S.

EX REL.

NEIDECKER.

5

Statement of the Case.
VALENTINE, POLICE COMMISSIONER OF NEW
YORK CITY, ET AL. v. UNITED STATES EX REL.
B. COLES NEIDECKER.#
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 6.

Argued October 12, 13, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

1. The Executive has no power to extradite fugitive criminals save
such as is conferred by treaty or by Act of Congress. P. 7.
2. The Act of Congress defining the procedure in extradition cases
confers no power on the Executive to surrender any person t6
a foreign government where no extradition treaty or convention
provides for such surrender. P. 9.
3. By Article I of the'extradition treaty (1909) with France, the
two governments mutually agree to deliver up "persons" charged
with any of the spetified offenses. Article V declares that neither
party "shall be bound"' to deliver up its own citizens under the
stipulations of the convention. Held:
(1) That citizens of the respective patties are thus excepted
from the agreement to deliver. -P. 10.
• (2) No grant to our Executive of discretionary power to surrender citizens of the United States can be implied from anything
in the treaty, Id.
(3) History and practice negative the existence of such implied
discretionary power. P. 13.
81 F. (2d) 32, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 298 U. S. 647, to review judgments which
reversed judgments of the District Court dismissing writs
of habeas corpus sued out by the respondents and remanding them to the custody in which they were held 'under
preliminary warrants of extradition.
* Together with No. 7, Valentine, Police Commissioner, et al. v.

U. S. ex rel. George TV. Neidecker; and No. 8, Valentine, Police
Commissioner, et al. v. U. S. ex rel. Aubrey Neidecker. On writs of
certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Mr. Porter R. Chandler for petitioners.
Mr. Frederic R. Coudert, Jr., with whom Messrs.
Frederic R. Coudert and Mahlon B. Doing were on the
brief, for respondents.
MR.CHIEF JUSTicE HUGHES

delivered the opinio

of

the Court.
Respondents sued out writs of habeas corpus to prevent
their extradition to France under the Treaty of 1909. 37
Stat. 1526. They are native-born citizens of the United
States and are charged with the commission of crimes in
France which are among the extraditable offenses specified in the treaty. Having fled to the United States,
they were arrested in New York City, on the request of
the French authorities, under a preliminary warrant issued by a United States Commissioner and were held for
extradition proceedings. By the writs of habeas corpus
the jurisdiction of the Commissioner was challenged upon
the ground that because the treaty excepted citizens of
the United States, the President had no constitutional
authority to surrender the respondents to the French Republic.
The controlling provisions of the treaty care as follows:
"Article I. The Government of the United States and
the Government of France mutually agree to deliver up
persons who, having been charged with or convicted of
any of the crimes or offences specified in the following
article, committed within the jurisdiction of one of the
contracting Parties, shall seek an asylum or be found
within the territories of the other: Provided That this
shall only be done upon such evidence of criminality as,
according to the laws of the place where the fugitive or
person so charged shall be found, would justify his or her

VALENTINE v. U. S.
5

EX REL.

NEIDECKER.

7

Opinion of the Court.

apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime or
offence had been there committed.
"Article V. Neither of the contracting Parties shall be
bound to deliver up its own citizens or subjects under
the stipulations of this convention."
The Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing the orders of
the District Judge, sustained the contention of the repondents and directed their discharge.- 81 F. (2d) 32.
This Court granted certiorari.
First. The question is not one of policy, but of legal
authority. The United States has favored the extradition of nationals of the asylum state and has soughtfrequently 'without success-to negotiate treaties of extradition including them.' Several of our treaties have
made no exception of nationals.2 This is true of the
treaties with Great Britain from the beginning, of the
treaty with France of 1843, and of that with Italy of 1868.
Charlton v' Kelly, 229 U. S. 447, 467. Where treaties
have provided for the extradition of persons without exception, the United States has always construed its obligation as embracing its citizens. Id., p. 468. In the
opinion in Charlton v. Kelly we alluded to the fact that
it had "come to be the practice with a preponderant number of nations to refuse to deliver its citizens" and it was
observed that this exception was of modern origin. The
'Moore, Int. Law Dig., vol. IV, § 594; Moore on Extradition, vol.
I, pp. 159-162.
'Great Britain, 1794, Art. XXVII, 1 -Malloy, Treaties, p. 605; 1842)
Art. X, id., p. 655; 1889, id., p. 740; 1931, 47 Stat. 2122; France,
1843, 1 Malloy, p. 526; Italy, 1868, Id., p. 966. See, also, Switzerland, 1850, Art. XIII, 2 Malloy, p. 1767; Venezuela, 1860, Art.
XXVII, 2 Malloy, p. 1854; Dominican Republic, 1867, Art. XXVII,
1 Malloy, p. 413; Nicaragua, 1870, 2 Malloy, p. 1287; Orange Free
State, 1871, Article VIII, 2 Malloy, p. 1312; Ecuador, 1872, 1 Malloy,
p. 436.

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

beginning of the exemption was traced to the practice
between France and the Low Countries in the eighteenth
century. And we found that owing "to the existence in
the municipal law of many nations of provisions prohibiting the extradition of citizens, the United States has in
several of its extradition treaties clauses exempting citizens from their obligation." Accordingly we divided the
treaties in force into two classes, "those which expressly
exempt citizens and those which do not." Id., pp. 466,
467.
The effect of the exception of citizens in the treaty with
France of 1909-now under consideration-must be determined in the light of the principles which inhere in
our constitutional system. The desirability-frequently
asserted by the representatives of our Government and
demonstrated by their arguments and the discussions of
jurists-of providing for the extradition of nationals of
the asylum state is not a substitute for constitutional
authority. The surrender of its citizens by the Government of the United States must find its sanction in our
law.
It cannot be doubted that the power to provide for
extradition isa national power; it pertains to the national
government and not to the States. United States v.
Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407, 412-414. But, albeit a national
power, it is not confided to the Executive in the absence
of treaty or legislative provision. At the very beginning,
Mr. Jefferson, as Secretary of State, advised the Presi-.
dart: "The laws of the United States, like those of
England, receive every fugitive, and no authority has
been given to their Executives to deliver them up." ' As
stated by John Bassett Moore in his treatise on Extradition--summarizing the precedents--"the general opinion
'Quoted in Moore on Extradition, vol. I, pp. 22, 23;-Moore, Int.
!tw Dig., vol. IV, p. 246.

VALENTINE v. U. S.
5

EX EL.

NEIDECKER.

9

Opinion of the Court'

has been, and practice has been in accordance with it,
that in the absence of a conventional or legislative provision, there is no authority vested in any department of
the government to seize a fugitive criminal and surrender
him to a foreign power." ' Counsel for the petitioners do
not challenge the soundness of this general opinion and
practice. It rests upon the fundamental consideration
that the Constitution creates no executive prerogative
to dispose of the liberty of the individual. Proceedings
against him must be authorized by law. There is no
executive discretion to surrender him to a foreign government, unless that discretion is granted by law. It necessarily follows that as the legal authority does not exist
save as it is given by act of Congress or by the terms of
a treaty, it is not enough that statute or treaty does not
deny the power to surrender. It must be found that
statute or treaty confers the power.
Second. Whatever may be the power of the Congress
to provide for extradition independent of treaty, that
power has not been exercised save in relation to a foreign
country or territory "occupied by or under the control of
the United States." Act of June 6, 1900, c. 793, 31 Stat.
656. 18 U. S. C. 652. See Neely v. Henkel, 180 U. S.
109, 122. Aside from that limited provision, the Act of
Congress relating to extradition simply defines the procedure to carry out an existing. extradition treaty or
convention.5
The provision is that-"Whenever there is a treaty or
convention for extradition between the Government of
the United States and any foreign government"-a prodeeding may be instituted to procure the surrender of a
person charged with the commission of a crime specified
in the treaty or convention. Upon the apprehension of
'Moore on Extradition, vol. I, p. 21.
'Moore on Extradition, vol. I, p. 50.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

the accused, he is entitled to a hearing and, upon evidence
deemed to be sufficient to sustain the charge "under the
provisions of the proper treaty or convention," the charge
with the evidence is to be certified to the Secretary of
State to the end that a warrant may issue upon the requisition of the proper authorities of such foreign government, "for the surrender of such person, according to the
stipulations of the treaty or convention." R. S. 5270;
18 U. S. C. 651.
It is manifest that the Act does not attempt to confer
power upon the Executive to surrender any person, much
less a citizen of 'the United States, to a foreign government where an extradition treaty or convention does not
provide for such surrender. The question, then, is the
narrow one whether the power to surrender the respondents in this instance is conferred by the treaty itself.
Third.-It is a familiar rule that the obligations of
treaties should be liberally construed so as to give effect
to the apparent intention of the parties. Tucker v. Alexandroif, 183 U. S. 424, 437; Jordan v. Tashiro, 278 U. S.
123, 127; Factorv. Laubenheimer,290 U. S. 276, 293, 294.
But, in this instance, there is no question for construction
so far as the obligations of the treaty are concerned. The
treaty is explicit in the denial of any obligation to surrender citizens of the asylum state--"Neither of the
*ontracting Parties shall be bound to deliver up. it'
own citizens."
Does the treaty, while denying act obligation in such
ease, contain a grant of power to surrender a citizen of the
United States in the discretion of the Executive? The
Constitution declares a treaty to be the law of the land?
It is consequently, as Chief Justice Marshall said in Foster
v. Neilson, 2 Pet. 253, 314, "to be regarded in courts of
justice as equivalent to an act of the legislature, whenever
it operates of itself without the aid of any legislative provision." See, also, Head Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 598;

VALENTINE v. U. S.

EX REL.

NEIDECKER.

11

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Rauscher, supra, p. 418. Examining the
treaty in that aspect, it is our duty to interpret it according to its terms. These must be fairly construed, but we
cannot add to or detract from them.
Obviously the treaty contains no express grant of the
power now invoked. Petitioners point to Article I which
states that the two governments "mutually agree to deliver up persons" who are charged with any of the specified offences. Petitioners urge that the word "persIon"
includes citizens of the asylum state as well as all others.
But Article I is the agreement to deliver. It imposes the
obligation of that agreement. Article I does not purport
to grant any power to surrender save as the power is related to and derived from that obligation. The word
"persons" in Article I describes those who fall within the
agreement and with respect to whom the obligation is
assumed. As Article V provides that there shall be no
obligation on the part of either party to deliver up its
own citizens, the latter are necessarily excepted from the
agreement in Article I and from the "persons" there described. The fact that the exception is contained in a
separate article does not alter its effect. That effect is
precisely the same as though Article I had read that the
two governments "mutually agree to deliver- up persons
except its own citizens or subjects."
May a grant to the Executive of discretionary power to
surrender citizens of the United States be implied? Petitioners seek to find ground for this implication by comparing the expression in Article V "Neither of the contracting parties shall be bound," in relation to the surrender of citizens, with the phrase in Article VI that "A
fugitive criminal shall not be surrendered" if the offence
charged is of a political character, and the clause in Article VIII that extradition "shall not be granted" where
prosecution is barred by limitation according to the laws
of the asylum country. This difference in the phrasing

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

of denials of obligation would be at the best an extremely
tenuous basis for. implying a power which ini order to exist
must be affirmatively granted. Of far greater significance
is the fact that a familiar clause-found in several of our
treaties-which qualifies the exception of citizens by expressly conferring discretionary power to surrender them
was omitted in the treaty with France.
The treaty with Japan of 1886 provided in Article
VII a"Neither of the contracting parties shall be bound to
deliver up its own citizens or subjects under the stipulations of this convention, but they shall have the power to
deliver them up if in their discretion it be deemed proper
to do so."
A similar provision is found in the extradition treaties
with the Argentine Republic, of 1896, and with the
Orange Free State, of 1896.' The treaties with Mexico,
of 1899, with Guatemala, of 1903, with Nicaragua, of 1905,
and with Uruguay, of 1905, expressly lodge the discretionary power with the "executive authority." Thus in
the treaty with Mexico of 1899 we find the following
article (Art. IV):
"Neither of the contracting parties shall be bound to
deliver up its own citizens under the stipulations of this
convention, but the executive authority of each shall have
'1 Malloy, 1027.

Quoted in Charltonv. Kelly, 229 U. S. 447, 467.
T provision of the treaty with" the Argentine Republic, 1896,
The
Art. 3, 1 Malloy, 26, is as follows:
"In no case shall the. nationality of the person accused be an impediment to his extradition:, under the conditions stipulated by the
p resent treaty, but neither Government shall be bound to deliver
Its own citizens for extradition under this convention; but either
shall have the power to deliver them up, if, in its discretion it be
deemed proper to do so."
The same phraseology is used in the treaty with the Orange Free
State, 1896, Art. V, 2 Malloy, 1316.

VALENTINE v. U. S.
5

EX REL.

NEIDECKER.

13

Opinion of the Court.

the power to deliver them up, if, in its discretion, it be
deemed proper to do so." '
We must assume that the representatives of the United
States had these clauses before them when they negotiated the treaty with France and that the omission was
deliberate. And the fact that our Government had favored extradition treaties without excepting citizens puts
the omission of the qualifying grant of discretionary
power in a strong light.
Historical background and administrative practice furnish no warrant for reading into the treaty with France a
grant which the parties failed to insert. History and practice not only do not support, but they rather negative,
the claim of an implied discretionary power. The language of Article V of the treaty with France first appears
in our extradiion treaty with Prussia in 1S52, " and it was
repeated in a number of later treaties including the Mexi(an treaty of 1S61. 0 It seems that the question as to the
effect of the provision first arose under the last-mentioned
treaty. Mr. Moore reviews the cases." In 1871 the
IUnited States requested the surrender of fugitives who
had escaped to Mexico. It appeared that they were Mexican citizens. The Mexican Government refused surrender, stating that its action "should be in 6trict conformity
with the stipulations of the treaty of extradition"' and
'1 iIalloy, 1186. The treaties with (;Gitenala, 1903, Art. V, 1
Malloy, 881, and with Nirarogua, 1905, 2 Malloy, 1295, have the

same provision.
The treaty with Uniguay, 1905, Art. X, 2 Malloy, 1828, provides:
"The obligation to grant extradition shall not, in any case extend to
the citizens of the two parties, but the executive authority of each
shall have power to deliver them up, if, in its discretion, it is deemed
proper to do so."
02 Malloy, 1503.
101 Malloy, 1127.

'Moore on Extradition, vol. 1, pp. 164-1i67; Moore, Int. Law.
Dig., vol. IV. pp. :101-:103.

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

with "the practice observed" by the Government of the
United States toward the Mexican Government "insimilar cases." In 1874, one Perez, a Mexican, committed a
murder in Texas and escaped to Mexico. Our Secretary
of State, Mr. Fish, instructed the American Ambassador
that although the surrender could not be demanded as of
right and would not be asked as a favor, or even accepted
with an understanding that it would be reciprocated, the
circumstances might be made known to the Mexican Government with a view to ascertain whether it would voluntarily surrender the fugitive. The Mexican Government
declined the surrender. In another case, arising in 1877,
the question of the power of the Mexican Government to
surrender its citizens to the United States came before its
federal supreme court. While it appeared that the fact
of Mexican citizenship was not conclusively established,
the court was of the view that the individual guarantees
of the Mexican Constitution would not be violated by the
surrender.
The question was elaborately considered in the case of
Trimble in 1884, He was an American citizen whose
extradition was demanded by the Mexican Government.
Our Government refused surrender. Mr. Frelinghuysen,
Secretary of State, took the ground that as the treaty
negatived the obligation to surrender, the President was
not invested with legal authority to act. While it is true
that Secretary Frelinghuysen later concluded that the
question was of such importance that it should receive
judicial determination, the view he entertained as to the
President's lack of power was cogently stated'
Re"Mr. Frelinghuysen's views appear in 'a report to the Senate.
Sen. Ex. Doc. 98, 48th Cong., 1st sess. See Moore on Extradition,
vol. 1, pp. 167, 168. Discussing the constitutional powers of the
President, Mr. Frel).ghuysen concluded:
"Thus it appears that, by the opinions of several Attorneys-General, by the decisions of our courts, and by the rulings of the Depart-

VALENTINE v. U. S.
5

EX REL.

NEIIECKER.

15

Opinion of the Court.

ferring to that view, Mr. Moore adds: "To this position
the governinept of the United States has adhered." 9
Secretary Bayard in the case of Hudson, in 1888, followed
the ruling in the Trimble case. He said: "The treaty
provision referred to, which is found similarly stated in
ment of State, the President has not, independent of treaty provision,
the power of extraditing an American citizen; and the only question
to be considered is whether the treaty with Mexico confers that
power.
"By the treaty with Mexico proclaimed June 20, 1862, this country places itself under obligations to Mexico to surrender to justice
persons accused of enumerated crimes committed within the jurisdiction of Mexico who shall be found within the territory of the
United States; and further provides that that obligation shall not
extend to the surrender of American citizens. The treaty confers
upon the President no affirmative power to surrender an American
citizen. The treaty between the United States and Mexico creates
an obligation on the part of the respective governments, and does no
more, and where the obligation ceases the power falls. It is true
that treaties are the laws of the land, but a statute and a treaty are
subject to different modes of construction. If a statute by the first
section should say, The President of the United States shall surrender
to any friendly power any person who has committed a crime against
the laws of that power, but shall not be bound so to surrender American citizens, it might be argued, perhaps correctly, that the .President had a discretion whether he would or would not surrender an
American citizen. But a treaty is a contract, and must be so construed. It confers upon the President only the power to perform
that contract. I understand the treaty with Mexico as reading thus:
The President shall be bound to surrender any person guilty of crime,
unless such person is a citizen of the United States.
"Such being the construction of the treaty, and believing that the
time to prevent a violation of the law of extradition was before the
citizens left the jurisdiction of the United States, I telegraphed the
Governor of Texas that an American citizen could not legally be
held under the treaty for extradition.
"It would be a great evil that those guilty of high crime, wlether
American citizens or not, should go unpunished; but even that result could not justify an usurpation of power."
" Moore on Extradition, vol. I, p. 167.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

many of our extradition treaties, was held to negative any
obligation to surrender, and thus to leave the authorities
of this government without authority to act in such a case.
After due consideration, the department is of opinion that
the construction given to the treaty in the Trimble Case
is correct." See Ex parte McCabe, 4 Fed. 363, 379. Secretary Blaine, in 1891, in refusing to ask for the surrender
of Mexican citizens, took the same position, saying: "In
view of this," (the Trimble case) "and several prior and
subsequent cases in which a similar construction has been
given to the treaty, the government is precluded from
demanding the extradition of the fugitives in the present
instance." Id.
In this situation, the question of the construction of the
treaty with Mexico came before the District Court of the
United States for the.Western -District of Texas in 1891.
Mrs. McCabe, an American citizen who was held for
extradition proceedings on the charge that she had committed the crime of murder in Mexico, sued out a writ of
habeas corpus. In an elaborate opinion reviewing the
precedents, Judge Maxey ruled that there was no authority to surrender and directed her discharge from custody.
Ex parte McCabe, supra. The case was not appealed.
In the light of this concurrence of administrative and
judicial views a new extradition treaty with Mexico was
negotiated (1899). That treaty, as we have seen, repeated the exception with respect to citizens but, following the precedent of the treaties with Japan, the Argentine Republic and the Orange Free State'4 added the
qualifying words "but the executive authoity of each
shall have the power to deliver them up, if, in its discretion, it be deemed proper to do so." And the same
qualification was inserted in the later treaties above
mentioned."
14

See Note 7.

'See Note 8.

VALENTINE
5

V.

U. S. EX REL.. NEIDECKER.

.17

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioners insist that the precedents fall short of showing a uniform course of practical construction favorable
to the respondents. The argument is unavailing. What
is more to the point is that administrative practice is not
shown to be favorable to the petitioners. Strictly the
question is not whether there had been a uniform practical construction denying the power, but whether the
power had been so clearly recognized that the grant should
be implied. The administrative rulings to which we have
referred make the latter conclusion wholly inadmissible.
The treaty with France of 1843. made no exception of
citizens. France, however, refused to recognize an obligation under that treaty to surrender her citizens. " In inserting the exception in the new treaty, a clause was
chosen under which Secretaries of State and a federal
court had held that the President had no discretionary
power to surrender citizens of this country. Notwithstanding this, that excepting clause was inserted without
qualification, and a familiar clause granting a discretionary power was omitted. No provision was inserted to
confer such a power. It was upon that basis that the
treaty was negotiated and ratified. In these circumstances we know of no rule of construction which would
permit us to supply the omission.
' Against these considerations, the inference sought to
be drawn from the French "expose des motifs" accompanying the treaty, and mnore particularly from the "expose" accompanying the Franco-British treaty of 1908, is
of slight weight."
Petitioners strongly rely upon the decision in England
in In re Galwey [1896], 1 Q. B. D. 230; compare Reg. v.
Wilson, 3 Q. B. D. 42 (1877). • But, as the Circuit Court
Moore, Int. Law Dig., vol. IV, p. 298.
Documents Parlementaires (1909), Chambre des Deputds, Annexe 2391; Id., S6nat, Annexe 2338.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

of Appeals points out, the Anglo-Belgian treaty there
under consideration had its own history and background-quite different from that which we have hereupon which the case turned. It does not present a persuasive analogy.
Applying, as we must, our own law in determining the
authority of the President, we are constrained to hold
that his power, in the absence of statute conferring an
independent power, must be found in the terms of the
treaty and that, as the treaty with France fails to grant
the necessary authority, the President is without power to
surrender the respondents.
However regrettable such a lack of authority may be,
the remedy lies with the Congress, or with the treatymaking power wherever the parties are willing to provide
for the surrender of citizens, and not with the courts.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

TENNESSEE PUBLISHING CO. v. AMERICAN

NATIONAL BANK

ET AL.

CERTIORARI- TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 48.

Argued October 22, 23, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

1. Constitutional questions should not be decided, by anticipation,
upon records not necessarily presenting them. P. 22.
2. Under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, if the plan of reorganization is neither fair nor feasible, the District Judge, upon so finding,
can proceed no further with the plan and is authorized to dismiss
the petition. Id.
81 F. (2d) 463, affirmed.

