BRITISH-AMERICAN CO. v. BOARD.

159

Syllabus.

156

That question as raised by the present record should have
been determined by the Circuit Court of Appeals upon
a consideration of the evidence adduced, untrammeled by
any supposed expression upon that point by this Court.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

BRITISH-AMERICAN
BOARD

OF

OIL PRODUCING

EQUALIZATION

OF

CO. v.
MONTANA

ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MONTANA.

No. 37.

Argued November 11, 1936.-Decided December 7, 1936.

1. The Blackfeet Indian Reservation, as existing in recent years, was
created by legislation and not by Executive Order. P. 162.
The Reservation rests upon agreements or conventions which
were ratified and given effect by Acts of Congress, c. 213, 25 Stat.
113; c. 398, 29 Stat. 321, 353, superseding earlier, temporary
Executive Orders.
2. The proviso to ยง 3 of the Act of February 28, 1891, authorizing
the leasing for mining purposes of lands occupied by Indians "who
have bought and paid for the same," is not confined to lands
acquired by Indians through the payment of a consideration in
money, but includes lands reserved for Indians in return for a
cession or surrender by them of other lands, possessions, or rights.
Pp. 163, 164.
3. The issue of "trust patents" to Blackfeet Indian allottees, containing, as the Act of June 30, 1919, requires, a reservation for the
benefit of the tribe of all minerals, including oil and gas, in or
under the allotted land, operates to carve out of such land and
create a distinct estate consisting of the minerals. This estate is
in itself land, and, being reserved for the benefit of the tribe, it is
tribal land, and is unallotted lands within the meaning of the Acts

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

of February 28, 1891, supra, and May 29, 1924, which authorize
leasing for mining purposes. P. 164.
4. With respect to the leasing of unallotted Indian lands for minerals, including oil and gas, the special provisions of the Acts of
June 30, 1919, and September 20, 1922, which relate to the Blackfeet Reservation, are to be read with the general provisions of the
Acts of February 28, 1891, and May 29, 1924, supra. P. 165.
5. Therefore, where a lease was given under the special provisions of
the Act of June 30, 1919, supra, taken in connection with the general provisions of the Acts of February 28, 1891, and May 29, 1924,
supra, the production of oil and gas was subject to statr f.rxntinn
by virtue of the assent of Congress in the Act last mentioned.
P. 166.
101 Mont. 293; 54 P. (2d) 129, affiimed.
CERTIORARI, 298 U. S. 652, to review a judgment sustaining taxes on the production of oil and gas, under a
lease of lands of the Blackfeet Indians.

Mr. H. C. Hall, with Whom Messrs. E. K. Cheadle, Jr.,
and E. J. McCabe were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Oscar A. Provost argued the cause, and Mr. Raymond T. Nagle, Attorney General of Montana, filed a
brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
A judgment of the Supreme Court of Montana sustaining state taxes on the production of oil and gas uider a
lease covering such minerals in certain lands of the Blackfeet Indians (101 Mont. 293; 54 P. (2d) 129) is here
under review.
These Indians are wards of the United States and have
been occupying a reservation in Montana. During recent
years they have received allotments in severalty from
lands in the reservation, and they now hold the allotments
under so-called trust patents, whereby the United States
declares that it will retain the title for a period of twenty-

BRITISH-AMERICAN CO. v. BOARD.
159

Opinion of the Court.

five years in trust for the use and benefit of the several
allottees, and at the expiration of that period will convey
the same by patent to them or their heirs. Under the
terms of the controlling statute, as also under the terms
of the patents, all minerals, including coal, oil and gas,
in or under the allotted lands are reserved to the United
States for the benefit of the tribe "until Congress shall
otherwise direct."
The petitioner holds a'mining lease covering "all the
oil and gas deposits in or under" certain of these allotted
lands, a stated share of the gross production being reserved to the United States for the benefit of the Indian
tribe as the lessor's royalty. The lease was authorized by
a resolution of the tribal, council, was recommended by
the United States agent in charge of the reservation, was
given for a term of five years from the date of its approval, was approved by the Secretary of the Interior
October 5, 1934, and recites that it was given in accord:
ance with ยง 3 of the Act of February 28, 1891, c. 383,
26 Stat. 795, as amended by Act of May 29, 1924, c. 2-0%
43 Stat. 244.
The taxes in question are a gross production tax and a
net proceeds tax, and it is conceded that the State is without power to apply- either to the production under this
lease, save and except as Congress may have given its
assent. Whether Congress has given its assent is the
ultimate question, and this turns on the subordinate
questions (a) which of several statutes controls the leasing of tribal lands in this reservation for mining oil and
gas, and (b) whether the reserved oil and gas deposits
underlying allotted lands in this reservation constitute
unallotted lands in the sense of these statutes.
There have been two related but distinct lines of legislation respecting the leasing- of tribal Indian lands for
mining purposes. The older and more general line has
been regarded uniformly as -including lands in reserva-

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

tions created by legislation, such as a treaty or congressional enactment; and has also been regarded at times as
including, and at other times as excluding, lands in a
reservation created by executive order. The proviso to
ยง 3 of the Act of February 28, 1891, and the Act of
May 29, 1924, both before mentioned, belong to the first
line. The later and narrower line, which doubtless was
prompted ,by diverse administrative interpretations of the
other, is in terms confined to lands in reservations created
by executive order. The Act of March 3, 1927, c. 299, 44
Stat. 1347, belongs to this line.
We are of opinion, as was the state court, that the
Blackfeet reservation, as existing in recent years, was
created by legislation and not by executive order.
The original territory of the Blackfeet and other Indians associated with them included a large area, as is
shown by a-treaty of September 17, 1851, 2 Kappler
Indian Affairs, 2d ed., 594, and a treaty of October 17,
1855, 11 Stat. 657. Under executive orders of 1873 and
1874, an Act of Congress of April 15, 1874, c. 96, 18 Stat.
28, and executive orders of 1875 and 1880, the Blackfeet
and certain of the other Indians associated with them
came to occupy a large part of this original territory as a
reservation specially set apart for them.
By an agreement or convention, ratified by Congress
May 1., 1888, c. 213, 25 9tat. 113, which recited various
considerations moving from the Blackfeet to the United
States and the reverse, and from the Blackfeet to their
associates and the reverse, much of the earlier reservation
was ceded to the United States, and three separate reservations, all within the limits of te earlier reservation,
were created, one of these being set apart for the Blackfeet and the other two for the other Indians. By another agreement or convention, ratified by Congress June
,10, 1896, c. 398, 29 Stat. 321, 353, which disclosed various
considerations moving from the Indians to the Government and the reverse, part of the separate Blackfeet

BRITISH-AMERICAN CO. v. BOARD.
159

Opinion of the Court.

reservation was ceded to the United States, and the remaindet was set apart as the tribe's future reservation.
This last reservation is the one with which we now are
concerned. It rests entirely on the agreements or conventions which were ratified and given effect by Congress.
The executive orders before mentioned, evidently designed to be temporary, have been superseded by congressional action and no longer are of any force.
We turn, therefore, to the legislation bearing on the
leasing for mining purposes of tribal lands in such a reservation. We say "triballlands" because (1) here the
mineral deposits did not pass to the allottees but were
reserved for the benefit of the tribe, and (2) other and
distinct legislation controls the leasing for mining purposes of lands of individual allottees where there is no
reservation of the mineral deposits.
The proviso to ยง 3 of the Act of February 28, 1891,
reads:
"Where lands are occupied by Indians who have bought
and paid for the same, and which lands are not needed
for farming or agricultural purposes, and are not desired
for individual allotments, the same may be leased by
authority of the Council speaking for such Indians, for
a period not to exceed . . . ten years for mining purposes in such quantities and upon such terms and conditions as the agent in charge of such reservation may
recommend, subject to the approval of the Secretary of
the Interior."
The Act of May 29, 1924, provides that "unallotted
land on'Indian reservations," other than lands of the Five
Civilized Tribes and of the Osage Reservation, which are
subject to lease for mining purposes .under thd above
quoted proviso,
"may be leased at public auction by the Secretary of the
Interior, with the consent of the Council speaking for
such Indians, for oil and gas mining purposes .for a
period of not to exceed ten years, and as much longer

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

thereafter as oil or gas shall be found in paying quantities . . .: Provided, That the production cf oil and
gas and other minerals on such lands may be taxed
by the State in which said lands are located in all respects
the same as production on unrestricted lands, and the
Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed
to cause to be paid the tax so assesswd against the royalty
interests on said lands; Provided, however, that such tax
shall not become a lien or charge of any kind or character against the land or the property of the Indian
owner."
The present lease recites that it was given under these
general provisions, and the state court regarded them
as both applicable and controlling.
The petitioner does not question that the reservation,
as existing and occupied by the tribe in recent years,
comes within the terms of the proviso in the Act of 1891
as lands which the Indians "have bought and paid for."
Doubtless this is because the petitioner recognizes that
by uniform administrative practice and by judicial decision this part of the proviso has been construed as not
confined to lands acquired by Indians through the payment of a consideration in money, but equally including
lands reserved for Indians in return for a cession or, surrender by them of other lands, possessions or rights.'
Further comment in this regard is not necessary.
Obviously the mineral deposits which are the subject
of the lease are not needed for farming or agricultural purposes and are not desired for individual allotments.
The issue of the trust patents containing, as the statute
requires, a reservation for the benefit of the tribe of all
minerals, including oil and gas, in or under the allotted
land, operates to carve out of such land and create a distinct estate consisting of the minerals. This estate is in
'25 Land Dec. 408; Strawberry Valley Cattle Co. v. Chipman, 13
Vtah 454, 462, et seq.; 45 Pac. 348.

BRITISH-AMERICAN CO. v. BOARD.
159

Opinion of the Court.

itself land, and, being reserved for the benefit of the tribe,
it is tribal land, and is unallotted.
What has been said, unless deflected by matters which
remain to be noticed, shows, we think, that the reserved
mineral estate which is the subject of the lease comes in
all particulars within the terms of, the general provisions
before quoted, and that the lease should be regarded as
authorized by that legislation and given under it.
But it is urged that there are other provisions specifically dealing with the leasing of the Blackfeet lands for
mining purposes and that these provisions 'fully cover
that field and therefore render the general legislation
inapplicable. There are provisions expressly relating to
such leasing of these lands, and therefore it becomes
necessary to consider their scope and effect.
The Act of June 30, 1919, c. 4, 41 Stat. 3, 16, 17, contains the following:
the Secretary of the Interior is authorized
to make. allotments under existing laws within the said
Reservation to any Indians of said Blackfeet Tribe not
heretofore allotted
"Providedfurther, That any and all minerals, including
coal, oil, and gas, are hereby reserved for the benefit of
the Blackfeet Tribe of Indians until Congress shall otherwise direct, and patents hereafter issued shall contain a
reservation accordingly: Provided, That the lands containing said minerals may be leased under such rules and
regulations and upon such terms and conditions as the
Secretary of the Interior-may prescribe."
The Act of September 20, 1922, c. 347, 42 Stat. 857;
also provides:
"That lands reserved, for school and agency purposes
and all other unallotted lands on the Fort. Peck and
Blackfeet Reservations, in the State of Montana, reserved
from allotment or other disposition, may be 'leased for
mining purposes' under regulations prescxibed by the
Secretary of the Interior."

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

It is to be observed that the administration of these
special provisions and of the general provisions is committed to the supervision of the same officer-the Secretary of the Interior-and that in the exercise of this
supervision he approved the present lease containing a
recital that it was given in accordance with the general
provisions. Not only so, but the agent in charge of the
reservation recommended the lease, and the lessee accepted it, with that recital of its statutory foundation.
In other words, all proceeded with the view that the
general provisions are applicable, and not excluded by the
special provisions:
We are of opinion that this view is right. The special
provisions relate to the same subject that is dealt with
in the general provisions and are to be read in the light
of the latter. All were in force when the lease was given
and all should be treated as one law so far as this reasonably can be done,2 The general provisions are more comprehensive than the special. The latter are meager and
wanting in detail. The general provisions supply what
is thus wanting. And, so far as is here material, there
is no conflict, nor anything to prevent all from being
carried into effect as if they were one law.
We conclude that the lease was given under the special
provision in the Act of June 30, 1919, taken in connection
with the general provisions. The Act of May 29, 1924,
is one of the general provisions, and in it Congress assents
to taxation by the State of the production of oil and gas
through a lease given under its provisions.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
United States v. Freeman, 3 How. 556, 564; Converse v. United
States, 21 How. 463, 467. And see United States v. Jefferson Electric
Co., 291 U. S. 386, 396, and cases cited.

