476

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

being so, .petitioners have not maintained the burden of
overcoming the decree. Their claim of title fails.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

SHOSHONE TRIBE OF INDIANS v. UNITED
STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 216.

Argued December 17, 18, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.

1. A taking of an interest in land, tortious in its origin, may be made
lawful by relation. P. 496.
2. A taking of land may be partial, not involving complete eviction.
P. 497.
3. The right to interest, or a fair equivalent, attaches automatically
to an award for damages for an expropriation of property, though
not specified in the Act of Congress permitting the suit. Id..
4. The guardianship of the United States over the property and
affairs of tribal Indians does not enable the Government to require
a tribe to which an exclusive right of occupancy has been pledged
by treaty, to share it with another tribe without just compensation. P. 497.
5. By treaty of July 3, 1868, a reservation was set apart for the
Shoshone Indians exclusively. On March 18, 1878, a band of
Arapahoes, under military escort, settled upon the land; others
did so later. These intrusions were directed or sanctioned by the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs, with intent that the settlements
should be permanent; and from .then on, in the administrative
way, he treated the two tribes as equal beneficiaries of the reservation-a view which at length found sanction in Acts of Congress
dealing with cessions of land and with the privilege of allotment
in severalty. The Shoshones, however, protested consistently
*Together with No. 328, United States v. Shoshone Tribe of Indians. Certiorari to the Court of Claims.

SHOSHONE TRIBE v. U. S.
476

477

Argument for the Shoshones.

against the invasion of their rights, and finally secured from Congress the jurisdictional Act of March 3, 1927, under which they
presented to the court below their claim for compensation for the
taking of an undivided one-half interest in their tribal lands. Held:
(1) That the jurisdictional Act is not an exercise of eminent
domain, although it provides that a recovery under it shall be in
full settlement and shall annul the claim of the Shoshones. Consequently the date of that Act is not the time as of which the
property taken should be valued in assessing compensation. P. 492.
(2) Neither are the damages to be measured as of a date (Aug.
13, 1891) when the Commissioner of Indian Affairs expressed in
an official letter his opinion that the rights of the two tribes to
the reservation were equal. P. 494.
(3) By the action and inaction of the executive and legislative
branches of the Government, the de facto appropriation, originally
tortious, was ratified, and the ratification relates back to the d~te
of the original unlawful entry, March 18, 1878. P. 495.
(4) Damages should be measured as of that date. Id.
(5) The claimant's damages include such additional amount
beyond the value of its property rights when taken by the Government as may be necessary to the award of just compensation, the
increment to be measured either by interest on the value or by
such other standard as may be suitable in the light of all the
circumstances. P. 496.
82 Ct. Cls. 23, reversed.

to review a judgment
CRoss-wRTs of certiorari
awarding compensation for the taking of a one-half
undivided interest in the reservation of the Shoshone
Tribe of Indians.
Messrs. George M. Tunison and Albert W. Jefferis,
with whom Messrs. Charles J. Kappler and Francis S.
Howell were on the brief, for the Shoshone Tribe of
Indians.
The Commissioner of Indian Affairs was without authority to divest the Shoshones of rights in the reservation
held under their treaty of 1868.
*

Leecy v. United States,

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume,

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for the Shoshones.

299 U. S.

190 Fed. 289; United States v. Creek Nation, 295 U. S.
103; Borax Consolidated v. Los Angeles, 296 U. S. 10;
United States v. Carpenter, 111 U. S. 347; Lane v. Santa
Rosa, 249 U. S. 110, 113; Santa Rosa v. Fall, 273 U. S.
315, 320, 321; 18 Ops. Atty. Gen. 235-237.
Congress in 1897 and in 1905, by enacting the appropriate reservations in each of the agreements of cession,
preserved for the Shoshones all benefits to which they
were entitled under their 1868 treaty stipulations.
As there was no permanent taking until 1927, compensation should be allowed for temporary use and occupancy
from 1878 to 1927. Johnson v. United States, 2 Ct. Cls.
391; Johnson v. United States, 4 Ct. Cls. 248; Pope v.
United States, 26 Ct. Cls. 11.
The award for temporary use and occupation is inadequate. Present full equivalent should be allowed. In
addition to proper compensation for temporary use and
occupancy from 1878 to 1927, there should be dnough
more to produce the present equivalent of compensation
paid contemporaneously. Phelps v. United States, 274
U. S. 341; Waite v. United States, 282 U. S. 508; Jacobs
v. United States, 290 U. S. 13.
Taking the use of an undivided one-half of the reservation by executive officers and appropriating it to the
benefit of the United States and the Arapahoes, was a
taking for public use; and, under the ratification of the
Jurisdictional Act of 1927, the case stands as though the
United States, from year to year, had taken the use of
the property of the Shoshones. Tiaco v. Forbes, 228 U. S.
549; United States v. The Nuestra Senora De Regla,
108 U. S. 92; Dona MariaFranciscaO'Reilly de Camara
v. Brooke, 209 U. S. 45.
The Jurisdictional Act contemplates, (1) recovery of
damages for the temporary use from 1878 to 1927; (2)
permanent provision for the Arapahoes. Therefore the
Act provides that: "The decree . .. shall . . . cancel
all claim," etc.

SHOSHONE TRIBE v. U. S.
476

Argument for the Shoshones.

The just compensation includes such addition to the
value of the property at the time of the permanent taking as may be required to produce the present full equivalent of that value paid contemporaneously. United
States v. Creek Nation, 295 U. S.103.
Indians are citizens of the United States. Act of June
2, 1924, 43 Stat. 253; General Allotment Act of February
8, 1887, ยง 6, 24 Stat. 388.
Indians and Indian tribes come within the protection
of the Constitution. United States v. Creek Nation,
supra. See also Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas R.
Co., 135 U. S.641; United States v. Mille Lac Band of
Chippewa Indians, 229 U. S.498.
The United States is more strictly obligated to act
justly towards Indians than- in similar cases towards
whites. Choctaw Nation v. United States, 119 U. S. 1.
Indian tribes are not to be discriminated against merely
because the naked title of the land taken resides in the
United States. Retention of legal title was solely that
it might not pass into foreign hands. Leavenworth, L. &
G. R. Co. v. United States, 92 U. S.733; Yankton Sioux
Tribe of Indians v. United States, 61 Ct. Cls. 40; Yankton
Sioux Tribe of Indians v. United States, 272 U. S.351;
s. c., 65 Ct. Cls. 428.
There was no taking in 1878.
The theory of the Government in the court below Was
that the Shoshones had consented, without consideration,
to give away a half interest in their beautiful home to
their ancient enemies, the Arapahoes. Now, abandoning
that contention, the Government claims that the half
interest was forcibly taken from the Shoshones in 1878.
The difficulty with this contention is that the Shoshones
knew nothing of any such claim. They were highly honorable people. They respected their pledged word and
they believed the Government would respect its pledged

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for the Shoshones.

299 U. S.

word. So we have the unusual situation of the Government now claiming that the half interest in the Shoshones' treaty reservation was taken from them in 1878
by the mere "thought" of the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs, which "thought" was not at that time, nor there-after until 1891, even communicated or made known to
the Shoshones.
Indian treaty lands may not be taken by mistakes of
officials of the Interior Department. United States v.
Creek Nation, 295 U. S. 1:03.
Legislation affecting the Indians is to be construed in
their interest; and a purpose to make radical departure
is not lightly inferred. United States v. Nice, 241 U. S.
591; Leavenworth, L. & G. R, Co. v. United States,
92 U. S. 733.
At any time up to the, filing of this suit, the Government could have maintained an action as guardian of the
Shoshones to eject the Arapahoes. One of the very purposes of the Jurisdictional Act was to put an end to the
uncertainty of the tenure of the Arapahoes.
The findings preclude the claim tlat the Shoshones'
title was taken in 1878 by what the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs may secretly have "thought," or that Congress surreptitiously, by language hidden away in Indian
appropriation acts, intended to take it.
Congress has often recognized that Indian tribes are the
beneficial owners of their treaty reservations, including,
all natural resources. See, for example, the Acts of
February 6, 1871, 16 Stat;-404; April 25, 1876, 19 Stat. 37;
June 15, 1880, 21 Stat. 199; March 31, 1882, 22 Sta, 36;
and April 11, 1882, 22_Sat 42.
Since the Acts of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 682-590, and
March,2, 1887, 24 Stat. 44--463, the general and constant
policy of Congress has been to recognize that the Indians
have complete equitable property, rnot only in the surface

SHOSHONE TRIBE v. U. S.
476

Argument for the United States.

but in all resources of every nature, and in every element
of value in their treaty reservations, below and above the
surface. Such recognition is by both general and special
legislation.
Vide general laws pertaining to sale or lease of natural
resources on Indian reservations; and special legislation
pertaining to Shoshones of the Wind River Reservation:
Act of March 3, 1905, 33 Stat. 1016; Act of February 25,
1909, 35 Stat. 650; Act of August 21, 1916, 39 Stat. 516;
Act of May 21, 1928, 45 Stat. 617.
The legislative history of Congress respecting the Indians indicates that the United States has never sought
to profit from any resources on Indian reservations, and
that the holding of the mere naked title was solely for
the protection of the interests of the Indians during their
pupilage. See 29 Ops. Atty. Gen., pp, 239-242; 34 Ops.
Atty. Gen., pp. 181, 189; 19 Ops. Atty. Gen., p. 194, overruled by 29 Ops. Atty. Gen., pp. 239-242, and 34 Ops.
Atty. Gen., pp. 181, 189.
This Court has held in Mitchel v. United States, 9 Pet..
711, 756; s. c. 15 Pet. 84, that the right of the Indians in
their lands is not that of mere occupancy and perpetual
possession, but a right of property, held under the guar-,
anty of treaties.
The Court of Claims, in arriving at the value of the
one-half interest in the Shoshones' reservation, committed no error in considering the beneficial ownership
of the resources as a part of the value of the land itself.
Distinguishing: United States v. Cook, 19 Wall. 591;
Pine River Logging & Imp. Co. v. United States, 186
U. S.280.
Assistant Attorney QGeneral Blair, with whom Solicitor
General Reed and Me~srs. George T. Stormont, Charles
H. Small, and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for
the United.States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.:
Argument for the United States.

299 U. S.

The liability of the United States to the Shoshones is
limited to one-half of the value of their right in the
reservation as of 1878,. without interest.
The letter of August 13, 1891, from the Commissioner
of Indian Affairs to the Woodruff Commission did not
constitute a "taking." The absence of any intention to
"take" is in itself sufficient to refute the holding that the
writing of the letter effected, a "taking." Horstmann Co.
v. United States, 257 U. S. 138. The letter was nothing
but a statement by the Commissioner of his opinion of
the rights of the parties; and that opinion was based
upon facts which had occurred 13 years before.
The "taking" was complete in 1878, when the Commissioner, with full knowledge of the fact that the Shoshones had consented to temporary occupancy only, kept
the Arapahoes on the reservation over the protests of
the Shoshones.
That Congress understood these facts as constituting
the expropriation for which the Jurisdictional Act was
designed to afford the Shoshones relief, is shown by the
history of that Act.
Both parties to this suit are agreed that there was no
authority in the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to deprive the Shoshones of any property rights either in 1878
or 1891. The only way in which the Shoshones could lawfully have been deprived of the use and occupation was
through the exercise of the power of eminent domain,
United States v. Creek Nation, 295 U. S. 103, 110; but
the Government will not be deemed to have exercised
that power merely because some unauthorized officer takes
possession. United States v. North American Transportation Co., 253 U. S. 330, 333.
The only color for a "taking" in any sense by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs was ยง 463 of the Revised
Statutes (25 U. S. C. 2), upon which the Court of Claims
apparently based its conclusion. Cf. United States v.
Creek Nation, 295 U. S. 103.

SHOSHONE TRIBE v. U. S.
476

Argument for the United States.

Since the action of the Commissioner was without
authority, Congress could have repudiated it altogether,
and it would have created no liability on the part of the
Government except as a breach of the treaty. J. Ribas y
Hijo v. United States, 194 U. S. 315, 323; United States
v. North American TransportationCo., 253 U. S. 330, 334.
It is submitted that instead of repudiating the action
of the Commissioner, Congress by the Jurisdictional Act
provided in effect that the "taking" or appropriation in
1878 should operate as an offer to purchase as of the date
of the appropriation, and left the Shoshones free to accept
or reject that offer.
By bringing this suit, the Shoshones accepted 0 at
offer, and thereby a simple contractual obligation of the
Government arose. The Government is not liable for
interest on its contractual obligations unless the contract
expressly provides therefor or some statitte authorizes it.
Distinguishing: Seaboard Air Line v. United States, 261
U. S. 299; Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. v. United States,
274 U. S. 215; Jacobs v. United States, 290 U. S. 13;
Phelps v. United States, 274 U. S. 341.
The original appropriation created no liability, constitutional or contractual, on the part of the Government,;
and Congress was free to repudiate it or adopt it on such
terms and with such conditions as it saw fit to impose.
It could have adopted the original appropriation as a
forcible taking in the exercise of the power of eminent
domain, Crozier v. Krupp, 224 U. S. 290, but it refrained.
Instead, it chose to treat the appropriation as an offer to
contract, and therefore the United States is liable only
under that contract. United States v. North American
TransportationCo., 253 U. S. 330, 335.
The Act of 1883, standing by itself, gave the Shoshones
no greater right in the timber, minerals, and other products of the reservation than they had under the treaty
of 1868. Congress did not understand the Act of 1883.

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.'
Opinion of the Court.

299 U.S.

as conferring upon an Indian Tribe any title to timber,
minerals, or other products of the reservation. See Act
of February 16, 1889, c. 172, 25 Stat. 673. 34 Ops. Atty.
Gen., p. 171, distinguished. The contention of the Shoshones in that regard is contrary to United States v. Cook,
19 Wall. 591, and Pine River Logging Co.. v. United States,
186 U. S.279, see Northern Pacific R. Co. v. Lewis, 162
U. S.366; United States v. Denver & Rio Grande R. Co.,
191 U. S.84; and United States v. Paine Lumber Co.,
206 U. S.467.
By leave of Court, Mr. G. Carroll Todd filed a brief on
behalf of the Klamath and Moadoc Tribes of Indians and
the Yahooskin Band of Snake Indians, as amici curiae,
on the question of the rights of an Indian Tribe in
standing timber, minerals, etc., on lands within their
reservation.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Shoshone Tribe of Indians of the Wind River Reservation in Wyoming has sued the United States in the
Court of Claims for the breach of treaty stipulations,
whereby the tribe has been permanently excluded from
the possession and enjoyment of an undivided half interest in the tribal lands. Jurisdiction to hear the claim
was conferred upon the Court of Claims by an act of
March 3, 1927 (44 Stat. 1349, Part II), which, so far as
its provisions are now material, is quoted in the margin.'
'Section 1 provides that jurisdiction is "conferred upon the Court
of Claims, with right of appeal to the Supreme Court of the United
States by either party, notwithstanding the lapse of time or statutes
of limitation, to hear, examine, adjudicate, and render judgment in
any and all legal and equitable claims which the Shoshone Tribe of
Indians of the Wind River Reservation in the State of Wyoming
may have against the United States arising under or growing out
of the treaty of July 3, 186 (Fifteenth Statutes, page 673), or

SHOSHONE TRIBE v. U. S.
476

Opinion of the Court.

The court gave judgment for the claimant. Neither
party to the controversy was satisfied with the award of
damages, the claimant finding it too low, and the Government too high. There were cross-petitions for certiorari. To fix with certainty and justice the rights and
duties of the Government in its relations with an Indian
tribe, the writs were allowed, and the case is here accordingly.
By treaty of July 3, 1868 (15 Stat. 673), the Shoshone
Tribe of Indians relinquished to the United States a
reservation of 44,672,000 acres in Colorado, Utah, Idaho
and Wyoming, and accepted in exchange a reservation
of 3,054,182 acres in Wyoming, with other benefits not
now important. The United States agreed that the territory described in the treaty now generally known as the
Wind River Reservation, would be "set apart for the
absolute and undisturbed use and occupation of the Shoshone Indians . . . and for such other friendly tribes
arising under or growing out of any subsequent treaty or agreement
between said Shoshone Tribe of Indians and the United States or
any subsequent Act of Congress affecting said tribe, which claims
have not heretofore been determined and adjudicated upon their,

merits by the Court of Claims or the Supreme Court of the United'
States."
Section 3 provides: "In said suit the court shall also hear, examine, and adjudicate any claims which the United States may have
against said tribe, but any payment, including gratuities which the
United States may have made to said tribe, shall not operate as an
estoppel, but may be pleaded as an offset in such suit: Provided,
however, That the United States may interpose to such suit or
action any and all pleas of defense, affirmative and negative, legal
and equitable, which it may have thereto not herein specifically
barred by the provisions of this Act. In reference to all claims
which may be the subject matter of the suits herein authorized,
the decree of the court shall be in full settlement of all damages, if
any, committed by the Government of the United States and shall
annul and cancel all claim, right, and title of the said Shoshone
Indians in and to such money, lands, or other property."

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.'
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

or individual Indians as from time to time they may be
willing, with the consent of the United States, to admit
amongst them." Reinforcing this covenant, there was a
solemn pledge of faith by the United States that no persons, except a few specially enumerated, and governmental agents engaged in the discharge of duties enjoined
by law, should "ever be permitted to pass over, settle
upon, or reside" in the territory so reserved. The loyalty
of the Shoshone tribe to the people of the United States
has been conspicuous and unfaltering. A fidelity at least
as constant and inflexible was owing in return.
In 1869, a band of the Northern Arapahoes, separating
from the main body of the nation, was wandering about
the country, looking for a home. The Arapahoes had
been allies of the Sioux, who were the foes of the Shoshones. None the less, the wanderers expressed a wish
to have a refuge and a settlement on the Wind River
Reservation. They came upon the Reservation in 1870,
and were informed by Washakie, Chief of the Shoshones,
that they would be permitted to stay there for a short
time while the Government was seeking to place them
elsewhere. After a few months they moved away. The
Government had no success, however, in providing them
with a satisfactory home, and they continued to cast longing eyes toward the fair and fertile acres set apart for
their ancestral foes. At the instance of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, acting in coperation with the
Secretary of the Interior, a new attempt was made in
October, 1877, to bring the tribes together and relieve the
growing tension developing between them. One Irwin,
formerly the Indian agent on the Wind River Reservation, discussed the problem with Washakie. He said that
the President had no intention of placing the Arapahoes
on the Shoshone Reservation, but that the 'desire was
merely to insure peace between the tribes and to find a
place for the Arapahoes nearby, on a separate tract of

SHOSHONE. TRIBE v. U. S.
476

487

Opinion of' the Court.

land close to the eastern boundary. Washakie .agreed
that there should be peace, but insisted that the traditional enemies of his tribe be placed at a safe distance,
predicting that close contact would bring friction and
fresh hostility.
Irwin telegraphed the Commissioner of Indian Affairs
at Washington on October 17, 1877: "I returned from
Shosione Agency today, Held a council and made peace
between Shoshones and Airapahoes." A written report,
dated February 21, 1878, gave the details of the council;
Even so, the telegram, it seems, had been misunderstood
by the Commissioner, for in his annual report for 1877
(dated November 1, 1877), he said (p. 19): "In a formal
council held last month by Agent Irwin with the Shoshones, their consent to the arrangement desired by the
Arapahoes was obtained, and the removal of the latter is
now in progress." Ignoring many warnings in Febriuary
and later that consent had been refused, the Cominssioner adhered to his erroneous assumption. The consequences of his error are visible in the events that followed.
On March 18, 1878, a band of Northern Arapahoes was
brought to the Reservation of the Shoshones under military escort. The Reservation had been reduced to
2,343,000 acres by the cession of 700,642 acres in 1874 fo'
a money consideration. The Shoshones believed that for
hunting and for husbandry it was not in excess of present
needs. The unheralded arrival of the Arapahoes was the
cause of much excitement. There was a council the next
day, at which the leader of the Arapahoes explained to
Washakie that they and their horses were weary and without food, and in need of rest and care. Thereupon Washakie agreed that they might remain for a short time to
rest their horses and themselves. But the Indian Commissioner, it seems, had, not brought them to the reservation for any temporary visit. On April 2, 1878, he telegraphed the agent at the Reservation to furnish the

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Arapahoes with the necessary food and supplies, and
directed him to "report fully by mail what other measures
are necessary to locate the Band of Northern Arapahoe
Indians under Black Coal," their leader. The agent responded that the Shoshones looked upon the presence of
the Arapahoes as "an encroachment on their rights." At
the request of both tribes, he urged the calling of a council
to be attended by the Department Commander, General
Crook, in order that the location of the Arapahoes might
be permanently settled. No reply to this request came
from the Commissioner or from any one else.
' The famished Arapahoes and their horses had been fed
and cared for, but they did not move away. Instead of
moving away, they came in increasing numbers. As
early as April 8, 1878, nearly the whole tribe was on the
scene. Washakie protested to the agent. The agent at
frequent intervals communicated the protests to the Commissioner. There was nothing in return but silence.
Months lengthened into years, and the signs accumulated
steadily that the Arapahoes were there to stay. Schools
were established for their benefit to the end that their
youth might be adequately trained. Report of Commissibner of Indian Affairs, 1879, p. 169. Ditches were dug
for the irrigation of their ranches. Report of Commissioner of Indian Affairs, 1889, p. 308. In numberless
other ways, their equality of right and privilege became
a postulate of daily life. At length in August, 1891, the
flame of controversy blazed forth anew. The "Woodruff
Commission" had been sent to the Reservation to treat
with the Indians for a cession of a portion of their lands.
The Shoshones took the ground that the Arapahoes
should not be suffered to take part in the council and
vote upon the projects. The Commission telegraphed the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs asking for instructions.
Inreply, August 13, 1891, the Commissioner notified the
Commission: "This office holds

.

.

. that the Arap-

SHOSHONE TRIBE v. U. S.
476

Opinion of the Court.

ahoes have equal rights to the land on the said reservation which does not depend upon the further consent of
the Shoshones, and you should conduct your negotiations
with them upon that basis and with that understanding."
Accordingly, both tribes participated in the council,
though a cession was not effected.
The Commissioner continued to act on the assumption
that the occupancy of the Arapahoes, initiated, as we
have seen, under military escort, was permanent and
rightful. What is more to the point, Congress did the
same. Thus, in 1897, the Government by its agent concluded an agreement with the Shoshones and Arapahoes whereby the Indians ceded to the Government part
of the Shoshones Reservation (55,040 acres) for $60,000,
to be expended without discrimination among the members of the tribes. In preliminary conferences the Shoshones protested that they alone should receive the
stipulated payments. Their protest was overruled,
Ihough they succeeded in adding a proviso that nothing
inthe agreement was to be construed to deprive them of
their annuities or benefits under any existing agreements
or treaty stipulations. This agreement with its'clear
recognition of the occupancy of the Arapahoes and their
equal interest in the land, was ratified by act of Congress.
Act of June 7, 1897, c. 3, 30 Stat. 62, 93, 94. Again, on
April 21, 1904, the Government made an agreement with
the two tribes for the cession of a large tract (1,480,000
acres), leaving only 808,500 acres in the diminished reservation. Again the Shoshones protested that the Arapahoes were intruders, and refused to sign without a
proviso similar to the one in the agreement of 1897.2
Article X. It is further understood that nothing in this agree-

ment shall be construed to deprive the said Indians of the Shoshone or Wind River Reservation, Wyoming, of any benefits to
which they are entitled under existing treaties or agreements, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement."

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Again the Government dealt with the two tribes as lawful occupants and equals. This agreement like the
earlier one was ratified by act of Congress. Act of March
3, 1905, c. 1452, 33 Stat. 1016. It provides inter alia
that "any individual Indian, a member of the Shoshone
or Arapahoe tribes, who has, under existing laws or treaty
stipulations, selected a tract of land within the portion
of said reservation hereby ceded, shall be entitled to have
the same allotted and confirmed to him or her, and any
Indian who has. made or received an allotment of land
within the ceded territory shall have the right to surrender such allotment and select other lands within the
diminished reserve in lieu thereof at any time-before the
lands hereby ceded shall be opened for entry." There is
a finding that 245,058 acres were allotted to Shoshone
and Arapahoe Indians between 1907 and 1919 under the
power thus conferred. Many other provisions of the
agreement and the statute are almost equally explicit and
significant in their recognition of the status quo. Nowhere is there a suggestion that the occupancy of the
newcomers -is impermanent or provisional.
The Arapahoes held their ground, pushing the Shoshones farther to the west, and retaining for themselves
the eastern section of the Reservation, found by the Court
of Claims to be the most eligible portion. At all times the
population of each of the two tribes has been approximately equal. There continued to come forth from the
Shoshones intermittent protests, which at last reached the
halls of Congress,,and in 1927 had a long delayed fruition.
In that year the Committee on Indian Affairs of the House
of Representatives reported a bill to make atonement for
the wrongs that for nearly half a century had been left
without redress. House Report No. 1628, 69th Congress,
2nd Session, Congressional Record, vol. 68, part 1, p. 625.

SHOSHONE TRIBE v. U. S.
476

Opinion of the Court.

Extracts from that report are printed in the margin.8 The
bill so proposed was passed, but was vetoed by the President, chiefly for the reason that it made provision for the
payment of interest at five per cent per annum on. the
value of any property appropriated in violation of the
treaty or wrongfully disposed of. Congressional Record,
vol. 68, part 3, page 2414, 69th Congress, 2nd session. On
February 4, 1927, the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs
reported a new bill, with the statement that it had been
redrafted to correct the objection of the President and
that it was identical with the earlier bill except for the
interest provrision, though in truth other verbal changes
had been made in the process of revision. Senate Report
No. 1389, Congressional Record, vol. 68, part 3, p. 2921.
The bill so revised became Chapter 302 of the Laws of
1927, the jurisdictional act under which the present suit
has been maintained.
Upon these facts the Court of Claims decided that the
occupancy of the Arapahoes became definitive and perma"Despite the fact that the United States expressly guaranteed
to these Indians the uninterrupted use and occupancy of the reservation, and against the protests of the Shoshones of said Wind River
Res-rvation in Wyoming, the northern band of the Arapahoes, under
military escort, were moved upon said reservation in the winter
of 1877-78.
"In order to disarm the Shoshones they were assured by the military authorities that the Arapahoes would be removed from the
reservation the following year. Since then the Shoshones have frequently protested against the alleged unlawful appropriation of their
reservation but have received no relief from the Government. On the
contrary, the Government has allowed the Arapahoes upon the reservation and treated the funds claimed by the Shoshones as though
they were the joint property of both tribes.
"The purpose of the bill is to permit the Shoshones to submit
their claims for alleged appropriation of property to the Court of
Claims, and your committee feels that in view of the strong showing
made the bill should be enadted at an early date."

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

nent on August 13, 1891, when the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs made public statement of his opinion that
they were entitled to enjoy the Reservation equally with
the Shoshones. The value at that time of an undivided
half interest in the land was found to be $2,050,597.50.
The value of the use and occupation between March 18,
1878 and August 13, 1891, was fixed at $332,475. The
sum of these values, along with a few minor items, was
$2,483,467.99, from which there was a deduction of $1,689,646.50, for offsets owing to the Government, and not in
controversy here. The balance, $793,821.49 is the amount
of the judgment now before us for review. As already
stated, neither the claimant nor the Government is content with the decision. Both agree that there was error
in fixing the value of the land.as of August 13,1891. The
claimant insists that it should be reckoned as of March 3,
1927, the date of the jurisdictional act, and that compensation should be added for the value of the intermediate use
and occupation. The Government insists that the value
should be reckoned as of March 18, 1878, when the unlawful occupancy began. The claimant makes the additional
point that, irrespective of the date at which the value is
computed, interest must be awarded up to the date of the
judgment on the recovery allowed.
First. The Court of Claims did not err in refusing to fix
the damages on the basis of the value of the land on
March 3, 1927.
The claimant takes the ground that the jurisdictional
act is an exercise of the power of eminent domain. The
argument is that by force of its provisions a trespass
which had been unlawful, though continuous, since March
18, 1878, was turned as of March, 1927, into a definitive and lawful taking. But this is to mistake utterly
the design and meaning of the statute. The jurisdictional act is not a taking of anything. It "makes no admission of liability, or of any ground of liability, on the

SHOSHONE TRIBE v. U. S.
476

Opinion of the Court.

part of the Government, but merely. prov'ides a forum
for the adjudication of the claim according to applicable
legal principles." United States v. Mille Lac Band 6f
Chippewa Indians, 229 U. S. 498, 500. No cause of action can be vindicated thereunder unless such a cause of
action as, apart from the impediment of governmental
immunity from suit, was already in existence. Under
the jurisdictional act the court is to inquire whether the
violation of the treaty of 1868 or of some later treaty or
agreement or some later act of Congress has given rise to
legal or equitable grounds of liability. True, the decree
when it is made "shall be in full settlement of all damages, if any, committed by the Government of the United
States and shall annul and cancel all claim, right, and
title of the Shoshone Indians in and to such money, lands,
or other property." But the claimant is not subject to
a duty either under that act or any othe to sue the Government at all. In the event of a failure to sue or to
prosecute the suit to a decree, rights and liabilities will
remain as they were before any act was passed. The
sovereign power is not exercised to extinguish titles or
other interests against the will of tribal occupants by
force of eminent domain.
If this conclusion might otherwise be doubtful (which
we do not suggest), the doubt would be dispelled by a
consideration of the history of the statute. The reports
of the Committees of Congress preceding the two billsthe one vetoed by the President and the one enacted into
law-make it plain that the purpose was to give reparation to the claimant for an "alleged unlawful appropriation" effected in the past, not to make a new and lawful.
appropriation by an exercise of sovereign power. So the
message of the President vetoing the first bill which permitted an award of interest, adds this comment to a
sketch of the grievance of the tribe: "It seems to me unreasonable to expect that the Government should be

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

charged with interest from the dates oforigin of such
ancient claims." Congress had no thought in its revision
of the rejected bill to prescribe present expropriation in
lieu of present reparation. As pointed out already, the
bill redrafted was understood to be identical with the first
one except that the interest provision had been dropped
to meet the President's objection.
Second. The Court of Claims erred in holding that
damages should be measured as of August 13, 1891, the
date of the letter from the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs to the Woodruff Commission, and in failing to
measure them as of 1878, the date of the unlawful entry.
The treaty of 1868 charged the Government with a duty
to see to it that strangers should never be permitted without the consent of the Shoshones to settle upon or reside
in the Wind River Reservation. That duty was not fulfilled. Instead, the Arapahoes were brought upon the
Reservation with a show of military power, and kept there
in defiance of 'the duty to expel them. The decision
below is based upon the theory that the letter of August
13, 1891, is the earliest overt act evincing a definitive purpose to make the occupancy permanent. But the Commissioner of Indian Affairs was not empowered to fix the
future policy of the Government, still less to exercise in
its behalf the power of eminent domain. He made no such
attempt. All that his -letter of August, 1891, expresses is
an opinion as to the meaning and operation of notorious
and accomplished facts. By deed as well as by word, he
had done his part for more than thirteen years in shaping
those facts to conform to his opinion. He had made report to the Secretary of the Interior in November, 1877,
that the transfer of the Arapahoes to the Wind River
Reservation was a movement then in progress. He had
notified the local agent in April, 1878, to indicate any
other measures necessary to settle the intruders. He had
turned a deaf ear to many a remonstrance by the tribe

SHOSHONE TRIBE v. U. S.
476

Opinion of the Court.

whose possession had been violated. In so far as his own
opinion and intention were facts of any moment, he had
manifested them too often and too plainly, by conduct and
by speech alike, to leave his attitude in doubt. Little
wonder that counsel for the claimant are at one with
counsel for the Government in rejecting August, 1891, as
the date when occupancy became more than a temporary
trespass.
If the date adopted by the Court of Claims is not accepted as the true one, the question is before us, what
other shall be substituted? Looking at events in retrospect through the long vista of the years we can see that
from the outset the occupancy of the Reservation was intended to be permanent; that, however tortious in its
origin, it has been permanent in fact; and that the Government of the United States through the action and inaction of its executive and legislative departments for
half a century of time, has ratified the wrong, adopting
the de facto appropriation by relation as of the date of
its beginning. To see the facts in true perspective we
must view them in their totality and not in isolation.
There are the reports at the beginning as to the purpose
of the settlement; the words and the silence of administrative officers when entreated to banish the intruders;
the creation of schools for the education of their youth
as for that of the youth already there (Report of Commissioner of Indian Affairs, 1879, p. 169); and most important of all, the statutes already summarized, recognizing the Arapahoes equally with the Shoshones as
occupants of the land, accepting their deeds of cession,
assigning to the tribes equally the privilege of new allotments, and devoting to the two equally the award of
future benefits. What meaning can be ascribed to all
these cumulative tokens of intention unless it be that the
intruders have been confirmed in their occupancy as of
the date of the intrusion? Cf. United States v. Creek

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

Nation, 295 U. S. 103, 110. The Shoshones might protest, as they did, that in setting their hands to the agreement, they did not assent to the violation of treaty
stipulations. They might reserve as much as they
pleaed claims, present and past, for the recovery of damages. Whatever their provisos, the outstanding fact remained that for good or for ill, the Arapahoes were to
dwell upon the soil along with them. "The adoption by
the United States of the wrongful act of any officer is
of course an adoption of the act when and as committed,
and causes such act of the officer to be, in virtue of the
statute, a rightful appropriation by the Government, for
which compensation is provided." Crozier v. Krupp, 224
U. S.290, 305.
Confusion is likely to result from speaking of the wrong
to the Shoshones as a destruction of theif title. Title in
the strict sense was always in the United States, though
the Shoshones had the treaty right of occupancy with all
its beneficial incidents. United States v. Creek Nation,
supra, p. 109. What those incidents are, it is needless to
consider now. Cf. United States v. Cook, 19 Wall. 591;
Pine River Logging Co. v. United States, 186 U. S. 279;
United States v. Paine Lumber Co., 206 U. S.467. The
right of occupancy is the primary one to which the incidents attach, and division of the right with strangers is
an appropriation of the land pro tanto, in substance, if
not in form.
Third. The claimant's damages include such additional
amount beyond the value of its property rights when
taken by the Government as may be necessary to the
award of just compensation, the increment to be measured either by interest on the value or by such other
standard as may be suitable in the light of all the circumstances.
The fact is unimportant that the taking was tortious
in its origin, if it was made lawful by relation. Crozier

SHOSHONE TRIBE v. U. S.
476

Opinion of the Court.

v. Krupp, supra. The fact also is unimportant that it
was a partial taking only, and that eviction was not complete. Jacobs v. United States, 290 U. S. 13, 16; United
States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316, 327-330; Hurley v. Kincaid, 285 U. S. 95, 104. Finally the fact is unimportant,
there having been an appropriation of property within
the meaning of the Fifth Amendment, that the jurisdictional act is silent as to an award of interest or any substitute therefor. United States v. Creek Nation, supra,
pp:ll0, 111. Cf. Yankton Sioux Tribe v.. United States,
272 U. S. 351, -359. Given such a taking, the right to
interest or a fair equivalent, attaches itself automatically
to the right to an award of damages. Jacobs v. United
States, supra; Phelps v. United States, 274 U. S. 341;
Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v. United States, 265 U. S. 106, 123;
SeaboardAir Line Co. v. United S ates, 261 U. S. 299, 306.
These cases distinguish United States v. North American
Co., 253 U. S. 330, cited by the Government which "rested
upon its special facts." Jacobs v. United States, supra.
Nor does the nature of the right divested avail to modify
the rule. Power to control and manage the property and
affairs of Indians in good faith for their betterment and
welfare may be exerted in many ways and at times even
in derogation of the provisions of a treaty. Lone Wolf v.
Hitchcock, 187 U. S.553, 564, 565, 566. The power does
not extend so far as to enable the Government "to give
the tribal lands to others, or to appropriate them to its
own purposes, without rendering, or assuming an obligation to render, just compensation . . .;for that 'would
not be an exercise of guardianship, but an act of confiscation.'" United States v. Creek Nation, supra, p. 110;
citing Lane v. Pueblo of Santa Rosa, 249 U. S. 110, 113;
Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294, 307-308.
The right of the Indians to the occupancy of the lands
pledged to them, may be one of occupancy only, but it is
"as sacred as that of the United States to the fee."

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

299 U. S.

United States v. Cook, supra, p. 593; Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, supra; Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665, 671; Yankton Sioux Tribe v. United States, supra. Spoliation is
not management.
The judgment should be reversed and the cause remanded to the Court of Claims for further proceedings
in accord with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. HUDSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 97.

Argued November 17, 18, 1936.-Decided January 11, 1937.

The Silver Purchase Act of June 19, 1934, imposed on transfers of
any interest in silver bullion a tax of 50%7o of the profits over cost
and allowed expenses, payable as to future transfers by attaching
stamps to the memoranda of sale. Transfers made on or after
May 15, 1934, and prior to the date of the Act were also subjected
to the tax, payable, however, in a different way. Held:
1. That the tax is a special income tax. P. 500.
2. Congress had power to impose this tax in addition to the tax
imposed on the same profits, with other gains, under the general
income tax law. Id.
3. Making the tax provision retroactive for a pcriod of 35 days,
to include profits from transactions consummated while the statute
was in course of enactment, was consistent with due process.
Id..
82 Ct. Cls. 15; 12 F. Supp. 620; 13 F. Supp. 640, reverzed.
CERTIORARI* to review a judgment sustaining a claim
against the United States for a tax refund.

Assistant Attorney General Jackson, with whom Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. Sewall Key, George H.
*See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

