SOLER & CO. v. INSURANCE CO.
Counsel for Parties.

41

held liable for injuries received on navigable waters in
consequence of the master's negligence. The respondent
here seeks to enforce a contract of employment which had
no direct and immediate relation to navigation, business
or commerce of the sea. North Pacific Steamship Co. v.
Hall Bros. Marine Railway & Shipbuilding Co., 249 U. S.
119, 125; Benedict on Admiralty (5th ed.) ยง 63.
The court below reached the correct conclusion, and
its judgment must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part'in the consideration
or decision of this case.
JOSE RIVERA SOLER & CO. v. UNITED FIREMEN'S INSURANCE COMPANY OF PHILADELPIIIA.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 31.

krgued October 20, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

The mere facis tht he amount claimed in a proof of loss under a
fir( iu1suracc1 p)olicy greatly exceeded the amount allowed by the
jurv inthe Irial of the case and tlai one of the items claimed was
not .-u)l)orted by any evidence do not give rise to a conclusive
t)re,umption of fraud. P. 49.
S1 F. (2d) 3S5, reversed.
U. S. 1)i.trict Court for Puerto Rico affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 298 U. S. 651, to review a judgment reversing a recovery in the District Court of the United States
for Puerto Rico on a policy of fire insurance. The court
below had at first decided the other way. 77 F. (2d) 891.

Mr. Francis H. Dexter for petitioner.
Mr. Hcnri Brown, with whom Mr. Carroll G. Walter
was on the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent, the Insurance Company, issued to petitioner a $30,000.00 fire policy covering certain personalty
in Puerto Rico, distributed thus: $15,000.00 on stock of
merchandise, unembroidered, embroidered and in the
process of being embroidered, or for repairs, and on cost
of labor performed thereon, including, etc.; $12,000.00 on
machinery of every description, etc.; $3,000.00 on furniture, fixtures, etc.
After a fire, petitioner presented sworn proof of loss
exceeding $35,000.00 and demanded payment of the full
amount of the policy. This was refused. It then
brought this action in the District Court of the United
States for Puerto Rico to recover the sum demanded with
interest. Claiming that the assured had acted fraudulently and had failed to comply with specified conditions,
the Company denied any liability. There was a verdict
for $17,000.00 plus interest; an appropriate judgment followed. A bill of exceptions, also ten assignments of error,
were filed, and the cause went to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, First Circuit.
That court, having heard the matter, affirmed the challenged judgment-May 25, 1935. The supporting opinion of that (late states: "The defenses now relied upon
rest upon breaches of what are commonly referred to as
'conditions subsequent,' the real defense being that the
plaintiff's claim was essentially fraudulent. The provisions of the policy relied on in defense are the so-called
'Iron Safe' clause and condition 12."
The "Iron Safe" clause requires the assured to keep "a
complete itemized inventory of slock on hand," and "a
set of books, which shall clearly and plainly present a
complete record of business transacted, including all purchases, sales and shipments"; also that these shall be
"securely locked in a fireproof safe at night" etc.

SOLER & CO. v. INSURANCE CO.
45

Opinion of the Court.

Condition 12 provides: "If the claim be in any respect
fraudulent, or' if any false declaration be made or used
in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices
are used by the Insured or anyone acting on his behalf
to obtain any benefit under this policy;
. . all
benefit under this policy shall be forfeited."
The first seven assignments, relating to the failure of
the trial judge to direct a verdict, also numbers eight
and nine, were overruled.
The eighth assignment assailed the refusal to instruct
that no evidence tended to support the $2,524.50 item
for cost of labor found in the proof of loss; the ninth
challenged the failure to instruct that there was nothing
from which the jury could determine the market value
of certain merchandise said to have been sold to the
assured-by its president.
Concerning the tenth assignment the Court said, "The
value of the destroyed property as claimed by the plaintiff was about $34,000.00. The jury's verdict was for
$17,000.00. The defendant contends that the verdict, fixing the value of the property at only about one-half of
what was claimed in the proof of loss, established as a
matter of law that there was fraudulent over-valuation
by the plaintiff in the proof of loss. Obviously, this
question could not arise until after the verdict; it
amounts to a contention that the verdict in favor of the
plaintiff was inconsistent and contradictory to the finding
on damages. Questions of this character should be presented in the first instance to the trial judge. He has
never passed upon this point. No ruling of his upon it
was excepted to; no exception relating to it appears in
the record. We cannot consider it."
A rehearing was granted. A second judgment followed
(January 7, 1936) which vacated the earlier one and
remanded the cause to the trial court "with directions to
enter an order in arrest of judgment, with costs to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

appellant in both courts." An opinion, from which the
judge who wrote the original one dissented, pointed out
the reasons for the action taken. This considered only
the tenth assignment of error and the one based upon
failure to direct a verdict because no evidence tended
to support the $2,524.50 item for "Labor on goods in
process." Assignments based upon alleged violations of
the "Iron Safe" clause were not discussed.
The court said: "Under the 10th assignment itis contended that the verdict and judgment are contrary to
law, that the amount of the loss fixed by the verdict is
so inconsistent with the proof of loss and the provisions
of the policy, both of which are made a part of the pleadings, as to show that the plaintiff's sworn proof of loss
was fraudulent as a matter of law." "Bills of exception
are necessary to preserve exceptions to rulings made in
the progress of the trial, but errors appearing on the
face of the record proper need not be so preserved. In
the cout t below the defendant could have made a'motion
in arrest of judgment, but no such motion was necessary."
"In considering the question raised by the 10th assignment the evidence introduced at the trial and brought
here by bill of exceptions is not to be considered, for that
is no part of the record proper. The inquiry is confined
to such matters as appear in the record proper. That
record in this case includes the complaint, proof of loss
and the policy (which are included in the complaint),
the verdict and judgment." "It is perfectly plain that
the verdict of the jury is entirely inconsistent with the
allegations of the complaint and the proof of loss, and
we think this disparity of nearly $18,000.00 shows on its
face and as a matter of law that the sworn proof of loss
was fraudulent and, if so, then, under the 12th condition
of the policy, all benefit thereunder was forfeited. The
verdict should have been either for nothing or in the
neighborhood of $30,000.00."

SOLER & CO. v. INSURANCE CO.
45

Opinion of the Court.

Also: "Under the motion for a directed verdict the
evidence introduced at the trial and included in the bill
of exceptions is open for consideration. There is no
evidence in the case and counsel for the plaintiff has
pointed out none, though requested to do so, showing
that the cost of labor 'on goods in. process' was $2,524.50,
as stated in the sworn proof of loss. The only evidence
in the record relating to that subject is that given by
Soler himself (president of the plaintiff company) where
he states that the sum of $2,524.50 was the contract price
which the company was to receive for manufacturing the
goods of others. If the statement in the proof of loss,
to which Soler made oath, did not represent the cost of
labor, but was the contract price which the plaintiff was
to receive from others for whom goods were being manufactured, no other conclusion can reasonably be drawn
than that the statement in the proof of loss was knowingly made for the purpose of getting money from the
insurance company that the plaintiff was not entitled to
and was fraudulent. And, under Condition 12 of the
policy, deprived the plaintiff of its benefits. Soler was
the president of the plaintiff company and made oath to
the proof of loss."
The second opinion holds in effect that fraud by the
plaintiff conclusively appears on the face of the record
without giving consideration to any evidence; also that
fraud on its part with respect to the item "Labor on goods
in process" included in the proof of loss so clearly appeared from the evidence that the defendant was entitled
to a directed verdict.
We cannot, accept the view that a conclusive presumption of fraud arose because the verdict was far less than
the amount stated in the proof of loss. If the bill of exceptions be disregarded we must assume the jury was
properly instructed-were told that condition 12 required
a verdict for the insurer "if the claim be in any respect

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

fraudulent." The finding for the assured indicates that
they discovered no fraud. Policy holders may present inaccurate proofs of loss without conscious dishonesty or
intent to defraud; different views of values are common;
memory is faulty; insurance company and assured often
entertain widely different views concerning the policy;
and evidence cannot always be produced to establish
something declared to be true in entire good faith.
For like reasons we cannot say the trial judge, even if
he thought there was complete failure to sustain the item
for "Labor on goods in process," should have ruled that
this alone was enough to show fraud and required a directed verdict for the Company. Condition number 12
was read to the jury and declared to be "legal and part
of the conditions of the contract." He also charged
clearly enough that any dishonest claim made with intent
to defraud would render the policy inoperative. Nevertheless the jury found for the assured. In these circumstances we cannot say there was a conclusive presumption of purpose to defraud.
Although the court below, in its first opinion, clearly
overruled assignments based upon the "Iron Safe" clause
and said nothing about them in the second, counsel insist
that they are before us and adequate to support the questioned judgment. If, in the circumstances they can be
considered at all, it is enough to say that the jury was
well instructed concerning the necessity of complying
with that clause; the verdict negatives the notion of
fraud. There was conflicting evidence; the weight to be
given this was for them to determine.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
reversed. We find no material error in the action of the
District Court, and its judgment is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

