OCTOBER TERM, 1936.

410

Counsel for Petitioner.

299 U.,S.

BENGZON v. SECRETARY OF JUSTICE OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE PHILIPPINES.

No. 214.

Argued December 18, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.

1. An appropriation bill is one the primary and specific aim of
which is to make appropriations of money from the public treasury.
P. 413.
2. The bill which became Act 4051, Laws, of the Philippines (Retirement Gratuity Law), provided for the payment of retirement
gratuities to officers and employees of the Insular Government who
were retired as a result of the reorganization or reduction in personnel thereof. The provisions of the bill dealt largely with
matters 'relating to the right to, and the amount of, the gratuity.
Section 10 provided for an appropriation of funds from the public
treasury for carrying out the purposes of the Act. Section 7
made eligible for the gratuity justices of the peace who, under the
provisions of another Act, were required to relinquish office in
1933. Held, the Governor General was without authority to veto
§ 7 of the bill under § 19 of the Organic Act; which permits a
veto of part' of a bill only in the case of an "item of an appropriation bill." P. 414.
3. This conclusion is not affected by a clause in the Gratuity Law
declaring that if any of its provisions be disapproved by the Governor General or be held invalid, other provisions shall not be
affected thereby. P. 415.
4. The title of an Act may be resorted to as an aid to' its meaning
in cases of doubt. P. 416.
Reversed.
CERTIORARI* -to review a judgment of the Supreme
Court of the Commonwealth of the Philippines, which
affirmed a decision of the trial court dismissing upon
demurrer a petition for a writ of mandamus.

Mr. Pedro Y. Ylagan submitted for petitioner.
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

BENGZON v. SECRETARY OF JUSTICE. 411
410

Opinion of the. Court.

Mr. Eugene M. Caffey, with whom Mr. Lowell W.
Bassett was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought by petitioner against respondents in the Court of First Instance of Manila, for a writ
of mandamus commanding respondents to approve and
order payment of a gratuity awarded to him by § 7 of the
Retirement Gratuity Law (Act 4051, Laws of the Philippines), notwithstanding the veto of that section by the
Governor-General. The Court of First Instance, upon respondents' demurrer, dismissed the action. Upon appeal,
the Supreme Court of the Commonwealth of the Philippines affirmed that decision, holding that the veto by the
Governor-General of § 7 was authorized by § 19 of the
Qrga.ic Act of August 29, 1916, 39 Stat. 545, 551. Because of the importance of the question, we granted
certiorari.
The Retirement Gratuity Law contains twelve sections.
It is entitled, "An Act to, provide for the payment of retirement gratuities to officers and employees of the Insular Government retired from Aohe service as a result of
the reorganization or reduction of personnel thereof, including the justices of thf peace who must relinquish
office in accordance With the provisions of Act numbered
Thirty-eight Hundred and Ninety-nine, and for other
purposes."
Section 1 classifies the officers and employees, separated
or retired.from the service, who shall be 'entitled to a.
gratuity,' and provides :a method for 'ascertaining the
amount. ' Section 2 accords preferences in.the case of certain officers and employees; .§ 3 fixes the basis for the copaputation of the gratuity; § 4 allows an officer or employee,
to choose between the gratuity granted by. the act and

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

gratuities conferred by other acts; § 5 provides for succession in respect of unpaid gratuities in case of death;
and § 6 authorizes a conditional reappointment of persons separated or retired under the act.
Section 8-passing for the present § 7-abolishes the
offices and positions vacated by the separation or retirement of officers and employees, with certain exceptions.
Section 9 excepts from the benefits of the act designated
officers and employees. Section 10 provides, "The necegsary sum to carry out the purposes of this Act is hereby
appropriated out of any funds in the Insular Treasury
not otherwise appropriated." Section 11 fixes the effective date of the act; and § 12 provides that if any provision of the act be disapproved by the Governor-General
or be held unconstitutional or invalid by a competent
court, none of the other sections or provisions of the act
shall be affeted thereby.
The Governor-General returned the act with the endorsement, "Approved, section 7 excepted, February 21,
1933." Section 7, thus vetoed, reads:
"The Justices of the Peace who must relinquish office
during the year nineteen hundred and thirty-three in accordance with the provisions of Act Numbered Thirty,eight hundred and ninety-nine, shall also be
entitled to
the gratuities provided for in this Act."
Section 19 of the Organic Act, supra, confers upon the
Governor-General the usual and general veto power.
That is to say, it authorizes him, if he does not approve a
bill or joint resolution passed by both houses of the legislature, to "return it with his objections to that house in
which it shall have originated"; and it then can become
law only if upon reconsideration two-thirds of the members elected to each house shall agree to pass it. This
general power requires the veto to include the whole bill.
But the section contains an exception, namely"The Governor General shall have the power to veto
any particular item or items of an appropriation bill, but

BENGZON v. SECRETARY OF JUSTICE. 413
410

Opinion of the Court.

the veto shall not affect the item or items to which he
does not object."
This exceptional power, it will be seen, is limited to
appropriation bills; any other kind of legislation being
controlled by the general rule. And its exercise is restricted to the disapproval of a particular item or particular items of such a bill. The precise question for consideration, therefore, is-did the bill which became Act 4051
constitute an appropriation bill; and, if so, was § 7,
within the meaning of the foregoing provision of the
Organic Act, an item of such bill?
It first is to be observed that the title of the act in no
wise suggests that what follows is an appropriation bill;
and an examination of the act itself discloses that, with
the exception of § 10, the bill itself proposed only general legislation. Eliminating § 10, the remaining eleven
sections could stand as a generic act of legislation, leaving
the specific matter of appropriation to be dealt with by
later enactment. The term "appropriation act" obviously would not include an act of general legislation; and
a bill proposing such an act is not converted into an appropriation bill simply because it has had engraf ted upon
it a section making an appropriation. An appropriation
bill is one the primary and specific aim of which is to
make appropriations of money from the public treasury.
To say otherwise would be to confuse an appropriation
bill proposing sundry appropriations of money with a bill
proposing sundry provisions of general law and carrying
an appropriation as an incident. The Supreme Court of
Texas in Fulmore v. Lane, 104 Tex. 499, 512; 140 S. W.
405, 1082, clearly pointed out the distinction between the
veto power in respect of a bill in the general sense and
an appropriation bill. "Nowhere in the Constitution,"
the court said, "is the authority given the Governor to
approve in' part and disapprove in part a bill. The only
additional authority to disapproving a bill in whole is

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

that given to object to an item or items where a bill contains several items'of appropriation. It follows conclusively that where the veto power is attempted to be
exercised to objegt to a paragraph or portion of a bill
other than an item or items, or to language qualifying an
appropriation or directing the method of its uses, he exceeds the, constitutional authority vested in him, and his
objection to such paragraph, or portion of a bill, or language qualifying an appropriation, or directing the
method of its use, becomes non-effective."
if the Governor-General had power under the foregoing
clause of § 19 of the Organic Act to veto § 7 of the gratuities bill, he had like power to veto § 2, granting preferences
to certain classes of officers and employees; or § 4, allowing
a choice between the gratuity granted by the act under
review and a gratuity granted by some other act; or § 5,
according a right of succession to unpaid gratuities in case
of death; or § 6, providing for conditional reappointment
of persons separated or retired under the act; or to veto.
as many of them as he saw fit. No more than any of the
designated sections, does § 7 constitute an item of appro*priation. All of them are distinct parts of an act of
general legislation. The elimination of anyby an exercise
of the veto power, with the going into effect of the remaining portions of the bill as a onsequence (if the veto be
not overruled by a two-thirds vote of each house), would
result in the enactment of a general law in an emasculated
form not intended by the legislature and against the will,
perhaps, of a majority of each house. •This would not be
negation of an item or items of appropriation by veto but,
in effect, affirmative legislation by executive edict.
*So, even if it be conceded. that the bill could be characterized as an appropriation bill, § 7 is not an "item"
within the meaning of § 19 of the Organic Act. An item
of an appropriation bill obviously means an -itemwhich in
itself is a specific appropriation of money, not some gen-

BENGZON v. SECRETARY OF JUSTICE. 415
410

Opinion of the Court.

eral provision of law which happens to be put into an
appropriation bill. Provisions granting power to the
executive to veto an item or items of an appropriation bill
are to be found, in various forms of expression, in many
of the state constitutions. Their object is to safeguard the
public treasury against the pernicious effect of what is
called "1g-rolling"-by which, in order to secure the requisite majority to carry necessary and proper items of appropriation, unnecessary or even indefensible items are
sometimes included.
Section 73 of the Constitution of Mississippi provides
that the Governor may veto parts of any appropriation
bill; and although "parts" would seem to be a word of
wider application than the words "item or items,"' the
Supreme Court of that state, State v. Holder, 76 Miss.
158, 180-181; 23 So. 643, held that it was not designed to
enable the Governor to veto legislation carried in an appropriation bill. "Section 73," the court said, "was
framed with a view of guarding against the evils of omnibus appropriation bills, securing unrighteous support
from diverse interests, and to enable the governor to approve and make law some appropriations, and to put
others to the test of securing a two-thirds vote of the legislature as the condition of becoming law. Thus viewed,
section 73 is eminently wise, and will prove useful in
practice as corrective of an evil, but if a single bill, making one whole of its constituent parts, 'fitly jointed together,' and all necessary in legislative contemplation,
may be dissevered by the governor, and certain parts torn
from their connection may be approved, and thereby
become law, while the other parts, unable to secure a twothirds vote in both houses, will not be law, we shall have
a condition of things never contemplated, and appalling
in its possible consequences."
The court below attached importance to § 12 of the act
under review, which provides that if any section or pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

vision of the act be disapproved by the Governor-General
or held to be unconstitutional or invalid by a competent
court, none of the other sections or provisions should be
affected thereby. That court viewed the italicized clause
of this provision as indicating that the legislature intended the act "to be an appropriation measure with various items," since it anticipated the possibility of a partial
veto. Just why this clause was inserted by the legislature
does not appear. It may have been merely formal, or
inserted out of abundance of caution. Certainly it could
not have such force as to convert what plainly was a
proffer of general legislation into an appropriation bill.
Although the title is only a formal part of an act, and may
be resorted to as an aid to the meaning of a statute only
in cases of doubt, Hadden v. Collector, 5 Wall. 107, 110,
the title of the present act, at least, has the effect of overcoming such extrinsic aid as the clause relied upon otherwise might afford to the construction of the act by the
court below. If the Philippine Legislature regarded the
bill as an appropriation bill, it is strange that the words by
which that body described and characterized its own proposed act afford no hint to that effect. Compare Holy
Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457, 462-463.
We conclude that the Governor-General was vithout
power to separately veto § 7 of the Retirement Gratuities
Act. The judgment of the lower court must be reversed,
and the cause remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with the foregoing opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

