OCTOBER TERM, 1936.

280

Syllabus.

299) U. S.

uude of the respondent's operations and expenditures.

As pointed out in McNutt v. General Motors Acceptance
Corporation, supra, at pages 180 and 181, these factors
are irrevelant upon the issue of the value of the right for
which protection is here sought.
Since the allegation as to amount in controversy was
challenged in appropriate manner, and no sufficient evidence was offered in support thereof, the bill should have
been dismissed. McNutt v. General Motors Acceptance
Corp., supra, p. 190. The Circuit Court of Appeals had
jurisdiction of the appeal and as the District Court lacked
jurisdiction its decree dismissing the bill should have
been affirmed on that ground.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded to the District Court with
directions to dismiss the bill of complaint for want of
jurisdiction.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration Qr
decision of this case.
ET AL. V. LONG, COMMISSIONER
CORPORATIONS AND TAXATION.

BINNEY

OF

APPEAL FROM THE PROBATE COURT, COUNTY OF NORFOLK, OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 77.

Argued November 17, 1936.-Decided December 14, 1936.

1. Massachusetts succession tax (Gen. Laws, Ter. Ed., c. 65, § 1), on
transfers made to take effect in possession and enjoyment after
the donor's death, held consistent with the contract clause of the
Federal Constitution and the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, as applied upon the death, intestate, of a life tenant,
to remainders then vesting but theretofore contingent, under a
trust inter vivos antedating the taxing legislation. Coolidge v.
Long, 282 U. S. 582, distinguished. P. 286.

BINNEY v. LONG.
280

Counsel for Parties.

2. In assessing a graduated succession tax there is no constitutional
objection to aggregating various interests passing and accruing *o
the same beneficiary from or on account of the death of the same
decedent and thus increasing the rate over that which would be
applicable if the interests were assessed separately. P. 288.
3. Under the Massachusetts succession tax law (§ 2, supra), succession to property through the failure of an intestate to exercise a
power of appointment under a non-testamentary conveyance of the
property by deed of trust, made after September 1, 1907, is not
taxed; whereas if the conveyance was made before that date, the
succession isnot only taxable but the rate of tax may be greatly
increased by aggregating the value of that succession with other
interests derived by the transferee by inheritance from the donee
of the power. Held repugnant to the equal protection clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 288.
4. Under the Massachusetts succession tax law (§ 2, supra), where
property passes to a lineal descendant as remainderman under his
ancestor's will through the failure of a deceased life tenant to
exercise a power of appointment, the property is treated as coming
from the donee of the power if the bequest antedated September 1,
1907; otherwise, as coming from the testator; with the result that,
in the one case, the rate of tax being graduated, the tax may be
increased by aggregating with the bequest the value of other
interests inherited by the same beneficiary from the donee of the
power, whereas, in the other case there is not such aggregation and
increase. Held repugnant to the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 292.
199 N. E. 528, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment of a Probate Court in Massachusetts entered in pursuance of a rescript from the Supreme Judicial Court of the Commonwealth. The judgment was on a petition of trustees and an administrator
for abatement of succession taxes.
Mr. Talcott M. Banks, Jr., with whom Mr. R. Ammi

Cutter was on the brief, for appellants.

Mr. James J. Ronan, Assistant Attorney General of
Massachusetts, with whom Mr. Paul A. Dever, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellee.

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

299 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This appeal is from an order denying abatement of succession taxes assessed in respect of the estate of Hetty
S. L. Cunningham, late a resident of Brookline, Massachusetts. Mrs. Cunningham died intestate in August,
1931, leaving as her sole heirs four children, who, with
the trustees and certain beneficiaries of three trusts
wherein she had life estates, were the petitidners below
and are the appellants here. She left a substantial estate
of her own which descended to her four children. Their
succession to this estate was taxed, the tax was paid, and
its legality is not questioned. Pursuant to the terms of
the three trusts, her four children, succeeded, upon her'
death, to the ownership and possession of certain property whereof she had been life tenant with power of
appointment of principal; and succeeded to the enjoyment as life beneficiaries of other property as to. which
she had preceded them as-life tenant. The appellee held
the succession to the trust property taxable, and added
the value of the corpus of Mrs. Cunningham's own estate
and that of the interests to which the appellants succeeded upon her death, with the result that the trust interests took a higher rate. The taxes assessed upon, the
three trust interests were paid, and a petition was file4
in the probate court for abatement in the view that the
exaction was forbidden by Article I, § 10, and the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. The
probate court reserved the questions, the Supreme Judicial Court decided them adversely to appellants,' and
upon its rescript the petition was denied.
In 1877 Mrs. Cunningham (then Hetty Sullivan Lawrence) conveyed property in trust reserving a life estate
in the income but no power to revoke, alter or amend.
A1\iss. Adv. Sheets, 1936, p. 153; 199 N. E. 528.

BINNEY v. LONG.
280

Opinion of the Court.

The income was to be paid for twenty years after her
death "to and among such of" her children as "may be
living at the time of payment," living issue of a deceased
child to take by rightof representation. If, at her death,
or at any time during the twenty years thereafter', no
child or issue of hers should be living the trustees were
to transfer the principal to the heirs of her father, if he
were then dead; otherwise, to her own heirs. She married and had five children, one of whon born in 1S92,
died in 1923, without issue. The others, born between
1885 and 1890, are appellants.
In 1862 Amos A. Lawrence, the intestate's father, paid
a sum of money to an insurance company which agreed
to pay the income to the intestate and, upon her death,
to distribute the principal and any unpaid income, to
such persons as she might, by will, appoint, and in default of appointment, to her surviving children.
Sarah E. Lawrence, the intestate's mother, died May
27, 1891. Her will bequeathed property in trust to pay
the-income to each of her six children, two of whom still
survive, and to the issue, per stirpes, of any deceased
child so long as any of her children should live. For
twenty years after the death of the last survivor of her
children the income was to be paid to her grandchildren
and their issue, per stirpes, and, at the expiration of that
period, the principal was to be divided between the
grandchildren, per capita, descendants of a deceased
grandchild to divide his or her share per stirpes. Each
child of Sarah E. Lawrence was empowered to "appoint
the shares in which" the income given to his or her children and issue "shall be apportioned among such children
and issue" and further to appoint the proportions in
which the principal "shall be divided among such children
and issue." Under this provision the four children of
Mrs. Cunningham, who are appellants, succeeded to
equal life estates in their mother's share, she having failed
to exercise her power.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

When the trusts were created Massachusetts imposed
no inheritance or succession tax. The first statute imposing such a tax 2 applied only to collateral inheritance

and excluded devolution to lineal descendants. In 1907
a law was enacted taxing testamentary devolution of
property to lineal descendants; this made no mention of
powers of appointment; the tax was graduated according to amounts and relationships, but there was no requirement of aggregation of various interests passing and
accruing to a single beneficiary from or on account of the
death of a decedent to ascertain the rate of tax. Such
a provision for uniting interests was enacted in 1924;
and incorporated with the first section of the act of 1907
as amended into a jingle section.5
The act of 1907 and its amendments were prospective
in operation .and exempted estates of those who had died
prior to its effective date.' This exemption has extended
to all interests which passed or accrued upon the death
of Sarah E. Lawrence, the intestate's mother.
In 1909 provision was made for a succession tax upon
the occasion of the exercise of, or nonexercise of, powers
of appointment.! This, in its present form, is § 2 of chapter 65 of the General Laws.' The effective date of this
provision was declared to be September 1, 1907, which
was the effective date of the 1907 act, and was twentyone months prior to the effective date of the 1909 act in
which the provision is embodied. It is conceded that
there are no other statutes purporting to tax succession
under nontestamentary gifts.
'Acts 1891, c. 425.
'Acts 1907, c. 563, effective Sept. 1, 1907.
'Acts 1924, c. 128.
'General Laws (Ter. ed.) c. 65, § 1.
'General Laws (Ter. ed.) c. 65, § 36.
Acts of 1909, c. 527, § 8.
'General Laws (Ter. ed.) c. 65, § 2.

BINNEY v. LONG.
280

Opinion of the Court.

The acts are compiled in the General Laws of the Commonwealth, and, so far as material to the present controversy, are:
General Laws (Ter. ed.) c. 65:
"Section 1. All property within the jurisdiction of the
commonwealth, corporeal or incorporeal, and any interest
therein, belonging to inhabitants of the commonwealth
S. . , which shall pass by will, or by laws regulating intestate succession, or by deed, grant or gift, except in cases
of a bona fide purchase for full consideration in money
or money's worth, made in contemplation of the death
of the grantor or donor or made or intended to take effect
in possession or enjoyment after his death . . . to any
person, absolutely or in trust . . . shall be subject to a
tax at the percentage rates fixed by the following table:
[A table of graduated rates here appears.]
"Provided, however, that no property or interest therein, which shall pass or accrue to or for the use of a person
in Class A, except a grandchild of the deceased, unless its
value exceeds ten thousand dollars, and no other property
or interest therein, unless its value exceeds one thousand
dollars, shall be subject to the tax imposed by this chapter, and no tax shall be exacted upon any property or interest so pas~ing or accruing which shall ;duce the value
of such property or interest below said amounts.
"All property and interests therein which shall pass
from a decedent to the same beneficiary by any one or
more of the methods hereinbefore specified and all beneficial interests which shall accrue in the manner hereinbefore provided to such beneficiary on account of the
death of such decedent shall be united and treated as a
single interest for the purpose of determining the tax
hereunder.
"Section 2. Whenever any person shall exercise a power
of appointment, derived from any disposition of prop7
erty made prior to September first, nineteen hundred and

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

seven, such appointment when made shall be deemed a
disposition of property by the person exercising such
power, taxable under section one, in the same manner as
Ihough the property to which such appointment relates
belonged absolutely to the donee of such power, and had
been bequeathed or devised by the donee by will; and
whenever any person possessing such a power of appointment so derived shall omit or fail to exercise the same
within the time provided therefor, in whole or in part,
a disposition of property taxable under section one shall
be deemed to take place to the extent of such omission or
failure in the same manner as though the persons thereby
becoming entitled to the possession or enjoyment of the
property to which such power related had succeeded
thereto by a will of the donee of the power failing to
exercise such power, taking effect at the time of such
omission or failure."
"Section 36. This chapter shall apply only to property
or interests therein passing or accruing upon the death
of persons dying on or after May fourth, nineteen hundred and twenty, and as to all property and interests
therein passing or accruing upon the death of persons
who have died prior to said date the laws theretofore
applicable shall remain in force; but so much of this chapter as relates to property or interests therein passing
by deed, grant or gift completed inter vivos in contemplation of death shall apply only to such deeds, grants
or gifts made on or after May twenty-seventh, nineteen
hundred and twenty."
THE 1877 TRUST.

The trust created by the intestate in 1877, by deed inter
vivos, reserved no power of revocation or alteration and,
in this respect, differed from that under consideration in
Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U. S. 260. The appel-

BINNEY v. LONG.
280

Opinion of the Court.

lants insist that the invalidity of § 1, supra, as applied
to their succession is established by Coolidge v. Long, 282
U. S. 582, since to tax them would under the doctrine
of that case impair the obligation of the intestate's contract, and deprive them of property without due process.
The court below thought that case not controlling because, there, the remainders were vested from the date
of the gift, whereas, here, the interests of appellants were
executory or, at the best, contingent remainders which
never vested until the intestate's death. In Coolidge v.
Long this court concluded that the tax laid by the act of
1907 offended the contract and due process clauses of
the Federal Constitution because the interests of the remaindermen had vested at the date of the creation of the
trust many years prior to the passage of the taxing act.
It was held that the mere taking possession of that which
had been vested in the beneficiaries for many years did
not amount to a taxable occasion and constitutionally
could not be so designated by the Commonwealth in view
of the complete vesting of the beneficiaries' estates in
remainder at the date of the execution of the deed.
The Supreme Judicial Court, following an unbroken
line of authority in Massachusetts, and in accordance
with the common law ' and the law as declared by this
court '"holds that the appellants' estates, under the trust
instrument of 1877, were, at most, contingent remainders
which did not vest until after the intestate's death, and
hence the transfers to them fell clearly within the statutory definition as made to take effect in possession or
enjoyment after the donor's death. The appellants urge
that, in imposing a succession tax, the state should disregard technical rules relating to the vesting of interests
and look to the substance; and they insist that for many
°1 Fearne, Contingent Remainders, (10 ed.) 397, 398; Gray, Perpetuities (3 ed.) 86.
" Wright v. Blakeslee, 101 U. S. 174, 177.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

years prior to 1907 those who were to take in succession
to the intestate were ascertained, subject only to the contingency that, as in Coolidge v. Long, some of them might
fall out of the class by death. The contention was made
and rejected in Coolidge v. Long. The fact that the remainders were vested from the date of the deed, and the
interests of those who took in remainder were merely subject to be defeated by a condition subsequent, was the
basis for the conclusion that the tax could not constitutionally be laid upon the occasion of their acquiring physical possession of what had, in the eye of the law, long
been their property. Having 1elied on legal rather than
practical considerations to invalidate the tax in Coolidge
v. Long, it would be inconsistent here to rely on practical
rather than legal considerations to invalidate the same
tax. The Commonwealth was not. prevented by the constitutional provisions which the appellants invoke from
taxing the succession under the 1877 trust upon the occasion of the intestate's death since the appellants' estates.
never vested until that event.
As Mrs. Cunningham's death was the occasion for a
tax upon the succession of those who take in remainder
after her life estate, we can conceive of no constitutional
objection to the statutory provisions for uniting the interest thus derived with that which the appellants acquired
in Mrs. Cunningham's own property at, her death, and
calculating the rate on the total according to a sliding
scale.
THE 1862 TRUST.

The act of 1907, (§ 1, supra) does not purport.to tax
complete and irrevocable transfers inter vivos, not in
contemplation of the donor's death, made subsequermt to
the effective date of the act. The 1862 contract was not
made in contemplation of the grantor's death; it lecame
effective when executed. Such a transfer made to-day
would result in no tax upon the interest acquired by the

BINNEY v. LONG.
280

Opinion of the Court.

life tenant or. upon those interests resulting from her
exercise or non-exercise of her power of appointment.
By the act of 1909, however, (§ 2, supra) the legislature,
while not.attempting to tax the interests of the appellants as derived in succession to Amos A. Lawrence, does
essay to tax those interests as derived from the intestate
as the holder of a power of appointment under Amos
A. Lawrence's contract. But the statutes do not tax
similar interests the enjoyment of which depends upon
the exercise or nonexercise of a power embodied in a deed
effective after September 1, 1907. The law, therefore,
creates two classes,-the one composed of beneficiaries
who take at the death of the donee of a power created
by an instrument antedating 1907, who are taxed,-and
the other of beneficiaries who take in succession to the
donee of a power conferred by a deed executed subsequent to 1907, who are not taxed. Upon its face the
statute arbitrarily selects a past date, taxing the beneficiaries of an act if done prior to, and leaving untaxed
beneficiaries of a precisely similar act if done subsequent
to that date. In justification of the discrimination the
court below suggests that any change in the state's policy of taxation must take effect at some point of time.
The truth of this statement is obvious, but the appellants' complaint is not directed at the fact that inheritances occurring prior to the effective date of the act of
1907 have escaped taxation while those happening thereafter are subjected to the exaction. The claim that the
statutes deny equal protection is based upon quite another
sort of discrimination. Succession consequent upon testamentary gifts (that is those made by will, or in contemplation of death or to take effect in possession or-enjoyment after death) made or to take effect after the
date of the act is the subject of the excise. The succession to non-testamentary gifts made subsequent to the
effective date of the act of 1907 is not taxed whether the

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

person coming into ownership and enjoyment of property does so by virtue of the direct gift of the former
owner or by virtue of the exercise or non-exercise of a
power of appointment vested by the former owner in a
third party. Thus the future policy of the Commonwealth is declared to be that those who benefit by a testamentary gift are to be taxed while those who benefit,
either immediately or remotely, from a complete and irrevocable gift inter vivos are not to be taxed. On the
other hand, the statutes declare that one who benefits remotely through the exercise or non-exercise of a power
under an absolute gift long since completed is to bear
the burden of the exaction. This is not the declaration of a new policy effective after the promulgation of
the legislation. On the contrary the statutes declare the
policy to be the exemption for the future of a wellknown type of succession, while at the same time imposing a tax on the identical. type if resulting from a past
gift.
Neither the appellee nor the Supreme Judicial Court
advances any satisfactory reason for this difference in
treatment of persons similarly circumstanced.
The Supreme Judicial Court states:
"The legislative intent possibly was to tax succession
under St. 1907, c. 563, not as from the donee but from the
donor of the power. Whatever the reason, the classification cannot be pronounced arbitrary or unreasonable.
The tax operates equally and uniformly as to all within
this class. It may fairly have been deemed by the General Court to be founded in the 'purposes and policy of
taxation.'"
Instead of assigning any reason for the discrimination
the statement merely points out that two classes are created, those who are taxed and those who are not, and
since all who are taxed are treated alike and all who are
exempt are treated alike the statute is uniform in opera-

BINNEY v. LONG.
280

Opinion of the Court.

tion upon each class; and thus falls short of meeting the
question for decision.
As we have noted, the only basis for the classification
is the time when the estate was created. - This court has
said that a tax on gifts inter vivos, so laid as to hit those
made within a given period prior to the donor's death and
exempting all others, would be wholly arbitrary.
Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, 270 U. S. 230. And we have
also said that a discrimination in the taxation of loans
based solely upon the time when the loan was made
would clearly' be arbitrary and capricious. Colgate v.
Harvey, 296 U. S. 404, 425.
It is said that prior to the passage of the act of 1909,
succession derived through a power granted by an instrument effective before September 1, 1907, escaped taxation although the interest of the beneficiary really had
its origin subsequent to that date; and thereby the Commonwealth unfairly lost taxes which were its due, and
discrimination resulted between beneficiaries under trusts
created before and after September 1, 1907. The argument, however, overlooks the fact that a transfer through
a power created after September 1, 1907, is, notwithstanding the act of 1909, still wholly untaxed where, as
in the case of the trust under consideration, the power is
to be exercised by a third party and the gift is not made
in contemplation of the settlor's death. We fail to see
how fairness, either to the Commonwealth or its citizens,
is promoted by taxing the appellants, the beneficiaries of
a trust made many years before the succession tax laws
were adopted, while exempting beneficiaries similarly situated in all respects save only that the trust was created
after September 1, 1907. The discrimination becomes
the more glaring when it is remembered that the tax is
increased by the aggregation of the interest passing to
the beneficiaries under the 1862 contract with that which
they derive by inheritance from the intestate. Thus, a

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

beneficiary taking through a power under an inter vivos
non-testamentary trust, created after September 1, 1907,
would not have to. aggregate the interest so derived with
property inherited from the donee of the power, whereas
one taking, as do the appellants, under a power in a deed
executed in 1862 is compelled, by aggregation of the interests, to pay at a much higher rate on the property
derived through the power.
In view of the hostile discrimination against a class of
remaindermen arbitrarily singled out for taxation from all
those similarly situated, we are bound to hold the statutes
deny the equal protection of the laws in contravention of
the Fourteenth Amendment.
THE 1891 TRUST.

In their operation upon the trust created in 1891 by the
will of Sarah E. Lawrence, the statutes discriminate between the appellants and others similarly situated. The
discrimination differs in kind from that exhibited in the
case of the 1862 trust, but is equally hostile and arbitrary.
When Mrs. Lawrence died in 1891, the interests created
in her lineal descendants were wholly exempt from taxation. When, in 1907, the Commonwealth adopted a
policy of taxing succession by lineals, the statute said
nothing of powers of appointment. Nevertheless, under
that act, had it been in force when Mrs. Lawrence 'died,
the intestate, her daughter, would have paid a tax upon
the value of the life estate given her by her mother's will,
and the appellants when they came into possession of remainder interests, upon the intestate's death, would likewise have been compelled to pay a tax upon their succession to Mrs. Lawrence's estate. The act of 1909 (§ 2, supra)
recognizing that the act of 1907 (§ 1, supra) does not apply to the succession generated at the death of Mrs.
Lawrence, nevertheless pitches upon the fact that under
her will the intestate had a power of appointment and

BINNEY v. LONG.
280

Opinion of the Court.

makes the takers of ,Mrs. Lawrence's property in succession to the intestate liable for a tax as if the property
had descended from the intestate. As directed by § 1
the appellee aggregated the interest falling to the appellants under their grandmother's will with that coming
to them from their mother under the intestate law. Thus,
the interest derived under the 1891 trust is taxed in the
higher brackets at four per cent. whereas had it been
created by a will effective after September 1, 1907, the
tax would be computed as upon a succession to Mrs. Lawrence's estate alone, and at a rate of one per cent.
The same considerations which have been stated in respect of the 1862 trust are controlling as to this one. We
think it an arbitrary and unreasonable discrimination that
the beneficiary of a power must aggregate the interest so
derived with tha t enjoyed by inheritance of property
owned in fee by the donee of the power, if the instrument
creating the power antedates 1907, but need not so aggregate the interests for the purpose of taxation if the creation of the power be subsequent to 1907. The consequence that the one must pay at a higher rate on the
interest falling in at the death of the donee of the power
than the other who takes by reason of an exactly similar
event, denies the equal protection of the law to the
former.
The argument that the act of 1909 tends to render'
collection of taxes more certain by accelerating the time
of payment and making the executors the collectors of
the tax is answered by the provisions of § 7 of c. 65 of
the General Laws (Ter. ed.). Remaindermen become
liable for the tax, not at the death of the donor, but.
when they come into possession and enjoyment of the
property at the expiration of a le.. estate or term of
years. The tax on their succession is then payable by
any fiduciary who then holds the property, and, if none
is in office, by the beneficiaries themselves. It cannot

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

therefore successfully be contended that the act of 1909
was adopted with a view to earlier or more certain collection of the tax.
The Commonwealth seeks to support the statutes
upon well known principles: that the guaranty of equal
protection does not compel adoption of an iron rule
of equal taxation, preclude variety in taxation, or forbid classification of subjects if the discrimination is
founded upon a reasonable distinction or if any state of
facts reasonably can be conceived to sustain it; and that
where the evident purpose is to deal fairly and equitably
in classifying the subjects of taxation, a statute will not
be condemned-because of minor and incidental hardships
or inequalities due not to a hostile purpose but to inherent difficulties or inadvertence. The claim is that
the discrimination against the appellants is justified by
either or both of these principles. While this court
always accords great weight to the judgment of a state
legislature, we cannot agree that there is here a fair
basis for difference of treatment. All that is said in
defense of the statute is that it treats alike all those who
take under instruments executed prior to an arbitrary
past date, and treats alike all those who take under instruments made subsequently to the same arbitrary date,
and that the legislature may have found some reason for
the discrimination in the state's policy of taxation. But
this is merely to say that arbitrary classification which is
the result of the exercise of the legislative will must be
sustained. The alternative and inconsistent contention
that the discrimination is the result of inadvertence, cannot prevail. The act of 1907 was prospective in its
operation. Knowing that that act did not reach successions under deeds or wills effective prior to September
1, 1907, the legislature adopted the acts of 1909 and 1924
to put those who succeeded to remainder interests created
prior to September 1, .1907, into a taxable class while

BINNEY v. LONG.
280

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

leaving wholly exempt or taxing on a different basis and
at a different rate remaindermen taking under instruments effective subsequent to September 1, 1907. To
suggest that this was an attempt to bring about equality
which failed through inadvertence is to be blind to the
obvious purpose and intent of the legislature. Action
could not have been more deliberate.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOzo, dissenting

in part.

I am unable to concur in so much of the opinion of the
court'as invalidates the tax upon the interests passing to
,the appellants under the deed of 1862 and reduces the
amount of the tax under the will of 1891.
On September 1, 1907, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts laid a tax upon the subject of any transfer to
take effect in possession or enjoyment after the death of
a donor, whether the succession was brought about by will
or intestacy or gift inter vivos. Acts 1907, c. 563. This
court held in Coolidge v. Long, 282 U. S. 582, that as to
remainders already vested, but dependent upon an estate
for life, the tax so imposed is a denial of due process,
though the life estate did not end until after the passage
of the statute. In 1909 the legislature of the Commonwealth enacted another statute providing in substance
that .where the transfer becomes complete through the
exercise or non-exercise of a power of appointment. (cf.
Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U. S.260, 270, 271; Guaranty Trust Co. v. Blodgett, 287 U. S.509, 511) the succession shall be deemed to have been derived from the
donee of the power, if the power had its origin in a disposition of property made before September 1, 1907, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
CARDozo,

J., dissenting.

299 U. S.

if made after that date, from the donor of the power.
Acts 1909, c. 527, § 8: G. L. (Tercentenary Ed.) c. 65, § 2.
Is the result of that amendment an unlawful discrimination when applied to the deed of 1862 and the exercise
or non-exercise of the power there created?
If succession must be treated as derived from the donor,
irrespective of the date when the power was created, many
interests will go free that in fairness should contribute
their quota to the fisc. "Whatever be the technical source
of title of a grantee under a power of appointment, it
cannot be denied that in reality and substance it is the
execution of the power that gives to the grantee the property passing under it." Matter of Dows, 167 N. Y. 227,
231; 60 N. E. 439; aff'd sub nom. Orr v. Gilman, 183
U. S. 278, 287; Matter of Delano, 176 N. Y. 486; 68 N. E.
871; aff'd sub nom. Chanlerv. Kelsey, 205 U. S. 466, 478.
This court has held that a legislature does not violate the
Fourteenth Amendment by giving heed to these realities
when taxing a succession. Orr v. Gilman, supra; Chanler
v. Kelsey, supra. The cases that have been cited had their
origin in New York. For a time the tax laws of Massachusetts were drawn along stricter lines. Emmons v.
Shaw, 171 Mass. 410, 413; 50 N. E. 1033. Until the Act
of 1909, a transfer through a power, if made under an
instrument effective before September, 1907, escaped taxation altogether, though the gift in substance and ,reality
may have had its origin thereafter. Acts 1907, c. 563,
§ 25; cf. Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, supra; also Saltonstall
v. Saltonstall, 256 Mass. 519, 522, 525; 153 N. E. 4. This
was unfair to the Commonwealth. It was perhaps unfair
to legatees who were taxable under gifts of later date.
But the evil, however patent, was not subject to correction through the medium of a uniform rule taxing the
succession under every power of appointment exercised
thereafter, and taxing it as deriyed from the primary
donor. Such a method of assessment would be adequate
in its application to instruments to be executed in the

BINNEY v. LONG.
280

CAfwozo, J., dissenting.

future, but quite inadequate as to instruments executed
in the past. There was need for a distinction based on
difference in time.
One may take for illustration a will made in 1914,
seven years after the Act of 1907, and another made in
1900, seven years before. Each, let it be assumed, provides for a life estate, with power to the life tenant to
appoint the remainder, and with a gift over to children
in default of an appointment. The life tenants die in
1921. If an assessment is made upon the right of succession under the will of later date, there will be no difficulty in collecting the tax, economically and swiftly, out
of the estate of the donor. The power having been
created after 1907, the executors will be under a duty to
retain so much of the estate as may be necessary to pay
the tax in full. But in respect of the 1900 will, the situation is very different. The probability is that before
the adoption of the statute the executors under that instrument will have been given their discharge. In that
event the probate court will no longer have control of the
estate, and the Commonwealth will be left to a precarious
remedy against remaindermen deriving their possession
through the non-exercise of the power, if perchance the
failure to exercise it becomes known at all. Estates of
subsequent donors will thus be made to bear the burden
while those of earlier donors are left substantially immune. The amendment of 1909 corrects that inequality.
Has it substituted another to be condemned as more
offensive?
The rule is elementary that a state in adopting a system of taxation is not confined to a formula of rigid
uniformity. Swiss Oil Co. v. Shanks, 273 U. S. 407, 413.

It may tax some kinds of property at one rate, and others
at another, and exempt others altogether. Bell's Gap
R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232; Stebbins v. Riley,
268 U. S. 137, 142; Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway, 281 U. S.
146, 150. It may lay an excise on the operations of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

299 U. S.

particular kind of business, and exempt some other kind
of business closely akin thereto. Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59, 62; American Sugar Refining Co. v.
Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89, 94; Armour Packing Co. v. Lacy,
200 U. S. 226, 235; Brown-Forman Co. v. Kentucky, 217
U. S. 563, 573; Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S.
245, 255; State Board of Tax Comm'rs,v. Jackson, 283
U. S. 527, 537, 538. What is true of division into classes
according to subject matter must be true of division into
classes dependent upon time. The temporal arrangement must have its origin, to be sure, in something more
than whim or fantasy, a tyrannical exhibition of arbitrary power. If that reproach has been avoided, the
classification does'not fail because the burdens before and
after are not always and everywhere in perfect equilibrium.
From all this it follows that a distinction between wills
or deeds effective before 1907 and those effective afterwards-the exercise or non-exercise of powers under instruments of the first class giving rise to a succession to
be taxed as a bequest from the donee, and the exercise
or non-exercise of powers under instruments of the second
class to be taxed as a bequest from the donor-is not
rooted in caprice. The point of time which separates the
classes is not interjected arbitrarily or by an exertion of
brute force, but corresponds to the behests of a rational
taxonomy. This being so, the division ought not to fail
because the deed of 1862 was framed in such a way that
succession thereunder would not have been taxable to
any one, either the estate of the donor or that of the
donee, if a like deed had been executed after the passage
of the statute. A legislature cannot be expected in drafting legislation to think out every conceivable situation in
which the members of one class will bear a heavier burden
than t1'e members of another. Under the statute challenged as invalid many deeds inter vivos continue to be
taxable irrespective of their date.. Ai interest in re-

BINNEY v. LONG.
280

CARDOzo,

.. dissenting.

mainder to take effect in possession or enjoyment through
the exercise or non-exercise of a power of appointment
after the death of the donor (Guaranty Trust Co. v.
Blodgett, supra) will gain nothing from the fact that a
non-testamentary conveyance brought the power into being. The only reason why this particular interest would
be exempt if the deed of 1862 had been made after August,
1907, is because the remainder was so limited that the
power might be exercised while the donor was yet alive.
Such untoward accidents do not take a method of division
out of the domain of the rational into the land of whim
and fantasy. Eccentricities of incidence are common,
and perhaps inevitable, in every system of taxation. 'The
future would have to be scanned with microscopical
powers of vision to foresee and forestall every possible
diversity. For present purposes it is enough that the
order of events removes the stigma of caprice from a
system of classification whereby donees of a power before
the passage of the act are treated as grantors, the tax to
be laid upon that basis, whereas donors of a power are
recognized as the source of the succession in respect of
transfers afterwards. Emmons v. Shaw, supra. "And
inequalities that result not from hostile discrimination,
but occasionally and incidentally in the application of
a system that is not arbitrary in its classification, are not
sufficient to defeat the law." Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250
U. S. 525, 543. Cf. Metropolis Theatre Co. v. Chicago, 228
U. S. 61. 69, 70; Salomon v. State Tax Comm'n, 278 U. S.
484, 491.
What has been said as to the deed of 1862 and the
power there created applies with equal force to the will
of 1891 and to the quantum of the tax payable by the
legatees thereunder.
For these reasons I dissent from the modification of
the decree and vote to affirm it.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

joins in this opinion.

