MECHANICS CO. v. CULHANE.

51

Syllabus.

MECHANICS UNIVERSAL JOINT CO.

ET

AL.

V.

CULHANE, RECEIVER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SEVENTH

No. 17.

FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued October 14, 15, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

1. One of the objects of the national bank system is to secure, in
the event of insolvency, a just and equal. distribution of the assets
of national banks among unsecured creditors, and to prevent such
banks from creating preferences in contemplation of their failure.
To that end R. S., § 5242, 12 U. S. C. 91, prohibits preferential
payments. P. 55.
2. Revised Statutes, § 5242, provides that payments made by national banks "in contemplation" of the commission of an act of
insolvency, "with a view to the preference of one creditor to
another,.... shall be utterly null and void." Held that the duty
thus imposed, not to defeat by preferential payments the just and
equal distribution of assets, is not confined to the executive officers
but extends to the individual directors of the bank and is covered
by their oath, R. S. 5147. P. 56.
3. The president and manager of a manufacturing company, which
had a deposit in a national bank of which he was a director, having
learned in confidence, as director, that the condition of the bank
was precarious, caused part of his company's deposit to be withdrawn by means of a check, executed by him on its behalf and
passed through the clearing house. The bank at the time was
doing business with its customers as usual, but it closed its doors
on the following business day. Held:
(1) That the payment was a preference in violation of R. S.,
§ 5242, and recoverable from the company by the bank's receiver.
P. 56.
(2) The director also was liable jointly and severally. P. 57.
4. Claim that deposits were made when the bank was insolvent; that
they were obtained fraudulently by impliedly representing, through
keeping the bank open, that it was solvent; and that, hence, the
title to so much of then as came into the hands of the bank's
receiver reinained in the depo.itor and could be followed as trust
funds,-held properly dismissed in the absence of findings or evidence to show that the balk was in fact insolvent, and believed by

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

its officers or directors to be so at the times when the deposits
were made. P. 57.
5. A respondent, in certiorari who did not file a cross-petition, cannot
question the decree of the court below. P. 58.
80 F. (2d) 147, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

298 U. S. 648, to review the affirmance of a

judgment for the receiver of a national bank in an action
to recover a preferential payment, made to a depositor,
one of the present petitioners, in contemplation of the
bank's hisolvency. A director of the bank was made
co-defendant in the action, and joined in the petition for
certiorari.
Mr. Samuel R. Kenworthy for petitioners.
Messrs. RoY F. Hall and George P. Barse, with whom
Mr. John.F. A nderson was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Section 5242 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, 12 U. S. C. , 91 provides that payments inade by
a national bank "in contemplation" of the commission

of an act of insolvency, "with a view to the preference of
one credil or to another" "shall be utterly null and void."
'The Section provides: "All transfers of the ;iotes, bonds, 1Nilk of
exchange, or other evidences of debt owin to any national b:inkilur

association, or of deposits to its credit; aill :;sdgments of ;uorlgages, sureties on real estate, or of judgeni- or decrees in it; f,,vor; all deposits: of money, bullion, or other valuable thing for its
use, or for the use of any of its shareholder, or crelilor'; :a1 a1
payments of money to either, made after the comnis,-ino of :In :at
of insolvency, or in contemlplation thereof, made witi !t view to prevent the application of its assets in the manner pre,-,ribd by this
chapter, or with a view to the preference of one creditor Io another,
except in payment of its circulating notes, shall be utterly mill :iod

void; and no attachment, injunction or execution, shall be issued

MECHANICS CO. v. CULHANE.
51

Opinion of the Court.

This suit was brought in the federal court I for northern
Illinois by thie receiver of the Manufacturers National
Bank and Trust Company of Rockford, in that State, to
recover, as such preference, the proceeds of a check for
$42,761.12 drawn on the bank by the Mechanics Universal
Joint Company of that city and paid to it. The answer
denied that the bank was then insolvent; that it was
known by its officers and directors to be so; that they
contemplated the imminent necessity of its closing; and
that the payment was made with a view to a preference.
On these issues much evidence was introduced. The District Court, making detailed findings of fact, found on all
those issues for the plaintiff, and entered a decree accordingly. The Court of Appeals, accepting the findings made
by the trial court, affirmed the decree. 80 F. (2d) 147.
We granted certiorari, because of the importance of the
question whether the relation of the parties was such as to
render the payment unlawful. We accept the findings, as
there was ample evidence to support them, and none of
tne objections to the admission of evidence is substantial.
Pick Manufacturing Co. v. General Motors Corp., ante,
p. 3.
OilFriday, June 12, the balance iii the Company's account iii the Manufacturers Bank was 865,224.30. On
t'tat day the check for $42,761.12 was drawn, payable to
the T1ird National Bank of Rockford, where it also had a
gcneral checking account, and was sent for deposit in that
account. On Saturday, the 13th, the check was paid
through the cienring house. Never before had the Colnpany transferred money from its checking account in the
,tljsft
,
sab aociation or its pro)erty before final judgment in any
s-uit, action, or procceding, in any State, county, or municipal
4-ourt."
2

;See
28 U_ S. C § 41, (1), (16); Commonwealth Trvst Co. v.
,'?dfo'd, 297 U. S. 613, 617. Compare Bowerman v. Hamnc, 250
U . S. 504.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S

Manufacturers Bank to its general checking account in
the Third National. On June 12 and 13, 1931, the Manufacturers Bank conducted its business as usual. It
accepted deposits; honored all checks, whether presented
through the clearing house or otherwise; and paid all
demands upon it. It had not committed any "act of
insolvency." But it was, in fact, insolvent; and was
known by its officers to be so. On June 13, it closed its
doors at the conclusion of regular banking hours and it
did not thereafter open them. On June 16, the Comptroller of the Currency certified that the bank was insolvent and appointed a receiver.
The check was executed by Ekstrom, the president
and manager of the Company, who then was, and for two
years had been, a director of the Manufacturers Bank.
He knew its precarious condition. He knew that for
some time prior to June 12 the bank had been on the special list of the Comptroller of the Currency for frequent
examination and report. As early as January 8, 1931,
the Comptroller had called the bank's attention to its
unsatisfactory condition. In a letter dated May 28,
1931, he pointed out "its present dangerous situation"
and "potential losses that threaten its solvency." Ekstrom, as director, had examined the reports of the bank's
condition made by the National Bank Examiner; had
read the letters from the Comptroller; and had been
present at an informal meeting of the board, held upon
request of the Examiner, on June 12 between eleven and
twelve o'clock in the morning. The Examiner attended
the meeting; discussed the bank's condition; advised its
officers and the directors that there would be a run on the
Rockford banks on the following Monday; and told them
"that the cash position of the Manufacturers Bank was
so low that it could not stand a run of one business day."
The directors authorized him "to talk over the affairs of
the Manufacturers Bank with a view to having said bank

MECHANICS CO. v. CULHANE.
51

155

Opinion of the Court.

taken over by some other bank in Rockford"; and appointed a committee to that end. Ekstrom participated
in that action. Shortly after leaving the meeting, he
signed the check and caused it to be sent by mail for
collection.
First. The Company contends that, even if Ekstrom's
purpose was to obtain for his Company a preference over
other creditors, the withdrawal of the deposit was not unlawful. The argument is (a) that in drawing the, check,
and thus causing its payment, Ekstrom acted not as director of the bank but as president of the Company; (b)
that he was neither an employee of the bank, nor specifically authorized as a director to make payment of the
check; (c) that this payment was but one with many
others which the bank made on the days involved, in the
ordinary course of business, and not in contemplation of
the commission of an act of insolvency; (d) that the
payment cannot be held to have been made by the bank
in contemplation of insolvency "with a view to prefer
one creditor to another," since this check was paid, like
others, in the usual course, without intention on the part
of the bank's managing officers to prefer the Company;
(e) that the wrongful action, if any, was that of Ekstrom
in using for his Company's benefit knowledge obtained
in confidence as director of the bank; but (f) that such
breach of, duty of a director does not entitle the receiver
to recover, because. the liability. sought to be enforced is
wholly statutory, and the statute does not provide that
payments to a depositor ofn withdrawal made pursuant to
confidential information obtained as bank director shall
be void. The contention is unsound.
One of the objects of the national bank system is to secure, in the event of insolvency, a just and equal distribution of the assets of national banks among unsecured
creditors, and to prevent such banks from creating preferences in contemplation of their failure. Compare Na-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

tional Bank v. Colby, 21 Wall. 609, 613-614; Davis v.
Elmira Savings Bank, 161 U. S. 275, 284, 290. To that
end R. S. § 5242, 12 U. S. C. § 91, prohibits preferential
payments. That prohibition is not directed solely to
managing officers. The duty not so to defeat the just
and equal distribution of the assets commanded by the
Act rests upon all who obtain such knowledge by reason
of their connection with the bank-upon directors and
employees as well as upon the executive officers. By
R. S. § 5147, 12 U. S. C. § 73, each director is required to
take an oath that he "will not knowingly violate or willingly permit to be violated any of the provisions of this
title." Finn v. Brown, 142 U. S. 56, 68. Ekstrom violated his oath and the duty under R. S. § 5242 which it
imposed, when he used knowledge of the bank's perilous
condition, gained, in his position of trust, to cause the
withdrawal of funds by his Company, with a view to assuring it a preference over other depositors who lacked
Ihat knowledge.
We have no occasion to decide whether a stranger
would be liable as for a preference, if, without suggestion
from any officer or employee of the bank, he withdrew
his deposit because of rumor or suspicion of insolvency.
It is true that ordinarily a payment made by a bank to
a depositor in the usual course of business is not recoverable, even though the bank was then clearly insolvent.
Compare McDonald v. Chemical National Bank, 174 U.
S. 610. But the payment here in question was not made
in the usual course of business; and the Company was
not a stranger. Its president and manager was a director
of the bank; as such acquired in confidence knowledge
See ,Niith v. Baldicin, 63 App. D. C. 72; 69 F. (2d) 390; Schillitiy v. Sicroty, S. D. Cal., Cent. Div., August 21, 1934. Comnp're
American Surct!y Co. v. Jackson, 24 F. (2d) 7(8; Isaacs v. Stock, 66
F. (2d) 928; Ricker v. Kokrda, 6S F. (2d) 73, 74; Pearson v. Durcll,
77 F. (2d) 465, 467.

MECHANICS CO. v. CULHANE.
51

Opinion of the Court

of its perilous condition; and, in violation of his statutory
duty as director, used that knowledge for the purpose of
preferring his Company. If the deposit withdrawn had
been in Ekstrom's own name, he would, obviously, have
been obliged to return it. The Company is in no better
position. Compare McCaskill Co. v. United States, 216
U. S. 504; Curtis, Collins & Holbrook Co. v. United
States, 262 U. S. 215. As it is liable under the statute,
we have no occasion to decide whether it would be liable
also on general principles of law or equity. Compare
Yates v. Jones National Bank, 206 U. S. 158, 178; Bowerman v. Hamner, 250 U. S. 504, 510.
Second. Ekstrom was joined with the Company as codefendant and was held liable with it, jointly and severally.. For such personal liability there was ample basis.
Knowing that the bank was in imminent danger of closing, it was Ekstrom's duty as director to conserve the
assets for the benefit of all unsecured creditors-or specifically not to use that knowledge confidentially obtained
to prefer his Company. He depleted the assets by causing the preference to be given; and thus violated the duty
under R. S. § 5242, which he had sworn to perform.
Compare Bowerman v. Hamner, 250 U. S. 504.'
Third. The Company sought by counterclaim to recover
$20,034.12, the balance remaining after deducting from
the aggregate of its deposits between May 6, 1931, and
June 13, 1931 the checks drawn and paid in that period,
including the check for $49,761.12 here in question. The
claim is that when these deposits were made the bank was
insolvent; that the deposits had been obtained fraudulently by impliedly representing (through keeping the
bank open) that it was solvent; and that hence, the title
to so much of them as came into the hands of the receiver
'Ekstrom having died January 12, 1936, his administratrix, Grace
M. Ekstrom, was substituted as appellant.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court

299 U. S.

remained in the Companiy, and could be followed as a
trust fund. The Circuit Court of Appeals stated that it
affirmed the action of the trial court dismissing the counterclaim on the ground that no fraud had been practiced
by the bank on the Company and that "it was not an innocent depositor by reason of the acts of its president."
The receiver gives additional reasons in support of that
action. -We have no ,occasion to enter far into the enquiry. Throughout the litigation the Company has insisted that the bank was still solvent on June 12 when
the check in qiestion was drawn, and on June 13 when it
was paid. As to those dates the findings are to the contrary. But there is no finding that prior to June 12 the
bank was insolvent, or that prior to the discussion at the
informal directors' meeting its executive officers or directors believed it to be so. The evidence is clearly consistent with the conclusion that between May 6 and
June 7 it was believed to be solvent. The counterclaim
was properly dismissed. Compare St. Louis & San Francisco Ry. Co. v. Johnston, 133 U. S. 566, 576; Easton v.
Iowa, 188 U. S. 220, 232.
Fourth. The decree entered was for $25,216.45. That
sum was arrived at by deducting from the $42,761.12
withdrawn, the aggregate amount of the dividends which
would have been paid by the receiver to the Company
thereon if that sum had remained on deposit, adding
interest at 5'per oent to both the debit and the credits.
The receiver contends that the defendants were wrongly
credited with interest on the dividends, because no dividend was payable until full restitution with interest had
been made of the illegal preference; and then only after
proof of the Company's claim. We have no occasion to
consider this alleged error in the decree as the receiver
did not file a cross-petition for certiorari. Compare Federal Trade Comm'n v. Pacific States Paper Thade Assn.,

STATE BOARD v. YOUNG'S MARKET CO.
51

59

Syllabuis.

273 U. S.52, 66; Charles Warner Co. v. Independent Pier
Co., 278 U. S. 85, 91; Lloyd Sabaudo Societa Anonima v.
Elting, 287 U. S.329, 331. Moreover, this claim was not
made below in either court.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consi(leration
or decision of this case.

STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION OF CALIFORNIA ET AL. V. YOUNG'S MARKET CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 22.

Argued October 19, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

1. Under § 2 of the Twenty-first Amendment which provides: "The
transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or
possession of the United States for delivery or use therein of
intoxicating liquors, kn violation of the laws thereof, is hereby
prohibited," a State may exact a license fee for the privilege of
importing beer from other States. P. 61.
2. There is no ground (1) for the proposition that such a tax
violates the commerce clause by discriminating against the wholesaler of imported beer in favor of the wholesaler of beer locally
brewed, both paying the same wholesaler's license tax; or (2) for
the proposition that the right conferred by the amendment to
prohibit importation is conditional upon prohibition of local manufacture and sale. Pp. 61, 62.
3. A California law imposing a fee of $500 per annum for the
privilege. of importing beer, and $750 per annum for the privilege
of manufacturing beer,--held consistent with the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, first, because a classification
recognized by the Twenty-first Amendment cannot be deemed
forbidden by the Fourteenth; and second, because the classification
rests on conditions requiring difference of treatment. P. 64.
12 F. Supp. 140, reversed.

