STATE BOARD v. YOUNG'S MARKET CO.
51

59

Syllabuis.

273 U. S.52, 66; Charles Warner Co. v. Independent Pier
Co., 278 U. S. 85, 91; Lloyd Sabaudo Societa Anonima v.
Elting, 287 U. S.329, 331. Moreover, this claim was not
made below in either court.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consi(leration
or decision of this case.

STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION OF CALIFORNIA ET AL. V. YOUNG'S MARKET CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 22.

Argued October 19, 1936.-Decided November 9, 1936.

1. Under § 2 of the Twenty-first Amendment which provides: "The
transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or
possession of the United States for delivery or use therein of
intoxicating liquors, kn violation of the laws thereof, is hereby
prohibited," a State may exact a license fee for the privilege of
importing beer from other States. P. 61.
2. There is no ground (1) for the proposition that such a tax
violates the commerce clause by discriminating against the wholesaler of imported beer in favor of the wholesaler of beer locally
brewed, both paying the same wholesaler's license tax; or (2) for
the proposition that the right conferred by the amendment to
prohibit importation is conditional upon prohibition of local manufacture and sale. Pp. 61, 62.
3. A California law imposing a fee of $500 per annum for the
privilege. of importing beer, and $750 per annum for the privilege
of manufacturing beer,--held consistent with the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, first, because a classification
recognized by the Twenty-first Amendment cannot be deemed
forbidden by the Fourteenth; and second, because the classification
rests on conditions requiring difference of treatment. P. 64.
12 F. Supp. 140, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

APPEAL from a decree of a three-judge District Court
enjoining officials of the State of California from enforcing
a license fee for the privilege of importing beer.

Mr. Walter L. Bowers, with whom Mr. U. S. Webb,
Attorney General of California, was on the brief, for
appellants.
Messrs. M. J. Donnelly and Frederick H. Wood, with
whom Messrs. C. J. Lynch, Jr., and William M. Dallas
were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JuSTIcE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit, brought in the federal court for southern
California, challenges the validity, under the Twenty-first
Amendment of the Federal Constitution, of the provisions
of a statute of that State,,and of the regulations thereunder, which impose a license-fee of $500 for the privilege
of importing beer to any place within its borders.1 The
license does not confer the privilege of selling.2 Compare
Premier-PabstSales Co. v. Grosscup, 298 U. S. 226.
The plaintiffs are domestic corporations and individual
citizens of California who sue on behalf of themselves and
of others similarly situated. Each is engaged in selling
at wholesale at one or more places of business within the
'The lower courts have differed on this question. See Triner Corporation v. Arundel, 11 F. Supp. 145; Premier-PabstSales Corp. v.
Grosscup, 12 F. Supp. 970; General Sales & Liquor Co. v. Becker,
14 F. Supp. 348; Pacific Fruit & Produce Co. v. Martin, 16 F. Supp.
34. See also the following unreported decisions: Premier-PabstSales
Co. v. McNutt, D. Ind., January 4, 1935; Philip Blum & Co. v.
Henry, E. D. Wis., March 28, 1936.
'Constitution of the State of California, Art. XX, § 22, as amended
November 6, 1934; Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, June 13, 1935,
c. 330, § 2, (k); § 3; § 5, (8), (1.3); § 6, (d), (f); § 7; § 49; §§ 10,
11; § 31; Rules of State Board of Equalization, Rule 9, (n), (e).

STATE BOARD v. YOUNG'S MARKET CO.
59

61

Opinion of the Court.

State beer imported from Missouri or Wisconsin; and has
a wholesaler's license which entitles the holder to sell
there to licensed dealers beer lawfully possessed, whether
it be imported or is of domestic make. For that license
the fee is $50. Each plaintiff has refused to apply for an
importer's license, claiming that the requirement discriminates against wholesalers of imported beer; and that,
hence, the statute violates both the commerce clause and
the equal protection clause. The bill alleges that heavy
penalties are exacted for importing, or having in possession, imported beer without having secured an importer's
license; that unless enjoined defendants will enforce the
statute; that enforcement would subject each of the
plaintiffs to irreparable injury; and that the matter in
controversy exceeds $3000.
The several state officials charged with the duty of enforcing the statute, were joined as defendants, and made
return to an order to show cause. They assert that the
challenged statutory provisions and regulations are valid
because of the Twenty-first Amendment, ratified December 5, 1933, which provides, by § 2:
"The transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or possession of the United States for delivery or
use therein of intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws
thereof, is hereby prohibited."
First. The main contention of the plaintiffs is that the
exaction of the importer's license fee violates the commerce clause by discriminating against the wholesaler of
imported beer. But there is no discrimination against
them qua wholesalers. Everyone holding a wholesaler's
license who is lawfully possessed of any beer, may sell it.
The fee exacted for the privilege of selling, and the conditions under which a sale may be made, are the same
whether the beer to be sold is imported or domestic or is
both. The difference in position charged as a discrimination is not in the terms under which beer may be sold.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Ophiion of the Court.

299 U. S.

It arises from the fact that no one may import beer without securing a license therefor. What the plaintiffs complain of is the refusal to let them import beer without
paying for the privilege of importation. Prior to the
Twenty-first Amendment it would obviously have been
unconstitutional to have imposed any fee for that privilege. The imposition would have been void, not because
it resulted in discrimination, but because the fee would
be a direct burden on interstate commerce; and the commerce clause confers the right to import merchandise
free into any state, except as Congress may otherwise
provide. The exaction of a fee for the privilege of importation would not, before the Twenty-first Amendment, have been permissible even if the State had exact6d
an equal fee for the privilege of transporting domestic
beer from its place of manufacture to the wholesaler's
place of business. Compare Case of the State Freight
Tax, 15 Wall. 232, 274, 277. Thus, the case does not
present a question of discrimination prohibited by the
commerce clause.
The Amendment which "prohibited" the "transportation or importation" of intoxicating liquors into any state
"in violation of the laws thereof," abrogated the right
to import free, so far as concerns intoxicating liquors.
The words used are apt to confer upon the State the
power to forbid all importations which do not comply
with the conditions which it prescribes.' The plaintiffs
ask us to limit this broad command. They request us to
construe the Amendment as saying, in effect: The State
may prohibit the importation of intoxicating liquors
provided it prohibits the manufacture and sale within
its borders; but if it permits such manufacture and sale,
it must let imported liquors compete with the domestic
on equal terms. To say that, would involve not a construction of the Amendment, but a rewriting of it.

STATE BOARD v. YOUNG'S MARKET CO.
59

63

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiffs argue that, despite the Amendment, a
State may not.regulate importations except for the purpose of protecting the public health, safety or morals;
and that the importer's license fee was not imposed to
that end. Surely the State may adopt a lesser degree
of regulation than total prohibition. Can it be doubted
that a State might establish a state monopoly of the
manufacture and sale of beer, and either prohibit all
competing importations, or discourage importation by
laying a heavy impost, or channelize desired importations
by confining them to a single consignee? Compare
Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Vance v. TV. A.
Vandercook Co. (No. 1), 170 U. S. 438, 447.

There is

no basis for holding that it may prohibit, or so limit,
importation only if it establishes monopoly of the liquor
trade. It might permit the manufacture and sale of.
beer, while prohibiting hard liquors absolutely. If it
may permit the domestic manufacture of beer and exclude all made without the State, may it not, instead
of absolute exclusion, subject the foreign article to a
heavy importation fee? Moreover, in the light of history, we cannot say that the exaction'of a high license fee
for importation may not, like the imposition of the high
license fees exacted for the privilege of selling at retail,
serve as an aid in policing the liquor traffic. Compare
Phillips v. Mobile, 208 U. S. 472, 479.

The plaintiffs argue that limitation of the broad language of the Twenty-first Amendment is sanctioned by
its history; and by the decisions of this Court on the
Wilson Act, the Webb-Kenyon Act and the Reed Amendment.8 As we think the language of the Amendment is
'E. g., In re Rahrer, 140 U.S. 545; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58;
Vance v. W. A. Vandercook Co. (No. 1), 170 U. S. 438; Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311; Seaboard
Air Line Ry. v. North Carolina, 245 U. S. 298; McCormick & Co. v.
Brown, 286 U. S. 131,

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

clear, we do not discuss these matters. The plaintiffs
insist that to sustain the exaction of the importer's
license-fee would involve a declaration that the Amendment has, in respect to liquor, freed the States from all
restrictions upon the police power to be found in other
provisions of the Constitution. The question for decision requires no such generalization.
Second. The claim that the statutory provisions and
the regulations are void under the equal protection clause
may be briefly disposed of. A classification recognized
by the Twenty-first Amendment cannot be deemed forbidden by the Fourteenth. Moreover, the classification
in taxation made by California rests on conditions requiring difference in treatment. Beer sold within the
State comes from two sources. The brewer of the domestic article may be required to pay a license-fee for
the privilege of manufacturing it; and under the California statute is obliged to pay $750 a year. Compare
Brown-Forman Co. v. Kentucky, 217 U. S. 563. The
brewer of the foreign article cannot be so taxed; only
the importer can be reached. He is subjected to a
license-fee of $500. Compare Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S.
730, 732.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE Bt}TLER

MR.

JUSTICE STONE

or decision of this case.

concurs in the result.
took no part in the consideration

