OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

sota, supra,and later cases upon that point. See Vheeling
Steel Corp. v. Fox, supra.
We think that the dominant attribute of relator's membership in, the New York Stock Exchange so links it to the
situs of the Exchange as to localize it at that place and
hence to bring it within the taxing power of New York.
Accordingly we hold that in laying the tax upon the profits
derived by the relator from the sale of the right appurtenant to his membership the State did not exceed the
bounds of its jurisdiction. The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
EMPLOYERS REINSURANCE CORP. v. BRYANT,
U. S. DISTRICT JUDGE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 155.

FOR THE

Argued November 20, 1936.-Decided January 4, 1937.

1. Obtaining removal of a case from a state tO a federal court does
not operate as a general appearance by the defendant. P. 376.
2. Where a suit in the District Court is in personam and not within
any exceptional provision extending the reach of its process, service
on the defendant, to be effective, must be made within the district.
P. 377.
3. An order of the District Court remanding a cause to a state court
is not reviewable by mandamus. P. 378.
4. That part of the Judiciary Act of 1875, § 5, now in § 80, Title 28,
U. S. Code, which provides that if a District Court shall be satisfied at any time during the pendency of any suit brought therein
or removed thereto from a state court that the suit does not really
or substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within
its jurisdiction, the court shall proceed no further therein but
shall "dismiss the suit or remand it to the court from which it was
removed, as justice may require," and that part of the Judiciary
Act of March 3, 1887, § 6, now part of § 71, Title 28, U. S. Code,

EMPLOYERS CORP. v. BRYANT.
374

Opinion of the Court.

which provides that an order remanding a cause to a state court
shall be "immediately carried into execution" and no appeal or
writ of error from the order shall be allowed, are in pari materia
and, construed together, are intended to reach and include all cases
removed from a state court into a federal court and remanded by
the latter. P. 378.
5. Where in an ordinary action for money in personam, removed
from a state court, the defendant cannot be served within the
district and will not voluntarily appear, the court is without federal jurisdiction to proceed with the cause, and, under the provisions above mentioned, should either dismiss it or remand it to
the state court "as justice may require." P. 381.
6. Whether justice will be better served by remand or by dismissal
is determined by exercise of judicial discretion. P. 382.
7. In a removed cause, if the federal court cannot proceed because
service cannot be made upon the defendant within tht district,
and the state court upon a remand could obtain personal jurisdiction because of the wider reach of its process, and if dismissal by
the federal court would deprive the plaintiff of all remedy because
the time allowed for filing a new suit in the state court has expired,
discretion is wisely exercised to remand rather than dismiss the
case. P. 387.
82 F. (2d) 373, affirmed.

CERTIORARI* to review a judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals denying a petition for writs of mandamus and
prohibition directed to the judges of a district court for
the purpose of vacating an order of remand.
Mr. Jacques P. Adoue, with whom Mr. John D. Watkins was on the brief, for petitioner.
No appearance for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This case involves an effort to obtain by mandamus and

prohibition a reexamination and vacation of an order of a
federal district court remanding to a state court a suit

theretofore removed into the former from the latter.
*See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

A citizen of Texas sued a corporate citizen of Missouri
in a state court of Gregg County, Texas, to recover a sum
in excess of three thousand dollars, exclusive of interest
and costs, upon a policy of workmen's compensation insurance, and caused process to be issued out of that court
and served upon an alleged agent of the defendant.
Without otherwise appearing in the state court, the defendant in due time and mode caused the suit to be removed, by reason of the diverse citizenship of the parties,
into the federal court for the eastern district of Texas,
which includes Gregg County.
After the removal the defendant, appearing specially,
showed that the alleged agent upon whom process had
been served prior to the removal was not in fact its agent,
and the federal court set aside the service. At the plaintiff's instance further process was issued out of that court
and served upon an agent of the defendant within the
western-not eastern---district of Texas. Again appearing specially, the defendant challenged this service because made outside the court's territorial jurisdiction, and
the service was set aside.
Obtaining the removal from the state court into the
federal court did not operate as a general appearance by
the defendant,1 and, as the service of process against it
proved invalid and it declined to appear voluntarily, the
federal court plainly was without personal jurisdiction of
the defendant, although in other respects having jurisdiction of the suit.
The defendant had been admitted to do, and was doing,
business in Texas, had an agent within the western district upon whom process could be served in that district,
but had no agent Within the eastern district where the
suit was pending.
'Wabash Western Ry. Co. v. Brow, 164 U. S. 271; Mechanical
Appliance Co. v. Castleman, 215 U. S. 437; Cain v. Commercial
Publishing'Co.,232 U. S. 124; General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore
& M. S. Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 261.

EMPLOYERS CORP. v. BRYANT.
374

Opinion of the Court.

The suit was in personarn and not within, any exceptional provision empowering the federal court to send its
process outside its district. Therefore that court's process could be effectively served only within the district.2
But the state court was not subject to such a limitation
and could send its process to any part of the State.
In these circumstances the plaintiff moved that the
suit be remanded to the state court because the federal
court was without, and unable to obtain, personal jurisdiction of the defendant; and in support of the motion
the plaintiff asserted that the defendant had not been effectively served with process, had not voluntarily
appeared and had no agent within the district upon
whom process could be served. Coming to act upon this
motion, the federal court construed § 80, Title 28, U. S.
Code, as authorizing it either to dismiss the suit or to
remand the same to the state court, as justice might
require; concluded that justice required a remanding
order because "an order of dismissal would prevent the
plaintiff from refiling [beginning anew] his suit within
the time permitted by the statutes of Texas and would
amount to a complete denial of his right to litigate his
claim"; and accordingly entered an order remanding the
suit to the state court.
The defendant, conceiving that the remanding order
was -wrongly made, petitioned the circuit court of appeals
for writs of mandamus and prohibition commanding the
judge of the district court to vacate that order and prohibiting him from giving any effect to it. The court of
appeals entertained the petition, ordered the judge to
show cause why the requested writs should not issue, received and considered his return disclosing the proceedings and matters already recited, and denied the petition.
82 F. (2d) 373. The case is here on certiorari.
Toland v. Sprague, 12 Pet. 300, 328-330; Insurance Co. v. Bangs,
103 U. S. 435, 439-440; Munter v. Weil Corset C-o., 261 U. S. 276,
279; Robertson v. Labor Board, 268 U. S. 619, 622-623.

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

We are of opinion the petition was rightly denied, first,
because the remanding order was not subject to appellate
reexamination on petition for mandamus or otherwise,
and, secondly, because even if open to reexamination on
petition for mandamus, the order was made in the exercise of lawful authority and was appropriate to the situation in which it was made.
1. For a long period an order of a federal court remanding a cause to the state court whence it had been removed
could not be reexamined on writ of error or appeal, because not a final judgment or decree in the sense of the
controlling statute.' But in occasional instances such an
order was reexamined in effect on petition for mandamus,
and this on the theory that the order, if erroneous,
amounted to a wrongful refusal to proceed with the cause
and that in the absence of other adequate remedy mandamus was appropriate to compel the inferior court to
exercise its authority.'
By the Act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 472, dealing with the jurisdiction of the circuit (now district)
courts, Congress provided, in § 5, that ifA circuit court
should be satisfied at any time during the.pendency of a
suit brought therein, or removed thereto from a state
court, that "such suit does not really or substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within" its "jurisdiction," the court should proceed no further therein, but
should "dismiss the suit or remand it to the court from
which it was removed, as justice may require." ' Thus
far this section did little more than to make mandatory a
practice theretofore largely followed, but sometimes neg'Railroad Co. v. Wiswall, 23 Wall. 507.
R'ailroad Co. v. Wiswall, supra.
'This provision is still in force as part of § 80, Title 28, U. S.
Code.

EMPLOYERS CORP. v. BRYANT.
374

379

Opinion of the Court.

lected, in the circuit courts.' But the section also contained a concluding paragraph, wholly new, providing
that the order "dismissing or remanding the said cause
to the state court" should be reviewable on writ of error
or appeal. This provision for an appellate review continued'in force until it was expressly repealed by the Act
of March 3, 1887, c. 373, § 6, 24 Stat. 552,' which also
provided that an order remanding a cause to a state court
should be "immediately carried into execution" and "no
appeal or writ of error" from the order should be allowed.'
The question soon arose whether the provisions just
noticed in the Act of March 3, 1887, should be taken
broadly as excluding remanding orders from all appellate
review, regardless of how invoked, or only as forbiddiAg
their review on writ of error or appeal. The question was
considered and answered by this Court in several cases,
the uniform ruling being that the provisions should be
construed and applied broadly as prohibiting appellate reexamination of such an order, where made by a circuit
(now district) court, regardless of- the mode in which the
reexamination is sought.9 A leading case on the subject
Dillon Removal of Causes, 3d ed., § 82; Conkling's Treatise, 5th
ed., p. 170; Pollard v. Dwight, 4 Cranch 421, 428-429.
'The Act of March 3, 1887, was corrected in particulars not here
material, and as cor'rected was reenacted, by the Act of August 13,
1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433.
a This provision is still in force as part of § 71, Title 28, U. S.
Code.

The cases are collected and their effect is stated in Gay v. Ruff,
292 U. S. 25, 28-29. It was there also pointed out and definitely
held that, under the general statute controlling review on certiorari
by the Supreme Court, it is admissible for that court to review a
decision of a circuit couk, of appeals directing a district court to
remand a cause to a statq court. p. 30. Therefore the general rule
as stated above is limited to remanding orders made by the district
(formerly circuit) courts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

is In re PennsylvaniaCo., 137 U. S. 451, which dealt with
a petition for mandamus requiring the judges of a circuit
court to reinstate, try and adjudicate a suit which they,
in the circuit court, had remanded to the state court
whence it had been removed. After referring to the earlier
statutes and practice and coming to the Act of March 3,
1887, this Court said (p. 454):
"In terms, it only abolishes appeals and writs of error,
it is true, and does not mention writs of mandamus; and
it is unquestionably a general rule, that the abrogation of
one remedy does not affect another. But in this case, we
think it was the intention of Congress to make the judgment of the Circuit Court remanding a cause to the state
court final and conclusive. The general object of the act
is to contract the jurisdiction of the federal courts. The
abrogation of the writ of error and appeal would have had
little effect in putting an end to the question of removal,
if the writ of mandamus could still have been sued out in
.this court. It is true that the general supervisory power
of this court over inferior jurisdictions is of great moment in a public point of view, and should not, upon light
grounds, be deemed to be taken away in any case. Still,
although the writ of mandamus is not mentioned in the
section, yet the use of the words 'such remand shall be immediately carried into execution,' in addition to the prohibition of appeal and writ of error, is strongly indicative
of an intent to suppress further prolongation of the controversy by whatever process. We are, therefore, of opinion that the act has the effect of taking away the remedy
by mandamus as well as that of appeal and writ of error."
The provisions in the Act of 1887 on which that decision and others to the same effect were based are still
in force as parts of §§ 71 and 80, Title 28, U. S. Code.
They are in part materia, are to be construed accordingly
rather than as distinct enactments, and, when so construed, show, as was held in Morey v. Lockhart, 123 U. S.

EMPLOYERS CORP. v. BRYANT.
374

Opinion of the Court.

56, 58, that they are intended to reach and include all
eases removed from a state court into a federal court and
remanded by the latter.
It follows that the remanding order of the district court
was not subject to rekxamination by the circuit court of
appeals on the petition for mandamus.
2. It is conceded, and rightly so, that the district court
was without personal jurisdiction of the defendant, and
that in the absence of such jurisdiction the court was
without power to proceed to an adjudication. The statute, § 80, supra, requires that a district court, when satisfied that a suit removed into it from a state court does
not really and substantially involve a dispute 6r controversy "properly" within its jurisdiction, shall dismiss the
suit or remand it to the state court, as justice may require. In this instance the dispute or controversy was
not properly within the jurisdiction of the district court
unless (1) the parties were citizens of different States;
(2) the value or amount involved exceeded $3,000, exclusive of interest and costs; and (3) the defendant was
before the court by reason of a general appearance or a
valid service of process."0 Each of these elements of jurisdiction was essential, and if any was wanting there was
an absence of proper jurisdiction. The defendant was
not before the court, and therefore it was without jurisdiction to proceed with the suit. Counsel for the petitioner assume that the presence of the defendant was-not
1In Illinois Central R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 28, 34, and again
in Venner v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 209 U. S. 24, 34, this Court
defined the federal jurisdiction of the circuit court as follows:
"Jurisdiction is the right to put the wheels of justice in motion and
to proceed to the final determination of a cause upon the pleadings
and evidence. It exists in the Circuit Courts of the United States
under the express terms of the act of August 13, 1888, if the plain-

tiff be a citizen of one State, the defendant a citizen of another, if
the amount in controversy exceed $2000 [afterwards changed to
$3000] and the defendant be properly served with process within
the district."

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

an element of the'court's jurisdiction as a federal court;
but the assumption is a mistaken one. By repeated
decisions in this Court it has been adjudged that the presence of the defendant in a suit in personam, such as the
one now under discussion, is an essential element of the
jurisdiction of a district (formerly circuit) court as a
federal court, 1 and that in the absence of this element
the court'is powerless to proceed to an adjudication.
In the circumstances already recited the district court
was required to dismiss the suit for want of jurisdiction
or to remand it to the state court from which it had been
removed, and in selecting between these alternatives the
court was required to act "as justice may require." The
statute assumes that justice will be better served in some
instances by a dismissal and in others by a remand.
Making the required selection involves discretion-judicial discretion, not mere choice. Plainly the circumstances in which the court acted pointed to a remand as
being, in justice, the more appropriate of the alternatives. 2
It follows that, even if a remanding order were open to
reexamination on a petition for mandamus, the petition
was in this instance rightly denied.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
Shepard v. Adams, 168 U. S. 618; Remington v. Central Pacific
R. Co., 198 U. S. 95; Board of Trade v. Hammond Elevator Co.,
198 U. S. 424; Kendall v. American Automatic Loom Co., 198 U. S.
477; Mechanical Appliance Co. v. Castleman, 215 U. S. 437; Merriam Co. v. Saalfield, 241 U. S. 22; Stewart v. Ramsay, 242 U. S.
128.
"Pollard v. Dwight, 4 Cranch 421, 428-429; Texas Transportation
Co. v. Seeligson, 122 U. S. 519, 522; Cates v. Allen, 149 U. S. 451,
460-461; Pond v. Sibley, 7 Fed. 129, 138; Gombert v, Lyon, 80 Fed.
305;,Peters v. Equitable Life Assurance Society, 149 Fed. 290, 294.

