152

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

299 U. S.

VILLA ET AL. V. VAN SCHAICK, SUPERINTENDENT OF INSURANCE OF NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 54. Argued October 23, 1936.-Decided December 7, 1936.
Upon review of the judgment of a state court, when the record before this Court does not adequately show the facts underlying the
state court's decision of a federal question, this Court may set
aside the judgment and remand the ca o, to the end that those
facts may be presented either through amendment of the record or
by further proof as the state court may be advised. P. 155.

The case involved the question whether, in the liquidation in
New York of a New York surety company, which in the course of
its business had acted as insurance carrier for employees in relation
to claims under the workmen's compensation laws of New York
and other States, New York claims could, consistently with the
Federal Constitution, be preferred, as directed by the New York
law, over awards made in Minnesota. The record did not clearly
reveal whether the court below had determined that, upon a segregation, there would be sufficient assets derived from the business
done within New York to pay the preferred claims, or whether
that preference was to be satisfied out of assets resulting from
operations in other States. Nor did it appear whether as ets derived from business in Minnesota would be sufficient to discharge
the Minnesota claims.
266 N. Y. 589; judgment vacated.

APPEAL from a judgment which affirmed an order of the
Supreme Court of New York for the distribution of assets
in a liquidation proceeding. See also 296 U. S. 544.
Mr. Hartwell Cabell, with whom Mr. Asa B. Kellogg
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Walter B. Herendeen, with whom Messrs. Louis t.

Pink and Benjamin Potoker were on the brief, for
appellee.

VILLA v. VAN SCHAICK.
152

Opinion of the Court.

By leave of Court, Mr. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney
General of New York, Mr. Henry Epstein, Solicitor General, and Messrs. Joseph A. McLaughlin and Paul Balsam,
Assistant Attorneys General, filed a brief on behalf of
the Industrial Commissioner of New York, as amicus
curiae, in support of the constitutionality of the Act
involved.
PER CURIAM.

The Southern Surety Company, an insurance company
organized under the laws of New York and doing business
there and in other States, is being liquidated by the state
superintendent of insurance. In the course of its business, the Company acted as an insurance carrier for employers in relation to claims under the compensation
laws of New York and other States. Upon his first report, the liquidator sought the direction of the state court
to pay in full, as preferred under § 34 of -the Workmen's
Compensation Law of New York, all compensation claimants who had filed preferred claims under the New York
Law and whose claims the liquidator had allowed.
Appellants are holders of awards of compensation
against the Company under the laws of Minnesota. They
appeared in the procepdings for liquidation and objected
to the preference of the New York claimants. The Supreme Court of the State sustained the preference and
ordered distribution accordingly. The Court of Appeals
affirmed the order. 266 N. Y. 589; 195 N. E. 213. Appeal to this Court was dismissed. 296 U. S. 544. The
Court of Appeals amended its remittitur so as to recite
that a federal question was presented and necessarily
passed upon, in that the court held that § 34 of the Workmen's Compensation Law of New York was not repugnant to § 2 of Article IV and § 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Consttution of the United States.
The Court of Appeals thereupon vacated the judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

299 U. S.

previously entered and directed the entry of a new judgment which, after a further amendment of the remittitur, was entered on April 1, 1936, and from which this
appeal was taken within the time allowed by law.
It appears from the record that the business had its
origin with the Southern Surety Company of Oklahoma
which was incorporated in that State in 1907; that the
Oklahoma company took over the business of other companies in Missouri, Michigan, Indiana and New Mexico;
that in 1918 the Southern Surety Company of Iowa was
organized and took over the business of the Oklahoma
company; that in 1928 the Southern Surety Company of
New York was incorporated, assuming the liabilities and
receiving most of the assets of the Iowa company; that
the business of the New York company grew rapidly but
that in March, 1932, it was found to be insolvent and the
liquidator took charge.
The Court of Appeals stated in its order that "In this
case the New York assets are concededly more than sufficient for the payment of the preferences allowed. (See
Clark v. Williard, 294 U. S. 211.) We pass on no other
situation." The record discloses that when the liquidator
took possession of the assets in March, 1932, the aggregate "was sufficient to pay the New York compensation
claims in full without resorting to any assets received by
the liquidator thereafter from sources outside the State
of New York," but that the assets so taken over" had
been derived from the general conduct of the insurance
business during the preceding years throughout the
United States."
Appellants contend that "the New York assets" to
which the Court of Appeals referred were the commingled
assets owned by the Company at the time the liquidator
took possession and derived from the operations of the
company throughout the country, and not simply assets
which had been derived from the business of the Company in the State of New York. The liquidator appar-

VILLA v. VAN SCIIAICK.
152

Opinion of the Court.

ently contends that while the preference does not apply
to assets from other States brought to New York after

the liquidation proceeding was. instituted, it does apply
to all the assets, however derived, which were inthe State
of New York at the time of the liquidation order, aside
from the statutory deposit held in trust- for the policyholders under § 71 of the state insurance law.

The condensed statement in the record leaves doubt
as to the determination of the state court upon points
bearing upon the federal question which that court has
decided in upholding the preference. It does not clearly
appear whether the court has Qletermined that upon a
segregation of assets there woula be sufficient assets derived from the business done within the State of New
York to pay the preferred claims, or whether that preference is to be satisfied out of assets resulting from operations in other States. Nor does- it appear whether assets
derived from business in Minnesota will be sufficient to
discharge appellants' claims.
We express no opinion as to the merits of the federal
question and we think that. the facts should be more
fully elucidated before that question is decided here.
We have frequently said that in the exercise of our appellate jurisdiction we have power not only to correct
errors in the judgment under review but to make such
disposition of the case as justice requires. In determining what justice does require, we have considered
changes, either in fact or law, supervening since the
judgment was entered; and in such cases we have set
aside the judgment and remanded the cause so that the
state court might be free to act. We think that the
fundamental principle involved, in such action applies
as well to cases where the record before us doeg not adequately show the facts underlying the decision of the state
court of the federal question, and opportunity should be
given for their appropriate presentation either through
amendment of the record or by further proof as the state

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

299 U. S.

court may be advised. See Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Dennis, 224 U. S. 503, 506-509; Watts, Watts & Co. v.
Unione Austriaca, 248 U. S. 9, 21; Dorchy v. Kansas,
264 U. S. 286, 289; Missouri ex rel. Wabash Ry. Co. v.
Public Service Comm'n, 273 U. S. 126, 131; Patterson
v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 600, 607. To afford this opportunity we vacate the judgment and remand the cause for
further proceedings.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.

PRAIRIE FARMER PUBLISHING CO.

ET AL.

V.

INDIANA FARMER'S GUIDE PUBLISHING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 104. Argued November 18, 1936.-Decided December 7, 1936.
Upon the former hearing of this case, 293 U. S. 268, this Court, while
deciding that a restraint or monopoly of a business may violate
the Sherman Anti-Trust Act although confined to that part of
it which is carried on in a particular section of the country, intimated no opinioh as to whether the evidence in the case, upon the
issues of restraint or monopoly and of injury to petitioner, was
sufficient to go to the jury. P. 158.
82 F. (2d)' 704, reversed.
CERTIORARI* to review the affirmance of a judgment for
the plaintiff (respondent here) in an action for triple
damages under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act.

Mr. Maxwell v. Beghtol, with whom Messrs. Burke G.
Slaymaker, Thomas E. Murphy, and J. L. Parrish, Jr.,
were on the brief, f r petitioners.
Messrs. U. S. Lesh and Eben Lesh for respondent.
*See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

