300

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

KROGER GROCERY & BAKING CO. v. LUTZ,

ATTORNEY GENERAL OF INDIANA,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 501.

Argued December 7, 1936.-Decided December 21, 1936.

In a suit to enjoin regulation of a business which does not prevent
carrying it on, the amount or value in controversy is not the value
or net worth of the business, but the value of the right to be
free of the regulation, measurable by the loss, if any, that would
follow the enforcement of the regulation. P. 301.
Capitalization of earnings held not suitable as a basis of determining the loss attributable to temporary regulation of a business, it not appearing that the loss would exceed that which would
be sustained in a short time to elapse before the regulatory
statute and the order made upon it were to expire by limitation.
Affirmed.

Mr. Robert S. Marx, with whom Messrs. Frank E.
Wood and Harry Kasfir were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Philip Lutz, Jr., Attorney General of Indiana, Mr.
Joseph W. Hutchinson, Assistant Attorney General, and
Mr. Urban C. Stover, First Deputy Attorney General,
were on the brief for appellees.
PER CURIAM.

Complainant brought this suit to restrain the enforcement of an order of the Milk Cbntrol Board of the State of
Indiana, inad June 12, 1936, fixing selling prices of milk
in the Fort Wayne Marketing Area. Upon the hearing
by three judges (28 U. S. C. 380) of a motion for a preliminary injdInction, the District Court dismissed the
cause for the want of jurisdiction upon the ground that
the requisite jurisdictional amount was rnot involved. The
court made the following findings:
"2. That complainant owns and operates a chain of
grocery stores in and out -f Indiana, forty-four (44) of

KROGER GROCERY CO. v. LUTZ.
300

Opinion of the Court.

which are located in the City of Fort Wayne, and within
a radius of seven (7) Miles thereof, and has invested
in said stores in said Fort Wayne marketing area approximately Four Hundred Fifty Thousand ($450,000.00) Dollars, making an [sic] annual sales of approximately Two
Million ($2,000,000.00) Dollars, of which said saleb milk
and dairy products amount to approximately Forty-five
thousand -($45,000.00) Dollars. That the number of
quarts of milk sold by said stores in one year period are
less than 550,000 in said area, in that complainant's
profits per quart on its milk sold are .00398. That complainant's total loss in profits for a one-year period on a
complete loss of its milk business would be Two Thousand Eighty-nine ($2089.00) Dollars, on the basis of 550,000 quarts. That if complainant be required by Official
Order No. 14 of the Milk Control Board of Indiana to sell
its milk at a level price with other dairies and distributors
in said territory, its loss in the sales of milk would not
exceed twenty-five percent, and its loss in profits would
not exceed Five Hundred ($500.00) Dollars.
"3. That on March 12th, 1935 Chapter 281 of the acts
of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, commonly known as the Milk Control Law, became effective,
and that said Act expires by limitation on July 1st, 1937."
In granting a temporary stay pending appeal to this
Court, the District Court found that the enforcement of
the order would "cause immediate and irreparable injury
to the business of the complainant."
In determining whether the requisite jurisdictional
amount is in controversy, where it does not appear that
the complainant is deprived of its license or is prevented
by the regulation from prosecuting its business, the question is not the value or net worth of the business but the
value of the right to be free froP the regulation, and this
may be measured by the loss, if any, that would follow
the enforcement of the rule prescribed. McNutt v. General Motors Acceptance Corp., 298 U. S. 178.

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

299 U. S.

In order to support its contention, complainant seeks
to capitalize its earnings and thus to arrive at the value
of the part of the business affected by the order. But that
basis of ascertaining a capital loss is not available to
complainant here, as the statute, and with it the order,
expire by limitation on July 1, 1937. The hurt by reason
of the regulation does not appear to be greater than the
loss sustained while the statute is in operation. The
decree of the District Court is

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

KAMMERER ET AL. v. KROEGER, SUPERINTENDENT OF BUILDING AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS

OF OHIO,

ET AL.*

.APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 522.

Motion to dismiss distributed November 28, 1936.Decided December 21, 1936.

The question whethir the Court of Common Pleas, of Ohio, in a
proceeding to liquidate a building and loan association, had jurisdiction under the laws of that State, to entertain applications by
shareholders for ieimbursement out of the assets of the association
for counsel fees and expenses incurred by them in litigation which
they had successfully conducted for the protection of the assets
in behalf of themselves and the other shareholders,-held a question
of state practice and remedy not involving any right under the
Federal Constitution.
Appeals from 131 Ohio St. 330; 2 N. E. (2d) 823, dismissed.
* Together with No. 523, Wuist et al. v. Kroeger et al.; No. 524,

Fischer et al. v. Kroeger et al.; No. 525, Cotterill et al. v. Kroeger
et al.; No. 526, Kelsey et al. v. Kroeger et al.; No. 527, Kimmel
et al. v. Kroeger et al.; and No. 528, Reichert et al. v. Kroeger et al.
Appeals from the Supreme Court of Ohio.

