SU''EME COURT.
Knighd et al. v. Schell.

tion.

Marriott v. Brune et al., 9 How., 619; Lawrence v. Caswell, 13 .How., 438. For these reasons we are of the -opinion
that there is no error in the record, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with costs.

JAMES KNIGHT, JAMES H. WEST, AND ROBERT SARGEANT, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. AUGUSTUS SCHELL.
When barrels are manufactured in the United Sta'es and shipped empty to
Cuba, there filled with molasses, and brought back to the United States, the
duty must be levied upon the value ort the barrels, as well as upon the molasses. This conclusion rests upon the following reasons: Molasses barrels,
under such circumstances, have been applied to the commercial use for which
they were manuihctured, and on their re-importation here, even if fit for a
second voyage, seldom or never have the same value as when new. When
filled in the foreign market, re-imported here, and offered at the custom-house
for entry, they have then acquired a new c]haracter within the meaning of the
revenue laivs. Wilh their contents they are then denominated packages, from
which one in ten must be selected and ordered to the public stores for appraisement, and as such constitute a part of the charges of importation.
The acts of Congress, and the uniform interpretation placed on them by the
Treasury Department, require this to be done.

THIS case came up on a certificate of division in opinion
between the. judges of the Circuit Court for the southern district of New York.
The question was, whether barrels manufactured in the
United States and exported empty to Cuba, and afterwards
brought back to the United States filled with molasses purchased in Cuba, were brought back "in the same condition as
when exported," according to the true intent and meaning of
the acts of Congress in that behalf.
On which question the opinions of the judges were opposed.
Wherefore, on motion of the plaintiffs' counsel, at the same
term, it is ordered that the point on which the disagreement
bath happened-be stated, under the direction of the judges.
and certified under the seal of this court to the Supreme Court
,to be finally decided, and that the foregoing state of the plead-

-DECEMBE1

TERM, 1860.

, 527

Knight et al. v. SchelU.

ings, and the following statement of facts, which is made undei
the direction of the judges, be certified according to-the request of the defendant, by his counsel, and the law in that case
made. and provided.
It was proved on the trial that the plaintiffs, in the year
1859, imported fi'm Matanzas 728 barrels of molasses by the
.brig Irene; 301 barrels of molasses by.a vessel called the Yumuri; and 120 barrels of molasses by.a vessel called the Trovatore; that the- barrels containing the molasses were manufactured by the plaintiffs at Newburg, in the State of New
York, and shipped from the port of New York empty to Matanzas, where they were filled with molasses, and returned in
the three vessels above narthed to the port of New York; that
said barrels were made up and completed in every respect
before they were shipped to Cuba. They were retuined, most
of -them, in the same vessels that -carried them out from New
York, and all of them in the same condition in which they
were shipped or carried out from New- York, except being
filled with molasses.
They were filled with molasses at Cuba. When these barrels were brought back from Cuba filled with molasses, in the
vessels alove referred to; the collector claimed that the barrels
themselves were dutiable, and that they were not entitled toentry duty free. He claimed a duty.upon them at the rate of
24 per centum of their value, at Cuba, and refused to allow
them to be entered unless such duty was paid; that the plain-

tiffs paid to the defendant that.portion of the said duties which
was upon the separate value of said barrels under protest,
claiming that said barrels were not legally subject to the pat.
ment of any duty, but were exempt from duty by virtue of the
provisions of the 47th section of the act of Congress of March
2, 1799, and of Schedule I of the existing tariff.
The plaintiffs thereupon, having complied in all respects with
the provisions of sectibn fifth of the act of March 3, 1857, entitled "An act reducing the duties on imports, and for other
purposes," brought this action to recover back the sum so paid
under protest, as duties upon said separate value of said bar-

SUPREME COURT.
Knight et al. v. Schell.

rels, within the time prescribed in said act for bringing the
same.
It was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Williams for
the plaintiffs, and Mr. Black (Attorney General) for the de.fendant.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the court on a certificate of division
of opinion from the Circuit Court of the United States far the
southern district of NTew York. It was aii action of assumpsit,
brought by the present plaintiffs against the defendant, as the
collector of the port of New York, to recover back certain
duties paid by the plaintiffs under protest, upon certain barrels, in which molasses was imported into the United States
from Matanzas.
It was proved, on the trial, that the plaintiffs, in the year
1859, imported from Matauzas 728 barrels of molasses by the
brig Irene, 301 barrels of molasses by a vessel called the
Yumuri, and 120 barrels of molasses by a vessel called the
Trovatore; that the barrels containing the molasses were manufactured by the plaintiffs at Newburg, in the State of New
York, and shipped from the port of New York empty to
Matanzas, where they were filled with molasses, and returned
.inthe three vessels above named to the port of New York;
that the barrels were made up, and completed in every respect
before they were shipped to Cuba. They were returned, most
of them, in the same vessels that carried them out from New
York, and all of them in the same condition in which they
were shipped or carried out from New York, except being
filled with molasses.
They were filled with molasses at Cuba. When the barrels
were brought back from Cuba 'filled with molasses, in the
vessels above referred to, the collector claimed that the barrels
themselves were dutiable, and that they were' not entitled to
entry duty free." He claimed a duty upon them at the rate of
24 per centum of their value at Cuba, and refused to allow
th-em to be entered, unless such -duty was paid; that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

529

Knighzt et aL v. Scez.

plaintiffs paid to the defendant that portion of the duties
which was upon the separate value of the barrels under protest, claiming that the barrels were not legally subject to the
'payment of any duty, but were exempt from duty by virtue
of the provisions of the 47th section of the act of Congress of
March 2, 1799, and of Schedule I of the existing tariff.
. The plaintiffs thereupon, having complied in all respects
with the provisions of section fifth of the act of March 3,
1857, entitled "An act reducing the duties on imports, and
for other purposes," brought this action to recover back the
sum so paid under protest, as duties upon the separate value
of the barrels, within the time prescribed in said act for bringing the same.
Upon the foregoing facts, the question arose whether barrels manufactured in the United States, and exported empty,
and afterwards brought back to the United States filled with
molasses purchased in Cuba, were brought back "in the same
condition as when exported," according to the true intent and
meaning of the acts of Congress in that behalf; and the opinion of the judges being opposed on-that question, it was certifled to this court for decision. By the act of the second of
March, 1799, it is provided, that on any goods, wares, or merchandise, of the growth or manufacture of the United States,
which may have been exported to some foreign port or place,
and brought back to the United States, and upon which no drawback bounty or allowance has been made, no duty shall be demanded. 1 Stat. at Large, 662. Among other things, the ninth
section of the act of the 30th of August, 1842, provides that all
goods, wares, and merchandise, the growth, produce, or manufacture of the United States, exported to a foreign country,
and brought back to the United States, shall be exempt from
"duty. 5 Stat. at Large, 560. Dutiable articles, and those exempt
from duty, are arranged in schedules by the act of the 30th of
July, 1846, and the schedule of the latter class embraces goods,
wares, and merchandise, the growth, produce, or manufacture
of the United States, exported to a foreign country, and.brought
back to the United States in t7e same condition as when exported.

9 Stat. at Large, 49.
VOL. XXIV.

34

To entitle the article to entry free

SUPREME COURT.
"Knight et al. v. Schell.

of duty, it must also appear that it is one on which no drawback or bounty has. been allowed. It will be observed, that
the prior acts of Congress did not require that the goods
should be brought back in the same condition as when exported, in order to entitle the importer to claim that they
shofild be admitted to entry as included in the free list. That
language is retained in the act of the third of March'1857, without any alteration or amendment; so that although it may appear that the goods were the growth, produce, or manufacture
of the United States ; that they were exported to a foreign country, and brought back to the United States; still, unless it
also appears they were so brought back in the same condition
as when exported, the collector-of the port is not authorized
to admit them to entry free of duty.
Molasses barrels exported empty, when new, to Matauzas,
and there filled, and, with their contents, brought back to the
United States, cannot truly be said to be in the same condition as when they were exported. Oftentimes, when emptied
of their 'contents, they are unfit for a second voyage, and
seldom or never afterwards have the same market value as
when they were new. When filled in the foreign port, the
barrels have been applied to the commercial use for which
mey were manutactured; and when shipped with their contents, brought back to the United States, and are offered with
their contents by the importer for entry at the custom-house,
they have then, in respect to the revenue laws of the United
States, acquired a new character. For all the purposes of appraisement, with a view to ascertain the dutiable value of the
importation, the barrels, if filled, are regarded with their contents as packages; and it is the duty of the collector, by the
express words of the statute, to order one in ten of the packages to the public store. Examination of the selected packages is then made by the local appraisers; and in' case of
appeal, the same packages are required to remain in the public store, and frequently constitute the only attainable basis
of the subsequent adjudication by the merchant appraisers.
Such packages are ordered to the public store in the same
condition as when imported, and it is not possible to doubt

-DECEMBER TERM, 1860..

"53]

Knight el aZ. v. Schzell

that Congress intended to include, in the words one in ten of
the packages, the covering of the importation, if belonging to
the merchant, as well as the contents within it. Confirmation
of these views, if any be needed, may be found in the almost
unbroken practice of the Treasury Department. Take, for
example, the Treasury circular of the twenty-sixth of November, 1846, and it will be found that it fully justifies the conclusion to which we have come.
By that circular the several collectors were informed that"The principle upon which the appraisement is based- is
this: That the actual value of articles on shipboard at the last
place of shipment to the United States, including all preceding
expenses, duties, costs, charges, and transportation, is the
foreign value upon which the duty is to be assessed. The
costs and charges that are to be embraced in fixing the valuation, over and above the value of the article At the place of
growth, production, or manufacture, are-"The transportation, shipment, and tfanshipment, with all
the expenses included, from the place of growth, production,
or manufacture, whether by land or water carriage, to the
vessel in which shipment is made to the United States. Ineluded in these estimates is the value of the sack, package, box,
crate, hooshead, barrel, bale, cask, can, and covering 6f all
kinds, bttles, jars, vessels; and demijohns." Mayo Comp.,
350, 351.
Casks, including barrels, as well as hogsheads, exported
from the United States empty, and returned filled, have almost
-invariably, since the passage of the tariff act of the twentieth of
July, 1846, been included among the dufiable charges, although
of Amerrcan manufacture, on the ground that, when so fifled
and brought back, they were not in the same condition as
when exported, within the meaning of the provision of that
act. Mayo Comp., 407. That construction has been affirmed
by the TreaGury Department, since the passage of the appraisement aut of the thiril ,f March, 1851, as will appear by
reference to ,he Treasury cftr1ar adopted shorfly, after. its
passage, By that circular. the Department declies that

SUPREME CYUIRT.
Knight et al. v. Schell.

"The law enjoins that there shall be added 'all costs and
charges; except insurance, and including, in every case, a
charge for commissions at the usual rates.' These charges
are-as follows, to wit:
"They must include 'purchasing, carriages, dyeing, bleaching, dressing, finishing, putting up, and packing,' together with
the value of the sack, pack:ige, box, crate, hogshead, barrel, bale,
cask, can, and covering of all kinds, bottles, jars, vessels, and demijohns."
Without pursuing the discussion further, suffice it to say,
that we are all of the opinion that the question under consideration must be answered in the negative, and we accordingly
direct that it be certified to the court below, as the opinion of
this court, that barrels manufactured in the United States,
and exported empty to Cuba, and afterwards brought back to
the United States filled with molasses purchased in Cuba,
wet not brought back "in the same condition as when exported," within the true intent and meaning of the acts of
Congress in that behalf.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
southern district of New York, and on the point or question
upon which the judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed
in opinion, and which was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made and
provided, and was argued by conhsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court that barrels manufactured in
the United States, and exported empty to Cuba, and afterwards brought back to the United States filled with molasses
purchased in Cuba, are not brought back in the same condition as when exported, according to the true intent and meaning of the acts of Congress in that behalf. Therefore it is now
ordered by the court that it be so certified to the said
Circuit Court.

-here

