DECEMBER TERM, 1860."
Adler el al. v. ,Fenton et al.

and consequently it would not be a title upon which an action
of ejectment could be maintained. But it obviously is not a
case to which the doctrine of resulting trusts can be applied;
for, as between Fenby and the cestiys que trust, he can have
no equity against the express trusts td which he assented, .andwhich, indeed, according to the plaintiff's allegation, he procured to be made. And when the deed is offered in evidence
by the plaintiff, in order to derive to himself a legal titleunder
it, the interests and estates thereby conveyed cannot. be ellarged or diminished by testinony dehors the deed. The deed
must speak for itself.
If these trusts are fraudulent, the lessors of the plaintiff have
a plain and ample r'6medy in the court of chancery, which has
the exclusiv6 jurisdiction of-trusts and trust estates. In that
forum all of the par'ties interested in the controversy can be
brought before the court, and heard in defence of their respective claims. But as the case now stands, the only interest
which the plaintiff seeks io impeach is that of the eestuys que
trust; yet they are not before the court, nor can they by any
prociss be made parties in this ejectment suit, nor even be
permitted to make themselves pirties if they desired to d6 so,
and cannot have an opportunity of adducing testimony in defence- of their rights. Under such circumstances, an inquiry

into the validity of these trusts would not only be inconsistent
with the established principles and jurisdiction of courts of
common 1iw, but also inconsistent with that great fundamental rule in the administration of justice, which reduires-.tl'at
every one shall have an opportunity of defending his rights
before judgrn6nt is pronoun ed against him.
lhe judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.

JOSEPH HI.

ADLER, LEWIs SCiiiFF,

RINDSKOFF,

OLIVERv

PLAINiIFFS

SOOLo.IO

IN EntutO,

'.

ADLER, AND LOBE

Airox D.

FENTON,

H. LEE, WILLIAM II. D.AvIS, AND MEI-RT T. COLE.

Where a creditor, whose debt was not yet due at the time of bringing the action.

408

SUPREME COURT
Adler et al. v. Fenton et al.

brought a suit against his debtors and two other persons, for a conspiracy to
enable the debtors to dispose of their property fraudulently so as to hinder and
defeat the creditors in the collection of their lawful demands, the action will
not lie.
A'Te debtors were the lawful owners of the property at the time the suit was
commenced. They had the legal right to use and enjoy it to the- exclusion
of others,:and no one had any right to interfere with their use or'disposition;
none, unless there be a right conferred by the law upon a creditor to prevent
the accimplishment of fraud by his debtor, and to pursue him, and others assisting him, for a revocation of acts done to hinder, delay, or defraud him, in
the collection of his demands.
The authorities examined to show that this.cannot be done.
In this case, the creditor, by suing and levying an attachment upon the property
'of the debtor for such parts of the debt as had then become due, had waived
the alleged fraud in the contradt of sale and confirmed the pale.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the District'
Court of tho United States for the district of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Dooliltle for the plaintiffs in error,
upon which side there was also a brief filed by Mr. Brown, and
-by Mr. Lynde for the defendafts.
The points made by the .counsel on both sides were so connected with the special circumstances of the case, that the
effort to explain them to the reader would be fruitless without
a long narrative.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
'This action was instituted by the defendants in error in tte
District Court, as creditors of two of the plaintiffs in error,
Adler and Schifi, upon the complaint, that this firm had
combined abd conspired with their co-defendants in the court
below, to dispose of their property fraudulently, so as to hinder
and defeat their creditors in the collection of their lawful demands. By means of which fraudulent act8, they affirm they
suffered vexation -and expense, and finally inrcurred the loss of
their debt.
"he defendants pleaded the general issfie. Up-n the trial,

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

409

Adler et al. v. Fenton,et al.

the plaintiffs proved that Adler and Sebiff were traders in Miwaukie,.dud to carry on their business, in August, 1857; purchased of the "plaintiffs, and other merchants ir New York,
upon credit, a large quantity of merchandise, which, with their,
other property, shortly after its delivery at Milwaukie, was
assigned to one of their co-defendants, for the ostensible purpose of paying their debts, but really with the purpose of more
eftetually concealing it from the pursuit of their creditors.
There was testimony conducing to convict all the defendants of a common design to accomplish this purpose. The
plaintiffs had extended a credit to Adler-and Sciiff of two,
four, and six months. They caused an:'attachment to issue
against this firm upon all their debt.which had become due af
the time these transactions occurred, which -was levied upon
sufficient property to satisfy it, and afterwards, and before the
maturity of their remaihing demand, this suit was commenced.
At the time of the trial, this demand was their only claim.
again.st Adler and Sehiff.
The defendants requested the court to instruct the jury,
"that a creditor at large, as such, ,has no legal interest in the
goods of his debtor, and cannot maintain an action for any
damages done to such property; and that if the defendants had
been guilty of a conspiraey to remove the property of a debtor,'
not
and thereby to defraud his creditors, a creditor at large,
having a present right of action against such debtor ias not,
such an interest in the subject of the fraud as to enable him to
maintain an action for damages "against the defendants, and
that the declaration discloses no cause of action against the
defendants.",- The court declined to give this instruction, but
charged the jury "'that the plaintiffs sold their goods to Adler
and Schiff on credit; they had no interest in the goods sold,
or in the other property of these defendants, but an interest in
the debt owing for the goods so sold .on credit. And if the
defendants have been guilty 'of a conspiracy to remove the
property of Adler and Schiff, and they did so remove their
property with intent to defraud the plainttiffs in the collection
of their debt when it should become payable, even though it was
not payable when such removal was effected, the plaintiffs have

-

ST1i'IEME COURT:
Adler et a. v. Fenton et al.

a cause of action after the debt became payable." To enable
the plaintiffs to sustain-an action on the case like the present,
it must be shown that the defendants have done some wrong,
that is, have violated some right of theirs, and that damage
has resulted as a direct and proximate conseqiience from the
co.mmission of that wrong. The action cannot he sustained,
because there has been a conspiracy or combination to do injurious acts. In Savile v. Roberts, 1 Lord R.,*374, Lord Holt
said, " it was objected at.the bar against these old cases, thai
they were grounded upon a conspiracy, which is of an odious
nature, and therefore sufficient ground for an action by itself.
But to this objection he answered, that conspiracy is not the
ground of these actions, but the damages done to the party;
for an action will not lie for the greatest conspiracy imaginable,
if nothing be put in exe'ution."

There are cases of injurious

acts for which a suit will not lie, unless there be fraud or malice concurring to characterize and distinguish them. -But in
these cases the act must be tortious, and there must be consequent damage. An act legal in itself, and violating no right,
cannot be made actionable on account of the motive which
superinduced it. It is the province Qf ethics to consider of
actions in their relation to motives, but jurisprudence deals
with actions in their relation to -law, and for the most part independently of the motive. In Hutchins v. Hutchins, -7Hill,
N. Y. R., 104, the defendants had successfully conspired "to
induce a testator by fraudulent representations to alter a will
he had made in favor of the plaintiff.
The court said, "Sor injuries to health, liberty, and reputation, or to rights of property, personal or real, the law has
furnished appropriate remedies. The former are violations
of the absolute rights of the person; from which damage results
as a legal consequence. As to the latter,*the party aggrieved
must not only establish, that the alleged tort or trespass has
been committed, but must aver and prove his right or interest
in the property or thing affected, before he can be deemed' to
have sustained damages for which an action will lie." And
because the plaintiff had a mere possibility of benefit; and
was deprived only of hopes and expectations, it was lecided

DECEMBER TERM, ,1860.
Adler et al. v. Fenton et al.

that the action in that case would not lie. In Stevenson v.
Newnham, 18 C.B. R., 285, it was determined, that when the
act complained of is not unlawful per se, the characterizing it
as malicious and wrongful will not be sufficient to sustain the
action. In the present suit, the plaintiffs do not allege that
they were defrauded in the cantrawt of sale of their merchandise, although there is abundant testimony to show that the
purchases were made by Adler and Schiff, with th6 intention of
defrauding their vendors. But the plaintiffs, by electing to
sue for the price, have waived that fraud, and confirmed the
sale. Adler aild Schiff were thelawful owners of the'property
at .the time this suit was commenced. They had the legal
right to use and enjoy it to the exclusion of others, and no
one had any right to interfere with their use or disposition;
none, unless there be a, right coifrred by the law upon a
creditor to prevent the accomplishment of fraud by his debtor,
and to pursue him, and others assisting 11im, for a revocation
of acts done to hinder, delay, or defraud him, in the collection
of his denmand.
The authorities are clear, that chancery will not interfere to
prevent an insolvent debtor from alienating his property to
avoid an existing or prospective debt, even when there is a
suit pending to establish it. In Moran v. Dawes, Hopkins's
Oh. 1., 365, the court says: "Our laws determine with accuracy the time and manner in which the property of a debtor
ceases to be subject to his disposition, and.becomes subject to
the rights of his creditor. A creditor acquires. a lien upon the
lands of his .debtor by a judgment; and upon the personal
goods of the debtor, by the delivery of an execution to, the
sheriff. It is only by these liens that a creditor has any vested
or specific right in-the property of his debtor. Before these
liens are acquired, the debtor has full dominion over his property; he may convert one species of property into another,
and he may alienate to a purchaser. The rights of the debtor,
tud those of a creditor, are thus defined by positive rules;
alid tbe' points at which the power of the debtor ceases, and
the right of -the creditor commences, are clearly established.
These regulations cannot be contravened or varied by any in-

SUPREME COURT.
Adler et al. v Fenton et al.

terposition of equity. There are cases in which the violation
of the rights of a creditor"within these limits has formed the
subject of an action at law against third persons. Smith v.
Tonstall, Carth., 8; Penrose v. Mitchell, 8 S. and R., 522;
Kelsy v. Murphy, 26 Pen. R., 78; Yates v. Joyce, 11 John.,
136. But the analogies of the law, and the doctrine of adjudged cases, will not allow of an extension by the courts of
the remedy employed in those cases in favor of a general
creditor. This subject was discussed much at large in Lamb
v. Stone, 11 Pick., 527.
"The plaintiff complained of the fraud of the defendant in
purchasing the property of his absconding debtor, in order to
aid and abet him in the fraudulent purpose of evading the
payment of his debt. The court ask, what damage has the
plaintiff sustained by the transfer of his debtors property?
He has lost no lien; for he had none. Ngo attachment has
been defeated; for none had been made. He has not lost the
custody of his debtor's body; for he had not arrested him.
He has not been prevented from attaching the property, or
arresting the body of his debtor; for he had never procured
any writ of attachment against him. He has lost no claim
upon, or interest in the property; for he never acquired
either. The most that can be said is, that he intended to
attach the property, and 'the wrongful act of the defendant
has prevented him from executing this intehtion.

*

*

*

On the whole, it does not appear that the tort of the defendant
caused any damage to the plaintiff. But even if so,'yet it is too
remote, indefinite, and contingent, to be the ground of an
action." The same court reaffirmed this doctrine in Wellington v. Small, 3 Cushing R., 146.
Unquestionably, the claims of morality and justice, as well
.as thae legitimate interests of creditors, require there should
be pro."ection against those acts of an insolvent or dishonest
debtor that are contrary to the prescriptions of law, and aro
unfaithful and injurious. But the Legislature must determine
upon the iemedies appropriate for this end; and the difficulty
of the subject is evinced by the diversity in the systems of
different States for adjusting the relations of creditor and

DECEMBER TElRM, 1860.

413

Mfedberry et al. v. State of Ohio.

debtor, consistentiy with' equity and humanity. Bankrupt
and insolvent laws, laws allowing of attachment and sequestration of the debtor's estate, and for the revocation of fraudulent conveyances, creditors' bills, and criminal prosecutions
tbr fraud or conspiracy, are some of the modes that have been
adopted for the purpose. -In,
the absence of special legislation,
we may safely affirm; that a general creditor cannot bring
an action on the case against his debtor, or against those corbining and colluding with him to make dispositions of his
property, although the object of those dispositions be to binder, delay, and defraud creditors. The charge of the district
judge is erroneous, and the judgment of ihat court is reversed,
and the cause remanded for further proceedings.

ARNOLD. MEDBERRY, JOHN LAWHEAD, ROBERT -H. NuGEN, AND
ABNER J. DICKENSON, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,.V. THE STA ,E
OF OHIO.
Whether this cohrt has or has not jurisdiction uider the 25th section of The Judiciary act may be ascertained either from the pleadings, or by bill of
exceptions, or by a certificate of the court.
But the assignment of errors, or the published opinion of the court, cannot be
reviewed for that purpose. They make no part of the record proper, to which
alone this court can resort to-ascertain the subject-matter of the litigation. Therefore, where the record showed that the only question presented to the
State Court, and decided by them, was, whether the provisions of an act of
the Legislature were consistent with the Cunstitution of the State, this court
has no power to review their judgment.

THIS case was brought up from the Supr"cme Court of the
State of Ohio by a writ of error issued under the 25th section

of the Judiciary act.
The facts or the case are stated mu the opinion of the court,
and also in 7 Ohio State Reports, p. 523.
It came up on a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction,
which was sustained by Mr. lVohto and .Mr. Stanton, and op.
posed by Mr. Pugh.

