DECEMBER TElR.

1860.

Gregg et aZ. v. Forsyth.

Judgment reversed and cause remanded.

RIOHARD GREGG AND CHARLES BALLANCE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. ROBERT FORSYTH.
The possession of Ballance in the fractional quarter section of land spoken of in
the preceding report of the case of Meehan and Ballance v. Forsyth, so as to
entitle him to the benefit of the statute of limitations, need not have been by
himself personally, but possession by a tenant under him enured to his benefit.
The circumstance that Ballance had laid out the land into lots and blocks did
not make it necessary for him to reside upon every lot. The law only required
him to possess and reside upon the premises claimed by his title papers.
The volumes of American State Papers, Public Lands, three of which were published by Duff Green, under the revision of the Secretary of the Senate, by
order of the Senate, contain authentic papers winch are admssible as testimony without further proof.
A party cannot object to the reading of a record and deed of sale, upon the
ground that the proceedings had been irregular, when the parties to the decree had not complained of it. The objectors were strangers to these proceedings.

THIS case, like the preceding, of which it was a branch, was
also brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the northern district of Illinois, and was argued together with it by the same counselMr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of ejectment for a lot of land in the city
of Peoria, in the State of Illinois, commenced by the defendant in error against the plaintiffs in error.
The title of the plaintiff in the Circuit Court is shown by a
patent of the United States in favor of the legal representaives oi Antoine Lapance, who w64 an inhabitant or settler
within the purview of the act of Congress approved 3d March,
1823, entitled "An act to confirm certain claims to lots in the
village of Peoria, in the State of Illinois," which patent bears
date the first day of February, 1847, and is founded upon an
official survey of the first of September, 1840. The-plaintiff
deraigned his title from the patentees. In tracing his title he

SUPREME COURT.
Gregg etal. v. Forsyth.

read a document relevant to the cause from a volume of Amer
Ican State Papers, Public Lands, selected and edited under the
authority of the Senate of the United States, by its Secretary,
and printed by Duff Green. This was objected to, and the
question reserved by the defendants. The volumes of the
American State Papers, three of which were published by
Duff Green, under the revision .f the Secretary of the Senate,
by order of the Senate, contain authentic papers which are
admissible as testimony without further proof.
Watkins v. Holman, 16 Pet., 25. The plaintiff read a copy
of a deed from the public records, tie original of which was
not in the possession of the plaintiff, and which, upon inquiry

of the persons with whom it had been deposited, he was informed had been lozt. This testimony authorized the admismon of the copy as evidence. The deed in question had been
regularly recorded. No suspicion attached to the instrument,
and there was no reason to suppose that the better testimony
was fraudulently withheld or could have been obtained by
further inquiry Minor v. Tillotson, 7 Pet., 99.
IHe also read in evidence a record of a suit of partition in
the Circuit Court of Peoria county,which resulted in a decree
of sale of the interests of a number of the parties, under which
the plaintiff derived his title as a purchaser. The defendants
objected to the record and deed of sale, because the sale had
not been conducted with regularity, and the decree of sale had
been rendered against infants, by default, and because it did
not prescribe the manner of the sale. These, with other objections, were properly overruled by the Circuit Court. The
defendamzts were strangers to these proceedings, and cannot be
allowed to object to a result of which the parties to the decree have not complained.
The title of the defendants consisted of a patent from the
United States to the defendant, Ballance, in January, 1838,
for a fractional quarter section of land that includes the lot in
controversy, and containing a saving of the rights of any and
all persons claiming under th "atof-Congress of 3d March,
1823, entitled "An act'to confirm certain claims to lots in the
village of Peoria, in the State of Illinois." He made proof

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Gregy et al. v. Forsyth.

that he had resided on this quarter since 1844, and had cultivated portions of it for a long time previously, and had before
and since that date let other portions of it to tenants who oceupied it under him, aild that the particular lot in controversy
had been occupied by one of these tenants, who had upon it a
distillery Among other instructions, the defendants requested
the court to charge the jury, "that if they should believe from
the evidence that said Ballance, being in possession under
the title he has exhibited, leased the particular spot of ground
in controversy to Almiron S. Cole more than seven years before the commencement of this suit, and that said Cole took
possession thereof, and built a steam distillery and other fixtures thereon more than seven years before the commencement of this suit, and that said Cole held possession thereof,
and occupied it as a place of business, until he sold said establishment to Sylvanu Thompson, and that Sylvanus Thompson
and his soii-in-law; Richard Gregg, the defendant, occupied
the same until the death of Thompson, and that said Gregg
occupied the same until the commencement of this suit, the
plaitiffis not entitled to recover in this suit; that it was not
necessary for this defence that either the said Cole, Thompson,
or Gregg, should have had his dwelling-house on the particular lot, it is sufficient if they lived in the vicinity and occupied the lot in controversy as their place of business." The
Circuit Court refused to give these lifstructions, but charged
the jury, "that if Ballance had his house on one part of the
quarter, and his improvement extended over and included the
lot in controversy, so as to be connected with his residence,
and to form part thereof, or it was used ii connection there-with, that would, within the meaning of the law, constitute
actual residence. If Ballance built on one part of the quarter,
and this lot was left vacant and unoccupied and unimproved,
that would not, as to that lot, constitute an actual residence.
If Ballance, his tenants, or-those holdinig under him, aciiially resided on a lot adjoining lot 63 for seven years imnmediately preceding the commencement of this suit, and dpring all
that time occupied lot 63 as a place of business, as part and
parcel of the premises so resided on by them, that would coim-

SUPREM E COURT.
Gregg et al.v Forsyth.

stitute an actual residence within the meaning of the law, as
to this lot in controversy It is proper for the jury to consider
the circumstancei of the subdivision-of the land into lots and
blocks by Ballance, in April, 1846, and whether a severance
of the holding as to the particular lots and blocks so subdivided was thereby enacted. When ground is subdivided in
that manner under our law, there can be no doubt that different lots and blocks may be so occupied as to constitute an
actual residence in them all, but ordinarily, in case of subdivison, the construction of a house on a separate lot or
block, and a residence therein, without any connection with
adjoining or neighboring lots or blocks, -does not constitute
an adtual residence as to the whole. It is for the jury to
determine whether the facts and circumstances stated by the
defendant, Ballance, ot Those caiming under him, made them
actual residents of the lot in controyersy, for seven years before
the-iommeicement of this suit. If they did, then the defendants are within the protection of the statute, otherwise not."
This court, in the cases of Bryan v. Forsyth, 19 HRw., 384,
and again in Meehan v. Forsyth, at this term, have decided
that the saving in the. patent under which the defendants
claim did not create any fiduciary relation between the claimants under the act of Congress of 1823, referred to in it, and
the patentee; and that the possession of Ballance, under his
patent, was an adverse possession, unless another relation had
been created by contract between them subsequently to the
assuing of the patent. The present inquirv is, by what evidence must the actual residence on the land be supported to
enable the patentee to have the benefit of the act of limitations for seven years And it has been generally held, that
the residence and possession of land for seven years by a tenant inures to the benefit of the landlord, so as to secure for
him the protection of the act; and that this protection is not
confined to the particular cIose upon which the claimain.

resides, but also extends to the entire parcel of land of which
the legal possession has been maintained as a consequence of
his actual. possession and residence.
Poage v. Chinn, 4 Dana Ky R., 50.

DECEMBER .TERM,. 1860.
Ballance v. Forj

188

et al

The ease of Williams v. Ballance, 23 Ill., 198, involved a
controversy similar to that before the court.
The iquiry there was as to the validity of the residence
and possession of Ballance to support his defence of the statute of limitations, it being the residence and possession established by the testimony in this suit. The Supreme Court of
Illinois inquires whether Ballance occupied the premises described in the patent since 1844, by actual residence thereon.
"The fact," says the court, "is that he did, but he did not
reside upon every square yard of the premises, nor upon. the
particular lot. Nor was this necessary He resided upon tli
legal subdivision described in the patent, the evidence of Ins
title, and possessed and occupied it by himself and tenants.
We think the laying out the land into town lots did not
deprive him of the benefit of the statute of limitations of 1835,
as to all the fractional quarter, except the particular lot upon
which his house stood. He had a right to divide it into as
many lots, or portions, or divisions, as he pleased, and put a
separate tenant on each, and their, occupation would be his
possession and the law only required him to possess and reside upon the premises claimed by his title-papers, but the law
does not say upon what portion he should reside, and, above
all, it does not declare that he should reside upon every portion of it." The instructions of the Circuit Court are inconsistent with the law as thus laid down by the Supreme Court.
In our opinion, fhe possession established by Ballance in this
case was such as placed him under the protection of the statute.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded.

CHARLES BALLANCE, APPELLANT, v. R0BERT FORSYTH, LUCIENE

DUMAIN, AND ANTOINE R. Bouis.
After the mandate went down to the Circuit Court, in te case of Ballance
v. Forsyth, 13 Howard, 18, Ballance filed a bill upon the equity side of the
court, setting forth the same titles which were involved in the suit at law.
•id praying rellie.

