SUPlREME COURT.,
Lessee of Smith et al. v. Afcann.

teipretation of the exceptiofial clause in the act. We therefore sanction the construction adopted in the land office.
The Circuit Court overruled the demurrer of the defendant
to the bill, and made a decree in conformity to the prayer of
the bill. This is error. The decree of the Circuit Court is
reversed, and the cause is remanded to the Circuit Court, with
directions to dismiss the bill, with costs.

LESSEE OF ROBERT W. SMITH AND CAREY.W. BUTT, PLAINTIFF9

IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM MCNN,
In Maryland, the distinction between common law and equity, as known to the
English law, has been constantly preserved in its system of jurisprudence.
The statute of George the Second which made lands in the American colonies
liabld to be sold under . .fieri facias issued upon a judgment in a court of
common law, did not interfere with this distinction, and under it a legal estate
only and not an equitable interest could be seized under afi.fa.
In 1810, an act of Assembly was passed making equitable interests subject to
this process.
But the purchaser at the sale of an equitable interest under this process only
buys the interest which the debtor had, and thus becomes the owner of an
equitable and not a legal estate.
It is not, however, every legal interest that is made liable to sale on afi.Jh. The
debtor must have a beneficial interest in the property, and not a barren legal
title held in trust.
In the action of ejectment, in Maryland, the lessor of the plaintiff must show a
legal title in himself to the land which he claims, and the right of possession
inder it, at the time of the demis6 laid in the declaration and at the time of
the trial. He cannot support the action upon .an equitable title, however
clear and indisputable it may be, but must seek his remedy in chancery.
Where there was a deed of land to a debtor in trust which conveyed to him a
naked legal title, he took under it no interest that could be seized and sold by
the marshal upon aft.fa.; and thepurchaser at such sale could not maintain
an action of ejectment under the marshal's deed.
But the plaintiff in the ejectment suit offered evidence to prove that the trusts
in, the deed were fraudulent, and that the debtor purchased the land and procured the deed in this form in order to hinder and defraud his creditors. And
this proof was offered to show that the debtor had a beneficial interest in the
property, liable to be seized and sold for the payment of his debts

DECEMBER TL RM, 1860.
Lessee of Smith et aZ. v.

•399

c ann.

This parol evidence could not be introduced to enlarge or change the legal estate
of the grantee against the plain words of.the instrument.
If the evidence were admissible, the fraudulent character of the trusts, as against
his creditors, could not enlarge his legal interest beyond-the terms of the deed.
Although the debtor may have paid the purchase money, that circumstance
did not establish. a resulting trust in his favor.
The lessors of the plaintiff had a plain and ample remedy in chancery, where all
.the parties interested could be brought before the court.
The instruction of the court below was therefore correct, that the plaintiff could
not recover in the action of ejeetment.

Tms case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Davis and Mr. F. L. Smith for the
plaintiffs in error, and Mr. azrnpbel and Mr. Malcolm for the
defendants.
The points on behalf of the plaintiffs in error were the following. The counsel contended that the instruction given by
the court below was erroneous, and cited these authorities:
McMechen v. Marman, 8 G. and J., 57, 73, 74, 75.
Jackson v. Grahani, 3 Caines's R., 188.
Jackson v. Scott, 18 Johnson's R., 94.
Jackson ex dem. Cary v. Parker, 9 Cowen R., 85.
Jackson ex dem. Ten Eyck v. Walker, 4 Wendell, 462.
Culbertson v. Martin, 2 Yeates, 443.
Remington v. Linthicum, 14 Peters, 84.
Young v. Alger, 3 Watts, 223, 227.
.Jackson v. Bush, 10 John., 223.
In ejectment against a defendant in an execution, or those
claiming under him, the purchaser of land at a sheriff's sale,
having complied with the terms of sale, is entitled, as plaintiff, to recover the possession against said defendant or his
alience, and the defendant will not be permitted to controvert
the title by showing it to be defective, or by setting up a better outstanding title in a third person.
Remington v. Linthicum.

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of Smith el al. v. He Cann.

McMechen v. Marman.
'Lessee of Cooper v. Galbraith, 3 Wash. Cir. Ct. R, 546,
550.
Jackson v. Chase, 2 John. C. L. R., 82.
Jackson v. Pierce, Id., 221.
Jackson v. Deye, 3 John. C. L. R., 422.
Bayard v. Colfax et al., Cox's .Digest S. 0. U. S., 272,
sec. 41.
Jackson v. Davis, 18 Johh. C. L. R., 7.
Jackson v. Van Slyck, 8 John. C. L. R.; 486.
The trusts in the deed from Brown and wife to Richard D.
F uby being fraudulent and void, the deed passed an absolutE
title to Fenby of the land in controversy.
Bacon's Abr., vol. 2, Bouvier's Ed., 298, 305.
Hughes v. Edwards, 9 Wheat., 493.
That the terms of trust, in the deed from Brown andwife
to Fenby, not being established by any evidence, aliunde, the
said trust can be considered as existing, if at all, only from the
date of the deed.
Hill on Trustees, top pp. 86, 87, note 2.
The counsel for the defendant in error made the following
points:
1. This action of ejectment being brought in Maryland, and
the common law in that State being unchanged, the plaintiff
must show, in evidence, a legal tige.to enable him to recover.
The Maryland statute, (1810, ch. 160,) w]hich authorizes a sale
on execution at law, of equitable estates, does not change an
equitable into a legal title, and the purchaser must assert his
rights in their. appropriate form.
Carroll v. N'orwood, -5H. and J., 155.
Wilson v. Inloes, 11: Gill and Johnson, 351.
Hammond v. Inloes, 4 Maryland, 138.
2. To show themselves seized of a legal title, the plaintiffs
in error give in-evidence the deed from Brown and wife to
F(nby,'conveying the.property whichowas levied on under the
ji dgment against Fenby, and sold to the plaintiff's lessor.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860..
Lessee o

403

aSmith etal. 7.AtcCann.

and co-cperated in it; that he paid no money; and that notwithstanding this deed, Fenby continued in possession after
the laud had been advertised for.sale by the marshal, and that
the' possession was delivered to McCann only a few days before the sale was actually made.
The-defendant offered evidence for the purpose-of rebutting
the charge of fraud against Fenby and himself, and upon the
whole testimony as offered; several instructions to the jury
were moved for by each of the parties, which were all refused,
and the following instruction given by the court:
"fThe deed from' Robert P. Brown to Richad D. Fenby, of
the 6th of April, 1857,, conveyed only a naked legal interest to
said Fenby, which could not be levied on and sold under aft.
fa. i'ssued on, ajudgtment against him; be-having no beneficial
interest therein. And as the plaintiff; to sustain this action,
has offered the said deed in evidence, abd' as without it there
is no evidence of any legal title whatever in said Fenby at the
date of the levying of said ft. fa., or at any other time, the
plaintiff cannot recover in this action."
As this instruction disposed'of the case, it is unnecessary to
state at large the prayers offered by -the respective parties, or

the testimony upon which they respectively relied to prove or
disprove the imputations of fraud.
In discussing the question thus presepted. by the decision
of the court below, it is proper to stafe, that in Maryland the
distinction between common law and equity, as known to the
English law, has been constantly preserved in its system of
jurisprudence; and the action of ejectment isthe only mode
of trying a title to -lands. And in that action the lessor of the
plaintiff must show a legal title in himself to 'the land he
claims, and the right of possession under it, at-the time of the
'demise laid in the declaration, and at the timeqof the trial.
He cannot support the action upon an equitable title, howover
clear and indisputable it may be, but must seek his remedy in
chancery; nor is the defendant required to show any title in
,himself; and if the -plaintiffmakes out a primafacie legal title,
the defendant may show an elfer and superior.one in a stran.
ger, and thereby defeat the action.

104

SUPREME COURT
Lessee of Smith et al. v. AcCann.

The law upon this subject is briefly and clearly stated by
the Cour of Appeals of the State, in 11 Gill and Johnson, 358,
and 4 Maryland Reports, 140, 173.
-We state the law of Maryland upon this subject, because
very few of the States have pregerved the distinction between
legal and equitable titles to land. And in States where there
is no court of equity, the courts of common law necessarily
deal with equitable interests as if they were legal, and exercise
powers over themh which are unknown to courts of common
law, where a separate chancery jurisdiction is established.
Cases, therefore, decided iii States which have no courts oi
equity, as contradistinguished from courts of common law,
can have no application to this case so far as trusts or any
other equitable interest is involved. And even in States
where the chancery jurisdiction has been preserved, the decisions of their respective courts do not always harmonize in
marking the line of division between law and equity. And as
the title to real property, whether legal or equitable, and the
mode of asserting that title in courts of justice, depend altogether upon the laws of the State in which the land is situated,
cases like that now before the court are questions of local law
only, in which we must be guided by the decisions of the State
tribunals.
Since the passage of the act of George 2d, which made lands
in%the American colonies liable to be sold under aft. fa. issued
upon a judgment in a court of common law, the proceis of
extemt has fallen into disuse, and is regarded as obsolete in
Maryland. But this statute did not interfere with the
established "distinction between law and equity, and an equi-.
table interest could not be seized under aft. fa. until the law
of Maryland was in this respect altered by an act of Assembly
of the State in 1810. - But this law does not convert the equitable interest into-a legal one, in the hands of the purchaser.
He buys precisely the interest which the debtor had at the
time the execution was levied; and if he purchased an equitable interest and desires to perfect his title, he must go into
equity, where the court vill decree a'conveyance to him from

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Lessee of Srnith el al. v. Hc Cann.

This deed, (Rec. 25,) which conveyed the legal title to Fenby,
conveyed it to him in trust for his wife and children, and gave
him but a dry legal title, with no beneficial interest in himself,
and so vested nothing in him which could be attached or taken
in execution upon process against him.
Houston v. Newland, 7 Gill and Johnson, 493.
Aware of this insuperable difficulty, the plaintiffs in error
seek, by.a charge of fraud against the deed,. to extinguish the
trust, and thus convert the legal ownership of Fenby into a
beneficial one. But if the deed be void against creditors, by
reason of the trust for Fenby's wife and children, the statute
of Elizabeth avoids it in toto, and the plaintiffs in error cannot,
at the same time, set it up and destroy it. If the deed be
wholly void, for fraud or. any other cause, then the foundation
of the plaintiff's title fails, for without it Fenby had no estate.
If it be relied on as the source of Fenby's title, it must be taken
as it is.
Mackie v. Cairns, Hopkins, 405.
5 Cowen, 580.
5 Shepley, 369.
4 Yerger, 164.
2 Sanford C. Rep., 630,' Goodhue v. Beriry.
6 Gill and Johnson, 231, State v- Bank of Maryland.
Mr. Chief Justice TAN-EY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes up upon a writ of error to revise the judgment of the Circuit Court for the district of Maryland, in an
action of ejectment brought by th6 plaintiff in error against
the defendant to recover certain lands lying in that State.
The plaintiff, in order to show title to the land claimed, offered in evidence, that Smith and Butt, lessors of the plaintiff,
having sold cotton to Fenby & Brother, of Baltimore, in 1857,
drew on them for the sum due, and their bills were protested
to the amount of $13,708. They thereupon brought suit on
the 3d of June, 1857, and recovered judgment in the Circuit
Court on the 6th of April, 1858; and on the 10th of the same
month they issued a fie ifiaeias, which was on the same-day
levied by the marshal on the land in -controversy; and -afterVol. xxIv.
26

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of Smitl et al. v. Mc Cann.

wards, on the 2d of September next following, sold at public
auction. At this sale the lessors of the plaintiff were the purchasers, and received from the marshal a deed in due form.
The plaintiff further proved that a certain Robert D. Brown
was seized in fee of the land at the times hereinafter mentiolied, and read in evidence a deed from him and his vife,
dated April 6th, 1857, whereby they conveyed it to Richard
D. Fenby, one of the defendants, against whom the judgment
was afterwards obtained, stating at the time he offered it in
evidence, that he impeached the trusts in the deed for fraud,
-nd intended to show such trusts to be void against him.
The deed purports to be in consideration of $7,800.50, and
recited that the land was purchased by Fenby, from Brown,
on the 13th of March, 1852, and then grants to Fenby, "as
trustee," the lands in question in fee simple, in "trust" for the
sole and separate benefit of Jane Fenby, the wife of the said
Richard D. Fenby, for and during the term of her natural life,
in all respects as if she was a ferne sole, free from all liability
for the debts of her husband, and from and immediately after
the death of the said Jane Fenby, in trust for such child or
children, and descendants of a deceased child or children of
the said Jane, as she may leave living at the time of her death.
Such child, children, and descendants, to take per stirpes.
The deed gives authority ta Fenby to sell a'd dispose of any
part of the trust property, and to invest the proceeds in safe
securities upon the same trusts.
The plaintiff further offered evidence tending to prove that
Feuby was hopelessly insolvent when this deed was made, and
that he was in possession of the land from the time he purchased it in 1852.
The defendant, McCann, then read in evidence a deed froni
Fenby to him, dated March 23d, 1858, purporting to be made
in execution of the .power conferred by the trust deed, and
conveying the property in fee simple in consideration of twenty-two thousand dollars.
And the plaintiff thereupon offered evidence tending to
show that this deed was. intended to cover the previous fradd
of the one to Fenby; that McCann was privy to this design,

DECEMBER TERM, .1860.
Lc ss of Smifh

405

at. v. .2d~ann.

the holder of the legal title, if he.shows that the debtor was
entitled to it at the time of the levy.
But the statute of George 2d, which authorized the sale of
Jai ids under afi.fa., did not authorize the sheriff to deliver
them, nor the court to issue the writ of hab. fac. poss. upon
the return of the process. And the result of this was, that the
purchaser was compelled to bring an ejectment to obtain the
poasession, in which, as we have already said, he must show a
legal title to the land; and consequently must s.how, that the
debtor, at the time of the levy, had a legal title, and such a
title as was subject to seizure and sale under the jirifacis.
Aid if the debtor had but an equitable title, the purchaser
was compelled to go into equity, and obtain a legal one before
he could support an action of ejeetment against the party in
possession. X more summary process in certain cases has
been since provided by a law of the State passed in 1825.
But up to that time the principles above stated were the sett
tled law of the State;. and remain so, except in so far as they
are altered by that act of Assembly. It is unnecessary to state
the provisions of that act, because the plaintiff did not proceed
under it, He has resorted to the action of ejectment to obtain
possession, and cannot recover, unless he can show a legal title
-to the premises. 'It is not, however, every legal interest that
is made liable to sale on afi.fa. The debtor must have a beneficial interest in the property. And in Houston v. Newland,
7 Gill and Johnson, 493, where a party had sold the' land to another bona fide, but had not conveyed the legal title, the court
held that the title remaining in the vendors was a barren legal
title, in trust for the purchaser, and could not be sold for the
payment of his debts. And a still later case, 16 Gill and Johnson, 443, 451, 452, Matthews v. Ward's Lessee, where land
had been conveyed to a trustee, in trust for third persons, and
the cestuys que trust had died without heirs, the court decided
that the land eseheated to the State, although the heirs of the

trustee to whom the legal estate was conveyed were still living,
and said that "the rilghts of such trustee, who is a mere instrument, are treated with no respect, and the State deals with the
property as her own."

106

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of Smith et al. v. McCann.

"Weproceed to apply these principles to the case before us.
The deed to Fenby, in plaitn and unambiguous words, conveyed to him a naked legal title; he took under it no interest
-that could be seized and sold by the marshal upon aft fi.;
and the deed of the marshal, therefore, conveyed no title to
the lessdrs of the plaintiff. Standing only upon this title, derived under this deed to Fenby, and showing no other title, he
certainly could not recover in an action of ejectment.
-But the plaintiff offers evidence to prove that the trusts in
the deed are fraudulent, and that Fenby purchased the land
and procured the deed from Brown in this form, in order to
hinder and defraud his creditors. And he offers this proof to
show that Fenby, had a beeficial interest in the property,
liable to be seized and sold for the payment of his debts.
The proposition to enlarge or change the legal estate of the
grantee in a deed, by parol evidence, against the plain words
of the instrument, is without precedent in any court of common law. And in the case of Remington v. Linthicum, relied
on by the plaintiff, the evidence was offered, not to change
the~estate limited in the grant, but to show that the grant was
fraudulent, and utterly void, and conveyed no interest whatever to the grantee named in it. The party offering the evidence did not' claim under that deed, but against it. And if,
in this case, the evidence was offered for a like purpose, and
the deed proved to be fraudulent and void, it would defeat the
plaintiff's action instead of supporting it.

He does not, however, offer the parol evidence for this purpose, but offers it to enlarge the estate of Fenby, and to show
that he had not merely a barren legal title, but a beneficial
interest, which was liable for the payment of his debts. But
if the evidence were, admissible, we do not perceive how the
fraudulent character of the trusts, as against his creditors,

could enlarge his legal interest beyond the terms of the deed.
It is true he paid the money for the property. And if this circumstance could be supposed to create a resulting trust for the
benefit of Fenby, it would be a mere equitable right exclusively within the jurisdiction of a court of chancery, and a
court of common law could neither enforce it nor notice it;

DECEMBER TERM, 1860."
Adler el al. v. ,Fenton et al.

and consequently it would not be a title upon which an action
of ejectment could be maintained. But it obviously is not a
case to which the doctrine of resulting trusts can be applied;
for, as between Fenby and the cestiys que trust, he can have
no equity against the express trusts td which he assented, .andwhich, indeed, according to the plaintiff's allegation, he procured to be made. And when the deed is offered in evidence
by the plaintiff, in order to derive to himself a legal titleunder
it, the interests and estates thereby conveyed cannot. be ellarged or diminished by testinony dehors the deed. The deed
must speak for itself.
If these trusts are fraudulent, the lessors of the plaintiff have
a plain and ample r'6medy in the court of chancery, which has
the exclusiv6 jurisdiction of-trusts and trust estates. In that
forum all of the par'ties interested in the controversy can be
brought before the court, and heard in defence of their respective claims. But as the case now stands, the only interest
which the plaintiff seeks io impeach is that of the eestuys que
trust; yet they are not before the court, nor can they by any
prociss be made parties in this ejectment suit, nor even be
permitted to make themselves pirties if they desired to d6 so,
and cannot have an opportunity of adducing testimony in defence- of their rights. Under such circumstances, an inquiry

into the validity of these trusts would not only be inconsistent
with the established principles and jurisdiction of courts of
common 1iw, but also inconsistent with that great fundamental rule in the administration of justice, which reduires-.tl'at
every one shall have an opportunity of defending his rights
before judgrn6nt is pronoun ed against him.
lhe judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.

JOSEPH HI.

ADLER, LEWIs SCiiiFF,

RINDSKOFF,

OLIVERv

PLAINiIFFS

SOOLo.IO

IN EntutO,

'.

ADLER, AND LOBE

Airox D.

FENTON,

H. LEE, WILLIAM II. D.AvIS, AND MEI-RT T. COLE.

Where a creditor, whose debt was not yet due at the time of bringing the action.

