DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Palma-el a v. United States..

not be liable for damages which it was not in her power to

prevent. So, also, ships at sea, from storms or darkness of the
weather, may come in collision with one another without fault
on either side, and in that case each must bear its own loss,
although one is much more damaged than the other. Stains
back etal. v. Rae et al., 14 How., 532. Applying these principles to the present case, it is obvious what the result- must
be. Without repeating the testimony, it will be sufficient to
say, that it clearly appears in this case that those in charge of
the steam tughad the exclusie control, direction, and management, of both vessels, and there is not a word of proof in
the record, either that the tug was not'a suitable vessel to
perform the service for which she was employed, or that any
one belonging to the ship either participated in the navigation, or was guilty of any degree of negligence whatever in the.
premises.
Counsel on both sides stated, at the- argument, that they
were -prepared to discuss a question of jurisdiction supposed
to be involved in the record, but upon its being suggested by
the court that the question was not raised either by the evidence,-or in the pleadings, the point vas abandoned. In view
of the whole case, we think the decision of the Cirouit Court
was correct, and -the decree is accordingly affirmed, with
costs.

JOSEPH C. PALMER, CHARLES W COOK, BETHUEL PHELPS, AND
DEXTER R. WRIGHT, APPELLANTS, V. THE UNITED STATES.
An instrument of writing purporting to be a grant of land in California by Pio
Pico, in 1846, is not sustained by the authority of the public archives or in
conformity with the regulations of 1828, and therefore comes -within the previous-decisions of this court, declaring such grants void. Mforeover, the evidence in the case shows that the alleged grant 'was utterly
fraudulent.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court,

SUPREME COURT.
Palmeret al. v. United States.

It was argued by Mr Benapan for the appellants, and by
Mr Black (Attorney General) for the United States.
The arguments consisted of comments upon the evidence in
the case, which would not be intepesting to the profession generally
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants claim the land in dispute as assignees of
Benito Diaz. This claini was rejected by the board of land
commissioners, and also by the District Court.
The documentary evidence, upon which the case rests, is as
follows.
1. A petition of Bemito Diaz, dated April 8, 1845, in which
he asks for a grant of land which he calls "a vacant place
within the jurisdiction of San Francisco, known by the name
of 'Punta de Lobos,' bounded on the north by the sea, which
flows to the port of Sai Francisco, on the south with the
Cerro, in the rear of the mission known by the name of the
'Cerro de Laguna Honda, on the east with the 'Loma Alta,
and on the west by 'Ia Punta de Lobos, which will comprehend two leagues." The petition adds that the presidio and
castle are within the tract, but the petitioner does not ask for
them unless the Government is willing; but if that be done.
lie promises to erect a house of certain dimensions in the port of
San Franciscofor the military command.
2. An.order of reference, bearing date May 24, 1845, and
signed Pico, ordering the petition to pass for information to
the respective judge, and await the report of the military commander ITpon the matter
3. A report from Jose de la Cruz Sanches, who seems to
have been alcalde at the pueblo of San Francisco, dated August 16, 1845, in which he declares that the land is vacant, and
thie petitioner has the necessary requisites according to law,
but declining t- gire any information about the military lands.
4. A report by Francisco Sanches, the military commander,
dated at the military command o San Francisco,October 18, 1845,
settin- forth that the land the petitioner solicits is vacant and

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

127

_Palame- et al. v. United States.

may be conceded to him, "not comprehending zn the grant the
two military points af the castle and presidio that are'includedrn the
petition."
These documents are all written on the same paper. The
Governor's order of reference is on the margin, and the reports endorsed. But there is no concession or order that a
definitive title should issue to the petitioner, as is always found
when the Governor accedes to the prayer of the petition. (See
Arguello v. United States, 18 Howard, 543.)
The petition is not accompanied by a disefio or map of the
land, as required by the regulations of 1828. This is all the
document found among the archives or public records, and
shows this fact only- that the petitioner asked for land, that
the inforrn6 did not satisfy the Governor, who did not accede
to the request, and therefore the petitioner took nothing by
his application. That the Governor had good reasons for refusing the prayer of this petition, is apparent from the fact,
not only of the public fortifications of the harbor being erected
thereon, but because on the 4th of N~ovember, 1834, Governor
Figueroa, in his decree establishing the puebla of San Francisco, had included a large portion of the land now claimed,
and the remainder was claimed as the land of the Mission
Dolores, which the Departmental Assembly afterwards (15th
April, 1846) ordered to be sold at auction, and suspended the
further alienation of the same as vacant.
This is all the record evidence, on which alone the court'
can rely as speaking the truth. It does not show even an
inchoate equity in Benito Diaz; nor does the fact that he carried off some of the materials of the dilapidated fort to build
him a house in San Francisco add to it.
The next fact which we can admit as sufficiently proved is,
the sale by Benito Diaz of the land claimed to Thomas 0.
Larkin, in September, 1846, reciting a grant or patent to Diaz,
dated 25th of June, 1846. This instrument purports to be a
patent or definitive title to Benito Diaz, for all the land included in the boundaries mentioned in the petition. The
public fortifications which protect the harbor of San Francisco
are not excepted. The value of such a grant might easily be

SUPREME COURT
Palmer et al. v. Uidted States.

anticipated, when the occupation of the country by the United
States had taken place. Pio Pico, after his deposition from
the government, could afford to be more liberal in 1846 than
in 1845, when he very-properly refused to make it. There is
no trace of thts grant to be found on record, or in the public
archives. It purports to be signed by Pio Pico, and attested
by his secretary, Moreno and each of them has been called
to attest the genuineness of the signatures. We have decided
in the case of Luco v. United States, (23 How., 543,) "that,
owing to the weakness of memory with regard to the dates of
grants signed by them, the testimony of the late officers of
the Mexican Government ii. California cainot be received to
supply or contradict the public records, or establish a title of
which there is no trace to be found in the public archives."
In compliance with this rule, we might dismiss this case without further argument; for if the testimony of the officers of
the Government cannot, be relied on, much less can that of
more- obseure individuals, especially as we have seen in the
Luco case, and some others, that it is easy to obtain any number of -witnesses to depose to any fact necessary to establish a
fraudulent grant.
The testimony brought in this case to support this private
deed, and give it the force and effect of a public record, grant,
or patent, and to prove that it was executed as such before the
7th of July, 1846, when the official functions of the late officers ceased entirely, tends only to confirm the suspicions in
which it is involved, and demonstrate the necessity of the rule
of decision which we have adopted.
Pio Pico was called as a witness. He swears "that he believes the signatures to be genuine," and that is all. He does
not state where it was signed, or when it was signed, whether
before or after his expulsion from the Government. If executed where it purports to be, viz. at Los Angeles, where the
public records were kept, lie knew it could be proved he had
left Los Angeles a week before its date, (25th June,) and was
residing at Santa Barbara, where lie remained till the approach
Ie knew it could be proved thal
of Fremont to Monterey
his secretary, who attested the paper, was in Los Angeles,

DEOEMBER TERM, 1860.

129

la'imer et al. v. United States.

Eeventy miles distant. He could probably give no better reason for his willingness to sell the public forts, wich, he had
refused to do a year before, than the fact that the. Americans
had taken possession of them. His silence on these points is
expressive. There is no doubt that his testimony, so far as it
goes, is true, and given with is habitual caution. He might
excuse himself for not stating.whether or not this grant was
one of the large nu-fmber said to have been executed by-him
on the 8th of August, on the eve of his departure to Mexico,
for the reason that no question was asked him as to that fact.
Moreno, the secretary, is not so cautious, and therefore has
involved himrs6lf in more difficulties, which are unexplained,
and perhaps inexplicable.
He testifies as follows.
"I recollect this document. I saw it on the 25th June, 1846,
when I signed it. This is my signature as secretary ad interim, and also my signature to the certificate of registry; and
I saw Pio Pico sign it as Governor. This is his genuine signature. I think Benito Diaz wrote the body of the grant himself. After the grant was completed, I delivered it to the agent
,of Benito Diaz, on the road from Los Angeles to Santa Barbara. The agent to whom I delivered it, according to my
recollection, was Eulogio Celiz."
Now, this document states that it was "given in the city of
Los Angeles, on the 25th of June, 1846," and Moreno swears
he saw Pio Pico sign it, who was on that day seventy miles
distant in §anta Barbara. His certificate, that he has recorded it in the proper book, he does not prove to be true, or if
he was at Santa Barbara, with Pico, on the 25th, how he
could recordit in Los Angeles, where alone the records were
kept. If he executed and recorded it in Los Angeles, he does
not explai4i why it is in the handwriting of- Benito Diaz, and
not drawn up by the clerks of the department as other grants;
and how it came to pass that the date of the paper, and his
certificate, are in the handwriting of Benito Diaz, who was at
San Francisco, some five hundred and twenty miles distantnor how it came to pass, that when he had signed and recorded
this important document, he put it in hiso.pocket, and started
VOL. XXIV

9

SUPREME COURT.
Palmeret al. v. United States.

for Santa Barbara, and met Celiz on the road, nor does he
explain how Celiz, who left San ,Francisco on the 21st of
June, with this paper drawn up by Diaz, for the purpose of
taking it to Los Angeles to have it executed, could have
taken it all the way to Los Angeles, five hundred and twenty
miles, before it was executed, and then, that Moreno should
meet him on the road between Santa Barbara and Los Angeles, after it was executed. There were no railroads in Califoria at that time by which to account for such swift travelling.
Diaz testifies that the document is in his handwriting;
"that he wrote it in San Francisco, on the 20th or 21st of
June, in consequence of a letter which he received from Banidii, whom he calls secretary of the Government," but who
was not secretary "That. the country was in such a critical
state, that it was necessary to send it immediately; which he
did, by special courier. That from information of his courier,
Celiz, he understood that the grant was signed on the road,
either at Santa Buena Ventura, or Santa Barbara." The crit
ical state of the country, as the Americans were in possession
of the greater part of it, will no doubt account for the fast
riding of the courier, and in some measure for the execution
of the deed on the highway, and the false certificate of record
of a document which, without such recording, was but a private deed.
If Celiz met Pico where he states, he required but five days
to ride five hundred miles, while it required eight days for
Pico to travel less than seventy miles.
There is no necessity to rely upon the testimony of wit.
nesses Crane and Watson, that Diaz declared, "that after the
American revolution, he made out the grant in his own handwriting; and that, in order to make it valid, he dated it back
to the month of June."
The face of the paper, and the testimony brought to support
it, sufficiently demonstrate this to be the fact.
It is evident, that when this grant was fabricated, it was not
known that conclusive evidence could be produced of the absence of Governor Pico from Los Angeles on the day of its

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
idted States v. 0Vtana et al.

date. iHence the necessity of changing the venue -to "that of
the highway, when it was too late to alter or erase the ce:tificate of record to suit it. And hence the absurd contradictions
exhibited in the testimony of Moreno, who appears to be
emulating the example of his predecessor.
The judgment of the District Court is therefore affirmed,
with costs.
THt UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. CLAUDE CHANA, WILLIAM
MARTIN, THOMAS P TURNER, AND ALBERT ROWE.
[he decision of this court in the cases of United States v. Nye, 21 Howard, 408,
and United States v. Rose, 23 Howard, 262, again affirmed; and as the testimony in the present case is similar to that offered in the above cases, the
juidgment of the District Court in favor of the claimant is reversed.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
.States for the northern district of California.
The claim was based upon Sutter's general title, which has
been explained in some of the preceding volumes of these Reports.
It was submitted on printed argument by Mr. Black (Attorney General) for the United States, no counsel appearing
for the appellees. It appears to have been confirmed by the
court below before they knew the decision of this court with
regard to Sutter's general title.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees presented their claim before the board of
commissioners for the settlement of land claims in California
for a tract of land, consisting of four leagues, on the south
side of Bear creek, in Yuba county, under a grant to Theodore Sicard by Micheltorena, Governor of the Department of
California..
The testimony io sustain the claim is similar to that offerea
in the cases of United States v. Nye, 21 How., 408, and United States v. Rose, 28 How., 262. In these cases it was determineil that the testimony was not sufficient to support the

