346

SUPREME CO-RT.
Unite.d States v. Castro et al

its judgment is reversed, and the cause is remanded for fhrthei
proceedings, in conformity with this opinion.

THE UNiTED ST TS, APPELLANTS, V. JOSE CAsTO AND OTHERS
As a general rule, in order to support a title to land in California under a Mexican grant, the written evidence of the grant in the forms required by the
Mexican law must be found in the public archives and records, where they
were required by law and regulations to be deposited and recorded.
In order to pupport a title by secondary evidence, the claimant must show that
these title palers had been deposited and recorded in the -roper office; that
.the records and papers of that office, or some of them, lad been lost or destroyed; and also, that he entered into the possession of the premises and
exercised authority as owner within a reasonable time after the date of the
grant. The possession is an essential part of the secondary evidence of title.
Parol proof of a grant produced from a private receptacle, without proof that it
had been deposited and recorded in the proper officeand the loss and destruction of papers in that office, is not sufficient to support a title, even if jossession
be proved by the oral testimony of witnesses..

THis.was .an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The title of Castro is set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Stanton (Attorney General) for the
United States, apd Mr. Edward Swann for the appellees.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees claim title to elven leagues of land in Califoinia under ai Mexican grant.
In March, 1853, they filed a petition before the board of
land ommissioners, stating that the land in question was, on
the 4th of April, 1846, granted by Pio Pico, then Governor
of California, to Jose Castro, one of the appellees, under
whom the others claim as purchasers. The petition states
that the land was occupied and improved by the grantee soon
after the date of thetgrant.

DEOEMBER TERM, 1860.
Uniled States v. Castro et a.

It appears that the paper purporting to be the original grant
was deposited in the Government archives of the United
States, on the 8th of June, 1849, more than three years after
its date, and two years after the cession -of the territory. It
was deposited not by Castro, but by Bernard McKenzie,
whose representatives claim a portion of the land under a
conveyance from Castro; and the deed to him bears date on
the same day-that is, June 8, 1849. The following is the
translation of the grant as it appears in the record:
Pio

ieo, Constitutional Governor of the Department of the Cali-

fornias.
[SEAL.]

Whereas the lieutenant colonel of cavalry, Don Jose Castro,
Mexican citizen, has petitioned, for the benefit of himself and
his family, for a tract of laud, foir pasturing cattl., on the bank
of the river.San Joaquin, consisting of eleven leagues, whose
measurement is to ,be commenced from the edge of the Snowy
mountains, following down strem-having previously made
the necessary investigations, I -have, by a decre4 of this day,
granted to the said. Sefior the eleven sitios he prays for,
declaring to him the ownership thereof by these present letters, in- conforaity with the law of Aiugust 18, 1824, and the
regulations of 21st November, 1828, in conformity with' the
powers Niiti which I find myself invested by. the Supreme
Government, in The name of the Mexican nation, under reser'vation of the approval of the Departmental -AsSembly, and
under the following conditions:
1st. He may feiice it, without injury to the cross.roads, highways, and rights of way. He may enjoy it freely and exclsively,'directing it to the best cultivation or Use which, may
be-to his convenience.
2d. He shall request ibe judge of that district to give him
the juridical possession, lhy virtue of these patents, who shall
mark out the boundaries with the respective landmarks, placing, in addition to them, some fruit trees, or others of knownutility.
d. The land, of which donation is made, Coisists expressly

-

SUPREME COURT.
United -Statesv. Castro et al.

of eleven (sitios) ranges of large cattle, upon the banks of the
San Joaqfuin. Measurement shall commence front the edge
of the Sierra Nevada. The judge who may gite the possession shall have it measured with entire observance of the ordinances, and in view of the sketch, or topographical plan which
the grantee shall present.
In consequence whereof, i order that the present title, being
held as firm and valid, be recorded in the corresponding book,
and delivered to the party in interest for his protection, and
other purposes.
Given in the Governor's house, at the city of Los Angeles,
upon common paper, there being none stamped, on the fourth
day of the month of April, one thousand eight hundred and
forty-six.
PIO PICO.
JOSE MATIAS MORPEvu,

Sec'y pro tern.
Record has been taken of this superior patent in the respective book.
MORENO.
The handwriting of Pio Pico and Jose Matihs Moreno were
proved by a sinigle witness. But no testimony-was offered to
show when or where this paper was executed, nor any testimony to show who had the custody of it, uitil it was deposited
in the public archives, as above mentioned; nor.is any reason
given for keeping it out of the public office for so long a time,
nor how McKenzie obtained possession of it, except by the
deed from Castro, which he produced at the same time. And
nothiing was then produced to support the grant but this
paper; no petition from Castro; no informe, or decree, as
required by the la~is of Mexico. And, notwithstanding Moreno's certificate that a record had been taken of it in the
respective book, no trace of anything in relation to it is to be
found in the archives of the Mexican authoritids; nor wrs any
attempt made to take possession until 1849; for although the
appellees state in their petition that Castro took -possession
soon after the grant was made-that is, in 1846-and some
of his witnesses swear to the same fact, and some even carry
back- his possession to 144 under A promise of MicheltorenC

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

349

United States v. Castro et al.

to make him a grant in that place; yet all of this testimony is
contradicted by Vinsenhaler, who appears to have been anv
active agent in this matter, and directed -the surveyor who
made the survey in 1853, where he should begin, and~where,
he should run the lines. Ile says that he was at the place in
October, 1849; that Castro took possession in August or September co'that year, and built a corral, and had cattle there in
the early part of 1850; and that it would have been unsafe, in
consequence of the hostility of wild Indians, to have attempted
to occupy it earlier. A paper thus wanting in all the written
proceedhigs which the Mexican law 1equired before a grant
could be issued, which had never been seen by any one of the
witnesses until produced. by McKenzie, with no evidence of
tle time or place of its execution, wit h no trace of it in .the.
Mexican archives, and the witnesses produced-to prove the
possession contradicting each other, can hardly be entitled to
confirmition as it valid grant. And even if the witness who
proves the handwriting of Pio Pico and of Moreno is entitled
to belief, yet the conclusion would seem to be irresistible that
the paper was fraudulently ante-dated
But apart from these circumstances the granf is invalid, and
not supported by legal proof, even if all-th9 testimony adduced
by the claimants was credible, and the witnesses above suspicion.
The grants of portions of the public domain in Mexico, the
mode of obtainifig them, and the officers by whom they were
to be issued, and the conditions.to be annexed, to them, were
with great precision regulated by law. This law has so offen
been referred to and c6nimented on in former opinions of this
court, that it is unnecessary to report here its particular pro-'
visions. It is sufficient to say that it was required to be', n.
writing, the officers and tribunals before which it was to pass
desigiatecd,, and every step I the process,. from the petition
of the party to the final consummation of the title, was not
only required to be in writing, but also to be deposited and
recdrded in the proper public office among the public.archives
of the Republic.
Whenever, therefore, a party claims title to rands in Califor-

SUPREME COURT.
United States . Castro et al.

nia under a Mexican grant, the general rule is that the grant
must be found in the proper office among the public archives;
this is the highest and best evidence.
But as the loss or destruction of public documents may in
some instances have occurred, it would be unjust that a party
should be deprived of his prop:gCry by reasoti of an accident
which he had not the.power t&prevent; and upon proof of
that fact, secondary evidence to a certain extent will be received.
But in order to maintain a title by secondary evidence, the
claimant must show to the satisfaction of the court: 1st, that
the grant was obtained and made in the manner the law required, at some former time, and recorded in the proper public
office; 2d, that the papers in that office, or some of them, have
been lost or destroyed; and, 3dly, he must support this proof
by showing, that within a reasonable time after the grant was
made, there was a judicial surve' of the land, and actual possession by him, by acts of ownership exercised over it.
The survey and possession are open and public acts, and
would support the parol evidence of its former existence and
destruction orloss. It would show the knowledge of the officers of the Government of the title claimed, and their acquiescence in the justice andlegality of the claim.
But without a survey and possession the authenticity of the
grant would hare nothing to support it but parol testimony,
resting only in the knowledge of individual witnesses; for if
what purports to be a grant is produced by the party from
some private receptacle, and the handwriting. of the official
signatures proved by witnesses, and even proved to have been
executed when it bears date, it is but parol testimony, open to
doubt, since its authenticity depends upon the truth or falsehood of the witnesses, instead of resting upon the certainty of
t-h-tpublic records of the nation.
We find nothing in the history of 'exican jurisprudence or
Mexican grants which would justify this court in supporting
a Mexican title made out by such testimony only, or by secondary evidence of any kind short of that above stated.
It will be found, upon referring to the various cases which

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

851

United States v. Castroet a7.

have come before us from California, that none have been con.
firmed, unless the grant was established according to the rules
of evidence above -stated. And they are recognised- in the
cases of the United1 States v. Fuertes, 22 How., 445; U. S. v.
Batton, 23 How., 841; U. S. v. Luco, 23 How., 615; and U.
S. v. Palmer, Cook, & Co., decided at the present term. We
repeat again these rules of evidence-because it would seem
from the case before us that the ]soard of land commissioners
and the Circuit Court regard written documentary evidence,
produced by a claimant from a private receptacle, and pr6ved
by oral testimony, as of-equal authenticity and entitled to equal
respect with the public and recorded documents found in the
public archives. But such a rule of evidence is altogether
inadmissible. It would make the title to lands depend upon
oral testimony, and consequently render them inseeure and
u rgtable, and expose the public to constant imposition and
fraud. Independently, therefore, of the strong presumptions
.against the authenticity of the paper produced as a grant, it
cannot upon principles of law be maintained, even if the testimony produced by the clainant was worthy of belief.
The case of Fremont v. th lUnited States is referred- to,
both in the opinion of the board of land commissioners and
the Circuit Cou'rt, and relied on to support their respective
opinions. But that case has no analogy to this. There the
title-papers, fiom the petition down to the grant, were found
inregular form in the Mexican archives. Their authenticity
was therefore attested by the record; and the reasons for the
delay in making the survey and taking possession were made
known at the time to the Governor, and approved and allowed
by him. All of this appeared in the regular official documents; and the difficulty that arose in his case arose upon the
conditions annexed by law to an undoubted and admitted
grant. Here the difficulty is, whether there is legal evidence
to prove that this alleged grant was ever made by the Mexican
authorities: And the fact that itwas so made must be established by competent evidence, -before any of the questions
Which arose'and were decided in Fremont's case can arise inthis.
-

SUPREME COURT.
Day et al. v. Was1hburn el al.

The authenticity-of the grant must first be ekablished before any question can arise upon the conditions annexed by
law to such grants, or co-cerning the certainty or uncertainty
of the boundaries specified in it. And in the case before us,
the grant itself not being maintained by competent testimony,
we need not inquire whether the conditions were complied
with, or the description of place and boundaries sufficiently
certain.
And for-the reasons above stated the judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the case remanded to the
District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition.

GEORGE W.

DAY, BOWEN MATLOCK, ISAAC

AND GEORGE W.

H.

FROTHINGIAM,

WARNER, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM

A. WASHBURN AND JOHN A. KEITH.
Where creditors, who were so upon simple contract debts, filed a bill in chancery
t-) set aside a deed made by the debtor as being fraudulent against creditors,
and other creditors came in as parties complainants, the court below was right
in ordering a pro rata distribution amongst all the creditors, none of them
having a judgment or other lien at law.
The complain'ants who. first filed the bill have no preference thereby over the
other creditors.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Indiana, sitting in equity.
*Washburn made an assignment of his property to Keith, for
the benefit of his cred]-tors.
Day and Matlock, and Frothinghani and Warner, citizens
of Ohio and New York, filed a bill in the Circuit Qourt of the
United States to set ' aside this deed as fraudulent. They alleged, as a reason for not sueing him at law, that he had no
property upon which a judgment would he a lien, nor any that
an execution would reach.
Other creditors of. Was-hburn, upon simple contract debts,
camie in by a supplemental bill, and applied to be admitted to
a distributive share of the assets.

