SUPREME COURT.
Vigel v. Naylor.

ments made by the libellants fr.the payment of wages and
provisions for the ship.
The ship-owners appeared, and answered; but it is unnecessary to state more particularly the facts in controversy between the parties, because the final decree of the Circuit
Court was for less than two thousand dollars, and consequently no appeal from its decree will lie to this court.
At the hearing in the District Court the libel was dismissed; but upon an appeal to the Circuit Court this decision
was reversed, and a decree passed by the Circuit Court in
favor-of the libellants for thb sum of $2,302.78, with leave to
the respondents to set off the balance due them for freight, if
theyshould elect to do so. Afterwards, the respondents appeared in court, and elected to set off this balance against the
sum decreed against them, which reduced the amount to
$1,071.27. But in making this election, the proctors for the
"sDondents stated in writing, and filed in the court, that the
eiection to set off was made iVithout any waiver of their right
to appeal from the decree. After this election was made, the
court, on the 31st of August, 1858, passed its decree in favor
of the libellants for -theabove-mentioned sum of $1,071.27,
with interest from July 20, 1858. This was the final decree
of the court, and the one fiom which the.appeal is taken; and,
as it is beloJr $2,000, no appeal will lie under the act of Congress. And neither the reservation of the respondents in
nanking their election, nor even the consent of both parties, if
that had appeared, will give jurisdiction to this court where
it is not given by law'
The appeal must therefore be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

SUSAN V'IGEL, PLAINTIF

IN ERROR, V. HENRY NAYLOR, ADMINISTRATOR OF GEORGE NAYLOR, DECEASED. -

On a petition for freedom, the petitioner proved that one Kirby had emancipated
all his slaves by will some immediately and sofe at a future day.
The petitioner, -in order to bring herself within -this category and show that

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Vigd,v. Naylor.
had been the slave of Kirby, offered to prove that her mother and brother and
sister had recovered their freedom by suits brought against George Naylor;
whose administrator, Henry Naylor, the defendant in the present suit.was;
and that it was very unusual to separate from the mother. a child so young as
the petitioner was at the time of Kirby's death.
Proofs of these circumstances were not allowed by the court below to go to the
jury. In this the court was in error.
The recoveries of the mother and sister against George Naylor ought to have
been allowed to go to the jury. They were not res inter alios atta. This case
distinguished from that of Davis v. Wood, 1 Wheaton, 6.

THIS case was brought up by writ .of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of. Columbia.
It was a petition for freedom filed by Susan Vigel, under
the circumstances which are stated in the opinion of the
court.
It was argued by Mr.Blair for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Bradley for the defendant.
Mr. Justice CATRO1N delivered the opinion of the court.
Susan Vigel sued Henry Naylor, administrator -of George
Naylor, by a petition for freedom in'the Circuit Court of this
District. He pleaded that she was his slave. On the trial of
this issue, she offered in evidence the will of John B. Kirby,
by which all his slaves over thirty-five years of age were
emancipated; and all those under that age were to be emancipated-the males at thirty-five, and the females .at thirty years
of age. This was allowed by an act of the Legislature of Mary land of 1796, ch. 67, sec. 13.
A witness testified on the petitioner's behalf, "that a few
(lays after the death of Kirby, which took place in 1828,
George Naylor brought to his house, where witness was then
at work, the petitioner, her mother, and her sister; and said
George Naylor stated to the witnesses at the time, that he
had brought said negroes from the residence of said Kirby;
and that the petitioner was then between six and eight years,
of age."
The petitioner then offered to prove that her brother Richard, and her mother Sarah, and her sister Eliza, had obtained
VOL. XXIV

14

SUPREME COURT.
Vigel v. AMaylor.

their freedom under the will of Kirby; that Sarah, the mother,
and Eliza, had recovered their freedom by suits brought
against George Naylor, which were defended by him. In the
one instituted by Sarah, judgment was rendered in 1838; and
that brought by Eliza was decided in her favor in 1842: The
petitioner also offered to prove that it is very unusual for children of the age of the petitioner at the time of Kirby's death
to be separated from their parents; but the court excluded
the testimony offered from the jury; to which exception was
taken.
The defendant then proved by two witnesses, that they had
known the petitioner from her birth, and that she was born
the property of George Naylor; and that she never was out
of his poss&ssion, or that of his successor and administrator.
[t is objected that no records of the verdicts and judgments
were offered to prove the recoveries." The bill of exceptions
states, generally, that she offered to prove the facts, but the
court refused to hear the evidence.
Transcripts of the records being the best evidence, and their
production necessary, it is manifest that the -offer to prove the
recoveries was not refused for the reason that the record evidence was absent, but because the recoveries were deemed
irrelevant, or that they were inter alios acta, and 'therefore incompetent as proof in the cause for any purpose. And the
first question is, was the evidence offered relevant, when taken
in connection with the parol evidence?
The girl was six or eight years old when George Naylor
brought her home in 1828, with her mother and sister,-from
the late residence of Kirby, -the testator. It was offered to be
proved, and we must take it to be true, that it could have been
,proved- that it was unusual to separate"the mother from a slavechild as young-as the petitioner was 'at the time Ki'iby's will
took effect.
If Sirah, the mother, Richard, the brother, and Eliza, the
sister, were the slaves of Kirby at his death, and acquired their
freedom under his will, does this, ciriumstance furnish evidence from which a jury might infer, in connection With other
evidence, that the petitic ker was also thd slave of Kirby when

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

211

V'ge v. Naylor.

he died, and entitled to her freedom on arriving at thirty years
of age? -Itis immaterial -whether the evidence offered and rejected was weak or strong to prove the fact. The question
is, .was itcompetent to go tothe jury? Castle v. Bullard, 23
How., 187. If so, it was for them to judge of its force and
effect. If this child had been only one year old or under
when Naylor got, possession of her and of her. mother, and
other children in company with her, the presumpton would
be stronger, that her condition and that of her mother was the
same, and both the slaves of Kirby, and were manumitted by
his will.
By the rejection of the evidence, the case was stripped of all
proof that Susan, the petitioner, ever belonged to Kirby, the
testator; whereas, had it been admitted, it would have proved
that Susan's mother, and her other children, belonged to the
estate of Kirby after his death, and were emancipated 'by his
will; aid having emancipated all his slaves, a presumption
could have been founded on this proof by the jury, that an
infant child of the same family was the slaie of Kirby also,
especially as Naylor brought the slaves as a family from Kirby's late residence.
2. Was the record of the judgment inter alios acid, and thernfore incompetent? •
. in the case of.Davi; v. Wood, (1 Wheat., 6,) it was held.by
this court that a judgment in favor of the mother establishing
her freedom against-Swan, a third person, could not be given
in evidence in a suit by the child of that mother as tending to
prove his freedom. On-the trial below, the petitioner oflered
to prove by witnesses; that they bad heard old persons, now
dead, declare that a certain Mary Davis; now ilso dead, was
a white woman, born in England, and such was the general
report in the neighborhood where she lived; and further offered to prove by the same kind of testimony, that Susan Davis, the mother of the petitioner, was lineally descended in
the female line from the said Mary; which evidence by hearsay and general reputation the court refused to admit, except
so far as it was applicable to the fact of the petitioner's pedi.
gree. And the ruling below this court affirmed.

SUPREME COU-RT.
Vigel v. Naylor.

There is no question arising in the cause before us involving the consideration to what extent hearsay evidence to prove
.the status of freedom is admissible, and therefore we refrain
from discussing the first point decided in Davis v. Wood. In
that case, Susan, the mother of John, was sold by Wood, the
defendant, to Caleb Swan; and she and her daughter, Ary,
who had likewise been sold, sued Swan for their freedom, and
recovered it. Thi§ record of recovery was offered in evidence
on behalf of John,~'but was rejected on the trial.
This court held, that "as to the second exception, the record
was not between the same parties. The rule is, that verdicts
are evidence between parties and privies. The court does not
feel inclined to enlarge the exceptions to this general rule, and
-theref re the judgment of the court below is- affirmed."
This is the judgment with which we have to deal. The difference--il the case under consideration and the one found in
I Wheat., is, that here Susan's mother and sister recovered
their freedom from Naylor, he being the defendant in both
actions. There the mother and daughter recovered their freedom from Swan, who had purchased them of Wood.
This court having cut off all evidence by hearsay and geperal reputation-ist, that the female ancestor of the petitioners
was a white English woman, and free; and 2d, that the record
of the recovery of freedom by John's mother and sister from
Swan was incompetent-of course the pelitioner had to go out
of eurt, having proved no case.
There the verdict was not between the same parties. Here
the suit was between George Naylor and the mother of Susan;
hs between the mother and Naylor, the verdict was conclusive
of her right to freedom; and Susan, the child, was a privy in
blood .to the mother, (being her heir, if free,) and as such heir,
comes within the rule laid down in Davis'v. Wood, and could
avail herself of that verdict as equally conclusive, if she could
further pro vie. that she was born after the impetration of the
mother's writ. Alexander v. Stokely, -7 Sergt. and t.., 300;
Pegram v. Isabell, 2 Hen. and M.; Chancellor v. Milton, 2 B.
Mojiroe, 25. Or, if she could prove that she was born after
Kirby'3 death, and that her -mother recovered her freedom

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

218

Vigel v. Naylor.

under his will--and which facts might have been established
by further proof-these circumstances could be let in as addi
tional evidence. 2 Hening and M., 211.
Owing to the -lapse of time since Mr. Kirby died, the petitioner sought to establish her case by circumstantial evidence.
It was rejected; for what particular reason, does not appear.
As already stated, we think the evidence offered had weight

enough in it to be pertinent, and ought therefore to have been
submitted to the jury. 23 How., 187.
How it was proposed to be proved that Richard was a free
man, and acquired his freedom under the will, does not appear;
but as to Eliza, the sister, a record of recovery by her of her
freedom against Naylor was offered as evidence, and rejected.
The record could have proved the existence of the verdict and
judgment as a FAcT, and the legal consequences flowing from
the fact, namely, that the petitioner, Eliza, was a free person.
As to George Naylor and his representative, her status of freedom is a conclusive fact. And what is the effect of the record
as respects other persons? Eliza sued George Naylor, declaring that she was free. He replied that she was his slave. She
had a verdict that she was free. By the verdict and judgment,
she took to herself all Naylor's title; it was vested in her as
Naylor had it. Harris v. Clarissa, 6 Yerge.'s Ten. R., 243.
He had had her in possession twelve years, and had title by
the act of limitations of six years, as to other contestants who
might set up claim to her as a slave. She can .rely on his title
as if he bad manumitted her; the record has this effect. It
stands on the footing that a recorded deed of manumission io
her from Naylor would stand, or that a recorded bill of sale
from him to a purchaser would stand. In either 'case, the
title-paper could be given in evidence to prove the title; and'
the title thus acquired must be deemed valid until some one
else legally establishes a better. This record evidence may be
used in any suit by a third person, where the evidence is pertinent, of which the court must judge from facts and circumstances appearing on the trial; and to this effect are the adjudications of the State courts generally. Pegram v. Isabell, in
Virginia, 2 Hen. and MNI., 210; Aexandcr v. Stokely, 7 Sergt

SUPREME COURT.
Davila v. Yiumford etal.

and R., 290, in Pennsylvania; Vaughan v. Phebe, Martin and
Y. R.,. 6, in Tennessee; Chancellor v. Milton, 2 B. Monroe's
R., 25, in Kentucky. In Maryland, no dea-ision is found on
the subject."
In the next place, the record operateson the status'of the
person; it sets him free or-pronounces him a slave, and binds
him by the verdict either way. Shelton v. Barbour, 2 Wash.
Va. R., 82..
In some of the States, the suit may be in equity, and the
status of freedom be established bya decree. Fisher'snegroes
v..Dobbs e t al., 6 Yerg., 119; Reuben .v. Paraish, 6 Humphrey's R., 122.
It is ordered that the judgment of .the Circuit Court be reversed, and the cause remanded for another trial.-

MIGUEL DAVILA, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR)' V: DAVIDMUMOBD AND
JESSE- MUNFORD.
The statute of limitations of Texas provides in its. fiteenth sectiorl, "that every
suit to be.instituted to recover real estate, as against 'im, her, or them, in
possession under title or color of title, shall be instituted- within three years
next after the cause of action shall have accrued, and not afterwards; but in
this limitation is not to be computed the duration of disability to sue from
the minority, coverture, or insanity of him, her, or them, having cause of
iaetion. By the term title, as used in this section, is meant a regular chain
of transfer from or under the sovereignty of the soil; and color of title is, constituted by a consecutive chain of such transfer down to him, her, or them,-in
possession, without being regular; as if one or more of the memorials or
muniments be not registered, or not duly registered, or be only in writing,
jr such like defect as may not extend to or'include the want of intrinsic
fairness and honesty; or when the party in possession shall hibld the saine
by a' certificate of head-right, land warrant, or land scrip, wi h a chain of
transfer down-to him, her, or them, ir possession; and provided, that this
section shall not bar the right of the Government."
&nd the sixteenth section provides, "that he, she, or they, who shall have had
five year like peaceable possession of real estate, cultivating, using, or enjoy:
ing the same, and paying tax thereon, if any, and claiming under a deed or
deeds'duly registered,shall be held to have full title, precluding all claims.
but shall not bar the Government; and, saving to the person" 6r persons hav

-

