SUPREME COURT.
Sturgis v. Boyer et al.

through the Judicial Department or any other department, to
use any coercive means to compel him.
And upon this ground the motion for the mandamus must
be overruled.

RUSSELL STURGIS, OLAIMANT OF THE STEAM-TUG HECTOR, HER
'TACKLE, &C., IMPLEADED WITH THE SHIP WISCONSIN, HER
TACKLE, &c., APPELLANTS, V. HERMAN BOYER, ALBERT WOODRUFF, AND JEREMIAH

R.

IROBINSON, OWNERS OF THE LIGHTER

REPUBLIC, LIBELLANTS.

In-a collision which took place in the harbor of New York, between a ship which
was towed along by a steam tug. to which she was lashed, and a lighter loaded
with flour, by which -the latter vessel was capsized, the evidence shows that
she was not in fault, and is entitled to damages. Neither the ship nor the
tug had a proper look-out, and being propelled by steam they could have governed their course, which the lighter could not.
Bdth the tug and tow were under the command of the master of the tug, who
gave all the orders. None of the ship's crew were on board except the mate,
who did not interfere with the management of the vessel, the persons on board
being all under the conmmand of a head stevedore. The tug must therefore be
responsible fbr the whole loss incurred.
rhe vessel must be responsible because her owners appoint the bfficers, and the
master of-the tug was their agent, and not the agent of the owners of the ship,
who had made a contract with him to remove the ship to her new position.
Some of the cases examined as to the distinction between principal and agent.
Cases arise when both the tow and the tug are jointly liable for the consequences
of a collisin i as whnfi those in charge of the respective vessels jointly participate in their control and management, and the master or crew of both vessels
are either deficient in skill, omit to take due care, or are guilty of negligence
in their navigation.
Other cases may.be supposed when the tow alone would be responsible; as when
the tug is employed by the master or owners of the tow as the mere motive
power to propel their vessels from one point to another, and both vessels are
exclusively under the control, direction, and management, of the master and
crew of the tow.
But whenever the tug, under the charge of her own master and crew. and in the
usual and. ordinary course of such an employment, undertakes to transport
antther vessel, which, for the time being, has neither her master nor crew on
board, from one point to another, over waters where such accessory motive
power is necessary, or usually employed, she must be held responsible for the
proper navigation of both vessels.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Sturgis v. Boyer et al.

was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.
It was a case of collision in the East river, at the southern
extremity of New York, between the ship Wisconsin, propelled by the steam-tug Hector, on the one hand, and the Republic on the other. The narrative of the case is given, in the
opinion of the court.
The District Court condemned the ship and tug both, the
claimants of which appealed to the Circuit Court by separate
appeals.
The Circuit Court affirmed the decree of the District Court
against the tug, to the amount of $2,364.74, with costs, but
dismissed the libel with costs as against the ship.
The claimant of the tug appealed to this court, and the
libellants appealed from the decree so far as related to the
ship, which they wished to hold responsible as well as the
tug. Both cases were argued together, and the opinion of
the court covered both.
THIS

It was argued by Mr C. A. Seward for the tug, Mr Wil.
liams for the Wisconsin, and Mr Benedict for the Republic.
It was a triangular war. Mr Seward contended that the Republic was in fault, but if not so, then the Wisconsin ought to
be responsible, and not the tug; Mr Williams contended that
the Wisconsin ought in no manner to be blamed, but if there
was fault upon that side, it was altogether owing to the tug;
whilst Mr Benedict was chiefly desirous to attach blame to
the Wisconsin, as being the most responsible party One
or two of the points made by thp respective counsel will be
given.
Mr Seward contendedI. There is no sufficient evidence tb charge the tug. The
lighter rmght have avoided the collision. She saw the ship
long before the collisio -long enough to avoid her, and should
have done so. But if not, then the ship alone, and not the tug,
was responsible for the collision.
I. The ship was under the direction of her owners at the

SUPREME COURT
Sturgm v. Boyer et al.

time. Next under them was their regular mate, who was on
board, and had the general charge of moving the ship. To
aid him, they sent on board Captain Ostrom, to take charge
of the ship, and ten or fifteen men to man the ship, of whom
he had charge, to do the labor, to unmoor the ship, and make
her fast to the tug, steer her, and then to pull and haul to
make her fast at her berth at Dover street. The owners sent
the tug to do the labor of pulling and hauling in the river.
there being a strong flood tide, and no wind. The captain of
the tug had charge of the ship, so far as transporting her in
the river. These were the three classes of servants of the
owners, co-operating in moving the ship-all of them in charge
for certain purposes. Of all of them, only one, the tug, is free
from blame for negligence, against her there is not an allegation of blame from any quarter
III. The mate of the ship was on board as. acting master to
move her, and ten orfifteen men were in the service of the
ship-"had enough m'eu on board to move the vessel." The
captain of the tug had charge of the ship only so far as transporting her in the river was concerned. The mate says. "I
was at work getting lines out, and ready to come alongside
the dock. I had a boss stevedore on board. He was sent
aboard to take charge of the ship, his name was William Ostrom. The captain of the ship was never on board when I
moved the ship. I have often moved the ship without him."
It was his duty as mate, acting as master, to see that good
watch and look-out was kept.
Actually on board the Wisconsin were the mate, Sinclair,
Captaii Ostrom, Phillips, and Brower, and ten or fifteen men.
Notip of them belonged to the tug except Brower. He was
there aft, that he might easily communicate with the ship and
tug. The rmate gave no proper attention, he was forward,
getting lines out. The most of the men were busy with him.
Captain Ostrom was on the quarter-deck, giving no proper
attention to his duty, though giving orders. The ship s man
was at- The wheel, but he is not produced as a witness. No
one saw the lighter, coming as she was, with sails up, in full
sight, at -high noon, till itwas too'late. The mate- saw her

DECEMBE.

TERM. 1860.

&urgzs.v. Boyer eal.

first, when she was but a short distance off, and her captain
was swinging his hat and singing out. The mate first gave
the alarm, when neither the lighter nor the tug could -do anything to avoid the collfsion, ushe himself says, for it was after
the ship had sheered into her berth, and the tug had stoppedher engine.
VII. The tug was not in fault; no negligence or mismanagement is alleged against her by any party or witness ii the
pleadings or proofs, and there should be no recovery agamst
her for the collision, and her little fee for hauling the ship
does not make her an insurer for the benefit of third parties.
If, by reason of her being lashed to -the ship, a decree must go
againstbotb, then, as they have answered and stipulated saparately, the decree. should be against the ship and her stipulators first, and contingently only against the tug and her
stipulators.
If there can be decree against one alone, then the decree of
the Circuit Court should be wholly reversed, the Wisconsin
condemned, and the Hector discharged.
Mr Williams, for the Wisconsin, made the following points.
I. In no view of the cdse can the ship be made respoinsible,
or her owners liable, for the damages sustained by the lighter.
Sproul v. Hemmingway, 14 Pick. Reps,, 71.
The Express, 1 Blatchford's -Reps., 365.
1. She wasilashed firmly to the side of the tug, and under
the exclusive command and directiou of the captain and officers of the tug. Neither the owners df the ship, nor any ot"
their servaits, nor yet her captain, nor any of her crew, had
any power over or control of the ship. She was exclusively
and immediately in the power of the tug, which was under
the exclusive charge, control, and sole direction, of her master.
Any act of the master or crew of the ship, had they all been
on board and in full command, could not, in the least, have
affected the course, speed, or movement of the ship, unless,
,indeed, the captain of the tug should first have been displaced,
ai.d ihe captain of the ship had .been appointed in his placedL fCt uat could have been done only by the owners of th6
VOL XXIV

9

SUPREME COURT
Sturgis v. Boyer et al.

tug, with the consent of the captain of the ship-a position
which may have been illy adapted to his capacity
I. To make the owners liable for such a collision would be
to establish an entirely new principle of law
1. It would not be an application of the principle, respondeas
superwr, lor in no sense can the eaptain and crew of the tug
be said to have been the ageits or servants of the owners of
the ship. They were in no sense under the control of, or
subject to the orders of, the owners of the ship. But, on the
other hand, they were the servants and agents, strictly the
employees, of the owners of the tug, and owed obedience, and
were amenable to no one else in the discharge oF their duties.
If the owners of the ship could be liable for the-misfeasance
or malfeasance of the captain or crew of the tug, it would
follow that the owners of the ship should have the right to
appoint and remove the captain and crew of the tug-a doctrine that would not be contended for; not only that, but it
must be established that they were appointed by, and held
their respective offices from, the owners of the ship.
Laugher v. Pointer, 5 B. and C., 553, 554.
Milligan v. Wedge, 12 A. and E., 737
Lucey r Ingrani, 6 'M.and W., 302.
McIntosh v. Slade, 6 B. and 0., 657
Nicholson v. Mouncey, 15 East., 384.
Lane v. Cotton, 1 Salk., 17, 15 Mod., 472 15 East., 392,
Cowp., 754.
Rapson v. Cabitt, 9 M. and W., 710, 6 Moor, 47, 2 D. and
R., 93.
Quarman r Burnett, 6 M. and W., 509, 510, per Park, B.,
9 M. and W., 713, 6 Esp. N. P C., 6 5 B. and 0., 559,
560, 4 M. and S., 29.
Randleson v. Murray, 8 A. and E., 109.
Storm v. Cartwright, 6 Term, 411, 3 Camp., 403, 5 B.
and C., 554, per Littledale, J., 5 M. and W., 414, 8 A.
and E., 835.
Fletcher v. Braddick, 2 N. R., 182, recognised, 5 B. and
C.. 556 7 Bing., 190, 4 M. and S., 288, 8 A. and E.,
842, q43.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860

115

Sturgzs v. Boyer et al.

Broom's Legal Maxims, 386, 387, 388, 389, and cases there
cited.
Story on Agency, sees. 453 a, 453 b, 453 e.
It is not easy to see why the owners of the ship should be
any more liable than the owners of the cargo. The cargo, if
heavy, contributes to the force of the blow given by the colliding vessel, which additional force may have occasioned the
one vessel to be cut down and sunk, rather than the other.
Take the case of a cargo of timber, a part of which projects
over the sides of the vessel, and is the very thing which gives
the blow that does the injury How could the liability of the
owner of such timber be distinguished in principle, on the one
hand, from the liability of the owners of flour stowed in the
hold, or, on the other band, from the liability of the owner
of a ship lashed fast to the side of the colliding vessel?
Sproul v. Hiemmiugway, 14 Pick. Reps., 71.
Fletcher v. Benedict, 5 Bos. and Pul., 182.
JIr Benedict, for the libellants, directed the first part of his
argument to show that somebody must pay, and then proceeded to argue that the ship was responsible, as well as the
tug.
9. The ship is clearly responsible -to the libellants for this
collision, they should not be deprived of her responsibility,
and compelled to resort to the tug alone.
The enterprise was the enterprise of the ship. The owner
of the Wisconsin was the duxfacti. lie was sending her from
Corlaer's Hook, foot of Grand street, to Dover street, for the
purpose of mooring her alongside the ship William Rathbone,
to discharge a cargo and take in another. She had on board
"the mate, helmsman, and a full complement of mariners."
There was no wind, and an adverse tide. She needed a propelling power, and she procured a tug to assist her, not to
command her, or her. officers, or men. All was the proper
business of the ship.
10. The owner of the ship furnished the tug, and sent her
to time ship, for the purpose of "assisting to move her " The
mate was acting master, and Captain Ostrom and mariners

116

SUP14EME COURT.
Sturgis v. Boyer et al.

were on board for the general purpose of "moving the ship."
"Ostrom was sent aboard to take charge of the ship." They
were all of them, including the tug,-servants of the owners of
the ship, each, in his own way, acting in such service in the
line of his duty They were all agents of the-ship, acting in
the course of their agency If any of them were negligent, it
was the negligence of the ship.
11. The captain of the tug was on board the ship, and, if
he was master of the ship pro hac vwe, le was appointed by
the owners. For the purpose of getting-tnder way, and moving, and mooring at the end, and steering her, and keeping a
lookout, Captain Ostrom had charge, and the mate had charge
as master. The ship must be steered by her own helm, except that in cases of difficulty the helm of the tug must be
used to assist; it is too-small to control. The look-out must
be on board the ship, because the ship was ahead. Th tug
was small, and did not reach the ship s bows, within one-third
of the ship s length. The tug was behind, at one side, and
down below, so that she could not look out.
"The ship was 880 tons, was one-third ahead of tug; the
rudder of the ship is used to steer the tow, the rudder of the
tug is always midship, unless, in case of emergency, to make
a short turn, when rudder of tug -is also used, I had a boss
stevedore on board, he was sent on board to take charge of
the ship, his name -was William Ostrom."
12. The tug was on board the ship. She was firmly fastened to her, alongside, and was, for the- time being, a part of
her, as much as the machinery and side paddle-wheels of the
tug were on board or a part of the tug. They were all
fastened on the outside of the hall, to act as motive power.
13. The ship was the:actual cause of the injury Th6 tug
did not touch or injure the lighter; the ship alone struck her.
The actual collision was out of sight and out of reach of the
tug.

The negligence of the ship, and of those on board, and. in
charge of her, caused- the collision, they did not see the
lighter because They had. no look-out who was- carefut or
efiient.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Slmwy

117

v. Bojer el al.

"On the ship were the mate, Sinclai', three captams-Ostrom,
Phillips, Brower-and ten or fifteen men, all but Brower beIo~ged on the ship. The mate gave no attention. He was
getting lines out. The most of the men were busy with him,
the three captains were together on the quarter-deck. The
ship's man at the wheel is not produced as a witness. No
one saw the lighter till it was too late. The mate saw her
first; her captain swinging his hat, and singing out. The
matd first gave the alarm, when the lighter could do nothing
to avoid the" collision."
14. At the time of the accident the tug was still. She was
shut off at Catharine ferry; her :function bad ceased. The
ship's company were sagging her into her berth before they
saw the lighter. The ship was going by her own momentum.
While the tug was propelling her, she went four or five .knots
an hour; at the time of the. collision, much'less.
15. When a ship is sent through a crowded public harbor,
her owners; are bound to provide her with all the necessary
means, implements, and agencies, of the most skillful, reliable, and trustworthy character, for the safety of other vessels,
and, if any of them fail, and thereby another is injured, the
ship herself is responsible, and if, instead of owning, they
hire anchors or sails which are insufficient, of boats to haul,
or persons to navigate her who were unskillful -or negligent,
the law does, not excuse the ship, and turn the injured party
over to the broken -anchor, the old suit of sails, or the irresponsible mariners, or the badly-managed boat.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court,
This is an appeal in admiralty from a decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of New
York, in a cause of collision, civil and maritime. It was a
proceeding in rem against the ship Wisconsin and the steamtug flector, and was instituted in the District Court on the
twenty-sixth day of October, 1855, by the owners of the lighter
Republic They allege ii the libel,.that the lighter, on the
fifteenth day of October, 1855, started from pier six, in East
river, in the port of New York, laden -with flour, which was

SUPREME -COURT
turgis v. Boyer et al.

iu their possession as common carriers, to proceed up the
river to the foot of Dover street, in the same port; that she
had a competent crew on board, but that the wind being light,
she was propelled exclusively by oars, and was moving through
the water only at the rate of a mile an hour; that when she
arrived at a point nearly opposite the place of her destination,
she was headed towards the pier or wharf for which she started,
and while in that position, that the ship Wisconsin, in tow of
the steamboat Hector, and lashed to the starboard side of the
tug, came down the river, and was so negligently managed
that the flying jib-boom of the ship struck the lighter and capsized her, causing her cargo to roll into the water, and damaging The flour and the lighter to the amount of two thousand
and one hundred dollars. Negligence, want of care and skill
on the part of those an charge of the tow, are alleged to have
been the cause of the collision; and the libellants also allege
that the ship and steam tug W.ere incompetently manned, tha*
they had no proper look-out, and that those in charge of them
disregarded the warnings of the lighter, and did not in due
time stop and back the engine of the tug, or shear the tow so
as to avoid the lighter, as they were bound to have done.
Process was issued against the ship and the tug, and the
claimants of the respective vessels subsequently appeared, and
filed separate answers to the several allegations of the libel.
Both answers affirm that the collision was occasioned through
the fault of those in charge of the lighter, but in most other
respects they are essentially variant. On the part of the steam
tug, it is alleged that she was employed by the owners of the
ship to tow her from the foot of Water street to the pier at the
foot of Dover street, and that the tug was merely the motive
power to move the ship to the pier, and that the tug and her
crew were subject to, and obeyed the orders of, the master and
other officers in charge of the ship. Wherefore, the claimant
prays that, in case the libellants recover any sum against the
ship and tug, he may have a. decree against the ship and her
owners for such proportion of the same as he may be made
liable to pay But the clainiants of the ship allege that she
wvasin the charge-and under the control and management of

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Sturgs v. Boyer et al.

the master and crew of the steam tug. Thiey admit in the answer that her mate, helmsman, and a full complement of martners, were on board, but aver that they were all under the direction and control of the master and officers of the steam tug
to which she was lashed. Testimony was taken on both sides,
and after a full hearing in the District Court, a decree was entered in favor of the libellants against the ship and the steam
tug. From that decree the claimants of each of those vessels
appealed to the Circuit Court, and the cause was there again
heard upon the same testimony After the hearing, the Circuit Court affirmed the decree of the District Court against
the tug, but dismissed the libel with costs as against the ship.
Whereupon the claimants of the tug appealed to this court,
and the libellants also appealed from so much of the decree as
pronounced the ship not liable.
At the argument in this court, it was conceded that the
flying jib-boom of the ship struck the peak haliards of the
lighter, and capsized her, causing the cargo, which consisted
of four in barrels, to roll into the'water, and no question was
made that the damages had not been.correctly estimated. According to the testimony in the case, the lighter was bound
up the river, and she was propelled exclusively by. oars or
sweeps. Her eourse was on the northern side of the stream,
some two hundred yards from the shore. She was mving
about q mile an hour, and the collision occurred at midday,
and in fair weather. As alleged in the pleadings, the ship
was bound down the river, and she was securely lashed, in
the usual manner, to. the starboard side of the steam tu2.
Neither the ship nor, tng had any proper look-out, and it
clearly appears that those in charge of them did not see the
lighter till it was too late to adopt the necessary precautions
to prevent a collision. Their course dbwn the i:iver was about
the -same distance from the northern shore as that of the
lighter, and, both vessels were propelled by the steam-power
of the tug. They were bound to a point, alongside of another
ship, lying at the end of pier twenty-seven, and the lighter
was bound to pier twenty-eight, a short distance up the river.
None of these facts are disputed, and the testimony clearly

SUPREME COURT.
Stur mqv. Boyer et al.

shows that the lighter first changed her course, and headed
towards tAp
tier to which she was bound. When the lighter
changed her course,. and headed for the pier, the ahip was so
fr-distant that, if she had kept her course, the lighter would
have passed to the pier in safety Nothing appearing in the
river to obstruct the view, those in charge of the lighter had
a right to assume that she was seen by those navigating the
approaching vessels, and that they would hold their course or
keep out of the way Propelled as they were by steam-power,
those in charge of them could readily govern their course and
control their movement. More difficulty, however, would
have attended any such effort on the part of the lighter. It
was then about slack high-water, the current still runfiing up
it little out in the stream, butthe tide had commenced to ebb
close in shore, so-that the flour, after it rolled into the water,
-1foated down the river. Until the lighter turned towards the
pler,she hiad been aided in lr course by the current, but,
*hen, she changed her course, and headed towards the pier,
she:was rather impeded than benefited by the tide. Those in
chauge -Qf her saw the ship -and tug approaching, and hailed
those on board, apprising them of the danger of a collision.
There were three men belonging to the lighter; two were
forward at the oars, and o.ne was aft, and it does not appear
that they omitted anything in their power to do to avoid the
disaster. On the other hand, it does appear thas the descending vessels were without any lbok-out, and that those in charge
of them did not see the lighter in season to adopt the necessary precaut'ons to prevent the -collision. Beyond question,
it was the mate of the.ship who first saw the lighter, and he
admits that she was then heading square into the slip; and
was using two oars. He had no charge of the ship, and it
does not appear that he, in any manner, interfered with her
navigation from the time she left her mooring until she reached her place of destination. When the hail was given from
the lighter, lie was employed in getting the lines ready to' send
ashore, as soon as the ship should arhve at the proper place.
Al of the orders were given by the master of the tug, which
'Had been employed by the owners of the ship to transport he:

DECEMBERt. TERM, 1860.

123

Sturgs v. Boyer et al.

from her moorings to pier twenty-seven, for the purpose of
discharging what merchandise she had on board, and taking
in another cargo. They had also employed a head stevedore
to. discharge her cargo, and reload her; and, in point of fact,
all the men on board, except the mate, were the hands in the
employment of the principal stevedore, not one of whom belonged to the crew of the ship. Her master was not on board,
and, contrary to the allegation of the answer, the testimony
shows that she was without a crew One of the stevedores
was at the wheel of the ship, but both vessels were exclusively
under the command and direction of the nia~ter of the tug.
Prior to the collision, and when the pilot of the tug gave the
signal to slow, the master of the tug left his own vessel and
went on to the ship, and all the subsequent orders were given
by him, while standing on the quarterdeck of the latter vessel. "My attention," says the mate of the ship, "was first called
to the lighter by a, hail from one of her men." He was the
-first person on the descending vessels who saw the ligbter,
and he at once gave notice.to the master of the tug. They
were then sp near, that the mate says he anticipated a collision, and, considering the headway of the ship, he was unable to see how it.could be avoided. True it is, the master of
the tug testifies that the ship had no headway at the time of
the collision, but the weightof the testimony is greatly otherwise. No doubt is entertained that he gave the- orders to
stop and back before the collision occurred, but the circumstances clearly show that those orders were too late to have
the desired effect.
Looking at all the facts and circumstances in the case, we
thimn the libellants are clearly entitled. to a decree in their
favor; -and the only remaining-question of any importance is..
whether the ship and the stean:tug are both liable for. the
consequences of the collision, .or if not, which of the two
ought to be held responsible for the damage sustainedbl the
libellants. Cases arise, undoubtedly, when both the tow and
the tug are jointly liable for the consequences of a collision;
as wlicii those in charge of the respective vessels jointly, participate ii their control and mallagoneent, and .the master or

SUPREIE COURT.
Sturgzs v. Boyer et al.

crew of both vessels are eit'her deficient in skill, omit to take
due care, or are guilty of negligence in their navigation.
Other cases may well be imagined when the tow alone would
be responsible, as when the tug is employed by the master or
owners of the tow as the mere motive power to propel their
vessels from one point to another, and both vessels are exclusively under the control, direction, and management, of the
master and crew of the tow Fault in that state of the case
cannot be imputed to the tug, provided she was properly
equipped and seaworthy for the business in which she was
engaged, and if she was the property of third persons,. her
owners cannot be held responsible for the want of skill, negligence, or mismanagement of the master and crew of the other
vessel, for the reason that they are not the agents of the owners of the tug, and her owners in the case supposed do not
sustain towards those intrusted with the navigation of the
vessel the relation of the principal. But whenever the tug,
under the charge of her own master and crew, and in the
usual and ordinary course of such aii employment, undertakes
to transport another vessel, which, for the time being, has
neither her master nor crew on board, from one point to another, over waters where such accessory motive power is
necessary or usually employed, she must be held responsible
for the proper navigation of both vessels, anld third persons
suffering damage through tle fault of those in charge of the
vessels must, under such circumstances, look to the tug, her
master or owners, for the recompense which they are entitled
to clatmi for any injuries that vessels or cargo may receive by

such means. Assuming that the tug is a suitable vessel, properly manned and equipped for the undertaking, so that no
degree of negligence can attach to the owners of the tow, oi
the ground that the motive power employed by them was in
an unseaworthy condition, and the tow, under the circumstances supposed, is no more responsible for the consequences
of a collision than so much freight; and it is not perceived
that it can make any difference in that behalf, that a part, or
even the whole of the officers and crew of the tow are on
board, provided it clearly .appears that the tug was a sea=

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

128

Sturgzs v. Boyer et al.

worthy vessel, properly manned and equipped for the enterprise,.and from the nature of the undertaking, and the usual
course of conducting it, the master and crew of the tow were
not expected to participate in the navigation of the vessel,
and were not guilty of ainy negligence or omission of duty by
refraining from such participation. Vessels engaged in commerce are held liable for damage occasioned by collision, on
account of the complicity direct or indirect, of their owners,
or the negligence, want of care, or skill, on the part of those
employed in their navigation. Owners appoint the master
and employ the crew, an(l consequently are held responsible
for their conduct in the management of the vessel. Whenever, therefore, a culpable fault is committed, whereby a collision ensues, that fault is imputed to the- owners, and the
vessel is just as much liable for the consequences as if it bad
been committed by the owner himself. No such consequences follow, however, when the person committing the
fault does not. in fact, or by implicatibn of law, stand in the.
relation of agent to the owners. Unless the owner and the
person or persons ii charge of the vessel in some way sustain
towards each other the relation of principal and agent, the
injured party cannot have his remedy against the colliding
vessel. By employing a tug to transport their vessel from
one point to another, the owners of the tow do not necessarily
constitute the master md crew of the tug their agents in performing the service. They neither appoint the master of the
tug, or ship the crew iior can they displace either the one
or the other. Their contract for the service, even though it
was negotiated with the master, is, in legal colitemplation,
made with the owners of the vessel, and the master of the tug,
notwithstanding the contract was negotiated with him, continues to be the agent of the owners of his own vessel, and
I hey are responsible for his acts in her navigation. Sproul v.
Ilemmingway, 14 Pick., 1, 1 Pars. Mar. L., 208. The Brig
James Gray v, the John Frazer et al., 21 How., 1.84.
Very nice questions may, and often do arise, says Judge
Story, is to the person who, in the sense of the rule, is to be
deemed the principal or employer in particular cases: Story

SUPREME COURT.
Sturgms v. Boer et al.

on Agency, see. 443 a, p. 557 Where the'owner of a carriage
hired of a stable-keeper a pair of horses for a day, furnishinZ
his own carriage, and the stable-keeper provided the driver,.
through whose negligent driving an injury was done to the
horse of a third person, the judges of the King's Bench were
equally divided upon the question, whether the owner of the
carriage or the owner of the horses was liable for the injury
Laugher r,. Pointer, 5 Barn. and Cress., 547 But the better
opinion maintained by the more recent authorites is, that the
driver should be regarded as the servant of the stable-keeper,
and inasmuch as he could not at the same time be properly
deemed the servant of both parties, that the stable-keeper, and
not the temporary hirer, was responsible for his negligence.
Upon the like ground, says the same commentator, the hirer
of a wherry, to go from one place to another, would not be
responsible for the waterman, nor the owner of a ship, chartered fbr a voyage on the ocean, for the misconduct of the
crew employed by the charterer, provided the terms of the
charter party were such as constituted the charterer the owner
for the voyage. Quarian v. Burnett, 6 Mee. and Wels., 499;
Randleson v. Murray, 8 Adol. and Ellis, 109, Milligan v.
Wedge, 12 Adol. and Ellis, 737, The Express, 1 Blatch. C.
C., 365. *Whether the party charged ought to be held liable,
is made to depend in-all cases of this desci'iption upon his relation to the wrong-doer If the wrongful act was done by
himself, or was occasioned by his negligence, of course lie is
liable, andl he is equally so, if it was done by one towards
whom he bore the relation of principal, but liability ceases
where the relation itself entirely ceases to exist, unless the
wrongful act wvas perfirmed or occasioned by the party charged.
It was upon this principle that the ship was held not liable in
the case of the John Frazer, 21 Tow., 194. In that case, this
court said, the mere fact that one vessel strikes and damages
another does not, of itself, make her liable for the injury, but
the collision must, in some degree, be occasioned by her fault.
A vessel properly secured may, by the violence of a storm, be
driven from her moornigs.and forced against another vessel,
in spite of her efforts to avoid it, and yet she certainly would

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Palma-el a v. United States..

not be liable for damages which it was not in her power to

prevent. So, also, ships at sea, from storms or darkness of the
weather, may come in collision with one another without fault
on either side, and in that case each must bear its own loss,
although one is much more damaged than the other. Stains
back etal. v. Rae et al., 14 How., 532. Applying these principles to the present case, it is obvious what the result- must
be. Without repeating the testimony, it will be sufficient to
say, that it clearly appears in this case that those in charge of
the steam tughad the exclusie control, direction, and management, of both vessels, and there is not a word of proof in
the record, either that the tug was not'a suitable vessel to
perform the service for which she was employed, or that any
one belonging to the ship either participated in the navigation, or was guilty of any degree of negligence whatever in the.
premises.
Counsel on both sides stated, at the- argument, that they
were -prepared to discuss a question of jurisdiction supposed
to be involved in the record, but upon its being suggested by
the court that the question was not raised either by the evidence,-or in the pleadings, the point vas abandoned. In view
of the whole case, we think the decision of the Cirouit Court
was correct, and -the decree is accordingly affirmed, with
costs.

JOSEPH C. PALMER, CHARLES W COOK, BETHUEL PHELPS, AND
DEXTER R. WRIGHT, APPELLANTS, V. THE UNITED STATES.
An instrument of writing purporting to be a grant of land in California by Pio
Pico, in 1846, is not sustained by the authority of the public archives or in
conformity with the regulations of 1828, and therefore comes -within the previous-decisions of this court, declaring such grants void. Mforeover, the evidence in the case shows that the alleged grant 'was utterly
fraudulent.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court,

