SUPREME COURT.
\ Pearceet al. v. Page et al.

our opinion that the District Court erred in refusing to receive
evidence to impeach the deed for fraud.
The plaintiff objected to the introduction of the deed to
Von Roeder as testimony, because it was not shown that there
was such a corporation as the German association, and because
a letter of attorney to Dressel was not exhibited. The deed
was admissible, because it appeared that the defendants held
their possession under it. But whether it was sufficient evidence of title in the German Emigration Company, or of
transfer to the defendants, were questions which it was competent to the court to determine in its instructions to the
jury. It appears from the charge that the decision of the
court was favorable to the plaintiff. He, consequently, has
no cause for complaint upon his exceptions to the competency
of the evidence.
For the errors we have noticed the judgment of the District
Court is reversed, and the cause remanded for further pro.
ceedings.

CHRISTOPHER G. PEARCE AND OTHERS, INCORPORATED AND ACTING UNDER THE NAME OF THE NILES WORKS, APPELLANTS,
JESSE W.

i.

PAGE AND OTHERS, CLAIMANTS OF THE STEAMBOAT

DOCTOR ROBERTSON.

In a collision which took place in the Ohio river between a steamboat ascending
and a flat-boat descending, .the steamboat was in fault.
When a floating boat follows the course of the current, the steamer must judge
of its course, so as to avoid it. This may be done by a 5roper exercise of
skill, which the steamer is bound to use.
Any attempt to give a direction to the floating mass on the river would be likely
to embarrass the steamer, and subject it to greater hazards. A few strokes
of an engine will be sufficient to avoid any float upon the river which is
moved only by the current, and this is the established rule of navigation.

Tmis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Kentucky, sitting in admiralty.
It was a libel filed in the District Court of Kentucky by
Pearce and others against the steamboat Doctor Robertson,

DEOEMBEIR TERM, 1860.

229

Pearce etal. v. Page et at.

for the loss of certain castings, which the libellants had ship
ped on board of a flat-boat, sunk by collision with the steamboat on the Ohio river.
The District Court dismissed the libel, as not being sustained by the proofs.
This decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court, and the
libellants appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Lincoln for the appellants, and by Mr.
Phillips upon a brief filed by himself and Mr. Nicholson for the
appellees.
The arguments'would -be difficult to be explained without
aiagrams and a full report of the testimony.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a libel filed by Christopher G. Pearce et al., incorporated and acting under the iame of "Niles Works," and by
virtue of the statute of the State of Ohio, passed May 1, 1852,
entitled "An act to provide for the creation and regulation of
incorporated companies in the State of Ohio," against the
steamboat Doctor Robertson, her tackle, apparel, engine, and
furniture, and all persons intervening for their interest in the
same, in a cause of collision, civil, and maritime.
The libellauts were the owners of a, large amount of iron
castings, made for and -intended as sugar-mill machinery,
which was at the time of the said collision in a flat-boat, well
manned and equipped, and -which was being navigated on the
Ohio river, and in the usual mode'of navigating such craft,
and near the Illinois shore, and along the side of the Cincinnati tow-head, about twenty-five 'feet therefrom, and had
crossed over from the Kentucky-side, and was at the time in
Cull view of the Doctor Robertson and her pilot.
The libel states that on the eighth day of August, 18"56. at about
eight o'cloJk in the forenoon of tlEat day, and while the said
aat-boat was being navigated as aforesaid, the said steamboat,
Doctoi Robertson, approached her, coming up the river, and
having a lighter in tow, with full speed; and although the flat-

SUPREME COURT.
Pearceet al. v. Page et aZ.

boat was in full view of her pilot, and there was ample room
for the said steamboat to pass to the left of, and between her
and the Cincinnati bar, which- lay between the flat-boat and
the Illinois shore, yet the said steamboat endeavored to iuii
between the said flat-boat and the said towhead, and ran
herself and the said lighter with great force.directly into and
upon the said flat-boat, and broke in the sides thereof, and
caused the flat-boat immediately to sink in about twenty feet
of water, and so injured itas to render it entirely useless.
It happens in this case, as in all other cases of collision, that
the witnesses on the respective boats are somewhat contradictory in their statements. It is admitted, that in ascending
the Ohio river, some fifty or sixty miles below Cincinnati, the
steamboat Doctor Robertson, a stern-wheel boat, of fifty tons
burden, in passing up the river, near the place called the Cincinnati tow-head, while running close to the Kentucky shore,
being from one to two miles below, in full vibw of the defendants' flat-boat, which was freighted with sugar-mills, and other
machinery, for the Western trade; and. that the flat-boat, being put in the course of the current, floated down. the river,
her stern and front oars not in use, but laid on the -boat,
without any effort by the -hands on the flat-boat, continued to.
float with the current, until it, came into collision with the
ascending steamboat. That this boat, to avoid a snag that
projected some distance into the river, changed her course, by
which means she came into collision with the flat-boat, which
was immediately sunk in water near fifteen feet deep.
There .seems to have been little or no effort made to avoid
this collision by those who had the command of-the flat-boat.
There were two other fiat-boats lashed together, which followed the first boat at a distance of some two or three hundred yards; and they, perceiving that a collision was likely
to occur, used their oars, so as to avoid the ascending steamboat. Under this state of facts, the question of fault arises.
The defendants' flat-boat was ninety-six feet in iength, and
feet in breadth, with an oar or sweep in the front
some
and rear parts of the boat, so that some direction might be
given to it. But this 'movement cannot be relied on when

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Pearceetal. v. Page

at.

the colliding boats are near to each other. The flat-boat-was
heavily laden, and occupied near a hundred feet in a somewhat
rapid current, and the only means of removing it out of the
direction of the steamboat was, by working the end oars across
the current. This could not be done successfully, unless the
'boats were so far apart, as by a diagonal movement to secure
the aid of the current in escaping a collision.
But what is the law of the river on this subject, in regard to
floating flat-boats and steam vessels? The self-moving power
must take the responsible action. This cannot alwav s bedone, even with a fair wind, by a sailing vessel, .asitmay suddinly change, or 6e subject to accident. But steam- is generally under the control of the will of the engineer, and he is
responsible for a proper use of it.
Schyler 0. Barnet says he was passenger on the Doctor
Robertson, and that five or six miles below Shawneetown she
came in collision with a-flat-boat, loaded with sugar-mill ma
chinery, at about nine or ten o'clock of a clear morning; the
flat-boat had come over the reef, and had straightened down
the river,. and was about one hundred feet from the tow-head,
the witness sitting hAlf an hour -on the. boiler-deck of the
steamer before the collision, the steamer running about fifty
feet from the Kentucky shore, on the larboard side; she had
a lighter in-tow, and when she approached very .near the flatboat she turned out S little from the shore to avoid a snag
just above her, but kept on until the lighter struck the flatboat, when the bow of the steamer was some fifty or sixty
feet -below the tow-head; the lighter struck the flat-boat, and
rauhalf-wiy over it, which caused the flat-boat to sink.
And the witness says, that on the-part of the flat-boat nothing could have, been done, as she was lying. in the best possible position.. Since 1824, the -witness states, he has been
boating oh the river, and thai the general custom has been,
and now is, "for steamboats to give the way for flat-boats to
pass."
Alexander Ford has been on the river ten or twelve years,
and a pilot for three years. The flat-boat was lying nearly
straight with the tow-head, about one hundred and fifty yards.

SUPREME COURT.
Pearceet al. v. Page et al.

more or less, above the foot of it, and about twenty-five or
thirty yards from the Kentueky shore. The Doctor Robertson
aimed to go. on the starboard side of the fiat-boat, when the
barge which the Robertson had in tow struck the flat-boat,
and sunk her. He thinks the Robertson had stopped her engine, which, if it had been done in time, the boats would not
have come together. He says there was plenty of room to
pass outside of the fiat-boat. The witness says "that he supposed the Robertson could pass on either side of the flat-boat.
The flat-boat was not easily turned out of line. The boats in
approaching each other were in full view a mile and a half. It
is customary for a steamboat to give way to a flat-boat. The
steamboat takes either side of the descending flat-boat, so as
to avoid it. Ford's boat was from seventy-five to one hundred
and twenty-five yards above the machinery boat when he perceived that the steamboat would run into the flat-boat."
The witnesses generally concurred in saying, that the steamboat could have run to the Kentucky shore until the flat-boat
had passed, or could have run on the Illinois side of -theflatboat. In the language of John Walker, a witness, "the
steamboat could have either gone to the shore or run closer to
the shore, or she might have gone entirely outside of the fiatboat; and he does not think those persons on the flat-boat
could have done anything to have prevented the collision."
Witness thinks there was one hundred to one hundred and fifty
yards of river on the Illinois side.
William P. Lameth, for the last fifteen years, has acted as
steamboat captain, and he says, "it is the usual custom for
steamboats to examine the position of the flat-boats, and to
take The best possible course io avoid them, on either side
that seems best. If danger is apprehended, it is usual to ring
a slow bell, and run easy. If danger be apparent, the boat
should land or stop entirely) and let the flat-boat pass."
John F. Farrell says, "it ,is the duty of a flat-boat to
straighten itself in the river, ease its oars, and pursue the
course with the current, and the steamboat must avoid hter."
The snag in the river, Douglass says, w as Qne hundred feet
above ,the bow of the steamer when the boats struck. The

DECEMBER TERMI, 18.60.
Thompvson Ct al. v. Roberts et al.

two other flat-boats were, when the steamer struck the flatboat, one hundred and fifty yards above the colliding boats,
and the witness, Douglass, thinks the steamboat could have
passed, if all the flat-boats had kept their places. The stern
of the flat-boat was sixteen feet under water.
Several witnesses called by the steamer seem to think that the
flat-boat was bound to avoid the steamer; but such a rule would
be unreasonable, and would increase the risk of navigation.
When a floating boat follows the course of the current, the
steamer ifust judge of its course, so as to avoid it. This may
be done by a proper exercise of skill, which the steamer is
bound to use. Any attempt to give a direction to the floating
mass on the river would be likely to embarrass-tht, steamer,
and subject it to greater hazards. A few strokes of an epgine
will be sufficient to avoid any float upon the river which is
moved only by the current; and this, I understand, is the established rule of navigation.
We think the steamer was in fault in not avoiding the flatboat, on which ground the judgment of the Circuit Court is
reversed.
WILLIAm THOmpSoN AND JoHIN PICKELL, PL&nmrFFs "N ERROR,
v. LEWIS ROBERTS, GIDEON R. BURBANK, AND ADDISON ROBERTS.
The general rule of law is, that the judgment of a court of law or a debree of i
court of equity, directly'upon the sam6 point and between the same parties,
is good as a plea in bar, and conclusive when given in evidence in a subsequent suit.
Where the court left it to the jury to say whether the defence niade at law was
the same which was made in a prior equity suit, this error, if it be one, does
not invalidate the judgment of the court below.
The parties to the suit at law having been parties to the suit in eqiuity, the subject-matter and defence being the same, it is not a sufficient objection to the

introduction of the record in the equity suit that other persons were parties to
the latter.
No good reason can be given why the parties to the suit at law who litigated the
same question. should not be concluded by the decree because others, having'
an interest in the question or subject-matter, were admitted by the practice of
a court of chancery to assist on both sidez.

