DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Gaines v. Hennen.

and misleading. But that theory is wholly without support
from anything that appears in thd record, and, in point of fact,
is directly contradicted by what does appear. To sustain that
remark it is only necessary to refer to the declaration, where.
it is alleged that tife plaintiff was detained in prison for the
space of seven days, and the minutes of the proceedings before
the magistrate show that he was so detained as the necessary
consequence of his own request for delay, and the neglect on
his part to offer any satisfactory security for his aptearance at.
the time appointed for the examination, Those minutes were
introduced by the plaintiff; and in the absence of any proof to
the contrary, it must be assumed that they speak the truth.
In view of the whole case, we think the charge of the court to.
the jury was correct, and that there was no error in the record.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore ,ffirmed, with
costs.

MYRA CLARK GAINES, APPELLANT, V. DuNcAN

N. HENNEN.

Since the case of Mrs. Gaines was before this .cofirt, as reported in 12 Howard, 537, the olographic will made by Daniel Clark, in .1813, was ordered by
the Supreme Court of Louisiana to be admitted to probate, notwithstanding
its loss.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of that State is coincident with the con
clusions of this court upon the testimony which related to the execution by
Mr. Clark of his olographic will of 1813, and of the concealment or destruction of it after his death.
This will declared Mrs. Gaines to be his legitimate and only daughter, and
universal legatee.
In the bill filed by Ms. Gaines to iecover the property sold by the executors
appointed by a former will of 1811, it was not necessary to make these executors parties. The reasons stated.
It was not necessary formally to set aside the will of 1811 before proceeding under that of 1813. Any one who desired to contest this latter will in a
direct action was not concluded from doing so.
I'he title of Mrs. Gaines is not barred by prescription, as defined by the law
bf Louisiana. The reasons explained." .
•he decision of this court in 12 Howard, 473, did not overrule the decision iii
6 Howard, 550. The two cases explained. - .
The case in 12 Howard cannot be set up as a defence in the present case as.

554

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

being resjudicata. They are dissimilar as to parties and things sued for, or
what is called the object of the judgment.
The paper misnamed the ecclesiastical record, purporting to be an acquittal
of Des Grange of bigamy, is not admissiile evidence in this case. But if it
was so, it would neither of itself, nor in connection with all that is evidence in
the record, serve to prove the adulterous bastardy of the complainant, as the
rule of evidence requires that to be done, in opposition to the testamentary
declaration of her father, in his own-handwriting, that she was his legitimate
and only daughter, and, as such, by him constituted his universal legatee.
The charge of adulterous bastardy, as made by the defendant, is not in response
to the complainant's bill, but is an affirmative allegation of a fact by them,
and the burthen of proof is upon them to establish it in contradiction to the
declaration of her father, in his written will, that she was his legitimate child
The paper or record, as called, is not that of a legally-constituted tribunal,
according to either the ecclesiastical usaiges or the laws of Spain, as they prevailed in Louisiana at any.time when that province was a part of the do.minion of Spain. And neither the -Canon Hasset, the Alcalde Caisergues,
nor the Notary Franco Bermudez, had either individual or conjoined authority to take cognizafice of a charge of bigamy in the way it was done.
The difference explained between the case now before the court and that which
was heretoibre presented. If it had been proved, which it never was, that
Mrs. Gaines was the offspring of an illicit intercourse, still she could take as
universal legatee, from her father's testamentary declaration of her legitimacy.
The code of Louisiana makes a distinction between acknowTedged natural children and adulterine children; allowing-the former to take as legatees, but
,
not allowing the latter to do so, excepttoI a sniall amount.
But the legal relations of adulterous bastardy do not arise in this case. The
law examined relative to putative marriages, which are where, in cases of
bigamy, both parents, or either of them, cofitracted the second marriage in
good faith. The issue of such a marriage is legitimate.
The Louisiana cases, the Spanish law, and the Code Napoleon, examined as
bearing upon this point, and the principles established by them applied to the
present case.
Clark, the father, was capable of contracting marriage; the consequence examined of his testamentary recognition of his child's legitimacy.
The evidence examined which is supposed to sustain the position that the connection between Clark and Zulime Carriere was adulterous, so as to bar the
offspring from taking as a legatee under her father's will. The evidence
declared to be sufficient in a civil suit to establish the fact that Des Grange
committed bigamy when he married Zulime.
rhe difference explained between the evidence which is sufficient to establish
the charge of bigamy in a civil suit and that necessary to establish it in a
criminal prosecution.
The evidence of Coxe and Bellechasse examined, and also that relating to the
parentage of Caroline Barnes.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

555

Gaines v. Hennen.
The effect examined of the record from the Coiunty Cdurt of New Orleans, in
which Zulime prayed for a divorce from Des Grange; and also of the testimony to prove her marriage with Clark.
Whether she married in good faith or not, the weight of testimony is that Clark
did so; and therefore Mrs. Gaines is entitled to inherit her father's estate.
under the olographic will of 1813.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The case had been frequently before this court in various
aspects; first, in 13 Peters, 404, then in 15 Peters, 9, 2 Howard, 619, 6 Howard, 552, 15 Howard, 473. In some of these
reports large extracts are made from the record, illustrating
the points of law and fact then under consideration, and also
the evidence in support of them. All of this past history was
brought again to the notice of the court in the argument of •
the present case, which cannot be again recited in the present
report. The -reader who wishes to understand all the points
which are discussed -in the opinion of the court must turn
back to the preceding volumes above cited, and follow the ease
through its suecessive developments. He will then be able to
appreciate the concluding remark in the opinion of the court,
which is as follows:
"When hereafter some distinguished American lawyer shaU
.retire from his practice to write the history of his country's
jurisprudence, this case w'ill be registered by him as the most
remarkable in the records of its court.q."
It was argued by Mr. Gushing and Mr. Perin for the appellant, and Mr. Janin and Mr. Hennen for the appellee.
The record in this case consisted of a thousand printed pages,
and the records in the preceding cases were introduced, also,
into this. The reporter is saved from the almost hopeless task
of following the counsel through this wide range of inquiry
by the minute examinationi of the points of the case contained
in the opinion of the court and dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice OATRON.

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We will first give some of the facts of this case, that the
litigation which has grown out of the wills, of Daniel Clark
may be correctly understood. Without them it could not be.
They have been the subject of five appeals to this court.
This is the sixth. It presents the controversy differently from
what it has been before. It also presents points for decision
which were not raised in either of the preceding cases. Some
of those that were, however, will necessarily be mentioned
in this opinion to illustrate their connection with this case.
They may be so considered without our coming at all into
conflict with any judgment heretofore given concerning the.
rights of the parties in any antecedent appeal Our conclusioji will differ from one of them on account of testimony in
this case which was not in that, but they will not be contradictory; and because we have information in this, concerning
a piece of testimony then relied upon, which we shall exclude
in this, as inadmissible for .any purpose.
Four of the five appeals were decided by this court substantially in favor of Mrs. Gaines. The fifth was adverse, not in
anywise excluding the re-examination of the only point then
ruled by the use of the same testimony, and that which is new.
Considered in. connection, both have impressed us with a different impression of the status of Mrs. Gaines's legitimacy
from that which this court did not then think was sufficiently
proved, as we now think it las been. Now she is here with a
support which her cases have not had before. .She comes
with a decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, directing,
upon her application, that the will of Daniel Clark, dated at
New Orleans, July 13, 1813, as set forth in her petition, should
be recognised'as his last will and testament, and that it should
be recorded and executed as such. In that will her father acknowledges that his beloved Myra, then living in the family
of Samuel B: Davis, is his legitimate and only daughter, and
bequeaths to her all the estate, real and personal, of which he
might die possessed, subject only to the payment of certain
legacies named in the will.
Her petition for the probate of that will was first addressed

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

557

Gaines v. Hennen.

to the second district court of New Orleas, in which Judge
3. N. Lea presided.
After asserting that such a will had been made by her
father, its contents were set out as they were recollected by
witnesses wh6 had read it, and by other persons to whom it
had been shown by the testator, with whom he spoke of it in
the last moments of his life, as his last will and testament, in
iavor of his legitimate daughter; Myra, charging them to take
care of it, and telling them it would be found locked up in a
trunk, desoribing it, which he had, placed in a certain room in
his house.
The will is then stated in the petition to have been olQgraphic; that is, altogether written and signed in her father's
handwriting, with his seal attached to the same; that immrediately after his death diligent searches-were made for itithat
it could not then be found; that it has not been since, and
that it had been mislaid, lost, or destroyed.
She then declares, that when her father died she was a
minor, absent from New Orleans, and living with Samuel B.
Davis, to whom and whose lady she had been confided in the
year 1812.. Judge Lea took cognizance of her petition, proceeded throughout its pendency with great judicial exactness
and caution, and, as the whole record shows, with official
liberality to every one concerned in resisting the application,
without in any particular having denied to the petitioner her
rights.
The Judge, however, finally decided against the sufficiency
of the proof to establish the will according to the requirements
of the Civil Code of Louisiana, but without prejudice to the
right of the petitioner to renew her application, with such
proofs as might be sufficient to establish an olographic will.
She applied for a new trial, and upon that being denied,
solicited an' appeal to the Supreme Court, and that was
allowed.
The Supreme Court tried the case. It differed with Judge
Lea ds to the proof which was required by the Code to estab
lish a lost or destroyed olographic will. It reversed the judgment of the court below, and decreed that the will of Daniel

558"

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. ifennen.

Clark, dated on the 18th July, 1813, should be recognised as
his last will and testament, and ordered it to be recorded and
to be executed as such, it being posterior to-the will of May,
1811, which Relf and Chew had presented for probate, under
which they had taken possession of the property of Daniel
Clark, and had disposed of it to the entire exclusion of Mrs.
Gaines from any part of it-an estate shown by the proof in
the cause introduced by the defendants, which had been registered or inventoried a short time before Clark's death, at
more than seven hundred thousand dollars, in which Clark
and Coxe were interested, and an estate exclusively belonging
to Clark of'two hundred and ninety-six thousand dollars.
But to return to the decree of the Supreme Court establishing the will of 1813; it must be understood, that its admission
of the will to probate does not exclude any one who may
desire to contest the will with Mrs. Gaines from doing it in a
direct proceeding, or from using any means of defence by way
of answer or exception, whenever she shall use the probate as
a muniment of title. And the probate does not conclude Relf
and Chew, or any other parties having any interest to do so,
to oppose the will, when it shall be set up against them, by
such defences as the law will permit in like cases. It was
with those qualifications of the probate of the will of 1813 that
the case was tried in the court below, and they have been
%3onstantlyin our minds in the trial of the appeal here.
Upon the rendition of the probate by the Supreme Court,
Mrs. Gaines filed her bill in this case. It shall be fully stated
hereafter, with the defences made against it.
Before doing so, it, is due to the merits of the controversy
to advert to the decisions of the probate court of the second
district of New Orleans, and to that of the Supreme Court
reversing it, more minutely than has been done. Especially,
too, as they are coincident with our conclusions upon the testimony regarding the execution by Mr. Clark of his olographic

will of 1813, and of the concealment or destruction of it after
his death.
The Supreme Court adopts the prepared statement of the
facts of the case as it was made by Judge Lea in the court

DECEiMBER TERM, 1860.
Gaines v. Hennen.

below. Its adcuracy has never been denied by any one of the
parties interested in this suit, nor by any one else.
It is as follows: ."The petitioner alleges, that on' the 16th
of August, 1813, the late Daniel Clark, her father, departed
this life, having previously, on the 13th of July, executed an
olgraphic will and testament, by which he recognised her as
his legitimate and only daughter, and constituted her universal legatee. That the will was wholly written, dated, and
signed, in the handwriting of the testator, and was left among
his papers at his residence; that after his death search had
been made for it, but that-it was not found, and that it had
been mislaid, lost, or destroyed."
The learned Judge then proceeds: "To entitle the petitioner
to a judgment recognising the existence and validity of the
will, it is necessary that she should establish affirmatively, by
.iuch testimony as the law deems requisite, that Daniel Clark
did execute a last will containing testamentary dispositions as
i;qt forth in the petition, and that he died without iSaving destroyed or revoked it." "That looking for the testimony
which might solve the question, whether such a will bad ever
been executed or not, a reasonable inquirer would naturally
turn for information to those who were most intimate with the
deceased in the latter part of his life, and especially, if they
could be found, to those who were with him in the last moments of his "existence, when the hand of death was upon him,
if they had no interest in directing his property into any particular channel, as they might be considered as the best and
most reliable witnesses that could be produced; and'it appears
to be precisely testimony of that character that the petitionerpresents
in support of her application." Judge Lea then says: "Boisfontame had business relations with the deceased which brought
them into frequent intercourse; and that for the two last days
of his life, up to the moment of his death, he was with him.
*That De la Croix and Bellechasse were intimate personal
friends of Clark; and were with him shortly before his death.
All of these witnesses concur in stating that Clark said he had
made a will posterior to that of 1811, and De la Croix says,
that Clark presented to him in his cabinet a sealed parcel,

560

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Rennen.

which he declared to be his last will, and that it would be
found in a small black trunk. De ]a Croix also had sworn,
shortly after Relf had presented the will 6f 1811 for probate,
that Clark had made a will posterior to that; that the existence
of it was known to several persons, and he applied for an order.of the court and obtained it, commanding every notary in
New Orleans to report if such a document had not been deposited with one of them. Bellechasse and Mrs. Harper-swore
that they had read the will. The J'udge then expresses his
conclusion to be, that the legal presumption of the existence of such
a paper had been made out, and that its having been destroyed or reioked by the testator had been satisfactorilyrebutted, and that there
was nothing in the record to impeach the credibility of Bellechass6or Mrs. Harper. In these rulings of the district judge
th Supreme Court concurred, and then said, in delivering its
opinion, all that they had to do was to inquire whether the'
will of 1813 had bben proved iti conformity with the article
No. 169 of the old Code or 1648 of the new."
Those articles require the testimony of two witnesses when
the, will, shall be presented for probate, who- shall "declare their
recognition of it as having been written wholly by tTae testator,
that it hd been signed and sealed by him, and their declaration that they had often seen him write and sign in his lifetime. It was from such a requirement of proof, rejecting secondary te'stimony altogether, that the District Court refused
the petition'for a probate of the will. Upon such refusal, Mrs.
Gaines appealed to the Supreme Court.
That court said "That the question ot the alleged insufficiency pf the proof in the case could only'be determined by an
inquiry, whether the article was to be pursued at all times and
'in all cases, or whether they were not merely directions when
the will itself was presented for probate, and were inapplicable
to restrain the court in certain cases, when by reason of the
loss or destruction of such an ,instrument, from taking secondary proof of its contents, as the best which the nature of the
case was susceptible."
The coihrt then, by a course of reasoning, supported by several cases from the Louisiana Reports, determined that in the

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

561

Gaines v. Hennen.

event.of a will having .been destroyed,, secondary proof is 4d-"
inissible in'Louisiana to prove its eontents,.and to carry it to
probate; that the articles 169 aud 1648 contemplate th'at'the
will itself should be presented, with the proofs of its execution,
to the judgeof 'probate, when that -can be. done; -hat no one
would seriohsly contend that the c:Alamity pf its destruction
.should deprive the legatee of-the right to establish it by secondary eviden'ce; "for was such the law, a reward -would be
offered to villainy, and it would always.-be -in-the power of an
-ill,"
It then
unscrupulous heir to prevent the execution of a
meets the assertion directly, that articles 1648 and 1649 of the
Code require the production of the will..in or'der that itnight be
identified by witnesses who recognise it; denies., that posilion,'.and:
affirms that in the absence of-such witnessbs. the evidence con-.
cerning an unproduced, destroyed olographic will might-be
complete. The* articles are' not negative laws, declaring *that
no other kind of proof shall be admitted. "'And it is "doubted
very much if an olographic will made here had by some accident been destroyed before being legally pf'oved, whether a
copy of it, identified by two witnesses, who were able 'tq swear
to the genuineness of the original in the manner pointed out
by law, would not .be considered a sufficient compliance with
the provisions of the Code."' Such, in fact, °was.the petitioner's case they were considering. Such is the:law inanalogous
cases. The law cannot have been intended to require an impossibility, and to leave a party so circumstanced without a
remedy.
The doctrine of the common law is in accordance with the
view taken by the Supreme Court of Louisiana concerning
lost deeds and wills. It has been judicially acted up.on in
English and American cases. It was so in the case of Dove'
v. Brown, 4 Carver, 469.- That was a suit upon a lost will devising real estate. By the statute of New Ybrk it 'was necessary to prove the will by three' credible witnesses. The will
of Brown, as to its execution, was proved by one of th6 subscribing witnesses. He stated it was executed-in the presence
of himiclf, James Mallory, and another per.on whose name
he did not remember, but that hle. hi1d.io doubt of his being a
voL. XXIV

36

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

credible witness. That, the court said, was all the eviden, e
which could be'expected under the circumstances. There are
iseveral -other cases to the same effect inour American Reports. Jarman, on the Probate of Wills, 1 vol., Perkins's edition, p. 223, says, upon the authority of many cases, note 4:
"That if a will, duly executed and not revoked, is lost, destroyed, or mislaid, either in the lifetime of the testator, with_gut-his knowledge, or after his death, it may be admitted to
probite upon satisfactory proof being given of its having been
so lost destroyed, or mislaid, and also of its contents." But
to entitle a party to give parol evidence of a will alleged to be
destroyed, where there is not conclusive evidence of its absolute destruction, the party musf show that he has made-diligent search and inquiry after the will in those places where it
would most probably be found, if in existence. Under its reasoning, the Supreme Court of Louisiana, sustained by the authorities in England and in the United States, admitted the
olograplic will'of 1813 of Daniel Clark to probate, declaring
also.such was the law in Louisiana, and reversed the judgment
of the lower cou rt dismissing the petition of Mrs. Gaines.
In virtue of that decision of the Supreme Court, Mrs. Gaines

presents -herself to. this court, declared by her father to be his
legitimate an'd only daughter, and universal legatee. We will
in anoth' part of this opinion show the legal effect of her father's
testamentary declaration.
We will now state, as'briefly as it may be done in such a
case, thei essential allegations of the bill; the responses of the
defendants and their averments; the proofs in support of the
complainant's rights, and such of.them as are relied upon to
defeat them; the legal issues made by the bill and answers,
and the points relied upon by both parties: in their arguments
in this ,case.
The bill was brought against several defendants, Duncan N.
Hennen being one'of them.- They separated in their answers.
Hennen, after giving the claim -of-title to the property for
which. he is sued, admits that it was a part of the estate of
Daniel Clark, and adopts the answers filed by the other defendants is a part of his defcnce. The cause was tried with

-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

,563

Gaines v. Hennen.

respect to him only, and the bill was dismissed by the court
below. From that decree Mrs. Gaines appealed to this court.
After specific declarations as to the character in which she
sues, and her legal right to do so as the legitimate child of her
father and his universal legatee, she acknowledges that he had
made a provisional will in the year 1811. That he then made
his mother, Mary Clark, his universal legatee, and named
Richard Relf and Beverly Chew his executors. That they had
presented it to the court for probate, that-it had been allowed,
and that they, as executors, had taken possession of the entire
separate estate of Daniel Clark, ,and of all such as he claimed
in his life in copartnership With Daniel W. Coxe. It is then
assumed.that the will of 1811 had beefi revoked by the will
of the 13th July, 1813. *That Chew was dead; -that all the
legal power which the probate of the will of 1811 had given
to Relf and Chew had expired; that Mary Clark was dead,
and that her heirs and legatees reside beyond the jurisdictibn
.of the court.
Mrs. Gaines then states, in the language of equity pleading,
the pretences of the defendants in opposition -to her claims.
Such as, that Relf and Chew sold them the property as testameutary executors, of Daniel Clark under the will of 1811;
that they bought for a full consideration, without any notice
of the revocation of the will of 1811, or that any other'person
was interested in the property than Mary Clark; that the titles
they had from Relf and Chew could not be invalidated by the
revocation of that will, and that the right of action against
them for ih e property in their possession, if complainant had
ever bad any, were barred by prescription-that is, by the acts
of limitation of Louisiana. It is then charged by the complainant that Relf and Chew had no authority to sell the property of Daniel Clark when the sales were made by them. That
they had never made an inventory of the decedent's property
for the probate court before the.sales were made; that the
sales were made without any legal notice, and for an inadequate consideration. 'That if Relf and Chew had sold .under a
power of attorney from Mary Clark, and not as executors, that
Mary Clurk's power was insufficient in its terms fori such put.

SU1IZEME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

pose; that she had no power or rights in the estate of Daniel
Clark to give such a power, and that Relf and Chew had not
caused themselves to be recognised in a proper court as Mary
Clark's attorneys, ais they ought to have done, before thev
could acquire any right to sell any part of the estate of Clark.
She then charges that the defendants knew, when they bought
the property sued for,,that she had applied as early as in the year
1834 to have her father's olographic will of 1813 probated by the
proper court at New Orleans; that the defendants knew of ail
the irregular proceedings and Assumptions of Chew and Relf
ii respect to the estate of her father, and of their sales of it
without authority; -that the defendants knew, when they
bought, of the suits which she had brought to recover her
rights in her father's estate; and that her present suit was
brbught under the probate of the will of 1813 by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana.
Hennen, the defendant, answers for himself, and adopting
the answers of the other defendants, states that the property
for which he wAs sued is designated according to a plan made
in 1844, as lots 9, 10, 11, on the square comprised between
Phillippi, Circus, and Poydras streets; each lot, by Engli-h
measure, containing 23 feet 11 inches and 2 lines between parallel lines.
The answers of the other defendants make the same admissions as to their titles having been derived from or through
Relf and Chew and Mary Clark; admit the property separately
claimed by them to have been a part of the estate of Clark;
and finally make an averment that Mrs. Gaines has not that
civil status by her birth which, under the law of Louisiana, can
entitle her to take the property of her father under the will of
1813, though it had been admitted to probate, and that she
had been declared in it his legitimate and only daughter. In
other words, the defendants have declared that she is an adulterous bastard.
It is proper to state the books and documents which are in
evidence in this case.
'1. The' present record of Gaines v. Hennen.
2. The printed record of the suit No. 188, of Deceinber

DEECMBEIZR TERM, 1860.

,565

Gaim v. Hennen.

term, 1851, in thii court, Gaines v. Relf and Chew, 12 Howard,
472.
8. The proceedings in the courts of probate entitled Probate
Record.
4. The commercial account-books kept by Relf and Chew,
professing to relate to their transactions concerning the estate
of Daniel Clark.
This testimony, as it has been enumerated, was brought into
the ease by agreement of the parties for as much as it might
be worth, subject to exceptions by both sides as to its admissibility upon the trial of the cause.
Several immaterial or formal points were made in the argument to defeat the claims set out in this bill. Such as, that'
the case was not one for equity jurisdiction, but was, ratione
materix, exclusively cognizable before the probate court of the
2d district of New Orleans.' Next, that Chew and Re]f, and
Mal Clark, or'her heirs, should have been made parties; that
the sources of Daniel Clark's title to the property sued for had
not been set out in the bill in addition to the manner it had
been enumerated. Again: that the probate proceedings in the
second districtcourt of New Orleans in 1856 are yet pending
and undetermined, and on that account that the same court
has exclusive jurisdiction over the estate of Daniel Clark. We .
have examined these formal objections, and find then to be
unsustained by the cases cited in support of them. They ire
inapplicable to the actual state of the case, and are insufficient
to arrest the trial of it upon its merits. The same objections
were also urged i'n the Circuit Court, but were disregarded,
we presume, by the judge, as unsubstantial points of defence.
As to the objection that Relf and Chew, and the heirs of Mary
Clark, had not been made parties to the bill, we observe it was
not necessary to make either of them so. The present is a
suit for the recovery of property.admitted by thU defendants
to have been a part of the estate of Daniel Clark. Nothing is
sought to be recovered from Chew and Relf. Their executorial functions under the will of 1811 have long since. been at
an end. Had the bill involved directly their fransactions as
executors with the complainant, .asuniversal legatee, upon a

SUPREME -COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

proper showing of that, with a prayer to be made parties, the
court might have allowed it. But not having done that, the
defendants cannot urge, because Relf and Chew have i.ot been
made defendants with them, that they should escape from a
trial on the rightfuluess of their possession of'a part of the
estate of Clark, as they have admitted it to be; or that they
had not acquired it under circumstances from which the -law
presumes that they had notice of the irregularity of the sale
as it was made by Relf and Chew. Nor was it necessary for
the-heirs'of Mary Clark to be made parties; for Mary Clark
herself never had any pecuniary responsibilities for the sales
of the property of the estate of her son by Relf and Chew, as
her power of attorney to them upon its face was irregularly
*executed, and'was'of itself notice to'the defendants that when
they bought, the sales had .not been made in conformity with
the law of Louisiana regulating the sales of the property of a
testainentary decedent.
But it was also said in the argument that no claim could be
set upr by Mrs. Gaines under the will of 1813 until the will of
.1811 shall be set aside. Neither the language used by this
• court in 2 Howard, 651, nor in the decision in 12 Howard,
will bear such an interpretation, or admit of such a conclusion.
The rulings of courts must be considered always in reference
to the subject-matter of litigation and the attitude of parties
in -relation to the point under discussion. And it.will often
bd the case, as it is now, that counsel will use an illustration
for a judicial ruling, or words' correctly used, when they were
written as applicable to a different state of things. When this
court said, in 12 Howard, 651, that the will of 1813 cannot be
eet up without the destruction -of the will of 1811, it was with
.reference to the- existing fact that the latter had been duly
proved, and that it stood as a title to the succession of the
estate of Daniel Clark, and that the will of 1813 had not then
been proved before a court of probate, and ou that account
could not be set up in chancery as an Inconsistent and opposing succession to the estate while the probate of the will of
1811 was standing in full force. And when Mr. Justice McLean, speaking for the court, 2 Howard, 647, says, "she (mean-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860..

567

Gaines v. Heanen.

ing Mrs. Gaines, then the complainant) must ask for the probate of the will of 1813, and a revocation of. the other will of
1811," adding "for no probate can stand vhile a previous one
is unrdvoked," it is plain that the meaning was, as we now
say it is, when a court recalls the probate of a w;ill, substituting the probate of another will by the same testator made
posterior to the first, that the former becomes inoperative, and
'that the second is that under.which the estate is to be administered, without any formal declaration by the court that thefirst was annulled, and it makes no difference that a part of
the estate has been administered under the first probate. The
unadininistered must be done under the second. Courts of
probate may for ciuse recall or annul testamentary letters, but
-they can neither destroy nor revoke wills; though .they may
and often have declared that. a posterior will of a testator shall
be recognised in the place of a prior will which *had been
proved, when it was not known to the court 'that the testator
had revoked it. Such is exactly this case. The Supreme Court
decreed that the will of Daniel Clark, dated NbTew Orleans, July
13, 1813, as set forth in the plaintiff's petition, should be
recognised as his last will -and testament, -and the same was
ordered to be recorded and executed as such, with the dectaralion, that admitting the will to probate does not donclude alld
one who may desire to contest the will with the applicant in a
direct-action. The decree of the court in that particular is the
law of the case.
- It was also urged that the defendant and those under whom
he claims were purchasers for a valuable consideration without
notice, and are therefore in equity protected against the claims
of tlie complainant. It is a good defence when it shall be
proved as a matter of fact. But in this instance it is not only
disproved by testimony introduced by the defendants, but by
admissions In their answers, as shall be shown hereafter in
this opinion. In our opinion the objection has no standing ifi
this case, though the argument from which the counsel admitted he had borrowed it is a very good one in its proper
place.
We shall now examine the case upon the more serious points

568

lUIRE ME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

made in opposition to Mrs. Gaines by the learned counsel, Mr.
Janin.
The first was, that her claim was barred by prescription.
The prescription relied upon by the defendants is that of ten
years against one claiming a vacant estate, twenty years to prescribe a title, and thirty years to bar the faculty of accepting
a succession or the estate of a deceased person. There being
no vacant succession in this case, the ten years' prescription
does not apply, and the prescription of twenty years does not
exist; for Mrs. Gaines did not attain her majority until June or
July, eighteen hundred and-twenty-six, and her suit for the probate of the will made by her father on the 13th of July, 1813,
was institutedin 1834. When her petition for that purpose was
dismissed in 1836, her first bill was filed in a month or two afterwards. From that time there was a legal interruption of the prescription of twenty years, which the defendants have pleaded
and now rely upon. In fact, they recognise the interruption
in their answers. In their averment of their having had peaceable possession of the property sued for since they bought it,
they add, "that they bad never been"disturbed in respect to
it," except by an abortive attenpt of the complainant and her husband to recover it by their bill filed in 1836. New Record, 47.
We find them also in their ahswer (New Record, 54) admitting that such a suit as complainant refers to in her present

bill had been instituted by her and her husband in 1836, and
that the object of it was the recovery cf the "identical property"
now in controversy. New Record, 56, 57. It is also admitted
in the answer, that the suit of the complainant in the probate
court to annul the probate of the will of 1811, and to set up

that of 181a, was brought on the 18t& June. 1834.

These ad-

missions are decisive that the complainant claimed the inherit-

ance as early as .that date, and that the prescription which
had begun to run had been legally interrupted on the 28th
Jury, 1836, the date of her first bill.

By the article of the Code, 3484, a legal interruption of a
prescription takes place where the possessor has been (5alled to

appear before a court. ofjustiec tither on account of the prop
erty or the possession, and the prescription is interrupted by

DEOEMBER TEIUM, 1860.

569

Gaines v.Hennen.

such demand, -whether the suit has been brought before. a
court of competent jurisdiction or not.
The weight of authority upon the construction of that article
of the Code is, that it contemplates a voluntary, intentional,
and active abandonmnit of the suit, in order to restore the
running of a right of prescription. In the case of Wilson v.
Marshall, 10th Annual, 331, the court said the plaintiff did
not dismiss the suit, or consent to the dismissal. She lived in
a remote part of the State, and the mere absence of herself
and counsel at a terim of the court when her case was called is
insufficient, without other evidence, to convict her of having
abandoned her demand. Pratt v. Peck, curator, 3 Lea R.,
282; Dunn r. Kenney, 11 Rob., 250; Roswood v. .Duvall, 7
Annual, 528; Mechanic and Traders' Bank v. Theatt, 8-Annual, 469.
After the interruption of the prescription by the filing of the
bill by the complaiuant, the defendants could no longer claim
to be in possession in good faith, as that is defined in the Civil
Code. In article 3415 the possessor in bad faith is he who
possesses as master, but who assumes this quality when he
well knows that he has no title to- the thing, or that his title is
viciouts and dfective. The possessor must not only not be in
bad fitith, but in the positive belief that he is the true owner,
and itf he doubts the validity of his title, his possession is not
the basis of prescription. Troplong Prescription, vol. 2, p.
451, No. 927: Ib., p. 444, No. 918; Ib., p. 442, No. 915. The
plea of prescription is not available in this case.
But the defendants go further, and insinuate that their possession of the property, though beginning with the executors,
Relf and Chew, continued afterwards tnder Mary Clark, whose
power of attorney to then authorized them to sell the estate
of Clark.
When Relf and Chew proved the will of 1811, they received
the estate of Clark as execntors, with a right of detainer for
one year, and for as long afterwards as the eourt of pi' bate
might permit upon their application, showing cause fbr the
delay or the extension. of a longer tinme. They did reecive
such an extension fbr three years upon their riapresentation

SUPIEME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

that the nature of the estate, the difficulty of the time, and the
ample sufficiency of the estate to pay all of its debts, would
enable them by the delay to accomplish that result, The
creditors were called upon to meet to consider the proposition
They assented to it. But the executors never fulfilled the arrangement, either for. the benefit of the creditors or for the
legatees under the will of 1811. Nor did they ever make any
return to the court of probates of their transactions relative to
Clark's estate until 1836, after the complainant had sued them,
and then without vouchers to homologate their receipts, expenditures, and payments, except for a small part. Shortly
after the application for an extension of time, in the year 1813,
they applied for a power* of attorney from Mary Clark, who
had been named in the will of 1811 as universal legatee, to
authorize them to sell the estate in her behalf. The power
was given; and under it, without any notice to the court of
probate, which ought to have been given, and the power filed in
it, they continued, as the testimony in this case shows, to act
as executors, and to dispose of the estate of Clark, both real
and personal, property in copartnership, and other property
separately belonging to Clark, without ever having received
any permission to do so from the court of probate, and that
should Iayre been obtained, as Mary Clark had not been acknowledged by that court as the universal legatee of Clark.
It may be that they mistook their powers in-doing -so; but
they received the estate of Clark in a fiduciary character, to be
accounted for to the legatees and creditors, according to their
rights under the law of Louisiana, and for that they are responsible. Besides, the power from Mary Clark was given to
them as executors, that she might have the benefit of those responsibilities for the faithful execution of the trust that they
were uder by the law of Louisiana as executors. They paid
debts, received moneys, sold property, and acted throughout
as if.they were not responsible to the court from which they
derived their testamentary letters or to Mary Clai-k, and, as
the record in this case shows, without sustaining their transactions by vouchers of any kind.
N6thing is better settled by the decisions df its courts in"

DECEMBER TERM , [860.

571

Gaines v. .ennen.
Louisiana than "that an extra judicial sta.ement by an executor, that he believes the debt to be due by the estate, does not
bind the heir, nor is the heir bound by the approval of a court.
as-to such a claim, if it be made ex parte." 4 Lou. R., 382.
Again: that the admission of the genuineness of the signature
to vouchers, filed by the curator of a succession in support of
his account, dispenses with any other proof of the payment
claimed; but when such'payments are made without an order
of the court, the curator must -show that the debts were really
due by the succession, or he will not be entitled to credit for
the amounts so paid. Miller v. Miller, 12 R. A receipt given
to an administrator for the payment of an account is not evidence that the acco dnt Was due, if the fact of being due is disputed. Moore v. Thebadeaux, 4th Annual, 74. So ati administrator who renders an account is bound to establish the items
of it by evidence, and may be held to strict proof by the parties ihterested without a formal opposition on their part. Suecession of Lea, 4th Annual, 579. The accounts of Relf and
Chew were put in evidence by th defendants, and they were
used to show, among other things, that they were authorized
to sell the estate of Clark as they did, and that they were auxiliary for the establishment of the defendant's plea of.prescription. Such, however, is not our opinion, and" but for.the use
made (if them, we should not have noticed them at all, not
thinking that they are put in issue by the bill of the complainant, or the answer of the defendants, particularly as Relf and
Chew are not parties to this proceeding.
We will now proceed to the consideration of tlat point made
in the argunient- by the counsel of tire defendant, but more
particularly representiig the cit of New Orleans, as he said
he did.
It whs that complainant's suit could not be maintained,'because it was res adjuticataby this court in its judgment in the
case of Gainies ,.-Relf and Chew, in 12 Howard, 506.
We do not think so. That case is inisuiderstood by the
learned counsel. Then the -parties went tao'trial upon the demand of Mrs. Gaines for one-haif of her ftther's.estate, as tie
donee of her mother, his widow, and asjbreed heir of herfitll,ei

-

SUPREME COURT
Gaines v. Hennen.

'by the law of Louisiana for four-fifths -of another half of his estate.
Her bill then was brought in consequence of this court having decided, in 6 Howard, 550, that there had been a lawful
marriage solemnized in good faith between them in Philadelphia. That case was tried upon the same evidenct hpon
which the appeal was determined in 12 Howard, with the exception of what is miscalled an ecclesiastical record from the
Cathedral church in New Orleans, of which we shall have
much to say hereafter. Besides having decided, in 6 Howard,
that there had been a lawful marriage between the complainant's father and mother, this court decreed that Mrs. Gaines
was the lawful and only issue of the marriage; that at the time
of her father's death she was his only legitimate child, and was
exclusively invested with the character of his forced heir, and as
such was entitled to its rights in his estate.
The judgment in that case has never been overruled or impaired by this court. It certainly was not intended to be by
the case in 12 Howard, for the report in that case shows, from
the number of the justices who sat upon its trial, and their decision as to thejudgment then to be rendered, that the majority of them did not intend to overrule the decree in 6 Howard.
It was recognised again as still in force by a majority of the
judges who sat in this case in our consultation. The defendant in th-e case of 1851, 12 Howard, 537, admitted that such a
decree was rendered, denying, however, that it was conclusive
upon or that it ought to affect their right; and if it could do
so, it ought not to have such an effect in that instance, averring the same as a matter of defence, that the decree was
brought about and procured by imposition, combination, and
fraud, between the complainants and Charles Patterson. That
it should not be regarded in a court of justice for any purpose
whatever, and that it had been consented to by Patterson to
enable the complainant to plead the same as res judicata upon
points in litigation not honestly contested. Mr. Janin was
mistaken when he said that the decree in 6 Howard, 583, had
been reviewed in the case of 12 Howard, 537, meaning thereby that it had bee'u overruled. It was not only not so, but one of

E CEMBER TERM, 1860.

573"

Gaines v. Hennen.

the justices who assented to the judgment in 6 Howard, which declares that there had been a valid marriage between Daniel
Clark and Zulime .Carriere, and that she was the legitimate
child of that- marriage, would not assent to its being dons
when he concurred in the decree in 12 Howad.
The decision in 12 Howard does ,not, either in terms or inferentially, assert that no marriage had ever taken place be-tween Daniel Clark aid the complainant's mother.' The issue
in that case was, that at the time of the complainant's birth,
her mother 'was the lawful wife of another man, namely, of
Jerome Des Grange.
It was, therefore, essential to the defendants to get rid of
the decree which had affirmed the legitimacy of Mrs. G'aines
and of the marriage of her father and mother, hlid it was attempted by a contrivance as extraordinary-in its.beginning'as
it was abortive in its result. We will show what it was from
the record, not only on account of its anomalous character,
but becaus5 it is unexampled in jurisprudence.
After having asserted that the decree in .' Howard .had
been obtained by the fraud of Pattersofi and General- Gaines,,
thus impeaching the credibility of Patterson in advance, the
defendants, Relf and Chew, introduced him as their witness,
(Old Record, pp. 590, 591, 592, 598, 594,) and he was exam.
ined by their counsel, first as to a suit in which Mrs. Gaines
had recovered a house and -lot from him. After stating his
age to be about'seventy, his answer was: "It was for a house
anl lot on which I resided when the suit was brought;' I still
reside in that house and lot, and have done so ever since the
suit was brought. Mrs. Gaines succeeded in the suit, according to the judgmeiit of the court. That house and lot belongs
to her, but they told me they would not take it from me.
General Gaines and his wife gave me in writing und'er their.
hands that they would not take the property from me;. that;
be would make my title good. The property has always been
assessed as mine, and I have alvays paid the taies on. it. I
paid most of the costs, but they paid me- agahithat is, General and Mrs. Gaines. There-was an uniderstanding between
us that thley would pay the costs, even shotild the suit be deci

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. ifennen.

ded against me. They made the same- offer to Judge Martin."
In his cross-examination, witness said he had made the best
effort in his power, with the aid of able counsel, to defeat
Mrs. Gaines in her suit. The cross-examination was resumed
the next day, 20th June, 1849. Patterson was asked to look
upon a document marked A, and to state if he knew the handwriting of the late General Gaines; whether the signature to
it was not his; whether he had received that, or a communication of which that was a copy, prior to withdrawing his dilatory pleading in the case of Gaines v. Relf and Chew et al.,
and filing your answer to the merits of that case. The defendants, by counsel, protested against the paper being put
into the record, on the ground that it contained false, malicious, and gratuitous imputations against parties in no wise
connected with the suit. Witness then answered, that was
the signature of General Gaines; he bad often received letters
from him, and seen him write, and that he had received two
or three communications, of which that was a copy, before he
withdrew his dilatory pleadings in that case, and answering
to the merits. A letter was then handed to witness, marked
B. He answered, the body of it was the handwriting of
General Gaines; was present when he wrote it, and saw both
General and Mrs. Gaines sign it. Then the following question was put to the witness: '"At the trial of your cause with
Gaines and wife, did not your counsel make a request of the
-ounsel of Mrs. Gaines to be permitted to introduce the record
from the probate court of New Orleans Df all the proceedings
of Mrs. Gaines in the prosecution of her rights in that court?"
Witness answers: "Yes, sir; her counsel objected to that, and
[ applied to General and Mrs. Gaines to introduce the record.
They replied to me to get all the evidence possible, the
stronger the better. General Gaines remarked, it would be
more glorious to have it as strong as possible. I then caused it
to be introduced." Here the cross-examination of the witness
was (losed. The counsel for the defendants objected to the
foregoing testimony, and especially to that part which relates
-the conversations of the complainants with the witness, and
that part which details what was done in a judicial proceeding'

DECEMBER TERM, 1860. •
Gaines v. Hennen.

on the grounds, among bthers, that it is incompetent for the
complainants to make evidence for themselves, and that what
had been done injudicial proceedings should be shown by the record.
And from that gentleman's accurate knowledge of his profession, indicated as it has been by the two lines just underscored, may we not say in the zeal of professional advocacy
that the best of us may forget it? for what- has been his interrogation of Patterson but an attempt to invalidate a judgment
against him by the testimony of the most interested party to
have it annulled, without having made any appeal to the
record of that judgment? And Patterson was the defendant's'
witness.
But we have not yet done with this attempt to prejudice
the rights of Mrs. Gaines by suggestions that her suit with
Patterson was pretensive and fraudulent, and to extract from
him some proof or confession of his own infamy.
After the examination in chief and the cross-examination
had been completed and signed by the witness, and both
counsel had announced that they had concluded their examination, the counsel for the defendant, made another objection
to the cross-examination of Mr. Patterson, insisting that it
should be considered as his examination in chief by the complainant, to which the defendants had the right of crossexamination; and the witness was recalled on the following
day for that purpose. Every effort was then made by many
questions to extract from him some inconsistency with his
first examination' without success. But fortunately for his
own character he removes the imputation of fraud and combination between himself and General Gaines, to give to the
latter the benefit of a collusive judgment in the circuit court
against himself, by having, in his answer to one of-the questions, alluded again to the documents A and B, which are
now presented as conclusive against the charge that there was
ever any combination between them, by trick or by contrivance, or by any deceitful agreement or compact, for a suit to
be brought by one against the other to defraud any third person of his right. See Old Record, pages.1018 for Document
A, and 819 for letter B. And when the witness was asked if

-576'

SUPREME COURT.
Gazes v. Hennen.

he had not been particularly requested by the General and
Mrs. Gaines to use his best exertions, with the aid of the best
counsel he could employ, to make every defence in his power
to this suit of which it was susceptible, heanswered: Yes, and
I did so; and I considered the agreement with General and
Mrs. Gaines as an act of liberality on their part, growing out
of a desire to come to a speedy trial with some one or more
of the defendants on the merits of the case.
It was all indiscreet arrangement between General Gaines
and Mr. Patterson, not to be tolerated in a court of justice,
but not one of intentional deception in contemplation of any
undue advantage. And it would never have been made by
Reif and Chew, in their answer to the subsequent bill of the
complainant against them, had they not been erroneously
advised that the decree in sixth Howard, establishing the
marriage of Clark and Zulime Carriere, and the legitimacy of
Mirs. Gaines, might be used as resjudicaltaagainst the defendants in the suit of the 20th Jantlary, 1849, and as they now
attempt to make the decision in that case a resjudicata against
the claims of Mrs. Gaines in this which we are now deciding.
But what was decided in the case in 12 Ioward? It is sta
ted, in the language of the decision, "that the first and most
important of the issues presented is that.of the legitimacy of
.Mrs. Gaines." Then are stated the pleadings under which
the issue was made. It shall be given in the language of the
decision: "She (Mrs. Gaines) allege that her father, Daniel
Clark, was married to Zulime Nee Carriere, in the city of
Philadelphia, in the year 1802 or 1803, and that she is the legitimiate and only legitimate offspring of that marriage. -The
defendants deny that Daniel Clark was married to Zuliine at
the time'and place alleged, or at any other time'-and place.
And they further aver that, at the time the marriage is alleged
to have taken place, the said Zulime was the lawful wife of
one Jerome des Grange. If the mother of the complainant
was the lawful wife of Jerome des Grange at the time Zulime
is alleged to have married with Clark, then the marriage is
merely void, and it is immaterial whether it did or did i ot take
place. And the first question we propose to eeamie is, as to the

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

577

Gaines v. Hennen.

fact whether Zulime was Des Grange's lawful wife in 1802 or
1803." Then follows the. recital of the marriage b6tween Des
Grange and Zulime, with the record of it, on the 2d December, 1794, admitted bn the part of Mrs. Gaines. To rebut
and overcome the established and admitted fact of that marriage, the complainant introduced witinesses to prove, "thAt
previous to Des Grange's marriage with Zulime he had lawfully-married another woman, who was living when he married Zulime, and was still his wife, and -therefore the second
marriage was.foid, and this issue we are called on to try."
. Then it is said that "the marriage with Des:Grange having
been proved, it was dstablishe'd as primaface true that Zulime
was not the lawful wife of Clark, and the onas of proving that
' Des Grange had a former wife living when he married Zulime.
was imposed oil the complainant; she was bound to prove the
affirmative fact that Des Grange had committed bigamy."
Then follows the re'3ital of the testimony of the complainant
to prove that Des Gru.nge became a bigamist by his marriage
with her mother. And then, to "meet and rebut this evidence,
the defendants introduced from the records of the Cathedral
church of th" diocese, to which New Orleans belonged at that
period, an ecclesiastical proceeding against Des Grange for
bigamy, which respondents insist is the same to which complainants refer." It is set out in full in the decision, beginning: at page 513 in 12 Howard, extending to 519, inclusive.
Then the rebutting testimony of Daniel W. Coxe, for a long
time a copartner in business with Clark, was introduced. He
states an antecedent connection between Clark and Zulime to
the time of their alleged marriage, with a confidential letter to
him, which was delivered by Zulime, in which it was stated
that she was pregnant, and that lie, Clark, was the father of
the child; further, requesting that he would put her under the
care of a respectable physician, and furnish her with money
during her confinement and stay in Philadelphia; and further, that she gave birth to a child, who was Caroline Barnes,
who before her marriage went by the name of Caroline Clark,
ainl that what has been related happened in 1802; and he furtier states that Clark was not in Philadelphia in 1803, having
37
VOL. XXIV.

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

gone to Europe in August, 1802, and having returned to New
Orleans eafly in 1803. A letter friom Des Grange was introduced, dated at Bordeaux, July, 1801; also a suit for alimony
brought by Zulime against Des Grange in 1805, which will be
further noticed in the opinion. Then it is said: "This is substantially the evidence on both sides on which the question
depends, whether Des Grange was or was not guilty of bigamy in
marrying Maria Julia Nee Carriere in 1794. Objections are
taken to several portions of this evidence, and especially as
respects the record of the suit against Des Grange for bigamy
in the ecclesiastical court." And though this is followed in
the decision by a suggestive, able, and searching commentary
upon the objections made to the testimony of the defendants,
and upon that of the complainant, by connection and comparison of the two, and upon- what was deemed the law of the
case, all of it relates exclusively to disprove that Des Grange
was married, and had a wife alive when he married Zulime.
The announced conclusions in that case, which were seven
in number, 12 Howard, 539, show it to have been so. It was
"the question decided," and was said "concludes this controversy." The factum of marriage between Clark and Zulime,
and the legitimacy of Mrs. Gaines, as both had been decreed
by this court, were not then disaffirmed, either directly or inferentially, and all that was said about it is, "that the decree
of this court in Patterson's case does not affect these defendants, for two reasons: 1. Because they were no parties to it;
and, 2d, because it was no earnest controversy."
It is our opinion that the decision made in the case in 12
Howard was not intended to reverse the decree in 6 Howard,
and that it cannot be so applied as res judicata to the case we
.are now trying.
We will now show the difference as to the character in which
Mrs. Gaines then sued and that in which she now does, in
connection with the law of Louisiana, as to what constitutes a
res adjudicata,and what does not.
In the first, her demand was for one-half, and four-fifths of
another half of the property owned by her father when he died.
She then claimed as the donee of her mother to the one-half,

DECEMBER. TERM, 1860.

579

Gaines v. Hennen.

and as forced heir of her father to four-fifths-of another half of
Ms estate. Now she claims as universal legatee and legitimate
child of her father, under his will of the 13th July, 1813, which
has been admittea to probate by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, and ordered to be executed as such.
The diDerence-between the two cases is just that which the
law of Louisiana will not permit the decision in the first to be
pleaded against her in this case as a resjudicata.
It is declared in the article 2265 of the Louisiana Code,
"that the authority of the thing adjudged iakes place only
with respect to what was the object of the judgment. The thing
demanded must be the same; the demand must be founded on
the same cause of action; the demand must be made between
the same parties, and formed by them against each other in the
same quality."
The case in 12 Howard and that now under our consideration are dissimilar as to parties and things sued for, or what is
called "the object of the judgment." The suit now is not between Mrs. Gaines and Relf and Chew, but between herself
as complainant, and Duncan N. Hennen as defendant. Nothing was said in the first suit of the claim of Mrs. Gaines under
the will upon which she now sues, as in every particular detailed in the article 2265. There are differences between her
present cause of action and that formerly made, and the demand now made is not between the same parties, or formed
against each in the same quality. And, therefore, upon wellsettled principles-coincident with the article 2265, and also
independent of it, nothing that was said or done in the case in
12 Howard can prejudice her claim as she now makes it. We
give the authorities for that position, that they may be consulted, without being able, for want of time, to show their application by extracts. 24 Wend., 585; 14 Peters, 406; 1 Dana,
109; 3 Wend., 27; 2 Sim. and Stuart, 464; 6 Wheaton, 109;
.7 Cranch, 565; 3 East., 346; 4 Gill and Johnson, 860; Preston v. Slocomb, 10 Reports, (Louisiana,) 361; 1 Annual, 42;
.3 Annual, 530; 10 Annual, 682; 3 Martin, 465; 7 Martin, 727;
7 Reports, 46.

And ihe precise point was ruled in Burt . .

Steiul erger, 4 Cowen, 563-4, "that the defendant might have

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

shown, if he. could, that he had acquired a title since the former trial, or any title other than that which had been passed
upon in the former trial."
We are fully satisfied from the article 2265, and the casei
cited fiom the Louisiana courts, and from the English and
American reports, that the objectioli of res judicala, as made
against the recovery of the complainant in this case, is without
any foundation in law.
We have now reached the last and most important objection
made against the complainant's :ecovery. But before discussing it directly, we must dispose of the ecclesiastical record,
vliich was much relied upon in the argument to repel the evidence of her legitimacy, and to establish the taet that the marriage between her fither and mother was unlawful, from her
having been then the lawful wife of Jerome Des Grange; in
other words, that Des Grange did not commit bigamy when
he married her, by N; .ich she was not released from her conjugal relations with him, and had not the right to marry any
other man who was free to contract marriage.
We have seen that exceptions were taken to the admissibility of that record as evidence when it was first presented l)y
the defendant's counsel in the case before the Circuit Court.
They were renewed upon the appeal here. They were continued when the defendants introduced it again into this case,
and it is necessarily l)efore us to be determined as a question
of law, whatever may have been thought of it heretofore, either
by judges or by counsel:
Our first remark concerning it is, admitting that the cation
law, as sanctioned by the church of Rome, was in force in
Louisiana at the time of this procedure, it was a mere assumption, without authority in its beginning, tyrannous against the
object of it, and irregular in its action: It was a nullity, corarn
non judice, before the canon who issued it. The presbyter
canon who assumed to do so was not vicar general or governor
of the bishoprick of Louisiana and the two Floridas. He was
only the presbyter canon of a vacant see, without delegation
* by commission or deputation from a bishop to represent him
in his spiritual offices and powers. He had no canonical powei

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

581

Gaines v. Hennen.

in his pastoral charge of a particular church and congregation
to originate a prosecution for bigamy. Nor would either archbishop ,or bishop, had there been, either then in Louisiana,
have ventured to do so in the condition at that time of the
ecclesiastical practice and royal ordinances of Spain, especially
in-their application to its foreign possessions. And such a
procedure, was a direct violation of the Instituciones de derecho
canonico Americano por El Rev. Sr. D. Justo Donoso.
The inquisition, as it had existed for more than a hundred
years in France and Italy, was introduced into Spain by Gregory IX, about the middle of the 13th century. It encountered
no opposition there. It at first attained a prevalence and extension of power larger than it hind exercised before, and was
on the increase when Spain became an united kingdom under
Ferdinand and Isabella. They were authorized by the bull of
Sextus IV to establish the inquisition in their States. And
then it was invested with jurisdiction of heresies of all kinds,
and also of sorcery, Judaism, Mahomedanism, ofinces against
nature, and polygamy, with power to punish them, from temporary confinement and severe penances to the san benito and
the auto de f. Before that time the inquisition had exercised
a capricious jurisdiction, :both as td persons and creeds. Encyclopoedia Britannica, 8 edition, 11 vol., art. Inqui., page 386.
In its new form it met with opposition.- Attempts were made
in Castile and Arragon to repulse its authority and to restrain
the holy office, as it encroached-ulon government and deprived
the people of many of their ancient rights and privileges. Its
power, however, became triumphant, and so aggressive upon
the r6yal authority that it was resisted by the Kings of Spain,
as well in the kingdom as in its foreign possessions.
It camlot be expected that we shall enter chronologically
into such a detail. We will verify what has just been gaid by
distinct citations from the laws of Spain and royal ordinances.
The first of these ordinances which we shall cite is that of
Charles I of Spain, (5 of Germany,) issued at Madrid on the
21st September, 1580, Leyes de Indias, tom. 1, livre 1, titulo
10, page 48.
Charles hQl been about twelve years in Spain
The mines

SUPR EME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

of the West had begun to throw their treasures into Spain
They were essential to the accomplishment of the political and
military designs- of the King, and .to his necessities also. Complaints were constantly being made of the rigors of the inquisition upon the Indians in his western dominions, and upon
his subjects who had emigrated to them in large numbers in
pursuit of gold. It was said but for such causes that the yield
of gold would have been laiger. The King determined to restrain the holy office in its jurisdiction, and issued his decree
of September 21, 1530. We give Judge Foulhouse's translation of it: "We order the attorneys, police officers, sheriffs,
and other ministerial officers of the prelates and ecclesiastical
judges of our West Indies, islands, and continents alonq the ocean,
not to arrest any layman, or issue any execution against him
or his property, for any reason whatever; and we order all
clerks and notaries, not to sign, seal, or take any deposition
with regard to the same, or for any reason thereto relating;
and whenever ecclesiastical judges shall judge necessary to
have a person imprisoned or an execution issued, they shal
pray for the royal aid of our secular justices, who shall grant
it according to law. And all vicars and ecclesiastical judges
shall observe this order and comply with it, as is prescribed
by this law, under penalty of losing the status and privileges
which they enjoy in the Indies, and of being there held as foreigners and strangers to the same. And any of said attorneys,
police officers, sherifl, clerks, and notaries, and any other who
do the contriry, shall be forever exiled friom all of our Indies,
and all of their goods slall be confiscated for the profit of our
royal treasures; and we hereby direct and empower all of our
justices, and all of our subjects and settlers, not to consent
thereto, a'nd let the attorneys or executing officers do so, too;
and we order that this ordinance be observed, any contrary
custom notwithstanding."
The ordiuance of Charles was followed by another of his
son, Philip 2, which declared, "that whenever in our royal
courts of the Indies the aid of the secular arm shall be asked
by the prelates and ecclesiastical judcges, either for an arrest
or foL (xecution, the demand shall be by petition, and not by

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Gaines v. Hennen.

requisition." These royal ordirnances:will be found in the recopilacion in the Indies., They were declared by a law of Don
Carlos 2, one hundred and thirty years after they were promulgated, to be existing laws, on the 18th May, 1680. See
the law to that effect preceding the Titulo Primero in Libro
Primero, fo. 1, Recopilacion Leyes d6 Indies. They have
had their places in every edition of the recopilacion since.
Indeed, *they were never abr."gated, and were in practical
operation in all of the dominions of Spain in America until
she lost them.
They establish satisfactorily that the presbyter canon, Hasset, when he issued his prosecution against Jerome Des Grange
for bigamy and imprisoned him, that he did so contrary to
law, and that his whole proceeding in the matter was a nullity,
and, as such, inadmissible as record'evidence in a secular or
ecclesiastical court. liecopilacion, de leyes de los reynos de
las Indies; En Madrid, por Andres, Ortega, auo. de 1774;
Tercera Edicion, page 48.
.But there are other royal ordinances establishing what has
just been said in respect to the nullity of that procedure, because they bear directly upon the incapacity of the ecclesiasa prosecution for bigamy.
power
tical
The
first tooforiginate
them which we shiall cite is a cedule of March
19, 1754, in which it was declared that polygamy was a crime
of a mixed nature, in which the .royal tribunals may take cognizance in the first instance, with this qualification, that if the
inquisition wishes to punish the accused for suspicion of heresy, he shall"be remitted to it after having suffered the legal
penalties. Leyes de Indies, c. 1, tit. 19, not. 2.
But this cedule was modified.in 1761 -by Charles 3, leaving
to the inquisition cognizance of this crime, and reserving only
to the secular courts the power to take informatious, and to
hrrest the accused in order to deliver him, to the inquisition.
-This concession was made by the King, who ascended the
throne at a period peculiarly critical, requiring the conciliation
of every agency in his new kingdom to meet the pressure of
political difficultie§, and to allay discontenits and suspicions
against himself, which subsequently became a revolt. He was

584

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

charged with being opposed to the inquisition, from having
been on the throne of Naples for several years, where it had
never been introduced, the people having always resisted its
establishment over them
But the prudence of the King did not restrain the inquisition
from the'assertion of its jurisdiction in that and in other particulars offensively to the ancient usages and rights of Spain.
In its eagerness to extend its power, it invaded the royal authority, and stretched its jurisdiction to every cause in the
slightest degree connected with ecclesiastical discipline or
punishment. The King resisted it, and he was soon furnished
with a cause for doing so. The inquisition having taken from
the auditor of the army a process institutediagainst an old
;veteran who was accused of bigamy, the jealousy which the
King in fact entertained against the inquisition was revived
His vigilant minister, d'Aranda, used it to obtain a royal decree, ordering the process against bigamy to be restored to the
civil or secular courts. It also enjoined upon the inquisition
to abstain from interfering with the proceedings of the secular
courts; required it to confine itself to its prQper functions in
the prosecution of apostacy apd heresy; forbade it to "defame
with imprisonment his vassals before they were previously and
publicly convicted," and commands the -inquisitor general "to
require the inquisitors to observe the laws of the kingdom in
cases of that kind; and further, all the King's royal tribunals,
judges, and justices, were ordered to keep and obey the decree,
and to punish those who should violate it in any manner whatever. This was the decree of Charles 8, of the fifth of February, 1770, cited by Judge Foulho use in his opinion upon the
nullity of the proceedings against Jerome Dei Grange, by the
assumption of the presbyter canon, Hasset, of thQ Catledral
church of New Orleans.. For the royal decree of the 6th February, 1770, see original, the Novissima lecopilacion, vol. 5,
p. 425; Coxe's Memoirs of the Kings of Spain,. 3 vol., ch. 57,
page 367.
i£hus stood the jurisdiction of the inquisition in respect to
the crime of bigamy restrained by royal authority for six years.
Complaints were then made of the uncertainty of the royal

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

585

Gaines v. Hennen.

cedule of the 5th February, 1770, especially in respect to the
extent of its interference with the power of the holy office to
inquire for.diseipline and for punishment into cases of polygamy. The King was induced to call a toro or council, to discuss the different relations and boundaries between the secular
and ecclesiastical cognizances"of the crime of bigamy. The
result of that council was communicated to the King on the
6th September, 1777. It was that a majority of it had come
to a conclusion, that by the act of marrying a second time
whilst the first wife .was alive, the person who does so violates
the faith due to the marriage 9ontract; that he deceives the
second wife and wrongs the first; inverts the order of succession, and of the legitimacy established by the laws, inasmuch
as his fraud makes the children of the second matrimony, though
truly adulterine, legitimate, and capable to inheritfrbm theirparents
on account of the good- faith of their mother in contracting
that marriage; further, that the kingdoms of Spain assembled
in Cortes had established penalties against the crime of bigamy, commianding that they should be imposed by the royal
courts, and declaring that they should not be embarrassed in
their cognizance of the offence; also, that he who marries a
second time, his first wife being living, offends the ordinary
jurisdiction in maliciously deceiving the curate to assist at a
null marriage, and that 6n that account there is ecclesiastical
jurisdiction to inquire into the Validity or nullity of marriages;
but that it was to'be done without embarrassing the royal
courts in their coguizance of the offence. It was then said
that such persons may also incur the crime of a false profession of the sacraments, which was exclusively within the j urisdiction of the holy office; which was, however, to be exercised
reciprocally by. it and the secular courts, to prevent the repetition of the offence by the imposition of penalties which belong
to each, and by the delivery of prisoners from one to the other
to be tried. Upon the foregoing report being made to the
King, he gave a royal order to be communicated to the inquis7
itor general, that by his cedule of the 5th February, 1770, the
holy office was not impeded in the cognizance of the crimes
of heresy and apostacy, and of persous deciared subject to

SUPREME OOUR.T.
Gaines v. Hennen.

suspicioti of bad conscience by the violation of apostolic bulls
which had been received and enforced in .Spain with royal
consent, in those cases in which the jurisdiction of them was
in the holy office. This royal resolution was followed by another decree, remitted to the Alcaldro and to the chancery and
audiences of the kingdom on the 20th February, 1782. Novissima Recopilacion, page 425 of vol. 5, Ley., 10; Note 1,
Tercera Edicion, Madrid, por Andres, Ortega, 1774.
The result of the council, however, of which we have just
given the particulars, did not satisfy the grand inquisitor.
Attempts were made to reassert his assumed jurisdiction in all
its plenitude, both in Spain and its foreign dominions. The
holy office was on its decline. This was its last great struggle
for existence. The King had long resided in Naples, where
the inquisition was regarded with the same horror as among
Protestants. Though partaking of the sam*e feeling, he was
too prudent to trample ou the prejudices and opinions of his
Spanish subjects, or to make a direct attack against that great
engine of ecclesiastical authority. He had witnessed the danger of precipitate reforms and of shocking.na.tional prejudices
in matters however beneficial. He adopted in-his long reign
the only maxim which could be pursued with safety, and perhaps the only means to produce the intended effect: He endeavored to check the oppressions, to soften the rigors,'and
to circumscribe the authority of the inquisition, and bhus prepaired the way for time and circumstances to produce its total
abolition. In the pursuit of this design lie was seconded by
the energy and liberal principles.of his minister, Florida Blanca. The principal restrictions of de Aranda were gradually
revived; and in 1784 the celebrated decree was issued, which
partially subjected the proceedings of the holy office. to. the
cognizance of the Sovereign. It was ordered that no grandee,
minister, or any person in civil or military service of the
Crown, should be subjected to a process without the approbation of the King. Thenceforth this formidable tribunal became
feeble in its operations, and was suffered only to give such displays of its authority as were calculated to weaken the public
veneration. Coxe's Memoirs of the Kings of Spain, vol. 3,

DlCIEMBER TERM, 1860.

-

Gaines v. .ennen.

pages 526, 527, &c. Under the reign of the 'on of Charles, the
Prince of Asturias, his successor in Spain and the Indies, 'Fthe
inquisition received a still heavier shock, and before the late
revolution it had become a mere tribunal of police, to arrest
the progress of political, rather than of religious heresy." It
was finally abolished in Spain in 1808.
It-appears, then, froni the royal ordinances which have been
cited, that.from the time of the introduction of the inquisition intb Spain the extent and' manner for the exercise of its
jurisdiction were subject to the regulations of royal ordinances; that it had been so restrained in polygamous cases; its
jurisdiction -in them having been confined to inquirie connected with the validity or- nullity of marriages, and to the in.
fliction of penances for the violation- of the ecclesiastical law
in. respect to them. It had not the power to initiate a process
in a case of bigamy for the punishment of it but in subjection
to the royal ordinances, or to institute in the Indies, after thdse
ordinances were passed, an inquisitorial tribunal concerning it"
before tht accused had been convicted iu the secular courts.
Such was the law of Spain in respect to prosecution for bigamy, and the sunken condition of the inquisition, when noecclesiastic, iowever high may have been his dignity, would
have ventured to make such a decree as was issued by the
presbyter canon of th6 Catlfedral church of New Orleans
against Jerome Des Grange for bigamy. Ithad all the form
and more than the vigor of the holy office. It was entitled
"Criminal proceedings instituted against Geronimo Des Grange
for bigamy by the Vicar General and Governor of the Bishoprick.of this Province, and attested by the notary, Franco Bermudez." The canon- subsequently styles himself canonical
presbyter of this Holy Cathedral church, which he was; but
ads that he was Provisory Vicar General and. Governor of
the Bishoprick of the Province, which he was not. This as
sumption was either ignorance,'or was intended to give consideration to himself or to the prosecution. He was neither
Provisor nor Vicar General. For the manner in which those
functions were deputed by the bishop, we refer to the 3d vol'une of the Sfitituciones de 1).recho Oaiionico Anmericano;

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

Appendice Primero, pages 394, 395, 396, 398. The decree
purports to have been issued on the 4th of September, 1802.
It begis by saying that it had been publicly stated in this city
that Geronimo Des Gx'ange, who had been married in 1794 to
Maria Julia Carriere, was at that time married before. the
Church to Barbara Jeanbelle, and is so now, who has just arrived; and also, that Des Grange, having just arrived from
France a few months since, has caused another woman to come
here, whose name will be obtained. It is also reported in all
the city, publicly and notoriously, that Des Grange has three
wives, and not being able to keep it a secret, &c., &c., his excellency has ordered, in order to proceed in the investigation
and the infliction of the corresponding penalty" that testimony
be produced to substantiate his being a single man, which Des
Grange presented in order to consummate the marriage, and
that all should appear who can give any information in the
matter, &c., &c. And as it has been ascertained that Des Grange
is about to leave the city with the last of his three wives, let
him be placed in the public prison during these proceedings,
with the aid of one of the alcaldes, this decree serving as an
order, which his excellency has approved, and as such it is
signed by me, notary. Before me,

FRANCO BERMUDEZ.
(Signed,) THOMfAs HASSETT.
It is not necessary to cite any of the proceedings upon that
paper, or to speak of the frequently-occurring notarial certificates of Francisco Bermudez. The whole of it, however, shows
that what was done was so under his contrivance and auspictes.
The canon, Hassett, is made to begin as an ecclesiastic in authority, and signs the decree, but places the execution of it
and the imprisonment of Des Grange upon an order of his excellency. It is twice referred to in the paper as a part of it.
It should have been produced with the other proceedings.
Without that being done, no part of it can be received in evidence as the record of an authentic judicial tribunal. The
whole paper is'a novelty in the proceeding of an ecclesiastical
court. His excellency means the chief alcalde of the city, who
had no legal authority under the law of Spain to sanction such

DECEMTUBER TER.M, 1860.

589 '

Gainae v. ifennen.

a prosecution, or to order the executioji of it, either by the introduction of testimony or the i.mprisoument'of the accused;
The paper signed by Franco. Cassiergues is insufficient for that
purpose.
The procedure ofthe holy office in such cases will be found
in. the article Inquisition, in the 8th edition of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica, volume 12, page 389. It establishes the fact that
the canon, Hassett, and Bermudez, intended to proceed against
Des Grange according to the forms of the holy office, and that'
at a time when its functions in such particulars had ceased in
Spain and in the Indies. Those who are curious may also find..
directions for such a procedure in Burns's Ecclesiatical Law,
and in Ougton's Ordo Judiciorum sive Methodus Procedendo
in Negotiis et Litibus in foro Ecclesiastico Oivili Britannico et
Hibernico, 2d volume. Mr. Bentham, also, in his Rationale
of Judicial Evidence, specially applied to English practice,
volume 2, book 8, chapter 17, pag6 880 to 403, exposes with
cogent reasoning and admirable satire the artifices of the earlyEnglish ecclesiastics, and their success in getting up a similar
initiation of a pros'ecution in contravention of English statutes.
Before leaving the paper we have been examining, it is
proper for us to allude to the testimony of Judge Foulhouse
given in this case, and to his opinion given afterwards in confirmation of its invalidity.,
When he was examined as a witness, it was distinctly understood between the parties, and agreed to, that the defendants might make a motion to suppress his testimony. That
was not done. We cannot infer from it that the counsel of
the defendants acquiesced in the witness's conclusion that the
paper from the Cathedral church was inadmissible as evidence,
but it is certainly good cause for the reliance placed by counsel in their argument of the cause upon the learned judge's
declarations, and his support of them by his researches. He
cites from the Partida, 7 tit., law 16; lovissima Recopilacion,
book 12, tit. 28, law 16; Novissima U., book 12, tit. 28, law
10; the last being the cedule of Charles 3 in a case of imputed
bigamy, ordering the inquisitor general to direct the inquisitors to take cognizance of the crimes of heresy and apostacy,

SUPREME COUIT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

bigamy being considered by the canon law as a kind of heresy,
without assuming to do so "by dfaming the accused with imprisonment before they had been previously and publicly convicted."
For the reasons given, supported by the royal ordinances of
Spain, we have been brought to the conclusion that the paper
frbm the Cathedral church of New Orleans, introduced by the
defendants as a part of their evidence in this case, is inadmis-,
sible as such, and that all which it contains-must be disregarded by us in the judgmeit we shall give.
We finally remark, that our extended examination of that
papir has not been made because of its essential bearing upon
the merits of the case of the complainant. It was to disabuse
the record of what did not legally belong to it, and to correct
misapprehensions which might arise unless its character and
import had been legally shown. Give to it, however, the fullest credence, and-it will be seen. that it can have no effect upon
the law of adulterine bastardy, upon which this case must be
decided, which we are now to consider.
This brings us to the chief objection which*was made in the
argufnent, and most relied upon to defeat the recovery of the
complainant. it isthat her status of adulterine illegitimacy
incapacitates her from taking as legatee under the olographic
will of her father,.though admitted to probate, as it has been,
-by the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
It is an averment of the defendant in his answer to the complainant's bill, but not in response to any allegation in it. It
changes the attitude of the litigants from what it was in the
case of Gaines v. Relf and Chew, in 12 Howard. Then Mrs.
Gaines had the burden of proof to establish affirmatively the
fact,- that she was the forced heir of her father, and the donee
of her mother, his widow. This court at that time did not
think that had been satisfactorily done, and dismissed her suit,
without affirming for or against the factum of marriage between her father and mother. Indeed, such a point could not
have been mad'e, or be supposed to have been intended to be
decided by the court in the case then in hand, without expressly overruling its decision in 6th Howard, that there had

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

691

Gaines v. Hennen.

been i lawful marriage between Daniel Clark and Zulime Carriere, her father and mother, and that Mrs. Gaines was their
lawful child. To get rid of the force and effeqt of that decision, the defendants, having only charged before that she was
the offspring of an illicit intercourse between her father and
mother, invoked the church papers of which we have spoken
so much, in the hope of establishing krom it that she was an
adulterous bastard. And again, with the aid of that which is
not evidence in the case, and with much that isso, they now rely
to establish that charge. Mrs. Gaines meets the charge with
new evidence, relying upon the old also, and with the declaration of her father in his last will, that "I do hereby acknowledge that my beloved Myra, who is now living in the family
of Samuel B. Davis, is my legitimate and only daughter, and
that I leave and bequeath unto her, the said Myra, all the
estate, whether real or personal, of which I may die possessed,
subject only to the payment of certain legacies, hereinafter
named." Ano with this presentation of herself, of which she
had never had the proof before, asked that the case might be
judged according to the evidence and the laws applicable to it.
What that proof is will be arrayed hereafter in its proper
place. :Now, we only remark that the burden of proof is upon
the defendant, and that the law applicable to such a deelaration in a will, concerning a child, requires that there shall be
full proof to the contrary of it, and will not be satisfied with
semi plena probatio.
But the law regulating the sufficiency of proof for the disaffirmauce of such a declaration in a will cannot be fully understood and appreciated, unless our recollection shallbe revived
of the differences made by the ecclesiastical law and that of
Louisiana as to the kinds of illegitimacy, and the disabilitiei
and privileges attending them. In fact and in law they differ.
The rights and capacities of illegitimates depend -upon the distinctions being preserved.
If one be a bastard, from having been born, as the Code expresses it .in article 27, of an illicit connection, though they
cannot claim the rights of legitimate children, yet, if they have
been duly acknowledged by their fathers and mothers,. leavin9

592

SUPREME CO UiT.
Gainew v. Hennen.

no lawful children or descendants, they, as natuiral children, will
be called to the legal estate or succession of the mother, to tile
exclusion of her father and mother, and other ascendants and
collaterals of lawful kind'red. And in the case of their father's
succession or estate, they may be called to the inheritance of
it when he has acknowledzed thenI, and has left no descendants, no ascendant, no collateral relations nor surviving wife,
and to the exclusion only of the State. But though natural
children, and known to be so, they can take by testament or
will from their father, if born before their father's will were
made. And here we have the reason, in the differences of
their right of succession to their fathers and mothers, why
Clark made his olographic will in favor-of his legitimate.
daughter Myra; fearing from the clandestinity of his marriage, and other circumstances attending it, that her legitimacy
would be denied, notwithstanding his habitual aid daily acknowledgment of it, unless it was proclaimed and avowed in
his will. They take or inherit by wills of their fathers, if born
before the wills were made. As of a devise that B shall stand
seized of land to the use of Jane, his daughter: This would
be a good devise to her, if she were reputed to be so, though
she were a bastard, and not so called in the will. -Dyer, 323,
pl. 29; S. C. Jenik, p. 239; 41 E., 3-13. But this does not
extend to a bastard born after will made. ' Sid., 149; 39 E.,
8-24; 3 Leon, 48. Rivers's case, 1 Atk., 410. Hardin v.
Stardin, 2 Ves. Jun., 589. 2 Blood.v. Edwards; Cro. Eliz.,
509, 510. Coke Litt., 123, B. Ex parte Wallop, 4 B rown C.
C., 90. Kinnel and Abbott, 4 Vesey, 502. A bastard in esse, whether born or unborn, is competent to
be a devisee or legatee of real or personal estate.. The only
question in such a case is, whether, when in esse, the bastard
is sufficiently designated as the objec.t of the bequest. GordIon v. Gordon, 1 Merivale, 141. Bayley v. Snelham, Sim. 'and
Stu., 78. 2 Powel on Devises, by Jarman, p. 260. Co. Litt.,
3--6, and note 1. Dyer, 313. NOiy, 35. Park, 26. 3 Leon,
48-49. But we ought to meution in this connectioij whether
a gift can be made to a bastard not procreated is vcxata questio. The early authorities certainly lean to the negative. The

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

593

Gaines v. .HRennen.

reason assigned is, "that the law does not favor such a generation, nor except that such shall be.". Bloodwell and Edwards, Oro. Eliz., 509. Co. Litt., 3-6.
So that we see b3y. the foregoing authorities, had it been
proved in this case, or in any of the cases which the' complainant has brought for helr rights in her father's estate, that
she"was the offspring of anlillicit intercourse, which we affirm
it never has been, she would now be in the c.ondition, from he]
father's testamentary declaration of her legitimr'acy, to take as
his universal legatee. And if the case was made to~turn upon
that now, the complainant would be entitled fo a decree; but
it does not.
It is said, as an adulterous bastard, produced by an unlawul connection between two persons, who at the time when the
child was conceived were either of them or both connected
by marriage with'somo other person' the complainant cannot
take under the oiographic will of her father, because the Code
forbids it. The articles 217, 222, di) forbid the legitimation
or acknowledgment by their fathers and mothers of adulterine
children. The article, 914, does say that in no case can adulterine children inherit the estates of theirifathers and mothersthat is, as acknowledged natural children may do, by the articles. 912 and 913 of the Code. And it is declared by, the
1475 article of the Code, "that 'natural fathers and mothers
can ii no case dispose of property in favor of thleir adulterine
'or incestuous childhen, .unless to the mere amount, of 'hat is
necessary to their sustenance, or to procur&"them an occupation or possession by which to support themselves.' This is.
the prohibition upon which the defendants rely fo, defeat the
complainant.
The application of it, however, to the case in hnd, was not
as fully considered .by the learned counsel for the defendant
as it might have been. We will make it, witha decided Louisiana case for everything that shall be said, and by authoritiesfor every general proposition cited, akin to the subject-matter.
The article containin'g the prohibition necessarily intends
that the relation of the parties shall be such as it mentions,
before it can have an effect upoii either of them.
vorL xxIv.

38

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

Now, we say, first, that the legal relations of adulterous
bastardy-do not arise in this case: for, independently of the
declaration of the will, that the complainant is the legitimate
child of Daniel Clark, this court having decided in 6th Howard that the marriage of Clark to Zulime was valid by reason
o the invalidity of her previous marriage with Jerome Des
Grange, that of -course makes the complainant legitimate. But
if it be assumed, as it was in the-argument, that by the decision in 12 Howard, the marriage of Clark to Zulime was invalid on account of the validity of ter marriage with Des Grange,
then still Myra is legitimate by the law, as the offspring of a
putative marriage.
The cases from the Louisiana Reports are conclusive. The
articles in the old Code, 119, 120, are to this effect, thiat if both
pareqts, or either of them,,contracted the second marriage in
good faith, the issue of it will be legitimate. So it was ruled iii the
case f CIgndeuing v. Clendening, (3 New Series, 438.) The
Ianguage of that case is, "that the plaintiff resists the claim
on the succession of his father by a woman lie married in the
lifetime of his wife, the plaintiff's mother, and of the children,
if born of that woman. The defendants contend that notwithstanding the plaintiff's father had a lawful wife at the ime of
his second marriage, that as the woman he last married was
in good faith at the time of the marriage, and ever since, at
least till after the birth of the last child she had by him, her
marriage has its civil effects; and that she and her children,
the present defendants, are entitled to all the advantages the
law gives to a lawful wife and children. There seems to be
no dispute on the question of law. The woman who was deceived by a man who represeuits himself single, and the children begot while the deception lasted, are bona fide wife and
children, and as such are entitled to all the rights of a legitimate wife and issue." The plaintiff then urged, that four of
the children were born after the good faith of the woman
ceased, as she had been advised of tlre illegality of her marriage by a communication m'ade to her that her- husband had
another wife living in Tennessee: The court, however, said
the prof of this knowledge was insufficient to deprive herself

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

595'

Gaines v. Hennen.

and her children of their rights,-though one witness swore be
conmuticated that fact to her.
The next case vamp up before the new court organized in
Louisiana under the constitution of 1845. It is that of Patton v. the Cities of Philadelphia and New Orleans. 1 Ann.,
The facts were, that in 1799 A. Morehouse married
100.
ANbigail Townes in the State of New York, and.had two children by her. He subsequently caine to the Spahish colony
of Louisiana, and gave out that he was a widower, and married Elenore Hook. In the act of marriage, he declared himself the widower of Abigail Townes. By the second wife he
had children, and both wives survived him. It was said,
"the decision of the late Supreme Court in the case of Clendening v. Clendening et al., 3 M. N. S., 438, in relation to the
good faithn of thb second wife, is a correct application of the
Spanish law, which regulated the subject-matter at the time
of the marriage of the plaintiff's ancestor. By the law, I title,
13, part 4, it is ordained, that if, after both parties know with'
certainty the existence of the impediment to the marriage,
they beget children, these children will not be legitimate;
yetif, during the existence of such impediment, and while one
or both of them was ignorant of it, they should -be accused before the judges of Holy Church, and before the impediment,
as proved in the sentence pronounced, they should have children, those begotten du'iig the existence of the doubt will all
be legitimate. We agree with the plaintiff's counsel, that the
second wife, and all the children conceived during her good
faith, have all the rights which a lawful marriage gives." In
this case, also, it was said that the second wife was. informed
of the existence of her husband's first wife; "but the court
answered, the evidence establishes nothing more than the existence of a doubt."
We now give the case of Olive Abston et al: v. Rebecca
Abston et al., decided in 1860, by, the Supreme Court of Louisiana. Its ruling is coincideilt with the two previous cases
cited, upon a statement of facts concurring with them, but
more particular in detail.
Olive Abston sued to have herself recognised as the lawful

SUPREME COURT,
Gaines.v. Hennen.

surviving wife of John Abston, dece.ased, late of tlie parish of
Carroll, claiming she was entitled to a portion of the-property
of his succession. Her son, John N. Abston, the issue of her
marriage with John Abston, deceased, joined in. the action,
for the purpose of having himself recognised as the legitimate
son and lawful heir to the estate of his deceased father. 'John
N. Abston is. the exact. case of Mrs: Gaines. The suit is
against Rebecca Wrigit, the third wife of John Abston, de
ceased, and the a1ministratorof his suedssion or estate. He intervened in his capacity of tutor of Nancy Nix Abs'ton, the minor
child -of the.defendant, the issue of her marriage with the deceased, claiming in behalf of the minor the rights of legitimate
and forced heir in the succession of John Abston, her father.
Rebecca Wright pleads in general denial, and avers that she
was lawfully married to John Abston, deceased,, in Warren
county, in the -State of Mississippi, and that if the plaintiff's
a"leged prior marriige was eVer consecrated, it was unknown
to her, and to all other persons residing in the State of Mis'sissippi. Sie-filed, also, a supplemental answer, averring that
her husband, John Abston, had made in the -State of Mississippi his will, leaving to her his whole' estate, after. the paynient. of his debts, and that the will had been admitted to probate in the parish of Carroll, in Louisiana
The fhcts of the. case were these: JobnAbston married with
Olive Hart, his first wife, and plaintiff in this suit, in the State
of Alabama. Jobn N. Abston, the co-plaintiff in the suit, and
other children, were tl~e issue of that m.arriage. John Abston
abandoned his family.ii'tje State of Alabama without having
been divorced, a vinculo matrimonii, from his first Wife, contracted a seecond marriage with one Susan Bell, and she died.
After her death,-and being still undivorced from his first wife,
he intermarried inMississi ppi with Rebecca Wright. In -.
short time after this last marriage-he removed from Missis-.
sippi into Carroll coiinty, in the State of Louisiana, -where he
acquired a new domisir, and where he died, in which was situated the'whole propefty of his succession, moveable and imimoyeable, at th tinie.t.f ]iis death.
This narrative; and the .relatioiis as they havo been givlc

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

597

Gaihws v. Mfennen.

of the parties to the 'suit, raised two questions;, which it
became necessary for the court to decid before it gave its
opinion upon the question of the. legitimacy of the two sets of
children of Johii Abston, the bigamist, ancf father of them, and"
the rights of his two wives in his estate: First, as to the effect
of the probpte of the will, it being contended, as that had been
done by a court of competent jurisdiction, that it could not be
questioned collaterally, n its validity be inquired into in the
suit. The court declared that the decree of a probate court
ordering a will to be executed does not amount to ajudgmeht
binding on those who a're not concerned in it, and that when
the will is offered as the title in virtue of which property is
claimed or withheld, that its validity may be inquired into.
Sophie v. Duplessies, 2 Annual, 724; Succession of Dupuy, 4
Annual, 570. The other question raised was, whether the
rights of the parties in the suit should be determined by the
law of Mississippi, where the marriage of the defendant and
the deceased had been contracted, or by the law of Louisiana,
vhere John1 Abston had his domicil at the time of his death,
where his succession was opened, and where all his property
was situafed. The answer to that question was, that the laws.
of Louisianll'hich r~gulate the right of succession make no¢
distinction between persons who have contracted marriage in.pr "out of the State, nor the issue of such marriages, whether
born in or .Qut of the .State. If they have the qualities required
by the law in matters of inh-eritance, they wil be recoguised
as legal heirs without regard to the places of marriage or
birth.
The court, then, with i proper regard *to the fact that the
will which, had been made by'John Abston was invalid on account of its not having been attested by three witnesses, and. that the
succession was an intestacy, 'determines that it could not be regulated by the law of Mississippi, as 'the plaintiff- coniteiided it
should be, the basis of which is the common law, but that it
must be by the law of Louisiatia. We prefer to'cite its own.
language as to the similitude and the differences between
theni: "The prior marriage of the deceased with the plaintiff,
which remained undissolved. was a legal disability under the

SUPREME COURT.
G'aines v. 1u. a.

common law, which made the marriage with the defendant,
Rebecca Wright, not merely voidable, but void ab initio, and
made their issue illegitimate, and inuapable of succeeding by
inheritance to the estate of any one. By the law of this State
the disability of a prior marriage undissolved also renders the
second marriage null and void-; but the legal consequences of a
marriage void ab initio under our law are very different from those
under the common law. The Civil Code declares, that "tlhe
marriage which has been null nevertheless has its civil efi-bets
in respect to the parties and their children, if it has been contracted in good faith. If only one of the parties acted in good faith,
the marriage produces its civil effects only in his or her favor, and
in favor of the children born of the marriage." "In two cases,
soinewhat similhr to the present, it has been held that each
wife was entitled at the death of the husband to one-half; as
the community property, after the payment of debts; and this
rule will govern our decision in this case." Patton v. Philadelphia, 1 Annual, 98; Ilubbett v. Inksteon, 7 Annual, 25.
The mandate of the court was accordihgly given, with this
-further decree, that John N. Abston, the co-plaintiff, and that
Nancy Nix Abston, the minor, represented by ihe intervenor, are
entitled as heirs-at-law to the separate property or estate of
their deceased father, JMhn Abston, and the costs of the appeal were directed to be paid, one-half by the plaintiff, Oliver
Abston, and the other half by Rebecca Wright, the defendant.
But in further confirmation of what has been the Spanish
law, and, of course, that of Louisiana, in legitimating the children of those who marry in good faith, believing upon good
ground that there was not a precedent marriage to prevent it,
we cite from the Novissima Recopilacion, 5 vol., 425, N. Ley.,
10, what was said in the Council allowed to be held by Charles
3, King of Spain, in the year 1777, for the purpose of giving to
the inquisitor General a better understanding than he professed to have concerning the King's royal ordinance of 1770,
concerning the jurisdiction of the holy office in bigamy and
polygamoua cases generally.
The result of that Council, and so recognised by the King,
was:. "That by the act or marrying a second timie, whilst the

DECEMIBER 2E RM,1860.
Gables v. Hennel.

first wife was alive, the person who does so violates the faith
due to the marriage contract; that he deceives the second wife
and wrongs the first; inverts the order of succession and of the.
legitimacy established by the laws, inasmuch as his fraud
makes the children of the second marriage, though truly adulterine, legitimate, and capable to inheritfrom their parents on account
of the-goodfaith of their mother in contracting that marriage."
To the same effect is the Code Napoleon. C. Cer., art. 201,
202. The law of France was so before the Code. Pothier,
Contrat du Mariage, vol. 3, pp. 172,107; Toullier, tome 1, 598;
Marcadi Explication du Code, tome 1, 520; Law of Spain,
Partida, 4 Lex, tit. 13, v. 1; Dalton's Die., tome 2, 372; Tit.
Mariage, 372.
Thus we see, though a child may be adulterine in fact, it
Inay be legitimate for all the purposes of inheriting from its
parents, if one or either of them intermaFried in good faith..
Such is the law for others in Louisiana, and it must be administered accordingly for the complainant, if she stands in
the _position, by the evidence which the law-requires and has
determined to be sufficient to establish a marriage in goodfaith
between her father and mother, or as to either of them, to entitle
her to inherit from either or both of them as legitimate by the
law.
On such. a question good faith is first to be presumed. Marcadi Explication, tom. 1, pp. 522, 698. As to what constitutes
good faith, it is'adjudged that to marry a second time, supposing the previous marriage invalid, is one of the cases of
good faith. Dalton's Die., tom. 2, p. 371; Tit. Spain, No. 578.
The two last citations have been given to show the inaccuracy
of the conclusion of the learned counsel of defendant, that if
the invalidity of the mafriage between Des Grange and the
complainant's mother was not proved, that she was necessarily
an adulterine illcgitimatW.
She was heir-at-law if procreated by Clark in good faith, or
if conceived by .her mother in good faith-that is, she suppos.
ing her capacity to-become the wife of the former.
Nor was a sentence of the nullity of the marriage between
Des Grange and th6 complainant's mother necessary to pro-

-

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. BTrnnen.

tect the legitimacy of the offspring. Marcadi Explication,
tome 1, p. 49p; Ibid, p. 519; 2 Phillemore's Reports, 19; Shelford on Martiage, Law Library, vol. 31, p. 275.
The good faith of Clark and Zulime is pr6ved. by the evidence of Madame Despau (Old Rec., 580) and Madame Calliant,
(Old Rec., 809,) and by the contemporaneous facts relating to
the marriage, as well as by the testimony of Caviliere (Old
Rec., 546) as to the bigamy of Des Grange, by the testimony
of Bellechasse, by that of Madame Benguerel: Old Rec., p.
349. The good faith of Clark in marrying is proved by his
own declarations in the. last years of his life. By Bellechasse's
testimony, Probate Record, 173, Boisfontaiiie, Ibid, 162, Mrs.
Smyth's, Ibid, 152. Again: the good faith of the marriage is
proved by the authentic declaration of Clark in his will that
the complainant was his legitimate daughter and only child.
See, also, the opinion of the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
Charles Succession, 11 Annual Reports.
But we now say, if we are to cbnsider the question of adulterine bastardy to be properly, before us in this case, it.cannot
affect the rights of the complainant under the will of Clark of
1813. If the complaiiiant,,by reason of the matrimonial character of her mother, shall be deemed adulterine on that side,
she is not so on the side of h.er father, he having been as a
single mau free to marry; and if he did marry in good faith,
she is not incapacitated, as respects him, to be, under his will,
his universal legatee. Journal Du Palais, vol. 60, p. 45, January 7, 1852.
There is no pretence that Clark was incapable tocontract
marriage; and it matters not whether, as to the mother of the
complainant, any impediment existed under the Spanish law;
the complainant stands as the declared issue of her father by
a woman to whom lie supposed himself lawfully married. Not
only the bill itself, but the evidence upon which it is established, shows that Daniel Clark had no other legitimate issue.
No one exists who has any right to contest his acknowledg
*mentof the legitimacy of his chird, or to set up the adulterous
source of her origin. See C. N., art. 335, 2 Marcadi, pp. 51,
31, 52, Nos. 60, 61, 62; Journal du Palais, vol. 60, p. 45; Jo-

DECEMBER TERM,1860.

601

Gaines v. Heninen.

bert et al. v. Pitot ex'ors, 4 Annual, 305; Judge. Foulhouge's
Opin., 57, 58; 2 Toulliers, 960.
The -testamentary recognition of a child as legitimate is of
the highest legal authority. All presumptions are to be taken
in favor of such a declaration. Matthews on Pres. Ev., pp.
284, 286; Gaines v. Chew, 12 Howard, 598; Miller v.Andrews,
2 Louisiana Annual, 767; Jarman on Wills, vol. 1, p. 188;
5th Phillip's Note, 284,-287. And authorities cited. I Greenl.
Ev., 134. And we now cite, in cbnfirmation of all that has
been said upon this point, the 11T7 Nouvelle bf Justinian.- It
gives the TUl of evidence in suclh ca§es, and it prevails in
every ecclesiastical court in-Europe, wlifre the Romian law is
the basis of its jurisprudence, in respect to the legitimacy of
persons. It is also, in cases of that kind, the law of Louisiana.
We give it in the original Latin: "Ad hoe auteni et illud
sancire perspeximus, ut si quis filium 'aut filiam liabens de
libera muliere cum qfta nuptim .onsistere possunt, dicat in -instrumento, sive publica, sive manu conscripto et.habente subscriptionem trium testiun fide dignorum, sive in testamento,
sive in gestis:m6numentorum, hunc nut bane filium suum esse,
et non adjecerit naturalem, hujusrnodiflios, esse legitimos, et nullam
aliar.probationemab iis quceri, sed oeni frui cos ure quod legitimis filii nostrce conferunt leges." Translation: "We have
determined to ordain, that if any one having, a son or daughter
of a free woman, with whom lie might have been married,
.hall say in -a written act, either before a public officer or under
his own hand, sustained by three credible witi-esses, or inhis
ast wi1, or in public acts, that this son dr this daugliter is his
child, and that he does not call them nat ural children, th~y
shall be.reputed legitimate, and no other proof shall be demanded'
of them, dud- they shalt enjoy the rights of legitiniate children." This Nouvelle has been 'the subject of much criticism
and leariled interpretation by the most distinguished civilians.
By no one mor6 so than the (Sbaucellor d'Auguesseau, in his
declaration or o'dinance of 1736, which had for,.its object., as
he himself says, to explain and .affirni the proofs of the legal
condition of men. The declaratioir consists of- fdrty-two articles., Several of thew rlate to the form in which baptismal

SU PRIEIEIE COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

acts ought to be registered to give verity to legitimates; but
whether they are so or not, this ordinance of Justinian secures
to children legitimacy, if they shall be placed by their fathers
or mothers within its predicament. And we may add, that the
interpretation of it by all who have been skilled in the civil
law is, that it attaches legitimacy to the son. or daughter of h
man and woman who are both free, but that it does not demand that the word legitimate should be applied to them to
make them so. On the contrary, the Nouvelle means that if
the child is not called a natural child, he is of right to be reputed legitimate, and the commentator's remark is: "Mark
well, that this is not a Roman law made when paganism
reigned in Rome, but a law made by a Christian Emperor."
Merlin Repertoire de Jurisprudence, 17 vol.; Tit. Legitime,
sees. 1 and 11, pp. 348, 349; Ed. Bruxelles, 1827; Question
d'Etat; On ]a previe testimoniale ne ful point admise, tome 8;
Causes Celebres Filiation Reclam~e, Sans acte de baptime,
sans une Veritable Possession d'Etat, sur le fondement de plu.
sieurs forte consectures; tome 19,.Causes Celebres, 204.
Such as we have stated it to be is the law relating .to the
children of i-n!ative marriage, though it be adulterite in fact,
if it was contracted in good faith by the parties, or by either
of tem. Their children are legitimated to inherit from their
parents, either in a case of intestacy or to take by testament.
In the latter, a declaration by either father or mother that they
are their children, without the addition that theyare natural
children, will -makethem legitimate, and no other proof can
be demanded of them to enable them to enjoy all the rights'of
legitimate children. But the case in hand is even stronger
than that, for here the father in his will "acknowledges his
beloved, Myra to be his legitimate and only daughter," and
makes her the universal legatee of his estate after the payment
of certain "legacies.
But the defendants aver that the connection between her
father and mother was adulterine, even though they may have
been married, and on that account that she is barred from
taking as legatee under her father's will
We will now orive the proof, upon which they rely to sub.

DECEMBER TERM

1860.

Gaiws v..Hejnzen,

stantiate their allegation, illconnection with the voluntary
rebutting testimony of the complainant, as-we find it in the
record.
The paper from the Cathedral church in New Orleans is
first invoked by the defendants. Now, though that paper has
been shown to be ail unauthorized attempt by a canonical prebendary, without jurisdiction of any kind in such a matter,
upon a public report, to try Des Grange for bigamy, for having
three wives at the same time, and to make him answer by imprisonment, whether such an irresponsible.accusation was true
or not true, the defendants in our consideration of their averminnt shall have the full benefit of that paper as evidence,
theugh we have declared it.to be inadmissibfe a& such.
Des Grange, it appears from the paper, was put in the public
pri-on and kept there until the canon, Ilassett, after having
exa-mined several witnesses, decreed: That not being able to
prove the public report, he directed the proceeding to be suspevded, to be resumed thereafter if it should become necessary, and that Des Grange should be set at large, on condition
that he paid the costs. This he did, and fled from New Orleans, without ever having agaii any conjugal relations with
the mnother'of the complainant, though as. it wifl directly appear from the paper that lie was indebted to her for. his enlargement from the canon's usurped authority.. Nor did Des
Grange reappear in New Orleans until after the cession of
Louisiana to th United States.
In the course of the proceedings against Des Grange, both
himself and the complainant's mother were examined as witnesses. Both of them reply to questions concerning his bigamy in respect to his marriage in 1794 with her; acknowledge
that they were aware of the report prevailing agaiust him in
that regard; and she says that about a year since (in 1801) it
was stated in the city -that her husband had been married at
the North, and wishing to ascertain whether it was true or not,
that she had gone to Philadelphia and New York, where she
used every exertion to find out the truth of the report, and
that she learned only thait lie had ecurted a woman, whose
father not consenting to the match it did not take pine, and

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

she married another man shortly afterwards; and she adds,
that she had recently heard that her husband was married to
three women, but she did not believe it, nor had she any doubt
about the matter which rendered her unquiet or unhappy.
All of this Des Grange confirms; for being asked why his wife,
Maria Julia Carriere, went to the North last year, he'answers:
"That the principal reason was, that a report had been circulated in this -city that he was married to another woman; she
wished to ascertain whether it was true, and she went.
Thus the defendants, b' the introduction of the paper from
the Cathedral, show the existence and currency of the report
of Des Grange's guilt of bigamy in marrying the mother of
the complainant, and the aggravation of it in the public mind.
by the prosecution of him, and from the canon not having dismissed it altogether, but having retained it for further inquiry.
Upon his enlargement, as has been proved by unimpeachable
testimony, Des Grange fled.
Now, in this connection, it is appropriate to state the evidence which the law will receive and pronounce to be sufficient
to determine that he did commit bigamy'when he married the
mother of the complainant. It so happens, excluding all admission of it 'to the family of the mother of the complainant,
the fact is proved by a witi.ess, the truthfulness of whose testimony has not been assailed, and could not have been.
Madame Benguerel has no connection with the family of the
complainant,- and her standing and character were such thai
the defendants'could not impeach her credit by even an itisinnation against either; but she was subjected to their cross-interrogation. It brought out neither difference nor contradiction of herself, nor was there anything in the way in which
ihe gave her testimony to subject her to aly suspicion of
friendship to the coumplainat,or of any want of memory or
uncertainty in her narrative..
Madame Benguerel says: "My husband and myself were
very intimate with Des Grange, and when ve reproached him
for his bagenress in imposing himself upon Zulime, he endeavored to excuse himself by saying, that at the tim~e he married
her he had abandoned his lawful wife, and never inten-ded tc

DECEMABERI

TERM, 1860.

605

Gaines v. Hennen.

see., her again."

In answer to a cross-interrogatory put upon

the point, she says: "I am not related to the defendants, nor
with either of them, nor am I with the mother of Mlyra; nor
am I at all interested in this suit." She adds: "It will be
seen by my answers how I knpw the facts; I was 'Well acquainted with Des Grange, and I know the lawful wife of Des
Grange, who he married before imposing himself in marriage
upon Zulime."
The paper then discloses the following facts: That Des
Grange was notorio.usly -charged with bigamy in.marrying
Zulime; that she left New Orleans "for the North" in 1801
to.get proof of it; that he says that he principal reason foi
going was for that purpose; that he was prosecuted for bigamy by the canon in 1802; and was temporarily released from
prison after Zulimte had sworn that she did fiot believe the report about him. It is in proof, also, that he then fled from
New Orleans, and did not return to it ui.til the year 1805.
Her interference or testimony before the canon negatives every
suspieion that she had afiy agency in-instigating the prosecu-.
tiou against him. His own oath upon the occasion confirms
it, for he speaks of his wife being satisfied with. his innocence,
and there is not a word-in the paper nor in any of the evidence to show that her friends had provoked ok abetted in any
way the public accusation of his bigamy. Nor is dlark, the
father of the complainant, at all associated wvith that procedure. Indeed, he was in Europe at that time. With all these
.facts and obvious inferences from them, tqken in connection
with the testinionj- of Madame Benguerel, the only question
concerning the bigamy of Des Grange in marrying the mother
of the complainant when he did, is whether the law determines the evidence to be sufficient in a civil suit to establish
the fact.
We think that the law requires us to pronounce that it is
sufficient.
A charge of bigamy in a criminal pi'osecution cannot be
proved by any reputatiolL of marriage. There must be proof
of actual marriage before the ac:used ciln be convicted. But
in a civil suit the confession of a bigamist will be sufficient,

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

when made under circumstances from which no objection to it
as a confession call be implied. There are none such in this
case. The first legal consequence of such a state of the evi.
dence is, that it released the mother of the complainant from
all conjugal obligations with Des Grange, making her free to
contract marriage with any other man who was free to intermarry with her. But that conclusion is not the purpose for
which we have used, as the defendant wishes it, what the
church paper discloses. The object has been to show that the
defendants have introduced that paper in support of the charge
of adulterine bastardy, when in fact it discloses a condition of
things from which it may well be inferred that both the father
anod mother of Mrs. Gaines intermirried in good faith. It is
far short of the evidence in the record to prove that they did
so, which will be seen presently. Then the next testimony
which the defendants rely upon to aid in proving the adulterine status of the complainant is that of Daniel W. Coxe, the
friend and co-partner in business with Daniel Clark. His testimony was originally taken in a previous case to invalidate
the marriage between Clark and the mother of the complainant. In 12 Howard, as it was in this case, it was associated
with the church paper to sustain the objection we are now considering. In the argument, it was said that the two were sufficient to,prove it. But take the testimony of Mr. Coxe as a
whQle, or in its particulars, and no part of it has the slightest
bearing upon the canon's prosecution of Des Grange, or upon
the objection that the complainant was the offspring of an
adulterous intercourse. 'Mr. Coxe begins with the history of
Caroline Barnes, giving an account of the preparations which
he had made at the solicitation of Daniel Clark for the confinement of her mother, and then states it to be his belief that
Clark had never married her. Beyond this, in regard to the
marriage, he does not speak, except in his offers to the success
of his effbrt to dissuade her from attempting to prove it, and
that he did not believe that Daniel Clark was in Philadelphia
in the ycear 1803, when it is alleged that he married there the
mother of the complainant. Many other circumstances are
narrated by Mr. Coxe in connection with the affairs of Mr

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

607

Gaines v. Hennen.

Clark, and of his acknowledgment of Caroline Barnes as his
ilhgitinite child. But after the closest examination of them
in coinmnction with the point of adulterous bastardy, and thai
Clark and Ziiline, after the birth of Caroline; were married
in good faith, there is not a word in Coxe's testimony to impeach the fact of marriage, or the fidelity of the parties in en.
terixg into it.
The defendant also gave in evidence a letter written by Bellechasse, from Matanzas, to Coxe, in reply to"one from the latter. Coxe had written to Bellechasse at the instigation of Mr.
Relf, requiring him to dispose of fifty-one lots in fhvor of Caroline Barnes, to the exclusion of the complainant, for whom
they were confided by Clark to him for her bendfit. This
Bellechasse refused to do. He then states what had previously
passed between Relf and himself concerning these lots. lie
had before given to Relf his renunciation of any ownership of
them, with directions to dispose of them for Myra, stating
what had passed between himself and Clark upon the subject,
as he has related it in his testimony. Probate Record, pages
173 to 182, inclusive, answer to 13th interrogatory. This letter
does not relate in any way to the marriage between Clark and
the complainant's mother, or to their alleged adulterous intercourse. It, however, confirms the honorable character of Bellechasse, and strengthens all that he had said of Clark's declarations to him of the legitimacy of his daughter Myra, and of
his intentions to make her the heiress of his estate. This letter seems to us to have been introduced into this case by the
defendants, with some expectation that it might serve to make
Bellechasse's testimony equivocal, and also to associate both
Myra and Caroline as the adulterine offspring of Clark and
Zulime. The attempt, in our view, is a failure as to both.
The complainaui's status depends upon the evidence in this
case. That of Caroline Barnes, notwithstanding the declarations of Coxe that she is the natural child of Clark by Zulime,
must be determined by the law as to what were the relations
between her mother and Des Grange when she was conceived
and born. The.witness, Madame Despau, says that she was
at the birth of ONroline, and that it took place in 3801. Mr.

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

Coxe says, to the best of his belief, that she was born in the
year 1802, but without any of those attendant circumstances
which give even a coloring to the correctness.of his chronol
ogy as to the event of which he was speaking, and with one
proceeding from, himself, which shows how little reliance can
be put upon the accuracy of his memory, either as to the time
when he says Mrs. Des Grange presented to him Clark's letter
to have her taken care of in her confinement, as she was with
child by him, or as to the time of the birth of Caroline, or as
to Clark's visits to Philadelphia immediately preceding his
departure for Europe in the year 1802. In Mr. Coxe's second
examination, he states it had been disclosed to him by his correspondence with Clark that the latter had been in Philadelphia from late in1801 to the last of April, 1802, all of which
time Zulime -vas there; that it was in April that Clark returned to New Orleans, and afterwards that he had revisited
Philadelphia in July, 1802, on his way to Europe; thus confirming the statement of Madame Despau in those particulars.
In the absence of all contrary proof, either by circumstance or
deposition, the declaration of Madame Despau as to the time
when Caroline Barnes was born must be received to establish
that fact. And that being in the year 1801, however much it
may be suspected that she was the child of Clark, and eveoi,
that he supposed her to be so, she must be considered in law
to be the child of Des Grange, the gestation of her mother and
the birth of the child being within the time before any interruption had taken place of their conjugal relations. That is
proved by evidence introduced into the case by the defendants. The first is the power of attorney of the 26th of March,
1801, given by Mesdames Caillavet, Lasabe, and Despau, auihorizing Des Grange, their brother-in-law, to proceed to Bordeaux, in France, to recover property of which they were coheiresses of their father and mother. Next, by ageneral power
of attorney, which Des Grange at the same time gave to Zulime to act for him in all his affirs during his absence. She

lid so in several partiulars, styling herself the legitimate wife
and general attorney of Don Geronimo Des Grange. Des
Grange accepted the power given to him. sailed for France in

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

.609

Gaines .v. I-fennen.

April, and on the 1st July, 1801, wrote from Bordeaux to Clark
fo aid his wife with .his advice, should she be embarrassed in
any respect, and expressed his uneasiness that he had not yet
heard from her; saying, also, that he was-then engaged in :
"lawsuit for the purpose of recovering an estate belonging to
my wife and family." Now, under such a chronology of circumstances rand of conjugal amity, we aeed not say that as
access between man and wife is always presumed until otherwise plainly proved, and that nothing is allowed to impugn
the legitimacy of a child short of proof by-facts showing it to
be impossible that the husband could have been the father. of
it, the law, then, establishes the relation between Des Grange
and Caroline as having-been that of fathe and legitimate child,
and that'she was not the offspring of an adulterous commerce
between Clark and Zulirne; though Coxe says she was, and:
reaffirmed substantially in his letter to Bellechasse, as., we.
gather from his answer in hi's refusal to turn over property to
Caroline which was received by him from her father for Mrs.
Gaines. See letter in page 896 of Record of Gaines v. Hen-

n en.
The defendants also gave in evidence an authenticated record from the county court of New Orleans. It was introduced
by them," and declared by them, in their answers to the complainant's bill, to .be a .petition by her mother, Zulime Nee
Carriere, wife of the said Des Grange, to a competent judicial
tribunal in Iew.Orleans, praying for a divorc6_and dissolution
of the bonds of matrimony existing between her.. and Des
Grange, which was subsequently decreed after the birth of
the coinplainant. But they -now urge and declare that such
record and decree prove nothing in the case. In our opinion it
proves inuch, though differently from what it was introduced
for. Their counsel now says, th'st the record is deficient in
the petition, and therefore that it does not appear that its pbject was the annulment of the marriage between Zulime and
Des Grange on account of his bigamy. The petition is wanting; and why, has not been satisfactorily shown by the defendants. They knew it to be wanting when they intro huced
the record of evidence, and on that.account cann6t now repuVOL. XXIV.

39

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

diate it for what it contains, because that is against the purpose for which it was introduced. It shows that apetition was
filed; that a curator was appointed for Des Grange; that he
was summoned to answer for Des Grange; that he appeared and
demurred, to the jurisdiction of the court in cases of divorce, and
on Ihat account that the court could not pronounce ajudgment
therein, and that the damages prayed for in the petition could
not be assessed until after the court had rendered judgment
touching the validity of the marriage. There was a joinder
in- demurrer, which, however, was withdrawn, and the curator
filed the general issue. The docket entries in the suit, kept
by the clerk, are in conformity with the act of April 10th,
1805, section 11. They are as follows: Petition filed June 24,
1806. Debt or damages, $100. Plea filed lst July, 1806.
Answer filed July 24, 1806. Set for trial 24th July. The
witnesses are stated, and the costs given. And tlren fbllows
judgment for plaintifi damages $100, July 24, 1806. Now,
this extract of so many particulars makes out as well as it
could be done the purpose of the petition, and establishes
consistently, as it is required to be done, by the rules of evidence for such a case, that the marriage between J.:rome Des
Grange and Zulime,- or, as otherwise named,-Marie Juia
Nee Carriere, was thereby declared null and void. But the
defendant's counsel says, that the record is inoperative for
any purpose, inasmuch as it was a proceeding at the instance
)f Zulime in her maiden name, three years after her alleged
marriage with Clark. It is forgotten that a judicial invalidation of marriage at any time for the bigamy of a party to it
relates back to the time of the marriage, and places the deceived in a free condition to marry again, or to do any other

act as an unmarried woman, without any sentence of the nullity of the marriage. The evidence, too, shows that the procedure by Zulime against Des Grange originated in her anxiety
to 'place herself in that condition in respect to her marriage
with Clark, which he had enjoined upon her to keep secret
until -a sentence of the nullity of her marriage with Des
Grange had been obtained. She could not, under such circumstances, use Clark's name in such a suit; she could not

DECEMBER IERM, 1860.

611

Gaines v. Hennen.

have sued in Des Grange's when disclaiming the validity of
her marriage with him; and therefore her counsel in-filing her
petition used her maiden name, as it was proper and- professional in them to do. .One thing is certain, that the record
from the county court of New Orleans does not in any way
sustain the charge against this complainant of adulterine bastardy, but adds another circumstance to the many which exist
in proof of the marriage between her father and mother, and
of the good faith with which they entered into it.
To confirm what has just been said, we will now cite the
evidences of it:
"Madame Despau testifies that she was at the marriage of
Zulime and Clark in 1802 Di 1803; that it took place in Phil
adelphia, and the ceremony was performed by a Catholic
priest, in the presence of other'witnesses as well as of herself.
She states that she was present when her sister gave birth to
Mrs. Gaines; that Clark claimed and acknowledged her to be
his child, and that she was born in 1806. That the circumstances of her marriage with Daniel Clark were these: Several
years after her marriage with Des Grange, she heard he had
a living wife. Our family charged him with the crime of bigamy in marrying Zulime. He at first denied it, but afterward
admitted it, and fled from the country. These circumstances
became public, and Mr. Clark made proposals of marriage to
my sister, with the -knowledge of all our family." The witness then continues her narrative, that it was considered es.ential before the marriage should take place that proof should
be obtained from the Catholic church in New York of Des
Grange's bigamy, it being there that his prior marriage had
taken place. They went there; found that the registry of marriages had been destroyed. Clark followed them, and having
heard that a Mr. Gardette in Philadelphia had been one of the
witnesses of the prior marriage of Des Grange, and he tolcl
them thathe had been present at the prior marriage of Des
Grange; that he knew him and his wife; that the wife had
sailed for France. Clark then said, you have no reason any
longer to refuse to marry me; it will be necessary, however,
to keep our marriage secret until I have obtained judicial proof

612

SUP-REME COUTRT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

of the nullity of your marriage with Des Grange. They were
then married.
Such judicial proof was subsequently obtained, as has already been shown. Another witness, Madame Caillavet, confirms the statement that Clark made proposals of marriage for
Zulime to her family, after her withdrawal from Des Grange,
on account of her having heard that he was the husband of
another woman then alive. She also swears that Clark admitted the marriage to her, and that so did Zulime. Clark also,
made an acknowledgment of it to other witnesses, with simultaneous declarations to them of the legitimacy of Myra; and his
paternal treatment of her from her birth to his death impressed
them with the full belief of the fact and of the sincerity of the
purposes for which he made such declarations. Mrs. Harper,
.who nursed Myra, not as a hireling, but as the friend of Clark,
says that he made to her at different times declarations of the
child's legitimacy and of his mai'riage with her mother. He admitted it, also, to Boisfontaine, and added,'that he would have
avowed the marriage but for her subsequent marriage to Gardette. Pressed upon by such proofs, every effort was made by
the most searching and repeated cross-examination to lesseh
the force of them without success. Failing in this, a direct attempt was made to discredit their veracity by an impeachment
of their characters. It Was a signal failure. Forty ypars of
their lives were canvassed to bring upon them some r 'proach.
The proofs to the contrary were decisive. They, too, bad had
their misfortunes; but their lives had bedn passed in the different places where they had lived, not only without censure,
but altogether free from suspicion. Their testimony was also
put in comparison with that of Mr. Coxe. They to difler in
immaterial circumstances, but in nothing concerning the marriage between Clark and Zulime. All that Coxe had been able
to say about that was, that he did not believe it. That conclusion, too, he came to by inferences from his own narrative
concerning the time of the birth of Caroline Barnes; that he
withdrew afterwards, as to the time of its occurrence, and also
as to his declaration, that Clark had not been in Philadelphia
in the year 1801, exctending his sojourn there for more than

DECEMBER TEIZM, 1860.

613

Gaines v. Hennen.

four nonths, w hilst .Zulime and her aunt were in search of
proofs of the b'igamy of-Des Grange. The evidence also shows
that Clark aided their inquiries for that purpose. Besides
the want of memory of Mr. Coxe, his narrative shows so strong
a bias against the marriage that we must receive it with many
grains of allowance. After Zulime had obtained a -sentence
of the nullity of. her marriage with Des Grange, she went to
Philadelphia to learn the truth of reports which were in circulation concerning the fidelity of Clark to herslf. She had an
interview with Coxe; told him her purpose, and her intention
to proclaim her marriage with Clark, unless she became satisfied upon that shbject. He told her that she could not prove
the marriage, and after-wards advised: her to take counsel of a
lawyer. Re,.of course, dissuaded her from any attempt todo
so.. At the same time Coxe aggravated her distress and hope-lessness :by telling her that Clark was then engaged to marry
a lady of distinction in Maryland, which, whether true in the
particulars of his narrative of it, or as- a general report, there
is no proof in this record; but it-servad his purpose in disuniting Zulime and Clark forever. Clark was then in the
height of his popularity and distinction in the Congress of the
United States. His friend sheltered him from the disclosure.
Mrs. Harper, as a witness to Clark's admission to her repeatedly of the marriage, was cross-examined severely, but
without any effect, to dimini8h the weight of her testimony in
chief. Bellechasse and Boisfoiataine, in their subsequent examinations, adhered to what they had at first sworn, and their
Zharacters forbade even a suspicion of its not being true.'
Failing in every attempt to lessen the proof of the marriage,
it was suggested that all of these witnesses were in c(mbina;.
tion to establish it by pejury. The defendant's counsel had
himself extracted -rom their answers that they had no interest
of any kind in the result of the suit. They are protected by
the rules of evidence from any such imputation. There was
no foundation for it.
The marriage, then, having been proved, the only point remaining is, whether it was contracted i, good faith by the
parties to it. We see no cause f6r .thinking that it was not

S614

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. ifennen.

entered into in good faith. Supposing it, however, not to bave
been so by Zulime, on account of her not having sincerely believed iii the invalidity of her marriage with Des Grange, that
could not take away the complainant's right to inherit her
father's estate under-his olographic will of 1813, if it has not
bieen fully proved, as the rules of evidence in such cases require it to be done, that he did not marry in. good faith. The
doubts which nmay be indulged in respect to Zulinie's sincerity
cannot apply to him. He was an unmarried man, never had
been married, when he united himself to Zulime, and the
weight of testimony in the case is, that he did marry her iu
good faith. His conduct to his child from her birth to his
death, his frequent declarations of his marriage to her mother,
and of her legitimacy, and his avowal of it in his last will, are
conclusive of his having married in good faith. The law applicable to such cases requires us to say so.
We have not thought it necessary to give all the evidence
in this case in detail, but have accurately done so as to all of
it bearing in any way upon the points in controversy, and especially as to that having any connection with the charge of
adulterine bastardy. Those who may have any curiosity to
read the testimony in full will find it in what is called the
Probate Record; also in the cases as they are reported in 6 and
12 Howard, particularly in the old record of the last case.
Our judgment is, that by the law oriLouisiana Mrs. Gaines
is entitled to a legal filiation as the clild of Daniel Clark and
Marie Julia Carriere, begotten in lawful wedlock; that she
was made by her father in his last wilL his universal legatee;
and that the Civil Code of Louisiana, dind the decisions and
judgments given upon the same by the S§upreme Court of that
State, entitle her to her father's succession, subject to the payment of legacies mentioned in the record. We shall direct a
inandate to be issued accordingly. iith a reversal of the decree
of to court below, and directing such a decree to be made by
that court in\tlhe premises as it ought to have done. Thus,
after a litigation of thirty years, has this court adjudicated the
principles applicable to her /ights in her father's (state. They
are now fiually settled.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

6,115

Gaines v. Hennen.

When hereafter some distinguished, Amdrican lawyer shall
retire from his practice to write the history-of his country's
jurisprudence, this case will be registered by him as the most
remarkable in the records of its courts.
DECREE OF THE COURT.

This appeal having been heard by this court upon the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana, and upon the arguments
of counsel, as well for the appellant as for the appellees, this
court, upon consideration of the premises, doth now here adjudge, order, and decree, that the decree of the said Circuit
Court be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that
such other decree in the premises be passed as is hereinafter
ordered and decreed.
And this court, thereupon proceeding to pass stich decree in
this cause as the said Circuit Court ought to have passed, doth
now here order, adjudge, and decree that it be adjudged and
decreed, and is hereby adjudged and decreed upon the evidence in this cause, that Myra Clark Gaines, complainant in
the same, is -the only legitimate child of Daniel Clark in the
said bill and proceedings mentioned, and as such was exclusively invested with the character of such legitimate child,
and entitled to all the rights of the same; and that under and
by virtue of the last will and testament of the said Daniel
Clark, the said Mlyra Clark Gaines is the universal legatee of
the said Daniel Clark, and as such entitled to all the estate,
whether real or personal, of which he, the said Daniel Clark,
died possessed, subject only to the payment of certain legacies
therein named.
And thisrcourt doth further order, adjudge, and decree, that
all propety described and claimed by the defendant, Duncan
N .Henfiei, in Lis answer and exhibits thereto annexed, is
part and parcel of the groperty composing the succession of
the said Daniel Clark, to wit: the same vhicli Richard Relf
and Beverly Chew, under pretended authority of testamentary
execut .rs of the said Daniel Clark and of attorneys in fact of
Mary Clark, by act of sale, dated December 28, 1820, conveyed to Azelic Lavigne; which the said Azelic Lavigne, by act

SUPREME OOUMI.
Gainw v. Hennen.

of sale of the 29th of February, 1836, conveyed to J. HiddlestoI., and which the said J. H3iddleston, by act of the 27th of
May, 1836, conveyed to the New Orleans and Carrolton Railroad Company, and which the said company, by act of sale
of the 13th of May, 1844, conveyed to the said Duncan N.
Hennen; the defendant in this cause; that the said Richard
Reif and Beverly Chew, at the time and times when, under
the pretended authority aforesaid, they caused the property
so described and claimed by the defendant, Hennen, to be set
up and sold by public auction on the 19th day of December,
1820, and when they executed their act of sale aforesaid of
the 28th of December, 1820, to the said Azelic Lavigne, bd
no legal right or authority whatever so to sell and dispose
of the same, or in any manner to alienate the same; that the
said sale at auction, and the said act of sale to Azelic Lavigne
in confirmation thereof, were wholly unauthorized and illegal,
and are utterly null and void; and that the defendant, HenIen, at the time when he purchased the property so described
and claimed by him as aforesaid; was bound to take notice of
the circumstances which rendered the actings and doings of
the said Beverly Chew and Richard Reif in the premises illegal, null, and void; and that he, the said Hennen, ought to
be deemed and held, and is hereby deemed and held, to have
purchased the property in question, with fdll notice that the
said sale at auction, under the pretended authority of the said
Richard Relf and Beverly Chew, and their said act of sale to
said Azelic Lavigne, were illegal, null, and void, and in.fraud
of the rights of the person or persons entitled to the succession of the said Daniel Clark.
And this court doth further order, adjudge, and decree, that
all the property claimed and held by the defendant, Henuen,
as aforesaid, now remains unclaimed and undisposed of as
part and parcel of the succession of the .said Daniel Clark,
notwithstanding such sale at auction and act of sale in the
pretended right or under the pretended authority of the said
Richard Reif and Beverly Chew.
And the court doth further order, adjudge, and decree, that
the complainant, Myra Clark Gaines, is the legitimate and

DECEMBER- TERM, 1860..
-

.Gaines

6.17

v. Hetrnen..

only child of the'said Daniel Clark, and universal legatee under his last will and-testament, is justly and lawfully entitled
to the property aforesaid so claimed and held by the defendant, Rennen, together with all the y*early rents and profits
accruing from the same since the same came into the said defendant's possession, to wit, on* the 13th of May, .844, and
for'which the said defendant is hereby adjudged, ordered, and
decreed to account to the said Myra Clark Gaines.
And the court doth -now here remand this cause to the said
circuit court foir such further proceedings as may be proper
and necessary to carry into .effect the following directions;
that is to say:
1. To cause the said defendant, Hennen, forthwith to surrender all the property so claimed and held by him as aforesaid into the hands of the .said Myra Clark Gaines, as a part
of the succession of the said Daniel Clark.
2. To cause an account to be taken by the proper officers
of the court, and under 'the authority and direction of the
court, of the yearly rents and profits accrued and accruing
from the said property since the13th of May, 1844,, when it
came into -the possession of"the defendant, Heinen, and to
cause the same to be accounted and paid to the said Myra
Clark Gaines; the account to be taken subject to the laws of
Louisiana in cases of such recov'ery as is now. decreed i favor
)f the said complainant.
38.To give such directions And nrake 'such orders from time,
to time as may be proper and necesary for carryinginto effect
the foregoing directions, and for enforciig the due observance
of the 'same by all parties and by the officers of the court.
Dissenting: "r. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr .Justice CATROT, nd Mr.Justice GRIER.
Mr. Justice CATRON dissenfi ng.
A principal question in this case is,how far it is affected bj
.the decree in -b.d case of 6iines and wife v. Chew, Relf, and
.others, reported in 12 Howard.In that cae. the complaifiant sought' to recover: first, four

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

fifths of the real estate of Daniel Clark, alleged to be vested
in tlhe complainant, Mrs. Gaines, as heir of Daniel Clark; and,
seccndly, the undivided moiety of the real estate owned by
Daniel Clark at his death, being the community interest taken
by his widow, the mother of the complainant, Myra, from
whom she obtained .a conveyance for said moiety in 1844.
In the former cpse this court fouild that Mrs. Gardette, the
mother of Mrs. Gaines, was the wife of Jerome Des Grange,
(in 1802 or 1803,) when the bill alleged she intermarried with
Daniel Clark, and was. therefore, not the widow of Clark; and
this moiety of the estate claimed by the bill was rejected.
2. It appeared in the former case, by the evidence furnished
by the record in that suit, that Caroline Clark was the sister
of Mrs. Gaines, born before the father and mother intermar,ied, as is alleged by the former bill; but she was fully recognised by the father as his illegitimate daughter, and was supported by him during his lifetime, and after his death by his
friends. The deposition of Mr. Coxe proves these facts very
fully.
Conceding the fact that the parents intermarried after Caroline's birth, then that marriage made Caroline. a legitimate
child of the marriage, and equal heir with Myra; such being
the law of Louisiana. Nor could the father, by the laws of
that State, take from his legitimate child more than one-fifth
part of his estate by devise. Civil Code of 1808, ch. 8, sec. 1.
And therefore Caroline and Myra each took as heir four-fifths
of their father's estate, less the mother's moiety; that is, four
shares each of twenty parts. On these portions the will of
1813 did not operate; the children holding the estate as heirs.
It operated only on the two-twentieth parts which Daniel
Clark had the power to devise by his will. Civil Code, 232,
sec. 3; 234, sec. 4.
Caroline, who intermarried with Doctor Barnes, was a party
respondent to the former suit, and answered the bill. She
has since died beyond the jurisdiction of the court, and is not
a party to this controversy; still, the interest of her absent
heirs is entitled to protection. Nor can Mrs. Gaines set up
any claim to that interest.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

619

Gain.v. Hennen.

As respects the claim to one-tenth.part,°the next question
is, whether the fact found in the former case, that the complainant was the daughter of Des Grange's wife, establishes
the status of Mrs. Gaines, so that she is excluded from taking
as devisee of Daniel Clark.
According to the provisioibs of the Code of 1808, this court
held that Mrs. Gaines could not take as heir of her fhther;
nor could she take her mother's grant by the deed of 1844.
By the laws of Louisiana, as they stood- in 1813, the complainant was an adulterous bastard, and could not inherit
from her father, (Code of 1808, p. 156, art. 46,) which, declares,
that "bastard, adulterous, or incestuous children, even duly
acknowledged, shall not enjoy the right of inheriting their
natural father or mother." And article 15, page 212, declares,
that "nutural fathers or mothers can in no ca-e dispose of
property in favor of their adulterine children, evefn acknowledged, unless to the- mere amount of what is necessary to their
sustenance, or to procure them an occupation or profession by
which to Support themselves."
The only issue decided in the former suit was, whether the
complainant's mother for years before, and at the time of
Myr:a's birth, was the lawful wife of Jerome Des Grange.
The court so found, and based its decree dismissing the bill
on that fact. The fact being established, carried with it all
the legal consequences that result from the fact. 1st Stark.
Ev., 182, sec. 57. One of these consequences is, that Mrs.
Gaines was an adulterous bastard, according to the laws of
Louisiana, and incapable of taking by the will of her father.
But suppose this consequence does not follow; then how
does the matter of estoppel stand? The complainant, Mrs.
Gaines, by her amended bill, filed in 1848, renounced all claim
that she had to the property sued for by her original bill, (intluding the same sued for now,)-as instituted heir of Daniel
Clark, by the will of 1813, and asserted a right to four-fifths
of said property as legal or forced heir and only legitimate
child of Daniel Clapk, and declared she would not rely on said
will of 1813. 0. R., p. 85.
She also virtually renounced as heir one moiety of the estate

o2L

SUPREME C(URT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

Daniel Clark died possessed of, ant set up a deed from her
mother for the moiety as lawful widow of said Clark; this
being her community interest by the laws of Louisiana. Old
R., p. 82.
That the widow was entitled to a moiety as her share in the
community is. alleged and relied on by the foregoing amendinent; and the complainant being the party who made the
avowal, is irrevocably bound by it. Stch is the statute law
of Louisiana, declared by the Code of 1808, (p. 314,) and the
Code of 1825, (vol. 2, p. 355.)
In the former case the avowal was matter of title, and in
this case it is conclusive evidence of the fact avowed as against
the complainant. The law of Louisiana binds the Federal,
courts in like manner that it is binding on the State courts.
So this court has uniformly held. 1 St. at Large, 92; note (a)
to 34th sec. of Judiciary act.of 1789.
If the mother was lawful widow of Clark, thep her right
to the moiety was- undoubted, as the parties resided in Louisiana, and it is alleged the property Was acquired during -the
coverture. Mrs. Gaines must abide by her allegations in the
former suit, as on them the issues were formed, and on which
the decree in that suit proceeded.
Nine, of ten parts of Clark's estate was sued for by the former bill. The decree rejected on a direct issue five-ninths
claimed to have been acquired by-deed from said mother, on
the ground that she was the wife of Des Grange, when, as is
alleged, she intermarried with Clark, and when.the complainant was born. This was the precise issue made, and found by
the court, and is undoubtedly resjudicataas respects the motb"
er's moiety. As to the other five-tenths, Mrs. Gaines, by her
amended bill of 1848, in express terms renounced one-fifth to
the 'purchasers, under Daniel Clark's will of 1811 To the
extent of one-fifth, the validity of that will was recognised.
The complainant cannot be allowed to split up her claim and
sue for portions by several suits.
The remaining four-fifths of the moiety Mrs. Gaines claimed
to recover as legal or forced beir." Heir, or no heir, was the
issue tied. This-coufrt found that she was Clark's daughter

DEOEMiBER TERM, 1860.

621

Gaines v. Hennen.

-

by Des Grange's wife, and not Clark's lawful heir, and there-'.
fore dismissed her bill. It follows, that as to the four-fifths'
of one-half, the complainant stands barred as heir by the decree.. She is also estopped by the former proceedings to sue
a second time for the moiety derived from her mother; and
thirdly, is estopped to set up a claim to the one-tenth part she
renounced and abaifdoned.
&a-objection is raised that the parties in this cause are not
the same who were sued in the former case. The bill alleges
that they are the same; and s6 they are, except that Mr. Hennen claims under the railroad company by a conveyance of
the land in dispute, made pending the former suit, which, if it
had been decided against the railroad company, would have
bound Hennen, and being decided in favor of the company,
bound the complainant.
The rule in chancery proceedings is,. that where there are
contesting parties in each suit, as between these parties, a decree is resjudicata. It was so held by this court at the present
term' in the case of Thompson and als. v. Roberts and als.
Sixty defendants were "sued by the former bill; they all, as
joint respondents, got a decree against the complainant on her
common title set up against them all. The estoppel operated
against her for each defendant; and in this sdcond contestation
of the same title"any one. respondent to the former suit can set
up the estoppel in his favo'r.
The laws of Louisiana are onfidefitly relied on as prescribing the true rule of estoppel. In this English bill in equity,
resorted to here as a remedy, the rule is,'that the same subject-matter cannot be litigated twice between the same parties
on evidence brought forward or left out of the first case. Here
the will of 1813 is introduced, and could just as well have been
introduced in the former suit. The difficulty was, that it had
not been proved and recorded in the probate couit. But it
might have been proved just as well forty years before the
time it was admitted of "record as now. If a title deed could
not be read on the hearing for want of being recorded, the
complainant might fail to recover. This is of constant occur-

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

rence; still, the judgment or decree would be as conclusivE, as

if the deed had been authenticated and recorded.

It was sim-

ply a neglect of the complainant to produce her proof in legal
formn; a matter with which the defendants had no concern.
[folding back an existing will and making ai experiment on
the issue of heirship, requiring the same proof, and, in case of
failure, to bring a second suit on the established will, is a mere
contrivance, and an evasion of the due administration of justice, which cannot be allowed. On the will of 1813 the present bill is founded. By that will Daniel Clark declares the
complainant, Myra, to be his only legitimate and lawful heir,
and devises to her all his estate. She'imust, therefore, have
beeti his daughter, born in wedlock. Conceding this to be
true, and it follows as a consequence that the compllainant took
as heir, and not as devisee, to the extent of four-fifths. As
to four-fifths of a moiety, we are by this bill called on to try
the precise issue of heir, or no heir, that we tried in the foriner suit.
If the decision reported in 12 How. be overthrown, ruin
must be the consequence to very many who have confided in
its soundness. In a rapidly-growing city like New Orleans,
much of the property supposed to be protected by our former
decree must have changed hands. Large improvements must
have beenimade in the nine years since that suit was decided.
It covered all Daniel Clark's estate as it existed at his death,
-and had over sixty defendants to it.
If the twenty odd defendants to this bill co i be recovered against, so can the otherg
who were parties to the first suit.
It is most manifest fron this record that the fragment of a
cause brought here by Mrs. Gaines and Mr. IHennen by stipulation will, in effect, decide, and was intended to decide, the cause
of the other defendants sued jointly with Mr. Ilennen, and
who are standing helpless, awaiting their ftate at the hands of
this court.
It is insisted by counsel that Clark, being a free man, could
lawfully devise'to his daughter; and that the laws of Louisiana did net apply to the ease of a single and free nan be-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

628

Gaines v. Hennen.

queathing to his child by a married woman, as was done here.
Such a construction would evade the code'to a great extent.
Its terms are too plain for controversy, and so the courts of
Louisiana have held. Jung v. Dorescourt, 4 L., 178.
According to this assuniption, slaves might be devisees, if
the evasion was used to suppress the fact thatthe mother 'vas
a slave. As in case of other conveyances, wills must have a
grantee capable to take by the devise; and it is undoubtedly
true chat the heir-at-law, or a devisee, holding under a former
sill, can plead and prove the facts df incapacity by parol evidence, and thereby defeat thellast will, and of.course aliene.es,
in the condition these respondents are, can do the same. The
case above cited (4 L., 178)is directly to this point, and to the
same effect it was held in Robinett v. Verdum, (14 L., 542.)
There, the court declared that a disguised donation to a slave
child under the forms of a sale was absolutely null.
But the right and justice of this causddepends on the defence
of the plea of bona fide purchaser set-up by the answer. * The
-bill in chancery is a remedy peculiar in its character, when resorted to in.
the. Federal court held in the State of Louisiana.
In the State courts there, this defence is unknown. But when
a complainant resorts to it to eniforce rights to lands in the
Federal court, the respondent can defend himself, as an innocent purchaser, if he pleads, and can show that he acquired by
purchase at a fair price, and got an apparent legal title, without notice of an outstanding better title, ihe purchaser believing that he acquired full property in the land; and the question is, has the respondent here made out such a defence?
The purchase was made from Mary Clark, in 1820, by her legally-constituted attorneys in fact, Chew & Relf. She claimed
to be the true owner by a'will made in her favor as instituted
heir. It is an olographic will, in due form, fully proved, and
regularly recorded. This will, from the time it was probated
in 1813, stood as the true succession of Daniel Clark for more
than forty years. An immense estate in lands and personal
property has been acquired under it, by all classes of innocent
purchasers, without any suspicion of the fact that any other,
and better title existed. It is admitted on behalf of the re-

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

spondents, by stipulation in this cause, that each purchaser
who bought in 1820, .and every subsequent purchaser under
the first one, bought for a full price; paid the purchase money,
and got a regular conveyance for the land purchased. This
title, tested by itself, was a perfectly fair legal title, according
to the laws of Louisiana. Duplesse v. White, 6 A., 514. If
Mary Clark sold the estate without an authorization from the
court of probate, by that act she rendered herself liable to pay
the testator's debts; but this did not affect the purchaser. He
.was not bound to know that any debts existed, nor to see to
the application of the purchase-money. The present bill does
uot allege that there were any debts owing by Daniel Clark at
the time of his death; on'.the contrary, the complainant sues
for the lands, and the rents and profits of them, without any
reductions. Finding Daniel Clark's estate to be insolvent on
the accounts exhibited, General ant Mrs. Gairres, by their
amendment of 1844, declare that they do not require of said
Chew & Relf any account, and that they "discontinue their
prayer to that end."
The complainant admits the e:istence and probate of the
will of 1811; but denies in general, terms that the sales were
lawfully mqde. For more than forty-years the respondents
and their alienors had a regular legaf title, traceable to the
only then existing succession of Daniel Clark; they could sue
for and recover the land by force of that title. They knew
nothing of the existence of Myra. She was born in New Orleans in 1804 or.-1805, and immediately after her birth was
taken from her mother by Daniel C'ark, her reputed father,
and put into the charge of Colonel and Mrs. Davis. In her
childhood she was carried to the State of Pennsylvaiia, raised
up and esided there till 1882, when she intermarried with
William W. Whitney, under the name of.Myra Davis; during
all.which time she was ignorant of her true name, history, and
rights. She so states in her first bill, filed in 1836, put in evidence in this.suit. Of ourse the purchasers of the lands sued
for could have no knowledge of the complainant's existence
when they paid their money and took title, in 1820.
But,the respondents would have been bona fide purchasers

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

625

Gaines v. Hennwn.

had the will of 1811 never existed. Mary Clark was the apparent legal heir of her son in the ascending line. Daniel
Clark was known and. recognised in New Orleans as aii unmarried man; he had resided there from his youth, and was
extensively and uncommonly well known, having represented
the Territory of Orleans in Congress. A' number of witnesses
prove, and most conclusively, that he was deemed and recog-_
nised universally as a man who had never been married up to
the time of his death. His father was then dead, and Mary
Clark, his mother, recognised as his undoubted heir. He addressed and made propositions of marriage to ladies of his own
rtink, after it is pretended he had married Madame Des Grange.
Those who purchased in 1820, including judges of the highest
rank residing on the spot, could not doubt the validity of
Mary Clark's title, and power to sell the lands they bought
and paid. for.
In the printed argument submitted to us on behalf of the
complainant, and again on the oral argument delivered. before •
us in this court, the answer to this apparently complete defence was, that Mary Clark was dead in 1820, when her attorneys made the sales, and conveyed in her name.
The bill alleges no such fact, nor does the answer refer to
it. But the complainant, by her bill of 1848, in eidence here,
states that Mary Clark died in June or July,,1823, leaving a
will, alleging who the legatees were, (of which the complainant was one;) and some of these iegatees are mdade -defendants
to that bill. Daniel W. Coxe proves the bircumstances con-*
nected with making the will of Mary Clark, and says -she died
in 1823, in which year her will was duly proved and recorded
in Philadelphia county, Pennsylvania.
It is also relied on that Mary Clark did not accept the succession by taking possession of the estate in legal form. She
made her power to sell, and did sell, and gave possession to
the purchasers, and they have held actual adverse possession
under their conveyances since 1820. This is admitted of record; and it is now too late, after the lapse of thirty:five years
before they were'sued, to set up this technical objection. The
VOL. XXIV

40

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Hennen.

presumption in- favor of regularity in the proceeding is -too
clear to admit of controversy.
Another objection is made to this plea of bonafJe purchaser,
namely, that Chew & Relf had no authority from the probate
court to sell, and that they joined with-Mary Clark in the conveyance. The conveyance of Mary Clark was valid, notwithstanding this circumstance, as the Supreme Court of Louisiana
wold in Duplesse v. White, 6 A., 514. She held the actual
legal title. The will 'olerated as a conveyance in the same
manner *that a private act of, sale would have done. It is
proved that the sales of the estate were made at auction, and
had the form of sales made by authorization of the court; this
is the fair presumption; nor can the complainant at this late
day have a decreg against these respondents. Presumption
that the °executors were dui authorized to make sales for payment of debts comes instead of proof. This bill was filed
more than thirty years after Mrs. Gaines became of age, and
thirty-six years after the first vendor purchased and took title,
in 1820; and it must -be presumed that the proper orders of
the probate court were granted. The presumption arises from
possession and .lapse of time. Possession 6f itself is, in the
hatUre of ujen and things, an indiceun of ownership. If all
perso~As acquiesce in the possession, the acquiescence tends to
prove property in the possessor; and after the lapse of thirty
years the irobabilities so increase, that courts of justice, fbr
the safety of society, hold an adverse claim to be without
foundation. He who thirty years ago fiay have been abund.antly able to-show regularity of proceedings and evidence of
ownership, may be unable to do so now. His witnesses may
be dead, as is eniphatically the case here. His title-papers
may be destroyed or lost; and a court of equity must say, as
the Supreme Court of New York did in the case of McDonald
v. McNeal, (10 Johns. R., 380,) "The fact is presumed for the
purpose and from a principle 6f quieting men's possessions,
and not because the court really think a grant has been made."
Or, as the Supreme Court of Tennessee said in the case of
Htanes v. Peck, (Martin &-Yerger's R., 236,) "In such case.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

627

Gaines v. Hennen.

length of possession supplies the place of testimony; presump-tion is substituted for belief; we believe when the fact is
proved; we presume in the absence of proof."
Had Mary Clark's devisees sued this purchaser, he could
have relied on presumption to supply proof of regular orders
from the probate court to authorize the executors to sell, or
that Mary Clark regularly accepted the. succession; and the
same presumption must prevail against this complainant.
It is provided by the 7th section of the act of March 25,
1810, that contracts of sale of real property in. Louisiana shall
be recorded in the office of the parish judge where the property is situated; and if not so recorded, the contract shall be
void. It is admitted in this case that both the power of aitorney from Mary Clark and the deeds to purchasers made under
that power were not recorded in the office of the probate judge,
but that they w ere recorded in a notary's office in NTew Orleans; and it is assumed, and the cause is made to depend
mainly on the fact, that the sales of Chew & Relf, as attorneys
of Mary Clark, are null as to third persons for this reason.
This is an entire mistake. The act of 1810, section 7, never
had any application to the parish of Orleans, where the land
in dispute lies. - It "had referende to those parishes where the
office of parish judge was established, combining with the judicial powers of the officer those of notary and recorder of
mortgages," &c. "These powers were not possessed by the
judge of the parish and city of New Orleans. The law is not
appliablW to this parish, and has been so considered ever since
its enactment." Morris v. Crocker, 4 Louis'a, p. 149. It is
further held, that the notarial offices bf the city were the proper
offices in which the record was to be made. Id. In this, and
all otler respects, Mary Clark's conveyance was regular.
The evidence shows, that as against the responden ts to this
bill, the claim set up is grossly unjust. Clark's' failure was
very large; his estate was wholly, insolvent. The purchasers
nave in fact paid his debts to a large amount. Many of them
are yet unpaid. The purchasers have built houses and raised
families on the property now sought to be recovered: A city

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Iennen.

value five
has been built upon it. It has probably increased ill
hundred fold since 1820; much of it certainly has.
That the respondents have been harassed with a previous
lawsuit for the same property, in which the complainant
claimed as heir, and was dcfeated, neither helps her case nor
lessens the hardships imposed on the respondents.
At the argument, conclusions of law and of fact were relied
on as having been established lk; the case of Patterson v.
Gaines and wife, reported in 6 How. 11. That was a false and
fictitious case made up by Gaines and wife, with the assent of
Patterson, they having relinquished to him the property sued
for. The object of that suit was to circumvent this court by a
fraudulent contrivance to obtain an opinion here, to the end
of governing the rights of the other defendants sued jointly
with Patterson. And in this, General and Mrs Gaines seemingly succeeded. They obtained both the opinion and decree
they sought; but when the other defendants came to a hearing they examined Patterson as a witness, and proved and exposed by his testimony the contrivance and fraud practised;
and for us now to declare that so gross a contempt to this
court, and the practice of a fraud so disgraceful to the administration of justice, established any matter of fact or any binding principle of law, would be to sanction and uphold that
proceeding, and to invite its repetition. That case should be
disregarded, as it was disregarded, when the cause of which it
was part was fully and fairly heard in 1852, and .wbicb is re.
ported in Howard's Reps., vol. 12.
The case of Lord v. Veazie, (8 How., 253,) is full to the
point, that a fictitious proceeding is void because there is no
contest. Patterson did not act in the matter at all, further
than'to lend his name to Gei'eral and Mrs. Gaines. They
made up the case by filing the answer to their own bill-:-filing
such evidence as suited their purposes; and bringing up the
appeal to this court in Patterson's name.
By an amendment to their bill made in 1849, (12 Howard,
.537,) General and Mrs. Gaines had the boldness to allege and
claim that the dec:ee in Patterson's fictitious case was res ju,

DECEM1IBR TERM, 1860.
Gaines,-v. Hennen.

dieata, and an estoppel to the other defendantW to that suit;
and to that end relied on the decree on.the final hearing in
1852, thereby avowing the fraudulent object of obtaining that
decree.
A question not directly decided iu the case ieported in 12
How. was, whether Daniel Clark married Mrs. Des Grange.
Madame Despau swore that she was present at the marriage
in Philadelphia, and that several others *were present. Her
integrity and credit as awitness were so directly overthrown
in the former case by the deposition of Daniel W. Coxe, and
by many eircumstdnces, as to leave her evidence of no value.
She "swore that she went to Philadelphia with her sister to
procure evidence of Des Grange's marriage previous to mar,rying her sister. Coxe proved beyond doubt that the two.
women came there for the sole purpose of concealing the birth
of a child, of which Mrs. Des Grange was pregnant, and of
which she was very soon delivered, and it was secreted and
raised to womanhood near Philadelphia. This was Caroline,
Grange
afterwards Mrs. Barnes. And so soon as Mrs. Des Orleans.
to New
Was able to travel, the two wonien returned
Me. Despau also swore in several depoditions that this was
Des Grange's child. At the time of its birth he bad been absent in France for more than a year." Clark sent Mrs. Des
Grange to Mr. Coxe with a letter, saying the child was Clark's,
and to provide 'for the mother, aid take charge of the child,
which Coxe did. It was- suggesteki at the argument that
Coxe was not a competent witness, and n6f altogether entitled to credit. Clark's estate owed Coxe largely, and if.Mrg.
Gaines recovered, then Coxe expected to be benefited by the
recovery. So that he was interested to uphold Mrs.'Gaines's
claim; nor has the deposition of Mr. Coke been objected to;
on the contrary, it is admitted bi stipulation. R., 98.
Mr. Coxe's character for integrity is prominently manifest
by sustaining facts.
Clark never admitted the marriage to any one entitled to
credit, or who could be believed, when swearing to what a
dead man had said.
He proposed. to mai'ry another lady in 1808, and Mrs. Des

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Ilennen.

Grange and Madame Despau came to Philadelphia, and sent
for Mr. Coxe, then in partnership with Mr. Clark in large
mercantile transactions, and inquired of him whether the
fact was true. Coxe ass6uted. Mrs. Des Grange said that
Clark had promised to marry her, and that she then felt at liberty to marry herself; and soon after, she was married to M.
Gardette, a dentist of Philadelphia.
In 1805 Des Grange returned to New Orleans, and was sued
by his wife for alimony. She recovered, and had a decree
against him for five hundred dollars per annum. Mrs. Des
Grange never assumed that Clark was her husband, so far as
we are informed from any reliable source. She resided in Louisiana for many years, and until these proceedings had progressed for fifteen years and more, and could have deposed to
the fact of marriage had her daughter seen proper to examine
her as a witness; but this was not done.
It is altogether immaterial, however, whether Clark did or
did not marry Des Grange's vife, as it could be of no value
to the complainant if he did. Clark must have been an innocent and deluded party to give Mrs. Gaines the benefit proposed by the will of 1813-as in case of an adventurer, from
abroad, marrying an innocent single woman, leaving a wife
behind him. There, the childreu of the second marriage cannot be disinherited and condemned; they can take as bastards,
from the mother. So the courts of Louisiana bold. But what
are the facts here? Clark acted in concert with Mrs. Des
Grange and her sisters in sending Des Grange to France, as
agent of his wife's family, to settle up the affairs of an estate
of theirs at Bordeaux. Des Grange was absent about fifteen
months, and in the mean time, and shortly before the expiration of the time, Mrs. Des Grange was delivered of the child
Caroline at Philadelphia, which Clark admitted at all times
before his death was his child. This is an undisputed fact.
Clark acted as-the, friend of Des Grange, and corresponded
with him during his absence, and aided his wife. The criminal connection that was exposed by the birth of the child had
obviously existed before Des Grange was sent to France; and
in the transaction of sending him away, and of prosecuting

DECEM3ER TERM, 1860.

631

Gaes v. Hennen.

him on his return, Mrs. Des Grange, her two sisters, and
Clark, were undoubtedly acting in conjunction. Madame
Cailliviet swears that she set on foot the prosecution against
Des Grange. 12 How., 509, 510.
That Des Grange had a wife living. when he married the
complainant's mother was a mere pretence to cover a nefaxioui
transaction, as is abundantly established by the facts appear
ing in the case reported in 12 Howard. The idea, therefore,
that Clark was an innocent and deluded party, is wholly inadmissible, and must be rejected as the least sustained part of
this remarkable case.
I am of the opinion that the decree of the Circuit Conrl
should be affirmed.
Mr. Justice GRIER dissenting.
I wholly dissent from the opinion of the majority of
the court in this case, both as to the law and the facts.
But I do not think it necessary to vindicate my opinion by
again presenting to ihe public view a history of the scandalous
gossip which has been buried under the dust of halfa century,
and which a proper feeling of delicacy should have suffered
to remain so; I therefore dismiss the case,, as I hope, for- the
last time, with the single remark, that if it be the law of Louisiana that a will can be established by the dim recollections,
imaginations, or inventions of anile gossips, after forty-five
years, to disturb the ities and possessions of bona fide purebisers, without notice, of an apparently indefeasible lega'
title, "taud equidem invideo, miror magis."

