SUPREME COURT.
Davila v. Yiumford etal.

and R., 290, in Pennsylvania; Vaughan v. Phebe, Martin and
Y. R.,. 6, in Tennessee; Chancellor v. Milton, 2 B. Monroe's
R., 25, in Kentucky. In Maryland, no dea-ision is found on
the subject."
In the next place, the record operateson the status'of the
person; it sets him free or-pronounces him a slave, and binds
him by the verdict either way. Shelton v. Barbour, 2 Wash.
Va. R., 82..
In some of the States, the suit may be in equity, and the
status of freedom be established bya decree. Fisher'snegroes
v..Dobbs e t al., 6 Yerg., 119; Reuben .v. Paraish, 6 Humphrey's R., 122.
It is ordered that the judgment of .the Circuit Court be reversed, and the cause remanded for another trial.-

MIGUEL DAVILA, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR)' V: DAVIDMUMOBD AND
JESSE- MUNFORD.
The statute of limitations of Texas provides in its. fiteenth sectiorl, "that every
suit to be.instituted to recover real estate, as against 'im, her, or them, in
possession under title or color of title, shall be instituted- within three years
next after the cause of action shall have accrued, and not afterwards; but in
this limitation is not to be computed the duration of disability to sue from
the minority, coverture, or insanity of him, her, or them, having cause of
iaetion. By the term title, as used in this section, is meant a regular chain
of transfer from or under the sovereignty of the soil; and color of title is, constituted by a consecutive chain of such transfer down to him, her, or them,-in
possession, without being regular; as if one or more of the memorials or
muniments be not registered, or not duly registered, or be only in writing,
jr such like defect as may not extend to or'include the want of intrinsic
fairness and honesty; or when the party in possession shall hibld the saine
by a' certificate of head-right, land warrant, or land scrip, wi h a chain of
transfer down-to him, her, or them, ir possession; and provided, that this
section shall not bar the right of the Government."
&nd the sixteenth section provides, "that he, she, or they, who shall have had
five year like peaceable possession of real estate, cultivating, using, or enjoy:
ing the same, and paying tax thereon, if any, and claiming under a deed or
deeds'duly registered,shall be held to have full title, precluding all claims.
but shall not bar the Government; and, saving to the person" 6r persons hav

-

.DECEMBER.TERM, 1860

-215

Davi7l v. Mumford et al.
ing superior right and cause of action, the duration of disability to sue arising
from nonage, coverture or insanity."
'Ihe construction of the fifteenth section is this: that although the elder title was
on record, the constructive notice thereof to the holder of the junior title was
not sufficient to chirge the latter with a "1want of intrinsic fairness and honesty," so as to prevent the bar of the statute from running.
The sixteenth section commented on, but its meaning not definitively adjudged.
An act of the Republic of Texas cured whatever defects existed in the-power of
the commissioner who issued the grants to the defendants.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the western district of Texas.
The principal question in the case was the construction of
the statute of limitations passed by the State of Texas, which
is discussed in thd opinion of the court, and need not be stated
in this place.
It was argued by Mr. Hale for the plaintiff in error, and
.submitted oh a printed argument by Mr..Ballingerfor the de•fendauts. A cursory view only of the arguments can be given.
Mr. Hale cited authorities in the civil- law, and then pro.
ceeded to comment on the law of Texas.
This -was the state of the law when the Republic of Texas.
obtained its political existence, and it continued to be the rule
of construction until the adoption of the common law, as a
system, in 1840. The thirty-ninth section of the act of Decem-,
ber 2A0, 1836, (Hart. Dig., 2375,) was merely a partial innovation, and is to be construed in reference to the still-existing
rule.
Hart. Dig., 2396.
The introduction of the common law by the act of January
20, 1840, did not introduce the English statutes, and the former law as to prescription remained unchanged up 'to the
passage of the act of February 5, 1841.
Gautier v. Franklin, 1 Tex., 746.
This act, thus passed, under the combined influence of the
commbn and'civil law, as co-existing systems, derived its provisions in some menatire from both. and while the fourteenth

SUPREME COURT
Davila v. Aumford et al.

section is a rude attempt to adopt the doctrine of d, 'seizin, the
fifteenth and sixteenth sections follow distinctions known only
to the Spanish jurisprudence and to the legislatioi' of oni
Western States. Title or color of title-the titulo justo and
colorado of the Spanish jurists-are not required in theE:iglish
law to work a disseiziu, nor do they confer a right to a shorter
period of prescription. They only extend the effect of the
actual disseizin to the boundaries claimed by the deed under
which the entry is made, and no reference is had, therefore, to
the derivation of the title or the mode of its acquisition. But
in the peculiar land law of those Western States whi.ch contributed most to the settlement of Texas, a possession held
under a connected title was sometimes made to confer greater
privileges, and to be sufficient for prescription in a shorter
term. (See in Tennessee, act of 1797, c. 43, sec. 4; in Louisiana, Code Civ., arts. 3445, 3414, 3415; Illinois, act of 1839,
"to quiet possessions," etc.)
Under this new rule of limitation it was no longer indifferent to inquire into the character of the title of the possessor
or the mode by which he obtained it, for both the character
and the mode qualified the possession. The courts of Tennessee, Louisiana, and Illinois, while this rule continued in
force, have therefore held thlat the occupant, claiming the benefit of this short period of limitation, must show that he had
held with a just confidence in his title and an honest belief in
its superiority. "Color of title," says the Supreme Court of
Tennessee, "is where the possessor has a conveyance of 'some
sort, by deed, or will, or inheritance, which lie may believe to
be a title. This cannot be said of any b-ond or entry, which
only entitles the party to a conveyance hereafter. Every one
knows that is not a title, and of course cannot improve under
it with a belief that he is improvingknder a legal title."
Wilson v. Kilcannon et al., 4 Hay., 185.
And again: "The reason of the law is attained -hen we require a bonafide deed for land (which has beeni granted) to the
defendant himself. It shows that he is not a trespasser, and
that he took possession of the land, believing it to be his
own."

DECEMBER TER1M, 1860.

217

Davila v. Atumford et al.

Hampton v. McGinnis, 1 Tenn., 291.
This seems to have been the construction adopted by this
cL urt when defining "a color of title-a deed acquired in good
fait7.
Patton's Lessee v. Easton, 1 Wheat., 476.
Gregg v. Sayre and wife, 8 Peters, 253-4.
Andrews v. Mulford, 1 Hayw. N. C., 320.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana has often said, in accordance, indeed, with the direct provisions of the civil code, that
a title acquired in bad faith or with a knowledge of the better
title will not sustain prescription.
Reeves v. Towles, 10 La., 283-6.
Devall v. Chopin et-al., 15 La., 578.
Sandoz v. Gary, 11 Rob., 531.
Hughey v. Barrow, 4 Ann., 252.
And upon this point, a reference may also be made to the
;
nice distinctions of thie French jurists.
Tropi. Prescription, arts. 918, 933.
Duranton, vol. 21, No. 386.
Merlin, Repertoire, tit. Prescription, 1, 5, 4.
And compare Cod. Nap., art. 550._
In none of the Western States, however, except in Louisiana and Illinois, is there any expression in: the' statutes of
[imitation which .seems to -indicate that good faith is neces3ary in the shorter periods of possession, and the courts of the
other States have, therefore, been compelled to decline to introduce, by construction, an exception not contained in the
low. The difference, in this respect, of the act of limitation
of Texas, gives a greater weight to our position, since it shows
an intention to require an additional requisite in the definition
of "color of title," and to look for a rule rather to the principles of the civil than the common law.
This view is, if not confirmed, at least supported by the intimations derived from the course of judicial decision in Texas.
In the case of Charle v. Saffold, (13 Tex., 94,) the question
was, whether a void will was sufficient color of title, not to
sustain a possession of three years under the fifteenth sectioii,
but to extend an adverse possession of tdn years to the bound-

SUPREME COURT.
Davila v. Mumford et al.

aries of the entire tract under the fourteenth section. And
the court assumes that it is sufficient for this purpose, and remarks: "The object of the statute, in its longer terms, is not.
to settle questions in relation to good or bad faith, the right or
the wrong. of possession ; it proceeds on other principles."
(P. 112.) In Marsh v. Weir, (21 Tex., 97,) the court refuse to
apply the general doctrine, of Oharle v. Saffold to "color of
title," as defined in the.fifteenth section. "The definition of
'color of title' in this section is certainly very different from
that which has been given by courts to these terms; that is,
'that which in appearance is.- title, but which in reality is no
title.' (Wright v. Mattison, 18 Howard R., 56.) That is not
the color of title defined in this section; and the statute having
defined thm terms, we must look to the statute for their meaning." (P. 109.). And the court, therefore, hold that a grant
which had been revoked or pronounced null by the political
authority was not a basis for the limitation of three years.
The same.position is also taken and extended in the case of
Smith v. Power, (23 Tex., 29.)
It is t~eless, therefore, to advert to the decisions of the
courts of thecommon-law States, which have given other attributes- to a colorable title, or t6 the cases which have been
decided in this court upon the common-law theories of adverse
possession and decision. The act of limitations of Texas is
based upon .a different view, and requires the application of
other analogies.
A portion of 1Tr. Ballinger's reply was as follows:
To ascertain what is meant by "color of title," Mr. Hale
refers to the civil law; but the act itself is its complete expositor. Our Supreme Court say, "the statute having defined
the meaning of the terms employed, we are not at liberty in
construing this section to resort to other sources for their definition and meaning." (21 T., 109.) It is a direct deraignment of title from the Government; not strictly "regular;" one
which purports to transfer the right, but does not in a perfect
and formal manner. A patent would be title. That did not
need to be expressed. But the statute, in appositibn to it,

DECEMBER TERM, 1830.
Davila v. . mford et al.

explains color of title as from the Government. The location
of a head-right certificate, laud warrant, or scrip, is declared
color of title. It leaves the fee in the Government, but is a
character of right to maintain ejeetment, (see. 1 same Act
Lim., Hart. Dig., 3230,) and is a vested right of property.
Howard v. Herry, 7 Tex., 266.
Hamilton v. Avery, 20 T., 635.
So if the mesne conveyances are not "regular," which is at
once illustrated-" as if" not registered, or only in writing,
without a seal, (13 T., 131,) "or such like defect," &c.; the'
plain intent being to embrace any instrument purporting and
intended to be a conveyance, and equitably conveying the
right of the grantor, although defective in strict law. A bond
is not color, of title, because it does not purport to be a transfer; (13 T., 128.) "Color of title" had its fixed signification
in the statutes of Texas with reference to the character of the
conveyance, ex .facie, and not to its operation from extrinsic
causes, or to any good faith in its-holder. The 37th section,
"Act organizing inferior courts," &c., December 20, 1836, pro.
vides that any person who owns or claims land- of any description, by deed, lien, or any other color of title, shall have the
same recorded, &c. The 38th section specifies the proof to be
made in order to record "all titles, liens, mortgages, or Dther
color of title."
Hart. D., 2754-5.
The 39th section is the first limitation law of Texas. It
provides that-"Any actual settler who is a citizen of this Republic, who
may have and-hold peaceable possession of any tract or parcel
of land under a color of title, duly proven and recorded in
the proper county, for a term of five years from and after recording of said color of title or titles, his, her, or their claim,
shall be considered good and valid, barring the claim or claims
of any and every person or persops whatsoever," &6.
The only decision that I call to mind upoif this act of limitation is Jones v. 'Menard, (1 T., 171,) in which a possession
f five years after record of the junior grant was held.a bar.
It is true there is no discussion of the 1)oint whether the junior

SUPREME COURT.
Davila v. Mumford et al.

grant is color of title, for the simple reason that no one
thought to doubt it. In Marsh v. Weir, (21 T. 97,) the construction of the 15th section, act 1841, is discussed. It was
held that a grant expressly revoked or annulled by the Ayuntamiento was not title or color of title, because it was then
"as though it had never issued-absolutely and to all intents
and purposes a nullity;" bat that a junior and inferior grant,
good as against the Government, "apparently Valid, but liable
to be avoided and annulled by some matter extrinsic of the
grant," does constitute color of title. In Smith v. Power, (23
T., 33,) the matter is settled with the utmost precision. The
Chief Justic& says:
"To constitute such title or color of title, there must be a
'chain of transfer from or under the sovereignty of the soil.'
This necessarily presupposes a grant from the Governmentas
the basis of such transfer. And the grant must be effectual
to convey to the grantee whatever right or title the Government had in the land at-the time of making the grant. It
need not necessaril5, carry with it the paramount title; but
it must be title as, against the Government, valid in itself,
when tested by itself and not tried by the title of others. It
must have intrinsic validity as between the parties to it, though
it may be relatively void ds respects the rights of third persons."
The case of Scott v. Rhea, (5 T., 258,) again before the court,
(21 T., 708,) shows clearly that want of notice of the prior
title is not an element of "title or color of title" under the
statute. (And to same effect see Wheeler v. Moody, 9 T., 372;
Horton v. Crawford, 10 T., 882; Castro -v. Wurzbach, 13 T.,
128; Mason v. McLaughlin, 16 T., 24; Williamson v. Simpson, Id.; 44-4.)
The case of Christy v. Alford, (17 How., 601,) shows that
such a construction was unheard of then in the court below
and-in this court. (See agreement of counsel as to facts, p. 604.)
There has'never been a plea of three years' limitation in Texas
which did not involve this question. Should it not be cosidered, settled tba' it has 'never even been mooted?

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

221

Davila v. .rumford et al.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the District Court of the United'
States for the western district of Texas.
The suit was brought against the defendants and others-to
recover the possession of eleven square leagues of land, situate
in what was formerly known as the county of Milam, on the
right bank of the river San Andres, otherwise called Little
river, where Buffalo creek .and Donaho's creek enfer said
river, with specified boundaries.
The plaintiff gave in evidence a grant from the. Government

of Coahuila and Texas, within the limits 6f the colony of the
empresarios, Austin and Williams, dated 18th October, 1833,
and rested.
The defendants gave in. evidence grants from the same
Government of a league each, situate within the boundaries
of the eleven leagues, the one to David Mumford, dated 20th
March, 1835, the other to Jesse Mumford, dated 25th February, the same year; the former went into possession in the
spring of 1844, and continued in the possession and cultivation of the tract down to the time of trial; the latter took.
possession in the year 1850, and continued the cultivation and
improvement down to the trial.
The defence relied on is the statute of limitations.
The court charged that the plaintiff and defendants both
claimed under titles emanating from the sovereignty of the
soil; that the plaintiff's was the elder in point of date, and
must be regarded as paramount, unless the defendants were
protected by the statute of limitations set up in defence.
That if the jury believed friom the evidence the defendants
had held actual adverse and peaceable possession, in their
own right, for more than three years next before the commencement of the suit, under color of title, and that the plaintif.'s cause of action accrued more than three-yeas prior to
the suit, the jury should find for the defendants.
The court further charged, that if' the jpiry .belioved froin
the evidence that the defendants had helld actual adverse ahd
peaceable possession in their own right, cultivating, using,
and enjoying the lands, and paying taxes thereon, and claiim

SUPREME COURT.
Davila v. flumford et al.

ing under a deed or deeds duly recorded,'for more than five
years next before the commencement of the suit, they should
find for the defeudants.
The 15th section of the act of limitations of Texas provides,
"that every suit to be instituted to recover real estate as
against him, her, or them, in possession, under title or color
of title, shall be instituted within three years next after the
cause of action shall have accrued, and not afterwards;" and
provides that, "by the term title, as used in this section, is meant
a regular chain of transfer fiom or under the sovereignty of the
soil; and color of title is constituted by a consecutive chain of
such transfers down to him, her, or them, in possession, without being regular, as.if one or more of the memorials or muniments be not registered, or not duly registered, or be only
in writing, or such like defect as may not extend to or include
the-want of intrinsic fairness and honesty."
The principal ground taken against the operation and effect
of the three years' limitation in'the present cause is, that the
elder title being on record, the defefidants had constructive
notice of the same at the time of the.grants to them, and
hence that, the title is subject to the charge of the "want of
intrinsic fairness az.d honesty ' ; within the meaning. of the
statute, whi6h it is claimed removes the bar of three years'
adverse possession.
It is -admitted that this clause of the statute has not yet
received a construction by the courts of Texas, and there is
certainly some difficulty in ascertaining the precise meaning
intended-by the'Legislature from the phraseology used. The
better opinion, we think, is, that the want of ihitrinsic fairness
and honesty, in the connection in which the words are found,
relates to some infirniity in the muniments of title, or deduction of title, of the, defendailt, indicating a want of good faith
in obtaining it.
The statute, in defining what is, intended by possession,
"under title, and color of title," in order to operate as a bar
within the three years, declares, that by the term "title" "ib
meant a regular chain of transfer from or under the sovereignty of the soil," which, as is apparent, is the case before us,

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

223

Davil&v. Atumford et al.

-

the title of the defendants being directly from the Government; and " color of title" is declared to be "a consecutive
,chain of such trausfero,Iown to him, her, or them, in possession, without being regit&r, as if one or more of the memorials
or muniments be not registered, or not duly registered, or be
only in writing, or such like defect as may not extend to or
include the want of intrinsic fairness and honesty;" clearly
referring, as we think again, to the muniments of the title,
and defects therein.
To refer these words to a constructive or actual notice of an
elder title would, in the practical effect of the limitation, be a
virtual repeal of the. statute, especially in all, cases in which
the elder title is of record.
A statute of limitations is founded upon the idea of an elder
and better title outstanding, and prescribes a period of posses-sion and cultivation of the land,' under the junior or inferior
title, as a bar to the elder, for the repose of society; thereby
settling the title by lapse of time' and preventing litigation.
As it respects the five years' limitation, the objection is, that
-the grants wete.not duly registered, and hence the possession
not within the 16th section of the act. The grant to David
Mumford was registerecl on the 21st July, 1838, and that to
Jesse on the 4th October-of the same yeair.
It is insisted, however, that the registries were a nullity, on
the ground- that the execition of the grants had not been
properly proved Pr acknowledged, in order to be admitted of
recora.
.Inthe case of the grant to David, the recorder certifies that
the deed was presented to him, proven, and duly recorded in
his office the day above mentioned; and in that of Jesse, that
the deed was proved for record by J. B. Chance, who made
oath that he Was familiar with the handwriting of the commissioner, W.:H. Steele, and also of the assisting witnesses,
and that he believed-the several signatures to be genuine.
There is some difficulty in determining, from the various
decisions of the courts of Texas upon the.registry act of 1836,
whether :r not the certificates of proof of the grants in the
present case were sufficient to permit them to registry at the

SUPREME COURT.
7
t Roeder et al.
Chandlerv. Yo

time they were filed for record. It is claimed for the defend.
ants that the recording of the grants was confirmed by the
act of 1839, which provided that "copies of all deeds, &c.,
when the originals remain in the public archives, and were
executed in conformity with the laws existing at their dates,
duly certified by the proper officers, shall be admitted to record
in the county where such land lies." This act relates to the
colonists' titles delivered to the grantee, the originals remaining
as public archives. The deeds in the present case are copies
of the originals remaining in the archives, and are certified by
Steele, the commissioner, that they agree with the original
titles which exist in the archives, from which they are taken
for the parties interested, the day of their date, in the form
provided by the law. In addition to this certificate, the copies,
which it seems are executed by the commissioner, and are
second originals, were proved before the recorder at the time
they were admitted to registry. But be this as it may, we are
not disposed to look very critically into the question of the
registry, though we cannot say the court was in error in respect to it, inasmuch as the defence was complete under the
statute of three years' limitation, as already explained.
An objection has been taken that the grants of the defendants are a nullity, upon the ground that Steele, the commissioner, had no authority to act in that capacity in the colony
of Nashville, or Robertson, at their date. But this defect was
cured by the act of the Republic of Texas in 1841, as has been
repeatedly held by the courts of Texas. (2 Tex. R., 1 and 37;
9 Ib., 348, 372; 23 Tex. R., 113 and 234; 22 Ib., 161 and 21;
Ib., 722; 20 How. R., 270.)
The judgment of the court-below affirmed.

JAMES A. CHANDLER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. OTTO VON ROEDER, HAMIILTON LEDBETTER, AND CHARLES VON ROSENBURG.
ft is the duty of the court to determine the competency of evidence and to decide all legal questions that arise in the progi-ess of a trial; and consequently,

