DECEMBER TERM. 1860.
Howardv. Bugbee.

subject, in which the Chief Justice suggests the difficulties of

a court of law dealing with this description of property with a
proper regard to the rights of all conaerned.
In that case the bill was filed on the equity side of the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Maryland, to
restrain a sale of the defendant's property on execution. Gue,
the judgment creditor, was a resident of Pennsylvania.
We shall not look into the questions raised upon the mortgage, whether executed by the proper authority, or if it was,
whether it covered after-acquired property, as not material to
the case before us. The latter question was fully examined in
this court in the case above referred to, of Pennock v. Coe.
Neither shall we inquire into the questions raised under the
attachment laws of Massachusetts, as they are unimportant in
our view of the case.
Upon the whole, after the fullest consideration of the case.
and utmost respect for the learning and ability of the court
below, we are constrained to differ from it, and reverse the
judgment.

TiAcnR

B.

HOWARD,

PiAINTIFF IN ERROR,

V. FRANCIS

BUGBEE.

A smaute of the State of Alabama, authorizing a redemption of mortgaged property in two years after the sale under a decree, by bona fide creditors of the
mortgagor, is unconstitutional and void as to sales made under mortgages executed prior to the date of its enactment, as impairing the obligation of the
contract.

This question was decided by this court in the case of Bronson v. Kinzie, 1
Howard, 311, and the decision has been since repeatedly affirmed.

THIS case was brought up from the Slpreme Court of the
State of Alabama, by a writ of error issfied under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argu ed by Xr. Phillips for .the plaintiff in error, and

SUPREME COURT.
Howard v. Bugbee.

submitted on a printed argument by Mr. Clay for the defend.
ant.
Mr. Phillips stated the case, and then proceeded with hi&-argfiment.
The statute under consideration is in all respects like that
which in'Bronson v. Kinzie was held to be unconstitutional
There the question was, whether the mortgagee was not entitled to.an absolute sale, regardless of the statute. Here the
question is, whether the purchaser, under such a sale, can be
deprived of his right tothe fee siwiple by virtue of the redemption provided by the statute. As the purchaser under a foreclosure suit is vested with all the rights of the mortgagee, the
question as to the validity of the statute must be the-same,
whether applied to the one or the other.
The case of Grautley v. Ewing, 3 Howard, 716, in which the.
statute was determined to be unconstitutional, was, as in this,
a contest with the purchaser, and only differs from it in the
fact that the obnoxious statute was passed after the decree, but
before the sale, while in this case it was passed before the
decree.
-An unconstitutional statute is no more obligatory on 'State.
than on Federal tribunals. It is absolutely void to -all intents
and purposes. It cannot, therefore, be said that such a.statute
controlled the decree -and the purchase made under it. The'
purchaser was vested, by the register's de6d, with full and absolute property, and cannot be divested by the terms of a statute which the State had not constitutional authority to enact.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Alabama in this case
is founded upon their previous decision in Iverson v. Shorter,
and very frankly and naively admits that "the decision in
Iverson v. Shorter is a plain departure from the principle upon
which the Supreme Court of the United States asserted in
Bronson v. Kinzie the unconstitutionality of the statute of
Illinois."
It would seem, therefore, to be confessed by the State court,
that if this court adhere to its decision in Bronson v. Kinzie,
their own judgment in this case must be reversed.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

463

Howard v. Bugbee.

See, also, McCracken v. Haywood, 2 Howard, 612.
Mr. Clay contended that the statute of Alabama did not
impair the obligation of a contract, for the following reasons:
The distinction between rights and remedies, between those
statutes which confer a right, and those which furnish a remedy for the enforcement of that right, is so marked that under
ordinary circumstances I would not deem it necessary to offer
any remnarks upon it. The one inheres in and follows the
contract wherever it may go. The other is dependent on the
local legislation of the Place where the parties seek to enforce
the right. This distinction is taken in the following cases:
The People v. Tibbetts, 4 Cow., 384.
Baughn v. Nelson, 9 Gill, 299.
United States Bank v Longworth, 1 McL., 35.
Pratt v. Jones, 25 Verm., 303.
Searcy v. Stubbs, 12 Ge'o., 437.
Paschal v. Perez, 7 Texas, 348.
Hope v. Johnson, 2 Yerg., 125.
Maltby v. Cooper, 1 Morris, 59.
West v. Creditors, 1 La. Ann. Rep., 365.
Newton v. Tiblbets, 2 Eng. (Ark.,) 150.
Rodkwell v. Hubbell, 2 Doug., 197.
It is also well drawn in the able dissenting opinion of Justice McLean, in the case of Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How. U. S.,
311, 322. See, also, the cases cited in-the opinion of Oh. J.
Walker, of the Alabama Supreme Court.
The statute of 1842 takes away no right. It leaves the debt
unimpaired, leaves the debtor's property subject to the debt,
and only modifies the form of enforcing the decree. -It does
not take away all substantial remedy, which, it is conceded.
would impair the obligation of the contract. it. simply enlarges the time, at the completion of which the purchaser at
the mortgage sale will acquire.an indefeasible title. It does
not weaken the binding efficacy of the mortgage, nor does it
impair the mortgagee's lien. It but changes the remedy for
the enforcement of the lien.

SU-PREME COURT.
Howard v. Bugbee.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Alabama.
The case was this:
Enoch Parsons executed a mortgage of the premises in controversy, on the 9th December, 1836, to Sarah .Tait, to secure
the payment of $13,246.66. The last instahnent fell due in
January, 1841. In March, 1846, proceedings were instituted
in the court of chancery to foreclose the mortgage for default
in payment; and in September, 1848, Howard, the appellant,
became the purchaser of the premises, under the decree of
foreclosure, and held a deed of the same duly executed by the
proper officer.
In January, 1842, the Legislature of the State of Alabama
passed an act authorizing a judgment crediior of the mortgagor, or of his estate, at any time within two years after the
sale under a mortgage, to redeem thxe land from the purchase
on paying the purchase money, with a certain per cent. interest, besides charges.
Bugbee, the appellee, and plaintiff in the court below, having
recovered a judgment against the estate of Parsons in 1843,
tendered within the two years the' purchase money; interest.
and charges, to Howard, and also a deed of the premises to be
executed; all, of which were refused. This bill was filed in
the court of chancer6 in -Alabama by Bugbee to compel Howard to receive the money in redemption of the sale and execute the deed.
The main ground of the -defence in that suit was, that the
mortgage from Parsons, under which the defendant derived
title, having been executed before the passage of the act providing for the redemption, the act, as respected this debt was
inoperatiye and void, as impairing the obligation of the contract.
The court of chancery so held and dismissed the bill. But
on appeal to the Supreme Court, that c6urt reversed the decree below, and, entered a decree for the complainant. The
case is now .here ou a writ of error to the Supreme Court.
The only question involved in this case was decided in Bron-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

465

Perinet al. v. Carey et a.

son v. Kinzie, 1 How., 311. It was there held, after a very
careful and extended examination by the court, through the
Chief Justice, that the State law impaired the obligation of the
mortgage contract, and was forbidden by the Constitution.
This decision has since been repeatedly affirmed. 2 How.,
612; 3 Ib., 716.
It is due to the judges of the court below to say that they
felt bound by a decision of their predecessors, which they
admitted to be in direct conflict with the case of Bronson v.
Kinzie, and that the two decisions could not be reconciled.
We are entirely satisfied with the soundness of the decision
in the aboie case,, and wi. the grounds and reasons upon
which it is placed, and shall simply refer to them as governing.
the present case.,
Decree below reversed. Case remitted with~irections to
enter decree for the plaintiff in error.

CHARLES MCMICREN PERIN, CLYDE PERN; AND MARY E. PERIN,
INFANTS, BY THEIR FATHER AND NEXT FRIEND, FRANKLIN
PERIN, COMPLAINANTS AND APPELLANTS, v. FREEMAN G.'
CAREY, WILLIAM CROSSMAN, AND WILT.iAm M. F. HEwSoN,
EXECUTORS OF THE LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT OF CHARLES
MCMICKEN, DECEASED, THE CITY OF CINCINNATI, ELIZABETH
RANDALL, DAVID P. STELLE, AND ELIZABETH STELLE, HIS WIFE,
AD A.DREW MCMICKEN, RESPONDENTS.
Charles McMicken, a citizen and resident of Cincinnati, -in Ohio, made.his will
in 1855, and died in March, .1858, without issue.
He devised certain real and personal property to the city of Cincinnati and its
successors, in trust forever for the purpose of building, establishing, and maintaining as far as practicable, two colleges for the education of boy- and girls.
None of the property devised, or which the city may purchase for the benefit
of the colleges, should at any time be sold. In all applications for admission
to the colleges, a preference was to be given to any and all of the testator's
relations and descendants, to all and any of his legatees and their descendants,
and to Mrs. McMicken and her descendants.
1i1there should be a surplus, it was to be applied to makipg additional buiidings,
aind .to the support of poor white male and female orphans,. neither of whose
80
VoL. XX=.

