SUPREME COURT.
JVhceler v. Mesbiti et al.

Irrespective of the guaranty, it is difficult to see how Hook
could have any interest in the profits as a partner with the
plaintifi. He had no interest in the property, and by the
arrangement which lie himself negotiated, the cigars were to
renman for sale in the custody and control of the defendants,
as commission merchants, and they stood responsible to the
plaintiff for the proceeds. But he did not rely upon the profits
tbr his compensation, for unless one-half the profits exceeded
eighteen hundred dollars a year, he would neither be benefited
nor injured by the success or failure of the adventure, except
so far as the latter result might have a tendency to induce his
employer to dispense with his services. Little or nothing was
ever realized friom the enterprise, and of course no excess of
profits over the amount of the guaranty was ever earned. It
is quite obvious, therefore, that the theory of the defendants
on this branch of the case cannot be sustaine(.
2. It is insisted by the defendants that Hook was the agent
of the plaintiff, and as such that lie had authority to withdraw
the cigars fiom their custody and control, and turn them over
to the other firm. On that point, the presiding justice instructed the jury that there was no evidence in the case to
support that theory, and, after a careful examination of the
evidence exhibited in the transcript, we entirely concur in that
view ot" the case; and the judgment of the Circuit Court is
therefwe affirmed, with costs.

JOH'N J. WHEELER, PLAINTIFF IN EitROR,
BITT,

JEI'OME

CARDINO, FIEDERICK

M.

r.

ANDREW

J.

XES-

BINKLEY, JAMES D.

TRIMBLLE, WILSON J. MATHIS, AND IOBERT MCNEELY.
When the genera! issue is pleaded t,.,a action on the case tbr a malicious criminal prosecution, the plaintiff must prove, in the first place, the fact of the
prosecution, that the delkdant was himself" the prosecutor, or ii tigated the
proceeding, and that it fiially terminated in favor of the party accused.
He must also prove that the charge against him was unfounded, that it was
made without reasonable or probable cause, and that thie defendant, in making
or instigating it, was actuatpd by malio,

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

545

Wheeler v. Nesbitt et al.
Probable cause is the existence of such facts and circumstances as would excito
the belief in a reasonable mind, acting on the facts within the knowledge of
the prosecutor, that the person charged was guilty of the crime for which he
was prosecuted.
Where the court told the jury that the want of probable cause afforded a presumption of malice, but that such presumption might be rebutted by other
evidence showing that the party acted bona fide, and in the honest discharge.
of what he believed to be his.duty, it was not error in the court to add, in the
same connection, that if, however, the jury find that the arrest was wanton
and reckless, and that no circumstances existed to induce a reasonable and
dispassionate man to believe that he was guilty of the charge preferred against
him, then the jury ought to infer malice, except, perhaps, the closing paragraph is put rather strongly in favor of the plaintiff.
Whether the prosecution was or was not commenced from malicious motives,
was a question of fact, and it was for the jury to determine whether the inference of malice was a reasonable one from the facts assumed in the instruc
tion; but the error, if it be one, forms no ground of exception by the plaintiff,
because it was in his favor.
As the magistrate who issued the warrant was one of the parties sued in this
case, it was proper for the court below to instruct the jury that if there was
probable cause for the arrest of the party, he could lawrully be detained for a
reasonable time, owing to the neglect on his part to offer any satisfactory
security for his appearance at the time appointed for examination.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the middle district of Tennessee.
In September, 1856, John J. Wheeler arrived at the small
town of Charlotte, in Tennessee, about eight o'clock at night,
in company with two Irishmen, the whole three being indifferently clad. Whieeler had four fine horses; each of the Irishmen was riding one of the horses, with a sack and blanket to
sit upon instead of a saddle. The defendants in error (except
Trimble) arrested the whole three, on suspicion of having
stolen the horses, and carried them before Trimble, who was
a justice of the peace, and who sent them to jail for a week.
At the end of that time they procured satisfactory evidence of
character, and were discharged. Wheeler then brought an
action on the case for a.malicious criminal prosecution. The
rulings of the court below are given in the opinion of this
court.
.voL. xxiv.
85

SUPREME COURT.
Wheeler v. Nesbitt et al.

It was submitted on printed argument by Mr. Underwood for
the plaintiff in error, and argued by Mr. Phillipsfor the de
fendants.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the middle district of Tennessee. John J. Wheeler,
the plaintiff in error, complained in the court below against
the present defendants in a plea of trespass on the case, as will
more fully appear by reference to the declaration which is set
Forth at large in the transcript. It alleged three distinct causes
of action, and each cause of action was set forth in two sepa,-ate counts. All of the counts, however, were founded upon
the same transaction, so that a brief reference to the first, Lhird,
and fifth of the series will be sufficient to exhibit the substance
of the declaration, and the nature of the supposed grievances
for which the suit was instituted. First, the plaintiff alleged
that the defendants, falsely and maliciously contriving and intending to iniure him in his good name and reputation, on the
eighteenth day of September, 1856, at a certain place within
the jurisdiction of the court below, went before a certain justice of the peace for that county, and falsely and maliciously,
and without any reasonable or probable cause, charged the
plaintiff with having feloniously stolen four horses, which be
then and there had in his possession, and caused and procured
the magistrate .to grant a warrant, under his hand and seal,
for the apprehension of.the plaintiff, upon that false, malicious,
and groundless charge; and that lie, the plaintiff, was accordingly arrested by virtue of the warrant so procured, and falsely
and maliciously, and without any reasonable or probable cause,
imprisoned in the prison-house of the State there situate for
the space of seven days; and that at the expiration of that
period he was fully acquitted and discharged of the supposed
offence, and that the prosecution for the same was wholly
ended and determined. Secondly, the plaintiff alleged that
the defendants, on the same day and at the same place, with
force and arms assaulted him, the plaintiff, and forced and
compelled him to go to the prison-house of the State there

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Wheer v. Nesbilt et al.

situate, and then and there falsely and maliciously, and without any reasonable or probable cause, imprisoned him for the
space of seven days, contrary to the laws and customs of the
State. Thirdly, the plaintiff alleged that the defendants, on
the same day and at the same place, did unlawfully and falsely
conspire, combine, and agree among themselves and with
others, that the first-named defendant, with a view to procure
a warrant for the arrest and imprisonment of the plaintiff,
should go before a certain magisttate of the county, and make
oath, according to law, that he, the complainant, verily believed that the plaintiff with two other persons, had committed
the aforesaid offence, and that the other defendants in this suit
should attend the preliminary examination of the plaintiff
before the magistrate, and then and there aid, abet, and assist
the complai'nant, by their testimony, influence, and advice, in
prosecuting the charge; and the plaintiff averred that the defendants so far carried their corrupt and evil conspiracy and
agreement into effect, that they procured the warrant from the
magistrate by the means contemplated, and that he, the plaintitfl
was then and there arrested by virtue of the same, and
imprisoned upon that false, malicious, and groundless accusation for the space of seven days, and that at the. expiration of
that period he was fully acquitted and dischargel of-the supposed offence. Such is the substance of the declaration, so far
as itis deemed material to reproduce it at th0 present time.
Testimony was introduced by the plaintiff tending to show
that he was the lawful owner of the four horses described in
the warrant on which he was arrested; and he also proved,
without objection, that he had always sustained a good character in the neighborhood where he resided. He also introduced a duly-certified copy of the complaint made against him
by the first-named defendant, and a duly-certified copy of the
warrant issued by the magistrate. Those copies show that the
complainant, on the eighteenth day of August, 1856, made
the a~cusation under oath, as required by the law of the State,
and that the magistrate thereupon granted the warrant for the
apprehension of the plaintiff together with two other persons,
who were jointly accused with him of the same offence. Both

SUPREME COURT.
Wrheeler v. Nesbitt et al.

the complaint and warrant were in regu*lar form, and the latter
contained the usual directions, that the persons accused should
forthwith be brought before the magistrate who issued it, or
some other justice of the peace for the county, to answer to
the charge, and be dealt with as the law directed. Whether
the officer made any formal return on the precept or not does
not appear; but it is stated in the bill of exceptions that the
warrant was placed in the hands of the sheriff, and that the
persons accused of the offence, including the plaintiff, were on
the same day brought before the magistrate for trial. When
brought into court they were not prepared for the examination, and at their request the trial was postponed for twelve
days, or until they should have sufficient time to procure the
attendance of certain witnesses, wlose testimony was necessary, as they represented, to establish their defence; and the;
minutes of the proceedings before the magistrate state, in effect,
that the accused, "not being able to give any security for their
appearance" at the time appointed for the trial, "or not offer.
ing.to give any, the sheriff was directed to hold them in custody to answer to the charge." Pursuant to that order the
plaintiff, as well as the other persons accused, remained in the
custody of the sheriff, and were kept by him in the prisonhouse of the State there situate until the witnesses of the
plaintiff appeared; and on the twenty-fifth day of September,
1856, they were again brought before the magistrate, and after
the witnesses on both sides were examined, all of the accused
were fully acquitted and.discharged of the alleged ofibnce. To
show that the prosecution was groundless, and without any
reasonable or probable cause, the plaintiff examined several
witnesses to prove the circumstances under which he was arrested, and the substance of the evidence adduced against him
at the trial before the magistrate. One of the defendants is
the magistrate who granted the warrant, and the other defendants were witnesses for the State in the criminal prosecution.
All of the defendants were citizens of the State of Tennessee,
and the plaintiff -was a citizen of the State of Kentucky, and
it did not appear that the parties had any acquaintance with
each other prior to this transaction. No attempt was made

DEOENIBER TERM, 1860.

549

Wheeler v. Mesbitt et al.

-

on the part of the plaintiff to prove express malice, and there
was no direct evidence of any kind to support the allegation
of conspiracy. On the other hand, the defendants insisted
that there was no evidence to support the charge of conspiracy
or of false imprisonment, and that the prosecution was instituted in good faith, and conducted throughout upon reasonable and probable cause; and to establish that defence they
called and examined several witnesses to prove what the evidence was which was given against the plaintiff at the trial
before the magistrate. Without entering into particulars, it
will be sufficient to say that the evidence adduced by the defendants had some tendency to maintain the defence. Under
the rulings and instructions of the court the jury returned
their verdict in favor of the defendants, and the plaintiff excepted to the charge of the court. Unaided by the assignment
of errors, it would be difficult to ascertain, with any degree of
certainty, to what particular part of the charge of the court
the exceptions were intended to apply. But that difficulty is
so far obviated by the specifications contained in the printed
argument filed for the plaintiE, that with some hesitation we
have concluded that the case, as presented in the transcript, is
one which may be re-examined in this court.
1. Among other things, the presiding justice instructed the
jury that in order to excuse the defendants on the first two
counts in the declaration, it must appear that they had probable cause for the prosecution of the plaintiff for the offence
described in the complaint and warrant, or that they acted
boina fide without malice. Objection is made by the counsel
of the plaintiff to this part of the charge of the court; but we
think it was quite as favorable to him'as the well-settled rules
of law upon the subject would possibly allow. To support an
action for a malicious criminal prosecution the plaintiff must
prove, in the first place, the fact of prosecution, and that the
defendant was himself the prosecutor, or that he instigated its
commencement, and that it finally terminated in his acquittal.
He must also prove that the charge preferred against him was
unfounded, and that it was made without reasonable or probable cause, and that the defendant in making or instigating it

SUPREME COURT.
Wheeler v. Nesbil et al.

was actuated by malice. Proof of these several facts is indis.
pensable to support the declaration, and clearly the burden of
proof in the first instance is upon the plaintiff to make out his
case, and if he fails to do so in any one of these particulars,
the defendant has no occasion to offer any evidence in his
defence. Undoubtedly, every person who puts the criminal
law in force maliciously, and without any reasonable or probable cause, commits a wrongful act; and if the accused is
thereby prejudiced, either in his person or property, the injury
and loss so sustained constitute the proper foundation of an
action to recover compensation. Malice alone, however, is not
sufficient to sustain the action, because a person actuated by
the plainest malice may nevertheless prefer a well-founded
accusation, and have a justifiable reason for the prosecution
of the charge. Want of reasonable and probable cause is as
much an element in the action for a malicious criminal prosecutiou as the evil motive which prompted the prosecutor to
make the accusation; and though the averment is a negative
one in its form and character, it is nevertheless a material
clement of the action, and must be proved by the plaintiff by
some affirmative evidence, unless the defendant dispenses with
such proof by pleading singly the truth of the several facts
involved in the charge. Morris v. Corson, 7 Cow., 281. Either
of these allegations may be proved by circumstamces, and it is
unquestionably true that want of probable cause is evidence
of malice, but it is not the same thing; and unless it is shown
that both concurred in the prosecution, or that the one was
combined with the other in makiilg or instigating the charge,
the plaintiff is not entitled to recover in an action of this description. Add. on W. and R. Accordingly, it was held in
Foshay v. Ferguson, 4 Den., 619, that even proof of express
malice was not enough without showing also the want of probable cause; and the court go on to say, that however innocent
the plaintiff may have been of the crime laid to his charge, it
is enough for the defendant to show that he had reasonable
grounds for believing him guilty at the-time the charge was
madc. Similar views were also exlressed in Stone v. Crocker,
24 Pick., 83. There are two things, say the court in that case,

DECEMA3EI TERM, 1860.
W7~eeer v. Nesbit et aL.

which are not only. indispensable t6 the sul~port of the action,
but lie at the foundation of it. The plaintiff must show that
the defendant acted from malicious motives in prosecuting him,
and that h6 had no sufficient reason to believe him to be guilty.
If either'of these be wanting, the"action must fail; and so are
all the authorities from a very early period to the present time
Golding v. Crowle, Sayer, 1; Farmer v Darling, 4 Burr, 1,974
1 Hillard on T., 460.
It is true, as before 'remarked, that want of probable cause
is evidenc8 of malice'for the consideration of the jury; but
the converse of the'proposition cannot be sustained. Nothing
will meet the exigencies of the case, so far as respects the
allegation thap probable cause was- wanting, except lroof of
the fact; and, the onus probandi, as was well remarked in the
case last referred to, is upon the plaintiff to prove affirma.tively, by circumstances or otherwise, as he may be able, that
the defendant had no reasonable ground for commencing the
prosecution. Purcell v. McNamara, 9 East., 361; Willans v.
Taylor, 6"Bing., 184; Johustone v. Sutton, 1 Term, 544; Add.
on W. and R., 435; Turner v. Ambler, 10 Q. B., 257.
Applying these principles to the present case, -it necessarily
follows that o- much of the charge of the court as is now
under co.nsideration furnishes no just ground of complaint on
the part of the plaintiff. . On the contrary, it is quite obvious
that unless it was accompanied by prior xllanations,' not
stated in the bill- of 6xceptions, it was even more favorable to "
the plaintiff than he had a right to expect. He was bound to
make out his case; and if it did not appear that the prosicu"tion had been commenced with malicious motives, and without reasonable'and probable cause, then the plaintiff wa$ not
" entitled to a verdict. Mitchel v. Jenkins, 5 Barn. and Adol.,
594.
.2. With these remarks as to the first ground of complaint,
we will .proceed to the examination of the second, 'which is
also based upon a detached portion of the charge of the court.
Aftet stating the alternative proposition already.recited, the
presiding justice proceeded to define the term, probable cause.
He'substanitially .told the jury that probable. cause-was the

SUPREME COURT.
Wheeler v. Nesbitt et al.

existence of such facts and circumstances as would excite the
belief, in a reasonable mind, acting on the flicts within the
knowledge of the prosecutor, that the person charged was
guilty of the crime for which he was prosecuted.
Having thus defined the meaning of the term probable
cause, he then proceeded to say that the want of probable
cause afforded a presumption of malice, but that such presumption might be rebutted by other evidence, showing that
the party acted bona fide, and in the honest discharge of what
he believed to be his duty; and then gave the instruction
to which the second objection applies. It is qs follows: "If,
however, the jury find that the Arrest was Wanton and reckless, and that no circumstances existed to induce A reasonable,
dispassionate man to believe that the defendant was guilty of
having stolen the horses he had in his possession, then the
jury ought tknfer malice."' Clearly, this'part of the charge
must be taken in connection with what preceded it, and when
so read and understood, it is impossible to hold that it is incorrect, except, .perhaps, the closing paragraph is put rather
strongly in favor of the plaintiff. 'Whether the prosecution
was or was not commenced from malicious motives, was a
question of fact, and it was for the jury to deterinine'whether
the inference of malice was a reasonable one from the facts
assumed in the instruction. Be that as it may, it is quite certain that it furnishes no ground of exception to the plaintiff,
and in all other respects we hold the instruction to be correct.
3. One other objection only remains to be considered. After stating the fact that the magistrate who issued the warrant
was sued as a joint defendant, the presiding justice told the
jury that the warrant, as given in evidence, was in due form,
and that the presumption was, from the statements found
therein, that there was sufficient evidence before the magistrate to authorize him to issue it; and then follows that portion of the instructions to which the third objection applies.
He then told the jury that if there was probable cause for the
arrest of the defendant, he could be lawfully detained a reasonable time till the warrant was issued and executed. It is insisted by the plaintiff that this instruction was both abstract

'

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Gaines v. Hennen.

and misleading. But that theory is wholly without support
from anything that appears in thd record, and, in point of fact,
is directly contradicted by what does appear. To sustain that
remark it is only necessary to refer to the declaration, where.
it is alleged that tife plaintiff was detained in prison for the
space of seven days, and the minutes of the proceedings before
the magistrate show that he was so detained as the necessary
consequence of his own request for delay, and the neglect on
his part to offer any satisfactory security for his aptearance at.
the time appointed for the examination, Those minutes were
introduced by the plaintiff; and in the absence of any proof to
the contrary, it must be assumed that they speak the truth.
In view of the whole case, we think the charge of the court to.
the jury was correct, and that there was no error in the record.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore ,ffirmed, with
costs.

MYRA CLARK GAINES, APPELLANT, V. DuNcAN

N. HENNEN.

Since the case of Mrs. Gaines was before this .cofirt, as reported in 12 Howard, 537, the olographic will made by Daniel Clark, in .1813, was ordered by
the Supreme Court of Louisiana to be admitted to probate, notwithstanding
its loss.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of that State is coincident with the con
clusions of this court upon the testimony which related to the execution by
Mr. Clark of his olographic will of 1813, and of the concealment or destruction of it after his death.
This will declared Mrs. Gaines to be his legitimate and only daughter, and
universal legatee.
In the bill filed by Ms. Gaines to iecover the property sold by the executors
appointed by a former will of 1811, it was not necessary to make these executors parties. The reasons stated.
It was not necessary formally to set aside the will of 1811 before proceeding under that of 1813. Any one who desired to contest this latter will in a
direct action was not concluded from doing so.
I'he title of Mrs. Gaines is not barred by prescription, as defined by the law
bf Louisiana. The reasons explained." .
•he decision of this court in 12 Howard, 473, did not overrule the decision iii
6 Howard, 550. The two cases explained. - .
The case in 12 Howard cannot be set up as a defence in the present case as.

