SUPREME COURT.
Day et al. v. Was1hburn el al.

The authenticity-of the grant must first be ekablished before any question can arise upon the conditions annexed by
law to such grants, or co-cerning the certainty or uncertainty
of the boundaries specified in it. And in the case before us,
the grant itself not being maintained by competent testimony,
we need not inquire whether the conditions were complied
with, or the description of place and boundaries sufficiently
certain.
And for-the reasons above stated the judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the case remanded to the
District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition.

GEORGE W.

DAY, BOWEN MATLOCK, ISAAC

AND GEORGE W.

H.

FROTHINGIAM,

WARNER, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM

A. WASHBURN AND JOHN A. KEITH.
Where creditors, who were so upon simple contract debts, filed a bill in chancery
t-) set aside a deed made by the debtor as being fraudulent against creditors,
and other creditors came in as parties complainants, the court below was right
in ordering a pro rata distribution amongst all the creditors, none of them
having a judgment or other lien at law.
The complain'ants who. first filed the bill have no preference thereby over the
other creditors.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Indiana, sitting in equity.
*Washburn made an assignment of his property to Keith, for
the benefit of his cred]-tors.
Day and Matlock, and Frothinghani and Warner, citizens
of Ohio and New York, filed a bill in the Circuit Qourt of the
United States to set ' aside this deed as fraudulent. They alleged, as a reason for not sueing him at law, that he had no
property upon which a judgment would he a lien, nor any that
an execution would reach.
Other creditors of. Was-hburn, upon simple contract debts,
camie in by a supplemental bill, and applied to be admitted to
a distributive share of the assets.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Day et al. v. Washmurm et al.

The court ordered them to be distributed equally amongst
the parties to the record, from which decree Day, &c., appealed
to this court.
The case -was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Henderson for the appellants, and by Mr. Macdonald and Mr. Porter
for the appellees. Mr. Henderson contended for a preference
in favor of Day, &c., which the counsel for the appellees opposed.
Mr. Henderson's point upon this branch of the case was as
follows:
3. Th' complainants contend that by filing their bill to
avoid the assignment, they thereby obtained a specific lien on,
the assets in the hands of the assignee, and were, under the
law of the case, entitled to be fully paid to the exclusion of
the other creditors, whose equity is not superior ,to complainants. It is a well-established rule in equity "that when' the
equities are equal, that title which is prior in time shill prevail."
1 Story's Equity Jurisprudence, 400.
This rule applies as well to a case like the one before the
court as to equities growing out of conveyances. With regard
to cases like this, the general rule is laid down by numerous
adjudications that a creditor may file a bill in his own name
and behalf, and" for his sole benefit, or he may file in behalf
of himself and all others who may be entitled and may choose
to come in. If he proceeds on his own account alone, and no
lien has been gained or can be acquired at law, he acquires a
specific lien by filing the bill, and is entitled to priority over
other creditors.
1 American Leading Cases, 85.
Edmondson v. Lyde, (before referred to,) 1 Page IL, 637.
Corning v. White, 2 Page R., 567.
Butler etal. V. Jaffray et al., 12 Ind. R., (6w in press.)
Farnham v. Campbell, 10 Page R., 598-601.
Weed v. Pierce, 9 Cowen, 722-728.
U. S. Bank v. Burk, 4 Blackf., 141.
vo . xxiv.

28

SUPREME COURT.
Day et "aLv. Washburn et al.

Miers and another v. the Maysville Turnpike Co., 13 OhiR., 197.
Douglass v. Hamilton, 6 Ohio R., 156.
Wakeman v. Grover, 4 Page R., 23.
Russel v. Lasher, 4 Barbour S. C. R., 232.
Burrell oh Assignment, 600, 601.
Hobbs v. Bancraft et al., 4 Ind. iR., 388.
1 Kent, note to 263--4.
Messrs. Macdonald and Porter opposed this view of the case,
alld added:
Whether the decree, so far as it directs a ratable distribution
of the assets, was right or not, is not now before the court.
The appellees do not and did not object to such ratable distribution. The question, so far as relates to that, is a question
between the appellants and their co-complainants, and the
latter are not made parties to the appeal. Of course, therefore, nothing affecting their interest will be adjudicated by this
court.
7 Pet., 399; 16 Id., 521; 14 Curtis, 406.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of Indiana.
The bill was filed in the court below by two mercantile
firms, creditors of Washburn, against him and the assignee of
his property, for the purpose of setting aside the assignment
as fraudulent against creditors, and that the property might
ne applied in satisfaction of the complainants' demands.
These demands were simple contract debts, not reduced to
judgment.
The defendants demurred to the bill, ahd assigned, as the
ground of the demurrer, the want of equity.
The court overruled the demurrer, and the defendants answered separately, among other things denying all fraud in
the assignment. Replications were filed to the answers.
In this stage of the case, the other creditors of Washburn
applied by petition to the court to be made parties to the bill,

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

355;

Day et aL v. Mashburn et aL

charging fraud in the assignment, and praying that it might
be set aside, and the property and effects of the. debtor be subjected to the payment of.all his debts, and be divided equally '
among all the creditors.
The court ordered that these petitioning creditors become
co-com, plainants, and referred the case to a master to take an
account of what was due to each of the complainants, which
account was duly taken, and a report made to the court; and
afterwards the defendant, -Keith, was ordered to bring into
cotirt -the amount of moneys admitted by him to be in 1l1h
hands, made out of the assigned property, amounting to the
sum of $2,437; and then, at a subsequent day in the term,
the court'overruled a motion made, on behalf of the two firms
who filed the bill; to have the moneys in 'court applied to the
payment of their debts in preference to the other creditors;
and*adjudged the assignment fraudulent as to creditors,*and
directed that the whole fund be distributed ratably among all of
them, according to their. respective demands, and xeferred the
case to a master to make the distribution; and, on his report,
confirmed the same.
The case is before us on appeal by the two firms who filed
the bill, alleging for error the refusal of the court to give them
preference in the distribution of the assets.
The proceedings in the, case have not. been conducted with
much regularity, .but the principles of.equity governing the.
rights of the parties concerned are very well settled, and the
application of them to the facts as presented will satisfactorily
dispose of it.
The court of chancery dbes not give any specific lien to a
creditor at large, .against his debtor, further than he has acquired at law;' for, as he did not trust the debtor on the faith
of. such lien, it would be unjust to give him a preference over
other creditors, aid thus defeat a pro rata distribution; which
"equityfavors,unless prevented by the rules of law. It is only
.when he has obtained a judgment and execution in seeking to
subject the property of his debtor in the hands of third persons,' or to reach property not accessible to an execution, that*
'

-

SUPREME COURT.
Day el al. v. Washburn et aL

a legal preference is acquired, which a court of chancery will
enforce. (2 John., cb. 283; 4 Ib., 691.)
The two firms, therefore, who filed the bill, the appellanta
here not having reduced their demands to judgment and execution before seeking relief against the fraudulent assignment
of the debtor, are not in a situation to set up any claim to a
preference over the other co-cpmplainants, 6r to object to an
equitable distribution of the assets among all the creditors.
Indeed, the principle upon which the bill seems to have been
drawn, and is now sought to be sustained, would preclude any
preference in favor of the appellants-which is, that the debtor's property, in the hands of the assignee, constituted a fund
for the benefit of creditors, which a court of equity only could
reach, and hence that the creditor had a right to the interposition of the court, without first obtaining a judgment and execution. It is true, where a specific.fund has been assigned or
pledged for the benefit of creditors, and it is necessary to go
into a court of chancery to make a distribution among them,
the equitable lien of each ceditor upon the fund lays a sufficient foundation for the interposition of the court., It will enforce this equitable lien thus arising out of the assignment or
pledge for the benefit of the creditors, in the exercise of its
own appropriate jurisdiction. But-in all these cases, chancery,
upon its- own principles, distributes the fund pro rata among
all the creditors, unless preference is. given in the pledge or
assignment of the fund. In the present case, as the assignment was made to Keith, in trust for the benefit of creditors,
if the bill had been filed to enforce the trust, no judgment or
execution would have been necessary, as preliminary steps to
the interposition of the court; but in that case the appellants
would not have been entitled to a preference, as none was
given to them in the trust deed, but the cdntrary.
For this reason, doubtless, the bill was filed to set aside the
deed as fraudulent, with a view to defeat the preferences given
therein to other creditors: The objection that the demands of
the appellants had not been reduced to judgment and execution beforie filing the bill, would have been fatal to the relief
sought; if taken in time by the defendants. It was waived,

DECEMIBER TERM, 1860.

857

Tate et al. v. Cariey et al.

however; both as respected' the appellants and the other cocomplainants; and, as the court was left unembarrassed by
the objection, it was right in proceeding to dispose of the property and effects of the debtor, and to make the proper application of them; and,. as we have seen neither of the creditori
had acquired a preference at law, the application in chancery,
upon its own principles, was a ratable distribution among all
the creditors as decreed by the court below.
Decree affirmed.
CHARLES TATE AND OTHERS, PLAINTrFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN G.
CARNEY AND OTHERS.
Under several acts of Congress the register and receiver of the land office.were
authorized to grant a certificate to every person who should appear to be entitled to land in the section of country east of the Mississippi river and west
of the Perdido river.
Under these acts, Robert Yair received a certificate in 1824 for the land now in
controversy.
In 1848, the register and receiver decided that Nancy Tate han settled upon this
land at a very early day. They annulled the former certificate and granted
an order of survey, by means of which a patent was issued in 1853 to the representatives of Nancy Tate. The patent reserves the right of Robert Yair.
The decision of the register and receiver upon this question of title is not conclusive. They have power only to decide how the lands confirmed shall be
surveyed and located. They had n1o authority to overthrow the decision of
the register and receiver that had been made more than twenty years before,
which had been followed by possession, and as to which there had intervened
the claims of bonafide purchasers.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Louisiana holding sessions for the eastern district of
Louisiana, being issued under the twenty-fifth section of the
Judiciary act.
The head note has given an outline of the case so that the
reader can understand it; and the opinion of the court containR a full statement.
Tate was sued in the court below, and disclaimed title otherwise than as one of the heirs of Nancy Tate, whose other heirs
then intervened.

