SUPREME COURT.
Amey v. Mayor, Aldermen, and Citizens of Alegheny City.

States and the claimant. The Government had the power to
grant the land in fee, regardless of the opinion of the board.
Accordingly, in 1832, an act of Congress was passed organizing
another board to examine this description of Spanish claimb,
v hich had been rejected by the old board. The new-board,
in October, 1832, recommended the claim for confirmation
"to said James Mackay, or his legal representatives." James
Mackay had died, and his heirs presented the claim the second
time; and it is insisted that the confirmation to them by the
act of 1836 rejected the mortgage of Delassus, and that the
heirs took the unincumbered legal title discharged of the
mortgage.
An imperfect Spanish title, claimed by virtue of a concession, was, by the laws of Missouri, subject to sale and assignment, and of course subject to be mortgaged for a debt. The
heirs of Mackay took the lands by descent,. with the incumbrance attached, and held them in like manner that their
ancestor held. The grant of the lands to the heirs by the act
of 1836 carried the equities of the mortgagee with the legal
title, of which he took the benefit-a consequence.contemplated
by the mortgage itself; and if the assignment had been in its
form a legal conveyance of the lands, the grantee would have
taken a legal title. And to this effect are the cases of Bissel
v. Penrose, 8 How., and Landes v. Brant, 10 HOW.
It is ordered that the judgment be affirmed.

HENRY AmEY, PLAINTIFF, V. THE MAYOR, ALDERMEN, AND
ZENS OF ALLEGHENY CIM

OITI-

In 1848, the Legislature of Ohio incorporated certain of its citizens under the
name of the Ohio and Pennsylvania Railroad- Company; and in 1849, the
Legislature of Pennsylvania incorporated the same company by the same style,

and adopted the act of Ohio.
In 1849, the Legislature of Pennsylvania exempted from taxation, except for

State purposes, the certificates of loan theretofore issued or which might be
thereafter issued by the city of Allegheny (amongst others) in payment of a

subscription to the capital stock of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, oz
to the capital stock of the Ohio ad Pennsylvania Railroad Company.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Amey v. Mtayor, Aldermen, and Citizen3 of Allegheny City.
The charter of the last-named company had previously authorized the city corporation of the city of Allegheny to subscribe for an amount of the stock not
exceeding two hundred thousand dollars.
By virtue of two ordinances, and a supplement thereto, two hundred bonds of
one thousand dollars each, with coupons attached, were executed and delivered to the company. They bore date January 1, 1850.
On the 14th of April, 1852, another act was passed by the tegislature, providing "that the city of Allegheny is hereby authorized to increase its subscription to the capital stock of the Ohio and Pennsylvania Railroad Company to
an amount not exceeding the subscription heretofore made by said city, &c.;
provided no bonds for the payment of stock subscribed, as aforesaid, shall -be
issued of a less denomination than one hundred dollars."
On the 19th of gune, 1852, an ordinance'was passed authorizing the mayor to
subsdribe for four thousand shares, (equal to two hundred thousand dollars,)
&c., &c. This ordinance was never recoraed; but the stock was subscribed
for nd the bonds issued.
On the 8th of May, 1850, the Legislature had passed an act limiting the debt of the
city of Allegheny to $500,000, exclusive of the first subscription above mentioned. The debt of the'city had reached that limit prior to the second subscription.
These acts of the Legislature, mentioned in the first part of this note, conferred
authority on the corporation of the city of Allegheny to issue certificates of
loan, otherwise called bonds, with coupons,-as was done, to pay for its first
and second subscriptions to the capital stock of the Ohio and- Pennsylvania
Railroad Company.
The limitation in the-act of 8th of May, 1850, only meant that the city council,
.by its own authority, should not go into' debt to a greater amount than*
$500,000,. But this restriction was not binding on the Legislature.
The circumstance that the ordinance of 19th of June, 1852, was not recorded
or published, does not invalidate the bonds. The charter of'the city requires
that those ordinances only which were passed under the seventh section of.
the charter should be recorded and published. -The ordinance in question
did not belong to that class.
This court adopts the judgment of the courts of Pennsylvania, that the above acts
of the Legislature were not inconsistent with the Constitution of the State.

Tms case came up on a certificate of division in opinion
between the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the western distfict of Pennsylvania.
The nature of the case is explained in the head note of this
report, and fully set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Knox for
the plaintiff, and Mr. Looms for the defendant.

SUPREME COURT.
Amey v. Mayor, Aldermen, and Oitizens of Alleghny City.

Mr. Knox divided his argument into the following heads:
1. The words of the acts.
2. The purpose of the acts.
3. The interpretation put upon them by the Legislature.
Under the first head, he contended that the power to issue
bonds was included in the power to subscribe to the capital
stock; and referred to Commonwealth v. M. Williams, 1
Jones, 62.
Carr v. Le Feure, 3 Carey, 418.
McMasters v. Reed's Executors, 1 Grant's Cases, 36.
Commonwealth ex rel Hamilton v. Pittsburg, Pittsburg
Legal Journal, March.12, 1860, Iwo. 35, pp. 274-276.
The popular use of the word "subscribe" corresponds with
the grammatical and legal meaning, as stated in the above
cases. Allegheny city has placed this interpretation upon
them, and nQ different construction ought now to be admitted.
The words "certificates of loan" and "bonds" are considered identical by several acts of the Legislature, viz-: 21st of
April, 1851, 18th April, 18.53, May 8, 1854.
2. The purpose of the acts.
The purp6se was to enable the city of Allegheny to con-tribute by the use of its credit to the makiprg of this road, and
bonds, with coupons, were the only kind of securities that
would serve the purpose of the act.
2 Peters, 661; 3 Wheaton, 388.
8. The interpretation placed on the act by the Legislature.
The act of May 8, 1850, passed after the issue of the first
set of bonds, recognised them as a debt of the city.
The two -first points relate to the act of 1852, as well as to
the first act.
*.Mr.-Loomis confined his argument to the following propositions, viz:
1. Whether the several acts of Assembly mentioned in the
case stated conferred any authority on the corporation of the
city of Allegheny to give bonds, with coupons, as stated in
the cause.

DECEMBER -TERM, 1860.

. 367

Amey v.Mayor, Adermen, anca itizen= of Alegheny City.

2. Whether such bonds and coupons are null and void by
reason of such want of authority.
3. -Whether they are null and void for any other irregularity
connected with their issue.
Upon the first point, Mr. Loomis expatiated upon the unreasonableness and injustice of bilding the property of one
man by the will of another, which was not sanctioned by the
Constitution of Pennsylvania.
The only power given to the corporation was to subscribe,
which might, perhaps, have given the railroad company a
right of action. Under the city charter, no authority to issue
the bonds existed; by the delegation of the authority to subscribe, none was conferred. The plaintiffs took the title at
their peril. The public interest requires that corporate functionaries should be kept strictly within the pale of their authority and duty.
[Mr.Loonis then cited a number of authorities in-support
of these positions. His argument upon the other points must
be omitted for want of room. The above notice constitutes
but a faint outline of the arguments of both counsel.]
Mr. Justice WA=NE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has been sent to this court on a certificate of division of opinion between the judges of the Circuit Court for
the western district of Pennsylvania.
The plaintiff has sued the mayor and aldermen and citizens
of Allegheny city, in actions of debt, upon several coupons of
bonds which were issued.by that corporation, and made payable to the Ohio and Pennsylvania Railroad Company, in payment for two subscriptions, of two hundred thousand dollarseach, to the stock of the latter.
It was agreed by.the parties upon the trial of the cause to
submit it for the opinion of the court upon a statbment, in the
nature of a special verdict, and that verdicts upon the coupons
should be entered accordingly.
The judges, however, in their consideration of theeage, dif
fered in opinion on th6 following points: "'Whether the several acts of Assembly recited in the case stated conferred any

SUPREME COURT.
Amey v. Mayor, Aldern7,

and .Pitizens of Allegheny City.

authority on the corporation of the city of AllegTheny to issue
bonds with coupoqs, as had been done, or whether the same
are altogether null and .void, by reason of such want of authority, -or for, any other irregularity connected with their
issue."

It is admitted that the bonds were issued and delivered in
payment for subscriptions of stock to the Ohio and Pennsylvania Railroad Company; that they were made payable to
that company or its order; that the company had negotiated
them to raise funds to construct the road, and that the road
had been completed in conformity with the conditions of thn
subscriptions of the defendants.
The parties agree that the subscriptions had been made by .
the authority of acts of the Legislature of the State of Pennsylvania, in conformity with the charter of the railroad company, and were intended to be in pursuance of resolutions and
ordinances of the select and common councils of the city of
Allegheny.
The mayor was first instructed to subscribe for four thou
sand shares of the capital stock of the Ohio and Pennsylvania
Railroad Company, to be paid for in bonds, with coupons attached for interest, payable semi-annually, the bonds having
twenty-five years to run. The railroad agreed to pay the interest upon the bonds until the completion of the road, or so
much of it as may be adequate to pay the interest, and that
the proceeds of the bonds were to be applied to the constrution of the road from the city of Allegheny to the mouth of
the Big Beaver river, about twenty-five miles. And to secure
the city and the bondholders, it was stipulated, in addition to
the legal obligations incurred in making the subscription, that
the stock, with the interest, earnings, and dividends of the
road, should be pledged to pay the interest, and finally to redeem the bonds. Accordingly two hundred bonds of $1,000
were prepared, and were delivered to the railroad company,
on the 1st of January, 1850, and the city at the same time received a certificate of four thousand shares. The coupons
now sued upon were a part of those which were attached te
!hose bonds.

DECEMBER TERM, .1860.

369

Amey v. Hayor Alkermen, and Citizens of Allegeny Citf.

The second subscription was made in virtue of another act
of the Assembly of Pennsylvania, and in compliance with a
resolution of the city, dated June 19th, 1852. That act authorized the city to increase its subscription to the capital
stock of the railroad company, to any amount not exceeding
its first subscription, upon the laws and conditions which had been
prescribedfor the first; but it restrained the city from making
an issue of bonds of a less denomination than $100. The act
also exempts the stock from the payment of.any tax in consequence of the payment of any interest to stockholders, until
the net earnings of the company shall realize six per cent. per
annum on the capital stock. The city authorities passed an
ordinance for this additional subscription, but it was not published in compliance with the charter of the city, nor was it
recorded in the manner which it is said the charter requires
the city ordinances to be. 'For those neglects, it is said the
ordinance was null and void, and that the city had not the
power to make the second subscription under the act of the
Legislature. But the city bonds were issued, and the sub.scription was made. It is also objected that the ordinance
was endorsed upon the bonds, without any proviso'requiring
the railroad company to pay the interest upon them according
to its stipulation. But it is admitted that. the road wis built
first from the city to the Big Beaver river, and afterwards
completed to its termination on the western border of Ohio,
and thence to Chicago.
The city continues to hold its stock in the railroad company.
It has received five dividends from the- company-one of
$14,000, another of $16,000, another of $12,000-which were
retained by the company by the consent of the city, and had
been appropriated to the payment of the coupons for interest;
and that $4,000 of those dividends bad been paid in cash, and
others in stock. Prior to the city's second subsciiption, it appears that the debt of the city had become $500,000, the limit
prescribed by an act of the Legislature. That act is, "that it
should not be lawful for the councils of the city, either directly
or indirectly, by bonds or certificates of loan of indebtedness,
or by virtue of any contract, or by any means or device what
VOL. xxIv

24

SUPREME COURT.
Amey v. Mayor, Aldermen, and Citizens of Allegheny City.

soever, to increase its indebtedness to a sum which, added to
the existing debt, shall exceed $500,000, exclusive of the subscription of $200,000 to the Ohio and Pennsylvania Railroad
Company."
Itis admitted, also, that the stock of the city in the railroad
company had been voted at all elections of it by order of the
city, except in a single instance, when the city refused to vote.
The city was incorporated on the 11th April, 1840, with all the
powers and authorities then vested by law in the select and
commoncouncils of the city of Philadelphia.
We have given the agreed case of the parties in every particular in any way bearing. upon the points about which the
judges in the" court below were divided in opinion, and will
now consider them.
The subscriptions of the defendants were made under the
acts of the 5th April, 1849, and that of the 14th April, 1852.
The first permitted a subscription of $200,000, to be paid for
by "certificates of loan." The second permitted the increase
of it, to an amount not exceeding the first, without, however,
having altered the manner in which the corporate credit of the
city was to be used for the payment of the second subscription.
We infer from the words of the act, and do not see how it can
be otherwise, that it was to be paid for by the same certificates
of indebtedness which the Legislature had directed to be issued
and used for the payment of the first subscription. The act
is, "that the city of Allegheny is hereby authorized to increase
its subscription to the bapital stock of the said Ohio and Pennsylvania railroad Company to any amount not exceeding the
subscription heretofore made by the said city, upon the terms
and conditions prescribed/in regard to said previous subscription; provided no bond for the payment of the subscription
shall be issued of a less denomination than one hundred dollars." This proviso is merely an inhibition upon the city to
use for the payment of the subscription any certificate of indebtedness less than $100; and the words "no bond for the
payment of the subscription shall be issued," when considered
in connection with the act authorizing the second subscription,
that it should be made "upon the same terms and conditions

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Amey v. Mfajor, Aldermen, and Citizens of Allegheny City.

of the first," cannot be interpreted into a permission or direction of the Legislature, that the city might use in payment for
the stock any other legal or commercial instrument than "certificates of loan."
Such certificates are well and distinctly
known and recognised in the usages and business of lending
and borrowing money, in the transactions of commerce, also,
and for raising money upon the contract in them for industrial
enterprises and internal improvements. They were formerly
more generally known than otherwise as "certificates of loan,"
with certificates for interest attached, payable to the bearer at
particular times within the year, at some particular place, being a part of the contract, from which they must be cut off to
be presented for payment. But now, in their use, they are
called bonds, with coupons for interest- a coupon bond--coupon being the interest, payable separable from the certificate
of loan, for the purpose of receiving it. But neither the instrument nor coupon has any of the legal characteristics of a
bond, either with or without a penalty, though both are written acknowledgments for the payment of a debt.
Such certificates of loan have been resorted to for many
years in the United States to raise money for internal improvements. They were a! well known and used in Pennsylvania
as elsewhere, and were permitted to be issued in that State,
by just such enactments as those which authorized the city of
Allegheny to subscribe to the capital stock of the Ohio and
Pennsylvania Railroad Company. - Such an issue was applicable to the subject-matter of legislation. The city solicited
the State to be allowed to make. the subscriptions. It was the
policy of the State to grant the application. The subscriptions
were made under the act of the 5th April, 1849, and that of
the 14th April, 1852. The *first permits a subscription of
$200,000, which was to be paid for by certificates of loan.
The act of the 14th April, 1852, allowed the inrease of the
subscription to an amount not exceeding the first,. upon the
same terms and conditions. It was the understanding of the
Legislature, of the city, and of the railroad company, -thatthe
subscriptions were to be paid for by the corporate *credit of
the city by the'issue of "1certificates of loan." That appears

SUPREME COURT.
Amey v. Mayor, Aldermen, and Citizens of Allegheny City.

from the act of 1849, authorizing it, before the subscription
was in fact made. That act provides, in anticipation of
its being done, that the certificates of loan which shall hereafter be issued by the city of Allegheny in payment of any
subscription to the Ohio and Pennsylvania Railroad Company,
were to be exempt from all taxation, except for State purposes.
The railroad company took from the -city certificates of loan
in payment of the subscriptions, sold them as such, and with
the money built the road. Such a concurrence of contemporaneous action by all the parties interested in the subject-matter of legislation, proves that it was the intention of the Legislature that the authority given to the city to make the subscriptions to the railroad company, had been carried out just
as it was meant to have been.
We answer, therefore, that the several acts of Assembly
stated in the agreed case did confer authority on the corporation of the city of Allegheny to issue certificates of loan, other.
wise bonds with coupons, as was dne, to pay for its first and
second subscriptions to the capital stock of the Ohio and Penn.
sylvania Railroad Company.
We will now inquire whether the bonds or certificates of
loan which were issued are null and void "for any irregularity
connected with their issue.".
It is said there were two irregularities which made them so.
The first is, that the debt of the city had reached its limit of
$500,000 prior to the second subscription. The second is,
that the city ordinance authorizing the issue for the payment
of the subscriptions was null and void, from not having been
published in conformity with the charter of the city.
The first objection depends upon the proper construction
of the act of 8th May, 1850, section 4, in connexion with the
act of the 14th April, 1852, which authorized the second subscription. The first declares thatthe indebtedness of the city
should not be made to exceed five hundred thousand dollars,
exclusive of the subscription of two hundred thousand dollars
to the railroad company; and it is urged, that the act of 14th
April, 1852, though it authorizes the city to make a second
subscription of two hundred thousand dollars, does not permil

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Amey v.

373

ayor, Aldermn,-and Citizens of Allegheny City.

the city to increase its debt to a larger sum than seven hundred thousand dollars, to which it was limited by the first act
of 1850: The objection has arisen from a misconception of
tle 4th section of the act of 1850. It provides that it shall
not be lawful for the councils of the city of Alleghen., either directly or indirectly, or by bonds, certificates, or loans, or of
indebtedness, or .by virtue of any contract, or by any other
means or device whatsoever, to increase the indebtedness of
the said city, in a sum which, added to the existing debt, shall,
taken together, exceed five hundred thousand dollars, exclu-.
sive of the subscription of two hundred thousand dollars to the
Pennsylvania .Railroad Company; meaning, obviously, that
no increase of debt should be made by the councils beyond
the sum of $500,000, but -not intending that the Legislature
might not authorize an increase of -it beyond that amount, as
it had previously done by authorizing'the first subscription to
the railroad company. The same political power which allowed the first subscription could, at a succeeding session of
the Legislature, give authority to the city to make a second.
Such authority was given by the act of the 14th April, 1852.
The 6ity councils could not under its charter have made either
the first or second subscription'without authorify from theLegiglature, but by its charter it could contract debts for the purposes 6f its incor-porationto a largeramount than-$500,000. When,
then, the Legislature was called upon to authorize the city to
make the first subscription, increasing its indebtedness two
hundred thousand dollars, beyond what the city might have
owed then for other purposes, it was thought prudent, as well
for the protection of the citizens of Allegheny as for those
who miglt, purchase these certificates of stock with coupons,
to declare that the councils of the city should not thereafter,
by virtue of their charter authority to contract debts, by any device
whatever, increase its amount to more than five hundred
thousand dollars. And as it has turned out, judging from the
attitude of the mayor, aldermen, and citizens of Allegheny in
this suit, it must be admitted to have been upon the.part of
the Legislature of Penhsylvania a very commendable precau.
tionary act of legislation.

SUPREME cDURT.
Amey v. Mayor, Aldermen, and Citizen of Alleghenj

iy.

Having thus disposed of the first irregularity imputed to the
councils of Allegheny, in making their issue for the payment
of the second- subscription, we proceed to the second.
It is, that the ordinance of the eity directing the issue for
the payment of the second subscription bad not been recorded
within thirty days. It is admitted in the stated case that it
had not been.
By the 8th section of the charter of the city of Allegheny,
it is provided, that -in order that a knowledge of the laws,
ordinances, regulations, and constitutions of the city, authorized by the seventh section of the charter, may at all times be
had and obtained, and the publications thereof at all times be
known and ascertained, such and so many of them as shall
not be published in one or more of the public newspapers
published in the city, or in such other way as the select and
common councils may direct, within fifteen days after these
laws severally passed, &c., &c., and also recorded in the office
for the recording of deeds, &c., &c., &c., within thirty days
after these laws passed, &c., &c., shall be null and void.
Now, it does not require a very careful examination of the
section to determine that it can have no bearing upon the
ordinance directing the issue for the payment of the second
subscription of the city to the Ohio anld Pennsylvania Railroad Company, for in terms it is only applicable to ordinances,
&c., authorized by the 7th section of the charer, and that did not
permit such a subscription to be made, and paid for by the
-city stock, as the ordinance for that purpose was intenaled. It
could only be made by the authoritr of the Legislature. In
lbther words, the Legislature enlarged the powers of the councils of Allegheny, to do what it could not do by charter. Besides, if the section was not limited to such ordinances, &c.,
&e., as are authorized by the 7th section of the charter, and those
words were not in it, it could have no application to ani ordinance of the city passed for a special purpose to carry out an
act of the Legislature, outside of the charter, as was the case
here. W., have determined that the acts of the Legislature
hav6 been carried out by the city in the way they should have
been done Neither the ordinahce, hor the stock issued by

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

375

Army v. Atayor,.Aldermnm, and Citzew of Alegheny City.

the city, are deficient in any substantial particular. The latter has every formality of the corporation to give them currency. They were -circulated for ten years, and were constantly acknowledged by the city, as its bonds, for the purposes for which they were issued. They are now in the hands
of bona fide transferees, to .whom they must be paid according
to their terms. It would be inequitable, if the city could
repudiate them at all, and more especially, if that were allowed to be done upon the ground of any fault in the corporation
in their issue. But we will not .enlarge further upon the case.
The points of objection of which we have treated have already
been before this court in several cases, and they are worthy
of perusal. See the cases of the Commissioners of Knox
-County, Indiana, v. Wallace, 21 Howard, 239; 8 Zabriskie v.
Cleveland,; Columbus, and-.Cincinnati Railroad Compaiiy, 23
-Howard, 381.
We have not, in our treatment of this certified division of
opinion, discussed that position of the learned counsel who
argued it for the defendant, that the acts of the Legislature of
Pennsylvania, authorizing the issue of the certificates of loan,
were unconstitutional.
Agreeing with him in the main, as to the foundations upon
which the correctness of legislation should be tested, and the
objects for which it ought to be approved, we cannot, with
the respect which we have for the judiciary of his State, discuss the imputed unconstitutionality of the acts upon which
the subscriptions were made to the Ohio and Pennsylvania
Railroad :Company; it having been repeatedly decided by the
judges of the courts of Pennsylvania, including its Supreme
Court, that acts for the same purposes as those are, which we
have been considering, were constitutional.
We shall order it to be certified, that the issue of bonds
with coupons, in the case stated, are not null and void, but
that it was done under the authority of constitutional acts of
the State of Pennsylvania, in the case stated; and further,
that they are'not null and void for any irregfilarity connected
with that issue by the city of Allegheny.

SUPREME COURT.
The Board of Commusoiwnrs of Knox County v. Aspmwall et al.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
western district of Pennsylvania, and on the point or question
upon which thejudges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in
opinion, and which was certified to this court for its opinion,
agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is the opinion of this court that the issue of bonds with coupons, in the case stated, are not null and void, but that it was
done under the authority of constitutibnal acts of the State of
Pennsylvania, in the case stated, and further, that they are
not null and void for any irregularity connected with that
issue by the city of Allegheny Whereupon it is now here
ordered and adjudged that it be so certified to the said Circuit
Court.
THE BOARD oF COMMISSIONERS OF KNOX COUNTY, PLAINTIFFS
ALSOP,
IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM H. ASPINWALL, JOSEPH W
HENRY CHANCEY, CHARLES GOULD, AND SAMUEL L. M. BARLOW
Where the commissioners of a county have authority by statute to issue
bonds, and are required to levy a tax to pay the interest coupons as they
become due, and, having issued such bonds, they neglect or refuse to assess
the tax or pay the interest, a writ of mandamus is the proper legal remedy.
The Circuit Courts of the United States have authority to issue such writ of
mandamus against the commissioners, where it is necessary, as a remedy for
suitors ii such court.
It is not a sufficient reason for setting aside a peremptory mandamus, that a
previous alternative writ had not issued.

THIs case was brought up by writ of' error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr Porter for the plaintiffi in error, and
Mr Vinton upon a brief filed by himself, and also one by .Ar
JTudah, for the defendants.

