SUPRKME COURT.
Kelogg et al. v. Forsyth.

HENRY M. KELLOGG AND OTHERS V. ROBERT FORSYTH.
The statutes of fllinois require that a declaration in ejectment shall be served
upon the actual occupant, and the practice of that State authorizes the appearance of the landlord and his defence of the suit, either in his own name
or that.of the tenant with his condent.
And when a landlord has undertaken the defence of a suit in the name of the
tenant with his consent, the tenant cannot interfere with the cause to his prejudibe.
Therefbre, when the defendant in ejectment in the court below died after judgment, and his attorney and landlord, who had conducted the suit in the
name and with the consent of the deceased, sued out a writ of error in the
name of the heirs, gave bond for the prosecution of the writ and for costs, a
motion to dismiss the writ will not be entertained, although the heirs of the
deceased authorize the motion to dismiss.
It appears to the court that the attorney of the-deceased defendant is a bonajide
claimant of the land, and prosecuting the writ of error in good faith.
The motion to dismiss the writ of error is therefore overruled.

Tuis was a branch of the three preceding cases, coming up
from the same court.
-Mr Williams, counsel for the defendant in error, moved to
disnnss the writ for the follwing reasons, viz:

That it is miamfest by the record filed in this court in the
said cause that the said writ of error was issued on the 15th
day of July, 1859.
That the clerk's return thereto was filed with the clerk of
this court on the 3d day of October, 1859.
That said-return contains nothing but affidavits of the death,
&c., of the original defendant, the writ of error, a bond to
prosecute the same, a citation and acknowledgment of the
service thereof.
That the detached record filed by tthe plaintiff, with the said
return, was certified by the clerk of the Circuit Court on the
25th day of October, 1856, and is not attached to said return,
or in any way referred to therein.
And therefore, he says, for said irregularities in the said
proceedings patent on the face of the record of said cause, the
said writ of error ought to be dismissed.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

187

Kellogg et al. v. orsyth.

See Rules, Nos. 8 and 9.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error recovered a judgment in ejectment
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the northern district.of Illinois against William Kellogg, deceased, as tenant
in possession df a parcel of land in that district. After the
judgment, the defendant died. The attorney of the decedent, who was also his landlord, and who had conducted the
suit on behalf and in the name of the tenant, with his consent,
sued out a writ of error to this court in the name of the heirs
of said Kellogg. .The bond. for the prosecution of'tbe writ,
and the stipulation for costs in this court, have been supplied
by the said attorney One of the heirs of Kellogg objects to
the prosecution of the writ of error, and alleges, on behalf of
himself and his coheirs, that it is prosecuted without authority,
and that they have no desire that it should be maintained, and
authorize the attorney of the defendant in error to move for
its dismissal. It appears to the court that the attorney of the
deceased defendant is a bona fide claimant of the land, and
that lie is prosecuting the writof error in good faith. That
he is responsible for the costs and damages that may arise
from the use of the names of the plaintiffs in error. The statutes of Illinois require that the declaration in ejectment shall
be served upon the actual occupant, and the practice of ,the
courts of that State authorizes the appearance of the landlord,
and his defence of the suit, either in his own name or that of
the tenant, with his consent. Williams v. Brunton, 8 Gilman R., 600.
And when a landlord has undertaken the defence of a suit
in the name of the tenant, with his consent, the tenant cannot
interfere with the cause to his prejudice. Doe v. Franklin, 7
Taun., 9. We think it was competent to the landlord to use
the names of the plaintiffs to prosecute his writ of error upor
his engagement tobear all the costs and expenses of the suit.
Should the judgment be reversed, and the cause remanded to,
the Circuit Court for further proceedings, le may apply in thai

SUPREME COURT.
Richardson v. City of Boston.

court for leave to become defendant, instead of the heirs of
the tenant.
Motion to dismiss overruled.
r

THoMAs RICHARDSON, PLAINTrrF

IN ERROR, V. THE CITY OF

BOSTON.
The decisions of this court in the cases of the City of Boston v. Lecraw, 17
How., 426, and Richardson v. City of Boston, 19 How., 263, referred to ana
explined.
Indictments against the city of Boston, in 1848, for permitting unhealthy vapors
and exhalations to arise in that part of the city which the sewer in question
was erected to remedy, were admissible in evidence, on the part of the city,
to show that the conduct of the city did not tend to oppression, and as part
of the history of the case. An instruction of the court below was correct, viz:
that a former verdict and judgment, though admitted in evidence, should
have little or no weight on the decision of the case, because it was founded
on erroneous instructions on the law.
So, also, an instruction was correct which told the jury that there was no evidence in the case which would authorize them to find that the city of Boston
had ever dedicated to the public use a public highway, town way, dock, or
public way, between the wharves in question, for the access of boats and vessels between said wharves to high-water mark or the egress therefrom to the
sea.
These instructions were in conformity with the previous decisions of this court.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Rhode Islaild.
It was an action for the continuance of an alleged nuisance
from 13th September, 185U, to 15th April, 1852. It will hereafter appear why the first of these dates was named.
The nuisance charged is described i two preceding cases,
viz City of Boston v. Lecraw, 17 How., 426, and Richardson v. City of Boston, 19 How., 263. Without noticing at
present the first-named case, it may be proper to give the
history of the present one
The action was brought by'Richardson in the Circuit Court
of Massachusetts to October term, 1850.

