264

SUPREME COURT.
League v. Egery et al.

In this view of the subject, the courtdo not deem it proper
to express any opinion as to the right of this creditor, in some
other form of judicial proceeding, to compel the sale of the
whole property of the corporation, including the franchise, for
the payment of his debt. Nor do we mean to express any
opinion as to the validity or operation of the deeds of trust
and acts of Assembly of the State of Maryland, referred to in
the proceedings. If the appellant has a right to enforce the
sale of the whole property, including the franchise, his remedy
is in a court of chancery, where the rights and priorities of
all the creditors may be considered and protected, and the
property of the corpoiation disposed of to the best advantage,
for the benefit of all concerned. A court of common law, from
the nature of its jurisdiction and modes of proceeding, is incapable of accomplishing this object; and the Circuit Court
was right in granting the injunction, and its decree is therefore
affirmed.

THOMAS M. LEAGUE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CYRUS W.
EGERY, JOSEPH . 'SmITH, AND SAuAH A. SIaTH, ADMINisTRATRIX.
By the colonization laws of Mexico passed in 1824 and 1828, the consent of the

federal Executive of Mexico was essential to the validity of a grant of lands
within ten leagues of the coast.
The Supreme Court of Texas has repeatedly so decided, and"this court adopts
their decision.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Texas.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr.. Hughes for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Phillips for the defendants.
Mr. Hughes tried to avoid the effect of the case of Smith v.
Power, 14 Texas, 147, which decided.that the grant was within

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

265

League v. Egery et al.

the littoral leagues, and therefore void, by referring to a statute of Texas, (Hartley's Digest, article 3, p. 221,) by virtue of
which the record of-that case could not have been maintained
if it had been pleaded in bar in the present case.
The arguments upon the merits of the case are omitted.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff sued in the District Court for a parcel of land
containing two and one-half leagues in the county of Refuio,
inthe State of Texas. The answer and amended answer of
the defendants contain some twenty pleas, and a number of
questions are presented .by the record; but as the decision of
the cause will be com-plete bythe opinion the court have formed
of the original grant from the State of Coahuila and Texas,
from which the claim of the plaintiff is derived, and on which
it depends, a statement of thba grant will be sufficient. In the
year 1826, Power and Eiewetsolproposed to the Government
of Mexico to estabilish a colony on the seacoast of Texas, within
what is ternred in their law of colonization the littoral leagues.
This proposal was accepted, and the partners entered upon the
fulfillment of that enterprise. In December, 1829, they respectively applied to the Governor of the State of Coahuila
and Texas for the purchase of eleven leagues- of land each,
within the limits of the colony. This offer was accepted; the
,petitioners were authorized to locate their grant upon any
lands in the colony that were vacant, or elsewhere, if there
was not a sufficiency of vacant land for that purpose; and the
general 'commissioner of the colohy was directed to deliver
possession of the land sel-ected, and to perfect the corresponding titles. In November, 1834, Power represented to this
general commissioner that the partners had selected only seventeen and one-quarter leagues, and requested-him to issue
grants for two tracts, one containing two and a half leagues,
and the other, two and one-quarter leagues, to c6mplete this
contract, at a place designated. This-request of the petitioner
was complied with, and 6ne of these grants is that which was
introduced to support the plaintiff's title, and with which he
connected himself by mesne conveyances.

SUPREME COORT.
League v. Egery et at.

The location is within the littoral ol coast leagues described
in the fourth sections of the colonization laws of Mexico, of
1824 and 1828.
The litigation between the grantees' and their assigns and
the defendants for -this land has been protracted in the courts
of Texas, and the opinion of the Supreme Court of that State
has been very definitely expressed upon the validity of their
titles on two several occasions.
Smith v. Power, 14 Tex. R., 146.
Smith v. Power, 23 Tex. R., 29.
In the latter case the Supreme Court said: "No question is
more authoritatively settled by the repeated decisions of this
court, than that the consent of the federal Executive of Mexico was essential to the validity of a grant of lands of the character of the present within the border and coast leagues. Edwards v. Davis, 3 Tex. R., 321; 10 Id., 316; Republic v. Thorn,
3 Id., 499; 5 Id., 410; 9 Id., 4I10, 556. In the case of Smith
v. Power, (14 Texas R.,) the parties to this appeal, it was held,
that the grant here in .question, under which the defendant
claims, could not be distinguished from those which had been
passed upon in former cases; and upon the auth6rity of those
cases, it was decided, that the grant wanting such consent was
void. That question, therefore, cannot be considered as now
an open one. A series of decisions continued almost from the
organization of this court down to the present time, thus settling the construction of the old local law, upon which the
titles to real property in the oldest and most densely peopled
portions of the State so largely depend, must be.regarded as
emphatically the law of the State." In accordance with wellestablished principles in this court; we accept this uniform and
stable body of judicial decision from the court of last resort of
the State in which the property is situated, and in which the
transactions that form the subject of this litigation took place,
as conclusive testimony of the rule of action prescribed by the
authorities of the State, as applicable -to their interpretation
and adjustment. We do not inqui-e whether a more suitable
rule might not have been adopted, !iur whether the arguments
which led to -its adoption were forcible or just. We i ceive

DECEM3BER TERM, 1860.

267

Foote -v. Egery et al.

the decisions having the character that are mentionel -in the
extract we have made from the opinion of the Supreme Court
of Texas as having a binding force -almost equivalent to positive law. Such being our conclusion in respect to this grant,
we must sanction the'judgment of the District Court that denies to it validity.
Judgment affirmed.

HENRY S. FOOTE, PLAINT IFF IN ERROR, V. CYRUS W. EGERY
AND JOSEPH F. SMITH.
The decision in the preceding case of League v. Egery and others concludes
this also.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Texas.
It was similar to the preceding case with respect to the
principal question involved, and was argued by the same
counsel.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff, claimed in the District Court two leagues and
ole-half of land in the county of Refugio, in the State of Texas,
which were in the possession of the defendants. The defendant answered the claim by asserting title under grants from
the State of Texas, and by the operation of the statutes of limitation.
The plaintiff Xnintained his claim by producing a grant to
James Power and James Hewetson, issued under the authority
of the State of Coahuila and Texas, in the year 1834, upon a
contract of sale of a certain'quantity of'lands in the colony of,
Power and Hewetson, situate within the littoral or coast
leagues. In deriving his title under these grantees, the plaintiff produced a deed, or an agreement for a conveyance, from

Hewetson to Power and Walker; this paper was rejected as
testimony by the court. ' Walker, this vendee, died in 1836.

