DECEMBER TERM, 18601

317

Mayer, Trustee, v. Wite, An.

the condition of this obligation is such, that if the said defendants in said suit shall deliver to the marshal said property, if
suw delivery be adjudged, and shall pay to him such sum as
may for any cause be recovered against the defendants, then
thifi obligation to be void.
The bond upon which judgment was recovered was void, as
against the defendants, because, after the same was executed
by them as sureties, Remington, their principal, without their
'knowledge or consent, and with the consent of the marshal,
erased his name from the bond.
In Miller v. Stuart, 9 Wheat., 702, Mr. Justice Story said,
nothing can be clearer, both upon principle and authority
thai the doctrine that the liability of a surety is not to be ex
tended, by implication, beyond tlbe terms of his contract. To
the extent, and in the manner, and under the circumstances,
pointed out in the obligation, he is bound, and no further. It
is not sufficient that he may sustain no injury by a"change in
the contract, or that it may be for his benefit. He has a right
to stand upon the very terms of his contract; and if he does
not assent to any variation of it, and an alteration of it is
made, it is fatal.
Hunt's Adm. v. Adams, 6 Mass., 521.
2. After the execution of the bond by the defendants, to be
delivered to the marshal, it was refused and disagreed to by
him, and it thereby became void. Any subsequent alteration
would&require a new deed or positive assent to the same, to
make it valid against the defendants.
Sheppard's.Touchstone, 70, 394.
The judgment is reversed.

CHARLES F. MAYER, SURVIVING PERMANENT TRUSTEE OF JOHN
GOODING, APPELLANT, V. WILLI,.M PINKNEY WHITE, AD.aIINISTRATOR DE BONIS NON OF JOHN GOODING AND ROBERT

M.

GIBBES AND CHARLES OLIVER, SURVIVING EXECUTORS OF ROBERT OLIVER, DECEASED.
Another branch of the cases arising under the Msexican Company of Balthmore,
formed in 1816.

SUPREME COURT.
.ffayer, 2

stee, v. Wkite, -Adm.

This court decided, in 17th Howard, 274, that thc interest in one of these share
did not pass to a trustee in insblvency in 1819, the contract with Mina having.
been declared by the Court of Appeals of Maryland to be ntterlynulland void,
- so that no interest could pass to th&trustee of-- asolvent.
But in 1824, Mexico assumed the debt as one oi national obligation, and the
TTnited States made it the subject of negotiation until it was finally paid.
A second .insolvency having taken place in 1829, there-ras a right of property
in the insolvent which was capable of passing to his trustee.
The claim of the latter is therefore-.better than that of the administrator of the
insolvent.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland.
It was a branch of the cases relating to the shares of the
Mexican Company of Baltimore, so often reported in the preceding volumes of Howard, and which are referred to in the
opinion of the court. The opinion contains, also, a statement
of the facts in the -present caseThe bill was originally filed in the Circuit Court for Balti-.
more county (State court) by Charles F. Mayer and John
IBarney, trustees of John Gooding, under his insolvency in
1829, against John Gooding, jun., Charles Oliver, and Robert
M. Gibbes. It was removed into th Circuit Court of the
United States, upon the application of John Gooding, junior,
who alleged that he was a citizen of Virginia. An answer
was filed by Gooding, who afterwards died, and White became
administrator de bonis non of the first John Gooding. A bill
of revision, was filed, and other proceedings took place,
amongst which was a suggestion of the death of John Barney, so that Mayer became the surviving trustee. Gibbes
and Oliver answered, and in May, 1858, Judge Giles, then
holding a Circuit Court, dismissed the bill; fronm which order
-Mayer appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Mayer and Mr. Beverdy Johnsoa for
the appellant, and submitted on printed argument by .HAr. fDulkny and Mr. Campbell for the appellees.
It is proper to mention lt:i,.a -bon the mandate of this court,

DECEMBER TELM, 1860.

319

Mayer, Trutee, v. WFuite, Adm.

in the case of Gooding, 17th Howard, 274, went down, the
executor.3 of Oliver paid into court the money'and stocks sued
fbr; and afterwards, in pursuance of an order- of the court,
passed on the 28th June, 1858, (after the dismissal- of the bill,
as above mentioned,) the samestocks and money wer paid
out of court to White. It was agreed by the'counsel that the
claim of Mayer was exclusively against White as administrator.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of Maryland.
The bill was filed in the court below by Charles F. Mayer,
"the surviving trustee of John Gooding, appointed under certain proceedings instituted by Goodijg beforo the comirnssioners of insolvent debtors for the cety and county of BaltiMTryland, in
more, for the benefit of the inscivent laws
October, 1829. Gooding was an original owner of a share in
what is known as the Baltimore Mexican Company, which,
in 1816, furnished General M1ina with the means to fit out-a
warlike expedition against Mexico, then a province of Spain.
The expedition failed, and Mina perished with it soon after he
landed. Mexico haying subsequently achieved her independ'ence, the company made application to the new dovernment
*to assume the debt, which it did, by a decree of the 28th June,
.1824; but payment was delayed, from time to time, until this,
' with other claims against the Government, were adjusted and
discharged, under the convention between this Government
and. Mexico, of April, -1839. The share of Gooding, which
was one-ninth of the ifiterest in the contract of Mina, amounted, at the time of its allowance by the commissioners under
this convention, to the sum of $39,381.82. The complainant
clainis this amount, .with interest, under the insolvent assignment made by Gooding for the benefit of all his creditors, as
already stated, under the insolvent laws of Maryland, in 1829.
The defendant, White, the administrator de bonis non of
Gooding, sets up a title to the fund as the personal .representative of 'the estate, and claims it as part of the assets which
belong to the heirs and distributees.

SUPREME COURT.
Mfayer, Trustee, v. White, Adm.

The history of the litigation among the several claimants to
the money, awarded to the Baltimore Company by the commissioners, under the convention with Mexico, (amounting to
the sum of $354,436.42,) of which the fund in controversy is a
part, will be found in the 11th How., 529; 12 Ib., 111; 14 lb.,
610; 17 Ib., 234; and 20 Ib., 535.
In the case. of John Gooding, administrator de bonis non
of John Gooding, deceased, v. Charles Oliver and others,
executors of Robert Oliver, (17 How., 274,) the present fund
was in controversy between the administrator of the estate,
claiming it as assets, and the representatives of Robert Oliver,
claiming it by virtue of a purchase from an insolvent trustee,

under proceedings instituted by Gooding for the benefit of the
insolvent act of Maryland in 1819. As between these parties
the court held, that the administrator was entitled to the fund
as assets of the estate. The reasons for this decree will be
found in the report of the case referred to.
Gooding, as has been already stated, again took the benefit
of the insolvent act in 1829, and the question now is between
the trustee appointed under these insolvent proceedings, as
assignee of his estate for the benefit of creditors, and the present administrator de bonis non, the personal representative.
The executors of Oliver, who claimed under the trustee in
the first insolvent proceedings in 1819, failed to hold the fund
against the personal representative in the case referred to,
upon the.ground the courts of Maryland had decided that the
contract of the Baltimore Company with General Mina, which
had been made in violation of our neutrality laws, was so
fraught with illegality and turpitude, and so utterly null and
void, that no claim to, or interest in it, passed under their insolvent laws to the trustee; and such being the construction
of a statute of Maryland by her own courts, this court, according to the established course of decision, felt bound by it, and
consequently the insolvent trustee took no interest in the
Mina contract, nor Robert Oliver, or his personal representatives, who claimed under him.
The case now comes before us between the trustee in the

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

321

M~ayer, Trustee, v. Whie Adra-

insolvent proceedings of 1829, under the assignment for the
benefit of creditors, and the present personal representative
of the estate of Gooding, the former in the mean time having
*died;and the principal question . whether or not this trustee
took the interest of the insolvent in the Baltimore Company
in 1829, by virtue of these proceedings. If the interest is to
be regarded in the same condition as it stood, according to
the judgment of the Maryland courts, at the time of the
former insolvent proceedings, our conclusion must be the
same as in the case of Gooding, administrator, v. the Executors of Oliver- The personal representative would b6 entitled
to the fund.
It is insisted, however, by the learned counsel, on behalf of
the trustee, that the state and condition of this interest had in
the mean time changed, and had become an admitted legitimate demand or debt against the Mexicau Government,
wholly exempt from any taint of illegality or turpitude, and
hence to be regarded as property of the insolvent, to be devoted to the benefit of his creditors.
This interest or deniand, as it stood in 1819, at the time of
the first insolvent assignment, as we have seen, arose out of a
-contract between the Baltimore Company and General Mina,
which, as admitted, was illegal, being in violation of our neutrality laws. Whether that constituted a valid objection to
the assignment under the insolvent laws of Maryland, for the
benefit of creditors, is not a question now before us. The affirmative was held by a court havingjurisdiction to decide it.
If an original question, we should not have had much difficulty in disposing of it. This contract, then, stood simply upon
the personal obligation of Mina, and as between the parties it
was void and of no effect, if Mina or his legal representatives
chose to avail themselves of its illegality. But Mexico, after
she had gained her independence in 1824, assumed the debt
due to the Baltimore Company as one of national obligation,
which had been contracted for the service and benefit of the
The
nation by a general declared bere meritos de a paf..
assumption was the free act of a sovereign power, and wholly
independent of the question as to the legal qualities or characvoL,. xxIv.

21

SUPREME COUR1.
Fackler v. Ford et al.

ter of the debt, as viewed under the statute or common law
of the country in which it originated. It was assumed by the
Congress of Mexico, upon public political considerations, in
favor of persons who had contributed their means in support
of the struggle which resulted in the achievement of her independence, and the obligation rests not upon the contract of
General Mina, or municipal regulations, but upon the decree'
of the sovereign power and public law of the nation.
We may add, that after the recognition and adoption of this
claim by the Mexican authorities, the Government of the
United States, through its minister to that country, made it
the subject of negotiation on behalf of the parties in interest,
who were citizens, for the purpose of procuring indemnity for
the same, and which resulted, as has been already stated, in
its satisfaction, under the convention of 1839.
We have no difficulty, therefore, in holding that the demand
in 1829 constituted a right of property or interest in Gooding,
the insolvent, that passed to the plaintiff as trustee, by virtue
of the assignment under the insolvent proceedings of 1829.
The case of Comegys et al. v. Vase, (1 Peters, 193, 216, 218,
220,) is a full authority upon this point.
As to the objection that the plaintiff is concluded by the
decision of this court in the case of the former, Administrator
of Gooding v. the Executors of Oliver, reported in the 17th
How., 274, one of the questions decided in that case furnishes
a conclusive answer to it. We need not repeat the reasons
or authority which led thi's court to its conclusion, which are
there stated at large.
The decree of the court below reversed and remanded, with
directions to enter a decree for the plaintiff against the administrators of Gooding, deceased, in pursuance of above opinion
and stipulations of parties.

JoHN

M.

FACKLER, APPELLANT, V. JOHN

R. FORD AND OTHERS.

rhe fourth and fifth sections of the act of Congress passed on the 31st of March,
1830, (4 Stat. at L., 392,) entitled "An act for the relief of purchasers of pub

