DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Washington, Alexandria, &. (eorggqwn S. P. Co. v. Siclerk

333
el al.

now acknowledges. But it is no part of the policy of this
section to encourage frauds by releasing the fraudulent .parts
from the obligation of his contract. The allegation of the
answer that the contract was in violation of the treaty with the
Indians, and of the acts of Congress, may be a confession of
the respondent's own fraud, but it can give no right to commit another.
The answer filed in this case is by Faekler alone; the record
shows the agreement of counsel that the bill be dismissed as
to Mfills.
The court below were therefore right in decreeing a specific
performance of the contract, but erred in that part of the decree which orders a conveyance of the undivided moiety of the
140 acres. The contract is for a specified and divided moiety
of the land, and an undivided moiety of the ferry privilege,
and that portion of the decree which orders a conveyance according to the contract is affirmed wi-th costs, and record re.
mitted, with instructions to the court below to reform theii
decree in accordance with this opinion.

THE WASHINGTON, ALEXANDRrA, AND GEORGETOWN STEAM-PACK.
ET COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. FREDERIC, E. SICKLES
AND TRuEmAN Coox. TE WASHINgTON, ALEXANDRIA, AND
GEORGETOWN STEAld-PACKET COMPAIir, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
v. FREDERIC E. SiCKLES AND TRUEMAN COOK.
Docket entries in the courts of the District of Columbia, as in Maryland, stand
in the place of; and perhaps are, the record, and receiye all the consideration
'that is yielded to the formal record in other-States.
The record of'a former suit between the parties6, in which the declaration consisted of a special count, and the commcn money counts, and where there was
a general verdict on the entire declaration, cannot be given in evidence as an
estoppel in a second uit founded on the special count; for the verdict may
have been rendered on the common counts.
This rule is not varied by the circumstance that after the verdict was rendered
the court directed judgment to be entered for the plaintiib on the first count
in the declaration, being the special ccunt.
The authorities upon the doctrine of estoppel examined.

SUPREME COURT.
Washington, Alexandria, & Georgetown S. P. Co. v. Sickles et aZ.

TEE two cases were brought up by writ of error from the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia.
They. related to the same subject-matter, and were argued
together. The first case was an action brought by Sickles and
Cook for their share of the earnings of the steam-packet company by the use of their cut-off from March 13, 1846, to October 19, 1846; the second for the same earnings from October
13, 1846, up to December 26, 1855.
The case was before this court at a preceding term, viz:
December term, 1850, and is reported in 10 Howard, 419.
The suit there was for earnings from -20th August, 1844, to
March, 1846.
When the mandate went down a new trial was had, (the
judgment of the court below having been reversed by this
court,) which took place at .October term, 1855. The plaintiffs below, Sickles and Cook, had in the mean time amended
their pleadings according to the evidence as given on the first
trial, by making the declaration consist of a special count and
the common money counts. The record entries were as follows, relative to this trial in i855:
Narr. Non assumpsit and issue.
November 22. Jury sworn; verdict for plaintiffs; dam.ages
$1,695.79, with interest from March 16, 1846; verdict rendered 7th December.
December 14. Judgment for plaintiffs on the first count in
the declaration.
December 14, 1855. Appeal bond, writ of error, citation, &c.
The writ of error thus sued out was not prosecuted, and the
case was docketed and dismissed, under the rule, with costs,
on December 19, 1856. Of cou.rse this was done at the instance of the counsel for Sickles and Cook.
On the 26th of December, 1855, the suits now in question
were brought by Sickles and Cook. The declaration consisted
of two special counts and the common money counts, which
were afterward abandonbd, and the case went to trial on the
two special couats. It resulted n a verdict for the plaintiftf
foi $16,388.25.

DECEM-ER TERM, 1860.

335

Co. v. Sickles et al.
Washington, Alexandria, & Geo'i ow. S. -P.

-

On the trial of each of the two last-mentioned cases ifi the
court below, the plaintiffs contended that by the verdict and
judgment rendered in the case tried in 1855, between said
plaintiffs and defendant, the existence of the contract as set
forth in the two first counts of their declarations in said causes,
(which was identical with that set forth in the declaration in
said first-mentioned cause,) and the rate of saving ascertained
by sid experiments, were judicially settled between said plaintiffs and defendant; and that in all subsequent suits between
the same parties on said contract, the said defendant was estopped to deny the same, or the rate of saving fixed by the
experiment provided for by said contract; and the court below
so ruled. The defendant excepted to the ruling of the court,
and presented objections in various forms by different exceptious.

.The reader will perceive that the principal question brought
before this court by the bills of exception was that relating to
the doctrine of estoppel, when taken in connection with the
order of the Circuit Court passed-on the 14th December, 1855,
ordering judgment to be entered on the first count of the declaration.
The case was argued by Mr. Badger and Mr. Carlislefor the
Bradley and Mr. Stone 'for the
plaintiffs in error, and by "Mr.
defendants.
The whole doctrine of est6ppel was reviewed, and also that
of docket entries as being records, In order to give some account of the views of the counsel upon the first subject, the
following may be referred to as a small branch of the argument.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error said:
low, the rule we take to be this. If,in the 'former proceedN
ing, the title of the party has been directly alleged, and an issue
taken upon it which involves no other matter, or if any fact being
part of that title has been thus separated from all other matters
and made the point of 'an? issue, the finding upon it may in
such subsequent suit be relied on in pleading a technical

SUPREME COURT.
Washington, Alexandria, & Georgetown S. P. Co. v. Sickles el al.

estoppel, and not otherwise. And that where in the former
suit there has not been such separation of the title from all
otaer matters, but the same has been involved in a general
issue with other matters, whether this arise from the mode of
pleading adopted by the parties, or required by the nature of
the action, no finding thereon can either establish or disaffirm
the title so as to estop either of the parties in a subsequent
suit; and that if it cannot operate as an estoppel by pleading,
neither can it have the effect of an estoppel when given in
evidence to the jury.
This is the undoubted law in England; which is proved by
the case of Outram v. Morewood, already cited, where Lord
Ellenborough shows the true nature and office of an estoppel
as distinguished from a bar; by the case of Evelyn v. Hayes,
cited with approbation in Outram v. Morewood, and tried before Lord Mansfield, which is precisely in point; by Hooper
v. Hooper, McCl. and Young, 509, where, in an action for
obstructing a way, the record of a verdict and judgment for
the plaintiff in a former action, had on the plea of not guilty,
was given in evidence, and it was held not to be conclusive of
the plaintiff's right so as to prevent the defendant from going
into his case; by Miles v. Rose, 5 Taunt. 704; and by the case
of Carter v. James, 13 M. and W., 137; and there is no English case to the contrary.
It is true that different views prevail in the several States of
the Union-some holding the English doctrine, and some admitting, in aid of the record, parol evidence to show on -what
points the case turned, of the most dangerous and latitudinarian scope and tendency, upon the notion that certainty was
to be obtained by evidence in its nature the most uncertain,
and that there was no danger in allowing one trial upon a
general issue to conclude a question of title.
Mr. Justice GRIER, when delivering the opinion of this court,
in the case of Richardson v. Boston, (19 How.,) takes notice
of this contrariety of opinion in the several States; and we
submit that the present is a fit occasion for this high tribunal
to lay down a rule which may tend to introduce order and
consistency into the decisions in the States, and at all events

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

3.37

Wasldngto, Alexandria, & Georgetown S. P. Co. v. Sickles et al.

to establish the true rule in this District; Here the court is
trammeled by no State decisions establishing a local law, to
which respect must be paid, whether right, or wrong.
And we submit that the English decisions are in every respect entitled to the highest authority. They show the rule
of the English law from the earliest times-from the Year
Books down-of that common law. which was brought over
by. our ancestors and established here, which is still maintained in many of the States in its'original simplicity and directness, and which ought not to be subject to capricious variations by judges speculating how, in this age of progress, they
can amend what they have no rightful authority to alter-'
what they are appointed to expounpd, and apply, and preserve,
until the legislative power shall interpose to change it.
If this court should adopt the exposition of the law estab.lished in England, the rule -is clear beyond controversy, that
in a second action for a second injury to the same" right or title,
a verdict and judgment for a plaintiff on the plea of not guilty
in a former suit cannot be used as an qstoppel in pleading,
and..cannot bdconclusive of the right when given in, evidence
to the jury.
And does not this rule apply to and settle our case? Otdrs
is an action of as~umpsit. There is no English case in assumsit to which the rule has been applied, because no case has
happened iin which it could have been applied. 'Before Slade's
case, as Lord Loughb-brough, has shown, this action was never,
brought- to recover a debt under the name of damages, 'but
only to recover special' damages for a. breach of promise, as,
for example, to recover on account of a breach of a promise to
deliver 'corn, by which the 'plaintiff was obliged to buy corn
at a higher price.
See Rudder v. Price, 1.Hen. Bl., pages 550 and 551, n.
(a.)
Since the 29 Car. II no shch case 'could well 'arise, since
all contracts not to.be performed within 'ayear were avoided
by that statute, unless reduced to .writing, and signed .by the
party to be charged therewith. Heumce, cases resting upon
mere verbal evidence could not pxe.eit sfeh a question, and if
VOL, "XXIV.

22.

SUPREME COURT.
Tashington, Alexandria, & Georgetown S. P. Co. v. Sickles d al.

the contract was in writing, there would be no occasion to call
in the aid of the former proceedings. But no case on an as
sumpsit where this question could have arisen has been found,
so far as we know, in any English reports. Nothing is said
against the application of the rule to it, nor intimated, and
the case now before the court is pre'cisely within the principle
on which the cases establishing th6 rule are founded.
Upon the particular point decided by this court the counsel
for the defendants in error said:
if. Are the plaintiffs to be deprived of the benefit of the
estoppel for the reason that, whefi the verdict -was rendered,
the declaration, in addition to the special count in the contract,
contained also common counts?
The jury by their verdict necessarily found the statements
of fact in all the counts of the declaration to be true. The
theory of several counts is-that they represent distinct and independent transactions, otherwise. the declaration would be
subject to the charge of duplicity. When the verdict was rendered the plaintiffs might have had it entered on the first
count, and the judgment'following the verdict, there could
have been no question as to the estoppel in this case, (if there
can be an estoppel in. any case,) for that count sets forth the
contract and experimeIt, with the result of it.
This will hardly be doubted-. Yet why is it, if not because
the verdict found the truth of the allegation in each count?
Although the plaintiffs did not, when the verdict was rendered, have it entered on the first count alone, yet they subsequbntly had the verdict amended and applied to that count
by the court, who were satisfied that .the evidence given applied to it, and not to the otheri counts. That the court had
power to do this i well settled, -and an 4mendnient may be
made even after writ of error brought and argued in tl e upper
court.
See Matheson, administrator, v. Grart, administrator, 2
Howard, 281, 282.
See Stockton et al. v. Bishop, 4 How., 167.
Bank of the United States ?. Moss, 6 How., 39, shows that

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

339

Was7 ngton, Alzaiuria,6 QJeorgqelown S. P. Co. v. Sickes et al.

at a subsequent term, after judgment has been arrested, the
verdict may be amended and applied-to'the good count.
See, also, Parker v. Turner et al., 12 How., 45, as to amendments of verdicts at common law, and also the effect of the
32d section of the Judiciary act of 1789. If courts have power
to amend verdicts for one purpose, there can be no good reason why they should not for another, when the amendment is
made to apply the verdict to the count on which the testimony
was given, particularly when the one purpose is as meritorious
as the other. It may be that the amendment of the verdict in
the case tried in 1855 is not regularly noted, but it is sufficiently shown by the entry of the judgment, by order of court,
as the judgment imust follow the verdict. This could not have
been urged in a direct proceeding on that judgment, but would.
have been cured by the 32d section of the Judiciary act of
1789.
See 12 How., 45, and 4 How., 167.
It can hardly be an objection in a collateral proceeding.
This doctrine of estoppel is-not a mere technical rule, tending to exclude truth, but it is based on. sound principles of
.pablic policy. Society has an interest in putting an end to
litigation, and preventing the hunnecessary repetition of it.
Courts are established for the benefit of the community, notto encourage the litigious spirit of individuals. This case is
a striking illustration of the necessity of such a rule. The
trial of the questions now disputed occupied the time of the
court and jury below for fourteen business days. - It does not
appear that there was a motion for a new trial;'if made, it was
overruled before judgment was entered.
No writ of error was prosecuted.
Uuder such circumstances, public policy forbids a retrial of
facts thus established.
The defendafits had a fair trial as to the contract-had nine
years to prepare for the trial, and should now abide by its re.
Bult.
See Greenleaf on Evidence, vol. 1, sec. 531, R. 2..
Broom's Legal Maxims p. 181.
"Interest republicee ut sit finis litium."

840

SUPREME COURT.
Washingtom, Alexandria, & Georgetown . P. Co. v. Sickles d at.

Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of thecourt.
The defendants in error, as plaintiffs, sued the plaintiffs in
error, in assumpsit in the Circuit Court, upon a special parol
contract, purporting to have been made in 1844, to the effect
.that they having a patent for Sickles's cut-off, for saving fuel
in the working of steam-engines,and the defcndants being
the owners of a certain steamboat, it was agreed between
them that the said patentees should attach to the engine of
the defendants one of their machines; and that the defendants should pay for the use thereof three-fourths of the saving
of fuel produced thereby, the payments to be made from time
to time, when demanded. That, to ascertaip the saving of
thel, an experiment. should be made in the manner described
if the declaration, and that-the result should be taken as the
rate of saving during the continuance of the contract, which
was to be as long as the patent-and the steamboat should last.
The plaintiffs aver, that the experiment had been. made, and
the rate of saving had been duly ascertained; and that the
machine had been used in connection with the engine on the
said boat, until the commencement of the suit.
In the first count of the declaration, the plaintiffs further
stated, that they brought, in March, 1846, a suit on this contract in the Circuit Court for the sum then due,. and had obtained a verdict and judgment therefor in the Circuit Court in
1856, and had thus established conclusively the contract between the parties. These last allegations are not coatained in
the second count. The defendants pleaded the general issue.
The plaintiffs produced upon the trial, as the only testimony
of the contract, the proceedings of the suit mentioned in the
declaration, and insisted that these proceedings operated as an
estoppel upon the defendants. These proceedings consisted
of a writ, a declaration, containing two counts upon the con-.
tract, and the common counts, and the plea of the general
issue; also a docket entry of a general'verdict, in favor of the
plaintiffs, on the entire declaration, and a docket entry of
judgment, subsequently rendered on the first count-a count
similar to the counts in the declaration in the present suit.
The defndants ohjected to these docket entries as evidence

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

341

Waqhinglon, Alexandria, & Georyedown S. P. Co. v. Sickles et aL.

of a verdict and judgment; but insisted they were simply
memoranda or minutes, from which a record of a verdict and
judgment were to be made. It appears that in the courts of
this district, as in Maryland, the docket stands in the place of,
or, perhaps, is the record, and receives here all the consideration that is yielded to the formal record in other States. These
memorials of their proceedings must be intelligible to the
court that preserves them, as their only evidence, and we cannot, therefore, refuse to them faith iand credit. Bateler v.
State, 8 G. and J., 381; Ruggles v. Alexander, 2 Rawle, 232.
Besides this testimony of the contract, the plaintiffs proved
the quantity of the fuel that had been .used in the running of
the boat, and relied upon the rate as settled to determine their
demand, and insisted that the defendants were estopped to
prove there was no such contract; or to disprove any one of
the averments in the first count of the declaration in the
former suit; or to show that no saving of the wood had been
effected; or to show that the so-called experiment was not made
pursuant to the contract, or was fraudulently made, and was
not a true and genuine exponent of the capacity of the said
cut-off; or to prove that the said verdict was in fact -rendered
upon all the testimony and allegations that were submitted to
the jury, and was in point of fact rendered, as by the docket
entry it purports to have been, upon the issues generally, and
not upon the first count specially.
The Circuit Court adopted these conclusions of the plaintiffs, and excluded the testimony offered by the defendants, to
prove those facts.
The authority of the resjudicata, with the limitations under
which it is admitted, is derived by us from the Roman law
and the Canonists. Whether a judgment is to have authority
as such in another proceeding, depends, an idem c6rpus sit; quantitas eadem, idemjus; et an eadem eausapetendiet eadem conditiopersonarum; quae nisi omnia concurrent alia res est; or, as stated by
another jurist, exceptionem rei judicatce, obstare quotiens eadem
qcestio inter eaadem personas revocatur. The essential conditions
under which the exception of the resjudicatabecomes applicable are the identity of the thing demanded, the identity of

SUPRIEME COURT.
Was1hington, Alexandria, & Georgetownx S. P. Co. v. SickWe ed aZ.

the cause of the demand, and of the parties in the character ip
which they are litigants. This court described the rule in
Apsden v. Nixon, (4 How. S. 0. R., 467,) in such cases to be,
that a judgment or decree-set up as a bar by plea, or relied on
as evidence by way of estoppel, must have been made by a
court of competent jurisdiction upon the same subject-matter,
between the same parties for the same purpose. The thing
demanded in the present suit is a sum of money, being a part
of the consideration or price for the use of a valuable machine
for which the plaintiffs had a patent, and is the complement
of a whole, of which the sum. demanded in the first count of
the declaration in the former suit is the other part. The special
counts in the declaration of each suit are similar, being framed
upon this contract; and a decision in the one suit on those
counts in favor of the plaintiffs necessarily included and virtually determined its sufficiency to sustain the title of the
plaintiffs on it. It was, therefore, admissible as testimony.
This conclusion is supported by adjudged cases, and the authority of writers on the law of evidence. Gardener v. Buckbe,
3 Cow., .120; .Dutton v. Woodman, 9 Cushing R., 256; Bonnibr des Preuves, sec. 766; 8 Dalloz, Jur. Generale, 256, 257,
258. Buller, in his w-'rk on Nisi Prius, says: "If a verdict be
had on the same poiuc, and between the same parties, it may
be given in evidence, though the triat were not had for the
same lands, for the verdict in such a case is very persuading
evidence, because what twelve men have already thought of
the fact may be supposed fit to direct the determination of
the jury. * * * It is not necessary that the verdict should
be in relation to the same land; for the verdict is only set up
to prove the point in question, and every matter is evidence
that amounts to a proof of the point in question." B. N. P.,
232. The plaintiffs in error contend that, conceding the
record to be admissible as evidence, to render the verdict and
judgment in the first suit an estoppel, it must be shown by
the record, that the very point which it is sought to estop the
party from contesting was distinctly presented by in issue,
and expressly found by the jury, and that no estoppel by verdict and judgment can arise in an action on the case, or an

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

348

'fangton,Alandria,& Georgetown S. P. Co. v. Sikles d aL

action of assumpsit, tried upon the general issue, because in no
such action can any precise point be made and presented for trial
by a jury, and the cases of Outram r.. MIorewood, 3 East., 346,
Vooght v. Winch, 2 B. and Aid., 662, are cited in support of
this proposition. And the conclusion would seem to be proper
for the attainment of the end, for which authority was allowed
to the rcsjudicataas testimony. Experience has disclosed, that
for the security of 'rights, and the preservation of the repose
of society, a limit must be imposed upon the fadulties for litigation. For this purpose, the presumption has been adopted,
that the thing adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction,
under definite conditions, shall be received in evidence .as irrefragable truth.
This presumption is a guarantee of the future efficacy and
binding operation of the judgment. It presupposes that all
the constituents of the judgmnent shall be pr6served by the
court, which renders it in an authentic and unmistakable
form. In the courts, upon the continentof Europe,.and'-nthe
courts of chancery and admiralty in the United States, and:
Great Britain, -where the function .of adjudication.ls performed
entire by a tribunal composed of one or more judges, this .has"
been done without much difficulty. Th6 separate functions
of the judge and jury, in common-law courts, created a necessity for separating issues of law from'issues of fact; and with
the increase of commerce and civilization, transactions ' have
become more complicated and numerous, nd law and fact
have become more closely interwoven, so as to render their
separation more embarr,"sing. The ancient system of. pleading, which was conducive to the.end of ascertaining the material issue between the parties, and the preservation in a permanent form of the evidenice of the. adjudication, has *been
condemned as requiring unecessary precision, and subjecting
parties to over-technical rulbs, prolixity, and expense.- A
system, of general pleading has been extensively adapted* i
this country, which rendered 'the. application of the principl-e
contended for by the plaintiffs impiacticable, unless we were
prepared to restrict within narf'ow bounds the authority of the
resjudicata. It was consequently decided that it was not neces-'

SUPREME COURT.
Wasi rgton, Aleandria, f Ceorgetown S. P. Co. v. Sickles el al.

sary as between parties and privies that the record should show
that the question upon which the right of the plaintiff to recover, or the validity of the defence, depended for it to operate
conclusively; but only that the same matter in controversy
might have been litigated, and that extrinsic evidence would
be admitted to prove that the particular question was material,
and was in fact contested, and that it was referred to the decision of the jury.
In Young v. Black, 7 Or., 565, this court admitted in evidence a record of a former suit between the parties, in which
judgment was rendered for the defendant, supported by parol
proof that the cause of action in the two suits was te same.
The court say: "The controversy had passed in rentjudicatara';
and the identity of the causes of action being once established,
the law. would not suffer them again to be drawn into question." The current of American authority runs in the same
direction. Wood v. Jackson, 8 Wend., 9; Eastman v. Cooper,
15 Pick., 276; Marsh v. Pico, 4 Rawle, 288; Green. Ev., section 531.
In the case before the court, the verdict was rendered upon two
special countsand the general counts in assumpsit, but the verdictin the subsequent stage ofthe proceedings was applied by the
court only to the first count. The record produced by the plaintiffs showed that the first suit was brought apparently upon the
same contract as the second, and that the existence and validity of that contract might have been litigated: But the verdict
might have been rendered upon the entire declaration, and
without special reference to the first count. It was competent
to the defendants to show the state of facts that existed at the
trial, with a view to ascertain what was the matter decided
upon by the verdict of the jury. It may have been that there
was no contest in reference to the fairness of the experiment,
or to its sufficiency to ascertain the premium to be paid for
the use of the machine at the first trial, or it may have been
that the plaintiffs abandoned their special counts and recovered their verdict upon the general counts. . The judgment
rendered- in that suit, while it remains in force, and for the
purpose of 'naintaining its validity, is conclusive of all the

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Washington Aexandria, & Georgetown S.

345

. Co. v. Sieke s et al.

facts properly pleaded by the plaintiffs. But when it is pre.
sented as testimony in another suit, the inquiry is competent
whether the same issue ba been tried and settled by it. Merriam v. Whittemore, 5 Gray; 316; Hughes v. Alexander, 5
Duer R., 488. The defendants in. error contend the jury, by
their verdict, necessarily found the statements of fact in all the
counts of the declaration to be true; and the effect of a verdict
and judgment~on the whole declaration and a verdict and
judgment on the first count is precisely the same, in producing
an estoppel, as respects the matters contained in that special
count. But this is not true. If the verdict had been rendered
on the special count in exclusion of, the others,.the record
itself would have shown that the existence and validity of the
contract Were in question. There would have been no ground
for the inquiry whether any other issue was presented to the
jury. But where a number of issues are present d, the find-.
ing on any one of which will warrant the verdict and judgment, it is competent to'show that the finding was upon one
rather than on another of these different issues. Henderson v.
Kenner, 1 Rich. R., 474; Sawyer'v. Woodbury, 7 Gray, 499.
Nor do we think that the subsequent application of the verdict
to a "single count by the court precludes this inquiry. The
authority of the courts to make the application, and the circumstances under Which it is allowable, was considered by thiE
court in Matheson v. Grant, 2 H6w., 263. It is done for the
purpose of preventing the conseqlehces of a misjoinder of
counts in a declaration, or of the union of insufficient counts
with others, so as to allow a valid judgment on the verdict. 'It
had no reference to the use that might be made of the proceedings as testimony in another proceeding. In Maryland, the
power to amend the, record in this form was conferred by the
act of 1809. 8 Maxey, Laws, 484. The case is not embraced
in the earlier act of 1785 upon this subject. , 3 H. and J., 9;
Ibid, 9.1. It is the opinion of the court, that the Circuit Court
erred in holding that the plaintiffs in error were estopped by
the proceedings in the former suit/for" any inquiry in respect
to the matters in issue, and actually tried in that cause ;- and

346

SUPREME CO-RT.
Unite.d States v. Castro et al

its judgment is reversed, and the cause is remanded for fhrthei
proceedings, in conformity with this opinion.

THE UNiTED ST TS, APPELLANTS, V. JOSE CAsTO AND OTHERS
As a general rule, in order to support a title to land in California under a Mexican grant, the written evidence of the grant in the forms required by the
Mexican law must be found in the public archives and records, where they
were required by law and regulations to be deposited and recorded.
In order to pupport a title by secondary evidence, the claimant must show that
these title palers had been deposited and recorded in the -roper office; that
.the records and papers of that office, or some of them, lad been lost or destroyed; and also, that he entered into the possession of the premises and
exercised authority as owner within a reasonable time after the date of the
grant. The possession is an essential part of the secondary evidence of title.
Parol proof of a grant produced from a private receptacle, without proof that it
had been deposited and recorded in the proper officeand the loss and destruction of papers in that office, is not sufficient to support a title, even if jossession
be proved by the oral testimony of witnesses..

THis.was .an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The title of Castro is set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Stanton (Attorney General) for the
United States, apd Mr. Edward Swann for the appellees.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees claim title to elven leagues of land in Califoinia under ai Mexican grant.
In March, 1853, they filed a petition before the board of
land ommissioners, stating that the land in question was, on
the 4th of April, 1846, granted by Pio Pico, then Governor
of California, to Jose Castro, one of the appellees, under
whom the others claim as purchasers. The petition states
that the land was occupied and improved by the grantee soon
after the date of thetgrant.

