DE-0-EMBER TERM, 1860.
Sheirburn v. Cordova et al.

States, and exercised by the agents of the Government under
its authority; and even if there had been a final decree by the
dismissal of the bill, in addition to the refusal of the injunction, we perceive no ground upon which the writ of error
could be maintained under the 25th section of the act of 1789.
It is therefore dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

JOSEPH A. SHEIRBURN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JACOB IDE CORDOVA AND OTHERS.
By a statute 6f Texas, actions of ejectment, trespass to try title, &c., can, be
maintained upon certificates for bead rights or other equitable titles.
But this court has decided that, in the courts of the United States, suits for the
recovery of lands can only be maintained upon a legal title.
A plaintiff in the court below, who had nothing more than an incipient equity,
could not therefore maintain his action.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the western district of Texas.
The bill of exceptions contained the evidence of the title of
Sheirburn, the plaintiff, when the defendants objected to the
admissibility of said locations and entries because the same
were vague, uncertain, and indefinite, and also because surveys thereon were not returned to the General Land Office;
but the court overruled said objections, and the defendants
excepted thereto. The plaintiffs here closed.
The objection made in this court, viz: that the plaintiff
could not maintain the suit upon a head right in the court of
the United States, did not appear to have been made upon
the trial; but the question seemed to turn upon the validity
of the title of the defendants, which was sustained; and upon
that ruling the plaintiff brought the-case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Hale for the plaintiff in error, and Mr
Paschal for the defendants, both on printed arguments.
Mr. Paschalthus brought forward the objection upon which
the judgment of this court turned:

SUPREME COURT
Skeirburn v. Cordova et al.

1. That the plaintiff showed no standing in court-no such
title in himself as would enable him to attack the mere naked
possession of the defendants, muwh less their valid-paper titles.
The plaintiff showed nothing but a mere incipient equity-a
naked entry-which of itself, without a survey, according to
the decisions of this court, did not detach'the land from the
public domain.
. See Vaughan v. Chesnut, 2 Wash. C.
C. Rep., 160.
not
property subject
entry
was
that
the
mere
This case held
to sale.
In the case of Lessee of Sims v. Irwin, 8 Dallas, 425, (which
was a great case,) the subject-of entries and surveys was fully
discussed, and after great difficulty the court arrived at the
conclusion, that in Pennsylvania, the- entry payment and survey might constitute a legal title. And in Dubois v. Newman
et al., 4 Wash., 77, Mr. Justice Washington refused to go onestep further.
Therefore, the mere entry in Texas could give the plaintiff
no standing in a court of law, unless it can be deduced from
the twenty-first section of the Texas statute of limitations.
Acts of the Republic, vol. 5, p. 168; Hartly's Digest, art.
3,230.
As in Texas there is a mixed jurisdiction of law and equity,
the right to support trespass to try title there may well exist,
without it following, from the reasoning in the cases cited, that
the holder of this mere incipient equity can support ejectment
upon the common-law side of the Circuit Court-of the United
States. Such a right has io standing in a court of law.
Hart v. Turner, 2 Tex., 374.
It could only be used by one'mere locator against another.
But, if the second locator had first obtained a survey, owing
to a want of diligence in the first, then he has no right to
question De Cordova's title.
See Dubois v. Newman, 4 Wash., 76.
The history of the statute is, that the location or survey was
made color of title, as a defence under the sovereignty of the
soil, coupled with three years' actual possession.
See 15th section of the Texa statute of limitations.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

425-

Sheirburnv. Cordova et al.

An amendment was added, enabling the locator to support
an action to protect his location. But this must have had
reference to the location upon vacant land, just as the mere
possessor; who is judicially turned out, may maintain ejectment against the naked trespasser. It cannot be that a locator upon appropriated land can maintain an action at law upon
such an equity, in 'order to'test the validity of the first patent.
Such a doctriie is contrary to principle.
Christy v. Scott, 14 Howayd, 282.
Dubois'v. Newman, 4 Wash., 76.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit by the plaintiff to recover a parcel of land
in the county of Guadalupe, in'the State of Texas. The title
of the plaintiff consists of certain entries of head-rights embtacing the land in dispute." Ohe of these is in these words:*
Joseph A. Sheirburn, assignee of Victor Ed. Gaillon, enters
one-third of a league of land, situated on a noted island, about
six miles above the town of Walnut Springs, and extending
on the main land on the northeast side of the. Guadalupe river
for quantity; the said location, is also a short distance below a
very elevated mound on the west of the"river. Certificate 222.
Harrisburg county, October 16, 1838. In January, 1853, the
plaintiff applied to the district surveyor of Guadalupe county
for the survey of this and 6ther land embraced in the entries,
who declined to execute the. urveys, but it is admitted that
the entries cover the land in controversy. The defendants
relied upon a Mexican grant, issued in 1831 in favor of Antonio Maria Esnourizar,. for eleveu leagues of land, and which
embraces the same -land. The District Court pronounced this
gVant to be a valid appropriation of the land. described in it,
and the plaintiff alleges that there is error in that decision.
By a statute of Texas, "all certificates for head-rights, land
scrip, bounty warrants, or any other evidence of right to land
.ecognised by the laws f this Goverhment, which have been
located or surveyed, shall' be deemed and held as sufficient
title to authorize the maintenance of actions of ejectment.
Hart.
trespqss, or any other legal .remedy given by Jaw."

SUPREME COURT.
Tracy v. Holcombe.

Dig., art. 3,280. The testimony adduced by the plaintiff, it
would seem, would have authorized a suit in the courts of
Texas, where rights, whether legal or equitable, are disposed
of in the same suit. But this court has established, after full
consideration, that in the courts of the United States suits for
the recovery of land can only be maintained upon a legal title.
It is not contended in this case that the plaintiff has more than
an incipient equity. This question was so fully considered by
the court in Fenn v. Holme, 20 How., 481, that a further discussion isunnecessary.
Judgment of the District Court affirmed.

ALFRED TRACY, SURVIVING PARTNER OF EDWARD TRACY, PLAIN-TIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM HOLCOMBE.

Where the judgment of the court below reverses the decision of the inferior court
and awards a new trial, it is not a final judgment from which a writ of error

will lie to this court.
THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Supreme

Court of the State of Minnesota. ,
The record showed that a suit was brought by Tracy as
surviving partner against Holcombe, and on the 30th of December, 1857, the judgment of the court was entered that he
should recover $2,340.71, with costs.
On the .18th of July, 1859, the Supreme Court ordered that
"the judgment of the court below be, in all things, reversed,
and a new trial granted."
On the 8th of October, 1859, a writ of error was issued pursuant to section third of the act of Congress entitled, "An act
for the admission of Minnesota into the Union," passed May
11, 1858, and section eighteen of the act of Congress entitled,
"An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of
the Government for the year ending 30th June, 1859," passed
June 12, 1858.
It was submitted on the record by M-.Phillips for the plain.
tiff in error.

