DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

175

lfee1han et al. v. Forsyth.

other cargo is in the same form, and executed in the same
manner and for the same purposes, as one for gold and silver,
and so far as the instrumeift of writing was concerned- there
could hardly be a reason for taxing one and not the other.
In the judgment of this court the State tax in question is a
duty upon the export of gold and silver, and consequqntly repugnant to the clause in the Constitution hereinbefore referred to; and the judgment of the Court of Sessions must
therefore he reversed.
THOMAS MEEHAN AND CHARLES BALLANcE,
ERROR, V. ROBERTFORSYTH.

PLAnTiFFs Im

By the act of March 3d, 1823, entitled "An act to confirm certain claims to lots
in the village of Peoria, in the State of Illinois," the surveyor of public lands
was directed to survey the lots. A certified copy of such survey is admissible
in evidence. The survey in question was made in 1840.
Before the survey was made, BaUance made an entry of the quarter section, of
which the lot in controversy makes a part, and a patent was issued to him, by
wlch the United States granted it to him and his heirs, subject to the rights
of any and all persons claiming under the act of Congress above mentioned.
Tlus saviug clause was designed to exonerate the United States from any claim
of the patentee in thc event of his ouster by persons claiming under the acts
of Congress, and cannot be construed as separating any lots or parcels of land
from the operation of the grant, or as affording another confirmation of titles
existing under the acts of Congress described in it.
The possession of Ballance under this patent was adverse to that of a claimant
under the Peoria grant and therefore the statute of limitations ran upon it,
he having had possession for more than seven years, with a connected title in
law or equity, deducible of record from the State or the United States.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the northern district of Illinois.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr Ballance for the plaintiffs in error, and
by Mr Williams for the defendant.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court
This isan action of ejectment con.mmenced in the Circuit

SUPRhEME COURT.
Heehan el al. v. Forsyth.

Court for the recovery of a part of two lots of land in the city of
Peoria by the defendant in error against the plaintiffs in error.
The title of the plaintiff in the Circuit Court (Forsyth) originated in the claim of Antoine Lapance, an inhabitant within
the purview of the act of Congress, approved March 3d, 1823,
entitled "An act to confli ni certain claims to lots in the village
of Peoria, in the State of Illinois," which was surveyed the
first of September, 1840, by the surveyor of public lands, and
for which a patent issued on the first day of February, 1847
The plaintiff produced from the surveyor general's office a
certified copy of the survey, according to which the location
of .the claim was made. This testimony was objected-to, but
was received by the court, and we think properly An original of the plan of survey is retained in the office of the surveyor general, and a copy given by that officer, who is required
to keep it, upon general principles is admissible in evidence.
United States v. Pereheman, 7 Pet., 51.
It was agreed on the trial, that the defendant Ballance, and
those under him, had been in possession of the premises more
than ten years before the commencement of the suit. This
possession was shown by the facts, that he had cultivated a
portion of the quarter section described in his patent for more

than twenty years, and had resided on the quarter section
for twelve years, and had paid taxes upon this parcel of land
as a part of the said quarter section, but not as P separate subdivision. The plaintiff had not paid any of the taxes during
that period. The defendant Ballance made an entry of the
quarter section, of which the lot in controversy forms a part,
in 1837, and a patent issued to him in 1838, by which the
United States gave and granted to him and his heirs, subject
to the rights of any and all persons claiming under the act of
Cougress of 3d March, 1823, before referred to.
The defendant moved the court to instruct the jury, that if
they believe from the evidence that-said Ballance has had the
actual possession by residbnce on the land in controversy for
more than seven years, under the title he has exhibited, the
plaintiff cannot recover, and that the words in the patent of
Ballance of January 28, 1838, "subject, however, to the rights

DECEMBEI TERM, 1860.

177

Meehan et al. v. ForVyt.

of all persons claiming under the act of Congress of March 3d,
1823, entitled 'An act to confirm certain claims to lots in the
village of Peoria, in the State of llinois,' cannot operate as to
lessen the estate vested by the granting part of the deed."
The court declined to give these instructions, but charged
the jury "That to constitute an adverse possession against
the French claimants by the possession of another portion of
the quarter section by the defendant, as his tenant, entry and
possession must have been under a claim of title inconsistent
with that of the French claimants. If the entry and possession
were subject to the rights of the claimants existing under the
acts of Congress, then such possession as stated could not be
adverse, so long as that possession did not actually extend to
the lot sued for."
The court further instructed the jury- "That when the defendant made application for a pre-emption, he stated it was
made subservient to these French claims; and when the patent
was issued by the Government to him for this fractional quarter, it was made subject to these claims, therefore, the grant
made by the Government, as contained in the patent, did not
necessarily operate as a conveyance of the entire quarter section to the grantee, but the clause inserted in the patent had
the effect of excluding from the operation of the grant that
portion of the quarter covered by these Frenuh claims, consequently, if at the time of the grant to Ballance there was any
one capable of taking lot 63, under the acts of Congress of
1820 and 1823, then lot 63 was excluded by law and by the
terms of the grant, and was excepted, (in other words, lot 63
was not granted to Ballance,) and he took his title subject to
-uch exclusion or exception."
We think that the Circuit Court erred in its interpretation
of this patent. The patent recites that "full payment" had
been made by the grantee for the southwest fractiondl quarter
of section nine, in township eight north, of range eight -ast,
containing one hundred and forty-seven 43-100ths acres, according to the official plat of the survey of said lands rettrned to
the General Land Office by the surveyor general, which said
tract has been purchased by Charles Ballance. It proceeds.to
voL. XXIV

12

SUPREME COURT.
Meehani et al. v. Forsyth.

declare that the United States had given and granted the said
tract above described, to have and to hold the same to him
and his heirs, subject, however, to the rights of any and all
persons claiming, &c., &c. This saving clause was designed
to exonerate the United States from any claim of the patentee,
in the event of his ouster by persons claiming under the acts
referred to, and cannot be construed as separating any lots or
parcls of land from the operation of the grant, or as affording
another confirmation of titles existing under the acts of Congress described in it. The possession of Ballance, under this
patent, was adverse to that of the claimants under the acts of
1820 and 1823, in every case in which their claim was not
specifically admitted by him. He was in no sense their
tenant. nor did the saving in the act create any fiduciary relation between him and any other person, so as to prevent the
operation of the statute of limitations. The patent does not
impose upon him any duty to recognise these claims. It only
requires him to accept the title of the United States with
knowledge that such claims exist, and that they do not intend
to deny or to destroy them, nor to defend his title against
them.
The case of Bryan v. Forsyth, 19 How., 334, involved a
controversy for a lot in the city of Peoria, similarly situated
as that which forms the subject of this suit. The court, in
that case, said that a patent with a saving like that we are
considering was a fee-simple title on its face, and is such a
title as will afford protection to those claiming under it, either
directly or having a title connected with it, with possession
for seven years, as required by the statute of Illinois.
The act of limitations of Illinois (Revised Statutes, 349, sec.
8) protects the claim of a person for lands, which has been
possessed by actual residence thereon, having a connected
title in law or equity, deducible of record from that State or
the Umted States.
The title of the defendant, and the possession which he was
admitted to have had, fulfilled the requisitions of the law, and
the court should have given the instructions asked for, and
erred in giving the instructions submitted to the jury.

DECEMBER TElR.

1860.

Gregg et aZ. v. Forsyth.

Judgment reversed and cause remanded.

RIOHARD GREGG AND CHARLES BALLANCE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. ROBERT FORSYTH.
The possession of Ballance in the fractional quarter section of land spoken of in
the preceding report of the case of Meehan and Ballance v. Forsyth, so as to
entitle him to the benefit of the statute of limitations, need not have been by
himself personally, but possession by a tenant under him enured to his benefit.
The circumstance that Ballance had laid out the land into lots and blocks did
not make it necessary for him to reside upon every lot. The law only required
him to possess and reside upon the premises claimed by his title papers.
The volumes of American State Papers, Public Lands, three of which were published by Duff Green, under the revision of the Secretary of the Senate, by
order of the Senate, contain authentic papers winch are admssible as testimony without further proof.
A party cannot object to the reading of a record and deed of sale, upon the
ground that the proceedings had been irregular, when the parties to the decree had not complained of it. The objectors were strangers to these proceedings.

THIS case, like the preceding, of which it was a branch, was
also brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the northern district of Illinois, and was argued together with it by the same counselMr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of ejectment for a lot of land in the city
of Peoria, in the State of Illinois, commenced by the defendant in error against the plaintiffs in error.
The title of the plaintiff in the Circuit Court is shown by a
patent of the United States in favor of the legal representaives oi Antoine Lapance, who w64 an inhabitant or settler
within the purview of the act of Congress approved 3d March,
1823, entitled "An act to confirm certain claims to lots in the
village of Peoria, in the State of Illinois," which patent bears
date the first day of February, 1847, and is founded upon an
official survey of the first of September, 1840. The-plaintiff
deraigned his title from the patentees. In tracing his title he

