DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

303 .

"i gins et al. v. Gray et al.

ble by an alteration of the -circumstances and reasons on which
the law is founded." The inducements that moved the Legislature to concede the -favor contained in the act of 1833 are
special, and were probably t emporary in their operation. The
usefulness of the corporation had been curtailed in consequence of the decay of their buildings and the burden of taxes.
It may be supposed- that in eighteen years the buildings
would be renovated, and that the corporation would be able'
afterwards to sustain some share of the taxation of the State.~
The act of 1851 embodies the sense of the Legislature to this
effect.

It is in the nature of such a privilege as the act of 1833 confers, that it. exists bene pladitum, and may be revoked at the
pleasure of the sovereign.
Such was the conclusion of the courts in Commonwealth v.
Bird, 12. MIass,, 442; Dale v. Governor,- 3 Stew., 887; Alex"ander v. Willington, 2 Russ. and M., 35; 12 Harris, 232;
-Lindley's Jurisp., ec. 42.
It is the opinion of" the court that there is no error in the
judgment of the Supreme Court, within the scope of the writ
to that court, and its judgment is affirnied.

WLI&A WiGnMs, J&hMES M. JoNEs, AND Jomr B. WgiLii,
CoMPLAINANTS, v. JoN B. GRAY AND Thow- s TAYLOo.
The Circuit Court certified that they had divided in opinion upon a question
whether a party had a right to proceed summarily on motion to vacate a decree
in that court.
The question certified is merely one of practice, to be governed by the rules prescribed by this court, and the established principles and usages of a chancery
court. And even if a summary proceeding on.motion might have been a
legitimate mode of proceeding, yet the court, in its discretion, had a right to
refuse, and to order a plenary proceeding by bill and answer. The. exercise
of such a discretionary power by the court below cannot be revised in this
court upon appeal or certificate of division, and this court therefore decline
expressing any opinion on the-question certified.

THIs case came up on a certificate of a division of opinion

SUPREME COURT.
Wiggins et al. v. Gray et al.

between the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the northern district of California.
The question certified is stated in the opinion of the court.
The case -was argued by Mr. Bayard, upon a brief filed by
himself and Mr. Collier, for the complainants, and by Mr.
Walker and Mr. Cushing for the defendants.
The question' being merely one of practice, which is authoritatively settled by the judgment of this court, it is not thought
necessary to give the authorities referred to.
Mr. Chief Jusfice'TAN-EY-delivered the opinion of the court."
This case comes before the court upon a certificate of division
of opinion between the judges of the Circuit 'Court for the district of California, sitting as a court of equity.
In stating the facts upon which the quesion certified .arose,
the court gives a history of the case, and it appears that a bill
was filed in a State court of California, and was afterwards removed to t'he District Court of the Ulnited 'States, by order of
the court, pursuant to an.agreement made by The counsel for
the respective parties; that before it -was transferred from the
State court, one of the complainants and one ofthedefendant
died; and the representatives of neither of them were afterthe State court before the remowards made parties, ,dither .in
val, or the District Court of the _-United States, after Tfhe case
was transferred to that court. And in this condition of the
case, and without these parties, a inal 'decree was Tendered in
the last-ientioned court. 'These proceedings were transferred
to the Circuit Court of the United States;under the act of
Congress of April 30, 1856; and a :bill was afterwards filed in
that court to set aside and vacate the final decree which had
been "rend6red as above mentioned; but in that proceeding'
,thd.Circuit Court held that it had not jurisdiction, because
theparties made defendants resided in New York, where the
prQcess of the court could not lawfuliy be served upon fhem.
,The dates of these several. proceedings in the diffirent courts,
and the motions and agreements ofcounsel, are partimularly

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Wiggins et al. v. Gray et al.

set forth in the statement; -but they are not material to the
decision of this court, and need not3 therefore, be repeated

here.
the Circuit Court further certify, that after all of these proceedings were had, and the bill filed against the citizens of
New York dismissed, a motion was made "to vacate the final
decree rendered, and, to remand the ease to the State court, in
which it originated; and that the motion was predicated on
the ground that the whole proceedings, from the time the case
was transferred thence, including the decree, were null and
void, and not merely voidable, and therefore might be set
aside on motion."
Upon this motion the judges divided in opinion, as they
certify, upon the following question: "whether, under the
circumstances detailed, this court (the Circuit Court) has authority to vacate summarily, on motion, the decree of the
District Court of the United States for the northern district
of California, and remand the case to the thitd judicial district
of the State."
It will be observed, that the grounds upon which the decree
of the District Court is alleged to be void, or voidable, are not
stated, -nor the questions which arose in the State court, or the
courts of the United States; nor does it appear what errors
are supposed to have been committed, whidh it is proposed to
bring for revision before the Circuit Court, and to correct by
a summary proceeding on this motion.
Tha only q uestibn certified by the Circuit Court is, whether,
under' the, circumstances of the case as detailed in the statemeut, it could proceed summarily on motion to vacate and
declare void. the decree. The inquiry obviously relates altogether'to the practice of the court as a court of equity. And
this qurestion, often, depends upon the sound judicial discretion
of the court, regud'ted: by-the rules prescribed by this court,
an the general prihcibles - and established usages which govern proceedingo ih a court of chancery; and whether it wili
proceed in a summary manner on motion, or require plenary
proceedings by bill and answer; must depend upon the partic
VOL.. xx~r..

20

SUPREME COURT.
Wiggins et al. v. Gray et al.

ular circumstances of the case before it, and the object sought
to be attained.
The act of 1802, chap. 32, which authorizes the certificate
of division, evidently did not intend to give this court jurisdiction, in that mode of proceeding, upon any question of
common law or equity, that would not be open to revision
here upon writ of error or appeal. It was so decided in Davis
i. Braden, 10 Pet., 288, and in Parker v. Nixon, 10 Pet., 410.
And it has repeatedly been held that the decision of the inferior court, upon a question depending upon the exercise of a
sound judicial discretion 'in a matter of practice as to the mere
form of proceeding, is not open to revision in this court.
If the judges had united in refusing the summary proceedings on motion, it is very clear that the decision could not
have been revised in this court upon appeal, although this
tribunal might be of opinion that the relief sought might have
been legitimately granted in that mode of proceeding; for
this discretion in a matter of practice resting exclusively with
the inferior -court, it has the right to determine for itself
whether it will proceed in a summary way, or refuse to do so
wfienever it thinks the purposes of justice will be better accomplished in a plenary proceeding by bill and answer; and
consequently no appeal will lie from its decision, made in the
exercise of this discr'etionary power. In the' case before us,
by the division of opinion between the judges, the motion was
as legally and effectually refused as if both had concurred in
the refusal. And as the decision in the latter case could not
have been reviewed here upon appeal, for want of appellate
jurisdiction over such questions, we should hardly be justified
in assuming jurisdiction, and exercising appellate powers over
the same questions when they come before us on a certificate
of division.
Besides, the act of 1802 obviously contemplates a suit in
court, iii which plaintiff and defendant have both appeared,
for it directs the point to be certified at the request of either
party. But here there is no party but the one in whose behalf
the motion'is made. No defendant is named, and no process
prayed for. And if, in this stage of the case, the legality of

DECEMBER TEIiM, 1860.
Union Stea.rlTp Co. v..IV. Y. and Va. Sleamship Co.

this proceeding can be certified to this court for its opinion,
the same thing may be done at the commencement of any
other equity proceeding, and this court called on to decide in
advance, before any process is issued or any party brought into
court, whether a motion, or an original bill, or any other of
the many description of bills known in equity practice, was
the proper and appropriate remedy"in the case which a party
was about to bring before the Circuit Court. No one will
suppose that such a practice was intended to be established by
the act of 1802.
The court order and adjudg that this opinion be certified

to the Circuit Court, and that the cause be. remanded.

THE UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF PHILADELPHIA, CLAIMANTS
AND OWNERS OF THE STEAMSHIP PENNSYLVANIA, HER TACKLE,
&c., APPELLANTS, V. THE NEW YORK AND VIRGINIA STEAMSHIP

COMPANY.
In a collision which took place in Elizabeth riyer, in 1855, between the steamship Pennsylvania and the steamship Jamestown, the Pennsylvania was in
fault, and the collision cannot be imputed to inevitable accident.
Inevitable accident must be understood to mean a collision which occurs when
both parties have endeavored, by every means in their power, with due care
and caution and a proper display of nautical skill, to prevent the occurrence
of the accident.
If the night was very dark, it was negligence in the master of the Pennsylvania
to remain in the saloon until just before the collision occurred; and if the
night was not unusually dark, there was gross negligence in those who had
the management of the deck.
The helm of the Pennsylvania was put to starboard when it ought not to have
been, and the supposition that she was backing is shown not to have been
correct by the force with which she struck the other vessel, which had taken
every precaution to avoid the danger.

THIS was an appeal from tle "Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of-Virginia, sitting in admiralty.
It was a case of collision which occurred between the steam;'hip Jamestown and the steamship Pennsylvania, the libel

