DECEMBER TEIM, 1860.
Almy v. State of California.

JOHN C. ALmy, JUN., PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE PEOPLE OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
A stamp duty imposed by the Legislature of California upon bills of lading for
gold or silver, transported from that State to any port or place out of the
State, is a tax on exports, and the law of the State unconstitutional and void.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Court
of Sessions for thf city and county of San Francisco, in the
State of California.
It was a constitutional question entirely, and is stated in
the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Blair for the plaintiff in error, and
submitted on a printed argument by Mr. Benjamin for the
defendants.
MrP. Blairplaced his opposition to the law upon two grounds,
viz: 1st, that it imposed a tax upon commerce; 2d, that it
amounted to a tax upon exports. As the opinion of the
court notices only the latter point, the arguments of the counsel on both sides will be confined to that point. Hr-. Blair

said:
The law in question is also in violation of the provisions 6f
the Constitution prohibiting the States from taxing exports;
and the reasoning of the court in Brown's case is equally applicable to this branch of the case.
The payment required for the license to enable an importer
to sell his imports was declared to be a ta on such imports;
the court saying that it was "varying the form without varying the substance," and "treating a prohibition which is general as if it we.re confined to a particular mode of doing the
forbidden thing."
There is even less room for controvery here, as to the application of the prohibition, than in that case. Every export
is taxed by an impost on the paper which represents it, and
which is indispensable.

SUPREME COURT.
Almy v. State of Ca-foia.

Upon this point Mr. Benjamin's argument was as follows:
II. Is a stamp tax on a bill of lading a duty on exports?
It is said to be an indirect tax on exports, because the jury
have found "that it is the usual and invariable custom to
make and issue such bills of lading," &c., and "no vessel or
steamer could practically fill
up with, or obtain freight" unless
the master executes one.
It is submitted that the argument proves quite too much,
and if once admitted, would inaugurate a most dangerous system of construction, under which all right of taxation might
be taken away from a State, thus leaving it shorn of powers
which were never intended to be abaiidoned, and which are
absolutely indispensable to its existence.
Drays and carts are necessary for loading merchandise on
board of ships. "It is the usual and invariable custom to
employ them." "No vessel could practically fill up without
them." Cannot a State tax drays and carts?
In Mobile harbor, and many others, large vessels cannot
load at all without the aid of lighters. Is the State of Alabama without power to tax lighters?
This law taxes policies of insurance, as well as bills of
lading. Scarcely an argument will apply to one class of these
papers that will not apply to the other. If everything that
operates indirectly to enhance the cost of conveying merchandise is a duty on exports, what State tax could not, by ingeniousconstruction, be demonstrated to have that effect?
Nearly all the States tax foreign insurance agencies established within their borders; to pay their tax, rates of premium
must be enhanced. Therefore, the ship-owner who pays this
enhanced premium must charge a higher freight to the exporter, and it might hence be argued that the tax was unconstitutional. All such lines of argument. are fanciful, dangerous, and subversive of the true meaning of the Constitution.
No man is by the law in question forbidden to ship his golddust. He may accompany it. He may send an agent to take
care of it; he may make a valid parol contract for its delivery
abroad, and take twenty witnesses, in order to retain the evidence of his contract; but, if be wishes to reduce it to writing

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

171

Almy v. State of Calfornia.

within the State, he must put his writing on a paper on which
the State of California has levied a stamp tax.
It is worthy of notice, that in the draft of the Constitution
offered in Convention by Mr. Patterson,- of New Jers'ey, there
was an express authority in Congress to raise revenue "by
stamps on paper, vellum, or parchment."
1 Elliott's Debates, 175.
Yet, notwithstanding the fact that the attention of the Con
vention was thus specially directed to this precise tax, no at
tempt was made to inhibit its exercise by the States.
Suppose a State should, as a source of revenue, establish in
it own favor a monopoly of the retail traffic within the State
in paper, vellum, and parchment, just as some foi'eign nations
do with tobacco; it is obvious that it might thus fix on paper
a price far exceeding its value in open market, arfd fully equal
to a stamp tax, and thereby enhance the cost of all written
contracts, including bills of lading, invoices, and marine policies ; but in what just sense could this be called either a regulation of -commerce between the States or a duty on exports?
the great cause of the present alarming crisis in public
affairs is the disposition to which men are so prone of construing the Constitution, instead of reading it; of trenching on
the rights of States by interpretation, instead of respecting as
sacred all such as are not plainly and expressly prohibited.
Now, this power of taxation by a State is that which was
most jealously watched, and apprehensions in relation to a
check on its exercise formed the chief objection urged against
the adoption of the Canstitution. The history of all the State
Conventions shows this.
The precise point in this case seems to be covered by.the
very language of the Chief Justice in the passenger cases.
Speaking of the State, he says: .
"They are -expressly prohibited from laying any duties on
imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary
for executing their inspection laws. So far their taxing power
over' commerce is restrained, but no farther. They retain all
the rest; and if money demanded is a tax upon commerce, or
the instrument or vehicle o' conmniarce, it furnishes no objec.

SUPREME COURT.
Almy v. State of California.

tion to it, unless it is a duty on imports, [or exports,] or a ton.
nage duty, for these alone are forbidden."
7 Howard, 480.
The argument on this whole subject, however, has been so
completely exhausted in the various adjudications of this court,
with which its members are thoroughly familiar, that nothing
more could be required than the simple reference to them
already made; and on them the State of California rests her

case.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question in this case is upoif the constitutionality
of a law of California, imposing a stamp tax upon bills of lading.
By an act passed by the Legislature of that State to provide
a revenue for the support of the Government from a stamp
tax on certain instruments of writing, among other-instruments
mentioned in the law, a stamp tax was imposed on bills of lading for the transportation from any point or place in that
State, to any point or place without the State, of gold or silver
coin, in whole or in part, gold-dust, or gold or silver in bars or
other form; and the law requires that there shall be attached
to the bill of lading, or stamped thereon, a stamp or stamps,
expressing in value the amount of such tax or duty.
By a previous law upon the same subject it was made a
misdemeanor, punishable by fine, to use any paper without a
stamp, where the law required stamped paper to be used.
After the passage of these acts, Alny, the plaintiff in error,
being the master of the ship Ratler, then lying in the port of
San Francisco, and bound to New York, received a quantity
of gold-dust for transportation to New York, for which he
signed a bill of ladiug upon unstamped paper, and without
having any stamp attached to it. For this disobedience to
the law of Califbrnia he was indicted in the Court of Sessions
for a misdemeanor, and at the trisl the jury found a special
verdict setting out particularly the facts, of which the above
is a brief sunmmary; and upon the return of the verdict the
counsel for the defendant moved for a judgment of acquittal,

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

173

Al1my -. Stc~t of California.

upon the ground that the law of Californid was repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States. But the court decided
that the State law was not repugnant to the Constitution of.
the United States, and adjudged that Almy should pay a fine.
of $100 for this offeAce. And the Court of Sessions being the
highest court of the State which had jurisdiction of the matter
in controversy, this writ of error is brought to revise that judgment.
We think 'this case cannot be distinguished from that of
Brown v. the State of Maryland, reported in 12 Wheat., 419.
That case was decided in 1827, and the decision has always
been regarded and followed as the true construction of the
clause of the Constitution now in question.
The case was this: The State of Maryland, in order to raise
a revenue for State purposes, among other thingg required all
importers of certain foreign articles and commodities enumerated in the law, or other persons selling the same by wholesale, before they were authorized to sell, to take out a license,
for which -they should pay $50; and in case of refusal or neglect, should forfeit the amount of the license Thx,-aud pay a
fine of $100, to be recovered by indictment.
Brown, who was an importing merchant, residing in Baltimore, refused to pay the tax, and was thereupon indicted iu
the State court, which sustained the validity of the State law,
and imposed the penalty therein prescribed. This judgment
was removed to this court by writ of error, and it will be seen
by the report of the case that it was elaborately argued on
both sides, and. the opinion of the court, delivered by Chief
Justice Marshall, shows that it was carefully and fully considered by the court. And the court decided that this State law
was a tax on imports, and that the mode of imposing it, by
giving it the form of a tax on the occupation of importer,
merely varied the form in which the tax was imposed, without
varying the substance.
So in the case before us. If the tax was laid on the gold or
silver exported, every one would see that it was repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States, which in express terms
declares that "no State shall, without the consent of Congress,

'SUPREME COURT.
AZmy v. State of California.

lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports, except what
'may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws."
But a tax or duty on a bill of lading, although differing in
form from a duty on the article shipped, is in substance the
same thing; for a bill of lading, or some written instrument
of the same import, is necessarily always associated with every
shipment of articles of commerce from the ports of one country to those of another. The necessities of commerce require
it. And it is hardly less necessary to the existence of such
commerce than casks to cover tobacco, or bagging to cover
cotton, when such articles are exported to a foreign country;
for no one would put his property in tho hands of a ship-master without taking written evidence of its receipt on board the
vessel, and the purposes for which it was placed in his hands.
The merchant could not send an agent with every vessel, to
inform the consignee of the cargo what articles he had shipped,
and prove the contract of the master if he failed to deliver
them in safety. A bill of lading, therefore, or some equivalent instrument of writing, is invariably associated with every
cargo of merchandise'expdrted to a foreign country, and consequently a duty upon that is, in substance and effect, a duty
on 'the article exported. And if the law of Califorilia is constitutional, then every cargo of every description exported
from the United States may be made to pay an export duty to
the State,-provided the tax is imposed in the form of a tax oi
the bill of lading, and this in direct opposition to thd plain
and express prohibition in the Constitution of the United
States.
In the case now before the court, the intention to tax the export of gold and silver, in the form of a tax on the bill of lading, is too plain to be mistaken. The duty is imposed only
upon bills of lading of gold and silver; and not upon articles
of any other description.. And we think it is impossible to
assign a reason for imposing the duty upon the one and not
upon the other, unless it was intended to lay a tax oh the gold
and silver exported, while all other articles were exempted
from the charge. If it was intended merely as a stamp duty
on a particular description of paper, the bill of lading of any

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

175

lfee1han et al. v. Forsyth.

other cargo is in the same form, and executed in the same
manner and for the same purposes, as one for gold and silver,
and so far as the instrumeift of writing was concerned- there
could hardly be a reason for taxing one and not the other.
In the judgment of this court the State tax in question is a
duty upon the export of gold and silver, and consequqntly repugnant to the clause in the Constitution hereinbefore referred to; and the judgment of the Court of Sessions must
therefore he reversed.
THOMAS MEEHAN AND CHARLES BALLANcE,
ERROR, V. ROBERTFORSYTH.

PLAnTiFFs Im

By the act of March 3d, 1823, entitled "An act to confirm certain claims to lots
in the village of Peoria, in the State of Illinois," the surveyor of public lands
was directed to survey the lots. A certified copy of such survey is admissible
in evidence. The survey in question was made in 1840.
Before the survey was made, BaUance made an entry of the quarter section, of
which the lot in controversy makes a part, and a patent was issued to him, by
wlch the United States granted it to him and his heirs, subject to the rights
of any and all persons claiming under the act of Congress above mentioned.
Tlus saviug clause was designed to exonerate the United States from any claim
of the patentee in thc event of his ouster by persons claiming under the acts
of Congress, and cannot be construed as separating any lots or parcels of land
from the operation of the grant, or as affording another confirmation of titles
existing under the acts of Congress described in it.
The possession of Ballance under this patent was adverse to that of a claimant
under the Peoria grant and therefore the statute of limitations ran upon it,
he having had possession for more than seven years, with a connected title in
law or equity, deducible of record from the State or the United States.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the northern district of Illinois.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr Ballance for the plaintiffs in error, and
by Mr Williams for the defendant.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court
This isan action of ejectment con.mmenced in the Circuit

