SUPREME COURT.
AtcEwea etal. v. Den, Lessee.

final, and not because they were legal parties to the original
contract on which the litigation is founded. In such a case
the pleadings may show the contract or subject-matter of the
litigation to be the very same, and directly in issue; in the
other, it could not be well so. As we are of opinion that there
was no error in this instruction, it will not be necessary to
*notice the other points alluded to in the argument, this one
being conclusive of the whole case.
Thejudgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with
costs.

WILLIAM S. MoEWEN AND HENRY H. WILEY, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, V. JOHN DEN, LESSEE OF CHARLES BULKLEY AND

STUART BROWN.
By the laws of Tennessee anterior to 1856, a deed for lands lying in Tennessee
could not be acknowledged or proven in another State before the clerk of a
court.
In 1856, a law was passed allowing this to be done. This statute was prospective.
The circumstance that the law of 1856 was called an amendment of the prior
law does not change this view of the subject.
Where a deed was acknowledged in 1839, before the clerk of a Co'rt in another State, a copy of it froifi the record was improperly allowed to 6:p read in
evidence to the jury.
Where the defendant claimed under the statute of limitations and showed possession of Evans's coal bank; the validity of this plea will depend upon the fact
whether or not Evans's coal bank is within the lines of the plaintiff's patent.
The case remanded to the Circuit Court for the purpose of ascertaining this
by a corrected survey made according to the rules laid down by this court.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States 'for the eastern district of Tennessee.
It was an ejectment brought under the circumstances stated
in the opinion of the court, and was argued by Mr. Maynard
and Mr. HMiskell for the plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Nelson for
the defendants.

DECEM BDEt- TERM, 1960.

243

tcEwen et al. v.-Den, Lessee.

The principal question in the case was, whether'the possession of the defendants below was upon the tract of land claimed
by the plaintiffs, so as to constitute a bar to the action through
the statute of limitations. Maps were produced in court, but
so many tracts of land were laid down upon them, that it was
difficult to decide the point. The arguments of counsel bear
ng upon it could not possibly be understood by the reader.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Bulkley sued MeEwen and Wiley, in an action of eject ment,
for 5,000 acres of land. At the trial, the plaintiff introduced
a patent issued to Thomas B. Eastland, dated December 21st,
1838, No. 22,261. The plaintiff next offered to read the copy
of a deed from Eastland to Bulkley for the tract granted, (with
other lands;) to the reading of which objection was made, but
the court admitted the copy to be read; to the admission of
which the defendants excepted.
By the laws of Tennessee, the fee in land does not pass unless the conveyance is proved, or duly acknowledged and registered. This deed purports to have been acknowledged by
the grantor, Eastland, before the clerk of the court of common.
pleas for the city and county of New York, and is certified
under his seal of office. And this was accompanied by a certificate of.the judge of said court, that Joseph iloxie, before
whom -the deed was acknowledged, was clerk, and that the
court of which he was clerk was a court of record. On this
evidence of its execution, the deed was registered in the-county
where the land lies; but at what time it was registered does
not appear. The acknowledgment was taken October 25th,
1839. At that time, a deed for lands lying in Tennessee could
not be acknowledged or proven in another State before the
clerk of a court.
In 1856, an act was passed, (ch. 115,) which it is insisted validates this probate. It provides, that deeds proved or acknowledged before the clerk of any court of record in any of the
States of this Union, and certified by the clerk under his seal
of office, and the chief magistrate of the court shall cortity to
the official .character of the clerk, the probate or acknowledg.

244

4 SUPREME COURT.
3lcEwen e al. v. Den, Lesee.

ment shall be valid. And the second section declares, that
all deeds 'proved or acknowledged, and certified in manner
aforesaid, may be registered in this State, and shall be good to'
pass title, &c..
It is insisted, that the act is .retrospective as well as prospective in its operation, and covers the acknowledgment made in
1889, in New York.
We think the statute of 1856 is prospective, and that to bold
otherwise would be a strained construction, and violate a general rtile of jurisprudence, to wit, that it is of the very essence
6. a new law that it shall apply to future cases, and such must
bf its construction, unless the contrary clearly appears.
it is next insisted that the act of 1856, being an amendment
of the act of 1839, carries with it the provisions of this law.
The act of 1856 declares, that the act of 1839 "be so amended"
that all deeds, powers of attorney, &c., proved or acknowledged before a foreign clerk, may be registered, and have full
effect.. An additional mode of probate is provided; nor does
the act go any further.
'The deed offered in evidence was recorded without legal
-proof of its execution; and,' therefore, a copy of the record
could not be evidence. The court erred in admitting the copy
to go to the jury.
The plaintiff below describql the land sued for in his declaration, vhich is required to be done by the laws of Tennessee.
The declaration calls'for the boundaries of grant No. 22,261,
made to Thomas B. Eastland, December 21st, 1838. The defendants then gave in evidence two other grants, for 5,000
acres each; one to Thomas B. Eastland, No. 22,267, being
one of the tracts contained in the deed from Eastland to Bulkley; and another to Henry H. Wiley, one of the defendants,
No. 26,086. The two junior patents covered the principal
possession of the defendants, at a -place known as Evans's
coal bank. This fact was admitteI; and it furthermore appeared, that the defendants had held seiren years' adverse possession at the coal bank, inder Wiley's grant. And it was insisted below, and is again-here,.that as Bulkley had shown himself to be the owner of both the tracts gi'ante'd, and as the op-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

245

BeEwen et al. v. Den, Lessee.

eration of the act of limitations drew to Wiley's younger pat.
ent the, title of Eastland's junior grant, and vested this title in
tle defendants, they-were p?otedted by the statute, 'because
Bulkley had the right to 'sue at all times during the seven
years, by virtue of grant No. 22,267. But the court instructed
the jury to the reverse of this assumption, and, we think, correctly. From the facts stated, it is true that the right of actibn
founded on the younger grant to Eastland was barred, to the
extent that Wiley's grant interfered with No. 22,267; and assuming it to be true, that the defendants could avail themselves in defence, or affirmatively, of'this title, still it could
avail them nothing, as both No. 22,267 and No. 26,086 were
inferior to grant No. 22,261.
The main question in the cause turns on the fact, whether
the possession at Evans's coal bank was within the boundary
of the grant No. 22,261, described in the declaration, and alone
relied on at the trial by the plaintiff. It calls to begin on the
south bank of Coal creek, four poles below Bowling's mill;
thence running south with the foot of Walden's ridge, 894
poles, to a stake at letter H, in Henderson & Co.'s Clinch river
survey; then west, crossing Walden's ridge, 894 poles to a
stake; thence north 894 poles to a stake; then a direct line to
the beginning.
It was proved at the trial, and is admitted here, that no line
was originally run and marked' but the first one; and that at
II there is a marked poplar corner tree, which is a line mark of
the grant. It being admitted that the first line is established,
and that it is regarded as a north and south line, and that the
other lines of.the tract were not run or marked, it follows they
must be ascertained by course and measurement. How they
are to run is matter of law; and on this assumption, the Circuit Court instructed the jury as follows: "To identify the
land appropriated, the jury must look to the calls, locative and
directory, the foot of the mountain, the creek, the coal bank:,
the marked trees, courses and distance, number of acres' demanded and paid for, &c.;. and they will look to the survey,
full or partial; that assuming the correct mode of survey to
have been by horizontal measurement, and that, the surveyor

SUPREME COURT.
HeEwen et al. v. Des, Lessee.

based his identification of the land entered on surface measure,
in accordance with his custom End the custom of the mountain range of country in which he resided, this would not of
itself defeat the location of the land, and the boundaries of the
grant as indicated by the survey, calls, and other evidence, to.
all of .which they would look in adjusting the boundaries of

the plaintiff's grant." To this charge, exception was taken.
We think the instructions given were too vague and general
to afford the jury any material aid in ascertaining the true
boundaries of the land granted. The first line calls for two
corners admitted to exist; this line must govern the three
others. 1 Meigs's Digest, 154. It falls short of the distance
called for, being only about 800 poles long. Its course being
found, the next line running west must be run at right angles
to the first one. In ascertaining the southwest corner of the
tract at 894 poles from the poplar corner, the mode of measuring will be to level the chain, as is usual with chain-carriers
when measuring up and down mountain sides, or over other
steep acclivities or depressions, so as to approximate, to a reasonable extent, horizontal measurement, this being the general
practice of surveying wild lands in Tennessee. The reasonable certainty of distance, and' approximation to a horizontal
line, i's matter of fact for the jury to determine.
The 3d line running north, from the ascertained western
termination of the second, must run parallel with the first line,
.and be continued to the distance of 894 poles; the chain be
ingelevelled as above stated. The 4th line will be run from
the northern terminus of the 3d line to the beginning near
Bowling's Mill.
The- sur'veyor who made the survey on which grant No.
22,261 is founded, deposed at the trial, "that no adtual survey
was made in 1838 of said land, except the first line from A to
H. That the other three lines of the grant were not run, but
merely platted. That the proper mode of making surveys was
by horizontal measurement, but that he had not been in the
habit of making them in that way; that in making the line
from A to H, in this survey, lie had measured the surface;
that the custom of the country was to adopt surface measure;

DECEMBER TERM, 186U.

247

Poww7wtan Steamboat,Co. v. A ppomattox Railroad Co.

and that he had made the survey in accordance with'such cus
torn."

The grantee was bound to abide by the marked line from
to 1; but the other lines'must be governed by a legal rule,
which a local custom cannot change. Should this custom be
recognised as law, governing surveys, it must prevail in private surveys, in cases of sales of land, when the purchaser who
bought a certain number of acres might, by surface meagure
across a mountain, lose a large portion of the land he had .pai&
for. And such would- be the case with this, grantee, were he
restricted to surface measure; whereas, by the terms of his
patent, the Government granted to the extent of lines approximating to horizontal measurement. How far the 'act of 'limitations will affect the plaintiff's title, will depend on'ithe fadt
whether Evans's coal bank falls within the boundary of the
patent sued on, as it is not claimed that, the other possession
at a different place on grant No. 22,261, and for which trespass the recovery was had, was seven years old when the suit
was brought.
It is ordered that the judgment below be reversed, and the
cause remanded for anothwer trial to be had therein.
.

THE POWHATAN STEAMBOAT COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROU,,V.
THE APPOMATTOX RAILROAD COMPANY.
In the code of Virginia, chapter 196, are the following sections, viz:
"SEc. 15. Ifra free person, on a Sabbath day, be found laboring at any trade or
calling, or employ his apprentices, servants, or slaves, in laboor other business, except in household or other work of necessity or charity, he shall forfeit
$10 for each offence; every day any servaiit, Apprentice, or slave, is so employed, constituting a distinct offence.
SEc. 17. No forfeiture shall be incurred under the preceding section for the
transportation on Sunday of the mail, or of passengers and their baggage.
And the said forfeiture shall not be incurred by any person who conscientiously believes that the seventh day of the week ought to be observed as a
sabbath, and actually refrains from allsecular business andtlabor on thatdhy;
;rovided. he does not compel a slave, apprentice, or. servant not of his belief,

