SUPREME COURT.
Ckimen& v. Warner.

ding; and we do not see why the lien may not attach, when
the cargo is delivered to the master for shipment b6fore it
reaches the hold of the vessel, as consistently and with as much
reason as the continuance of it after separation from the vessel, and placed upon the wharf, or within the warehouse. In
both instances the cargo is in the custody of the master, and
in the act of conveyance in the execution of the contract of
affreightment. We must look to the substance and good sense
of the transaction; to the contract, as understood and intended
by the parties, and as explained by its terms, and the attending circumstances out of which it arose, and to the grounds
and reasons of tha rules of law upon the application of which
their duties and obligations are to be ascertained, in order to
determine the scope and extent of them; and, in this view, we
think no well-founded distinction can be made, as to the liability of the owner and vessel, between the case of the delivery
of the goods into the hands of the master at the wharf, for
transportation on board of a particular ship, in pursuance of
the contract of affreightment, and the case as made, after the
lading of the goods upon the deck of the vessel; the one a
constructive, the other an actual possession ; the former, the
same as if the goods had been carried to the vessel by her
boats, instead of the vessel going herself to the wharf.
The decree of the court below affirmed.

JoHN D. CLEMENTS, APPELLANT, V. JONATHAN R. WARNER.
Ia 1850, Congress granted to the State of Illinois every alternate section of land
for six sections in width on each side of a proposed railroad, and until the
StatS could make its selection, the land on either side of the track of the road
was withdrawn from entry or sale.
In 1852, the selections wete made, and the land not selected was offered for
sale, and such as were not sold became subject to private entry.
In October, 1855, Clements began a settlement upon a portion of one of these
sections.
In November, 1855, Warner purchased the same land at private sale at the land
office.
[a November, 1856, Clements claimed a pre-emption right, and the register 5nd
receiver granted a certificate of purchase accordingly.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

895

Glements v. Tarer.
This court holds that the land in question was subject to a pre-emption right, in
November, 1855, when Warner made his purchase. Consequently it is invalid, as against the pre-emption right of Clemdnt.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the Uniteu
States for the southern district of Illinois.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Ives for the
appellant, and Mr.1B. . Williams for the appellee:
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee filed this bill in chancery in the Circuit Court
to quiet his title to a portion of section thirty-three, in township seventeen north, of range eight east, of th third principal meridian, in the county of Champaigne, Illinois. By the
act of Congfess of the 20th September, 1850, for granting the
right of way and making a grant of land to the States of fllinois, Mississippi, and Alabama, in aid of the construction bf a
railroad from Chicago to Mobile, (9 Statutes at Large, 466,)
there was granted to the State of Illinois, for the purpose of
making the railroad described in .the title of the act, every
alternate section of land designated by even numbers, for six
'sections in width on each side of the road; and in case any of
these sections had been sold, or were subject to a pre-emption
claim, then the State was authorized to select from the lands
of the United.States, contiguous to the tier of sections before
mentioned, so much land in sections and parts of sections as
should make up the full complement of land included in the
concessions in the act. The act further provided, that the
sections and parts of sections of lands which, by the grant,
might remain to the United States within six miles on each
side of the road, should not be sold for less than double the
minimum price of the public lands, when sold. To comply
with the requirements of this act, the Commi~sioner of the
Gefieral Land Office withdrew from entry or sale the land on
either side of the track of the road, until the State offIllinois
could make theselections that were authiorized-by it. These

SUPREME COURT.
Clements v. Warner.

were completed in 1852, and during that year the President
of the United States by a proclamation directed the sale of
those sections and parts of sections along the line of the road
that had remained to the United States, after the satisfaction
of the grant to Illinois. Such of the sections as were not sold
became subject to private entry. The section of land described
in the plaintiff's bill, a portion of which forms the subject of,
this suit, was one of these, and was purchased at private sale
at the land office, in N'ovember, 1855, by a person under whom
the plaintiff derives his claim, and who has the usual receipt
given by the receive" of the land office.
The conflicting claim against which ihe appellee seeks relief originates in an entry by the appellant in November,
1856, as having a pre-emption right under a settlement began
in October, 1855, before the date of the entry on which the
title of the appellee is founded. A patent issued to the appellant as having the superior claim. The object of the bill is to
reverse the decision of the officers of the land office, and to
obtain a relinquishment of the legal title evinced by this
patent, and the only question presented is, whether the landwas the subject of a pre-emption right in November, 1855.
The 10th section of the act of the 4th September, 1841, confers upon the beneficiaries of that act, "who shall make a
settlement in person on the public lands to which the Indian
title has been extinguished, and which shall have been surveyed prior thereto, and who shall improve and inhabit the
same, as specified in the act, a right of pre-emption to one
quarter section of land." Among the exceptions in the act to
the exercise of this right of pre-emption, is one that includes
"sect ions of lands reserved to the United States, alternate to
other sections granted to any of the States for the construction
of any canal, railroad, or other public improvement."- 5 Statutes at Large, 466.
Subsequent acts of Congress extend the pre-emption privilege to lands not surveyed at the time of the settlement, and
confer privileges upon settlers on school lauds, and on lands
reserved for private claims. 5 Statutes at Large, 620, see
tions 3, 9.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
CkUe ent v. Warner.

In 1853, the pre-emption laws, as. they now exist, were
extended to the reserved sections of public lands. along the
lines of all the railroads, wherever publio lands have been
granted by acts of Congress, in cases where the settlement and
improvemaents had 'been made prior to the final allotment of
the alternate sections to such railroads by the General Land
Office. 10 Statutes at Large, 244.
In the administration of these laws, the Executive Department of the Government has decided, that after the restoration to market of the lands embraced in the exception we
have quoted from the act of 1841, and when they have become
subject to entry at private sale, they lose their character as
reserved lands, and will then be subject to the privileges of
pre-emption in favor of settlers. The policy of the Federal
Government in favor of settlers upon public lafids has been
liberal. It recognises their superior equity to become the
purchasers, of a limited extent of land, comprehending their
improvements, over that of any other person.
By the act of 1841, the pre-emption privilege in favor of
actual settlers was extended over all the public lands of the
United States that were fitted for agricultural purposes and
prepared for market. Later statutes enlarged the privilege,
so as to embrace lands not subject to sale or entry, and clearly
evince that the actual settler is the most favored of the entire
class of purchasers. No act of Congress has defined the meaning of the term reserve, as applied to lands in these various
acts, nor determined explicitly when these alternate sections
lose their character as reserves. But all other public lands
fitted for agricultural purposes, after they have been offered at
public sale, are affected by the privilege of the actual settler
to have the preference of entry. No reason of public policy exists to exclude this class of public lands from the operation of
the same law, under the same conditions. No violence is
done to the language of the act by limiting the exception to
the temporary withdrawal of the lands from the market, and
the liberal policy of Congress in favor of the actual settler is
better accomplished by a restrictive rather than extensive in-

SUPlREME COURT.,
Lessee of Smith et al. v. Afcann.

teipretation of the exceptiofial clause in the act. We therefore sanction the construction adopted in the land office.
The Circuit Court overruled the demurrer of the defendant
to the bill, and made a decree in conformity to the prayer of
the bill. This is error. The decree of the Circuit Court is
reversed, and the cause is remanded to the Circuit Court, with
directions to dismiss the bill, with costs.

LESSEE OF ROBERT W. SMITH AND CAREY.W. BUTT, PLAINTIFF9

IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM MCNN,
In Maryland, the distinction between common law and equity, as known to the
English law, has been constantly preserved in its system of jurisprudence.
The statute of George the Second which made lands in the American colonies
liabld to be sold under . .fieri facias issued upon a judgment in a court of
common law, did not interfere with this distinction, and under it a legal estate
only and not an equitable interest could be seized under afi.fa.
In 1810, an act of Assembly was passed making equitable interests subject to
this process.
But the purchaser at the sale of an equitable interest under this process only
buys the interest which the debtor had, and thus becomes the owner of an
equitable and not a legal estate.
It is not, however, every legal interest that is made liable to sale on afi.Jh. The
debtor must have a beneficial interest in the property, and not a barren legal
title held in trust.
In the action of ejectment, in Maryland, the lessor of the plaintiff must show a
legal title in himself to the land which he claims, and the right of possession
inder it, at the time of the demis6 laid in the declaration and at the time of
the trial. He cannot support the action upon .an equitable title, however
clear and indisputable it may be, but must seek his remedy in chancery.
Where there was a deed of land to a debtor in trust which conveyed to him a
naked legal title, he took under it no interest that could be seized and sold by
the marshal upon aft.fa.; and thepurchaser at such sale could not maintain
an action of ejectment under the marshal's deed.
But the plaintiff in the ejectment suit offered evidence to prove that the trusts
in, the deed were fraudulent, and that the debtor purchased the land and procured the deed in this form in order to hinder and defraud his creditors. And
this proof was offered to show that the debtor had a beneficial interest in the
property, liable to be seized and sold for the payment of his debts

