SUPREME COURT.
Greer et al. v. Nezes et al.

being a citizen of, and resident in, the United States. His
brother, also a citizen of the United States, succeeded to his
estate, and in the year 1887 conveyed his interest to a person
under whom the plaintiff claims.
Three questions were made upon the trial in' reference to
the validity of the plaintiff's title: 1st. Whether the State of
Coahuila and Texas, .in the year 1829, or in the year 1884,
could sell and convey land to a colonist within the littoral or
coast leagues, without the consent or approbation of the Central Government of Mexico. 2d. W'hether the paper executed
by Hlewetson to Power and Walker was a conveyance of the
land, or merely an agreement to convey. 3d. Whether in
1836, Walker, a citizen of the United States, could inherit
land in Texas, from one who was also a citizen of, and a resident in, the United States. The decision of either of these
questions in favor of the defendants is fatal to the plaintiff's
right to recover.
The first of these questions has been determined by this
court in the case of League v. Egery and others in the negative. This decision is in accordance with the decision of the
District Court. whose judgment is consequently affirmed.

JOHN GREER AND OTHERS, PLAINrTIFS IN ERROR; V. S. M.
MEZES, MARIA DE LA SOLIDAD ORTEGA

DE ARGUELLO, AxD

JOSE RAMON ARGUELLO.
Where the plaintiffs in ejectment showed a legal title to land in California under
a patent from the United States and A survey under their authority, it was
proper in the court below to refuse to admit testimony offered by the defend.
ants to show that the survey was incorrect, the defendants claiming under a
merely equitable title:
Where the defendants pleaded severally the general issue, it was proper for the
court below to instruct the jury to bring in a general verdict against all those
who had not shown that they were-in possessi6n of separate parcels.
The mode of proceeding by petition does not alter the lawtrof ejctsnent under
the old system of pleading.

Tuns case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Greer et al. v. Aezes et al.

-

Court of the United States for the northern district of California.
It was an action of ejectment brought, by way of petition,
by the defendants in. error against Greer and twenty-nine other
persons. The plaintiffs below represented the interests of
Arguello, whose title was confirmed by this court in 18 Howard, 589, to that portion of the land described in the petition,
bounded as follows, viz: on the south by the Arrogo or creek
of San Francisquito, on the north by the creel San Mateo, on
the east by the estuary or waters of the bay of San Francisco,
and on the west by the eastern .borders of the valley known as
Canada de Raymundo, said landl being of the extent of four
leagues in length and one in breadth, be the same more or
less.
A survey of this laud was made by John C. Hays; United
States surveyor general for California, who returned the field

notes with a map to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office on thp 19th of December, 1856. This survey and map
I
included 35,240 acres.
A patent was issued on the 2d of October, 1857, which followed the field notes, and granted .the land as follows.:
To Maria de la Solidad Ortega'de Arguello, one equal undivided half.
To Jose Ramon Arguello, one equal undivided fourth part.
To Luis Antonio Arguello, .one equal undivided tenth part
To S. M. Mezes, three equal undivided twentieth parts
thereof; but with the stipulation that in virtue of the fifteenth
section of 3d March, 1851, the confirmation of this said claim
and this patent shall not affect the rights of third persons:
At July term, 1858, of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the districts of California, in and for the northern district,
this ejectmentwas brought, at first in the name of Mezes alone,
the bill having been filed on March 16, 1858.

Pleas were put

in to the jurisdiction i.lon the ground that Mezes was not an
a' ien nor a subject of the- Queen of Spain, as he had alleged.
Afterwards, in October, 1858, .an, amended bill was filed, making parties of those persons who are named as defendants in

SUPREME COURT.
Greer et al. v. Aezes et al.

error in the caption of this report, Luis Antonio Arguello
having conveyed his interest to Mezes.
In November, 1858, the cause came on for trial. The priticipal points in that court and in this arose upon the rulings
of the court upon the admission of evidence, under the following circumstances:
John Greer, the principal defendant, had married Maria
Louisa, the widow of John Coppinger, and in. behalf of his
wife and of Manuela Coppinger, an infant child of John, had
petitioned for the confirmation of a grant alleged to have been
made to John Coppinger by Alvarado on 3d of August, 1840,
containing twenty-seven square*miles of territory.
On 23d November, 1853, the hoard of commissioners decided
that the claim was valid, and decreed that it should be confirmed.
On the 8th of January, 1855, Mr. Cushing, Attorney Genera],
filed a notice that the United States would appeal to the District Court of the United States for the northern district of,
California.
On the 14th January, 1856, the district judge, Ogden Hoffman, decreed that said decision be and the same is hereby
affirmed. And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
that the claim of the appellees be confirmed to thetract of land
known as "Canada de Raymundo," being the same now occupied by the said appellees, and bounded and described as follows, viz: bordering to the west on the Sierra Morena, to the
east on the rancho de las Pulgas, to the south on the rancho
of Maximo Martinez, and to the north on the Great Lagune.
Reference for further description to be had to a rhap, which is
made a part of document marked "C, and filed in this case.
In November, 1856, in consequence of a notice by the Attorney General that no appeal to the Supreme Court of the
United States would be taken, Judge Hoffman decreed that
the claimants have leave to proceed under the decree of that
court heretofoi'e rendered in their favor as on final decree.
What other steps were taken by Greer, the record did not
show. *As his title stood at the time of the trial, it appeared
to be an equitable title only, the decision of the board of corn-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860

271

Greer et aL. v. Atezes et al.
missioners not passing the-legal title, and there having been
no subsequent survey and patent.
Upon the trial below, the plaintiffs made out their title by
the patent and map, and proved that some of the defendants
were residing upon the land:
The defendants then offered to prove that the grant to Coppinger, and the confirmation thereof, embraced all the land in
cdntroveray in this suit, and that all the defendants at the time
of the institution of .this suit were in. p 6 ssessiou of such portions of the premises as were occupied by them under the
grant to Coppinger, and deriving title therefrom.
The defendants further offered to prove that the survey and
patent given in evidence by the plaintiffs we'e erroneous in
rebpect to the location ^of the western line of the Las Pulgas
ranch, and that if said line was properly located, accordingto the grant to Luis Arguello's heirs, or according to the decree of the Supreme Court of the United States confirming
said claim, it would not .embrace any of the land occupied by
the defendants, or either of them.
The defendajlts further offered to prove that the western line
of the Las Pulgas ranch, as established by the patent and survey given in evidence by the -plaintiffs, does not stop at the.
eastern borders of the Cafiada de Raymundo, but embrace"s a
large portion of the level valley land of the said cafiada, occupied and held by the defendants, or some of them, under the
grant to Coppinger.
All of which.proof, both oral and documentary, was objected.
to by the plaintiffs, and ruled out by the court as incompetent,
to which ruling the defendants duly excepted at the time.
The statement of this case has occupied so much room that
but little space is left for the arguments of counsel in this
court.
It was argued by Mr. Blair, upon a brief filed by himself
and Mr. Crockett, for*the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Janin
for the defendants. Tbe points given below were amply illus.
trated, but there is not room to insert any more..

SUPREME COURT.
Greer et al.-v. Mezes et al.

Thd eounsel for the plaintiffs in error made, amongst others,
the following points:
1. The Coppinger grapt is by metes and bounds, and not by
quantity, and is without the usual provision as to the surplus.No survey was necessary to locate And segregate the land. A
grant or confirmhation of a specific parcel of land conveys the
title proprio vigore, without a survey.
Guitard v. Stoddard, 16 How., 494.
Bissell v. Penrose, 8 How., 317..._
Stanford v. Taylor, 18 How., 409.
United States v. Sutherland, 19 How., 863.
2. The grant to Coppinger conveyed the legal and not a
mere equitable- title. It purports to convey the property in
fee, and was issued by the Governor, who had the lawful authority to grant lands. On its face it is designated as a "patent," and purports to be final.and definitive. The fact that it
is lnade subject to the approvalof the Departmental Assembly
does not impair its effect as a valid legal. title. This created
only a defeasance, by which the title might be defeated, if the.
Departmental Assembly refused to ratify the grant; but until
such refusal, the legal title was in the grantee. Even this refusal did not impair the title, unless the supreme Government
ratified the action of the Assembly,
Ferris v. Coover, 10 California R., 589.
3. If the title was before only equitable, the final confirmation by metes and bounds has converted it into a complete
-legal title, conclusive as against the United States;, and after
such confirmatiQn there was no title, either legal or equitable,
in the United States, which it could convey by patent to a
third person. The United States was estopped by the confirmation to deny that the title was in the claimant, and being
thus estopped by the record, it could convey no title-to another.
Lafaette's Heirs v. Kenton, 18 How., 197.
Guitard v. Stoddard, 16 Hoiy., 494.
Stanford v. Taylor, 18 How., 409.
,Ledoux v. Black, 18 How., 47'S.
7-Roche v. Jones, 9 How., 155.
Grignon v. Astor, 2 How., 319.

DECEMBER TERM 1860.

278

Greer et al. v. fezes et a.

Chouteau v. Eckhart, 2 How., 844.
Strother v. Lucas, 12 Pet., 410.
Same, 3 Dallas, 456.
Harrold v. Bailey, 9 Missouri R., 323.
Mr. Janin, after stating the case, said:
Under these circumstances, it is clear that the defendants in
error have the legal title to the land in dispute, whereas the
plaintit in error have only an equitable claim, such as cannot
be offered in opposition to a legal title in an action of ejectment.
T. By the uniform legislation of Congress, the title passed
out of the Government only by the. patent. In respect to
California land claims, this is specially provided -for by the
8th section of the act of March 3,1851, entitled "An act to
ascertain and settle the private land claims in the State of
California." (9 Stat. at Large, 632.)
In Hooper v. Scheimer, 23 How., 249, the court say:" This
court held, in the case of Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Pet., 450,
that Congress had the sole power to declare the dignity and
effect of a patent issuing from the United States; that a patent
carries the fee, and is the best title known to a court of law.
Such is the settled doctrine of this court." .Until the issuance
of the patent the fee is in the Government, which passes by
the patent to the grantee, and he is entitled to recover the
possession in ejectment. 13 Pet., 450.
I. The title of, the plaintiffs in error is an equitable and
not a legal title. It was a grant by the Governor, subject to
the approbation of the Departmental Assembly, which it never
received. It was unaccompanied by judicial possession, and
never surveyed, so far as the record enables us to judge.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants in error are the owners of the tract of land
called Las Pulgas, the title to which was confirmed to the
heirs of Arguello -by this court, (18 How., 539.) This action
of ejectment was brought by them againgt Greer and a number of others, now plaintiffs in error. The defendants plea(d 1-'
voL. xxIv.

18

SUPREME COURT.
Greer et al. v. aews et al.

severally the general issue, but no one of them took defence
specially for any definite part of the land claimed in the writ,
or made a disclaimer as to any portion of it. The plaintiffs
gave in evidence the survey and patent of the Las Pulgas
tract, and proved-the defendants to be in possession within its
)oundaries. Their Mexican title was dated in 1835, and had
ihe approbation of the Departmeihtal Assembly, preceded and
followed by possessiQn.
Their grant, as confirmed by this court, is bounded on the
north by the arroyo of San Francisquito, on the south by that
of St. Mateo, on the east by the estuary, and on the west by
.the cafiada or valley of Raymundo, "bing four leagues in
length and one in breadth." The plaintiffs having shown a
complete legal title to the land in dispute, were entitled to a
verdict, unless the defendants could show a better.
They claimed under a grant to Juan Coppinger, dated in
1840, for the valley of Raymundo, specifying nothing as to
quantity, but describing it as bounded on the east by the
rancho of 'Las Pulgas, and on the west by the Sierra Morena,
south by rancho of Martinez, and north by the lagune. The
espediente provides, that "the judge who shall deliver possession of the land shall have it rneasured according to the ordinance, specifying the amount of sitios it contains."
This grant had never received the sanction of the Departmental Assembly, nor had possession ever been delivered, or
any precise boundaries ascertained by survey; and although
confirmed as a valid, equitable claim by the District Court of
California, it has never been surveyed, nor had a patent been
issued for it under the decree of confirmation. The claim of
defendants to the land is therefore not yet completed into a
legal title. Its boundaries and quantity still remain uncertain
and undefined. The Sierra Morena may be sufficiently definite as the boundary of a State or kingdom, or of a valley, but
is certainly a very vague and. uncertain line for a survey of
.and. The eastern boundary called al.o for thbrancho of Las
Pulgas; this was also uncertain till the western line of Las
Pulgas was correctly surveyed. Coppinger's grant, calling
9br land outside of the Pulgas grant, and to be bounded by

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

275

Greer d al. v. Mezes et al.

it, could have no possible interference or claim to land within
it. Hence, the defendants could resort to no other defence
than to offer proof that the survey and patent of Las Pulgas
were erroneous as regarded the location of the western line,
because it embraces a portion of the level land in the cafiada
or valley Raymundo, which is the call of its western boundary.
It is the refusal of the court to admit testimony for that
purpose which is now alleged as error.
The testimony offered might well have been rejected as
irrelevant, for it does not follow, that if the western line of
Las Pulgas, as run by the surveyor general, included level
land in the valley, that it was at all incorrect. -The 'western
boundary line of Las Pulgas, as adjudged by the decree of this
court, had two several points of description to fix its location;
one uncertain and vague, the other admitting of mathematical
certainty. The call of the Caliada Raymundo on thewest is as
vague as that for the Sierra Morena, a chain of mouintains. But
the breadth of one league from the estuary or bay was a certain
and definite boundary on the east, and showed conclusively
the precise location of the line. Las Pulgas 6ould clai~m to
extend but a league west, whether that reached to the hills on
the east of the valley or not, and was entitled to have the
league in breadth, whether it carried the western line over.the
hills or not. Coppinger's grant can claim only what is left
after satisfying Las Pulgas, which calls for a certain quantity
and a certain boundary. There was.no offer to prove that the
survey of Las Pulgas was extended beyond such limit.
The court below refused to admit the testimony, not for its
irrelevancy, but its incompetency; because the defendants,
claiming under a merely equitable title, having neither survey
nor patent, were not in a condition to dispute in a court of
law the correctness of the survey made by the public officer or
resist the plaintiff's perfect legal title.
The fact and the conclusion of the court from it are undoubtedly correct. It is well settled that both plaintiff and
defendant must produce a strictly legal title, whether it be in
fee or as lessee for years.

SUPREME COURT.
Greer et al. v. HMezes et al.

-

The plaintiff had shown a complete legal title; the defendant had not, for the'reasons already stated.
The act of 3d March, 1851, c. 41, section 13, makes it the
duty of the surveyor general to cause all private claims which
shall be confirmed to be surveyed, and "to decide between
the parties with regard to all such confirned claims as may
conflict or in any manner interfere." It is true this may not
preclude a legal investigation of the subject by the proper
judicial tribunal. In this case there can be no conflict of title
as between Las Pulgas and the later grant to Coppinger,
which calls for it as a boundary. The surveyais conclusive
evidence as to the precise location of.the western line of Pulgas, as between these parties in this suit. If Coppinger and
those claiming under him charge that this line has not been
properly established, either by mistake or fraud, they might
have had a remedy under the thirteenth section of the act, and
may possibly yet have it by filing a bill in chancery. But in
this action of ejectment, the defendants cannot call upon a jury
at their discretion to alter a boundary line which has been
legally established by the public-officer specially intrusted with
this duty.
'The only other exception is, to the following instruction of
the court as to the form of the verdict: "That they should
find a separate verdict against such of the defendants as were
proved to have been in possession, at the commencement of
the suit, of separate distinct parcels of the said land held in
severalty, and that the jury might find a general verdict against
all the other defendants who were proved or admitted to have
been, atthe commencement of the suit, in possession of some
portion or portions of tho premises in controversy, the limits
or boundaries of whose possbssions were not defined by the
proof; and this, whether such possessions and occupation were
joint or several."
W6 can perceive nojerror in this instruction. Although the
Circuit Court may have adopted the mode of instituting the
,ction of ejeetment by petition and summons, instead, of the
oid fiction of lease, entry,-and ouster, it is still 'governed by the
principles of pleading and practice 'Which have been estab-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

277

Greer et al. v. Mezes it al.

lisbed by courts of common law. "The hybrid -mixture of civil
and common-law pleadings and practice introduced by State
codes caunot be transplanted into the courts of the Uiited
States.
In the action of ejectment, a plaintiff will not be allowed to
join in one suit several and distinct parcels, tenements,, or
tracts of land, in possession of several defendants, each claiming for -himself. But he is not bound to. bring a separate
action against several trespassers -on his single, separate, and
distinct tenement or parcel of land. 'As to him they are all
trespassers, and he cannot know lbow they claim, whether
jointly 6r severally; or if severally, how much each one claims;
nor is it necessary to make such proof in order to support his
action. Each defendant, has a right to take defence specially
for such portion of the land as he claims, and by doing so he
necessarily disclaims any title to the residue of the land described in the declaration; and if on the trial he succeeds in.
establishing his title to so much of it as he has taken defence
for, and in showing that he was not in possession of any of
the remainder disclaimed, he will be entitled to- a verdict.
He may also demand a separate trial, and that his case be not
complicated or impeded by the issues made with others, or
.himself made liable for costs unconnected. with his separate
litigation.
If he pleads nothing but the general issue, and is found in
possession of any part of the land demanded, he is considered
as taking defence for the whole. How can he call on the
plaintiffs to prove how inuch he claims, or the jury to find 'a
separate verdict as to his separate holding, when he will neither
by his pleading nor evidence signify how much he claims?
This was a fact known only to himself; and one with which
the plaintiff had no concern'and the jury no knowledge. If a
general verdict leaves each one liable for all the costs, it is a
necessary consequence of their own conduct, and no one has a
right to complain.
In the case of MeGarvey v. Little et al., (not yet reportel,)
when the same objection was made to the charge oftheS6urt,
the Supreme Court of California overruled it, and held "that

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of Frost etal. v. Frostbury Coal Co.

the defendants being in possession, and there being no proof
of the particular portions which they severally occupied or
claimed, there was no error in refusing to direct the jury to
bring in a separate verdict as to each."
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed,
with costs.
THE IESSEE OF ISAIAH

FROST AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ER-

ROR, V. THE'FROSTBURG COAL OOMPANY.

An act of the Legislature of Maryland examined whereby certain named per8ons, and such others as might be associated with them, were incorporated by
the name of the Frostburg Coal Company.
Tle defendants in this suit were made a corporation by the charter, the persons
named in it constituting tie corporate body, clothed with the powers and
privileges cofiferred upon it, and were capable of taking and holding real
estate from the beginning.
Even if it were otherwise . and some irregularities occurred in the organization
of the company, inasmuch as no act made a condition precedent to the existence of-the corporation has been omitted or its non-performance shown, a
party dealing with the company is not permitted to set up the irregularity.
The courts are bound to regard it as a corporation, so far as third persons are
concerned, until it is dissolved by a judicial proceeding on behalf of the Government that created it.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the Unit&I States for the district of Maryland.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued 'by Mr. Dadis and Mr. Shackelford for the
plaintiffs in errof, and by Mr. Price and AMr. Pearrefor the defendants.
The question being on the construction of a local chartet,
the arguments are not likely to be of general interest, and are
therefore omitted.
Mr. Justice NqELSOIN delivered the opiniou of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Coart of the United
States for the district of Maryland.

