THE DECISIONS
OF TIIE

SUPREME COURT OF TilE UNITE D STATES,
AT

DECEMBER TERTM, 1860.

FRANKLIN

MOORE, GEORGE, FoOT,

PLAINTIFFS IN EtRRoR, V.

AND

GEORGE

TimE AMERICAN

F.

BAGLEY,

TRANSPORTATION

COMPANY.
An act of Congress passed on the 3d of March, 1851, (9 Stat. at L., 635,) enti
tled " An act to limit the liability of ship owners, and for other purposes,"
provides that no owner of any ship or vessel shall be liable to answer for any
loss or damage which may happen to any goods or merchandise which shall
be shipped on board any such ship or vessel, by reason of any fire happening
on board the same, unless such fire is caused by design or neglect of such
owner, with a proviso that the parties may make such contract between
themselves on the subject as they please.,
The seventh section provides that this act shatl not apply to the owner or owners of any canal boat, barge, or lighter, or W ..any vessel of any description
whatsoever used in rivers or inland navigation.
The exception does not include vessels used oir the great lakes. Consequently,
where goods were consumed by fire upon Lake -Erie, without any design or
neglect on the part of the owner of the vessel, he was not responsible for the
loss.
The act not only exempts the owner from the casualty of. fire, but limits his liability in cases of embezzlement or loss of goods on board by the master and
others, and also for loss or damage by collisions, and even from any loss or
damage occurring without the privity of the owner, to an amount not exceeding the value of the vessel and freight.

Tuis case was brought up from the Efupreme Court of the
State of Michigan, by a writ of errbr issued under the 25th
VOL. XXIV.
I

SUPREME COURT.
Moore et al. v. American Transportatiou Co.

iection of the judiciary act; the construction of a clause of a
statute of the United States (the exception in section 7 of the
act of March 3, 1851) being drawn in question, and the decision being against the right set up and claimed by the plaintiffs.
in error.
The suit was originally commenced in the Circuit Court for
the county of Wayne, in the State of Michigan, holden in the
city of Detroit, and was brought by the plaintiffs in error,
merchants resident in that city, against the American Transportation Company, a corporation created by the State of New
York.
The declaration was in assumpsit, and charged the defendants as common carriers b1y water, of goods and chattels for
hire, by canal boats and steam propellers, from New York to
Detroit. It then alleged the delivery of about. $3,000 worth
of groceries on board the propeller, at Buffalo, which were not
delivered through the burning of the propeller.
The defendants pleaded the general issue, non assumpsit,
and, under the Michigan practice, appended to the plea a notice that the statute of March 3, 1851, would be relied on as
exempting the defendants. No replication was filed setting
up the exception in the last section of said act, because the
practice inthat State does not permit such a pleading.
The cause was tried twice., At the first trial, the Circuit
Judge ruled in favor of the plaintiffs, instructing the jury that
that portion of the act giving the exemption claimed by the

defendants was not applicable to the case, but that the vessel
was engaged in inland navigation, under the exception, as
claimed by the plaintiffs; and accordingly, September 11,
1857, the plaintiffs had a verdict of $3,050.70.
The defendant presented a bill of exceptions, and to-ok a
writ of error to the Supreme Court of Michigan, where the
verdict was set aside and a new trial granted, upon the ground
that the propeller, when navigating Lake Erie, was not engaged in inland navigation under said exception, as claimed
by the .plaintiff, and held by the court below.
The case is reported in 5 Mich.; (1 Cooley,) 368. November 16, 1858, the new trial was had; and of course it resulted,

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

3

,Hooreet al. v. American Tran.sportation Co.
under the decision of the appellate court given above, in a
verdict for the defendants;
The plaintiffs then filed their bill of exceptions, given at
large in the record, showing that they requested the court to
charge "that the act of Congress of March 3d, 1851, had no
applicability to the case, inasmuch as the ' Spaulding,' bieing
used principally in navigating between the cities of Buffilo
and Detroit, by way of Lake Erie and Detroit river, was engaged in river and inland navigation within the exception in
the last clause of section 7 of said act;" and that the court
refused so to charge, and' charged to the contrary, and the
plaintiffs duly excepted.
Upon writ of error by .theplaintiffs, the Supreme Court of
Michigan affirmed the- judgment below, in accordance with
their former decision, and the plaintiffs brought the case up
to this court.
It was argued by ir. Walker and lIP. Russell for the plain,
tii in error, and by .Mr.Hibbard for the defendants. A motion was made to dismiss the writ for want of jurisdiction, but
the arguments upon this point will not be reported, nor upon
the point of the constitutionality of the act of Congress.
The argument of ir. Russell and Mr. Walker upon the main
point, for the plaintifis in error, was as follows:
The question to be decided is, whether a vessel engaged in
navigation and commerce between tl*e port of Buffalo, on
Lake Erie, and the port of Detroit, on the river Detroit, is
within the meaning of said act of Congress, "used in rivers
Dr inland navigation."
Wbhile we most cheerfully concede that the intention of the
Legislature is to be derived from the language which it has
used, yet, in ascertaining that intention, the previous state of
the law, the defects to be remedied, and the history of the
.egislation, may all be appropriately referred to.
Sedgwick on Statutes, 237, 239.
By the common law, the stringent rule in relation to the

SUPREME COURT.
Moore el al. v. American TransportationCo.

liabilities of common carriers was held to be as applicable to
common carriers by water as by land.
Morse v. Slue, Ventris, 190, (23 Car., 2d.)
Same, Raymond, 220.
Rich v. Kneeland, (11 Jac., 1st,) Cro. Jac., 330.
Dale v. Hall, 1 Willsoii, 281, (A. D. 1750.)
The first limitation of the liability of ship owners was by
the act of 7 Geo. II, c. 15, A. D. 1734.
It is not easy to deteriiiiiie what at this time was the liability
of ship owners by the Continental law, nor was that law uniform; but it is very clear that they were not held to so strict
a liability as by the common law. Thus it would seem, that
in case of embezzlement or othbr wrong, by the master or
mariners, that the owner was only liable to the extent of ship
and freight.
Abbott on Shipping, 395.
Story on Bailments, see. 488.
Hunt v. Morris, 6 Mart. La., 676, 3 Kent., 218.
The act of Parliament referred to provided substantially for
the same thing, and thus put English ships upon an equality
with foreign vessels. The special occasion ot tne passage of
this act seems to have been the decision lin the case of Boucher
v. Lawson, which held that owners were, under some circuistances, liable fir embezzlements committed by the master,
without default of the owner.
Abbott on Shipping, 128, 395.
The liabilities of ship owners were still furthier limited by
the act 26 Geo. III, A. D. 1786. By this act owncr-! were exempted from liability in case of robbery, althougli not coninitted by the master or persons employed upon the vessel,
and also from all responsibility iii case of lo.s or damage by
fire.
Abbott on Shipping, 397, 398.
This act seems to have been suggested by the case of Sutton v. Mitchell, 1 Term Reports, 18, which was an attempt to
make the owners responsible for a robbery committed at the
instigation of a mariner.
Abbott on Shipping, 397.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Moore et al. v. American Transportation Co.

Two other cases decided the same year (1785) may have
had some influence in promoting this legislation.
Forward v. Pittard, 1 Term, 27.
Trent Navigation Co. v. Wood, 3 Esp., 127.
The liabilities of ship owners were still further limited by
53 Geo. III, c. 159, which exempted owners from all responsibility for any damage, by reason of any act or neglect without
their fault or privity, beyond the value of the ship or vessel
and freight.
Abbott on Shipping, 398.
The object of all this legislation was to encourage British
shipping, and put it at least upon an equality with that of other
nations, and it has accordingly been held that these laws were
only applicable to British shipping.
The Dundee, 1 Hagg., 113.
Pope v: Dogherty, 7 Am. Law Reg., 181.
Although the rule of the common law, in relation to the
liability of common carriers, has been fully recognised in this
country from its earliest settlement, and the applicability of
that rule to carriers by water, and although in many instances
ship owners have been held liable for losses by fire occurring
without neglect on their part, yet no successful attempt was
made to limit their liabilities until the passage of the, act of
1851.
2 Kent's Com., 599 and 609.
McClure v. Hammond, 1 Bay., 99.
1810, Scheiiffelin v. Harvey, 6 Johnson, 170.
1815, Elliott v. Rossel, 10 Johnson, 1.
Cases of iFire.
1834, Harrington v. Sha', 2 Watts, 33.
1823, Stbt. Co. v. Bason, Harper, 264:
1838, Patton v. McGrath, Dudley, 159.
1843, Gilmore v. Carman, 1 S. and M., 279.
1843, Hale v. N. J. S. Nav. Co., 15 Conn., 539.
1848, N. J. S. Nav. Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 How., 334.
These last two cases, which grew out of the burning of the
Lexington, very strongly attracted the attention of shipping
and commercial men, and led to ihe enactment of March 3,

SUPREME COUIT.
M.Aoore et al. v. American Transportation Co.

1851.

Although the law upon this subject was perfectly well

settled, losses by fire upon the ocean had been of such rare
occurrence, that ship owners had not frilly recognised their
liabilities until these decisions
The history of that act during its passage is curious, suggestive, and instructive.
23 Congressional Globe, 718-718.
When first introduced into the Senate, the last clause of the
act was as follows: "The preceding sections shall -not apply
to the owner or owners of any canal boat, nor to the owner or
owners of any lighter or lighters employed in loading or un.
loading vessels, or in transporting goods or other property
inland from place to place." Thus limiting the exception to
canal boats and lighters engaged in inland commerce, or, in
other words, extending the benefits of the law to all other
vessels of every description within the jurisdiction of Congress.
The bill had been carefully prepared by the Committee on
Commerce, and was called up by Mr. 11amlin, Senator from
Maine, one of that committee. He said: "It is a bill which I
think is just in its provisions, and it places our commercial
marine upon the same basis as that of Englaiid."
Its consideration was opposed by several distinguished Senators, and urged by others as a measure of great importance.
Mr. Davis, of Massachusetts, said "that it is by a recent decision some two or three years since that the owners of ships
have comprehended their liabilities," and urging the consideration of the measure as a system which had been for many
years in operation in England, and said, "it is simply putting
our merchant marine upon the same footing as that of Great
Britain. We are carriers side by side with that nation in
competition with them, and we cannot aford to give them any
very great advantage over us without afecting our interest
very seriously."
Mr. Cass urged its consideration with great earnestness, for
similar reasons; and when before the Senate upon its merits,
1'fi -Ianflii said: "Itis true that the changes are most radical
fCiom the comnmo1n law upon'the subject, but they are rendered

DECEMBER TERZM, 1860.
3loore e al. v. A=M'iCa

7

TraportationCo.

necessary, first, from the fact that the English common-law
system- really never had any application in this country; and
second that the English Government has changed the law,
which i a veiy strong and established reason why we should
put our commercial' marine upon an equal footing with hers.
Why not give to those who navigate the ocean as many inducements to do so as England has done? Why not place
them upon that great theatre where we are to have the great
contest for the supremacy of the commerce of the world?
This is what this bill. seeks to do, and it asks no more."
Mr. Butler, of South Carolina, opposed the bill, and said:
"Great Britain has more interest in relieving itself from liabilities upon the ocean than any other."
Mr. Underwood, qf.Kentucky, as representing the agricultural interests of the West, opposed the bill, and especially
that portion of it exempting the owners of the vessel from liabilities for loss by fire; he said: "The argument is, that we
cannot compete with our'-great rival upon the ocean, with
Great Britain, and that w6 must pass the first section of this
bill in order to come into. competition with her;." and he
thought the bill would be injurious to the'agriculturists, who
produced articles of commerce, but who were not their. own
carriers; that it would lessen the security without lessening
the cost of freight.
It was to obviate, these objections ciming from the interior
that Mr. Pearce, of Marylandi , moved to strike out the clause
of the bill, and to insert the clause under consideration: " This
act shall not apply to.the owners of any canal boat, barge, or
lighter, or any vessel of any description whatsoever used in
rivers or inland navigation."
Mr. Hamlin, who-had charge of the bill, said: "If those
who represent the interiorwaters of the country desire such an
amendment, I am perfectly willing that it should be made."
Mr. Phelps, of Vermont, Irving upon the banks of Lake

Champlain, opposed the amendment, and said: "If there is
any portion of our navigation which is entitled to the benefit
of this change in the common law of the country, .it is our
iinland-navigation. From my own- expei'ience in my own imme.

SUPREME COURT.
iMoore et al. v. American Dransportation-o.

diate neighborhood, of the navigation of the waters of the
inland section of the country in which I reside, it is proved
that this navigation is more subject to accidents, against which
they cannot guard, than is the navigation of the sea. Under
these circumstances I am opposed to the amendment, because
I think that if. the principle which is incorporated in the bill
be adopted, it should be adopted in regard to all our navigation, internal as well as external."
Mr. Pearce, who introduced the amendment, said: "The
memorials which gave rise to this bill came from that class of
our people who were interested in ocean navigation, and one of
the strongest arguments in support of tflis bill is, that it would
put the ocean navigation of this country upon an equal footing
with the ocean navigation of England and other countries.
No such argument applies to this case; it is very manifest that
the passage of this bill, without this amendment, will operate
very disadvantageously to the interests of inland navigation."
Mr. Rantoul was willing to vote for the amendment, because
it did not affect those sections directly interested in foreign
navigation, and was willing that the other sections should
make such arrangements as best suited their purpose.
Mr. Seward opposed the amendment, because it introduced
"one system for ships that were engaged in the State of New
York, another system for the commerce on our lakes, on Lakes
Erie, Ontario and MIchigan; one system for the rivers and
lakes, and another system for the ocean navigation." "The
reasons which lead to the necessity for this bill are applicable
to the inland navigation, and not to ocean navigation alone."
Mr. Clayton, of Delaware, said: "I suppose the amendment
will apply to lake navigation as well as inland navigation."
Mr. Walker, of Wisconsin, favored the amendment, for the
reason "that the great producing interests of the country require it."

Mr. Shields, of Illinois, said: "I also hope the amendment
will be adopted. I do not think we have too many guaranties
upon our lVcstcr; waters for the safety of either passengers or
freight.."
Looking, then, at the history of British legislation upon this

DECEMBER TERler, 1860.
.oore et al. v. .American Transportation Co.

subject, and the greater liabilities that rested upon our ship
owners, which had been so clearly brought to light by the
decisions growing out of the loss of the Lexington, it seems
very clear that the purpose of the act was in relation to ocean
navigation, to place our vessels upon an equality with those of
Great Britain, and enable them to compete successfully with
British and other foreign shipping for the commerce of the
seas. It seems equally clear, that the provisions of the clause
in question were intended to be extended as well to commerce
upon the lakes as on rivers. The British statutes exempting ships from liabilities were
not in force in Canada and.upon fihe great lakes, nor was there
upon those lakes any real competition between British and
American shipping. It already stood upon an equality in
relation to legal liability, and, practically, American shipping
had the ef'tire monopoly of the commerce.
Is there anything in this exception itself that requires a
-lifferent construction? We think not.
In the first place, the exception excludes from the operation
of the act certain vessels, irrespective of the character of the
navigation in which they are engaged, canal boats, barges, and
lighters. These, from their very nature, cannot be used in
ocean navigation, nor be exposed to its hazards.
Then there is excluded froih the operation of the act, "vessels of any description whatsoever used in rivers or inland
navigation;" the phrase is subciently comprehensive to include everything that floats upon water, if used in the specified
way.
Webster's Diet., "Vessel."
The phrase "used in rivers" is too unambiguous to require
explanation or construction.
The remaining question, and which is the question in this
case, is, what construction is to be given to the phrase "inland
navigation;" shall it be held to embrace navigat.ion upon Lake
Erie and our great lakes? That this is the obvious, natural,
and popular meaning of the phrase, we think there can be no

SUPREME COURT.
Moore etal. v. American TransportationCo.

doubt. This is admitted by Judge Conklin, who suggests,
however, a different construction.
Conklin Ad., 209.
It is now clearly settled, that in the constructior, of statutes
the courts will give to the language used its ordinary and
obvious meaning, unless from the statute itself it is clearly
apparent that some other meaning was intended.
Sedgwick on Stat. Law, 243, 260, 810, 882.
Tisdale v. Comb, 7 Ad. and E., 788.
Lakes are from their very nature inland, and must be so,
and the navigation upon them must therefore he inland navigation.
5 Am. Encyc., art. "Lake."
4 Nat. Cyc., art. "Canada."
5 Ed. Encyc., art. " Canada."
7 Nat. Cyc., art. "Lake."
Maunder's Scientific Treas., art. "Lake."
Webster's Diet., arts. "Lake" and "Sea."
Thus the Caspian, though sometimes called a sea, is strictly
a lake, being a large collection of water in an inland place.
15 Ed. Encyc., art. "Physical Go.," 608.
5 Amer. nyc., art. i'Lake."
7 Nat. Encyc., art. "Lake."
Webster's Diet., art. "Sea."
The word "inland," as applied to navigation or bodies of
water, is used as the correlative of ocean or tide water.
Webster's Diet., "Inland."
We refer to a few only of the many instances in which the
terms "inland seas," ''inland waters," and "inland navigation," have been-used by jurists and by other writers in re!ation to, or so as necessarily to include, the great lakes.
"Inland Seas," Woodbury, J., 5 How., 495.
"Interior Lakes," Webster Arguendo, 6 How., 378.
"Inland Seas," Taney, Ch. J., 12 How., 458.
"Interior Waters," Daniel, J., 20 fow.,314.
"Inland Waters,' Catron, J., 20 flow., 401.
"Inland Waters," Clifford, J., 21 How., 22.
"'Inland Navigation," Shaw, Ch. J., 11 Pick., 42.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

11

Moore et aZ. v. American 2'anortation Co.

"Inland
"Inland
"Inland
"Inland
"Inland
"Inland
"Inland

Navigation," 1 :Newberry, Pref. VIH.
Seas," Arguendo, 1 Newberry, 545.
Seas," Pratt, J., 3 Mich., 275.
Navigation," 1 Conk. Adm., 5, 8, 17.
Watets," 1 Conk. Adm., Pref. VIII.
Seas," Ed. Cyc., art. "Phys. Ceo.," 608.
Seas," 1 Murray's Hist. of Canada, 22.

"Inland Navigation," Summerville's Phys. Geo., 266.
"Inland Seas," 3 Murray's Encyc. of Geo., 350.
"Inland Seas," Webster in his Buffalo speech, 1833; and
in his 1st speech in reply to Hayne.
'-Interior Trade," 3 Bancroft's Hist. of U. S., 111.
Indeed, it may well be said, that the great lakes are but expansions of the rivers connecting them, and this is the position
taken by eminent geographers; some of whom give the length
of the St. Lawrence as commencing at the head of Lake Superior.
4 Nat. Cyc., art. "Canada."
5 Ed. Encyc., art. "Canada."
9 Amer. Encyc., art. "Lake."
The term, therefore, "inland navigation," obviously and
naturally includes lake navigation.
It is, too, clearly apparent, that the great lakes were to be
included within the exception, from the fact that allriversas well those connecting the great lakes as others-are expressly within it, and there could be no reason why the navigation upon the St..Clair, the Detroit, and the St. Lawrence,
should be governed by a different rule from that of the connecting lakes; the commerce is intimately, nay, indissolubly,
connected together, carried on by thd same vessels, in same
voyages, subjejt to similar perils and similar competition.
Nor can it be said that these rivers are but straits connectiug lakes, and therefore-not embraced under the title "rivers."
Straits only connect ocean waters.
Maunder's Scientific Treas., art. "Straits."
Webster's Diet., art. "Straits."
17 Am. En9yc., art. "Straits." "
Rees's Encyc., art-."Straits.

SUPREME COURT.
-Mooreet al. v. American TransportationCo.

While these connecting waters are strictly rivers, answering
in every respect the description of rivers, as given by lexicographers and geographers: "A river is a large stream of water
flowing in a channel on land towards the ocean, a lake, or
another river."
Webster's Dict., "River."
Maunder's Scientific Treas., "River."
16 Amer. Encyc., "River."
15 Ed. Encyc., "Phys. Geo.," 599.
4 Nat. Cyc., "Canada."
The Constitution v. the Young America, 1 Newb. Ad.,
106.
And from their discovery they have been termed rivers.
Phat the St. Lawvrence is universally styled a river we need
Only refer to a very few of the many authorities upon this
subject. In all books of geography and travel, in all histories,
it is spoken of as one of the great rivers of the world.
5 Ed. Encyc., art. "Canada."
15 Ed. Encyc., "Phys. Geo.," 602, 606.
16 Amer. Encyc., art. "River."
4 Nat. Cyc., art. "Canada."
10 Nat. Cyc., art. "River."
3 Murray's Encyc. of Geo., 342, 350, 360, 607.
1 Smith's Hist. of Canada, 5.
1 Warburton's Conquest of Canada, 58.
Maj. Rogers's Account of N. America, 25.
10 U. S. Stat. at Large, Reciprocity Treaty, art. 4.
Although the name "Detroit," of itself, means "the strait,'yet it is strictly a river, and is almost universally known as
the Detroit river. It is so named in various acts of Congress,
and in the very act admitting Michigan into the Union the
"Detroit river" is described as one of its boundaries.
5 U. S. Stat. at Large, 49, 185.
3 U5. S. Stat. at Large, 534.
10 U. S. Stat. at Large, 63;
It is so universally named in the statutes of Michigan.
I Comp. Laws, 40, 41, 48.
Laws of Mich., 1857,. pp. 73, 95, 105, 209.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
.Aoore elat. v. Amcrican Transportation Co.

8o in all the laws and ordinances in relhtion to the city of

Detroit.
See Charter and Ordinances of Detroit.
So in numerous judicial opinions.
6 McLean, 153; 155, 156, 485.
1 Newberry's Admiralty, 11, 13, 16, 46, 47, 63, 89, 95,
103, 106, 537, 539, 541, 542, 544, 545, 547, 549, 550,
551, 553.
2 Doug., (Mich.,) 33, 34, 36, 258, 260.
1 Mich. R., 273, 275.
5 _Mich., 371, 377, 378; 20 How., 315:
So by miscellaneous writers.
Iennepin's Travels, (1698,) 33.

Carver's Travels,'151.
3 Bancroft's Hist. U. S., 134.
2 Hildreth's Hist. U. S., 114.
Lanman's Mich;, 40, 41.
1 Murray's Hist. of Canada, 24.
3 Murray's Encyc: of Geo., 566, 569.
10 Nat. Cyc., art. "River."
Colton's Gazetteer, art. "Detroit."
15 Nat. Review, 432, (1827.)
The reason why "navigable waters" is used in the act of
February 26; 1845, instead of "navigable rivers," is, that these
were artificial navigable waters connecting the lakes as well
as rivers.
The Constitution v. Young America, 1 Newb., 106.
Nor will it do to say that navigation upon Lake Erie is not
inland navigation because it is a great lake. The size cannot
alter the question whether it be an inland body of water or

not. No such distinction: is anywhere recognised; and if any
such distinction be attempted, what is the dividing line between a lake that is inland and one that is not? To which
class does Lake Champlain, Lake St. Clair, or the Lake of the
Woods, belong? Inland, in this connection, means remote from
the sea.
Neither does the immense importance of its commerce furnish any reason why lake navigation is not included in'the

SUPREME COURT.
Noore et al. v. American TranportationCo.

term "inland navigation." The very same commerce traverses
the St. Clair, the Detroit, and the St. Lawrence, while the
magnitude of lake commerce is rivalled by that of the Mississippi and the Hudson, and their commerce is expressly within
the exception.
iNor does the fact that tlWe commerce of the lakes is within
admiralty jurisdiction furnish any reason why it should not
be included in the term "inland navigatioia." The commerce
of all the great rivers of the continent is equally within this ,

jurisdiction, and it is expressly within the exception, and it is
inland as well as river navigation.
The Genesee Chief v. Fitzhugh, 12 *How., 234.
Fritz v. Bull, 12 How., 466.
Jackson v. Magnolia, 20 How., 291.
Prop. F. W. Backus, 1 Newb., 1.
Barque Jenny Lind, 1 Newb., 447.
The lakes and rivers and the commerce and navigation of
the lakes and rivers of the West are usually mentioned to•gether, and it is hardly conceivable that different rules should
be applied to each.
Woodbury, J., Clash v. Warner, 5 How., 495.
Taney, Ch. J., .Genesee Chief Case, 12 How., 47, 451.
Grier, J., Magnolia Case, 20 How., 302.
McLean, J., Magnolia Case, 20 How., 303.
Daniel, J., Magnolia Case, 20 How., 315.
Campbell, J., Magnolia Case, 20 How., 833.
The fact that Lake Erie is a border lake, and that through it
runs the national boundary line, furnishes no reason why its
navigation is not inland. The term "inland" can have no such
meaning as "interior," within the country, within the national
boundary line. This rule would bring within the exception
Lakes Michigan and Champlain, and exclude from it lakes no
larger, Erie and St. Clair. Rivers, too, form boundary lines;
and upon any such construction, are they within or without
the exception? What rule is to govern the commerce upon
the St. John's, the' St. Croix the St. Lawrence, the Niagara,
the St. Clair, the Detroit, the 1'7. Mary's, the Pigeon, and the
Colorado? Is it inland navigation o" Qt? And suppose a

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

15

toore et al. v. American TransportationCo.

loss should occur upon inland waters entirely within the borders of a foreign country, as upon Georgian bay and Lake
:Nipising,

the vessel being American, the parties American,

and the suit being brought in an American court, would the
case be within the exception or without it?
We submit, then, that the locality of the water, whether
within or without our territorial limits, does not determine
the character of the navigation, whether inland or not; that it
cannot be that Lake.Champlain is "inland" and Sorrel river
"outland," Lake Michigan inland and Lake St. Clair nc4, t'he'Mississippi inland and Pigeon river not.
It has been suggested that these great lakes are no more
"inland" than the close and narrow seas, like the Baltic and
the Mediterranean, and that the navigation of those seas is
never termed "inland navigation."
But the analogy does not hold. The very term "inland"
implies remote from the -sea or tide water, and while the lakes
are great like close seas, they are still remote from tide water,
and therefore inland; while the seas are a part of the great
ocea.i, on its level or nearly so, swept. by its tides, governed
by its laws, and like the ocean itself, not subject to dominion,
but a free pathway for all nntions.
'Wheaton's International Law, 150, 158.
Vattel's Law of Nations, 187, 194.
Campbell, J., Jackso' v. Magnolia, 20 How., 340.
Not .so the lakes; they cannot be approached from the sea
save by artificial means: they are not an open highway to all
nations, but are within the exclusive sovereignty of the riparian nations, and it to only by treaty that they are free on
either side of the bo'ndary line to the two great nations that
border on them and exercise their sovereignty over them.
It has also been suggested, that the reason why river and
inland navigation was excepted from the operation of the act
of 1851 was, that there was serious doubt as to the jurisdiction
of Congress over such navigation, while ir relation to the nay.
igation upon the great lakes no such doubt existed.
But it is well settled that Congress has the same jurisdiction
over navigation upon rivers that it has over that upon the

SUPREME COURT.
Moore et al. v. American Tra,.sportation Co.

lakes, and that it has no jurisdiction over either except as it
extends between States or with foreign nations.
Fritz v. Bull, 12 How., 466.
Jackson v. Magnolia, 20 How., 296.
Allen v. Newbury, 21 How., 244.
McGuire v. Card, 21 How., 248.
There are few authoritiei bearing directly upon the questio
involved. Judge-Conkih;' in the last edition of his Admit
,alty, suggests, indeedi that if the language of the act be not
"liao qnpqr Lyocal and definite to admit of the exercise of juadeial '1isWtion, that' its determination may depend upon the
motives to which the exception shall be ascribed ;" and, starting from an entirely erroneous view of those motives, comes
to the conclusion that it is possible to give to the act the construction contended for by the defendant in error.
1 Conk. Admiralty, 209.
Parsons simply announces the decision of the court below
in this case without note or comment.
1 Parsons's Shipping, 401.
The Supreme Court of the Western District of New York,
at the February term, 1858, in the case of Root et al. v. Hart
et al., decided that lake navigation was included within the
exception by the phrase "inland navigation."
The Supreme Court of the city ofBuffalo made the same
decision, after fully considering the opinion of the.court below
in this case.
Bresler v. M. S. & N. I. R. R. (o., Dec, Terin, 18.58.
These, with the decision of the Supreme 'Court of Michigan
in the ease at bar, are the only decision- bearing upon the
construction of this statute. Judge Clifford, in the case of
the propeller Niagara v. Cordes, suggests that the question
may arise whether the lakes are not excluded from the operation of the act under the term "inland navigation," but no
opinion is intimated,
20 How., 26.
yery nearly copied from
The language of this exe-eption -is
an exception in the act 52 Geo. It, which is as follows: "That
nothing therein 'bntained "shag extend to. the"'owner of "al--y

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

17

foore et al. v. American Transportation Co.

lighter, barge, boat, or vessel of any description whatsoever,
used solely in rivers or inland navigation, or any ship or vessel
not duly registered according to law."
But we look in vain for any decisions in the English courts
that throw any light upon the question now before this court.
Inland navigation in England is carried oin mostly, if not
entirely, by canal boats, barges, and lighters, in streams
strictly land guarded, or in canals. They have no great rivers
and no navigable lakes, and there can be no analogy between
the inland navigation in the two countries.
An attempt to apply the term "inland navigation," as it
e.ists in England, to this country, would be as difficult and as
impracticable as to apply here the English definition of navi'

gable waters.

Bowman v. Wathen, 2 McLean, 382.
Angel on Watercourses, sees. 545, 550.
Or as unreasonable as to adopt the English definition of
admiralty jurisdiction, limiting it to the high seas outside of
the limits of any county. This rule was never adopted in this
country.
The Jefferson, 10 Wheat., 428.
Peyroux v. Howard, 7 Pet., 342.
U. S. v. Coombs, 12 Pet., 72.
And yet the Supreme Court of the State of Michigan seemed
to have adopted this local definition of "inland navigation,"
as applicable to this country.
The same court referred to several English decisions to
show that when a specific class of vessels were named in a
statute, followed by general words, that the latter were to be
construed to apply only to vessels of the same class of build
or business, and the inference that they suggest rather than
state is, the words "vessels of any description whatsoever"
are controlled by the vessel previously described, and must be
held to apply only to vessels like barges, canal boats, and
lighters, and used in the same way.
5 Mich., 384.
We submit that there is no such arbitrary rule of construc-

tion, and that whether the general worqsTare to be thus conVOL. XXIV
2

SUPREME COURT.
Noore et al. v. American -1?ansportation Co.

trolled and construed is a question of intent, to be drawn
from the whole'act.
Here it is apparent that there is no such intent. Canal
boats, barges, and lighters, wherever and however used, are to
be excluded from the benefits of the act, and the words "any
vessel," &c., are not used at all to enlarge the number and
kind of vessels thus excluded. The object of the remaining
part of the exception is to exclude from the benefits of the act
vessels of every description, large or small, used in a certain
way, viz : in rivers or inland navigation; and to give the construction contended for, would extend the benefit of the act
to all large vessels, however used, and thus defeat the obvious
intent of the act, of excepting from its benefits all vessels
used in rivers and inland navigation.
In this respect the exception of the act of Congress requires
a different construction from the exception in the stat. 53,
sec. 3. There is but one class of vessels affected by this, other
than unregistered ones.
But the English cases cited, so far from favoring the view
suggested by the court, seem to us to have a directly contrary
effect.
The case of Hunter v. McGowan, 1 Bligh, 180, arose under
the 2d section of 26 Geo. I-i, c. 86, by which "any ship or
vessel' shall not be made liable for losses by fire; and it washeld that, from the whole structure of the act, it clearly related
only to ships and vessels usually occupied in sea voyages, and
that its .protection did not extend to a galbert, a species of
lighter. This decision was not founded on any such arbitrary
rule of construction as is referred to, but was based upon the
intention clearly appearing from the whole act.
Morewood v. Pollock, 18 E. L. and Eq., 343.
5 Mich., 384.
In the case of Blanford v. Morrison, 15 0. B., 724, by the
same kind of reasoning, viz: the intent appearing upon the
whole' act, it was held that the word9 "any lighter, vessel,
barge, or other craft," did not include a coal brig which
brought coal coastwise from Newcastle,. but was held to

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

19

Moore el al. v. Americat Transportation Co.

'"

apply merely to such vessels as were employed to unload coal
from others for delivery.
5 Mich., 385.
In Regina v. Reed, 28 L. and Eq., 133, it was held that a
monopoly of navigation given to a company of watermen,
within certain limits, "by any lighter, wherry, or other craft,"
did not extend to a steam tug used for tugging the hull of
another vessel. It was held that it was a penal act giving a
monopoly, and that it was to be construed strictly, and from
the nature and purposes of the act, which was to protect
wherry-men and lighter-men in carrying passengers and goods,
that the term "other craft" must be construed to mean craft
of the same 'lescription and used for a similar purpose, and
that it did not apply to the steam tug used for the 'purpose
named.
To the same point is Reed v. Ingham, 26 L. and E., 164.
But in another cas6 arising under the same act, it was held
that a power authorizing the mayor and aldermen of London
to make by-laws for regulating "the boats, vessels, and other
craft, to be rowed or worked within the limits of the act,".did
extend to steamboats.
Tisdell v. Coomb, 7 Ad. and E., 788.
We submit that none of these cases, in the remotest degree,
authorize or favor the construction, that the words "any vessel of any description" are to be limited to vessels of the same
kind or business, as -canal boats, barges, and lighters.
The Supreme Court of Michigan seem to suggest that the
navigation upon the lakes is not to be termed inland navigation, for the reason that they are not entirely within the
territory of the United States, but are border waters; and yet
it is admitted that this cannot determine the character of the
navigation, for Lakes Michigan and Champlain are not border
lakes; and many rivers, some of which are narrow and landguarded, are border rivers; yet this cannot prevent the navigation upon them from being inland navigation.
The same court also suggests that the navigation of the
lakes is not to be deemed inland navigation because of the
maritime character of its commerce. This reasoning applies

SUPREME COURT.
.Nooreet at. v. American TransportationCo.

with as great force to the large rivers as it does to the lakes,
and by that fact turns all its force.
It is further suggested that the navigation of the lakes is
not to be deemed inland, because lake vessels also navigate
the ocean. This is equally true of vessels uavigating.the great
rivers, and the question whether such vessels are used in ocean
navigation or in inland, must be determined precisely as such
questions have before been determined. The question will
be, what is the navigation in which they are principally used?
The coal boat 15. C. Salisbury, Alcott's Adm., 74.
Buckley v. Brown, Bright's Digest, 305.
McCormic v. Ives, Abbott's Adm., 418.
N. J. Steam Nav. Co. v. Merchants' W'k. 6 How., 392.
Walker v. Cheney, 4 Am. Law Reg., 407.
But it would seem it is only by the assent of Great Britait.
and her courtesy that American lake vessels can pass to the
ocean.
Recip. Treaty of 1854, art. 4.
We- submit, in conciusion, that the ordinary meaning should
be given to the word "inland" in this act, and that there is
nothing in the act itself, in the history of legislation upon the
subject in judicial decisions, or in the reasoning of the court
below, to authori4e the forced construction which was given
to itby that court.
Mr. George B. Hibbard,for the defendant in error, made the
following points:
-Point_F 'rst. The'steamboat, at the time of her being burned,
was not "used in inland navigation'," and therefore the defendant in error, though a common carrier, was not liable for the
loss of the goods..
I. The act entitled' "An act to limit the liability of ship
owners, and for ,other purposes," exempts the defendant in
error from that liability.
9 Stat. at L., 635.
1. The. first section of the act, in substance, provides that
*the. owner of any ship or vessel shall not be liable for any loss
to any goods on board the ship or vessel by reason or means

DEOEMBER TERM, 1860.
Moore et al. v. American TransorationCo.

of any fire happening on board the ship or vessel, unless caused
by the design or neglect of such owner.•
2. The third section limits the liability of the owner in
cases of collision, &c., &c., happening without the privity or
knowledge of the owner, to the amount or value of the interest
of such owner in the ship or vessel and her freight then
pending.
3. The fourth section of the act provides substantially that
the vessel owner, in certain cases, may exempt himself from
liability, by assigning his interest in the vessel to a trustee for
the benefit of the claimants against him.
4. The last clause of the seventh section reads as follows:
"This act shall not apply to the owner or owners of any canal
boat, barge, or lighter, or to any vessel of any description
whatsoever, used in rivers or inland navigation."
IL For the purpose of arriving at the meaning of the last
quoted clause of the act, it is necessary, in the first instance,
to refer to former legislation on the subject in England, (the
act in question being virtually a re-enactment of English statutes;) the state of the law befoie that legislation; the causes
which led to the passage of the English acts, as well as our
own, and the objects sought to be promoted by the legislation
of both countries. Such aids in interpretation of the law are,
beyond question, proper.
1 Kent's Com., 460.
Tonnell v. Hall, 4 Comstock, 140.
Aldridge v. Williams, 3 Howard, 1, 24.
1. The principle of the act, unqualified by the limiting
clause in question, has been operative in all modern civilized
nations, possessing a national commerce, whenever the policy
of such nations has been finally adapted to the exigencies of
that commerce.
2. By the civil law itself, the owners of vessels were liable,
in matters ex deicto, according to the amount of their respective
interebts in the ship. This, however, was not the case in mat.
tern arising ex contractu.
2 Brown's Civ. and Ad. L., 186, 138, 141.
The Rebecca, Ware, 194, 195.

22.

SUPREME COURT.
Moore et al.v. American Transportation Co.

3. The principle of this rule was adopted by nearly, if not
quite, all the maritime powers of Europe, (excepting England,
though England soon adopted tt by legislation,) with the important qualification, however, that the extent of-the liability,
both in matters arising ex contractu and ex deticto, should be
equal only to the amount of the interest of the owner sought
to be charged in the ship itself. It was the law of Holland,
H *amburg,and Sweden, (and indeed of the whole north of
Europe,) with the same right in the owner as that given by
the fourth *ection of the act immediately in question, of exempting himself entirely from personal liability, by iurrendering the'ship to the injured parties. It was the law of France
by special ordinance, which, however, was said by Cleirac to
be but a recognition of a rule acknowledged as generally
existing. It was the general law of the Mediterranean.
Grotius De Jure Belli et Pacis, Liv. 2, c. 11, sec. 13.
Marine Ordinance Louis XI-, title 4.
2 Peters Ad. Decis., Appendix XVI.
Cleirac, Navigation des Rivieres, art. 15, p. 502.
Consulat de la Mer, c. 34.
The Rebecca, Ware, 19.5, 196, 197.
4. The whole principle whicl led to the legislation in England, (and which legislation was the source of our own act,)
was recognised in its application to ships; and that, too, without limitation as to the waters upon which the ships were
nvavigated.
Abbott ofi Shipping, 395.
5. The case of Boucher v. Lawson was decided in 1733. It
held that. the ship owner mas liable for coin embezzled by
the master after shipment.
Boucher v. Lawson, Rep. Temp. llardwicke, 85.
The merchants of London, alarmed by this decision, on
petitiob to Parliament, procured the passage, in 1734, of the
act'7 Geo II,e. 15.
Abbott on Sh., 395.
This act provided that the owner should not be liable for
any such embezzlement, or for any other act of the master or

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

23

Atoore et al. v. American TrantsportationCo.

mariners, done without the privity, &c., of the owner, beyond
the value of the interest of the owner in the ship.
6. The case of Boucher v. Lawson was followed by the case
of Sutton v. Mitchell; and that by the case, decided in 1785,
of Forward v. Pittard.
Sutton v. Mitchell, 1 T. R., 18.
Forward v. Pittard, 1 T. R., 27.
Lord Mansfield, iii deciding this last case, says: "There are
events for which the carrier is liable, independent of his contract." That further responsibility is "by the custom of the
realm; that is, by the common law, by which a carrier is in
the nature of an insurer." , Upon familiar principles, he therefore decides a carrier, in a case of accidental fire,. to be liable
for the entire loss happening thereby to the owner of the goods
in process of carriage.
This was the undoubted common-law rule at the time; and
under the custom of the realm, the law of England- being
established to bF, thus different from that of continental Europe, these decisions were followed (in the enligbten d:policy
of promoting so much of commerce as was really national) .by
the act of 26 Geo. fI, c. 86, in 1786; and this by 53 Geo.
I, c. 159, in 1813.
The object of all these acts is stated in some of the acts
themselves. It was stated in the preamble to the act of 7
Geo. IlI, that "it was of the greatest consequence and importance to the lkingdom tQ promote the increase of the number of ships and vessels, and to prevent any discouragement
to merchants and others frombeing interested and concerned.
therein." The courts have recognised the whole objects of
this legislation to be, "to encourage persons to become the
owners of ships."
Gale v. Laurie, 5 B. and C., 156.
7.' The acts of Geo. III are the sources, and almost the
exact originals, of the act of Congress of 1851. The main
provisions of the English acts are almost in language, and
altogether in principle and object, identical with the act of
1851. The last clause of the act of 53 G eb. IHE is almost pre
cisely like the portion of the act of Congress more pirtjcdlarI3

SUPREME COURT.
Moore et al. v. American TransportationCo.

under consideration. The English statute provides that it
shall not extend to "the owners of any lighter, barge, boat, or
vessel of any burden or description whatsoever, used wholly
in rivers or inland navigation, or vessel not duly registered
according to law."
8. The common-law rule, unqualified by legislation, became
the law of this country. The case of the Lexington was decided in 1848.
The N~T.
J. S. M. Co. v. The Merchants' Bank, 6 How., 344.
It was followed by the act of 1851.
9. The causes which led to the passage of the act of 1851
were, therefore, precisely similar to those which led to the
English legislation. The acts of both countries are essentially
the same. The commercial'policy of both countries, and the
objects to be subserved by the legislation of each, in this particular, are alike. Beyond all question, therefore, (and particularly under the rules of statutory construction referred to,
Point First, II,) each of these acts must illustrate the other.
The ojilcts of all must aid in the interpretation of each. The
authorities of either country bearing directly upon either of
the acts, or upon kindred legislation, must aid in the construction sought for.
IT. Approaching the immediate question under Point First,
after brief review of the causes and objects of the law in question, the defendant in error claims, directly, that the navigation
of Lake Erie and the great Western lakes is not "inland."
1. The meaning of the words "inland navigation," as thus
employed, does not include the navigatioii of such waters.
2. The question is not what is the geographical meaning of
the word "inland," used in distinguishing seas from oceans,
or the waters within the body of a continent from the high
seas. The question is as to the meaning of the phrase "inland
navigation," employed in reference to a commercial business,
and to promoting commercial objects. In this view, the meaning of the same words, or equivalent phrases in the same
connection,- are the true governing authorities, so far as mere
definition is concerned.
3. The exact definition of the word "inland," as well as the

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

25

Noore et al.v. American Transportatio Co.

phrase "inland navigation," shows that such navigation is not
the navigation of the great Western lakes. Webster's definition, (Webster's Diet., "Inland,") as applied to navigation, is:
"Carried on within a country; olomestic, not foreign, as inland
trade or transportation; inland navigation." Worcester defines the word thus employed (Worcester's Diet., "Inland;".') as:
"Pertaining to the interior of a country; internal; opposed
to coasting; inland navigation." In Rees's Encyclopedia,
(Rees's Encyclopedia, "Inland Navigation,") "inland naviga-"
tion" is defined to be a term "applied to the passage of boats
and vessels'on canals and rivers within a country, to dis:
tinguish it from navigation, properly so' called, by means of
shipping on the open seas, or on the largest of the lakes."
The definition of the Encyclopedia,Britalnica (Encyc. .Brit.,
"N'avigation, Inland ") is as follows: "Inland navigation 'may
be defined as that branch of navigation which extends from
the sea to the land, and affbrds the means of transportation
through the interior of a country.
The word "inland," thus used, is opposed in meaning to the
word "foreign." "Foreign" (Burrill's Law Diet., " 1oreign")
means "that which, is'without or beyond- the limits of a
particular territory," as the Western lakes are beyond the
limits of a particular State. The navigation of the lakes .is
not "inland," as a bill of exchange drawn by a citizen of one
State upon a citizen of another State is not an ifland bill, and
was formerly called an "outland bill," "to distinguish it,"
as says Justice Story, (Story on Bills, sees. 22, 23,) "from an
inland bill, which is governed throughout by one municipal'
jurisprudence." Such navigation, thus conducted, through
the systems of jurisprudence of several States, (whien Congress,
beneath its power, hereinafter considered, is silent on the
subject,) is foreign, in the sense that the ships employed in
that navigation are foreign to the State in which they are not
owned.
Conklin's Admiralty, 57.
The consideration of some decisions may further. illustrate
this view. The statute of limitations of the State of Georgia
provided tha, in certain cases,, it should -uot apply to parties

26

SUPREME COURT.
Moore et al. v. American TransportationCo.

"beyond seas." It was held that the phrase meant beyond
the limits of the State, irrespective of the question whether or
not the party was in fact beyond any sea or other water.
Murray v. Baker, 3 Wheaton, 341.
Shelby v. Guy, 11 Wheaton, 361.
Beyond the jurisdiction of the State of Georgia, the party
was "beyond seas "-beyond the control of the jurisprudence
of that State, and necessarily, therefore, not "inland."
Upon the actual meaning, therefore, of the word "inland,"
so used, it must be determined that the words "inland navigation," in the statute, signify only a navigation carried on
within the body of the country; and doubtless, (particularly
when considered, as the question must be, and is hereinafter,
under the powers of Congress over commerce,) when applied
to lake navigation; a navigation conducted beneath the jurisprudence of a single State. It means a navigation which,
when carried on on the lakes, is not the coasting trade.
4. The navigation, to be "inland," must be upon waters
themselves "inland." The great Western lakes are not such
inland waters.
This is a question of commerce and of law, not of geography.
Other waters exist upon the face of the globe, the precise par-.
allel of the Western lakes in commercial and legal view, which
certainly are not "inland." Therefore the Western lakes are
not "inland."
The case of the Genesee Chief, (Fitzhugh v. the Genesee
Chief, 12 How., 443,) which will be hereafter adverted to in a
more important view, established the principle that the business of the Western lakes and their national position determined their commercial and legal character, and that the
distinctions, convenient in England, of the rise and fall of the
tide and the saltness of the water, had nothing to do with thus
fixing that character. Excluding, therefore, once for all, these
immaterial tests, the great Western lakes, when viewed in
comparison with other waters, not only are not "inland," but
are commercial and legal seas.
Aind, first, as to their not being inland, regarded in tf e sug.
gested coinparizson.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Moore et al. v. American Transort tion Co.

The Baltic sea, with the Gulfs of Finland and Bothnia,
form one chain of waters; the Mediterranean, the Adriatic,
the sea of Marmora, and the Black sea, another, like the- line
of the great Western lakes. The Mediterranean long hab
been known as the "tideless sea," and was, beside, the "mare
internum" of the Romans.
Edinburgh Review, Oct., 1857, "The Mediterranean."
Encyclopedia Britannica, "The Mediterranean."
The inlets to both these chains of watemare narroW. In
other physical features they are like tbem. -In commercial
character they are identical with them. Classed by the geographers, in the loose language which so generalizes such
waters, as easily to distinguish them from the great oceans,
they are sometimes termed, (as the Western lakes themselves
were termed by Chief Justice Taney, in the Genesee Chief
case,) "inland seas." Yet would the navigation of these Enropean waters, or of Hudson's Bay, or Long Isand Sound, or
of the Gulf of Mexico, be termed "inland," in the view in
which they must be regarded in this case?' To the communities which dwelt along the borders of the European seas, and
maintained a commerce petty in comparison with that now
upon the Western lakes, we owe the very foundations of that
body of admiralty law, never devised or efficient with reference to an inland commerce. From such communities sprang
the Rhodian law, the Consulat de la Mer, the Tables of
Amalfi, the laws of Wisbuy, ofOleron, and the Hanse towns.
There lived those early writers upon maritime law, to whom
we now look for the practical exposition of questions arising
with respect to a commerce upon our lakes, far more like
their own than that carried on upon the high seas. Waters
thus situated, over which was extended that body of admiralty
law which never was applicable to an ."inland" trade, cerIi
tainly never were "inland."
The Twee Gebroeders, 3 0. Robinson, 386.
Our waters, their very parallel, in every physical, commcrcial, and legal feature, and over which the same body of laws
(as was decided in the Genesee Chief case, from the very character of the waters) extends to day, equally are not "inland.'

SUPREME COURT.
Hoore et al. v. American TransportationCo.

But, as has been said, these waters are commercial and
legal seas, and therefore their navigation cannot be "inland."
They are extra fauces terrce.
The Schooner Harriet, I Story R., 251, 259.
They are waters where, to adopt the language of Sir Matthew
Hale, "a man nfay not discern from shore to shore."
De Port. Marls. I-arg. Tracts, c. 4, p. 10.
Hawkins Pl. C., b. 2, c. 9, sec. 14.
U. S. v. Grush, 5 Mason, 290, 298.
They are not within the boundary of any county; and,
within the definition of Lord Coke himself, are therefore not
inland.
4 Inst., 140, c. 22.
2 East. P. C., c. 17, sec. 10.
Comyn's Dig. Admiralty E., 7.
De Loviot v. Boit, 2 Gallison, 398, 426, 427.
Waring v. Clark, 5 How., 441, 462.
They are bordered not only by the States constituting the
United States, but by the province of a foreign nation. Their
navigation is subject to all the hazards that attend that of the
ocean. "Hostile fleets," to use the language of Chief Justice
Taney in the Genesee Chief case, "have encountered upon
them, and prizes have been made there." The same system
of admiralty law applies to them as to the commerce of the
remoter oceans. That commerce, as will hereafter lie seen,
is equally extensive with that of our foreign commerce itself.
It is repeated, there is not a characteristic (excluding the
immaterial ones of the ebb and flow of the tide and the saltness of the water, excluded by, the Genesee Chief case, and
which in this view always would have been excluded-2
Peters's Ad. Decis., LXXI; Spelman Reliq. Adm. Juris., 226;
2 Hale. P. C., 16) belonging to the "high seas"-the "main
sea" of Coke and Hale, and Selden and Blackstone, which
does not belong to the Western lakes. How, then, can their
navigation be termed inland? Would the navigation of such
waters be termed inland, within the meaning of the statutes
of Geo. II and Geo. III? Would the navigation of the waters
of the "four seas," (Hargrave and Butler's Notes to Coke upon

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

29

Moore et al. v. American TransportationCo.

Litt., L. 2, c. 8, sec. 157; Chitty on Commercial Law, 88102) including St. George's channel or the Irish se .bf.
deemed "iiland" by an English court, construing the language in question as used in the statutes of Geo. HI?
5. Some minor considerations will show, in this connection,
that such navigation cannot be called inland.
By the law of nations, exclusive national jurisdiction, for
certain purposes, is established over at least a marine league
from the coast.
1 Kent's Com., 27, 28.
The whole of Delaware bay has be.en determined to be
within national jurisdiction.
Opinion of Edmulid Randolph, Attorney General U. S , 1
Opinion Att. Gen., 13.
The navigation of none of these waters would be termed
"inland;" yet it should be, if the Western lakes are "inland."
6. Regarding the language in question, then, beneath all
the lights which can be thrown upon it, it must be determined
that the navigation in question is not "inland." This, a single
question, intelligently put and answ~ered-pdit and answered
with full comprehension of the meaning of all things relating
to this commercial and legal subject-must determine "in'
land." Within -what land do these waters lie? That.question
would hardly be put upon some of the ships and steamboats
upon the Western lakes, with nothing in sight above the -horizon, nor within 'many leagues, unless it might be other ships
employed in commerce between different States and Provinces,
and (through the Welland Canal, which, overcoming the natural obstacle of Niagara Falls, has thus given access to the high
seas through those public means, .which Sir Matthew Hale
says-Do Port. Maris, c.,.-render waters thus opened to
public trade, public waters,) with European kingdoms.
IV. The object of the law determines the fact that the navigation of the lakes is not "inland," within the meaning of
the act.
1. In ascertaining the object of the law, the court cannot,
in the language of Chief Justice Taney, in any degree, be
influenced by the construction placed upon it by individual

SUPREME COURT.Mfoore et al. v. American Trans'portationCo.

members of Congress in the debates which took place on its
passage. "We must gather the ilntention of Congress from
the languhge used in the law, comparing it, where ambiguity
exists, with the laws upon the same subject, and looking, if
necessary, to the public history of the times in which it was
passed."
Aldridge v. Williams, 3 Howard, 1, 24.
Bank of Penn. v. the Commonwealth, 7 (Harris) Penn.
R., 144.
Southwark Bank v. the Commonwealth, 26 Penn. State
R., 240.
2. In determining whether the objects of the law would
necessarily make it apply to the navigation of the Western
lakes, it is, of course, necessary to ascertain something of the
extent of these waters, and of the commerce carried on upon
them.
The area of the lakes is some 90,000 square miles, and the
aggregate length of the lakes alone exceeds 1,500 miles.
Andrews's Rep. on Colonial and Lake Trade, communicated to the Senate Aug. 26, 1852.
The value of the property annually carried in the transactions of the lake commerce exceeds $600,000,000, (exceeding
the total value of property exported and imported into the
United States in its foreign trade.) It is conducted in more
than 1,600 vessels, with an aggregate burden exceeding
400,000 tons.
Report of Com. on Cpmmerce to H. of R., 1856, vol. 3,
No. 316, pp. 9, 10, 11.
Report Hon. I. T. Hatch, Commissioner, &c., to H. of
IR., June 18, 1860.
The strictly foreign trade wifl Canada alone on the lakes
exceeds $30,000,000 in amount, annually, making our strictly
foreign commerce with Canada third in actual value, and first
in the amount of tonnage employed, compared with our-commerce with all the foreign countries with which we have any
trade.
Report of Com. on Commerce, 1856, pp. 10, 12.
3. Considering, therefore, the undoubted objects of the act,

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Mloore di al. v. American TransportationCo.

(Point First, IT, 6,) the immediate cause.which led to the
passage of the act, the loss of the Lexington, running in the
coasting trade, like the vessels on the Western lakes,- (Point
First, H1, 8,) the extent of the waters on which this commerce
is conducted, the extent and national importance of that commerce itself, it certainly must be apparent that the promotion
of such a commerce must have been within the objects of the
act.
V. Our whole system of statutory law in reference to the
coasting trade establishes the fact that such a trade has never
been regarded as "inland" in its character.
1. The whole system of these provisions is thus generally
regarded.
2 Kent's Com., 599, 600.
Elliott v. Rossel, 10 J. R., 10, 11.
2. The whole spirit of express legislation on these subjects
shows such to be the fact.
- The ordinance of 1787 dedicates these waters as public highways to the commerce of the States, and says they "shall be
common highways, and forever free, as well to the inhabitants
of the Territory as to the citizens of the United States, and
those of any -other States which may be admitted into the
Confederacy."
Ordinance 1787, 1 Stat. at L., 52, note.
The act of 1793 in respect to the enrollment of vessels, (1
Stat. atL., 307;) the act of 1831, conferring enlarged privileges
upon enrolled vessels on the Northwestern frontier, (4 Stat. at
L., 487;) the steamboat inspection acts of 1838 (5 Stat. at L.,
305) and of 1852, (10 Stat. at L., 62;) the act of 1850, requiring transfers of vessels to be recorded, (9 Stat. at L., 440;)
the act of 1845, giving the District Courts jurisdiction of admiralty cases, (5 Stat. at L., 726) -- all evidently regard the
coasting trade of the lakes as the same in character with that
of the seaboard.
This act has been expressly held to apply to vessels employed in the coasting trade on the seaboard.
Watson v. Marks, 2d vol. Law Reg., 157, U.' S District
Court, E. Dist. Pennsylvania.

SUPREME COURT.
Moore et al. v. American TransportationCo.

Can any reason be discovered why it should not as well
apply to a vessel enrolled and licensed under the same laws,
and employed in the same trade, upon another "coast"
(Champlain and W. L. R. R. Co. v. Valentine, 19 Barbour, 484)
of the country?
When this act of 1851 was passed, all thes6 laws-the law
of 1845, conferring jurisdiction in admiralty cases on the
-lakes to the District Courts, as well as the others-were in
force. Can it be supposed, that if it was the intent of Congress to exclude the commerce of the lakes from the operation
of such a law, that intent, under all the circumstances, would
not have been plainly expressed?
VI. Admiralty jurisdiction, it was held in the Genesee Chief
case, extends over the Western lakes. They cannot, therefore,
be "inland."
1. In the Genesee Chief case, the court held (in accordanc
with that opinion of Chief Justice Marshall, which he said
was one of the most deliberate of his life-Van Santvoord's
Lives of the Chief Justices, 444,) that admiralty jurisdiction
extended over the great Western lakes, within the meaning
of the phrase "admiralty and maritime jurisdiction" in the
Constitution, (art. 3, sec. 2,) from the commercial and national
character of those waters, and the character of the trade conducted upon them.
Fitzhugh v. the Genesee Chief, 12 Howard, 443.
The Chas. Mears, 1 Newberry, 197.
Woolrych's Law of-Waters, (Law Library,) 62.
2. Admiralty jurisdiction was never held, and, regarding
the remedies administered under it, never could have been
held, to extend over "inland navigation."
1 Curtis's Juris..Courts U. S., 34, 48.
De Loviot v. Boit,'2 Gallison, 398, 436, 468, and authorities
cited.
This may especially be said, under the recent decisions,
that admiralty jurisdiction does not include matters relating
to transactions taking place within the limits of a single State.
Allen v. Newbury, 21 How., 244.
Maguire v. Card, 21 How., 248.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Moore ctal. v. American Transportation Co.

3. It therefore may be claimed that the phrase "inland navigation" was advisedly, or at least fortunately, used in the
act. Its use enables the act to be applied wherever it in principle should apply; that is, wherever admiralty jurisdiction
extends.
How, it may be asked, would a decision of this court, that
this act does not apply to the- lakes, stand on principle, in
comparison with the decision in the case of the Genesee Chief?
VII. Congress intended, by the phrase "inland navigaition;."
simply to exclude from the operation of the act only such
places as it could not, under the Constitution, exercise such
power over.
1. Congress has no power, under the Constitution, to legislate as to the commerce carried on within the bounds of any
one State.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 1, 195.
Steamboat Co. v. Livingston, 3 Cowen, 713, 755.
The object of the concluding paragraph of sec. 7 of the act,
therefore, doubtless is expressly to provide that the act shall
not apply where Congress has no power to make it apply.
Similar rhstrictive phrases are commonly used in statutes, ex
abundanti eautela.
2. Congress has the constitutional power to exercise legislation ov&r the Western lakes.
Fitzhugh v. the Genesee Chief, 12 How., 448.
See Point Third.
Therefore, as the act applies in all cases except where its
ow-n limitations provide it shtll not apply, it must apply to
those waters.
3. Had it been the intent of the act that it sho uld not apply
to any of the lakes, the words "rivers and lakes" would have
been used. As it is, it uses the term "inland navigation,"
and so uses it in the\meaning given it by the courts-=the
navigation of waters within the bounds of a single State over
which Congress has no control.
Steamboat Co. v. Livingston, 3 Cow., 755.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 194.
VOL. XXIV.- -

SUPREME COURT.
More et al. v. American TransportationCo.

The steamboat James Morrison, 1 N ewberry's Admiralty
R., 241, 246.
4. Must this not be clearly so, when the act is considered
under the rule that statutes which favor commerce are to be
liberally construed, and those parts which restrict it must be
strictly construed ?
Sewell v. Jones, 9 Pick., 412, 414.
Must it not be clearly so, under the rule, that excepting
clauses in a statute are always strictly construed? "For it is
a maxim," says Justice Story, "in the interpretation of statutes, that when the enacting clause is general in its language
and objects, and a proviso is afterwards introduced, that proviso is construed strictly, and takes no case out of the enacting
clause which does not fall plainly within its terms. In short,
a proviso carves special exceptions only out of the enacting
clause; and those who set up any such exceptions, must establish it as being within the words as well as the reasons
thereof."
The U. S. v. Dicl ., 15 Peters, 141, 165.
[The remaining points of Mr. Hfibbard's argument are
omitted, for want of room.]
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Michigan.
The suit was brought by the plaintiffs in the court below
against the defendants, a company incorporated under the
laws of New York, and owners of the steam propeller M. B.
Spaulding.
The goods in question were put on board of the propeller
at Buffalo, on the 30th October, 1856, for transportatiot to
Detroit, and on the next day they took fire, and vessel and
goods were entirely consumed, without any default or negligence of the master or crew, or any knowledge .of the -defendants, their officers or agents. The propeller was of more than
twenty tons burden, and was enrolled and licensed for the
coasting trade, and engaged ih navigation and commerce; as a

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
.Mooree al. v. American Transportation Co.

common carrier, between ports and places in different States
upon the lakes, and navigable waters connecting the same.
The defendants relied, in their defence, upon the -act of
Congrdss, passed March 3d, 1851, entitled "an act to limit the
liability of ship owners, and for other purposes."
The 1st section provides-that no owner of any ship or vessel
shall be liable to answer for any loss or damage which may
happen to any goods or merchandise which shall be shipped
on board any such ship or vessel, by reason of any fire happening on board the same, unless such fire is caused by design
or nIeglect of such owner, with a proviso that the parties may
-make such contract between themselves on the subject as they
please.
The 2d section provides against any liability of the owner
of the vessel, in case of precious metals, &c., unless notice and
entry on the bill of landing.
The 3d section provides against liability of the owner, in
cases of embezzlement or loss, &c., by the master, officers, &c.,
of any property shipped on board, or for any loss by collision,
&c., without the privity or knowledge of the owner, exceeding
the value of his interest in the ship and freight.
The 4th section provides for an apportionment of the proceeds, in case of the sale of the vessel, among the several
freighters or owners of the goods, if these and the freight
should not be sufficient to pay each loss.
The 6th section saves the remedy against the master and
hands, in case of embezzlement or loss; or for any negligence
or malversation by these persons.
The 7th section, after providing a penalty -fox shipping oil
of vitriol, and such dangerous materials, without notice to the
master, is as follows: "This act shall not apply to the owner or
owners of any canal boat, barge, or lighter, or to any vessel.of
any description whatsoever, used in rivers or inland navigation."
, It is insisted, on the part ot the plaintits, that the navigation
of Lake Erie, and also of all the other lakes in connection
therewith, is within the exception to this act, as falling within
the words "inland navigation." The question thus raised is

SUPREME (OURT.
Moore et al. v. American TransportationC:

not without difficulty, as we have no clear or certain guide to
lead us to the true meaning attached to these words by Congress. Looking at them in a very generi1 soise, and withoui
much regard to the reasons or policy of the law, it may, with
some plausibility, be urged, as has been on behalf of the
plaintiffs, that the phrase "inland navigation" was used as
contradistinguished from navigation upon the ocean; and that
all vessels navigating waters within headlands, and after they
have passed out of the ocean, come within the designation.
But a construction thus broad can hardly be maintained, for
it would be unreasonable to suppose that Congress intended
to apply one rule of responsibility to the owner in respect to
the same vessel upon the ocean, and another upon the baya
or rivers, in the course of the same voyage. Besides the
absence 6f any good reason for such a distinction as to the
rule of regponsibility, it would have seriously embarrassed arl
parties engaged ii commerce of this description in respect tc
their securities against accidents, and losses by means of in.
surance, bills of lading, charter-parties, &c.
The connection in which this term "inland navigation" is
used in the act, we think, may throw some light upon the
intent of the law-makers.
Itis declared, that the act shall not apply to the owner of
any canal-boat, barge, or lighter, or to any vessel of any description used in rivers or inland navigation. It will be seen, that
certain craft is excepted from the act eo nonti-ne, and then a
class of vessels without any designation, other than by a reference to the waters or locality in which used. But the character
of the craft enumerated may well serve to indicate to some
extent, and with some reason, the class of vessels in the mind
of the law-makers, which are designated by the place where
employed. This class may well be regarded ejusdem gencris,
and thus aid us in interpreting the true meaning of the words
of the act, namely, vessels "used in rivers or inland navigation."
Many of the provisions of this act were taken from the 53
Oeo. 3, c. 159, as also the exceptibn to the enacting clause.
The except'on in the English act is as follows: that nothing

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Moore et aZ. v. American Tranwortation, Co.

in this act shall extend to the owner of any "lighter, barge,
boat, or vessel of any description whatsoever, used solely in
rivers or inland navigation."
The language of this exception is more specific than that
used in ours; but the meaning intended to be conveyed, we
think substantially the same. The ivords in ours are, "any
vessel of any description whatsoever, USED in rivers or inland
navigation." This word used means, in the connection found,
enzployed, and doubtless, in the mind of Congress, was intended
to refer to vessels solely employed in rivers or inland navigation. It was this species of navigation-that is, on rivers and
inland-which was intended to be withdrawn from the limitation of the liability of the owner; and the addition of the
term "inland navigation," as an alternative to rivers, was
doubtless designed, speaking in a general sense, to embrace
all internal waters, either connected with riveis, but which did
not, in a geographical or popular sense, fall under that name,
or which might not be connected with rivers, but fell within
the reason or policy of the exception, such as bays, inlets,
straits, &c. Vessels, whatever may be their class or description, solely employed upon these waters, are usually employed
in the trade and traffic of the localities, carried on chiefly by
persons residing upon their borders, and connected with the.
local business, and without the formalities and precautions ob,,erved in regular commercial pursuits, with a view to guard
against accidents and losses, such as insurance, bills of lading,
&c. It was fit and proper, therefore, in this description of
trade and traffic, that the common-law liabilities of the carrier
should remain unaltered.
But the business upon the great lakes lying upor our
Northern frontiers, carried on between the States, ai-d with
the foreign nation with which they are connected, (and this is
the only business which Congress can regulate, or with which
we are dealing,) is of a very different character. They form a
boundary between this foreign country and the United States
for a distance of some twelve hundred miles, and are of an
average width of at least one hundred miles; and this, without including Lake Michigan, of itself three hundred and fifty

SUPREME COURT.,
Afoore et al. v. American Transportation Co.

miles in length, and ninety in breadth, which lies wholly
within the United States. The aggregate length of these
lakes is over fifteen hundred miles, and the area covered by
their waters is said to be some ninety thousand square miles.
The commerce upon them corresponds with their magnitude.
According to the best official statistics, the value of the
property annually, the subject of this commerce, exceeds
$600,000,000, employing more than sixteen hundred vessels,
with an aggregate tonnage exceeding four hundred thousand
tons. These vessels are duly licensed for the foreign trade, as
well as for that carried oil coastwtie. This commerce, from
its magnitude, and the well-known perils incident to the lake
navigation, deserves to be placed on the footing of commerce
on the ocean; and, we think, in view of it, Congress could
not have classed it with the business upon rivers, or inland
navigation, in the sense in which we understand these terms.
These lakes are usually designated by public men and
jurists, when speaking of them, as great inland waters, inland
seas, or great lakes; and, if Congress intended to have excluded them from the limitation of the liabilities of owners,
it would have been most natural and reasonable, and, indeed,
almost a matter of course, to have referred to them by a more
specific'designation.
The decision in the case of the Lexington, which was
burned upon Long Island Sound, led to this act of 1851. That
case was decided in 1848, subjecting the carrier in case of a
loss by fire. (6 How., 344.)
The Sound is but one hundred and ten miles in length, and
from two to twenty in breadth.
The waters of these lakes, in the aggregate, exceed those of
the Baltic, the Caspian, or the Black sea, and approach in
magnitude those of the Mediterranean. Theyexceed those of
the Red sea, the North sea or German ocean, the sea of
Marmora, and of Azoff. And, like the lakes, all of these
seas, with the exception of the North sea, are tideless. The
marine disasters upon these lakes, in consequence of the few
natural harbors for the shelter of vessels, and the consequent
losses of life and property, are immense. According to the

DECEMBER TERM, 1860. -

89

foore et al. v. American T'aWsortation Co.

report of a committee in the House. of Representatives in
1856, the derstruction of property upon Lake Michigan in the
year 1855 exceeded $1,000,000. The appalling destruction of
life in the loss of the Erie upon Lake Erie, and of the Superior
and Lady Elgin upon Michigan, are still fresh in the recollections of the country. The policy and justice of the limitation of the liability of the owners, under this act of 1851, are
as applicable to this navigation as to that of the ocean. The
act was designed to promote the building of ships, and to
encourage persons engaged in the business of navigation, and
to place that of this country upon a7 footing with England-and
on the continent of Europe. The act not only exempts the
owner from the casualty of fire, but limits his liability in cases
of embezzlement or loss of goods on board by the master,
officers, &c., and also for loss or damage from collisions, and,
indeed, for any loss or damage occurring without the privity
of the owner, to an" amouit not exceeding. the value of the
vessel and freight.
It has been suggested that our construction of the act may
embrace within the limitation of the liability of the owners
Western lakes lying within a State, such as the Cayuga'
Seneca, and the like. But the answer is, that commerce updn
these lakes, and all others similarly situated, is not within
the regulation of Congress. The act can apply to vessels only
which are engaged in foreign commerce, and commerce between the States. The purely internal commerce and navigation of a State is exclusively under State regulation.
.We think the court below was right, and that the judgment
should be affirmed.
Mr. Jutice CATRON dissenting.
By the common law of England ship owners were common
carriers, and insurers against loss, of the goods shipped, without limitation as to the waters upon which the ships were
navigated. Abbott on Shipping, 395. In the United States
the same law governed. 2-Kent's Com., 599. N. J. S. lav.
Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 How., 384. In parts of continental
Europe the law was different. The preamble of the British

SUPREME COURT.
Hoore et al. v. Amrican 1ransportationCo.

act of 7 Geo. 3d, declares, "that it was pf the greatest consequence and importance to the kingdom to promote and increase the number of ships and vessels, and to prevent any
discouragement to merchants, and others, from being interested and concerned therein." The object of the British legislation was "to encourage persons to become owners of ships."
By the act of Geo. 2d, and others, the Parliament exempted
ship owners from liability in several cases of loss, and among
them, loss by fire. That these laws applied to commerce on
the ocean, is not controverted. Nor are they in force on the
great lakes, partly belonging to Great Britain, on this continent.
Our act of Congress of March 3, 1851, was passed to put
our commercial marine on an equal footing with that of Great
Britain; so that the increase of the number of ships, and the
navigation of them, might be equally encouraged. That competition with British shipping was the object of Congress, is
manifest to my mind from the fact that the provisions of our
statute correspond to British statutes. As there wAs no
competition on our lakes, great or small, there was no reason
for exempting owners of vessels from liability; and especially,
for the reason that a vessel navigating a lake from one port
to another, in the same State, is not within the act; as Congress could only legislate by force of the commercial power,
and regulate commerce among the States. The act of 1851
does not in terms, nor by any fair intendment, as I think,
a'± mpt to regulate such internal commerce. Fearing, however, that it might be held to apply to actual navigation, an
exception was appended to the act, declaring that it should
,iot apply to owners of canal boats, nor to lighters or barges,
This description of vessels were brought into, or used, in harbors and bays; and these being arms of the sea might be held
as coming within the provisions of the act of Congress, the
commerce they were engaged in being connected with that
on the ocean. The commerce on the Chesapeake, through
the tide-water canal, into the Delaware, by vessels propelled
by steam, and the commerce carried on through the Hudson,
into New York harbor, by canal boats and barges, shows the

DECEMBBER TERM, 1860.
.ons" v. S ozard.

reason why the excepti6n was made, .as respects this class of
vessels.
And then comes the. exception, of vessels that had no connection with commerce on the-oqean, which declares, that the
act shall not apply'to any vessel, of any description whatsoever, used in rivers, or used in inland navigation. Why
should navigation on the Mississippi and the St. Lawrence
be governed by one law, and the great lakes. Green bay,
Lake Champlain, Great Salt lake, Utah lake, and many
others, by *another rule of liability? Congress has made no
such distinction; but on the contrary, every section and clause
of the act of 1851 refer to losses happening on, or to vessels
navigating, the ocean. The third section is especially significant of this conclusion.
What the expression, "inland navigation," means, mustbe
ascertained from the geography of our own country, and the
commerce carried on by vessels on its waters. Lake Erie is
inland, and a voyage from Buffalo to Detroit is, in my judgment, "inland navigation." I am, therefore, 9f the opinion
that the judgment should be reversed.

BRADDOCK JONZES, PLAINTIFF im ERROR, V. JAMES

G. SOULARD.

The eastern line of the city of St Louis, as it was incorporated in 1809, is as
follows: from the Sugar loaf due east to the Mississippi; "from thence, by
the Mississippi, to the place first mentioned."
This last call made the city a riparian proprietor upon the Mississippi, and, ns
such, it was entitled to all accretions as far out as the middle thread of the
stream.
rhis rule, so well established as to fresh-water rivers generally, is not varied by
the circumstance that the Mississippi, at St. Louis, is a great and public watercourse. The rule with respect to tide-water rivers, where the tide ebbs and
flows, does not apply to the present case.
rherefore, Duncan's island, upon which was the land in dispute, and which became connected with the shore as fast land, was included in a grant made by
Congress, in 1812, to the town of St. Louis, for the public schools; and it
neither passed to the State of Missouri by her admission into the Union, in
1820, n6r by the, act of Congress passed in 1851.

