THE JOHN G. STEVENS.
Statement of the Case.

of their right to invoke the jurisdiction of the national courts
under the Constitution and laws of the United States.
The necessary conclusion is that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to try the action and to render judgment therein
against the defendant, and that the
Question certified must be answered in the affirmative.

'THE JOHN G. STEVENS.
CERTIFICATE

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND .CIRCUIT.

No. 25. Argued January 27, 169T. -Decided

April 18, 1898.

A collision between two vessels by the fault of one of them creates a maritime lien upon her for the damages to the other,which is to be preferred,
in-admiralty, to a lien for previous supplies.
A lien upon a tug, for damages to her tow by negligent towage bringing the
tow into collision with a third vessel, is to be preferred, in admiralty
to a lien for supplies previously furnished to the tug in her home port.

a pending appeal in admiralty by Edward H. Loud and
others, owners of the schooner C. R. Flint, from a decree of
the Di~trict Court of the United States for the Eastern District of New York in favor of Frederick H. Gladwish and
others, coal merchants under the name Gladwish, Moquin &
Company, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
certified to this court a question of the priority of maritime
lines on the steamtug John G. Stevens, arising, as the certificate stated, upo, the following facts:
"The home port of the tug was New York.- Between
December .7, 1885, and M arch 7, 1886, Gladwish, M'oquin &
Company furnished coal to the tug in her home port, and filed
notices of liens therefor under the laws of the State of New
York of 1862, chapter 482, thereby creating statutory liens on
her. On March 8, 1886, the'tug John G. Stevens was employed in the port of New York to tow the schooner C. R.
IN

VOL. CLXX-8

OCTOBER TER,TI 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Flint through the waters of said port, and, while towing,
negligently allowed the C. R. Flint to collide with the bark
Doris Eckhoff in tow of the tug .R. S. Carter.
" On March 16, 1886, Loud and others, owners of the 0. R.
Flint, libelled the John' G. Stevens and the R. S. Carter in
admiralty, in the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York, for the collision damage. On
March 16, 1886, Gladwish and others libelled the John G.
Stevens, in the same court, to enforce their supply lien under
the state law. The Loud libel resulted in a decree condemning both tugs for damages exceeding $15,000. The Gladwish
libel resulted in a decree condemning the John G. Stevens for
the coal supplied, and costs, in all $218.07.
"The District Court awarded priority to the supply lien,
which exhausts the fund resulting from the sale of the John
G. Stevens, leaving the Loud decree unsatisfied." 58 Fed.
Rep. 792.
Upon these facts, the Circuit Court of Appeals desired the
instruction of this court upon this question of law: "Is the
lien for the damages occasioned by negligent towage, which
arose on March 8, 1886, to be preferred to the previous state
lien for supplies, the libel for supplies being flied last?"
-Mr. HarringtonPutnan for, appellants.
MI.. ilfark Ash and Mr. J. Parker Erlirn for appellees.
ir. J. -H. Lichliter was on Mr. Ash's brief.
MR.

JUSTrCE

GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The question presented by this record is whether a lien
upon a tug, for damages to her tow by negligent towage
bringing the tow into collision with a -third vessel, is to be
preferred, in admiralty, to a statutory lien for supplies furnished to the tug in her home port before the collision.
This question may be conveniently divided, in its consideration by the court, as it was in the arguments at the bar, into

THE JOHN G. STEVENS.
Opinion of the Court.

two parts: First. Is a claim in tort for damages by a collision
entitled to priority over a claim in contract for previous
supplies? Second. Is a claim by a tow against her tug, for
damages from coming into collision with a third vessel by
reason of negligent towage, a claim in tort?
In the case of The Bold Buccleugh, 7 Moore P. C. 267,
decided in 1852 by the Judicial Committee of the Privy
Council, upon appeal from the English High Court of Admiralty, and ever since considered a leading case, both in England and in America, it was adjudged that a collision between
two ships by the negligence of one of them created a maritime
lien upon or privilege in the offending ship, for the damage
done to the other, which attached at the time of the collision,
and might be enforced in admiralty by proceedings in ,rem
against the offending ship, even in the hands of a bona fide
purchaser; and Chief Justice Jervis, in delivering judgment,
said: "A maritime lien does not include or require possession.
The word is used in maritime law, not in the strict legal sense
in which we understand it in courts of common law, in which
case there could be no lien where there was no possession,
actual or constructive; but to express, as if by analogy, the
nature of claims which neither presuppose nor originate in
possession." "This claim or privilege travels with the thing,
into whosesoever .possession it may come. It is inchoate
from the moment the claim or privilege attaches, and when
carried into effect by legal process, by a proceeding in rem,
And,
relates back to the period when it first attached."
illustrated
better
be
after observing that this rule could not
than by the circumstances of The Alne, (1839) 1 W.-Rob. 111
which Dr. Lushington had expressed the opinion that,
-in
in a proceeding in rem, the claim for damages must be preferred to a bottomry bond given before the collision; but was
not entitled, as-against the holder of a-like bond given after
the collision, to the increased value -of the vessel by reason of
repairs effected at his cost- Chief Justice Jervis summed up
the matter as follows: "The interest of the first .bondholder
taking"effect from the period when his lien attached, he was,
-so to:speak, a part owner in interest ;at the date of the colli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

sion, and the ship in which he and others were interested was
liable to its value at that date for the injury done, without
reference to his claim. So, by the collision, the interest of
the claimant attached, and dating from that event, the ship
in which he was interested having been repaired, was put in
bottomry by the master acting for all parties, and he would
be bound by that transaction. This rule, which is simple and
intelligible, is, in our opinion, applicable to all cases." 7 Moore
P. 0. 284, 285.
The decision in The Bold Buccleugh has never been departed from in England,. but has been constantly recognized
as sound law in the courts exercising admiralty jurisdiction.
The Europa, Brown. & Lush. 89, 91, 97; S.. 2 Moore P. C.
(N. S.) 1, 20; The Charles Amelia, L. R.2 Ad & Ec. 330, 333;
The City of lecca, 6 P. D. 106, 113, 119; Thie Rio Tinto, 9
App. Cas. 356, 360; The -Dictator,(1892) P. D. 304, 320.
And in a very recent case in the House of Lords, that decision has been deliberately and finally declared to have established beyond dis)ute, in the maritime law of Great'Britain,
that a collision between two vessels by the fault of one of
them creates a maritime lien on her for the damage done to
the other. Currie v. .,clfiight, (1897) App. Cas. 97.
It has been generally laid down in the English text books
that a maritime lien for damages by a collision takes precedence of all earlier maritime liens founded in contract,
Abbott on Shipping, (Shee's ed.) pt. 6, c. 4, § 2; Coote's
Admiralty Practice, 118; Maclachlan on Shipping, c. 15
Foard on Shipping 217; Marsden on Collisions, (3d e(l.) 82.
And the English and Irish courts have even held that a claim
for damages from a collision by the negligence of a foreign
ship creates a lien upon the whole value of the ship and
freight, without deduction for seamen's wages, because, it
has been said, the owner of the ship, being personally liable
to the seamen for their wages, should not be permitted to
deduct expenses for which he is liable, and thus lUenefit the
wrongdoer at the expense of him to whom the wrong has
been done. The Elin, 8 P. D. 39, 129, and cases there cited.
That a claim for supplies furnished to a vessel should be

THE JOHN G. STEVENS.
Opinion of the Court.

preferred to a claim for damages for a subsequent collision
appears never to have been even suggested in England, probably because, by the law of England, material-men, without
possession, have no maritime lien for supplies, even to a foreign ship, but a mere right to seize the ship by process in
admiralty, in the nature of an attachment. The Rio Tinto,
9 App. Gas. 356; The Henriah Bjdrn, t10 P. D. 44, and 11
App. Cas. 270. "Claims for necessaries," said Dr. Lushington, "do not possess, ab origine,a lien; but carry only a statutory remedy against the res, which is essentially different."
The Gustaf, Lush. 506, 508.
There can be no doubt, therefore, that in the English admiralty courts the lien for damages by collision would take precedence of an earlier claim for supplies.
In this country, the principle, applied in the case of The
Bold Buccleugh to a claim for damages by collision, that a
maritime lien is created as soon as the claim comes into being,
has long been held to be equally applicable to all claims, which
can be enforced in admiralty against the ship, whether arising
out of tort or of contract. General Ins. Co. v. Sherwood, 14
How. 351, 363; The Creole, 2 Wall. Jr. 485, 518; The
Alayurka, 2 Curtis, 72, 77; The Young -Mechanic, 2 Curtis,
404; The Ifiersage, 2 Curtis, 421 ; The Yankee Blade, 19 How.
82, 89; The Rock Island Bridge, 6 Wall. 213, 215; The
China, '7 Wall. 53, 68; The Siren, 7 Wall. 152, 155; The
Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 579;, The J. E. Rumbell, 148 U. S.
1, 10, 11, 20; The Glide, 167 U. S. 606.
Accordingly, in our own law, it is well established that a
maritime lien or privilege, constituting a present right of property in the ship, jus in re, to be afterwards enforced in admiralty by process in rem, arises, not. only from a collision and
for the damages caused thereby; General Ins. Co. v. Sherwood, The Rock Island Bridge, The Siren and The China,
above cited; but also for necessary supplies or repairs furnished to a vessel, whether under the general maritime law
in a foreign port, or according to a local statute in her home
port. The Young Mechanic, The. Kiersage, The Lottawanna,
The J E. Rumbell and The Glide, above cited.

OCTOBER TERiV,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

Some years before the decision in The Bold fBuccleugh, Mr.
Justice Story had clearly recognized the existence of a maritime lien, as well for damages by collision; The .JIalek Adhel,
2 How. 210, 234; as for supplies in a foreign port, regarding
which he observed: "A material-man, who furnishes supplies
in a foreign port, or to a foreign ship, relies on the ship itself
as his security. He may, if he pleases, insist upon a bottomry
bond with maritime interest, as the security for his advances;
in which case, he gives credit exclusively to the ship, and must
take upon himself the risk of a successful accomplishment of
the voyage. But if he is content with receiving the amount
of his advances and common interest, he may rely on that
tacit lien or claim, which the maritime law gives him upon
the ship itself, in addition to the personal security of the
owners. Wherever a lien or claim is given upon the thing
by the maritime law, the admiralty will enforce it by a proceeding in r'em; and, indeed, it is the only court competent
to enforce it." Thte .Nestor, 1 Sumner, 73, 78. And it is
worthy of note that the last part of this observation was
quoted and relied on in the judgment in The Bold Buccleugh.
7 Moore P. 0. 284.
By our law, then, a claim for damages by collision, and a
claim for supplies, are -both maritime liens. The question of
their comparative rank is now for the first time presented to
this court for adjudication; and it has been the subject of
conflicting decisions in other courts of the United States, and
especially in those held within the State of New York.
in The America, (1853) J adge Hall, in the Northern District of New York, appears to have held liens for collisions
and those for supplies to be of equal rank, without regard to
the date when they attached to the ship. 16 Law Reporte,-,
264. A claim for damages by collision has been postponied to
an earlier claim for supplies, by Judge Brown, in the Southern
District of New York, in T/te Amos D. Carver, 35 Fed. Rep.
665; but has been preferred to such a claim, by Judge Benedict, in .the Eastern District of New York. and by Mr. Justice
Blatchford on appeal, in Tte . S. Carter & The John G.
Stevens, '8 Fed. Rep. 515, and 40 Fed. Rep. 331. And, in an

THE JOHN G. STEVENS.
Opinion of the Court.

earlier case, a claim for collision had been allowed by Judge
Benedict a like preference over a previous bottomry bond.
The Pride of the Ocean, 3 Fed. Rep. 162.
The preference due to the lien for damages from collision,
over earlier claims founded on contract, has been carried so
far as to allow the lien for damages to prevail over the claim
of seamen for wages earned before the collision, by Judge
Lowell, in the District of Massachusetts, in The Enterprise,
1 Lowell, 455; by Judge Nixon, in the District of New Jersey, in The Maria & Elizabeth, 12 Fed. Rep. 627; by Judges
Gresham and Jenkins, in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit, in The F. H. Stanwood, 9 U. S. App. 15;
and by Judge Swan, in the Eastern District of Michigan, in
The .Nettie Woodward, 50 Fed. Rep. 224. The opposite view
has been maintained, in the Southern District of New York,
by Judge Choate, in The Orient, 10 Benedict, 620, as well as
by Judge Brown, in The Amos D. Carver, 35 Fed. Rep. 665,
above cited; and in the Eastern District of New York, by
Judge Benedict, in The Samuel J. Christian, 16 Fed. Rep.
796; and in the Western District of Michigan, by Judge
Severens, in The Daisy Day, 40 Fed. Rep. 538.
The case at bar, however, presents no question of the comparative rank of seamen's wages, which may depend upon
peculiar considerations, and which, according to the favorite
saying of Lord Stowell and of Mr. Justice Story, are sacred
liens, and, as long as a plank of the ship remains, the sailor is
entitled, against all other persons, to the proceeds as a security
for his wages. The Madonna D'Idra, 1 Dodson, 37, 40; The
Sydney Cove, 2 Dodson, 11, 13; The Nreptune, 1 llagg. Adm.
227, 239; S]heppard v. Taylor, 5 Pet. 675, 710; Brown v.
Lull, 2 Sumner, 443, 452; Pitman v. Hoover, 3 Sumner, 50,
58; Abbott on Shipping, pt. 4, c. 4,.§ 8; 3 Kent Com. 197.
Yet see Norwich Co. v. Wright, 13 Wall. 104, 122.
Nor does this case present any question between successive liens for repairs or supplies, the general rule as to which
is that they are to be paid in inverse order, because it is for
the benefit'of all the interests in the ship that sh, shouild be
kept in condition to be navigated. Abbott on Shipping, pt. 2,

OCTOBER TERMT,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

c. 3, § 32; TIte St. Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheat. 409, 416; TheJ. E
IRumbell, 148 U. S. 1, 9; The Fanny, 2 Lowell, 508, 510.
Nor does it present a question of precedence between two
claims for distinct and successive collisions, as to which there
has been a difference of opinion in the Southern District of
New York; Judge Choate, in the District Court, giving the
preference to the later claim, upon the ground that the interest created in the vessel by the first collision was subject, like
all other proprietary interests in her, to the ordinary marine
perils, including the second collision; and Mr. Justice Blatchford, in the Circuit Court., reversing the decree, because the
vessel libelled had not been benefited, but had been injured,
by the second collision. Tike Frank- G. Fowle,, 8 Fed. Rep.
331, and 17 Fed. Rep. 653.
Nor yet does it present the question whether a lien for
repairs made after the collision, so far as they increase the
value of the vessel, may be preferred to the lien for the
damages by the collision, in accordance with the Englishi
cases of TIe Aline and The Bold Buccleugh, cited at the
beginning of this opinion.
But the question we have to deal with is whether the lien
for damages by the collision is to be preferred to the lien for
supplies furnished before the collision.
The foundation of the rule that collision gives to the party
injured ajus in 'e in the offending ship is the principle of the
maritime law that the ship, by whomsoever owned or navigated, is considered as herself the wrongdoer, liable for the
tort, and subject to a maritime lien for the damages. This
principle, as has been observed by careful text writers on both
sides of the Atlantic, has been more clearly established, and
more fully carried out, in this countfy than in England.
Henry on Admiralty, § 75, note; Marsden on Collisions, (3d
ed.) 93.
The act of Congress of December 22, 1807, c. 5, laid an
embargo on all ships and vessels, within the limits and jurisdiction of the United States, bound to any foreign port or
place; and the supplemental act of January 9, 1808, § 3, provided that any ship or vessel proceeding, contrary to the provi-

THE JOHN G. STEVENS.

•121

Opinion of the Court.

sions of the act, to a foreign port or place, should be forfeited.
2 Stat. 451, 453. Upon the trial of a libel in the Circuit Court
of the United States to enforce the forfeiture of a vessel under
those acts, Chief Justice Marshall said: "This is not, a proceeding against the owner; it is a proceeding against the
vessel, for an offence committed by the vessel, which is not
less an offence, and does not the less subject her to forfeiture,
because it was committed without the authority and against
the will of the owner." The Little Charles, 1 Brock. 347, 354.
Upon a libel of information for the condemnation of a piratical vessel, under the act of Congress of March 3, 1819, c. 77,
continued in force by the act of May 15, 1820, c. 113, (3 Stat.
510, 600,) Mr. Justice Story, delivering the opinion of this
court, and referring to seizures in revenue causes, said: "The
thing is here primarily considered-as the offender, or rather
the offence is attached primarily to the thing; and this,
whether the offence be malum prohibitum or malum in se.
The same principle applies to proceedings in rem, on seizures
in the admiralty." The Palmyra, 12 Wheat. 1, 14.
In The .Malek Adhel, 2 How. 210, 233, 234, Mr. Justice
Story, in delivering judgment, stated the principle more fully,
saying : "It is not an uncommon course in the admiralty, acting under the law of nations, to treat the vessel in which or
by which, or by the master or crew thereof, a wrong or offence has been done, as the offender, without any regard
whatsoever to the personal misconduct or 'responsibility of
the owner thereof. And this is done from the necessity of
the case, as the only adequate means of suppressing the
offence or wrong, or insuring an indemnity to the injured
party." And, after quoting the passages above cited from
the opinions in The Little Charles and in Th.e Palmyra, he
added: "The ship is also, by the general maritime law, held
responsible for the torts and misconduct of the master and
crew thereof, whether arising from negligence or a wilful disregard of duty; as, for example, in cases of collision and other
wrongs done upon the high seas, or elsewhere within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, upon -the general p6licy of
that law, which looks to the instrument itself, used as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

means of the mischief, as the best and surest pledge for the
compensation and indemnity to the injured party."
In The China, 7 Wall. 53, 68, by the application of the
same principle, a ship was held liable for damages by collision
through,the negligence of a pilot whom she had been compelled by law to take on board; and Mr. Justice Swayne, in
delivering judgment, said: "The maritime law as to the position and powers of the master, and the responsibility of the
vessel, is not derived from the civil law of master and servant,
nor from the common law. It had its source in the commercial usages and jurisprudence of the middle ages. Originally,
the primary liability was upon the vessel, and that of the
owner was not personal, but merely incidental to his ownership, from which he was discharged either by the loss of the
vessel or by abandoning it to the creditors. But while the
law limited the creditor to this part of the owner's property,
it gave him a lien or privilege against it in preference to
other creditors." "According to the admiralty law, the collision impresses upon the wrongdoing vessel a maritime lien.
This the vessel carries with it into whosesoever hands it may
come. It is inchoate at the moment of the wrong, and must
be perfected by subsequent proceedings."
The same principle has been recognized in other cases. The
John Fraser,21 How. 181, 194; Thie Milerrimac, 14 Wall. 199 ;
The Clarita & The Clara, 23 Wall. 1; Ralli v. Troop, 157
U. S. 386, 402, 403.
That the maritime lien upon a vessel, for damages caused
by her fault to another vessel, takes precedence of a maritime
lien for supplies previously furnished to the offending vessel,
is a reasonable inference, if not . necessary conclusion, from
the decisions of this court, above referred to, the effect of
which may be summed up as follows:
The collision, as soon as it takes place, creates, as security
for the damages, a maritime lien or privilege, jus in re, a
proprietary interest in the offending ship, and whicb, when
enforced by admiralty process in rem, relates back to the
time of the collision. The offending' ship is considered as
herself the wrongdoer, and as herself bound to make compen-

THE JOHN G. STEVENS.
Opinion of the Court.

sation for the wrong done. The owner of the injured vessel
is entitled to proceed in rem against the offender, without regard to the question who may be her owners, or to the division, the nature or the extent of their interests in her. With
the relations of the owners of those interests, as among themselves, the owner of the injured vessel has no concern. All
the interests, existing at the time of the collision, in the
offending vessel, whether by way of part-ownership, of mortgage, of bottomry bond or of other maritime lien for repairs
or supplies, arising out of contract with the owners or agents
of the vessel, are parts of the vessel herself, and as such are
bound by and responsible for her wrongful acts. Any one
who had furnished necessary supplies to the vessel before the
collision, and had thereby acquired, under our law, a maritime
lien or privilege in the vessel herself, was, as was said in The
Bold Buccleugh, before cited, of the holder of an earlier bottoinry bond, under the law of England, "so to speak, a part
owner in interest at the date of the collision, and the ship in
which he and others were interested was liable to its value at
that date for the injury done, without reference to his claim."
7 Moore P. C. 285.
We are then brought to the question, whether a claim by
a tow against her tug, for damages from coming into collision
with a third vessel because of negligent towage, is a claim in
tort, standing upon the same ground as a olaim of the third
vessel for damages against theatug.
Upon this question, again, there have been conflicting opinions in the District Courts of the United States.
On the one hand, it has been held by Judge Benedict, in
the Eastern District of New York, in several cases, including
the case at bar, that a claim by a tow against her tug for
damages caused by the negligence of the latter is founded on
a voluntary contract between the owner of the tow and the
owner of the tug, and should be postponed to a claim against
the tug for necessary supplies or repairs furnished before the
contract of towage was made. The Samuel J. Christian, 16
Fed. Rep. 796; The John G. Stevens, 58 Fed. Rep. 792; The
Glen Iris, 78 Fed. Rep. 511. The same conclusion has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

reached by Judge Brown, in the Southern District of New
York, proceeding upon the hypothesis that the security for
the maritime obligation created by the contract of towage is
subject to all liens already existing upon the vessel, and upon
the theory that, by the general maritime law, liens ex delicto,
including all liens for damage by collision, are inferior in the
rank of privilege to liens ex con tractor. 27te Grapeshot, 22
Fed. Rep. 123; The Young America, 30 Fed. Rep. 789; The
Gratitlcle, 42 Fed. Rep. 299.
On the other hand, the claim by a tow against her tug for
damages paused by negligent towage has been held to be
founded in tort, arising out of the duty imposed by law, and
independent of any contract made, Qr consideration paid or to
be paid, for the towage, by Mr. Justice ]3latchford, when District Judge, in Tee Brooklyn, 2 'Benedict, 547, and in The
Deer, 4 Benedict, 352; by fudge Lowell, in 7/he Arturo, 6
Fed. Rep. 308; and by Judge Swing, in the Southern District
of Ohio, in Tle Ziberty, 7 Fed. Rep. 226, 230. In The Arturo,
Judge Lowell said: "These cases of tow against tug are, in
form and fact, very like collision cases. The contract gives
rise to duties very closely resembling those which one vessel
owes to others which it may meet. There is, therefore, an
analogy between the two classes of cases so close that the tow
may sue, in one proceeding for damage, her own tug and a
strange vessel with which there has been a collision." 6 Fed.
Rep. 312. And it has accordingly been held, by Judge
Nixon, and by Judge Severens, that such a claim by a tow
against her tug is entitled to priority of payment over liens
on the tug for previous repairs or supplies. The M. Vandercook, 24 Fed. Rep. 472, 478; Te Daisy Day, 40 Fed. Rep.
538.
The decisions of this court are in accordance with the latter
-view, and are inconsistent with any other.
It was argued that the liability of a tug for the loss of her
tow was analogous to the liability of a common carrier for
the loss of the goods carried. But even an action by a passenger, or by an owner of goods, against a carrier, for neglect
to carry and deliver in safety, is an action for the breach of a

THE JOHN G. STEVENS.
Opinion of the Court.

duty imposed by the law, independently of contract or of consideration, and is therefore founded in tort. Philadelphia&
Reading Railroad v. Derby, 14 How. 468, 485; Atlantic &
Pacific Railroadv. Laird, 164 U. S. 393.
In NJorwich Co. v. Wright, 13 Wall. 104, 122, Mr. Justice
Bradley, referring to Maclachlan on Shipping, (1st ed.) 598,
laid down these general propositions: "Liens for reparation
for wrong done are superior to any prior liens for money borrowed, wages, pilotage, etc. But they stand on an equality
with regard to each other if they arise from the same cause."
Although these propositions went beyond what was required
for the decision of that case, which was one of a collision between two vessels, owing to the fault of one of them, causing
the loss of her cargo, as well as of the other vessel and her
cargo, yet the very point adjudged was that the lien on the
offending vessel for the loss of her own cargo was a lien for
reparation of damage, and therefore was upon an equality
with the lien upon her for the loss of the other vessel and her
cargo.
This. court, more than once, has directly affirmed that a suit
by the owner of a tow against her tug, to recover for an injury
to the tow by negligence on the part of the tug, is a suit ex
delicto and not ex contractu.
In TIe Quickstep, 9 Wall. 665, 670, a libel by the owner of
a tow against her tug set forth a contract with the tug, for a
stipulated price, to tow directly, and a deviation and unreasonable delay in its performance, and that the tug negligently
backed into the tow and injured her. An objection that the
libel could not be maintained, because the contract alleged
was not proved, was overruled by this court. Mr. Justice
Davis, in delivering judgment, said: "The libel was not filed
to recover damages for the breach of a contract, as is contended, but to obtain compensation for the commission of a
tort. It is true it asserts a contract of towage, but this is
done by way of inducement to the real grievance complained
of, which is the wrohtg suffered by the libellant in the destruction of his boat by the carelessness and mismanagement of the
captain of the- Quickstep."

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Again, in The Syracuse, 12 Wall. 167, 171, which was a
libel by a tug against her tow for negligently bringing her
into collision with a vessel at anchor, the court, speaking by
the same justice, said: "It is unnecessary to consider the evi.
dence relating to the alleged contract of towage, because, if
it be true, as the appellant says, that by special agreement the
canal boat was being towed at her own risk, nevertheless the
steamer is liable, if, through the negligence of those in charge
of her, the canal boat suffered loss. Although the policy of
the law has not imposed on the towing boat the obligation
resting on a common carrier, it does require, on the part of
the persons engaged in her management, the exercise of reasonable care, caution and maritime skill, and if these are neglected, and disaster occurs, the towing boat must be visited
with the consequences." And see The J. P. Donaldson, 167
U. S. 599, 603.
The essential likeness between the ordinary case of a collision between two ships;and the liability of a tug to her tow
for damages caused to the latter by a collision with a third
vessel, is exemplified by the familiar practice in admiralty,
(followed in the very proceeding in which the qiiestion now
before us arose,) which allows the owner of a tow, injured by a
collision caused by the conduct of her tug and of another vessel, to sue both in one libel, and to recover against either or
both, according to the proof at the hearing. The Alabama &
The Gamecock, 92 U. S. 695; Te Atlas, 93 U. S. 302; The
,. P. Dayton, 120 U. S. 337; The 1?. S. Carter & The John
G. Stevens, 38 Fed. Rep. 515, and 40 Fed. Rep. 331.
The result of applying to the case at bar the principles
of the maritime law of the United States, as heretofore
declared by this court, is that the lien for the damages occasioned by negligent towage must be preferred to the previous
lien for supplies.
In the argument of this case, copious references were made
to foreign codes and comment ,ies, which we have not thought
it important to consider, because they differ among themselves
as to the comparative rank of various maritime liens, and because the general maritime raw is in force in this country,

LOUISVILLE WATER COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.

127

Opinion of the Court.

or in any other, so far only as administered in its courts, or
adopted by its own laws and usages. The Lottawanna, 21
Wall. 558, 572; The Belgenland, 114 U. S. 355, 369; Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 444; Ralli
v. Troop, 157 U. S. 386, 407.
Question certified answered in the affirmative.

LOUISVILLE WATER COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE CQURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 179. Argued January 11, 1898.-Decided April 11, 1898.

On the authority of Louisville Water Company v. Clark, 143 U. S. 1, which
is affirmed, it is held that the exemption from taxation acquired by the
Louisville Water Company under the act of Kentucky of April 22, 1882,
c. 1349, was not withdrawn except from the day on which the act of May
17, 1886, known as the Hewitt Act, took effect; and the company cannot
be held for taxes which were assessed and became due prior to September
14, 1886, when that act took effect.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. T. L. Burnett for plaintiff in error.
Mr. James P. Helm for defendant in error.
Bruce was with him on the brief.

Mr. -Helm

MR. JUSTIcE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought by the Commonwealth of Kentucky to enforce a lien in its favor upon certain real and
personal property of the Louisville Water Company, a Kentucky corporation; which lien, it was alleged, was for taxes
amounting to $12,875 for the year 1886. The property upon
which the State claimed this lien included the pipes, mains,
buildings, reservoirs, engines, pumping stations, etc., belonging to the Water Company.
The company denied its liability to state taxation for the
year 1886 or for any year subsequent to the 22d day of April,

