OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Order of the Court.

Carlislev. State, 32 Indiana, 55; State v. Goode, 24 Missouri,
361 ; State v. Smith, 5 Harr. 490; Barines v. State, 5 Yerg.
186 ; Covy v. State, 4 Port. 186; lFingardv. State, 13 Georgia,
396; State v. Warner, 4 Indiana, 604. Indeed, an indictment
charging the offence to have been committed in one town is
supported by proof that it was committed in a different town
within the same county, and within the jurisdiction of the
court. Commonwealth v. Tolliver, 8 Gray, 386; Commonwealth
v. Greed, 8 Gray, 387; Carliele v. State, 32 Indiana, 55; Commonwealth v. .avery, 101 Mass. 207; People v. Iloneyman, 3
Denio, 121.
We do not wish to be understood as approving the practice
that was' pursued in this case, or even as holding that this
indictment might not have been open to special demurrer for
insufficiency as to the allegations of time and place, but upon
motion in arrest of judgment we think it is sufficient.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM

THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Announced May 23,1898.

The judgment and mandate in this case, 170 U. S. 1, are amended.

this case it is ordered that the judgment and mandate
be amended so as to read as follows:
"The judgment of the Court of Claims is therefore reversed
and the cause remanded with instructions to enter a new judgment for the net amount actually received by the Government
for the Kansas lands, without interest, less any increase in
value attributable to the fact that certain of these lands were
donated for public purposes, as well as the net amount which
the court below may find could have been obtained for the
lands otherwise disposed of if they had all been sold as public
lands, less the amount of lands upon the basis of which settleIN

HOLLOWAY v. DUNHAM.
Statement of the Case.

ment was made with the Tonawandas, and less the 10,240
acres allotted to the thirty-two New York Indians, as set
forth in finding twelve, together with such other deductions
as may seem to the court below to be just, and for such other
proceedings as may be necessary and in conformity with this
opinion."

HOLLOWAY v. DUNHAM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 247. Argued May 4, IMS. -Decided

May 23, 1898.

On an appeal from the judgment of the Supreme Court of a Territory, the
findings of fact are conclusive upon this court.
One general exception to thirteen different instructions cannot be considered
sufficient when each instruction consists of different propositions of law
and fact, and many of them are clearly correct.

THIS action was brought in a district court of the Territory
of Oklahoma to recover the value of certain goods sold and
delivered by the plaintiffs (defendants in error here) to the
defendant below, amounting to the sum of $5004.58, the sales
having been made between the 1st of November, 1890, and
the 10th of March, 1891, and the defendant at the time of the
sales being a resident of Fort Worth in the State of Texas.
At the time of the commencement of the action plaintiffs also
commenced attachment proceedings against the defendant on
the ground that he was at that time a non-resident of the
Territory of Oklahoma, and also on the ground that he was
about to sell, convey and otherwise dispose of his property
subject to execution, with a fraudulent intent to cheat, hinder
and delay his creditors.
The defendant filed an answer, denying the plaintiffs' complaint, and also one denying each and every material allegation contained in the plaintiffs' petition and affidavits *for an
attachment.

OCTOBER TERM',

1897.

Counsel for Parties.

Under the practice in Oklahoma there were two issues thus
made: one in regard to the existence and amount of defendant's indebtedness to the plaintiffs, and the other as to the
facts upon which the attachment could be sustained. These
two separate issues came on for trial on the 16th of June,
1892, before the district court and a jury, and after the evidence was in the court submitted to the jury the two issues,
and directed a separate verdict to be returned in regard to
each issue. The jury returned the following verdicts:
"We, the jury, duly empanelled and sworn in the above
case, find for the plaintiff on the attachment issue.
"EUGENE WALKER, Forenan."

"We, the jury, duly empanelled and sworn in the aboveentitled case, find for the plaintiffs and assess their damages
at $5434.61.
"EUGENE WALKER, Foreman."
At the request of the defendant the court also submitted to
the jury the following questions in writing:
(1) "Was J. R. Holloway, on the 31st day of October, 1891,
about to sell and convey or otherwise dispose of his property
subject to execution, with the intent to cheat, hinder and
delay his creditors?"
(2) "Was J. R. Holloway, on the 31st day of October, 1891,
a non-resident of Oklahoma Territory ?"
The jury returned an affirmative answer to each question.
Judgment was entered for the amount of the verdict.
The defendant appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory where the judgment was affirmed, and thereupon he
obtained a writ of error from this court, and the record is
now here for review.
-Mr. Fred Beall for plaintiff in error.
and .r.

.Mr. Amos Green

C. -ff. Green were on his brief.

-Mr.Selwyn Douglas for defendants in error. -Mr.McGregor

HOLLOWAY v. DUNHAMJ.
Opinion of the Court.

Douglas, -Mr. IT W. Dudley and Xr. P. T. AfIichener were
on his brief.
AIR. JUSTICE PECKHAM,

after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This is a very confused record. There would seem to be
two bills of exceptions, one containing the evidence and the
other reciting certain exceptions, but containing no part of
the evidence taken upon the trial. Both seem to have been
signed by the. judge who tried the case, while neither purports
to have been signed by him until months subsequent to the
day of trial.
The bill of exceptions containing the evidence is the first
bill set forth in the record, and the other bill follows it. It
is not material here which bill may be regarded as the regular
one, because on an appeal from the Supreme Court of a Territory we cannot examine the evidence as to its weight or
sufficiency, and the ;findings of fact are conclusive upon this
court. IHarrisonv'. Perea,168 U. S. 311, and cases cited.
There are left 'only the exceptions to rulings on the
admission or rejection of evidence and those taken to the
instructions of the court to the jury. The former are, not
particularly urged, and the latter are substantially confined
to two. They arise upon the instructions of the court to the
jury in regard to-what is sufficient proof of non-residence, and
also as to the number of the jury necessary to agree upon a
verdict.
The jury found for the plaintiffs on the attachment issue,
and also for the plaintiffs in the main action, and assessed
In addition to that the jury
their damages at $54134.61.
31st of October, 1891, was
the
found that the defendant on
about to sell and convey or otherwise dispose of his property
subject to execution, with the intent to cheat, hinder and
delay his creditors, and also that on the 31st day of October,
1891, he was a non-resident of Oklahoma Territory.
Without at this moment considering whether the exceptions taken to the charge of the judge were sufficiently and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

properly taken, we think it is not material now to inquire as
to the correctness of the charge of the court in relation to the
question of defendant's non-residence. If he were a non-resident when the attachment was issued it could be sustained on
that ground. *But it could also be sustained if at the time
it was issued the defendant was about to sell and convey or
otherwise dispose of his property subject to execution, with
the intent to cheat, hinder and delay his creditors. So there
were two facts entirely separate and distinct from each other,
either of which being found to exist would justify and support
the attachment.
The jury having found that the defendant at the time the
attachment was issued did intend to convey his property, and
thus cheat his creditors, that fact is conclusive upon this court,
and, being in itself sufficient to uphold the attachment, without reference to the other fact of the defendant's non-residence, a complete answer is fumnished to any alleged eigror
in the instruction of the court as to what constitutes a nonresident.
Whether the court erred in charging the law in relation to
non-residence is therefore immaterial. There is no such connection between the two grounds upon either of which the
attachment could be supported, that an error in the charge of
the court in regard to one can be said to affect the other, and
thus furnish cause for a new trial.
The other error complained of relates to the instruction of
the court that the jury need not be unanimous in their verdict,
and that nine could determine it.
The record does not show that the verdict was returned by
a less number than twelve jurors nor does the statute require
the verdict to be signed by all the jurors. At the time when
the verdict was rendered the jury was not polled. It does not
therefore affirmatively appear that this verdict was a verdict
of less than twelve jurors. If, however, the instruction to the
jury had been properly excepted to, the judgment would have
to bereversed under our ruling in AmericaA P tblishing Company v. Fisher, 166 U. S. 461, and Springville v. Thomas, 166

U. S. 707. We are of opinion, however, that no proper and

HOLLOWAY v. DUNHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

sufficient exception was taken by the defendant to the instruction of the judge to the jury on this question.
The record shows that the court gave some thirteen different instructions to the jury, the thirteenth being the one relating to the number necessary to find a verdict. All of the
instructions are set forth at length. Many of them contain
more than one proposition of law or fact.. At the end of the
instructions is the signature of the judge. Following the
signature the record contains this further statement:
"The questions hereto attached you will answer in writing,
You need not be
after each question, the word ' yes' or 'no.'
to answer either
but
unanimous in determining these questions,
answer.
of them nine of you must agree upon the
"Your foreman will sign each of the verdicts and also this
special verdict when you are agreed.
"JOHN G. CLARK, Judge."
Then follow "the questions hereto attached," which were
the special questions submitted to the jury and already mentioned, to which affirmative answers were made and signed by
the'foreman. Then follows this general statement:
"To the giving of which instructions and each of them the
defendant at the time excepted."
On the same day that the verdict was rendered the defendant moved for a new trial on -the grounds therein stated. The
grounds are mentioned in great detail.
No mention is made of the thirteenth instruction to the
jury, and it is nowhere alleged as ground for a new trial that
there was any error in stating to the jury that nine of their
number might find a verdict.
The statement in the record in regard to the manner in
which the defendant took exceptions to the charge of the
judge leaves the fact quite plain that those exceptions were
taken generally and in a lump, and were not in reality taken
separately or applied specifically to any particular itistructions. It was a general statement that the whole charge
of the judge was specifically excepted to. No specifications

OCTOBER TER4, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

were given, nothing was said in the way of calling the attention of the judge to any particular portions of his charge which
the defendant objected to. When we look at the instructions
contained in these various paragraphs, we see that in many of

them there are two or more different propositions of law, and
that a general exception taken to any of such paragraphs
would beinsufficient if one of the several propositions were
correct. Shtuld.one general exception to thirteen different
instructions be considered sufficient when each instruction consists of different propositions of law and fact, and many of
them are clearly correct? We think not. The wholesale
manner of taking exceptions is unfair, both to the judge and
the opposite party. After a judge has given a long charge to
the jury, consisting of many different propositions of law and
fact involved in the trial, a general exception noted at the end
of the charge to each proposition separately of law or fact
announced therein is not sufficient if any proposition of law

contained in the charge is correct. Those propositions in
regard to the correctness of which there is a real controversy
should be at least called to the attention of the judge, so that
if he thought it proper he might correct, modify or explaih
them. It is evident the defendant's counsel had no reference
in his exceptions to the charge, to many of the propositions
therein contained, for they were favorable to the defendant.
And it is equally plain that he had in fact no reference to the
instructions as to the number necessary to find a verdict. This
is shown ky the motion for a new trial and the grounds therein
mentioned. It would not conduce to the fair administration
of justice to permit such an exception to be regarded as sufficient to raise the question herein sought to be reviewed.
Some other questions were made in the brief of the counsel
for plaintiff in error, all of which we have carefully examined,
but do not find any error which would lead to a reversal, and
the judgment must therefore be
Affirm ed.
MR. JUSTICE BREwER dissented.

UNITED STATES v. SALAMBIER.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. SALAMBIER
CERTIFICATE

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 117. Submitted May 6, 1S9S. -Decided

APPEALS FOR THE

May 23,189S.

A protest by an importer, addressed to the collector and signed by the importer saying, "I do hereby protest against the rate of 50 % assessed on
chocolate imported by me, Str. La Bretagne, June 23/91. Import entry 96,656.- M. S. No. 52/53, 1 claiming that the said goods under existing laws are dutiable at 2 cts. per lb., and the exaction of a higher rate is
unjust and illegal. I pay the duty demanded to obtain possession of the
goods, and claim to have the amt. unjustly exacted refunded," is, in form
and substance a sufficient compliance with the requirements of section
14 of the act of June 10, 1890, c. 407, 26 Stat. 131, 137.

A JUDGMENT or decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York having been
made and entered on the 4th day of January, 1895, by which
it was ordered, adjudged and decreed that there was no error
in certain proceedings before the board of United States general appraisers) and that their decision be in all things affirmed,
and an appeal having been duly taken from said judgment or
decree to the Circuit Court of Appeals by the United States,
and the cause having come on for argument in that court, a
certain question of law arose concerning which that court
desired the instruction of the Supreme Court of the United
States for its proper decision.
The facts out of which the question arose are as follows:
Certain merchandise consisting of sweetened chocolate in
the form of small cakes or tablets manufactured from cocoa
sweetened with sugar, known commercially as sweetened
chocolate, was imported and entered for consumption by the
appellee, M. Salambier, from a foreign country into the port
of New York on June 23, 1891, which merchandise was classified for customs duties at fifty per cent ad valorem by the
collector of the port of New York under the provisions of
paragraph 239 of the tariff act of October 1, 1890, and the
duty was liquidated accordingly.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

The importer and appellee protested against this exaction
and duly filed the following protest:
"-EW YORK, July 26, 1891.
"Hion. JOEL B. ERHARDT, Collector.
"Sir: I do lhereby protest against the rate of 50% assessed
on cho.cdlate imported by me, Str. La Bretagne, June 23/91.
Import entry 96,656.-M. S. INo. 52/53.
"I, claiming that the said goods under existing laws are
dutiable at 2 cts. per lb., and the exaction of a higher rate is
unjust and illegal, I pay the duty demanded to obtain possession of the goods, and claim to have the amt. unjustly exacted
refunded.
M'. SALA-MrBIER,
"Very respectfully,

"1J.H. Du-,ioNT, Atty."

The collector of the port of New York thereupon transmitted the said protest with the invoice and entry to the
board of three general appraisers on duty at the port of New
York, and said board on December 10, 1892, rendered their
decision reversing the decision of the collector, and holding
that the said merchandise was dutiable at 2 cents per pound
under paragraph 319 of the tariff act of October 1, 1890, and
that the importer should not be deprived of his remedy by
reason of having failed to specifically claim classification of
the said imported merchandise as a manufacture of cocoa
under sail paragraph 319.
IFrom this decision of the board of United States general
appraisers the United States appealed to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York,
by petition, praying for a review of said decision pursuant to
section 15 of the act of June 10, 1890, claiming in their petition, among other things, that the said board were in error
in failing to hold that the protest in question was insufficient
and invalid, inasmuch as it did not set forth distinctly and
specifically the reasons for the importer's objection to the collector's decision as to the rate and amount of duties charged
upon the merchandise according to the provisions of law; also

UNITED STATES v. SALAMBIER.
Opinion of the Court.

in deciding an issue not raised by the protest or arising in the
case; also in entertaining said protest and in failing to find
the issue of law with.the collector of customs; also in reversing
the decision of the collector aforesaid in the premises.
The said Circuit Court, upon said petition, ordered the
board of United States general appraisers to return to the Circuit Court the record and the evidence taken by them, together with a certified statement of the facts involved in the
case and their decision thereon, pursuant to section 15 of the
act of June 10, 1890, and the said board of general appraisers
thereafter made such return in conformity to the order of the
court.
The case thereafter came on to be tried upon the record as
above set forth and upon the invoice and entry, before Hon.
Hoyt H. Wheeler, District Judge holding the said Circuit
Court. The Circuit Court affirmed the decision of the board
of general appraisers herein and judgment was thereupon
made and entered as above set forth, from which judgment the
present appeal was taken by the United States to this court.
Upon these facts that court desired instruction upon the following question of law for the proper decision of said cause,
namely:
" Was the protest herein above set forth a good and sufficient protest under existing law against the decision of the
collector in his assessment of duty upon the appellee's importation of sweetened chocolate, under the tariff act of October
1, 1890?
"And to that end that court hereby certifies such question
to the Supreme Court of the United States."
Mr. Assistant Attorney General ioyt for the United States.
-Mr. Edwin B. Smith for Salambier.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after- stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It was decided by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit, in United States v. S&hilling, 11 U. S.

OCTOBER TE RM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

App. 603, that "sweetened chocolate" was dutiable under
paragraph 319 of the tariff act of October 1, 1890, at the
rate of two cents per pound, as "cocoa, prepared or manufactured, not especially provided for in the act."
From that decision the United States took no appeal. In
the present case, the board of general appraisers held that
"sweetened chocolate" was dutiable at the rate of two cents
per pound under said paragraph 319. The United States appealed from the decision of the board of appraisers to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York, not on the ground that the merchandise in question was not properly dutiable, under paragraph 319, at two
cents per pound, but claiming that the protest made by the
importer against the decision of the collector, who had assessed
the sweetened chocolate, under paragraph 239 of said act, at
fifty per cent ad valorem, was not a sufficient protest under existing law. From the judgment of the Circuit Court affirming
the decision of the board of general appraisers an appeal was
taken by the United States to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and that court has certified to us the single question of the
legal sufficiency of the protest which, omitting unnecessary
words and figures, was as follows:
"I do hereby protest against the rate of 50% assessed on
chocolate-imported by me, Str. La Bretagne, June 23, '91.
I, claiming that the said goods under existing laws
are dutiable at two cents per pound, and the exaction of a
higher rate is unjust and illegal, I pay the duty demanded
to obtain possession of the goods and claim to have the amount
unjustly exacted refunded."
By the fourteenth section of an act approved June 10, 1890,
26 Stat. 131, entitled ','An act to simplify the laws in relation -to the collection of the revenues," Congress enacted "That the decision of the collector as to the rate and amount
of duties chargeable upon imported merchandise, including all
dutiable costs and charges, and as to il fees and exactions of
whatever character, (except duties on tonnage,) shall be final
and conclusive against all persons interested therein, unless
the owner, importer, consignee or agent of such merchandise,

UNITED STATES v. SALA MBIER.
Opinion of the Court.

or the person paying such fees, charges and exactions, other
than duties, shall, within ten days after, 'but not before,' such
ascertainment and liquidation of duties, as well in cases of
merchandise entered in bond as for consumption, or within
ten days after the payment of such fees, charges and exactions, if dissatisfied with such decision, give notice in writing
to the collector, setting forth therein distinctly and specifically, and in respect to each entry or payment, the reasons for
his objections thereto, and if the merchandise is entered for
consumption shall pay the full amount of the duties and
charges ascertained to be due thereon."
The three paragraphs concerned are as follows:
239. "All other confectionery, including chocolate confectionery, not specially provided for in this act, fifty per centum
ad valorem."
318. " Chocolate, (other than chocolate confectionery and
chocolate commercially known as sweetened chocolate,) two
cents a pound."
319. "Cocoa, prepared or manufactured, not specially provided for in this act, two cents per pound." 26 Stat. 581, 588.
It is not claimed on behalf of the Government in the present
case that the protest was not made in writing by a person entitled to do so; or that it was not made within due time; or
that the requisite payment under protest has not been duly
made. In other words, it is conceded that the importer,
within the time prescribed in the statute, and having paid the
full amount of the duties exacted, gaye notice in writing to
the collector that he was dissatisfied with his decision, and.
gave certain reasons for his objections thereto.
What is claimed by the Government is that the nature of
tie importer's objections to the decision of the collector was
not set forth with the distinctness and with the minnteness of
specification required by the statute.
It does not appear that the collector deemed the protest insufficient in form or unintelligible. Not complaining of any
want of distinctness in the protest, be adhered to his decision
as to the nature of the merchandise and the amount of the
duty, and, in pursuance of the statute, transmitted the protest
VOL. cLxx-40

