KINGMAN v. WESTERN MANUFACTURING CO.

675

Statement of the Case.

KINGMAN

v. WESTERN MANUFACTURING
COMPANY.

EIGHTH
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
CIRCUIT.
No. 248. Submitted May 4, IS9.-Decided May 23, 1898.

A judgment is not final, so that the jurisdiction of the Appellate Court
may be invoked, while it is still under the control of the trial court,
through the pendency of a motion for a new trial.

THE Western Manufacturing Company, a corporation of
the State of Nebraska, brought its action against Kingman &
Company, a corporation of the State of Illinois, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska, seeking a recoveyy of various amounts, on four causes of action,
and demanding judgment in the aggregate for the sum of
$18,990. Such proceedings were had that the cause duly
came on for trial before a jury at the May term, 1895, of said
court, which resulted in a verdict on June 4, 1895, one of the
days of that term, against Kingman & Company for the sum
On the coming in of the verdict, the court,
of $1996.66.
according to the practice in that jurisdiction, at once rendered
judgmerit on the verdict. On June 6, 1895, it being still the
May term, Kingman & Company filed its motion to vacate
and set aside the judgment and for a new trial of the cause,
for various reasons therein stated. The motion was heard,
Noand on December 11, 1895, being one of the days of the
order
an
by
vember term, 1895, of the court, was :bverruled
*entered that day in the following terms: "This cause having
been- heard on the motion of the defendant to set aside the
judgment and the verdict and for a new trial herein, was
argued and submitted to the court by the attorneys for the
respective parties; whereupon, after careful consideration
thereof and being fully advised in the premises, it is now
on this day considered, ordered and adjudged by the court
that said motion be, and the same is hereby, overruled, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

that the judgment heretofore entered herein be and remain
absolute."
On the next day, December 12, one of the days of the
November term, an order was entered giving Kingman &
Company thirty days from that (late "in which to prepare
and present its bill of exceptions herein."
The bill of exceptions was duly served on the attorneys for
the Western Manufacturing Company, and was by them
.endorsed: "Dec. 30, 1895. Returned without amendment ;"
was presented to the trial judge for his signature, and was by
him duly'allowed, signed and filed, January 11, 1896. The petition of Kingman & Company for writ of error and an assignment of brrors was filed, the writ of error duly allowed and
issued, bond 'approved and filed, and citation signed, all on
January 20, 1896. The citation was served January 21 and
returned, and filed January 22.. The record was filed in the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit Aarch 14,
1896, and was printed. On the first day of May, 1896, the
Western Manufacturing Company filed its notion in the Circuit Court of Appeals to dismiss the appeal because the court
had no jurisdiction of the cause; and because more than six
months had intervened between the date of the rendition of
the judgment in the action and the date of allowing an([
taking out the writ of error; of the filing of the petition for
the writ of error; of the filing of the assignment of errors;
of the filing of the bond; and of the service of the citation.
This motion was sustained and the writ of error dismissed,
with costs, for want of jurisdiction. A petition for rehearing
was denied, and, thereafterwvard, a writ of certiorari was
issued removing the cause to this court.
.Abr. Walter J. Lamb for the Western M anufacturing Company.
2i. James ff. 21cIntosA for Kingman.
MR.CHIrEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

KINGMAN v. WESTERN MANUFACTURING CO.

677

Opinion of the Court.

In Aztec -Mining Company v. Ripley, 151 U. S. 79, it was
held that this court had jurisdiction by appeal or writ of error
to pass upon the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of Appeals
in cases involving the question whether their judgments were
made final by section six of the act of M4arch 3, 1891, c. 517,
26 Stat. 826. The present case was one of the classes of cases
in which the judgments of the Circuit Courts of Appeals were
made final, and, therefore, the remedy was properly sought
by certiorari.
By section eleven of that act it is provided that "no appeal
or writ of error by which any order, judgment or decree may
be reviewed in the Circuit Courts of Appeals under the provisions of this act shall be taken or sued out except within six
months after the entry of the order, judgment or decree
sought to be reviewed."
By section six the Circuit Courts of Appeals are empowered
to review final decisions of the District and Circuit Courts,
except where cases are carried, under section five, directly to
this court, but by the seventh section, as amended by the act
of February 19, 1895, c. 96, 28 Stat. 666, jurisdiction is given
to the Courts of Appeals from appeals from interlocutory
orders in injunction proceedings. Ifirwan v. -Mlurphy, 170
U. S. 205.
This provision is an exception to the general rule, and while
the language of section eleven refers to the entry of the order,
judgment or decree, yet the meaning must be confined to
final orders, judgments or decrees.
The question is, then, whether the judgment of which Kngman & Company complained became final for the purposes of
a writ of error six months before the w'rit was sued out.
By section 726 of the Revised Statutes, the courts of the
United States are empowered to grant new trials "for reasons
for which new trials have usually been granted in the courts
of law;" and by section 987 provision is made where judgment had been entered on a verdict, or a finding of the court
on the facts, for stay of execution for forty-two days, on
motion for time to file a petition for a hew trial, and if such
petition should be filed by leave within that time, execution

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

was, further stayed as of course; and "if a new trial be
granted, the f6rmer judgment shall thereby be rendered
void." These sections were brought forward from sections
seventeen and eighteen of the original judiciary act of September 24, 1789, and the latter section is supplementary and
additional to the other.
At common law motions for new trial were made before
judgment, but under the statutes of many of the States judgRient is entered at once on the return of the verdict, and the
motion for new trial made afterwards.
By section 5889 of the Compiled Statutes of Nebraska applications for new trial must be made at the term when the verdict is rendered, (except on the ground of newly discovered
evidence,) and within three days after verdict unless unavoidably prevented.
The motion for new trial in this case was filed within three
days after the return of the verdict, and seasonably within the
rule of the state statute, or the common law rule, and, it is
said, within the rule enforced by the United States courts in
that district. No leave to file it was required, and as it was
entertained by the court, argued by counsel without objection,
and passed upon, it must be presumed that it was regularly
and properly made. This being so, the case falls within the
rule that if a motion or a petition for rehearing is made or
presented in season and entertained by the court, the time
limited for a writ of error or appeal does not begin to run
until the motion or petition is disposed of. Until then the
judgment or decree does not take final effect for the purposes
of the writof error or appeal. Aspen Mining & Smelting Co.
v. Billings, 150 U. S. 31; Voorhees v. 2T oye ManufacturingCo.,
151 U. S. 135; Brockett v. Brockett, 2 How. 238, 249; Texas
and Pacific Railway v. -urtiphy, 111 U. S. 488; Memphis v.
Brown, 941 U. S. 715 ;- Northern Pacific Railroad v. holmes,

155 U. S. 137. In femphis v. Brqwn the judgment was in
mandamus, and a motion had been made to set it aside, which
was denied, and thereupon the judgment was redntered. The
question here arose on a motion to vacate the supersedeas
because the writ of error was not seasonably sued out within

KINGMAN v. WESTERN MANUFACTURING

CO.

679

Opinion of the Court.

section 1007, Rev. Stat., sixty days having elapsed since the
judgment was originally entered, and Mr. Chief Justice Waite,
delivering the opinion of the court, said: "Under the ruling
in Brockett v. Brockett, 2 How. 241, the motion made during
the term to set aside the judgment of March- 2 suspended the
operation of that judgment, so that it did not take final effect
for the purposes of a writ of error until May 20, when the
motion was disposed of. In addition to this, the form of the
entry of May 20 is equivalent to setting aside the judgment
of March 2, and entering it anew as of that date. This the
court had the right to do during ithe term and for the very
purpose of giving it effect for a supersedeas." No reference
was made to any distinction between a motion for a rehearing
in a suit in equity and a motion for a new trial in an action
at law. Indeed section 1012 of the Revised Statutes provides
that appeals "shall be subject to the same rules, regulations
and restrictions as are or may be prescribed in law in cases of
writs of error," and if the limitation on taking an appeal does
not begin to run until after the denial of a pending petition
for rehearing in an equity suit, it would seem to follow that
this must be so as to bringing a writ of error after the overruling of a motion for a new trial.
The subject was much considered by Judge McCrary in
.Ruthe7ford v. Penn -Mutual Life Insurance Company, 1
McCrary, 120, where he held that "a writ of error will operate as a supersedeas if duly served within sixty days, Sundays
excluded, after a motion for new trial has been overruled,"
and by Judge Sabin in Brown v. Evans, 18 Fed. Rep. 56,
where the same conclusion was reached, and it was held that
where a motion for a new trial had been made and entertained, the judgment in the case did not become final and effectual for purposes of review until the date of the order of
court overruling such motion. And see Alexander v. United
States, 15 U. S. App. 158, 169 ; Scott's Administrator v. Stockton, 41 U. S. App. 579; Andrews v. Thum, 33 U. S. App. 430.
" judgment or decree to be final, within the meaning of
that term as used in the acts of Congress giving this court
jurisdiction on appeals and writs of error," said Chief Justice

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Waite in Bostwick v. Br'inkerkhoj 106 U. S. 3, "must terminate the litigation between the parties on the merits of the
case, so that if there should be an affirmance here, the court
below would have nothing to do but to execute the judgment
or decree it had already rendered."
And in .McLish v. Poff, 141 U. S. 661, 665, it was observed
by Mr. Justice Lamar: "From the very foundation of our
judicial system the object and policy of the acts of Congress
in relation to appeals and writs of error, (with the single exception of the provision in the act of 1875 in relation to cases
of removal, which was repealed by the act of 1887,) have been
to save the expense and delays of repeated appeals in the
same suit, and to have the whole case and every matter in
controversy in it decided in a single appeal."
The Circuit Courts of Appeals are governed by the same
principles.
Unquestionably it is the general rule that after the expiration of the term all final judgments, decrees or other final
orders of the court thereat rendered and entered of record,
pass beyond its control unless steps be taken during that term
by motion or 6theiwise, to set aside, modify or correct them.
llickman v. Fort Scott, 141 U. S. 415. But this motion for
new trial was filed in due course and in apt time during the
term at which the verdict was returned and judgment rendered,
and this being so, the case came within the exception.
It is true that a writ of error does not lie from this -court or
the Courts of Appeals to review an order denying a motion
for a new trial, nor can error be assigned on such an order because the disposition of the motion is discretionary; but the
court below while such a motion is pending has not lost its
jurisdiction over the case, and, having power to grant the
motion, the judgment is not final for the purpose of taking
out the writ. The effect of a judgment, entered at once on
the return of the verdict, in other respects is not open for consideration. - The question before us is merely whether a judgment is final sotbat the jurisdiction of the appellate court
may be invoked while it is still under the control of the trial
court through the pendency of a motion for new trial. We

UNIT7D STATES v. COE.
Statement of the Case.

do not think it is, and are of opinion that the limitation didnot commence to run in this case until the motion for new
trial was overruled.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause remandedforfurtherproceedings.

UNITED STATES v. COE.
APPEAL

FROM

No. 8.

THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND

Argued March 14, 15, 189.-

CLAIMS.

Decided May 23, 1898.

After a careful examination of all the acts of the Mexican authorities upon
which the appellee claims that his title to the grant in question in this
case is founded, the court arrives at the conclusion that the officers

who made the grant had no power to make it; and the decree of the
Court of Private Land Claims establishing it is reversed, and the case is
remanded for further proceedings.

Tnis suit was 6riginally instituted February 2, 1892, by
the Algodones Land Company, under provisions of an act
entitled "An act to establish a Court of Private Land Claims
and to provide for the settlement of private land claims in certain States and Territories," approved March 3, 1891, c. 539, 26
Stat. 854.
Pending the litigation, the Algodones Land Company conveyed the property to Earl B. Coe, and upon motion the action
was revived in his name.
The basis of the claim is an alleged grant, which shows:
That one Fernando Rodriguez, on January 4, 1838, at Iermosillo, presented a petition to the treasurer general of the state
of Sonora, Mexico, stating that he had sufficient means to settle and cultivate a tract of vacant desert land, on the northern
frontier of the state, situated between the Colorado and Gila
rivers, said lands including the tract from the southern side
of the Gila River, in front of the junction of the same with the
Colorado River, as far as the crossing (paso) of the Algodones,

