CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 106. Argued March 2, 3, 198.- Decided April ri, 1898.

The provision in the treaty of June 15, 1838, with the New York Indians,
that the United States will set apart as a permanent home for them the
tract therein described in what afterwards became the State of Kansas,
was intended to invest a present legal title thereto in the Indians, which
title has not been forfeited and has not been reinvested in the United
States; and the Indians are not tstopped from claiming the benefit of
such reservation.
It appears by the records of the proceedings of the Senate that several
amendments were there made to said treaty, including a new article; that
the ratification was made subject to a proviso, the text of which is stated
In the opinion of the court; and that in the official publication of the
treaty, and in the President's proclamation announcing it, all the ameidments except said proviso were published as part of the treaty, and it was
certified that "the treaty, as so amended, is word for word as follows,"
omitting the proviso. Held, that it is difficult to see how the proviso can
-be regarded as part of the treaty, or as limiting at all the terms of the
grant.

THIS was a petition by the Indians who were parties to the
treaty of Buffalo Creek, New York, on January 15, 1838, 7
Stat. 550, to enforce an alleged liability of the United States for
VOL. CLXX-1

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

the value of certain lands in Kansas, set apart for these Indians,
and subsequently sold by the United States, as well as for certain amounts of money agreed to be paid upon their removal.
These claims were referred, under the act of March 3, 1883,
known as the "Bowman Act," to the Court of Claims.
That court reported its findings to the Senate, January 16,
1892, and thereupon, on January 28, 1893, Congress passed
an act to authorize the Court of Cldims to hear and determine
these claims and to enter up judgment as if it had original
jurisdiction of the case without regard to the statute of limitations. 'There was a further provision, that from any judgment rendered by that court, either party might appeal to tlie
Supreme Court of the United States.
The petition, which was filed on February 10, 1893, set
forth as the substance of the treaty that the claimants ceded
and relinquished to the United States all their right, title and
interest in and to certain lands of the claimants at Green
Bay, State of Wisconsin, and in consideration of such cession
and relinquishment the United States, in and by- the said
treaty, agreed and guaranteed as follows :
First. To set aside, as a permanent home for all of the
claimants, a certain tract of country west of the Mississippi
River, described by metes and bounds, and to include eighteen
hundred and twenty-four thousand (1,824,000) acres of land,
the same to be divided among the different tribes, nations or
bands of the claimants in severalty, according to the number
of individuals in each tribe, as set forth in a certain schedule
annexed to the said treaty, and designated as Schedule A,
upon condition that such of the claimants as should not
accept, and agree to remove to the country set apart for them
within five years, or such other time as the President might
from time to time appoint, should forfeit to the United States
all interest in the lands so set apart.
Secondly. The United States agreed to protect and defend
the claimants in the peaceable possession and enjoyment of
their new homes and to secure their right to establish their
own government, subject to the legislation of Congress respecting trade and intercourse with the Indians.

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Thirdly. The United States agreed that the lands secured
to the claimants by the treaty should-never be included in any
State or Territory of the Union.
Fourthly. The United States agreed to pay to the several
tribes or nations of the claimants, hereinafter mentioned, on
their removal west, the following sums respectively, namely:
To the St. Regis tribe, five thousand dollars ($5000); to the
Seneca nation, the income annually of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000), (being part of the money due said nation
for lands sold by them in New York, and which sum they
autthorized to.be paid to the United States) ; to the Cayugas,
twenty-five hundred dollars ($2500) in cash, and the annual
income of twenty-five hundred dollars ($2500) ; to the Onondagas, two thousand: dollars ($2000) in cash, and-the annual
income of twenty-five hundred dollars ($2500) ; to the Oneidas,
six thousand dollars ($6000) in cash, and to the Tuscaroras,
three thousand dollars ($3000).
Fifthly. The United States agreed to appropriate the sum
of four hundred thousand dollars, ($400,000) to be applied
from time to time by the President of the United States for
the following purposes, namely: To aid the claimants in
removing to their new homes and supporting themselves
the first year after their removal; to encourage and assist
them in being taught to cultivate their lands; to aid them
in erecting mills and other necessary houses; to aid them
in purchasing domestic animals and farming utensils and in
acquiring a knowledge of the mechanic arts.
By a supplemental article the St. Regis Indians were allowed to remove to the said country if they so desired, but
were exempted from obligation so to do.
The treaty of Buffalo Creek having been duly assented to
by all the parties thereto, was afterwards on, to wit, the 4th
day of April, A.D. 1840, duly proclaimed; and certain disputes thereunder having arisen, it was afterwards modified in
some particulars not having reference to the matter of this
claim, and as so modified was again proclaimed on, to wit,
the 26th day of August, 1842.
The petition further alleged that at the time of the making

OCTOBER TER-M, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

of the treaty of Buffalo Creek aforesaid, and for many years
prior thereto, the claimants owned and occupied valuable
tracts of land in the State of New York, and had improved
and cultivated the same and resided thereon, and from the
products thereof chiefly sustained themselves.
That the President of the United States never prescribed
any time for the removal of the claimants, or any of them, to
the lands, or any of them, set apart by the treaty of Buffalo
Creek, and no provision of any kind was ever made for the
actual removal of more than about two hundred and sixty
individuals of the claimant tribes, as contemplated by the
said treaty ;' and of this number only thirty-two ever received
patents or certificates of allotment of any of the lands mentioned in the first article of the said treaty, and the land
allotted to those thirty-two was at the rate of 320 acres
each, or 10,240 acres in all.
.That after the conclusion of the said treaty of Buffalo
Creek the United States surveyed and made part of the
public domain the lands at Green Bay, ceded by the claimants, and sold or otherwise disposed of and conveyed the
same and received the consideration therefor.
That the lands west of the Mississippi River, secured to the
claimants by the said treaty of Buffalo Creek, were set apart
by the United States and designated upon the land maps
thereof as the New York Indian reservation, and so remained
until in, or about the year A.D. 1860, at which time the
United States surveyed and made part of the public domain
the lands aforesaid, and the same were sold or otherwise disposed of by. the United States, which received the entire consideration therefor; and the said lands thereafter were, and
now are, included within the territorial limits of the State of
Kansas. The said lands at the time the same were so appropriated by the United States were of great value, to wit, of
the value of one dollar and twenty-five cents ($1.25) per acre
and upwards.
That the action of the United States in appropriating the
said lands as aforesaid was in pursuance.of the proclamations
of the President, of date December 3 and 17, 1860, and grew

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

out of an order of the Secretary of the Interior of the 21st
day of March, A.D. 1859; and between the said last-mentioned date and the proclamation of the said lands aforesaid
the claimants employed counsel to protect and prosecute their
claims in the premises, and asserted that the United States
had seized upon the said lands contrary to the obligations of
the said treaty, and would not permit the said claimants to
occupy the same or make any disposition thereof, and the
claimants have steadily since asserted said claim in the
premises.
That of the sum of $400,000, agreed by the treaty of Buffalo
Creek to be appropriated by the United States for the purposes aforesaid, dnly the sum of $20,477.50 was ever so appropriated, except as lierelnafter stated, and of this sum only
$9464.08 was actually expended.
The petition further alleged that the Tonawanda band had
been paid $256,000 for their interest in the land; that settlement had also been had with the Senecas, and that a special
act had been passed authorizing the Court of Claims to find
the facts and enter up judgment, without interest, and that
the statute of limitations should not be pleaded as a bar to
any recovery.
The petition concluded with a demand for a judgment for
the value of the lands and for the amounts that were to be
paid in cash.
The Court of Claims found the facts stated in the margin,'
1 FINDINGS or FACT.

1- In 1780 the Six Nations of "New York Indians" consisted of the following nations or tribes: Senecas, Cayugas, Onondagas, Oneidas, Tuscaroras and Mohawks. The Mohawks soon after withdrew to Canada,
relinquishing to New York all claim to lands in that State.
The court decide that the Indians described in the jurisdictional actsendIng this case to this court as "the New York Indians, being those Indians who.
were parties to the treaty of Buffalo Creek, New York, on the 15th of January, 1838," were the following: Senecas, Onondagas, Onondagas residifig
on the Seneca reservation, Onondagas at Onondaga, Cayugas, Cayugas residing on the Seneca reservation, Cayuga Indians residing in the State of
New York, Tuscaroras, Tuscaroras residing in the State of New York,
,Oneidas residing in New York, at Green Bay (Wisconsin), and in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

together with others which are not deemed material to the
consideration of the case, and also found as a conclusion of
law from these facts that the petition should be dismissed,
whereupon the claimants appealed to this court.
Seneca reservation, Oneidas, St. Regis, St. Regis in New York, the American party of the St. Regis residing in the State of New York, Stockbridges,
Munsees, Brothertowns.
2. Some of the New York Indians between 1810 and 1816 petitioned the
President of the United States for leave to purchase reservations of their
Western brethren with the privilege of removing to and occupying the
same without changing their existing relations and treaties with the government or their right to the annuities promised in those treaties. (February 12, 1816, the Secretary of War, by authority of the President, gave
his permisgion.) In 1820 and 1821 defendants aided some ten Indians,
representing plaintiffs, in exploring certain parts of Wisconsin with a view
to making arrangements with the Indians residing there for a portion of
their country to be inhabited by such of the Six Nations as might choose to
emigrate thither. Among the petitioners for leave to purchase reservations
were the Onondagas, Senecas, Cayugas and Oneida nations of New York
Indians.
August 18, 1821, the Mermminees and Winnebago nations, in consideration of $2000, chiefly in goods, ceded, released and quitclaimed all their
right, title and claim in certain lands near Green Bay, Wisconsin, amounting to about 500,000 acres, to the Six Nations and the St. Regis, Stockbridge and Munsee tribes, reserving the right of fishing and the right to
occupy " a necessary proportion of the lands for the purposes of hunting,
provided that in such use and occupation no waste or depredation should be
committed on lands under improvement."
The President's approval of the arrangement found in the treaty of
August 18, 1821, was signified February 19, 1822, as follows:
"The within arrangement, entered into between the Six Nations, the
St. Regis, Stockbridge and Munsee nations, of the one part, and the Menominees and Winnebagoes of the other, is approved, with the express understanding that.the lands thereby conveyed to the Six Nations, the St. Regis,
Stockbridge and Munsee nations are to be held by them in the same manner
as they were previously held by the Menominees and Winnebagoes.
"JAiES MONiROE.

"February 19, 1822."
The $2000 above mentioned was thus paid: In goods, $900 from the
Stockbridges, $400 from the Oneidas, $200 from the Tuscaroras; in cash,
$500. The Senecas subsequently denied that they had any title to any lands
in Wisconsin. It does not appear that the Cayugas or Onondagas claimedt
any interest in the lands prior to 1860.
3. Permission to secure an ektension of- the cession in the preceding-

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Appellants.

Mr. Joseph II. Choate for appellants. Mr. Uenry E. Davis,
Mr. Guion Miller, Mr. George Barker, Mr. James B. Jenkins and Mr. Jonas T. McGowan were with him on the
brief.
finding recited was given by the Secretary of War, and thereafter, on September 23, 1822, the Menominees, in consideration of $3000 in goods, made
a similar cession of another tract containing at least 5,000,000 acres, rather
undefined, (adjoining the above,) to the Stockbridge, Oneida, Tuscarora,
St. Regis and Munsee nations, the releasees promising, however, that the
releasors should "have the free permission and privilege of occupying and
residing upon the lands" in common with the former.
The President's approval was given March 13, 1823, as follows:
"The foregoing instrument is approved, so far as it conveys to the
Stockbridge, Oneida, Tuscarora, St. Regis and Munsee tribes or nations of
Indians that portion of the country therein described which lies between
Sturgeon Bay, Green Bay, Fox River; that part of the former purchase
made by said tribes or nations of Indians of the Menominee and Winnebago
Indians on the 8th of August, 1821, which lies south of Fox River and a
line drawn from the southwestern extremity of said purchase to the head
of Sturgeon Bay, and no farther, that quantity being deemed sufficient for
the use of the first before-mentioned tribes and nations of Indians. It is
to be understood, however, that the lands, to the cession of which to the
tribes or nations aforesaid the government has assented, are to be held by
them in the same manner as they were held by the Menominees previous to
concluding and signing the aforegoing instrument, and that the title which
they have acquired is not to interfere in any manner whatever with the
lands previously acquired or occupied by the government of the United
States or its citizens."
October 27, 1823, the Secretary of War officially notified the releasees
that the President distinctly wished them to understand that by this partial
sanction he did not mean to interfere with, nor in any manner invalidate,
their title to all the lands which they had thereby acquired, including those
not confirmed by the government, but, on the contrary, he considered their
title to every part of the country conveyed to them by the releasors as
equally valid as against them; and that what they had done was with the
full assent of the government.
Of the consideration above mentioned, $1000 were paid by the Stockbridges
and Munsees, while $1000 were to be paid by the Oneidas, Tuscaroras and
St. Regis in one year from September 23, 1822, and $1000 in two years from
that date. Of the two latter amounts $1000 appears to have been paid by
the United States out of ,the funds of the St. Regis about 1825, while $950
were paid by the Brothertown tribe September 18, 1824. In consideration
of which the releaseea, by an agreement with the Brothertowns, under date
of January 8, 1825, ceded to them a small separate tract by metes and
bounds, and, after reserving to themselves, for each tribe of the releasees,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Ckarles C. Binney for appellees. Mr. Assistant Attorney General Pradtwas on his brief.
Afr. JUsTICE BDowN delivered the opinion of the court.
a similar tract from out the country purchased from the releasors, granted
to the Brothertowns an equal, undivided part of all the remaining portion
of said purchase. It does not appear whether the Oneidas and Tusearoras
paid any part of the above consideration.
4. Tie grants set forth in findings 2 and 3 include the lands subsequently ceded by the Menominees to the United States by the treaties of
August 11, 1827, and February 8, 1831.
5. Thereafter some New York Indians, belonging to the Oneida, St.
Regis, Stockbridge, Munsee and Brothertown tribes, removed to and took
possession of the lands in Wisconsin.
Later, and after 1832, another small portion of the New York Indians
removed to the Wisconsin or Green Bay lands.
March 14, 1840, the Senecas denied ownership of Wisconsin lands, stating that they determined to have no other home than that of their fathers
where they then resided, and, in May and September following, in petitions
to the President, the Senate and the House of Representatives, their council
denied that they were parties to the treaty.
6. It does not appear that application was made by the tribes or bands,
or any of them, to the government; for removal to the Kansas lands provided for in the Buffalo Creek treaty, except as hereafter appears in these
findings.
It does not appear that any substantial number of Indians wished to go
to Kansas other than those who made up the Hogeboom party (intfa).
7. In the year 1838, at the time of the negotiation of the treaty of Buffalo Creek, the Senecas, the Onoudagas, the Oneidas, the Cayugas, the
Tuscaroras and the St. Regis each possessed a reservation of land in the
State of New York on which members of the tribes resided, and the right
of occupanc of which was secured to them by treaty stipulations. The
Cayuga Indians had no separate reservation of their own in the State of
New York, but made their home with and resided upon the reservation and
lands possessed by the Seneca nation; this they did with the consent of
the Senecas, and a portion of the Onondagas did the same.
(The eighth finding is immaterial.)
9. For many years prior to the treaty of Buffalo Creek (of 1838) these
nations or tribes of Indians had improved and cultivated their lands, on
which they resided and from the products of which they chiefly sustained
themselves.
The treaty of Buffalo Creek, as printed in the sQventh volume of the
Statutes at Large, contains a misprint on the third line of page 556. Tie
word "Oneidas" is in the original treaty " Onondagas," the whole line
reading, " Onondagas residing on the Seneca reservation."

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The facts in this case are somewhat complicated, but the
real question involved is whether the cessions of the Kansas
lands to these Indians ever took complete effect, or whether
the failure, or rather the refusal, of the Indians to remove to
10. Extract from Executive Journal of June 11, 1838.
The Senate resumed as in Committee of the Whole the consideration
of the treaty with the New York Indians, and the article supplemental
thereto.
On motion of Mr. Wright, and by unanimous consent, the question was
taken on agreeing to the amendments reported from the Committee on
Indian Affairs, and determined in the affirmative, yeas 33.
No further amendments having been made, the treaty was reported to
the Senate, and the amendments were unanimously concurred in.
Mr. White then submitted the following relolution of ratification, embracing the amendments as reported from the committee and adopted by
the Senate:
Resolved, (two-thirds of the Senators present concurring,) That the Senate
advise and consent to the ratification of the treaty made and concluded at
Bulltlo Creek, in the State of New York, the 15th day of January, in the
year of our Lord 1838, by Ransom H. Gillett, a commissioner on the part of
the United States, and the chiefs, headmen and warriors of the several
tribes of the New York Indians, assembled in council, with the following
amendments.
(Here follows a series of amendments striking out original articles 3, 4,
5, 6, 9 and 19, striking out particular words and clauses from other articles,
inserting new article 15, and concluding as follows:)
Resolved, further, (two-thirds of the Senatorspresent concurring,) That the
Senate advise and consent to the ratification of the supplemental article to

the treaty concluded at Buffalo Creek, in the State of New York, January
15, 1838, which was made at the council-house of St. Regis on the 13th day
of February, 1838 : Provided, The chiefs and headmen of the St. Regis
Indians, residing in New York, will in general council accept of and adopt
the aforesaid treaty, as modified by the preceding resolution of ratification.
Provided always, and be it further resolved, (two-thirds of the Senate present concurring,) That the treaty shall have no force or effect whatever, as it
relates to any of said tribes, nations or bands of New York Indians, nor
shall it be understood tiat the Senate have assented to any of the contracts
connected with it until the same, with the amendments herein proposed, is
submitted and fully and fairly explained by a commissioner of the United
States to each of said tribes or bands, separately assembled in council, and
they have given their free and voluntary assent thereto; and if one or more
of said tribes or bands, when consulted as aforesaid, shall freely assent to
said treaty as amended, and to their contract connected therewith, it shall
be binding and obligatory upon those so assenting, although other or others

OCTOBER TERM:, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the lands set apart for them within five years, worked ipso
facto, under the third article of the treaty, a forfeiture of
their interest.
1. So far as concerns the legal aspects of the case, it is
of said bands or tribes may not-give their assent, and thereby cease to be
parties thereto: Provided, further, That if any portion or part of said
Indians do not emigrate the President shall retain a proper proportion of
said sum of four hundred thousand dollars, and shall also deduct from the
quantity of land allowed west of the Mississippi such number of acres as
will leave to each emigrant three hundred and twenty acres only.
The Senate proceeded, by unanimous consent, to the consideration of
said resolutions.
On the question to agree thereto,
33
It was determined in the affirmative, 4 Yeas .......................
Nays .................
..
2
Ordered, that the secretary lay this resolution befor
the United States.

the President of

-Pro mation of the Treaty of Bufegalo Creel:.
Martin Van Buren, President of the United States of America, to all and
singular to whom these presents shall come, Greeting:
Whereas a treaty was made and concluded at Buffalo, in the State of New
York, on the fifteenth day of January, one thousand eight hundred and
thirty-eight, by Ransom H. Gillet, a commissioner on the part of the United
States, and the chiefs, headmen and warriors of the several tribes of the
New York Indians, assembled in council;
And whereas the Senate did, by a resolution of the eleventh of June, one
thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight, advise and consent to the ratification of said treaty with certain amendments, which treaty so amended is
word for word as follows, to wit. . ..
And whereas the Senate did, on the 25th of March, one thousand eight
hundred and forty, resolve " that in the opinion of the Senate the treaty
between the United States and the Six Nations of New York Indians,
together with the amendments proposed by the Senate of the 11th of June,
1838, have been satisfactorily acceded to and approved of by said tribes,
the Seneca tribe included, and that in the opinion of the Senate the President is authorized to proclaim the treaty as in full force and operation: "
Now, therefore, be it known'that I, Martin Van Buren, President of the
United Staes of America, do, in pursuance of the resolufions of the Senate
of the eleventh of June, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight, and
twenty-fifth day of- March, one thousand eight hundred and forty, accept,
ratify and confirm. said treaty, and every article and clause thereof.
In testimony whereof I have caused the seal of the United States to be
hereunto affixed, having signed the same with my'jand.

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.

11

r

Opinion of the Court.

unnecessary to inquire whether the government received from
the Indians an adequate consideration for its reservation to

them of the lands in Kansas.

The findings upon this point

are in substance that some of the New York Indians, between
Done at this city of Washington this fourth day of April, one thousand
eight hundred and forty, and of the Independence of the United States the
sixty-third.
M. VAN BUREN.
By the President:
[SEAL.]

JOHN FORSYTH,

Secretary of State.
11. The President of the United States never prescribed any time for the
removal of the claimants or any of them to the lands or any of them set
apart by the treaty of Buffalo Creek further than is shown in these findings.
Many of the Indians have protested against any removal. The Onondagas have officially declared that they would not remove, and treaties
subsequent to that of 1838 appear in the statutes in relation to this subject-matter. The Tuscaroras still occupy their reservation in New York.
After the amended treaty had been assented to, the Senecas, the Cayugas
and the Onoudagas residing with them, and the Tuscaroras, continued to
protest against the treaty, the Senecas asserting that their declaration of
assent was invalid, and that they would never emigrate but on compulsion,
and requesting (as did also some Onondaga chiefs) that no appropriation
be made to carry the treaty into effect. These protests were continued even
after the treaty was ratified and until the treaty of May 20, 1842, was made.
More than five years from the ratification of the treaty of Buffalo Creek the
Tuscarora chiefs declared that the tribe would not part with its reservation
nor remove from it, whatever a few individuals might do. The Indian protests against the treaty were based upon the following allegations: (a)
That the treaty had been brought about by corrupt means operating upon
Indians of influence in their tribes, and put in motion by an agent of the
preemption owners: (b) that a considerable majority of the Indians
wished to remain in New York.
After the treaty of May 20, 1842, was ratified, the lands and improvements on the Buffalo Creek reservation in New York were appraised, and
the Indians thereon gradually withdrew to the Cattaraugus and Alleghany
reservations in New York.
12. Prior to November 24, 1845, some of the New York Indians had applied to the Indian Office for the proper steps to be taken for their emigration. It was not deemed expedient to enter into any arrangements for this
purpose until the department believed that a sufficient number to justify
the expenditure incident to the appointment of au agent was prepared to
remove,
No provision was made for the actual removal of more than about 260
individuals of the claimant tribes as contemplated by the treaty of Buffalo

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

1810 and 1816, with the permission of the President and with
some actual aid from the government in making explorations,
bought of the -Menorninee and Winnebago nations all their
right, title and claim to about 500,000 acres of land in WisCreek and as shown below. Of this number only 32 ever received patents
or certificates of allotment of the lands mentioned in the first article of the
treaty, and the amount allotted to those 32 was at the 6ate of 320 acres each,
or 10,240 acres hi all.
In 1845 Abram Hogeboom represented to the government of the United
States that a number of the New York Indians, parties to the treaty of 1838,
desired to remove to the Kansas lands, and upon such representation, and
in conformity with such desire, said Hogeboom was appointed special agent
of the government to remove the sa;d Indians to Kansas.
The sum of 59,464.08 of an amount appropriated by Congress was expended in the removal of a party of New York Indians under Hogebooni's
direction in 184b.
From Hogeboom's muster-roll, in the Indian Office, it appears that 271
were mustered for emigration. The roll shows that of this number 73 did
not leave New York with the party; 191 only arrived in Kansas, June 15,
1846; 17 other Indians arrived subsequently; 82 died and 91 returned to
New York.
It does .not appear that any of the thirty-two Indians to whom allotments
were made settled permanently in Kansas.
13. A council of the Senecas, the Cayugas and Onondagas liviug with
them, and the Tuscaroras was called by the Indian Commissioner, to be held
at Cattaraugus, June 2, 1846, to learn the final wislies of the Indians as to
emigration. The commissioner who was sent on the part of the United
States reported that the meeting was well attended, but that the chiefs were
unanimous in the opinion that scarcely any Indians who wished to emnigrate
remained. The commissioner also reported that lie held an enrollment for
two f till days, but that only seven persons requested to be enrolled for emigration, and these vouched for five more as wishing to go.
14. The United States, after the conclusion of the treaty of Bualo
Creek, surveyed and made part of the public domain the lands at Green Bay
ceded by the claimants, and sold or otherwise disposed of and conveyed the
same and received the consideration therefor, except as in these fiding-4
shown to the contrary. The reservation to" the first Christian and Orchard
parties of Oneida Indians," which Was set aside for them by defendant at
Green Bay, Wisconsin, contained 65,540 acres, all of which has been allotted
in severalty and reserved for school purposes except 84.08 acres.
The Stockbridge Indians acquired a reservation in Wisconsin of 1,83
acres, some of which has been allotted in severalty. (19Stat. L. 955; 11 Stat.
L. 663, 679; 16 Stat. L. 404.) The United States never acquired any lauds
in the State of New York from the Indians of that State. The lands ceded
in that State by the Indians thereof were ceded for consideration to the

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

consin in consideration of $2000, chiefly in goods. This purchase was made for the benefit of the Six Nations and the
St. Regis, Stockbridg and Munsee tribes.
Under a similar permission given by the Secretary of War,
State or to the Ogden Land Company, so called. There may have been
some small cessions to individuals, but there were none to the United
States.
15. Upon the ratification of the Oneida treaty of February 3, 1838, the
present Oneida reservation in Wisconsin was surveyed, containing about
65,000 acres. After the ratification of the treaty of Buffalo Creek the
United States surveyed, made part of the public domain, and sold or otherwise disposed of the tract at Green Bay, the Indian title to which had been
ceded by that treaty, except the said Oneida reservation. This was treated
as If it had been the reservation excepted from the cession in article 1 of
that treaty, which latter reservation was never surveyed, and the bounds of
which as given in the said article are not the same as those of the former
reservation, although the two reservations cover for the most part the same
ground and are of about the same area.
The lands west of the Mississippi secured to the claimants by the treaty
of Buffalo Creek have been since that treaty surveyed arid made a part of
tile public domain and sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States,
which received the consideration therefor; and the said lands were thereafter and now are included within the territorial limits of the State of Kansas.
The price realized by the United States for such of said lands as were sold
at the rate of $1.34 per acre, while the cost of surveying, etc., the same was
at the rate of about 12 cents per acre, making the net price realized by the
United States about $1.22 per acre.
16. By treaty with the Tonawanda band of the Senecas, numbering 650
individuals, the United States, November 5, 1857, in consideration of certain releases of claims under the' treaties of 1838 and 1842, agreed to pay and
invest, and did pay and invest, for said band the sum of 5256,000.
The sum of $256,000 was equivalent to $1 per acre for the lands in Kansas to which the Tonawandas would have been entitled had they all emigrated under the treaty of Buffalo Creek, and also to a part of the sum of
$400,000 proportioned to their numbers as compared with the whole number
of New York Indians, according to the schedule in the treaty. A portion
of the fund, all of which was paid and invested as agreed, was applied to
the purchase in fee of 7,549.73 acres of the.Tonawanda reservation in New
York for the tribe's benefit, and the Tonawandas still reside thereon.
17. After March 21, 1859, an order of the Secretary of the Interior was
made which directed that the tract of land in Kansas Territory known as
the New York Indian reserve be surveyed, with a view of allotting a half
section each to such of the New York Indians as had removed there under
treaty provisions, after which the residue was to become public domain.
Thirty-two New York Indians were found to be resident on the land, and

OCTOBER TERI -,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

and on September 23, 1822, the Menominees, in consideration
of $3000 in goods, made. a similar cession of another tract,
containing about 5,000,000 acres, to the Stockbridge, Oneida,
Tuscarora, St. Regis and Munsee nations. Both of these
cessions were approved by the President. Thereafter, some
of the New York Indians removed to and took possession of
the lands in Wisconsin.
It seems, however, that the Menominees were dissatisfied
with and repudiated the arrangement, and thereupon entered
into two treaties with the United States, by the first of which
(August 11, 1827, 7 Stat. 303) they agreed to refer the matter
to the President, and by the second of which (February 8,
1831, 7 Stat. 342) protesting that they were under no obligations to recognize any claim of the New York Indians to any
portion of their country, they agreed to set apart as a home
for the several tribes of the New York Indians about 500,000
acres of land, for which the United States agreed to pay them
820,000, to be applied to their use. By these treaties a large
quantity of other lands was also ceded by the Menominees
directly .o the United States, three townships of which were
set aside for the Stockbridges, Mlunsees and Brothertowns.
It sufficiently appears from this statement that the Indians
were possessed of some sort of title or interest in a large
quantity of lands in Wisconsin, which the government was
desirous of acquiring, and for which it was willing to make a
large cession in the then unnamed, almost unknown, and
wholly unsettled Territory, which was subsequently admitted
to the Union as the State of Kansas. The consideration was
evidently treated as a valuable one, and whether adequate or
not would have been sufficient to support a deed between priallotments were made to them. After this and before the proclamation of
the President of said lands as part of the public domain (December 3 and
17, 1860,) some of the New York Indians employed counsel to protect and
prosecute their claims in the premises, asserting, in the powers of attorney,
that the United States had seized upon the said lands, contrary to the obligations of said treaty,, and would not permit the said Indians to occupy
the same or make any disposition thereof. The said Indians have since
asserted their said claims.
(The remaining findings are deemed to be immaterial.)

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

vate parties. Probably, however, the main inducement to the
cession was the agreement of the Indians to remove beyond
the Mississippi, and whether the agreement of the government
to set apart for them a permanent home in this Territory was
supported by any other consideration which would be deemed
a valuable one between private parties, is wholly immaterial
so far as the treaty obligations of the Government are concerned.
2. The first and one of the most important questions in the
case turns upon the nature of the title acquired by the Indians
under the treaty. Was it a grant im presenti, or merely an
agreement to set apart for the Indians at some future time
the lands in question, provided that they would remove
thither within the five years fixed by the third article of the
treaty ?
By the first article "the several tribes of New York Indians
hereby cede and 'elinquish to the United States all

their right, title and interest to the lands secured to them at
Green Bay;" and by the second article "in consideration of
the United
. .
the above cession and relinquishment,
containing
a
tract
of
country,
to
set
apart"
States agree
1,824,000 acres of land, described by metes and bounds, "as
a permanent home for all the New York Indians,

.

.

.

to

have and to hold the same in fee simple to the said tribes or
nations of Indians, by patent from the President of the United
States, issued in conformity with the provisions of the third
section" of the act of May 28, 1830, "with full power and
authority in the said Indians to divide said lands among the
different tribes, nations or bands in severalty, with the right
to sell and convey to and from each other." By the third
article "such of the tribes of the New YQrk Indians as do not
accept and agree to remove to the country set apart for their
new homes within five years

.

.

.

shall forfeit all interest

in the lands so set apart to the United States."
The proper construction to be placed upon similar clauses
was the subject of consideration by this court in several cases
before the railroad land grant cases, and the conclusion
reached that if, from all the language of the statute or treaty,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

it was apparent that Congress intended-to convey an immediate interest, it will be construed as a grant in)raxsenti.
In the case of Rutherford v. Greene, 2 Wheat. 196, 198, the
State of North Carolina passed an act in 1782 "for the relief
of the officers and soldiers in the continental line," and in the
fifth section enacted that 25,000 acres of land "shall be allotted
for, and given to, Major General Nathanael Greene, his heirs
or assigns, within the bounds of the land reserved for the use
of the army, to be laid off byf the aforesaid conmizsioners;"
and a further section (seventh) provideA- that the commissioners should "grant certificates to such persons as shall
appear to them to have a right to the same." It was contended on the part of the appellant that these words (rave
nothing; that they were in the future and not in the present
tense, and indicated an intention to give in future, but created
no present obligation on the State nor present interest in General Greene. But it was held that, as the act was to be performed in future, the words directing it were necessarily in
the future tense, and that, although the land was undefined,
the survey afterwards made in pursuance of the act gave precision to the title and attached it to the land surveyed.
In reply to the argument that to make this an operative
gift the words "are hereby given" should have been used,
Mr. Chief Justice Marshall observed: "Were it even true
that these words would make the gift more explicit, which is
not admitted, it surely cannot be necessary now to say that
the validity of a legislative act depends, in no degree, on its
containing the technical terms used in a conveyance. Nothing can be more apparent than the intention of the legislature
to order their commissioners to make the allotment, and to
give the land, when allotted, to General Greene."
This case was followed in United States v. Brooks, 10 How.
442, in which a treaty with the Caddo Indians provided
that certain persons "shall have their right to the said four
leagues of land reserved for them, and their heirs and assigns
forever. The said lands to be taken out of the lands ceded
to the United States by the said Caddo nation of Indiafns, as
expressed in the treaty 'to -which these articles are supple-

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES
Opinion of the Court.

mentary, and the four leagues of land shall be laid qf;" etc.
It was held that these words gave to the reservees a fee
simple to all rights which the Caddoes had in those lands, as
fully as any patent from the government could make one.
Fremont v. United States, 17 How. 542, was a case of a
Mexican grant of a tract of land known as "Las Mariposas,"
within certain undefined boundaries. The grant was of ten
square leagues, subject to certain conditions, and was to be
made definite by a future survey. The grant purported to
convey a present and immediate interest, in consideration of
previous public services, and it was decided to be in presenti
upon the authority of Rutherford v. Greene, 2 Wheat. 196that the conditions were conditions subsequent, but that noncompliance with them did not amount to a forfeiture of the
grant. Two members of the court dissented, being of opinion
that the case was controlled by those of United States v.
Boisderg, 11 How. 63, 96; Glenn v. Vknited States, 13 How.
250, 259, and Vilenont v. United States, 13 How. 261.
In the cases arising under the railroad land grants, of which
Schulenberg v. _tarriman, 21 Wall. 44, is a leading one, the
language of the granting clause was in the present tense,
"there be, and hereby is, granted," etc. ; and it has always
been held that these were grants in prwsenti, although the
lands could not be identified until the map of the definite
location of the road was filed, when the title, which was previously imperfect, acquired precision and became attached to
the land. The doctrine of this case has been affirmed so
many times that the question is no longer open to argument
here. Lessieur v. Price,12 How. 59; Leavenworth, -Lawrence
&o. Railroad v. United States, 92 U. S. 733; .Missouri, _Kansas & Texas Railway Co. v. -ansas Pacific Railway, 97 U. S.
491; Railway Company v. Alling, 99 U. S. 463, 475; St. Paul
& Pacific Railroad v. Zorthern.Pacific Railroad,139 U. S.
1; Deseret Salt Company v. Tarpey, 142 U. S.241.
The same doctrine has also been applied to grants of swamp
and overflowed lands by the acts of September 28, 1850, and
Railroad Company v. Smith, 9 Wall. 95;
June 10, 1852.
Wright v. Roseberry, 121 U. S. 488.
VOL. CLXX-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

One or two cases, which apparently hold a contrary doctrine, are readily reconcilable. That of Heydeqfeldt v. Daney
Gold & Silver .Mining Co., 93 U.-S. 634, arose under the school
land grant contained in the act of March 21, 186-, c. 36, enabling the people of Nevada to form a state government. 13
Stat. 30. The seventh section of the act provided "that sections numbered 16 and 36 in every township . . . shall
be, and are hereby, granted,to said State." These words were
held, under the peculiar language of the act, not to constitute
a grant, in presenti, but an inchoate and incomplete grant
until the premises were surveyed by the United States, and
the survey properly approved. "We do not seek," said the
court, "to depart from this sound rule;" (in Schulenberq v.
Harrinan,) "but, in this instance, words of qualification
restrict the operation of those of present grant." "A grant,
operating at once, and attaching prior to the surveys by the
United States, would deprive Congress of the power of disposing of any part of the lands in Nevada, until they were
segregated from those granted. . . . Until the status of
the lands was fixed by a survey, and they were capable of
identification, Congress reserved absolute power over them."
In Hall v. Russell, 101 U. S.503, the language of the grant
was "that there shall be, and hereby is, granted to every white
settler or occupant of the public lands," and it was held that,
as the land was not identified and the grantee was not named,
there could not be a present grant. "There cannot be a grant
unless there is a grantee, and consequently there cannot be a
present grant unless there is a present grantee. If, then, the
law making the grant indicates a future grantee and not a
present one, the grant will take effect in the future and not
presently. In all the cases in which we have given these
words the effect of an immediate and present transfer, it will
be found that the law has designated a grantee qualified to
take, according to the terms of the law, and actually in existence at the time."
In the case of Rice v. Railroad Co., 1 Black, 358, the granting. clause of the act was in the present tense, but there was a
further clause expressly declaring that no title should vest nor

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

any patent issue till certain portions 'of the road had been
completed.
From this summary of cases it is evident that the language
of the granting clause is not conclusive, but the intent of
Congress must be gathered from the whole scope of the
instrument, and the facts to which it was intended to apply.
Applying the principle of the cases above cited to the one
under consideration, we are of the opinion that the grant in
question was intended to invest a present legal title in the
Indians, for the following reasons:
First. There is no doubt that the cession by the Indians of
their ipterest in the Wisconsin lands, in the first article of the
treaty, was an absolute, unconditional and immediate grant,
and it is improbable that the Indians would have consented,
or that the United States would desire, that they should
accept from the Government a mere promise to set apart for
them in the future the tract in Kansas. If we are to adopt
such a construction it would follow that the title of the Indians,
not only to' the tract in Kansas, but to the lands in Wisconsin,
was made dependent upon their removal to their new home.
While it might be reasonably contended that their failure to
remove should result in a cancellation of the treaty and a
restoration to them of their rights in the Wisconsin lands,
that construction is precluded by the language of the first
article, which contains a present and irrevocable grant of the
Wisconsin lands, and puts it beyond their power to revoke
the bargain. The object of the treaty was evidently to effect
an exchange of lands in pursuance of the act of May 28, 1830,
c. 148, 4 Stat. 411, the third section of which provides "that
in the making of any such exchange or exchanges it shall and
may be lawful for the President solemnly to assure the tribe
or nation with which the exchange is made that the United
States will forever secure and guaranty to them and their
heirs or successors the country so exchanged with them; and,
if theyprefer it, that the United States will cause a patent orgrant to be made. and executed to them for the same: Pro
vided always, That such lands shall revert to the United States
if the Indians become extinct or abandon the same."

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Second. The lands covered by the treaty were identified,
describ-d by metes and bounds, and an appropriation was
made to aid in the immediate removal of the Indians to their
new home. There was no uncertainty as to the lands granted,
or as to the identity of the grantees, which, in the case of
Iieydenfeldt v. .Daney 3fining Co., 93 U. S. 634, was held to
turn it into a grant i.fuhtcro.
Third. While the granting clause is in the future tense, an
agreement to set apart, the labendimn clause is in the present
tense: "To have and to hold the same in fee simple to the
said tribes, or nations of Indians, by patent from the President
of the United States, issued in conformity with the provisions
of the third section of the act entitled 'An act to provide for
an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in any of the
States or Territories, and for their removal west of the Mississippi,' approved on the 28th day of May, 1830, with full power
and authority in the said Indians to divide said land among
the different tribes, nations or bands, in severalty, with the
right to sell and convey to and from each other." The object
of the liabendum clause is said to be "to set down again the
name of the grantee, the estate that is to be made and limited,
or the time that the grantee shall have in the thing granted,
or demised, and to what use." Sheppard's Touchstone, 74.
It may explain, -enlarge or qualify, but cannot contradict, or
defeat, the estate granted by the premises, and where the
grant is uncertain, or indefinite concerning the estate intended
to be vested in the grantee, the habendunm performs the office
of defining, qualifying or controlling it. Jones on Real Prop.
ยง 563 ; Devlin on Deeds, ยง 215.
In this case if the habendum. clause were alone considered,
there could be no doubt whatever that the Indians would take
a present title to a fee simple. There is certainly no conflict
between the granting and habendunm clauses. Admitting that
the former, if standing alone, would engender a doubt as to
when the grant should take effect, the habendtrm clause removes that doubt, and imports a present surrender of a defined
tract. The addition of the words, "by a patent from the
President of the United States," is immaterial, since it refers

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of .the Court.

to, and is intended to be construed in connection with the
third section of the act of May 28, 1830, in which the issue
of a patent is merely spoken of as an optional or preferential method of acquiring full title to the land.
Fourth'. By Article X a special provision was made for the
Senecas by_ which the easterly part of the tract was set apart
for them, and a deed made by them of their New York lands
to Og len and Fellows was recognized and approved of by the
Government, and the consideration invested for their use.
And by Article XIV another special tract of the lands granted
was set off for the Tuscaroras, who conveyed to the United
States 5000 acres of land in New York to be held in trust for
them, and another deed to Ogden and Fellows of lands in
New York was assented to and sanctioned by the Government.
These proceedings, by which these tribes divested themselves of their title to lands in New York, indicate an intention on the part, both of the Government and the Indians,
that they should take immediate possession of the tracts set
apart for them in Kansas.
3. There is, however, another consideration which must not
be overlooked in this connection, and which raises the only
difficult point in the interpretation of the treaty. It is found
by the court below (finding 10) that, when the treaty was
laid before the Senate for ratification, June 11, 1838, the
third, fourth, fifth, sixth, ninth and nineteenth of the original
articles were stricken out, several others were amended by
eliminating particular clauses, a new article was added as
Article XV, and the ratification made subject to the following condition:
"Provided &lways, and be it further resolved, (two-thirds of
the Senate present concurring,) That the treaty shall have no
force or effect whatever, as it relates to any of said tribes,.
nations or bands of New York Indians, nor shall it be understood that the Senate have assented to any of the contracts
connected with it until the same, with the amendments herein
proposed, is submitted and fully and fairly explained by a
commissioner of the United States to each of said tribes or
bands, separately assembled in council, and they have given

OCTOBER TERf, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

their free and voluntary assent thereto; and if one or more
of said tribes or bands, when consulted as aforesaid, shall
freely assent to said treaty as amended, and to their contract
connected therewith, it shall be binding and obligatory upon
those so assenting, although other or others of said bands or
tribes may not give their assent, and thereby cease to be
parties thereto: Providedfurther, That if any portion or
part of said Indians do not emigrate the President shall retain
a proper proportion of said sum of four hundred thousand
dollars, and shall also deduct from the quantity of land allowed west of the Mississippi such number of acres as will
leave to each emigrant three hundred and twenty acres only."
Now,if the above proviso (that if any portion or part of
said Indians do not emigrate, the President shall
.
.
deduct from the quantity of land allowed west of the Mississippi
such numbers of acres as will leave to each emigrant 320 acres
only) be considered a part of the treaty and to be respected as
such, it would be difficult to avoid the conclusion that the
grant of Kansas lands was not intended to take immediate effect, since the power to deduct (differing in that respect from
the power to forfeit contained in the third article) would
show an intention that the grant as a whole should not take
immediate effect, and ivould imply that it was extended only
to 320 acres to each emigrant. If the allotment is to be
treated as one of 320 acres for each emigrant and not of the
entire tract as specified in article two, the residue, of course,
belongs to the Government.
But did this resolution ever become operative? It is not
found in the original nor in the published copy of the treaty,
nor in the proclamation of the President, which recites that
the Senate did, by a resolution of the 11th of June, 1838,
"advise and consent to the ratification of said
treaty with
certain amendments; which treaty, as so amended, is word
for word as fbllows, to wit:" (Here follows a copy of the
treaty as published in 7 Stat. 550.) But no allusion is here
made to the final resolution or its proviso. This is the more
remarkable, as every other amendment made by the Senate
appears in the treaty as published, while no reference what-

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

reason probably being that the
ever is made to this -the
resolution was mainly directory in its character, requiring
that the treaty be. fully and fairly explained by the commissioner to each of the tribes separately assembled in council,
and that they should give their free and voluntary assent
thereto. The proviso may also have been well considered as
merely directory to the President, but in any event it is difficult to see how it can be regarded as part of the treaty or as
limiting at all the terms of the grant.
The power to make treaties is vested by the Constitution in
the President and Senate, and, while this proviso was adopted
by the Senate, there is no evidence that it ever received the
sanction or approval of the President. It cannot be considered as a legislative act, since the power to legislate is vested
in the President, Senate and House of Representatives. There
is something, too, which shocks the conscience in the idea that
a treaty can be put forth as embodying the terms of an arrangement with a foreign power or an Indian tribe, a material provision of which is unknown to one of the contracting
parties, and is kept in the background to be used by the other
only when the exigencies of a particular case may demand it.
The proviso never appears to have been called to the attention of the tribes, who would naturally assume that the treaty,
embodied in the Presidential proclamation, contained all the
terms of the arrangement. It is true that the proclamation
recites that the Senate did, on March 25, 1840, resolve that
the treaty, " together with the amendments proposed by the
Senate of the 11th of June, 1838, have been satisfactorily
acceded to and approved of by said tribes," but, as the proclamation purported to set forth the treaty "word for word "
as so amended, of course the amendments referred to were
those embodied in the treaty as published in the proclamation.
The case of Doe v. Braden, 16 How. 635, relied upon by
the Government in this connection, is not in point. In this
case, in the ratification by the King of Spain of the treaty
by which Florida was ceded to the United States, it was admitted that certain grants of land in Florida were annulled

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

and declared to be void, and it was held that a written declaration, annexed to a treaty at the time of its ratification, was
as obligatory as if the provision had been inserted in the body
of the treaty itself. The question in the case was whether
the king had power to annul the grant, which was considered
a political and not a judicial question; but, as the annulling
clause was inserted in the ratification and published in both
countries as part of the treaty, there was no question whatever of conceahnent.
4. Assuming that the Indians took an immediate title to
the lands reserved for them in Kansas, we are next to inquire
whether such title has been legally forfeited. By the third'
article of the treaty it was further agreed "that such of the
tribes of the New York Indians as do not accept and agree
to remove to the country set apart for their new homes within
five years or such other time as the President may from time
to time appoint, shall forfeit all interest in the lands so set
apart to the United States."
Acting in pursuance of the treaty and of the assumed right
of forfeiture, the Government surveyed, and made part of the
public domain, the lands at Green Bay ceded by the claimants
and sold or otherwise disposed of, and conveyed the same and
received the consideration therefor, except a reservation of
about 65,000 acres to the Oneidas. The lands west of the
Mississippi (the Kansas lands) were, after the treaty of Buffalo
Creek, surveyed and made a part of the public domain, and
sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States, which received the consideration therefor, and these lands were thereafter and now are included within the territorial limits of the
State of Kansas.
In the view we have taken of the granting clauses of this
treaty, the provisions of the third article created a condition
subsequent, upon a breach of which the Government might
declare a forfeiture, but had no power by simple executive
action to reenter, take possession of the lands and sell them.
A distinction is drawn by the authorities between the case of
a private grantor, who may reenter in the case of the breach
of a condition subsequent, and the Government, which can

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.

25

Opinion of the Court.

only repossess itself of lands by legislatie or judicial action.
The distinction was first clearly drawn by this court in the
case of United States v. Repentig2 y, 5 Wall. 211, 267, in
which the court said: "We agree that before a forfeiture or
reunion with the piiblic domain could take place, a judicial
inquiry should be instituted, or, in the technical language of
the common law, office found, or its legal equivalent. A legislative act, directing the possession and appropriation of the
land, is equivalent to office found. The mode of asserting or
of assuming the forfeited grant is subject to the legislative
authority of the Government. It may be after judicial investigation, or by taking possession directly under the authority
of the Government, without these preliminary proceedings."
Practically the same language was used with reference to a
grant of lands in aid of a railroad in Schulenberg v. Hlarriman, 21 Wall. 44, 63 ; in Farnsworth v. 3finnesota & Pacific
]Raiboad, 92 U. S. 49; and in Van "Wyck v. IZnevals, 106
U. S. 360. In St. Louis, _7'on Mountain &c. Railway Co. v.
Mltagee, 115 U. S. 469, it was said that "legislation to be sufficient" (for that purpose) "must manifest an intention by Congress to reassert title and resume possession. As it is to take
the place of a suit by the United States to enforce a forfeiture,
and a judgment therein establishing the right, it should be
direct, positive and free from all doubt or ambiguity." See,
also, Pacflc Railway Co. v. United States, 124: U. S. 124.
As there is no pretence that any such action as is contemplated by these cases was ever taken, it necessarily follows
that, if an estate in fee simple vested in the Indians, the proceedings subsequently taken would not revest the title in the
Government.
5. But even if it were conceded that the rights of the
Indians were subject to forfeiture by executive action, it is by
no means certain that the contingency ever happened which
authorized such forfeiture ; or, if a forfeiture did result, it
was not waived by the subsequent action of Congress. A
condition, when relied upon to work a forfeiture, is construed
with great strictness. The grantor must stand on his legal
rights, and any ambiguity in his deed or defect in the evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

dence offered to show a breach will be taken most strongly
against him, and in favor of tfie grantee. A condition will
not be extended beyond its express terms by construction.
The grantor must bring himself within these terms to entitle
him to a forfeiture. Jones on Real Prop. ยง 678, 679.
It will be observed that the forfeiture is conditioned, not
upon the actual removal of the Indians to the Kansas reservation, but upon their accepting and agreeing to removal within
five years, or such other time as the President might from
time to time appoint. The tribes for whom the Kansas lands
were intended as a future home were the Senecas, Onondagas,
Cayugas, Tuscaroras, Oneidas, St. Regis, Stockbridges, Mlunsees
and Brothertowns, residing in the State of New York.
Of these the Senecas and certain of the Cayugas and Onondagas residing among them expressly agreed in Article X "to
remove from the State of New York to their new homes
within five years, and to continue to reside there."
By Article XIII the Oneidas also agreed to remove as soon
as they could make satisfactory arrangements for the purchase
-of their lands at Oneida.
By Article XIV the Tuscaroras also agreed to accept the
country set apart for them, and to remove there within five
years, and to continue to reside there.
In a supplemental treaty made with the St. Regis Indians
on February 13, 1838, it was agreed that any of them who
wished to do so should be at liberty to remove to Kansas at
any time thereafter within the time specified in the treaty,
but the Government should not compel them to remove.
It thus appears that, as to three of these tribes, there has
been a technical performance so far as a forcible removal
was concerned.
It further appears from the eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth
findings that the President never fixed any time for their removal, as was contemplated in the third article; that many
of the Indians protested against any removal; that the Onondagas officially declared they would not remove; that"After the amended treaty had been assented to, the
Senecas, the Cayugas and the Onondagas residing with

NEW YORK INDIANS -v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

them, and the, Tuscaroras continued to protest against the
treaty, the Senecas asserting that their declaration of assent
was invalid, and that they would never emigrate but on coinpulsion, and requesting (as did also some Onondaga chiefs)
that no appropriation be made to carry the treaty into effect.
These protests were continued even after the treaty was ratified and until the treaty of May 20, 1842, was made. More
than five years from the ratification of the treaty of Buffalo
Creek the Tuscarora chiefs declared that the tribe would not
part with its reservation nor remove from it, whatever a few
individuals might do."
It further appeared that"No provision was made for the actual removal of more
than about 260 individuals of the claimant tribes. Of this
number only 32 ever received patents or certificates of allotment of the lands mentioned in the first article of the treaty,
and the amount allotted to those 32 was at the rate of 320
acres each, or 10,240 acres in all.
"In 1845 Abram Hogeboom represented to the Government
of the.United States that a number of the New York Indians,
parties to the treaty of 1838, desired to remove to the Kansas
lands, and upon such representation, and in conformity with
such desire, said Hogeboom was appointed special agent of
the Government to remove the said Indians to Kansas.
"The sum of $9464.08 of an amount appropriated by Congress was expended in the removal of a patty of New York
Indians under iHogeboom's direction in 1846.
"From Hogeboom's muster-roll, in the Indian Office, it appears that 271 were mustered for emigration. The roll shows
that of this number 73 did not leave New York with the
party; 191 only arrived in Kansas, June 15, 1846; 17 other
Indians arrived subsequently; 82 died and 94 returned to
New York.
"It does not appear that any of the 32 Indians to whom
allotments were made settled permanently in Kansas."
It is further found that " A council of the Senecas, the Cayugas and Onondagas living with them, and the Tuscaroras was called by the Indian

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Commissioner, to be held at Cattaraugus, June 2, 1846, to
learn the final wishes of the Indians as to emigration. The
commissioner who was sent on the part of the United States
reported that the meeting was well attended, but that the
chiefs were unanimous in the opinion that scarcely any
Indians who wished to emigrate remained."
In these findings lie the main strength of the defence.
It thus appears that a part had accepted and agreed to
remove ; that a few had actually removed ; that others had
stipulated that they should not be compelled to remove, and
-still others protested against the treaty and refused to remove.
If the acceptance and signing of the treaty is not to be considered in itself as an acceptance and agreement to remove,
as to which we express no opinion, there was a technical
compliance with the conditions of Article III by a part of the
Indians, and a flat refusal upon the part of others. But, after
all, a mere agreement to accept and remove, though probably
sufficient to prevent a legal forfeiture, was of no practical
value, and would have availed the Government nothing'
except as it might have justified a forcible removal had the
Government elected to take that course. No provision was
made as to the manner in which the removal was to be
effected, but from the dependent character of the Indians,
and from the appropriation of $400,000, made for that purpose, it is evident that it was contemplated that the removal
should be made by the Government itself. It was so held by
this court in Fellows v. Blac/ksmith, 19 How. 366, and we see
no reason to question the propriety of that ruling. Whether
the Government could have removed them forcibly was not
decided in that case, and is not in this.
The difficult point in the case, in its equitable aspect, is
whether the protests of the Indians and their final refusal
to remove in 1846 do not estop them from claiming the benefit
of the reservation made for them. This is the main defence
in the case. Upon the other hand, no time was fixed by the
President for their removal; no formal notice was ever given
them to remove; but at various times, and particularly at the
council held at Cattaraugus, June 2, 1846, called by the com-

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

missioners to learn the final wishes of the Indians as to emigration, the chiefs of the four tribes present were unanimous
in the opinion that scarcely any Indians, who wished to
emigrate, remained. This action constitutes practically the
only claim of forfeiture. There is no finding that the other
five tribes did refuse. Tile practical application which counsel
seek to make of this partial refusal is to justify the Government, not only in appropriating the Kansas lands, but, inferentially, in failing to make any other compensation to the
Indians for the seizure and sale of the Wisconsin lands. In
view of this, it seems to us that, to justify a forfeiture, it
should appear that the repudiation was as formal, as broad
and as unequivocal as the acceptance; that the President
should have fixed a time forthe removal, and should at least
have made a formal tender of performance. If it be said
that, considering the number of the tribes and the character
of the individuals he was dealing with, this was impracticable,
it may also be said that the Government had undertaken to
negotiate a treaty with them severally and collectively, and if
it sought to enforce a forfeiture of rights originating in such
treaty, it should have given formal notice to that effect, that
the Indians might understand that they were risking the loss
of all compensation for their Wisconsin lands by refusing to
emigrate.
But however this may be, we think the fact that the Government never insisted upon this as an estbppel, and never
treated the Indians as having lost their rights in the Kansas
lands, is a sufficient answer to the claim of abandonment.
After their refusal at the council in 1846, nothing appears to
have been done until 1854, when Kansas had begun to feel
the impress of a sudden and large immigration from the East,
and an act (act of May 30, 1854, c. 59) known as the KansasNebraska act was passed, creating the Territory of Kansas,
in which Congress defined the limits of the new Territory,
10 Stat. 277, 28-4, and, after giving the boundary lines, which
included the New York Indian lands"Provided, That nothing in this act contained shall be
construed to impair the rights of person or property now

OCTOBER TERTVf, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

pertaining to the Indians in said Territory so long as such
rights shall remain unextinguished by treaty between the
United States and such Indians, or to include any Territory,
which by treaty with any 1ndian tribe, is not, without the consent of said tribes, to be included within the territorial limits
or jurisdiction of any State or Territory; but all such territory shall be excepted out of the boundaries and constitute no
part of the Territory of Kansas until said tribes shall signify
their assent to the President of the United States to be included within the said Territory of Kansas."
The thirty-seventh section of the same act (p. 290) provides"That all treaties, laws and other engagements made by
the Government of the United States with the Indian tribes
inhabiting the Territories embraced within this act shall be
faithfully and rigidly observed, notwithstanding anything
contained in this act."
Even if the first clause of this proviso be limited to the
Indians, then "in said Territory," of whom only thirty-two
were Ne. York Indians, the second clause is subject to no
sudh limitation, and applies to treaties " with any Indian
tribe." The reference here is evidently to the treaty of Buffalo Creek, and is a distinct recognition of the subsisting
validity of such treaty, and a promise on the part of Congress that it shall be faithfully and rigidly observed, " notwithstanding anything contained in this act," and we may
add, notwithstanding the refusal of the Indians to emigrate
and the now claimed forfeiture of their rights.
Some steps were taken to effect a settlement with the Indians, and on November 5, 1857, a treaty was entered into
with the Tonawandas in which, after reciting the treaty of
1838, the surrender of 500,000 acres of lands in Wisconsin,
the agreement to set-apart the lands in Kansas, the Tonawandas relinquished their interest in the Kansas lands, the
United States agreeing to pay them therefor the sum of
$256,000. 11 Stat. 735. But the Tonawandas were but one
of the nine tribes which participated in the treaty, and there
seems to have been no reason' why their claim should have

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

been recognized in preference to others who stood upon the
same footing. Upon the theory of the Government, there
was no reason why this treaty should have been entered into
at all. It was clearly a recognition of the fact that the Tonawandas had rights which, in the nineteen years which had
elapsed since the treaty was made, they had not forfeited.
But this is not all: In the eleventh section of the sundry
civil appropriation act of Mlvarch 3, 1859, c. 82, 11 Stat. 425,
a provision was made for the issue of patents to Indians who
were entitled to separate selection of lands in Kansas, with a
proviso that "nothing herein contained shall be construed to
apply to the New York Indians, or to affect their rights under
the treaty made with them in 1838 at Buffulo Creek." If this
was not a recognition of the fact that the Indians still had
rights, it certainly shows that their alleged rights had been
made the subject of consideration, and were not repudiated
or denied.
But it seems that the matter did not rest here, for in the
same month in which the last above act was passed, namely,
March 21, 1859, the Secretary of the Interior directed the
New York Indian reservation in Kansas to be surveyed, with
a view of allotting a half section each to such of the New
York Indians as had removed there under the treaty, after
which the residue was to become public domain, and in
December, 1860, the Presidenit proclaimed the reservation to
be a part of the public domain.
Notwithstanding this, however, in the act of January 29,
1861, c. 20, 12 Stat. 126, admitting Kansas to the Union as a
-State, it was provided that nothing should be so construed as
to impair the rights of person or property pertaining to the
Indians in said Territory so long as such rights should remain
unextinguished by treaty. It may be said that the provisos
in this act applied only to the Indians in said Territory, but
even if it be so limited, the provision in the act of March 3,
1859, clearly applies only to the New York Indians, whose
rights under the treaty were recognized. Up to the time
these acts were passed certainly there had been no denial of
the right of the Indians to these lands, and no action on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of thq Court.

part of the Government indicating an intent to insist upon the
forfeiture of such right. Every legislative expression tended
toward an acknowledgment of the fact that their claim was
unimpaired.
Our attention has also been called to certain documents
emanating" from the executive and legislative departments of
the Government, some of which tend to strengthen the idea
that these departments never intended to treat the action of
the Indians as a forfeiture of their grant, and acquiesced in
the justice of the claims the Indians now make, and have
already niiade under the treaty of Buffalo Creek. It is insisted
by the Attorney General that, as these documents are not
referred to in the findings of fact by the court below, this
court cannot consider them; but as they are documents of
which we may take judicial notice, we think the fact that
they are not incorporated in the findings of the court will not
preclude us from examining them, with a view of inquiring
whether they have the bearing claimed. Jones v. Uviteld
81ates, 137 U. S. 202, 214.
While it is ordinarily true that this court takes notice of
only such facts as are found by the court below, it may take
notice of matters of common observation, of statutes, records
or public documents, which were not called to its attention,
or other similar matters of judicial cognizance.
As indicating the views of the executive in regard to the
justice of the Indians' claims, a treaty was concluded September,2, 1863, with the New York Indians who had moved to
Kansas under the treaty of 1838, for the purpose of extinguishing their title to lands in that State. This treaty was
based on the treaty of November 5, 1857, with the Tona-

wandas, and was sent to the Senate for-ratification, but action
was suspended upon it "until a treaty could be concluded
with all the New York Indians to arrange all matters between
them and the United States which required adjustment."
Ex. Doe. Y, p. 2, 40th Cong. 3d sess.
In pursuance of this policy, the President, in Mray, 1864,
directed a commissioner to proceed to the State of New York
for the purpose of negotiating a treaty with the New York

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

These Indians had been previously notified on
Indians.
April 26, 1864, by the Secretary of the Interior that he
deemed it proper to advise them, through their agent, "that
it is the desire of the Government to extinguish their title to a
tract of land in Kansas, ceded to them by the treaty of January 15, 1838;" and that a treaty had already been made for
that purpose with the fragments of bands of these Indians
residing in Kansas. Ex. Doc. No. 1, 38th Cong. 2d sess.
p. 188.
The treaty with the Indians living in New York was not
concluded, but in his annual report to Congress the Secretary
of the Interior on December 6, 1864, spoke of the efforts to
extinguish the title of these Indians to the Kansas lands, and
considered their claims as " being undeniable and just." ibid.
This opinion was reiterated by the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs on December 5, 1866, in his annual report. (p. 61.)
In November, 1868, the President again attempted to negotiate a treaty or treaties with the Senecas and other New
York Indians with reference to "their claims arising under
the treaties of 1838 and 1842." Ex. Doe. Y, p. 10, 40th
And thereafter a treaty was concluded
Cong. 3d sess.
December 4, 1868, according to the instructions issued to the
commissioner appointed to negotiate it, by which the United
States agreed to pay the sum of $320 to each Indian, including half-breeds, of the Six Nations in New York and Wis_bid. p. 1.
consin.
The commissioner appointed to negotiate this treaty reported to the Indians in council that "the reason why the
New York Indians had not been removed to their Kansas
reservation was because squatters had obtained possession of
their lands, and the United States was unable to drive them
off, and keep them off." Ibid. p. 10.
This treaty, however, was not ratified by Congress, owing
presumably to the passage of a general law which denied the
right of any Indian tribe or nation to be recognized as an
Act of
independent nation for treaty-making purposes.
566.
Stat.
544,
120,
16
1871,
c.
March 3,
In a communication dated January 29, 1884, addressed to
VOL. cLxx-3

OCTOBER TERM, 189T.
Opinion of the Court.

the Secretary of the Interior for transmission to the Senate,
the Commissioner of Indian Affairs reviewed the claims of the
New York Indians under the treaty of 1838, and adhered to
the opinions of his predecessors, in that there was a failure
on the part of the Government to provide homes for those
who went to Kansas, and that no consideration had been
given the New York Indians for the cession of the 500,000
acres of Wisconsin lands. He referred to the settlement with
the Tonawandas, and stated that he saw "no reason why the
other tribes should not receive the same relief."
While none of these documents are of great importance in
themselves, they serve to indicate very clearly that in the
mind of the Executive and departmental officers the rights of
the Indians, under the treaty of Buffalo Creek, were continuously recognized as just claims against.the Government.
We are at a loss to understand upon what theory this can
be considered an abandoned claim. If the evidence pointed
in that direction the argument would come with better grace
if the Government had not itself received the full consideration stipulated by the treaty (so far as such consideration was
a valuable one) for the Kansas lands, and bad neglected to
render any account of the same. Of course, if the legal title
passed to these Indians, something else than a failure to assert
such title is necessary to divest it. But however this may be,
the court finds (finding 17) that after the order of the Secretary of the Interior of 1S59, and before the proclamation of
the President of said lands as part of the public domain in
December, 1860, "some of the New York Indians employed
counsel to protect and prosecute their claims in the premises,
asserting, in the powers of attorney, that the United States
had seized upon the said lands contrary to the obligations of
said treaty, and would not permit the said Indians to occupy
the same or make any disposition thereof. The said Indians
have since asserted their said claims." How long, or how frequently, or in what manner the Indians continued to assert
their claims, does not appear; but it seems that on June 21,
1884, their claims, together with the vouchers, papers, proofs
and documhents appertaining thereto, were referred to the

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of Claims for an investigation and finding of facts. To
create an abandonment there must not only be an omission
to prosecute, but an intent to forego, of which there is no evidence in this case. Indeed, it is not altogether clear that the
Government did not waive this point in the act of 1893, conferring jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims to enter judgment, when it declared that the statute of limitations should
not be pleaded as a bar to recovery.
The appropriation of these lands by the Government is
probably explicable by the fact that an enormous emigration
to Kansas was at that time in progress for the avowed purpose of preventing the establishment of slavery in the Territory ; that the pressure of population for land was very great;
that the Territory was almost in the throes of civil war; that
the negotiation of a new treaty with nine different tribes
would be attended with considerable delay; that but few of
the Indians had actually removed and resided in Kansas, and
that the Secretary of the Interior assumed, what undoubtedly
the facts had some tendency to show, that the grant had
lapsed by the failure of the Indians to emigrate, and therefore
considered himself fully justified in- taking possession of the
lands, and settling with the Indians in a future treaty. The
claim of the Tonawandas was actually settled. Congress, in
the act of 1861 admitting Kansas, provided for the subsequent
extinguishment of Indian titles; but a great civil war then
intervened, and for several years absorbed the attention of
Congress, and the matter does not seem to have been resuscitated until after the lapse of about twenty years, when Congiess referred the case to the Court of Claims, with an express
waiver of the statute of limitations. We do not perceive in
all this an intention on the part of the Indians to abandon
their claims, or any indication on the part of Congress that it
considered it abandoned.
6. But little need be said considering the cash payments to
be made under the ninth, twelfth, thirteenth and fourteenth
articles of this treaty. Most, if not all, of these payments
were to be made upon the actual removal of these Indians
to the West, and as this contingency never happened, the

OCTOBER TER,

1897.

Syllabus.

amounts never became due, The same ruling applies to the
appropriation of $400,000 in the fifteenth article, which was
made to aid in removing the Indians to their new homes, supporting them the first year after their removal, and for other
incidental purposes contingent upon their removal.
Tliejudgment of the Court of Claims is therefore reversed,
and the case remanded with instructions to enter a new
judgment for the net amount actuolly received by the
Governmentfor the Kansas lands, without interest, less the
amount qf lands upon the basis of which settlement was
made with the Tonawandas, and other just deductions,
and for such other proceedings as may be necessary, and.
in conformity with this opinion.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE
BREwER dissented.

LEYSON v. DAVIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 517. Submitted March 14, 198.-Decided April 11, 1598.
In a suit commenced in a court of the State of Montana by the administrator of the donor of national bank stock, no written assignment having
been made, against the donee to compel the delivery of the certificates
to the plaintiff, and against the bank to require it to make a transfer of
the stock to the plaintiff, the donee set up that the gift was voluntarily
made to him by his father in his lifetime, causa mortis, and on trial it was
decided that he was the owner of such stockand of the certificates, and
was entitled to have new certificates therefor issued to him by the bank;
and a decree having been entered accordingly, it was sustained by the
Supreme Court of the State upon appeal. Held, that these matters
raised no Federal question; that no title, right, privilege or immunity
was specially set up or clhimed by the administrator under a law of the
United States, and denied by the highest tribunal of the States; and that
the controversy was merely as to which of the claimants had the superior equity to those shares of stock, and the national banking act was
only collaterally involved.

