OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

The exemption of the company from requirements inconsistent with its charter could not operate to relieve it from submitting itself to such police regulations as the city might
lawfully impose. And until it had complied, or offered to
comply, with regulations to which it was bound to conform,
it was not in a position to assert that its charter rights were
invaded because of other regulations, which, though applicable
to other companies, it contended would be invalid if applied

to it.
TheSupreme Court of Missouri did not feel called on to
define in'advance what might, or might not, be lawful requirements; and there is certainly nothing in this record compelling us to"do so.
Ib,must be remembered that the case does not come before
us from the Circuit Court. This is a writ of error to revise
the judgment of the highest tribunal of a State, and this we
cannot do unless Federal questions have been erroneously
disposed of.
Judgment
affirmed.

BARROW STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. KANE.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 3&3. Argued October 22, 1897. -Decided

Aprl 11, 1898.

The Circuit Court of the United States, held within one State, has jurisdiction of an action brought, by a citizen and resident of another State,
against a foreign corporation doing business in the first State Ihrough
its regularly appointed agents. upon whom the summons is there served,
for a cause of action arising in a foreign country; although the statutes
of the State confer no authority upon any court to issue process against
a foreign corporation, at the suit of a person not residing withini the
State, and for a cause of action not arising therein.

THIs was an action brought November 1, 1894, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of

New York, by Michael Kane against the Barrow Steamship
Company (Limited).

BARROW STEAM-SHIP CO.MPANY v. KANE.

101

Statement of the Case.

The complaint alleged that the plaintiff was a citizen of
New Jersey, and resided at Newark in that State; and that
"the defendant is a corporation organized and incorporated
under the laws of the Kingdom of Great Britain, and is the
owner of a certain steamship known as the IDevoihia, and is
and was at the time hereinafter mentioned a common carrier
of passengers, and engaged in the business of tr3nsportation
of freight and passengers upon said steamship IDevonia and
other steamers, among other places, from Londonderry, Ireland, to the city of New York, and has offices and property
in the said city of New York, and its general agents therein,
managing the affairs of the said company within said city,
and is a resident and inhabitant of the city of New York and
the Southern District of New York, within" the meaning of
the statute in such case made and provided;" that "the said
defendant operates its business, or part thereof, in and under
the name and as part of the Anchor Line, and its said business
is in whole or in part done under that name, and its steamers,
including the said Devonia, belong to what is known as the
Anchor Line steamships; that the general managers of said
business in the city of New York are the firm of Henderson
Brothers, who are the general agents of said defendant, and
the officers of said defendant company and said agents are at
No. 7 Bowling Green and pier 54 North River in said city;
that on or about September 13, 1893, the plaintiff purchased
and paid for a ticket as a passenger for transportation by
defendant from Londonderry, in Ireland, Kingdom of Great
Britain, to the city of New York, on the steamship Devonia,
belonging to said defendant; and the said defendant received
the said plaintiff as a passenger, and undertook and promised
to transport the said plaintiff from said Londonderry to New
York with due care, and to do all those things necessary and
required for the safe transportation of the said plaintiff to and
from said points; and it became and was its duty and it
became bound to protect and save harmless the said plaintiff
from any injury or harm from its agents or servants employed
in its business;" and that "for the purpose of transporting
passengers over part of the voyage, viz., from Londonderry to

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

the steamship Devonia, lying in the harbor, the said defendant used a certain tender; that said plaintiff, being a passenger
on said tender, in pursuance of the obligation and promise
aforesaid, the same being part of the transportation to New
York, was violently, on or about September 14, 1893, assaulted
and maltreated, without just cause or excuse and wrongfully
and unlawfully, by servants or agents of said defendant on
said tender," as particularly stated in the complaint; and
thereby suffered damages to the extent of $20,000.
To this complaint the defendant filed the following appearance and'demurrer: "The defendant above named, appearing
specially by Henry T. Wing and Harrington Putnam as its
attorneys; specially, only for the purposes hereof, as stated in
its special appearance noted herein, demurs to the complaint
herein, for the special purpose, and no other, until the questions herein raised have been decided, of objecting to the
jurisdiction of this court, demurring and excepting to the
complaint, because it appears upon the face thereof that
the court has not jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, nor of the subject-matter of the action, for the reason that
neither the defendant nor the plaintiff is an inhabitant or
resident of the Southern District of New York, and the
action therefore cannot be maintained therein, and that the
defendant is a foreign corporation, and the cause of action
did not arise within the State of New York. Wherefore defendant prays judgment whether this court has jurisdiction,
and asks that the complaint be dismissed, with costs; but
should the court overrule this demurrer and exception, the
defendant, then asks time and leave to answer to the merits,
though excepting to the action of the court in overruling said
demurrer."
The court overruled the demurrer, with liberty to answer
the complaint. The defendant thereupon answered, and the
case went to trial.
When the plaintiff's counsel had opened the case to the
jury, the defendant's counsel moved to dismiss the suit, upon
the ground "that it appeared upon the face of the complaint
that the court had not jurisdiction thereof; that it had na

BARROW STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. KANE.

103

Statement of the Case.
jurisdiction of the person of the defendant; and that it had
no jurisdiction of the subject-matter of the action;" and presented as grounds of the motion the same reasons that bad
The court
been urged at the hearing on the demurrer.
denied the motion, and the defendant, duly excepted to the
denial.
I At the close of the testimony, the defendant again moved
the court to dismiss the proceedings on the ground of want of
jurisdiction, both of the subject-matter and of the person of
the defendant. The motion was denied and an exception
reserved.
The trial resulted in a verdict for the plaintiff for $7500,
upon which judgment was rendered.
The defendant took the case by writ of error to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which requested the instruction of this
court upon a question of law; and embodied in its certificate
the provisions of the New York Code of Civil Procedure
which are copied in the margin,' the foregoing pleadings and
proceedings in the case, and this statement of facts:
1 SFC. 432. (Amended 1877, c. 416.) How personal service of summons
made upon a foreign corporation. Personal service of a summons upon a
defendant, being a foreign corporation, must be made by delivering a copy
thereof, within the State, .as follows:
1. To the president, treasuter or secretary; or, if the corporation lacks
either of those officers, to the officer performing corresponding functions,
under another name.
2. To a person designated for the purpose by a writing, under the seal
of the corporation, and the signature of its president, vice president, or
other acting head, accompanied with the written consent of the person
in the office of the secretary of state. The designadesignated, and filed
tion must specify a place, within the State, as the office or residence of the
person designated; and, if it is within a city, the street, and the street number, if any, or other suitable designation of the particular locality. It
remains in force, until the filing in the same office of a written revocation
thereof, or of the consent executed in like manner; but the person designated may, from time to time, change the place specified as his office or
residence, to some, other place within the State, by a writing, executed by
him, 4nd filed in like manner. The secretary of state may require the
execution of any instrument, specified in this section, to be authenticated
as he deems proper, and he may refuse to file it without such an authentication. An exemplified copy of a designation so filed, accompanied with a

.104:

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

"The cause of action is for damages alleged to have been
sustained in consequence.of an assault upon the plaintiff, a
passenger by the defendant's steamship, while the plaintiff
was in transit under a contract of transportation, by a person
for whose acts it is alleged the defendant was responsible.
The alleged assault took place in the port of Londonderry,
Ireland. The plaintiff is a citizen and resident of the State
of New Jersey. The defendant is a corporation organized and
incorporated under the-laws of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Ireland. It is a common carrier operating a
line of steamships from ports in that kingdom to the port
of New York. It does business in the State of New York
through the firm'of Henderson Brothers, its regularly appointed agents, and has property therein. There is no proof
of any written designation by the defendant of any one
within the State of New York upon ,whom service of process may be made. Service of the summons was made on a
member of the firm of Henderson Brothers as agents for the
defendant."
The question of law certified was: "Had the Circuit Court
certificate that It has not been revoked, is presumptive evidence of the
execution thereof, and conclusive evidence of the authority of the offier
executing it.
3. If such a designation is not in force, or if neither the person designated, nor an officer specified in subdivision first of this section, can bu
found with due diligence, and the corporation has property witlin the
State, or the cause of action arose therein; to the cashier, a director, or
a managing agent of the corporation, within the State.
SEC. 1780. When.foreign cor:porations may be sued. An action against a
foreign corporation may be maintained by a resident of the State, or by a
domestic corporation, for any cause of action. An action against a foreign
corporation may be maintained by another foreign corporation, or by a nonresident, in one of the following cases only:
1. Where the action is brought to recover damages for the breach of a
contract made within the State, or relating to property situated within the
State at the time of the making thereof.
2. Where it is brought to recover real property situated within the State,
or a chattel, which is replevied within the State.
3. Where the cause of action arose within the State, except where the
object of the action is to affect the title to real property situated without
the State.

BARROW STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. KANE.

105

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction to try the action and render judgment therein
against the defendant?"
Mr. Esek Cowen for plaintiff in error.

.Mr. F. E. Pendleton for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTIc GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York against the
Barrow Steamship Company, by a passenger on one of its
steamships on a voyage from Londonderry in Ireland to the
city of New York, for an assault upon him by its agents in
the port of Londonderry. The certificate of the Circuit Court
of Appeals shows that the plaintiff is a citizen and resident of
the State of New Jersey; that the defendant is a corporation,
organized and incorporated under the laws of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and a common carrier running a line of steamships from ports in that kingdom
to the port of New York, and does business in the State of
New York, through a mercantile firm, its regularly appointed
agents, and upon whom the summons in this action was
served.
It was contended, in behalf of the steamship company,
that, being a foreign corporation, no suit could be maintained
against it in yersonan in this country without its consent, express or implied; that by doing business in the State of New
York it consented to be sued only as authorized by the statutes
of the State; that the jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States held within the State depended on the authority given
by those statutes; that the statutes of New York conferred
no authority upon any court to issue process against a foreign
corporation in an action by a non-resident, and for a cause not
arising within the State; and therefore that the Circuit' Court
acquired no jurisdiction of this action brought against a British
corporation by a citizen and resident of New Jersey.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The constant tendency of judicial decisions in modern times
has been in the direction of putting corporations upon the
same rooting as natural persons in regard to the jurisdiction of
suits by or against them.
By the Constitution of the United States, the judicial power,
so far as depending upon citizenship of parties, was declared
to extend to controversies "between citizens of different
States," and to those between "citizens" of a State and foreign "citizens' or subjects." And Congress, by the Judiciary
Act of 1789, in defining the original jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United. States, described each party to such
a controversy, either as "a citizen" of a State, or as "an
alien." Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 11 ; 1 Stat. 78 ;
Rev. Stat. § 629. Yet the words "citizens" and "aliens," in
these provisions of the Constitution and of the Judiciary Act,
have always been held by this court to include corporations.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts over suits between a
citizen of one State and a corporation of another State was at
first maintained upon the theory that the persons composing
the corporation were suing or being sued in its name, and
upon the presumption of fact that all those persons were citizens of the State by which the corporation had been created
but that this presumption might be rebutted, by plea and
proof, and the jurisdiction thereby defeated. Bank of United
States v. .Deveau, 5 Cranch, 61, 87, 88; Ilope Ins. Co. v.
Boardman, 5 Cranch, 57; Commercial Bank v. Slocomb, 14
Pet. 60.
But the earlier cases were afterwards overruled; and it has
become the settled law of this court that, for the purposes of
suing and being sued in the courts of the United States, a corporation created by and doing business ina State is, although
an artificial person, to be considered as a citizen of the State,
as much as a natural person; and there is a conclusive presumption of law that -the persons composing the corporation
are citizens of the same State with the corporation. Louisville &c. Railroad-v. Letson, 2 How. 497, '558; .Marshall v.
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 16 How. 314, 329; Muller v.
.Dows, 94 U. S.444; Steamsi Co. v. fliugman, 106 U. S. 18 ;

BARROW STEAMSHIP COIPANY v. KANE.

107

Opinion of the Court.

St. Louis & San Francisco Railway v. James, 161 U. S. 545,
555-559.
In Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, decided before
the case of United States v. Deveaux, above cited, had been
overruled, and while that case was still recognized as authority for the principle that in a question of jurisdiction the court
might look to the character of the persons composing a corporation, Chief Justice Taney, in delivering judgment, said
that the principle had "never been supposed to extend to contracts made by a corporation, especially in another sovereignty;" but that" whenever a corporation makes a contract,
it is the contract of the legal entity; -of the artificial being
created by the charter; and not the contract of the individual
members." 13 Pet. 586, 587.
in Bank of Augusta v. Earle, it was adjudged that a corporation created by one State, and acting within the scope of
its charter, might do business and make contracts in another
State when permitted to do so by the laws thereof, and might
sue upon such contracts in the courts of that State. As was
said in the opinion: "It is sufficient that its existence as an
artificial person, in the State of its creation, is acknowledged
and recognized by the law of the nation where the dealing
takes place; and that it is permitted by the laws of that
place to exercise there the powers with which it is endowed."
13 Pet. 589. And it was declared to be well settled that by
the law of comity among nations, prevailing among the several States of the Union, "a corporation created by one sovereignty is permitted to make contracts in another, and to sue
in its courts," except as to contracts repugnant to its own
policy. 13 Pet. 592.
The manifest injustice which would ensue, if a foreign corporation, permitted by, a State to do business therein, and to
bring suits in its courts, could not be sued in those courts, and
thus, while allowed the benefits, be exempt from the burdens,
of the laws of the State, has induced many States to provide
by statute that a foreign corporation making contracts Within
the State shall appoint an agent residing therein, upon whom
process may be served in actions upon such contracts. This

OCTOBER TERII,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

court has often held that wherever such a statute exists service upon an agent so appointed is sufficient to support jurisdiction of an action against the foreign corporation, either in
the courts of the State, or, when consistent with the acts of
Congress, in the courts of the United States held within the
State; but it his never held the existence of such a statute to
be essential to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the
United States. Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How. 404;
E parte Sc]dollenberger, 96 U. S. 369 ; 7ew .England Ins. Co.
v. lMoodworth, 111 U. S. 138, 146; SLaw v. Qubwy Mining
Co., 145 U. S. 4.44, 452.
In Lafayette is. Co. v. French, the court said: "We limit
our decision to the case of a corporation acting in a State foreign to its creation, under a law of that State which recognized
its existence, for the purposes of making contracts there and
being sued on them, through notice to its contracting agents."
But it was cautiously added: "The case of natural persons, or
of other foreign corporations, is attended with other considerations, which might or might not distinguish it; upon this we
give no opinion." 18 How. 408, 409.
The liability of a foreign corporation to be sued in a particular jurisdiction need not be distinctly expressed in the
statutes of that jurisdiction, but may be implied from a grant
of authority in those statutes to carry on its business there.
Accordingly, in Piaikroad Co. v. Harris, 12 Wall. 65, the
Baltimore and. Ohio Railroad Company, a corporation chartered by the State of Maryland, and authorized by the statutes of the State of Virginia to extend its railroad into that
State, and also by the act of Congress of March 2, 1831, c. 85,
4 Stat. 476, to exteAd, constru~t and use a lateral branch of
its railroad into and within the District of Columbia, and to
exercise the same powers, rights and privileges, and be subject to the same restrictions in regard thereto, as provided in
its charter, was held, by reason of the act of Congress, and of
service upon its president in the District of Columbia, to be
liable to an action .in the District by a passenger for an injury
happening in 'the State of Virginia; although the railroad
company was a corporation of the State of Maryland only,

BARROW STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. KANE.

109

Opinion of the Court.

and neither the act of Congress authorizing it to construct
and use a branch railroad in the District of Columbia, nor any
other act of Congress, had made any provision for bringing
suits against foreign corporations, the action having been
brought before the passage of the act of February 22, 1867,
c. 64, § 11 ; 14 Stat. 404 ; Rev. Stat. D. C. § 790. Mir. Ju'stice
Swayne, in delivering judgment, said: "If the theory maintained by the counsel for the plaintiff in error be correct,
however large or small the cause of action, and whether it
were a proper one for legal or equitable cognizance, there
could be no legal redress short of the seat of the company
in another State. In many instances the cost of the remedy
would have largely exceeded the value of its fruits. In suits
local in their character, both at law and in equity, there could
be no relief. The result would be, to a large extent, immunity
from all legal responsibility. It is not to be supposed that
Congress intended that the important powers and privileges
granted should be followed by such results. But turning our
attention from this view of the subject, and looking at the
statute alone, and reading it by its own light, we entertain no
doubt that it made the company liable t6 suit, where this suit
was brought, in all respects as if it had been an independent
corporation of the same locality." 12 Wall. 83, 84.
In that case, it is to be observed, the cause of action arose,
neither in the State of Maryland, where the defendant was
incorporated, nor in the District of Columbia, where the action
was brought, but in the State of Virginia. The decision, in
principle and in effect, recognizes that a corporation of one
State, lawfully doing business in another State, and summoned
in an action in the latter State by service upon its principal
officer therein, is subject to the jurisdiction of the court in
which the action is brought.
In England, the right of a foreign corporation doing business in England to sue in the English courts was long ago
recognized; and its liability to be subjected to suit in those
courts, by service made upon one of its .principal officers residing and representing it within the realm, has been fully
established by recent decisions. Newby v. Yon Oppen, L. R.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

7 Q. B. 293; Haggin. v. Comtoir d'Escompte de Paris, 23
Q. B. D. 519.
In the courts of several States of the Union, the like view
has prevailed. Libbey v. Rlodgdon, 9 N. I1. 394; 1farch v.
Eastern. Railroad Co., 40 N. It. 548, 579; Day v. EssexCounty Bank, 13 Vermont, 97; Moulin v. Trenton Ins. Co.,
1 Dutcher (26 N. J. Law'), 57; Bushel v. Commonwealth Ins.
Co., 15 S. & R. 173; North .Missouri Railroad v. Akers,
Kansas, 453, 469; Council Blus Co. v. Omaha Co., 494
Nebraska, 537. The courts of New York and Massachusetts,
indeed, have declined to take jurisdiction of suits against
foreign corporations, except so far as it has been expressly
conferred by statutes of the State. -McQueen v. MiddletownManu.uf. Co., 16 Johns. -5; Robinson v. Oceanic Steam N2avigation Co., 112 N. Y. 315; Desper v. Continental Water .Meter
Co., 137 Mass. 252. But the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts
of the United States is not created by, and does not depend
upon, the statutes of the several States.
In the Circuit Courts of the United States, there have been
conflicting opinions, but the most satisfactory ones are those
of Judge Drummond and Judge Lowell in favor of 'the liability of foreign corporations to be sued. Wilson Packing
Co. v. Hunter, 8 Bissell, .429; -Haydenv. Androscoggin M3ills,
1 Fed. Rep. 93.
In Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, above cited, this court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Curtis, after saying that a corporation created by one State could transact business in another
State, only with the consent, express or implied, of the latter
State, and that this consent might be accompanied by such
conditions as the latter State might think fit to impose, defined the limits of its power in this respect by adding, "and
these conditions must be deemed valid and effectual by other
States, and by this court, provided they are not repugnant to
the Constitution or laws of the United States, or inconsistent
with those rules of public law which secure the jurisdiction
and authority of each State from encroachment by all others,
or that principle of natural justice which forbids condemnation without opportunity for defence." 18 How. 407.

BARROW STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. KANE.

111

Opinion of the Court.

The object of the provisions of the Constitution and statutes
of
of the United States, in conferring upon the Circuit Courts
citizens
between
the United States jurisdiction of controversies
of
of different States of the Union, or between citizens of one
be
to
presumed
the States and aliens, was to secure a tribunal
the
more impartial than a court of the State in which one of
litigants resides.
The jurisdiction so conferred upon the national courts cannot be abridged or impaired by any statute of a State. Hyde
v. Stone, 20 How. 170, 175; $mryth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466,
516. It has therefore been decided that a statute, which requires all actions against a county to be brought in the county
States
court, does not prevent the Circuit Court of the United
from taking jurisdiction of such an action; Chief Justice Chase
a
saying that "no statute limitation of suability can defeat
Cowles v. Jercer
jurisdiction given by the Constitution."
v. Luning, 133
County
Lincoln
122;
118,
County, 7 Wall.
S. 529. So statU.
148
Sherwood,
v.
U. S. 529 ; Chicot County
of being
condition
a
as
corporations,
utes requiring foreign
not to
stipulate
to
State,
the
within
permitted to do btsiness
brought
suits
States
United
the
remove into the courts of
against them in the courts of the State, have been adjudged
to be unconstitutional and void. Rome Ins. Co. v. Morse, 20
Wall. 445; Barron v. Burnside, 121 U. S. 186; Southern
Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202.
On the other band, upon the fundamental principle that no
one shall be condemned unheard, it is well settled that in a
suit against a corporation of one State, brought in a court of
the United States held within another State, in which the
corporation neither does business, nor has authorized any
person to represent it, service upon one of its officers or
employ~s found within the State will not support the jurisdiction, notwithstanding that such service is recognized as
sufficient by the statutes or the judicial decisions of the State.
St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350; Fitzgerald Co. v. Fitzgerald,
137 U. S. 98, 106; Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518.
See als6 iXexican Central Railway v. Pinkney, 149 U. S. 194.
3y the existing act of Congress defining the general juris-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

diction of the Circuit Courts of the United States, those courts
"shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of
the several States, of all suits of a civil nature, at common law
or in equity, when the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of
interest and costs, the sum or value of two thousand dollars,"
"in which there shall be a controversy between citizens of
different States," "or a controversy between citizens of a State
and foreign States, citizens or subjects ;" and, as has been
adjudged by this court, the subsequent provisions of the act.,
as to the district in which suits must be brought, have no
application to a suit against an a]ien or a foreign corporation;
but such a person or corporation may be sued by a citizen of
a State of the Union in any district in which valid service can
be made upon the defendant. Act of March 3, 1887, c. 373,
§ 1, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, § 1;
24: Stat. 552; 25 Stat. 434; S aw v. Quincy Mining Co., 145
U. S. 444, 453; In re flohorst, 150 U. S. 653; Galveston &c.
Railway v. Gonzales, 151 U. S. 496, 503; 19b re ifeasbey &
-Mattison Co., 160 U. S. 221, 229, 230.
The present action was brought by a citizen and resident of
the State of New Jersey, in a Circuiit Court of the United
States held within the State of New York, against a foreign
corporation doing business in the latter State. It was for a
personal tort committed abroad, such as would have been
actionable if committed in the State of New York or elsewhere in this country, and an action for which might be
maintained in any Circuit Court of the United States which
acquired jurisdiction of the defendant. Railroad Co. v.
Harris,above cited; Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 11 ;
Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657, 670, 675; Stewart v.
Baltimore d Ohio Railroad, 168 U. S. 445. The summons
was duly served upon the regularly appointed agents of the
corporation in New York. Irn re Jlohorst,above cited. The
action was within the general jurisdiction conferred by Congress upon the Circuit Courts of the United States. The fact
that the legislature of the State of New York has not seen fit
to authorize like suits to be brought in its own courts by citizens and residents of other States cannot deprive such citizens

THE JOHN G. STEVENS.
Statement of the Case.

of their right to invoke the jurisdiction of the national courts
under the Constitution and laws of the United States.
The necessary conclusion is that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to try the action and to render judgment therein
against the defendant, and that the
Question certified must be answered in the affirmative.

'THE JOHN G. STEVENS.
CERTIFICATE

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND .CIRCUIT.

No. 25. Argued January 27, 169T. -Decided

April 18, 1898.

A collision between two vessels by the fault of one of them creates a maritime lien upon her for the damages to the other,which is to be preferred,
in-admiralty, to a lien for previous supplies.
A lien upon a tug, for damages to her tow by negligent towage bringing the
tow into collision with a third vessel, is to be preferred, in admiralty
to a lien for supplies previously furnished to the tug in her home port.

a pending appeal in admiralty by Edward H. Loud and
others, owners of the schooner C. R. Flint, from a decree of
the Di~trict Court of the United States for the Eastern District of New York in favor of Frederick H. Gladwish and
others, coal merchants under the name Gladwish, Moquin &
Company, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
certified to this court a question of the priority of maritime
lines on the steamtug John G. Stevens, arising, as the certificate stated, upo, the following facts:
"The home port of the tug was New York.- Between
December .7, 1885, and M arch 7, 1886, Gladwish, M'oquin &
Company furnished coal to the tug in her home port, and filed
notices of liens therefor under the laws of the State of New
York of 1862, chapter 482, thereby creating statutory liens on
her. On March 8, 1886, the'tug John G. Stevens was employed in the port of New York to tow the schooner C. R.
IN

VOL. CLXX-8

