OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

CALDERON v. ATLAS STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 83. Argued March 8, 9, 1898.- Decided April 25, 1898.

The appellant shipped, by a vessel belonging to the appellee, goods under a
bill of lading which contained the following stipulation: " In accepting
this bill of lading, the shipper, owner and consignee of the goods and
thebolder of the bill of lading agree to be bound by all of its stipulations,
exceptions and conditions as printed on the back hereof, whether written
or printed, as fully as if they were all signed by such shipper, owner,
consignee or holder." Of these stipulations and conditions, this court
regards only the following as material: " 1. It is also mutually agreed
that the carrier shall not be liable for gold, silver, bullion, specie, documents, jewellery, pictures, embroideries, works of art, silks, furs, china,
porcelain, watches, clocks or for goods of any description which are
above the value of $100 per package, unless bills of lading are signed
therefor, with the value therein expressed, and a special agreement is
made." "9. Also, in case any part of the goods cannot be found for
delivery during the steamer's stay at the port of destination, they are to
be forwarded by first opportunity, when found, at the company's expense,
the steamer not to be held liable for any claim for Adelay or otherwise."
"14. This agreement is npade with reference to, and subject to the provisions of the U. S. carriers' act, approved February 13, 1893." The
goods were not delivered at the port to which they were consigned, and
were subsequently lost at sea on another vessel belonging to the appellee,
on which they had been placed without the appellant's knowledge. In
a suit in admiralty to recover their value, Held,
(1) That as the negligence of the company was clearly proven, there can
be no doubt of its liability under the act of February 13, 1893,
c. 105, known as the "Harter Act;"
(2) That the clause limiting the amount of the carriers' liability is to be
construed as a statement that the carrier shall not be liable to any
amount for goods exceeding $100 per package; and being so interpreted, that it is a clear attempt on the part of tilecarrier to
exonerate itself from all responsibility for goods exceeding the
value of $100 per package, and as such is not only prohiijted by
the Harter Act, but held to be invalid in a series of cases in this
court.

THis was.a suit instituted in the District Court for the
Southern District of New York, in admiralty, by the libel-

CALDERON v. ATLAS STEAMSHIP COMNPANY.

273

Statement of the Case.

lant, Calderon, who was at that time consul general for the
'United States of Colombia at New York, to recover from
the respondent, the Atlas Steamship Company, the sum of
$5413.18, the -value of a consignment of goods shipped from
New York to Savanilla by the libellant on the steamer Ailsa,
which goods the master failed to deliver at the port of destination, and thereafter brought back to New York, where they
were reshipped by the respondent on the steamer Alvo. The
goods were lost by the sinking of this ship through a peril of
the sea.
It seems the respondent owned-both the Ailsa and the Alvo,
and ran them between New York, Kingston, Savanilla, Carthagena and Port LiThon, from which last-named port they sailed
direct to New York, usually carrying a cargo of fruit. Libellant had frequently'shipped goods by this line and over the
same route, and on July 19, 1893i about two hours before the
Ailsa sailed on its regular voyage from New York, delivered
to the company on its pier, under authority of a special permit from the company, the consignment of goods in question,
which consisted of twenty-six bales and three crates of duck
government uniforms, for transportation to the port of Savanilla, and from thence to Baranquilla in the 'United States of
Colombia. The receipt given by the company to the truckman who delivered the goods stated that they had been received "at the shipper's risk from fire, and subject to the
conditions expressed in the company's form of bill of lading."
The bill of lading, subsequently obtained in lieu of the receipt, and a copy of which was sent by mail to the consignee
by the same steamer, contained on its face the provision:
"And finally, in accepting this bill of lading the shipper,
owner and consignee of the goods, and the holder of the bill
of lading, agree to be bound by all of its stipulations, exceptions and conditiois, as printed oen the back hereof, whether
written or printed, as fully as if' they were signed by such
shipper, owner, consignee or holder."
Of -the stipulations, exceptions and conditions printed on
the back, only the following are material:
"1. It is also mutually agreed that the carrier shall not be
VOL. crxx-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

liable for gold, silver, bullion, specie, documents, jewellery,
pictures, embroideries, works of art, silks, furs, china, porcelain, watches, clocks'or for goods of any description which are
above the value of $100 per package, unless bills of lading are
signed therefor, with the value therein expressed, and a special agreement is made."
"9. Also, in case any part of the goods cannot be found
for delivery during the steamer's stay at the port of destination, they are to be forwarded by the first opportunity, when
found, at the company's expense, the steamer not to be held
liable for any claim for delay or-otherwise."
"14. This agreement is made with reference to, and subject to the provisions of U. S. carriers' act, approved February
13, 1893."
It appeared from the testimony taken that these goods
were the last to be loaded, and that instead of being stowed
with other freight for Savanilla, the port of destination, they
were placed in another hold of the ship and- in the "last tier
to come out" of the Carthagena freight. It also appeared
that the consignment was not discharged at Savanilla, and
that it was not discovered to be on' board until the ship. was
well on its way to Carthagena. The ship, however, proceeded
on its voyage -without httempting to make the delivery of the
goods, and upon receiving a cargo of fruit at Port Limon
sailed for New York, where the consignment was reshipped,
'August 16, 1893, on the steamer Alvo. No notice was given
to libellant of the return of the goods or of their reshipment.
The Alvo was caught in a hurricane and lost at sea with her
entire cargo.
The District Court held that there was a "failure in the
proper delivery" of the goods at Savanilla, but that inasmuch as bills of lading were not signed specially designating
the value of each of the twenty-nine packages, as provided
by clause one on the back of the bill of lading, the liability
of the company was limited to $100 for each of the twentynine packages, or $2900 in all. Calderon v. Atlas Steamslp)
Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 874.
From this decree the libellant alone appealed, and upon the

CALDERON v. ATLAS STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

275

Opinion of the Court.

hearing the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit,
by a majority opinion, sustained the decree of the -court
below. 35 U. S. App. 587.

.Mr. J. langdon Ward for appellant.
.Mr. -EvrettP. Wheeler for.appellee.
M[R. JUSTICE BROWN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Two questions are presented by the record in this case:
First, whether the steamship company was liable at all under
its bill of lading for the non-delivery of the goods at Savanilla:
'second, whether such liability was limited to the sum of $100
for each package.
1. Both the District Court and the Court of Appeals held
the company to be liable under section 1 of the Harter Act,
of February 13, 1893, c. 105, 27 Stat. 445, which provides
" that it shall not be lawful for the manager, agent, master
or owner of any vessel transporting merchandise or property
from-or between ports of the United States and foreign ports
to insert in any bill of lading or shipping document any clause,
covenant or agreement whereby it, he or they shall be relieved
from liability for loss or damage arising from negligence, fault
or failure in proper loading, stowage, custody, care or proper
delivery of any and all lawful merchandise or property committed to its or their charge. Any and all words or clauses
of such import inserted in bills of lading or shipping receipts
shall be null and void and of no effect," and this, notwithstanding the provision in thd bill of lading that "in case any
part of the goods cannot be found for delivery during -the
steamer's stay at the port of destfnation, they are to be forwarded. by first opportunity, when'found, at the company's
expense, the steamer not to be held liable for any claim for
delay or otherwise."
As the company did not appeal from. this decree it must be
regarded asacquiescing in the justice of such decree to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

amount therein.awarded to the libellant; but as we should'
not make a further decree against the company for the
amount now claimed by the libellant in excess of $100 per
package, if we were satisfied that the company was not liable
at all, we have thought it best to consider whether the courts
below were correct in their construction of the Harter Act.
It may well be questioned whether the provision "that in
case any part of the goods cannot be f'ound for delivery during the steamer's stay at the port of destination" has any application to a cae where the goods were not placed in the
proper compartment when stowed on board the vessel, and
for which it appears no search was made upon the arrival at
Savanilla, notwithstanding the fact that a bill of lading had
been given for them and their shipment had been entered
upon the manifest or other "cargo books" of the steamer.
It appears that after leaving Savanilla the purser discovered
that these goods had not been "tallied out" on the cargo
books for that port, and he at once made search for them,
and found them stowed with the Carthagena cargo.
It was clearly the duty of the master of the vessel before
leaving Savanilla to examine the m-anifests or other memoranda of the vessel to ascertain whether the portion of the cargo
consigned to that pla6e had been delivered, and if not, to
search for the- missing 'consignment before leaving the port.
His failure to do this was obviously a breach of his general obligation to deliver his cargo to its consignee, and it is exceedingly doubtful whether, even in the absence of the Harter
Act, the provision in the bill of lading would have excused
him. But as the stipulation in the bill of iding was one which
the Harter Act prohibited, it is.only necessary to refer to this
act to hold the company chargeable with negligence. Regard
may doubtless be had to the custom of the port as to what.
shall be termed a proper delivery with respect to the time and
manner of such delivery, but a failure to deliver at all was
negligence. No such want of delivery can be excused under
the terms either of the first or second section of the Harter
Act. Not only was there negligence in failing to examine the
ship's papers to ascertain what goods were consigned to Sava-

CALDERON v. ATLAS STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

277

Opinion of the Court.

nilla, but there was also negligence in stowing such goods
under that portion of the cargo destined for Carthagena, and
thus concealing them from observation. If these goods were
the last received by the vessel before her departure from New
York, they would naturally have occupied a position which
would have called attention to-them upon arrival at the first
port of destination, but they were so concealed beneath the
goods consigned to another port that they were not discovered
until after the vessel had left Savanilla.
The words "cannot be found" would seem to apply' to a
.case where thp goods had been misplaced, and an effort had
been made to fin*d them which had proven unsuccessful, and
not to a case where no attempt whatever was made to deliver
them. But however this may be, we are clearly of opinion
that the provisions of section one of the Harter Act supersede
and override this stipulation in the bill of lading, particularly
as it is expressly provided that the agreement was "made with
reference to, and subject to the provisi6ns of the Jnited States
carriers' act, approved Febrpary 13, 1893." (Harter Act.)
The first section of theL-act is cited above, but the second section further provides " that it shall not be lawful for any vessel
transporting merchandise or property from or between ports
of the United States of America and foreign ports, her
owner, master, agent or manager, to insert in any .bill of lading or shipping document any covenant or agreement
whereby the obligations of the master, officers, agents or servants to carefully handle and stow her cargo, and to care for
and properly deliver the same, shall in anywise be lessened,
weakened or avoided."
It is to be, noticed that by the first section the carrier shall
not be "relieved from liability" for loss or damage arising
from negligence in the proper stowage or proper delivery of
the goods, while by the second section the carrier shall not insert any covenant or agreement in the bill of lading whereby
the obligations of the carrier to carefully stow and properly
deliver the cargo shall be "lessened, weakened or avoided."
These two sections, in their general purport, so far as respects
the care and delivery of the cargo, are not essentially different,

OCTOBER TERIM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

although it is possible that a somewhat ampler measure of liability was intended under the second section, which denounces
any covenant whereby the obligations of the ship to properly
deliver the cargo shall in anywise be lessened, weakened or
avoided. As the negligence of the respondent in this connection was clearly proven, there can be no doubt of its liability
under either of these sections of the Harter Act.
2. The alleged limitation of respondent's liability to the
sum of $100 per package depends upon that clause of the bill
of lading which declares "that the carrier shall not be liable
for gold, silver, bullion, specie, documents, jewellery, pictures,
embroideries, works of art, silks, furs, china, porcelain, watches,
clocks or goods of any description which are above the value
of $100 per package, unless bills of lading are signed therefor,
with the value therein expressed, and a special agreement is
made." Respondent- insists that the words of this clause,
"which are above the value of $100 per package,"
should be
read as limiting its liability to $100 per package, and should
be construed as if the words used were "beyond the sum
or value of $100 per package." The courts below agreed in
putting this interpretation upon it. " Acting upon this view,
it was held that the liability of the respondent was limited to
$100 per package, following in this particular the rulings of
this court in Railroad Company v. Firaloff, 100 U. S. 24, 27,
and Hart v. Pennsylvania Railroad,112 U. S. 331, and the
principle announced in .Magnin v. Dinsmore, 56 N. Y. 168;
S.. 62 N. Y. 35; 70 N. Y. 410; lVesteott v. Bargo, 61 N. Y.
542, and Graves v. Lake Shore
xMich., Southern Railroad,
137 .Mass. 33. In this last case the rule obtaining in this coturt
is adopted to its full extent by the Supreme Judicial Court of
.Massachusetts. In these cases it was held to be comipetent for
carriers of passengers or goods, by specific rpgulations brought
distinctly to the notice of the passenger or shipper, to agree
upon the valuation of the property carried, with a rate of
freight based on the condition that the carrier assumes liability only to the extent of the agreed valuation, even in case
of loss or damage by the negligence of the carrier, and that
such contracts will be upheld as a lawful method of securing

CALDERON v. ATLAS STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

279

Opinion of the Court.

a due proportion between the amount for which the carrier
may be responsible and the freight he receives, and of protecting himself against extravagant and fanciful valuations. See
also Ballou v. Earle, 17 R. I. 441; Richmond & Danville
Railroad v. Payne, 86 Virginia, 481; J. J. Douglas Company
v. .Minnesota TransportationCo., 62 Minnesota, 288.
We are, however, not content with the construction put
upon the contract by the courts below. Whether the limitation of liability to goods above the value of $100 per package
applies to "gold, silver, bullion, specie, documents, jewellery,
pictures, embroideries, works of art, silks, furs, china, porcelain, watches, clocks," as well as to goods of other descriptions,
may admit of some doubt, in view of the fact that by Rev.
Stat. ยง 4281 the vessel and her owners would not be liable for
such articles at all, unless specifically mentioned at a valuation
agreed upon. This stipulation in the bill of lading having
been inserted by the ship owner for its own benefit, could
scarcely have been intended to enlarge its statutory liability,
and the more reasonable interpretation Would seem to be that
the company was not intended to be held liable at all for these
articles. But whether this be so or not, the stipulation may
be read as if those words were omitted, namely, that the
carrier shall not be liable for goods of any description "which
are above the value of $100 per package." The plain and
unequivocal meaning of these words is that the carrier shall
not be liable to any amount for goods exceeding in value $100
per package. It is true that contracts for the carriage of goods
by water, as well as by land, frequently contain a provision
limiting the liability of the carrier to a certain amount, usually
$100 per package, and it was apparently in view of this custom that the courts below gave a like interpretation to the
words of this stipulation. But this certainly does violence to
its language. If it bad been intended to so limit the respondent's liability, it would have been easy to say so, and the very
fact that different language was used from that ordinarily
employed indicates a desire on the part of the carrier to limit
his liability to goods which are of less value than $100 per
package. It is possible that the draughtsman of this bill of

OCTOBER TERI, 1897.
Opiniou of the Court.

lading may have had the more common limitation in his mind,
and may have intended that the carrier should incur a liability
upon all goods to the extent of $100 per package, but he certainly was unfortunate in the language he chose for that purpose. If, as we have already intimated, the carrier intended
to exempt itself from all liability for the articles specifically
mentioned in this clause, it is scarcely to be supposed that it
intended to make itself liable to the amount of $100 for goods
of other descriptions, which were above that value per package. It was probably intended that the carrier should incur
no liability whatever for the value of the articles specifically
mentioned, as well as for all other goods exceeding the value
of $100 per package, while it remained liable to the full
amount for goods of other descriptions which were of less
value.
It is true that in cases of ambiguity in contracts, as well as
in statutes, courts will lean toward the presumed intention of
the parties or the legislature, and will so construe such con.
tract or statute as to effectuate such intention ; but where the
language is clear and explicit there is no call for construction,
and this principle does not apply. Parties are presumed to
know the force and effect of the language in which they have
chosen to embody their contracts, and to refuse to give effect
to such language might result in artfully misleading others
who had relied upon the words being used in their ordinary
sense. In construing contracts words are to receive their
plain and literal meaning, even though the intention of the
party drawing the contract may have been different from
that expressed. A party to a contract is responsible for
ambiguity in his own expressions, and has no right to induce
another to contract with him on the -supposition that his
words mean one thing while he hopes the court will adopt a
construction by which they would mean another thing more
to his advantage. Clark on Contracts, p. 593.
It was said of penal statutes by Mr. Chief Justpe Marshall
in United States v. Iiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76, 95, that " the
intention of the legislature is to be collected from the words
they employ. Where there is no ambiguity in the words,

CALDERON v. ATLAS STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

281

Opinion of the Court.

there is no room for construction. The case must be a strong
one indeed which would justify a court in departing from the
plain meaning of words, especially in a penal act, in search
of an intention which the words themselves did not suggest.
To determine that a case is within the intention of a statute,
its language must authorize us to say so."
Similar language was used by Mr. Justice Swayne in
United State&v. Hartwell,6 Wall. 385, 396: "If the language
be clear it is conclusive. There can be no construction where
there is nothing to construe. The words must not be narrowed to the exclusion of what the legislature intended to
embrace; but that intention must be gathered from the
words, and they must be such as to leave no room for a reasonable doubt upon the subject. It must not be defeated by
a forced and overstrict construction. The rule does not-exelude the application of common sense to the terms made use
of in the act in order to avoid an absurdity, which the legislature ought not to be presumed to have intended. When
the words are general and include various classes of persons,
there is no authority which would justify a court in restricting
them to one class and excluding others, where the purpose of
the statute is alike applicable to all." See also Endlich on
the Interpretation of Statutes, ยง 4.
In this case the contract is one prepared by the respondent
itself for the general purposes of its business. With every
opportunity for a choice of language, it useda form of expression which clearly indicated a desire to exempt itself altogether from liability for goods exceeding $100 in value per
package, and it has no right to complain if the courts hold it
to have intended what it so plainly expressed. If the .language had been ambiguous we might have given it the construction contended for, which probably conforms more nearly
to the clause ordinarily inserted in such cases, but such language is too clear to admit of a doubt of the real meaning.
The clause in question seems to have been taken from the
English carriers' act, 11 Geo. IV,and 1 Wm.IV, c. 68, which
received a construction similar to that we-have given to it in
-Morrittv. Northeastern,Railway -Co., 1 Q. B. D. 302.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Under this interpretation there is a clear attempt on the
part of the carrier to exonerate itself from all responsibility
for goods exceeding the value of $100 per package. Such exemption is not only prohibited by the Harter Act, but is held
to be invalid in a series of cases in this court, culminating
in Uhicago, Milwaukee &c.Railway v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133,
135, wherein-it was said that "any contract by which a common carrier of goods or passengers undertakes to exempt
himself from all responsibility for loss or damage arising from
the negligence of himself or servants, is void as against public
policy, as attempting to put off the essential duties resting
upon every public carrier by virtue of his employment, and as
tending to defeat the fundamental principle upon which the
law of common carriers was established." The difficulty is
not removed by the fact that the carrier may render itself
liable for these goods, if "bills of lading are signed therefor,
with the value therein expressed and a special agreement is
made." This would enable the carrier to do, as was done in
this case -give a bill of lading in which no value was expressed, under which it would not be liable at all for the safe
transportation and proper delivery of the property. This
would be in direct contravention of the Harter Act. Indeed,
we understand it to be practically conceded that under the
construction we have given to this clause of the contract the
exemption would be unreasonable and invalid,
The decree of the -District Court is'therefore reversed, and
the case remanded to that court with directions to assess
the vabue of the libellant's goods, and to enter a decree in,
conformity with the ,-pinion of this court.
MnR.

JIXSTIOE WRITE

concurred in the result.

MR. JusTIcE BREWER dissented.

