OCTOBER TERTM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

SELVESTER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

ThE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 397. Argued March 14, 1698. -Decided

April 25, 1598.

Plaintiff in error was indicted for alleged violations of Rev. Stat. ยง 5457
The indictment contained four counts. The first charged the unlawful
possession of two counterfeit half dollars; the second, an illegal passing and uttering of two such pieces; the third, an unlawffl passing and
uttering of three pieces of like nature; and the fourth the counterfeiting of five like coins. After the jury had retired, they returned into
court -and stated, that, whilst they were agreed as to the first three
counts, they could not do so as to the fourth, and tlhe court was asked if
a verdict to that effect could be lawfully rendered. They were instructed
that it could be, whereupon they rendered a verdict that they found the
prisoner guilty on the first, second and third counts of the indictment,
and that they disagreed on the fourth count, which verdict was received,
and the jury discharged. -Held, that there was no error in this.
Lathan v. The Queen, 8 B. & S. 635, cited, quoted from, and approved as
to the point that, "in a criminal case, where each count is, as it were, a
separate indictment, one count not having been disposed of no more
affects the proceedings with error than if there were two indictments."

THE plaintiff in error was indicted for alleged violations of

section 5457 of the Revised Statutes. The indictment contained four counts. The first charged the unlawful possession
of two counterfeit half dollars; the second, an illegal passing
and uttering of two such pieces; the third, an unlawful passing and uttering of three pieces of like nature, and the fourth,
the counterfeiting of five like coins. The case came on for
trial, and, after the jury had retired, they returned into court
and stated that, whil3t they were agreed as to the first three
counts, they could not do so as to the fourth, and the court
was asked if a verdict to that effect could be lawfully rendered. They were instructed that it could be. The District
Attorney thereupon asked leave to enter a nolleprosequi as to
the fourth count, but, upon objection by the accused, the
motion was withdrawn, and the jury rendered the following
verdict:

SELVESTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

"We, the jury, find James Selvester, the prisoner at the
bar, guilty on the first, second and third counts of the indictment, and disagree on the fourth count of the indictment."
Despite objection and exception by the accused, the court
received this verdict and discharged the jury.
By motions in arrest of judgment, to set aside the verdict,
and for a new trial, the defendant asserted that the verdict
was a nullity, because "insufficient, incomplete and uncertain."
Exceptions were duly noted to the overruling of these several
motions, and the court having imposed sentence a writ of
error was allowed.
Mr.Arthur English for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Boyd for defendants in
error.
MR.JusTicE WHrrE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The assignments of error challenge the sufficiency of the
verdict to support the judgment which was entered thereon.
The claim is that as the verdict expressed the agreement of
the jury as to the guilt of the accused as to the distinct crimes
charged in three of the counts, and stated a disagreement as
to the distinct crime covered by the fourth count, the verdict
was not responsive to the whole indictment, and was void.
That is to say, the proposition is that the verdict of guilty as
to the separate offences covered by the three first counts was
in legal intendment no verdict at all, because the jury stated
their inability to agree as to the fourth count, covering a different offence from those embraced in the other counts.
Reduced to its ultimate analysis, the claim amounts to this:
That an indictment,. although consisting of several counts,
each for a distinct offence, is in law an indivisible unit, must
be treated as an entirety by the jury in making up their verdiet, and such verdict in order to be valid must finally pass
upon and dispose of all the accusations contained in the in-

OCTOBER TERVT, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

dictment. In effect it is claimed that where an indictment
consists .of several counts, repeated' trials must be had until
there is an agreement either for acquittal or conviction as to
each and every count contained in the indictment. It needs
but a mere statement of the proposition to deffnonstrate that
it in reason rests necessarily on the premise just stated. That
this is its essential postulate is conclusively shown by the authorities which are cited to sustain it. They are: Burley v.
State, 6 Ohio, 399 ; Wilson v. State, 20 Ohio, 26, 31; Williams
v. State, 6 Nebraska, 334; Casey v. State, 20 Nebraska, 138,
and Muller v. f"ewell, 66 California, 216.
In the ZBurley case, upon the assumption that the same rules,
as respects the sufficiency of verdicts, governed in criminal as
in civil cases, the Supreme Court of Ohio held that a trial court
acted properly in refusing to enter a verdict which found the
defendant not guilty on one count of an indictment, and stated
their inability to agree as to other counts; and further held
that no error was committed in discharging the jury and again
putting the accused upon trial.
In the- Wilson case, the opinion in the Burley case was criticised, but it wds held to be "prudent," where in one indictment
distinct offences were charged in separate counts, especially
when these offences might subject the accused to different
degrees of punishment, to require the jury in their finding,
in the absence of a general verdict, to affirm or negative each
charge. In consequence of this view the court reversed, because the verdict had found the defendant guilty as charged
in one series of counts in the indictment, but had omitted any
reference whatever to his guilt or innocence as to certain other
offences charged in another series of counts. The rule thus
applied was declared to be necessary because of a possible
doubt as to whether a defendant mighi not be subject to
further prosecution for an offence not passed upon by a jury
in a verdict under an indictment consisting of several counts.
The Nebraska cases followed the ruling in the Wilson case,
mainly, however, because the Ohio decision was regarded as
a construction of a statute, existing in Ohio, and which had
been adopted into the Nebraska Code.

SELVESTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The California case' relied upon may be dismissed from
view, as it related to a verdict in a civil cause.
In passing, we note that the doctrine that a verdict in a
.criminal case must respond to, every count in an indictment
.in order to warrant a judgment thereon, as stated in the Ohio
-ases just referred to, seems to be no longer maintained in
that State. Jackson v. StaM, 39 Ohio St. 37. In the Jackson
-ease the issues presented were.as follows: The trial court had
refused to receive a verdict on an indictment containing several counts for distinct offences, which found the defendant
"guilty as charged in -the. first count of the indictment."
'The jury thereupon after further deliberation returned a gen-eral 'verdict of guilty. The Supreme Court of the State of
Ohio, in considering an exception taken to the entry of the
general verdict, said: "The objection is. untenable. The
prisoner might have been sentenced under the first verdict,
for the count on which it was based was sufficient. (Whar.
Orim. Pl. and Pr. sec. 74P.) But the proper' course was to
endeavor to obtain a verdict responding to both counts, and
that course was pursued."
Whatever may be the present rule in Ohio, it is manifest
from the foregoing brief analysis of the cases cited by the
plaintiff in error to sustain the contentions upon which reliance is placed, that they rest upon the theory that, even
although the offences charged in the several counts of an
indictment be distinct and separate crimes, such a solidarity
is created between them by charging them in several counts
of one indictment as to render void any. verdict which does
-not specifically and affirmatively respond to each and every
count. But this proposition, whatever may be the support
found for it in early cases, is not sound in reason, and is
negatived by the decisions of this court and the opinion of
text writers, that is to say, it is refuted by the conclusive
weight of authority.
The erroneous theory as to the indivisible union presumed
to arise from charging distinct offences in separate cotint* of
one indictment, applied in the cases referred to and in some
other early American cases, took its origin from the case of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Rex v. Hayes, (1727) 2 Ld. Raym. 1518. (See observations in
the opinion in State v. Hill, 30 Wisconsin, 421.) But it has
been held in England that that case did not justify the view
which had been sometimes taken of it, Latham v. Te Queen,
5 B. & S. 635, and that it was a mistake to apply to the
several counts of distinct offences in one indictment the rule
which obtains as to verdicts in civil cases. In the course of
his opinion, in the case just cited, Mr. Justice Blackburn said
(p. 64:2):
"Then it is said we are concluded by authority. There is
only one case which has the least bearing on the question,
namely, Rex v. Hayes, 2 Ld. IRaym. 1518. In that case the
indictment contained three counts, and a special verdict was
returned, finding the prisoners guilty on two of them, but
said nothing on the third, and the question was whether judg.ment could be given against them as guilty on the whole.
The court held, that as the jury had virtually found, and the
facts showed, the prisoners not guilty on the third. count, the
record established that they were guilty on two counts, and
not on the third. The counsel who argued that case for the
defendants referred to authorities to show that where a verdict finds but a portion of an issue, or only one of several
issues, it is bad and ground for a venire de novo; but the
court did not determine that point at all---there was no
occasion to decide that no verdict being given on one count
-itiates a verdict on another count which is good. In civil
cases thee is only one process against the defendant, and
therefore if a new trial is granted on one part of the case it is
granted on the whole. But in a criminal case, where each
count is as it were a separate indictment, one count not having been disposed of no more affects the proceedings with
error than if there were two indictmenfs. In O'Connell v.
The Queen, 11 01. & F. 155, which has been referred to,
Parke, B., says pp. 296-7: 'So in respect of those counts on
which the jury have acted incorrectly, by finding persons
guilty of two offencesi (on a count charging only one,) if the
Crown did not obviate the objection, by entering a nolle
prosequi as to one of the offences, Rex v. Hlempstead, R. & R.

SELVESTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

C. 0. 341,' and so in effect removing that from the indictment,
the court ought to have granted a venire de novo on those
counts, in order to have a proper finding; and then upon the
good .counts it should have proceeded to pronounce the
proper judgment. In short, I should have said that the defendants should on the face of the record be put precisely in
the same condition as if the several counts had formed the
subject of several indictments.' That is exactly what- I say
here. Each count is in fact and theory a separate indictment,
and no aothority has been produced to show that we ought to
defeat the ends of justice by such a technical error as this."
And the rule in England thus clearly announced is generally applied in the American cases. Whar. Crim. P1. and Pr.
ยง 740; 1 Bishop New Crim. Proc. ยง 1011. Indeed, the doctrine,
as settled by repeated adjudications of this court, is in entire
harmony with the English rule as announced in the Latham
case. In Claassen'scase, 142 U. S. 140, it was held that where
a jury found an accused guilty on some counts of an indictment, and the trial judge imposed a general sentence, which
did not exceed the punishment authorized by law to be inflicted for a single offence, it was immaterial whether some
of the counts upon which conviction was had were bad, as the
judgment was valid if only one of the counts was legally
sufficient. In _Dealy v. United States, 152 U. S. 539, it was
held that the reception of a verdict on an indictment containing numerous counts was valid, although the verdict which set
out an affirmative finding as to all but one count was silent as
to that count. The discharge of the jury under such circumstances was conceded to have been proper, and it was observed (p. 54 ) as to the count upon which the verdict was
silent, that such silence " was -doubtless equivalent to a verdict of not guilty as to that count." In Ballew v. United
States, 160 U. S. 187, it was found that a judgment entered
upon a general verdict of guilty on an indictment consisting
of several counts was erroneous as respects one of the counts
alone, and for this cause the judgment was not reverged in
toto, but was only get aside as to the count in regard to which
error had been committed, and -the case was remanded to the

OCTOBER T ERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

trial court for'sentence on the count as to which no error was
found to have arisen, and for further proceedings as to the
other count. In Putnam v. United States, 162 U. S. 687,
Where distinct sentences of cncurrent imprisonment had been
imposed under separate counts of an indictment, reversible
error having been found to exist as to one of the counts only,
.hejudgment was affirmed as 'to the count where there was no
error and was reversed as to the other, and the cause was remanded for.further proceedings with respect to the count as
to which error had been committed.
These rulings are absolutely in conflict with the proposition
upon which the plaintiff in error relies, and conclusively demonstrate its unsoundness. True, it is claimed that there is a
distinction between the doctrine announced in these cases and
the proposition here relied on. Thus, it is urged that in the
Claassen case there was no question presented of a failure of
the verdict to affirmatively respond to all the counts in the
indictment, but that the sole issue was, where the verdict did
respond to all the counts and thereafter some of the counts
were found to be bad, whether the verdict and sentence,
which did not exceed the punishment imposed by law for
the offence specified in the good counts, would be held to relate alone to the good counts, and be, therefore, not subject to
reversal. Whilst it is true that the claimed distinction between
the fa~cts in the Claassen case and those in this exists, it is one,
however, which in no way distinguishes the two cases, in so
far as the, legal principle is concerned by which they are to
be determined. This is at once made apparent by considering
that if the charging of distinct offences in several counts in
one inditment so unified the various offences that action on
all of them was necessary to action on any one, the conclusion
reached in the Claassen case was erroneous. The necessary
.effect. of the decision in that case was to establish that, although distinct offences were charged in separate counts in
one indictment, they nevertheless retained their separate
character to such -an -extent that error or failure as to one
had no essential influence upon the other. It is also asserted
that the ruling in Dealy's case does not control the question

SELVESTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

here raised. There, on an indictment charging distinct offences in several counts, the jury returned a verdict of guilty
as to certain of the counts and were silent as to the others.
The maintaining of this verdict, it is urged, did not import
the right of a jury to agree to convict as to some counts and
disagree as to others, since the court in that case imputed the
yerdict to all the counts, and, therefore, treated it as affirmatively responsive to all. That is, the argument by which
alone it is possible to distinguish this case from the Dealy
case must rest on the extreme and unsound assertion that in
that case, although the record plainly disclosed that the jury
had found only as to certain counts, nevertheless the court,
as a matter of fact, held that the jury had found as to all.
The statement in the opinion in the Dealy case to which we
have already referred and cited, that the silence of the verdict
as to a particular count "was equivalent to a verdict of not
guilty as to that count," when properly understood, does not
lend itself to the construction which the argument seeks to
place upon it. The contention arises from a failure to observe the difference between discharging a jury on mere
silence on their part as to the guilt or innocence of an accused as to a particular count, and doing so only after a
formal disagreement, and its entry of record. Doubtless,
where a jury, although convicting as to some, are silent as
to other counts in an indictment, and are discharged without
the consent of the accused, as was the fact in the Dealy case,
the effect of such discharge is "equivalent to acquittal," because,-as the record affords no adequate legal cause for the
discharge of the jury, any further attempt to prosecute would
amount to a second jeopardy, as to the charge with reference
to which the jury has been silent. But such obviously is not
the case, where a jury have not been silent as to a particular
count, but where, on the contrary, a disagreement is formally
entered on the record. The effect of such entry justifies the
discharge of the jury, and therefore a subsequent prosecution
for the offence as to which the jury has disagreed and on
account of which it has been regularly discharged, would
not constitute second jeopardy. The error in the convic

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Concurring Opinion: Gray, Brown, Shiras, JJ.

tion may additionally be shown by presupposing that each
crime charged in several, counts of Qne indictment, instead
of being included in one, had been prosecuted by way of
separate indictments as to each. Under these conditions, if
a charge contained in any one of the indictments had been
submitted to the jury, and the court had after such submission, and without verdict, undertaken of its own motion, over
objection, to discharge the jury, it is elementary that such
discharge would be equivalent to an acquittal of the particular
charge for which the accused was tried, since it would bar a
subsequent prosecution. But if, on the other hand, after the
case had been submitted to the jury, they reported their inability to agree, and the court made record of it and discharged
them, such discharge would not be equivalent to an acquittal,
since it would not bar the further prosecution. This distinction was illustrated by the rulings in the cases of Putnam and
Ballew, supra. In those cas6s, as the error found to exist as
to the particular counts which caused the reversal, prevented
the trial as to these counts from constituting legal jeopardy,
the case as to such counts was remanded for further proceedings thereunder, although the conviction as to the counts in
which there was no error was maintained.
Afirm ed.
MR. JusTiOE GRAY, M . JUSTICE BROWN and Mn. JUSTIcE
Srtmns concurred in part, as follows:

We concur in the judgment of affirmance, and upon this
short ground: The indictment contained four counts. The
defendant pleaded not guilty to the whole indictment, and
thereby joined issue on each and all of the counts; and the
jury ihight find the defendant guilty upon' all or any of them.
The jury did return a verdict of guilty upon each of the first
threef-c6unts, and disagreed as to the fourth count. The jury
thus ans~vered the whole of the issue presented by the plea to
each of the first three-counts, and failed to answer the- issue
presented by the plea to the fourth count. Their failure to
return a verdict on the fourth count did not affect the validity

SELVESTER v. UNITED STATES.
Concurring Opinion: Gray, Brown, Shiras, JJ.

of the verdict returned on the other three counts, or the liability of the defendant to be sentenced on that verdict. The
defendant was sentenced upon those counts only upon which
he had been convicted by the jury. There is no error, therefore, in the judgment rendered upon the verdict.
But in so much of the opinion of the court, as suggests that
the plaintiff in error may be hereafter tried, convicted and
sentenced anew upon the fourth count, we are unable to
concur. No attempt has been made to try him anew, and the
question whether he may be so tried is not presented by this
record. Upon principle, on one indictment and against one
defendant there can be but one judgment and sentence, and
that at one time, and for the offence or offences of which he
has been convicted; and a sentence, upon the counts on which
he has been convicted by the jury, definitely and conclusively
disposes of the whole indictment, operates as an acquittal
upon, or a discontinuance of, any count on which the jury
have failed to agree, and makes any further proceedings
against him on that count impossible. No case has been
found, in which, after a conviction and sentence, remaining
unreversed, on some of the counts in an indictment, .a second
sentence, upon a subsequent trial and conviction on another
count in the same indictment, has been affirmed by a court of
error.
In Ballew v. United States, 160 U. S. 187, 203, and in Putnaam v. United States, 162 U. S. 687, 715, in each of which a
judgment upon conviction on an indictment containing two
counts was affirmed as to one count, and reversed as to the
other count, the order of reversal did not direct a new trial on
the latter count, but was guardedly framed in general terms
"for such proceedings with reference to that count as may be
in conformity to law; " and under such an order it would be
open to the defendant, if set at the bar to be tried again on
that count, to plead the previous verdict and sentence in bar
of the prosecution.

