438

OCTOBER TERIE, 1897.
Syllabus.

way (whose road was wholly in the State of Iowa) and was carried by this company to Brighton, and was there delivered by
its servants upon the platform of its freight station. Taking
into consideration that so much of the transportation as was
performed by an interstate railroad company had been accomplished, and that the remainder of the transportation was by
an Iowa corporation and wholly within the State of Iowa, and
had been so far completed as to land the intoxicating liquor
upon the soil of Iowa, we are of opinion that there had been
Can arrival in such State," so as to subject the
liquor to the
exercise of the police powers of the State of Iowa, within the
letter and the spirit of the act of Congress.

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 1).
APPEAL FRO.Al THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 514. Argued March 9, 10, 1698.- Decided May 9, 1898.

It is settled by previous adjudications of this court:
(1) That thp respective States have plenary power to regulate the
sale
of intoxicating liquors within their borders, and the scope
and

extent of such regulations depend solely on the judgment of the

lawmaking power of the States, provided always, they
do not
transcend the limits of state authority by invading rights which
are secured by the Constitution of the United States, and
provided further, that the regulations as adopted do not operate
a

discrimination against the rights of residents or citizens of other
States of the Union;

(2)

That the right to send liquors from one State into another, and tie
act of sending the same, is interstate commerce, the regulation
Whereof has been committed by the Constitution of the United
States to Congress, and, hence, that a state law which denies
such

a right, or substantially interferes with or hampers the same, is
(3)

in conflict with the Constitution of the United States;

That the power to ship merchandise from one State into another

carries with it, as an incident, the right in the receiver of
the
goods to sell them in the original packages, any state regulation
to the contrary notwitbstanding; that is to say, that the
goods

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 1).

439

Statement of the Case.
received .by interstate commerce remain under the shelter of the
interstate commerce clause of the Constitution, until by a sale in
the original package they have been commingled with the general
mass of property in the State; but, since the passage of the act
of August 8, 1890, c. 728, 26 Stat. 313, which provides "that all
fermented, distilled or other intoxicating liquors or liquids transported into any State or Territory, or remaining therein for use,
consumption, sale or storage therein, shall upon arrival in such
State or Territory be subject to the operation and effect of the
laws of such State or Territory enacted in the exercise of its
police powers, to the same extent and in the same manner as
though such liquids or liquors had been produced in such State or
Territory, and shall not -beexempt therefrom by reason of being
introduced therein in original packages or otherwise," while the
-receiver of intoxicating liquors in one State, sent from another
State, has the constitutional right to receive them for his own
use, without regard to the state laws to the contrary, he can no
longer assert a right to sell them in the original packages in defiance of state law.
The South Carolina act of March 5, 1897, No. 340, amending the act of
March 6, 1896, No. 61, is unconstitutional in so far as it compels the
resident of the State who desires to order alcoholic liquors for his own
use, to first communicate his purpose to a state chemist, and in so far
as it deprives any non-resident of the right to ship by means of interstate
comrnerce any liquor into South Carolina unless previous authority is
obtained from the officers of the State of South Carolina, since as, on
the face of these regulations, it is clear that they, subject the constitutional right of the non-resident to ship into the State and of the resident
in the State to receive for his own use, to conditions which are wholly
incompatible with and repugnant to the existence of the right which the
statute itself acknowledges.

THEi bill below was filed by the appellee, a corporation
created by the laws of California and a citizen of that State.
It alleged, in substance, that the corporation was the owner
of large vineyards in California, from which it produced weil
known qualities of pure wines and brandies and other liquors;
that through its travelling agent, a citizen of the State of
Virginia, it took orders from certain residents of the State of
South Carolina residing in the city of Charleston, to deliver
to each of them in Charleston certain original packages of
wines and brandies, the products of the vineyards of the complainant; that in consequence of 'said orders seventy-three
original packages for the customers aforesaid were shipped

OCTOBER TERII, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

in one car, by a contract for continuous interstate carriage
from San Francisco to Charleston; that under a law of South.
Carolina, known as the dispensary law, certain officers of the
State of South Carolina had seized the packages of liquor
above described and prevented the delivery thereof, and openly
avowed their intention to continue to levy upon any packages
of liquor shipped into the State of South Carolina in violation of the law of the State. The bill moreover alleged another shipment of the same character and a like seizure. The
bill then averred as follows:
"And your orator further shows that your orator intends in
the course of its said business, as aforesaid, further and in addition to said shipments so ordered by its said customers in advance, as aforesaid, to ship also from San Francisco, California,
to its agent in the State of South Carolina, and to store and
warehouse in the State of South Carolina, and to sell in the
State of South Carolina, in the original unbroken packages as
imported, as aforesaid, to the residents and citizens of the State
of South Carolina, its wines and other liquors, products of its
vineyards, as aforesaid, for the lawful use and consumption of
the said residents and citizens of the State of South Carolina
in the due and lawful exercise of your orator's right of importation of such wines, etc., products of its vineyards, into the
State of South Carolina in lawful intercourse, trade and commerce with the citizens and residents of the State of South
Carolina, under the Constitution and laws of the United
States, all of which shipments, as aforesaid, the defendants
and other persons claiming to act as state constables and officials threaten to seize, take and carry away, detain, convert
and sell, to the manifest wrong, damage and injury of your
orator and its trade and business, as aforesaid.
"And your orator further shows that by and under the
terms, principle, policy and operation of the said dispensary
law of the State of South Carolina, as aforesaid, approved
March 6, 1896, and amended March 5, 1897, all wines, beers,
ales, alcoholic, spirituous and other intoxicating liquors are
subjects of lawful manufacture, barter, sale, export and inport in the State of South Carolina, and have been, are being,

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 1).

441

Opinion of the Court.

and will continue to be lawfully used and consumed as a
beverage by the citizens and residents of the State of South
Carolina."
Averring the avowed purpose of the state officers to continue to seize all liquors thereafter shipped by the complainant
into the State to residents therein or for sale in original packages, the bill proceeded to charge that the state law upon
which the officers relied was void, because repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States. That to prevent the continuing wrong which would necessarily arise from the conduct of the state officers and to avoid a multiplicity of suits,
a writ of injunction was necessary restraining the state
officers from interfering with complainant in its shipment of
its products to residents of the State on their orders, and also
enjoining the state officers from interfering with the coinplainant in shipping its products from the State of California
into the State of South Carolina to its agents there for the
purpose of selling the same in original packages, the provisions
of the South Carolina law to the contrary notwithstanding.
This mere outline of the averments of the bill suffices to convey an understanding of the controversy which the record
presents. A restraining order was granted as prayed for
against the designated state officers, and after due pleadings
and proceedings this restraining order was perpetuated, and a
final decree was entered in favor of the complainant in accordance with the prayer of the bill.
-.Mr. William A. Barber, Attorney General of the State of
South Carolina, for appellants.
Xr. J. P. Kennedy Bryan for appellee.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.
In the two cases of Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58, 107, the
court was called upon to determine whether a law of the State
of South Carolina, controlling the -sale of intoxicating liquors
within that State, was repugnant to the Constitution of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
-Opinion of the Court.

United States. In one of the cases it was held that the court
below had jurisdiction to entertain a bill filed by the complainants to enjoin the execution of the law, as to liquors by them,
owned; while in both cases it was decided that, in so far as
the law then in question forbade the sending from one State
into South Carolina of intoxicating liquors for the use of the
person to whom it was shipped, the statute was repugnant to
the third clause of section 8 of the first article of the Constitution of the United States, commonly spoken of as the Interstate Commerce clause of the Constitution. It was besides
decided that the law in question, which created state officers or
agents with authority to buy liquor to be sold in the State,
and which forbade the sale of any liquor except that so bought
and offered for sale by the state officers or agents, was also in
violation of the Constitution of the ,United States, because
amounting -to an unjust discrimination against liquors, the
products of other States. The conclusion reached on this latter
subject was predicated not on the general theory which the
statute put in practice, but on particular provisions of the law
by which the discrimination was brought about. Whether
a State could, without violating the Constitution of the United
States, confer upon certain officers or agents the sole power to
buy all liquors which were to be sold in the State, allowing no
other liquor to be sold except that offered for sale by the desitnated officers or agents, was not decided. On the contrary,
this question was reserved, for as the state law was found to
violate the Constitution because of express discriminatory provisions which it contained, it became unnecessary to determine
whether a law of that general character would be inherently
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. Referring
to this last question, the court said (p. 101)
"It was pressed on us in the argument that it is not competent for a State, in the-exercise of its police power, to monopolize the traffic in intoxicating liquors, and thus put itself in
competition with the citizens of other States. This phase of
the subject is novel and interesting, but we do not think it necessary for us now to consider it. It is sufficient for the present case to hold, as we do, that when a State recognizes the

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 1).

443

Opinion of the Court.

manufacture, sale and use of intoxicating liquors as lawful it
cannot discriminate against the bringing of such articles in
and importing them from other States; that such legislation
is void as a hindrance to interstate commerce and an unjust
preference of the products of the enacting State as against
similar products of other States."
The controversy which this record presents arises from a
law of South Carolina, similar in its general scope to the one
which was under review in Scott v. Donald. The statute
before us, however, was enacted after the decision in Scott v.
Donald, and changes in many important particulars the law
which was passed on in that case. The statute, as changed,
retains the general provisions conferring on the state officers
or agents the exclusive right to buy all liquor which is to be
sold in the State and to sell the same, but does not contain
those clauses in the previous statute which were held to operate
a discrimination. It, moreover, modifies the previous statute
to the extent that it allows shipments of intoxicating liquors to
be made from other States into the State of South Carolina to
residents therein for their own use, but subjects the exercise
of this rigit to designated regulations and restrictions. Despite these differences, it is asserted that the present law is
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States for the
following reasons: .First,because although the features in the
prior act which were held to be discriminatory have been
eliminated from this act, nevertheless there are, it is asserted,
other provisions in the present act which on their face amount
to a discrimination, and therefore render the act void.
Second, because as the act as at present drawn created state
officers and confers upon them the power to buy all the liquor
which is to be sold in the State, and forbids the sale of any
other liquor by any other person, it is therefore in violation
of the Constitution of the United States to the extent that
it seeks to control'or forbid the sale in original packages
of all liquor shipped into South Carolina from other States.
And this controversy presents for consideration the question
which was reserved in Scott v. Donald. Third, because,
although the amended statute recognizes the right of residents

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

of other States to ship intoxicating liquors to the residents of
South Carolina and their right to receive the same, for their
own use, it, in reality, it is asserted, denies such right, since
its exercise is subjected to conditions which hamper and frustrate the same to such a degree that they are equivalent to a
denial of the right itself. The two first contentions go to the
whole statute, and therefore, if well taken, render it void as
an entirety. The third is narrower in its purport, since it only
assails as unconstitutional the particular restricions which the
statute imposes upon the right of the residents of another
State to ship into South Carolina and of the residents of that
State to receive liquor for their own use. We, therefore, at
the outset, dispose of the twc first contentions before approaching the third.
In the inception it is necessary to bear in mind a fev
elementary propositions, which are so entirely concluded by
the previous adjudications of this court, that they need only
be briefly recapitulated.
(a.) Beyond dispute the respective States have plenary
power to regulate the sale of intoxicating liquors within their
borders, and the scope and extent of such regulations depend
solely on the judgment of the lawmaking power of the States,
provided always, they do not transcend the limits of state
authority by invading rights which are secured by the Constitution of the United States, and provided further, that
the regulations as adopted do not operate a discrimination
a-ainst the rights of residents or citizens of other States of the
Union.
(b.) Equally well established is the proposition that the
right to send liquors from one State into another, and the
act of sending the same, is Interstate Commerce, the regulation whereof has been committed by the Constitution of the
United States to Congress. and, hence, that a state law which
denies such a right, or substantially interferes with or hampers
the same, is in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States.
(c.) It is also certain that the settled doctrine is that the
power to ship merchanilise from-one-State into -nother car-

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 1).

445

Opinion of the Court.

ries with it, as an incident, the right in the receiver of the
goods tW sell them in the original packages, any state regulation to the contrary notwithstanding; that is to say, that the
goods received by Interstate Commerce remain under the
shelter of the Interstate Commerce clause of the Constitution, until by a sale in the original package they have been
commingled with the general mass of property in the State.
This last proposition, however, whilst generically true, is
no longer applicable to intoxicating liquors, since Congress
in the exercise of its lawful authority has recognized the
power of the several States to control the incidental right of
sale in the original packages; of intoxicating liquors, shipped
into one State from another, so as to enable the States to prevent the exercise by the receiver of the accessory right of
selling intoxicating liquors in original packages except in
conformity to lawful state regulations. In other words, by
virtue of the act of Congress the receiver of intoxicating
liquors in one State, sent from another, can no longer assert
a right to sell in defiance of the state law in the original
packages, because Congress has recognized to the contrary.
The act of Congress referred to, c. 728, was approved August
8, 1890, and is entitled "An act to limit the effect of the regulations of commerce between the several States and with foreign countries in certain cases." It reads as follows:
"That all fermented, distilled or other intoxicating liquors
or liquids transported into any State or Territory, or remaining therein for use, consumption, sale or storage therein, shall
upon arrival in such State or Territory be subject to the operation and effect of the laws-of such State or Territory enacted
in the exercise of its police powers, to the same extent and in
the same manner as though such liquids or liquors had been
produced in such State or Territory, and shall not be exempt
therefrom by reason of being introduced therein in original
packages or otherwise." 26 Stat. 313.
The scope and effect of this act of Congress have been settled. In r'e Rahrer, 140 U. S.545 ; Rhodes v. Iowa, ante, 412.
In the first of these cases the constitutional power of Congress to pass the enactment in question was upheld, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

purpose of Congress in adopting it was declared to have been
to allow state laws to operate on liquor shipped into one State
from another, so as to prevent the sale in the original package
in violation of state laws. In the second case the same view
was taken of the statute, and although it was decided that
the power of the State did not attach to the intoxicating
liquor when in course of transit and until receipt and delivery, it was yet reiterated that the obvious and plain meaning of the act of Congress was to allow the state laws to
attach to intoxicating liquors received by Interstate Cornmerce shipments before sale in the original package, and
therefore at such a time as to prevent such sale if made unlawful by the state law.
The claim that the state statute is unconstitutional because
it deprives of the right to sell imported liquor in the original
packages rests, therefore, on the assumption that the state
law is a regulation of Interstate Commerce, because it forbids
the doing of an act which in consequence of the permissive
grant resulting from the act- of Congress, the State had undoubtedly the lawful power to do. Indeed, the entire argument by which it is endeavored to maintain the contention
arises from excluding from view the change as to the sale of
intoxicating liquor arising from the act of Congress; that is,
it rests on the fallacious assumption that the State is without
power to forbid the sale of intoxicating liquors in original
packages despite the act of Congress, while in fact, as a result of that act, the restrictions and regulations of state laws
become operative on the original package before the sale
thereof, and therefore such packages cannot be sold if the
state law forbids the sale, or can be only so sold in the manner and form prescribed by the state regulations. In view of
the self-evident misconception upon which the argument proceeds, it becomes unnecessary to review the many decisions
of this court cited in support of the proposition relied upon.
Their authority is unquestioned, but their irrelevancy is equally
obvious. They all relate to and illustrate various aspects of
the principle that the right to send merchandise from one
State to another carries with it as an incident the power of

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 1).

447

Opinion of the Court.

the one by whom they are received to sell them in the original package, even although so doing may be contrary tc a
state law. None of them have the remotest bearing on the
exception to this general rule springing from the act of Congress. The right of the State to forbid the sale of liquors in
the original packages being clear, it results that a state law
cannot be void because in excess of state authority, when it is
but the execution of a power lawfully vested in the legislature
of the State. This reasoning would dispose of the case, but
for the contention that the act of Congress in question has no
bearing on the controversy, and indeed that in this case the
power of the State to control the -sale of intoxicants in an
original packag6 must be determined just as if the act of
Congress had never been passed.
Congress, it is argued, by the act in question has submitted
merchandise in original packages only to the control of state
laws "enacted in the exercise of its police powers." As the
state law here in question does not forbid, but, on the contrary, authorizes the sale of intoxicants within the State,
hence it is not a police law, therefore not enacted in the exercise of the police power of the State, and consequently does
not operate upon the sale of original packages within the
State. But the premise upon which these arguments rest is
purely arbitrary and imaginary. From the fact that the
state law permits the sale of liquor subject to particular
restrictions and only upon enumerated conditions, it does not
follow that the law is not a manifestation of the police power
of the State. The plain purpose of the act of Congress having
been to allow state regulations to operate upon the sale of
original pabkages of intoxicants coming from other States, it
would destroy its obvious meaning to construe it as permitting
the state laws to attach to and control the sale only in case
the States absolutely forbade sales of liquor, and not to apply
in case the States determined to restrict or regulate the same.
. The confusion of thought which is involved in'the proposition to which we.have just referred is embodied in the principle upon which the court below mainly rested its conclusion.
That is, "if -all alcoholic liquors, by whomsoever held, are

OCTOBER TERM21,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

declared contraband, they cease to belong to commerce, and
are within the jurisdiction of the police power; but so long as
their manufacture, purchase or sale, and their use as a beveage in any form or by any person are recognized, they belong
to commerce and are without the domain of the police power."
But this restricts the police power to the mere right to forbid,
and denies any and all authority to regulate or restrict. The
manifest purpose of the act of Congress was to subject original packages to the regulations and restraints imposed by the
state law. If the purpose of the act had been to allow the
state aW to govern the sale of the original package only
where the sales of all liquor were forbidden, this object could
have found ready expression, whilst, on the contrary, the
entire context of the act manifests the purpose of Congress to
give to the respective States full legislative authority, both for
the purpose of prohibition as well as for that of regulation and
restriction with reference to the sale in original packages of
intoxicating liquors brought in from other States.
Nor is the claim well founded that it was decided in Scott v.
JDonald that the provisions of the act of Congress of 1890 do
not apply in any State by whose laws the sale of liquor is not
absolutely forbidden, that is to say, that the right exists to
sell original packages in violation of the state laws wherever
they do not prohibit liquor from being sold under any circunstances. The language in Scott v. Donald, which it is asserted
establishes this doctrine, is as follows (p. 100):
"It (the'South Carolina law then considered) is not a law
purporting to forbid the importation, manufacture, sale and use
of intoxicating liquors, as articles detrimental to the welfare
of the State and to the health of the inhabitants, and hence 'it
is not within the scope and operation of the act of Congress
of August, 1890."
Separated from its context these words might have the
significance sought to be attached to them, but when elucidated by a reference to what immediately preceded them, and
that which immediately followed, it is obvious that they refer
to the matter which was being considered, that is, a state law
which did not forbid the sale, but, on the contrary, allowed it,

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (-No. 1).

449

Opinion of the Court.

under conditions of express discrimination against the prodEmmediately following the passage
ucts of other States.
cited is this language:
"That law (the act of Congress) was not intended to confer
upon'any State the power to discriminate injuriously against
the products of other States in articles whose manufacture
and use are not forbidden, and which are therefore the subjects of legitimate commerce. When that law provided that
'all fermented, distilled or intoxicating liquors transported
into any State or Territory, remaining therein for use, consumption, sale or storage therein, should, upon arrival in such
State or Territory, be subject to the operation and effect of
the laws of such State or Territory enacted in the exercise of
its police powers, to the same extent and in the same manner
as though such liquids or liquors had been produced in such
State or Territory, and should not be exempt therefrom by
reason of being introduced therein in original packages or
otherwise,' evidently equality or uniformity of treatment under
state laws was intended. The question whether a given state
law is a lawful exercise of the police power is still open, and
must remain open, to this court. Such a law may forbid entirely the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors and be
valid. Or it may provide equal regulations for the inspection
and sale of all domestic and, imported liquors and be valid.
But the State cannot, under the Congressional legislation
referred to, establish a system which, in effect, discriminates
between interstate and domestic commerce in commodities to
make and use which are admitted to be lawful."
Having found that the law under consideration expressly
discriminated against the products of bther States, the question which arose for decision was whether the act of Congress
allowed such a law to operate on the original package, and it
became therefore not necessary to decide what would b6 the
rule where discrimination did not exist.. The conclusion expressed on that branch of the case was this and nothing more,
that although the act of Congress authorizes a state law to
attach to an original package so as to prevent its sale, it did not
contemplate and sanction the operation of a state law Ohich
VOL. CLXX-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

injuriously discriminated against the products of other States,
and which in consequence of such discrimination was not a
police law in the correct sense of those words. It would lead
to an impossible conclusion to treat the sentences in Scott v.
-Donald,upon which reliance is placed as having the significance- attributed to them in argument, since, as we have
already stated, the court expressly reserved the question of
whether a state law which undertook to confer on its officers
power to buy all liquor which was to be sold in the State
would be constitutional if no express discriminatory provisions
were found in it. It is obvious from even a casual reading of
the opinion that the court did not pass on the very question
which it expressly declared it abstained from deciding.
A more plausible but equally unsound proposition is involved
in the contention that the state law in question is inherently
discriminatory. The argument by which this is supported is
as follows: The law gives to the state officers exclusive
right to purchase all the liquor to be sold in the State. The
authority to purchase includes the right on the part of the
buyer to determine from whom and-;vhere the purchase may
be made. This gives the officers the opportunity, by exercising their right of purchase, to buy in one State to the detriment and exclusion of the products of every other State. As
no other product, then, but that which the officers buy can be
sold in the State, it follows that, although intoxicants will be
freely offered for sale in the State, only liquors coming from
the State in which the officer has purchased will be so sold,
and the products of.all other States will be excluded from sale
and be thereby discriminated against. And whether these
consequences will arise will depend solely upon the arbitrary
discretion of the state officers in determining where and from
whom the liquor that they propose to offer for sale will be by
them purchased. This, it is argued, demonstrates the inherent
discrimination arising from legislation which makes state officers the sole persons authorized to buy and sell liquor -a discrimination whose unjust consequences can only be avoided
by recognizing the right of the residents of all other States to
ship their pro(ucts into the State and sell them in original

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 1).

451

Opinion- of the Court.

packages. In the first place, to maintain this proposition, the
presumption must be indulged in that the state officer, in purchasing as provided by the state statute, instead of buying
fairly and in the best markets, affording an equal chance to
all sellers and to every locality, will, on the contrary, so act
as to discriminate against the products of one or more States
and in favor of those of others.
Such, a presumption would be.equally justified in case the
state law authorized only residents to be licensed to sell liquor
and restricted the number of such licenses. The persons so
licensed, whether one or one hundred, -would buy where they
pleased the liquor they proposed to sell, and it would therefore
be fully as cogerit to argue that they might elect to buy in
one place instead of another, and thus discriminate against
the persons or places from where or from whom they did not
buy. The argument will not be strengthened, even if it be
cqnceded that there is a difference between licensing a number
of persons to buy or sell and concentrating the power, to buy
all the liquor to be sold, in the hands of state officers, and
by further conceding that whether the statute discriminates
against producers of other States is to be determined solely
by the power to bring about the discrimination which might
arise from its execution, and not by whether the power has
been so carried out as to cause an actual discrimination.
Under these concessions there would doubtless be force in the
position taken, if the authority of the state officers to buy the
liquor to be by them sold, excluded the right of the residents
of every other State to ship to the residents of South Carolina
liquor for their own use, for in that event the products of the
State from which no liquor was bought by the state officers
would be wholly excluded from the State, although by the
state law liquor could be sold therein by the state agents.
But the weight of the contention is overcome when it is considered that the Interstate Commerce clause of the Constitution
guarantees the right to ship merchandise from one State into
another, and protects it until the termination of the shipment
by delivery at the place of consignment, and this right is
wholly unaffected by the act of Congress which allows state

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

authority to attach to the original package before sale but

only after delivery. Scott v. Donald,supra; Rhodes v. Iowa,

supra. It follows that under the Constitution of the United
States every resident of South Carolina is free to receive for
his own use liquor from other States and that the inhibitions
of a state statute do not operate to prevent liquors from other
States from being shipped into such State, on the order of a
resident for his use. This demonstrates the unsoundness of
the contention that if state agents are the only ones authorized
to buy liquor for sale in a State, and they select the liquor to
be sold from particular States, the products of other States
will be excluded. They cannot be excluded if they are free
to come infor the use of any resident of South Carolina who
may'elect to order them for his use. The products of other
States will be, of course, excluded from sale in the original
packages in the State, but as the right of the State to prevent
the sale in original packages of intoxicants coming from other

States, in consequence of the state law forbidding the sale of
any but certain liquor, attaches to the original packages from
other States by virtue of the act of Congress, the inability to
make such sales arises from a lawful state enactment. To hold
the law unconstitutional because it prevents such sale in the
original package would be to decide that the state law was
unconstitutional because it exerted a power which the State

had a lawful right to exercise. Indeed, the law of the State
here under review does not purport to forbid the shipment
into the State from other States of intoxicating liquors for the
use of a resident, and if it did so, it would, upon principle and
under the ruling in Scott v. Donald, to that extent be in conflict with the Constitution of the United States. It is argued,
that the foregoing considerations are inapplicable since the
state law, now before us, whilst it recognizes the right of residents of other States to ship liquor into -South Carolina for the
use of residents therein, attaches to the exercise of that right
such restrictions as virtually destroy it.
But the right of persons in one State to ship liquor into
another State to a resident for his own use is derived from the
Constitution of the United States, and does not rest on the

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 1).

453

Opinion of the Court.

grant of the state law. Either the conditions attached by the
state law unlawfully restrain the right or they do not. If they
do- and we shall hereafter examine this contention-then
they are void. If they do not, then there is no lawful ground
of complaint on the subject,
We are thus brought to examine whether the regulations
imposed by-the state law on the right of the residents of other
States to ship into the State of South Carolina alcoholic liquor
to the residents of that- State when ordered 'by them for their
use, are so onerous and burdensome in their nature as to substantially impair the right; that is, whether they so hamper
and restrict the exercise of the right as to materially interfere
with or, in effeit; prevent its enjoyment.
Before, however, approaching this question, we briefly dispose of two other contentins. It is said that the law now
before us is expressly discriminatory, since it really contains the
provisions found in the previous statute, and which were held
in Scott v. Donald, to be repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States. This argument is predicated on the following
proposition: The law now before us was passed subsequent to
the decision in Scott v. Donald, holding that the discriminatory clauses in the previous act were void, and it entirely omits
them. Its repealing clause, however, only repeals laws inconsistent therewith, and the argument is, that as the provisions
found in the previous law, and which were' declared unconstitutional by this court, are. not inconsistent with the present
law, therefore they continue to exist, and the present law must
be interpreted as if they were written in it. The error of the
argument is so self evident as to require only a passing notice.
The -very fact that the omitted provisions had been before the
enactment of the new law declared to be uneonstitutional
affords a conclusive demonstration of their inconsistency with
the pres6nt law. In addition, the fact that the present law
has omitted the provisions which had been declared unconstitutional excludes the supposition that it was the intention of
the new law, by silence on the subject, to perpetuate and reenact the void provisions. It is, moreover, contended that
there is an express discrimination found in the present stat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ute, which was not referred to in Scott v. Donald, the provision in question being one which authorizes the use by a resident
of South Carolina of wine or liquor made by him for such purpose. The context of the entire statute conclusively demonstrates that the right thus given in an exceptional and limited
case in no way relieves alcoholic liquors made by a citizen of
South Carolina for his own use from the restrictions imposed
by the statute as to the sale of all other liquors, and this, therefore, leaves liquor made by a resident for his own use, under
the contol of the general regulations which the statute creates,
and this completely answers the contention.
The right recognized by the State in residents of another
State to, Ahip into South Carolina to a resident of that State
liquor'for his" own use is regulated by the statute as follows,
act of March 5, 1897, No. 340, amending the act of March 6,
1896, No. 61 :
. "Any person resident in this State intending to import for
personal use and consumption any spirituous, malt, vinous, fermented, brewed or other liquor, containing alcohol, from any
other State or foreign country, shall first certify to the chemist
of the South Carolina College the quantity and kind of liquor
proposed to be imported, together with the name and place of
business of the person, firm or corporation from whom it is
desired to purchase, accompanying such certificate with a statement that the proposed consignor has been requested to forward a sample of such liquor to the said chemist at Columbia,
South Carolina. Upon the receipt of said sample, the said
chemist shall immediately proceed to test the same, and if it
be found to be pure and free from any poisonous, hurtful or
deleterious matter, he shall issue a cortificate to that effect,
stating therein the name of the proposed consignor and consignee, and the quantity and kind of liquor proposed to be
imported thereunder, which certificate shall be dated and forwarded by the said chemist, postpaid, to the proposed consignor at his place of business. The said consignor shall cause
such certificate to be attached to the package containing the
liquor when it is shipped into this State, and no package bearing such certificate shall be liable to seizure and confiscation;

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 1).

455

Opinion of the Court.

but any package of spirituous, malt, vinous, fermented, brewed
or other liquid or liquor containing alcohol imported into this
State without such certificate, or any package containing
liquor other than that described in the certificate thereto
attached, or any package shipped by or to any person or persons not named in such certificate, shall be seized and confiscated as provided in this act. Any certificate obtained from
the chemist as herein provided shall be used within sixty days
after the date of its issue, and shall be invalid thereafter. It
shall be unlawful to use said certificates for more than one
importation."
The regulation, then, compels the resident of the State
who desires to order for his own use, to first communicate his
purpose to a state chemist. It moreover deprives any nonresident of the right to ship l6y means of Interstate Commerce
any liquor into South Carolina unless previous authority is
obtained from the officers of the State of South Carolina.
On the face of these regulations, it is clear that they subject
the constitutional right of the non-resident to ship into the
State and of the resident in the State to receive for his own
use, to conditions which are wholly incompatible with and
repugnant to- the existence of the right which the statute
itself acknowledges. The right of the citizen of another
State to avail himself of Interstate Commerce cannot be held
to be subject to the issuing of a certificate by an officer of he
State of South Carolina, without admitting the power of that
officer to control the exorcise of the right. But the.right
arises from the Constitution of the United States; it exists
wholly independent of the will of either the lawmaking or the
executive power of the State; it takes its origin outside of the
State of South Carolina, and finds its support in the Constitution of the United States. Whether or not it may be exercised depends solely upon the will of the person making the
shipment, and cannot be in advance controlled or limited by
the action of the State in any department of its government.
As the law directs that a sample of the'liquor proposed to be
shipped shall besent to the state officerin advance of th- shipment, and as a prerequisite for obtaining permission to make a

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the -Court.

subsequent shipment, it is claimed in argument that this law
is an inspection law passed for the purpose of guaranteeing
the purity of the product to be shipped into the State for the
use of a resident therein, and therefore it is but a valid manifestation of the police power of the State exerted for the purposes of inspection only.. But it is obvious that this argument
is unsound, as the inspection of a sample sent in advance is
not in the slightest degree an inspection of the goods subsequently shipped into the State. The sample may be one
thing and the merchandise which thereafter comes in another.
It is hence beyond reason to say that the law provides for an
inspection of the goods shipped into the State from other
States, -when in fact it exacts no inspection whatever. Conceding, without deciding, the power of the State where it has
placed the control of the sale of all liquor within the State in
charge of its own officers to provide an inspection of liquors
shipped into a State by residents of other States for use, by
residents within the State, it is clear that such a law to be
valid must not substantiallyhamper or burden the constitutional right on the one hand to make and on the other to
receive. such shipment. A law of this nature must at least
provide for some inspection of the article to justify its being
an inspection law. The power of the State to inspect an
article protected by the guarantees of the Constitution,
because intended only for use and which cannot be sold, is in
the nature of things restrained -by limitations arising from the
constitutiqnal provisions of a more restricted nature than
would be the power to inspect articles intended for sale within
the Statb. The greater harm and abuse which might arise
in the latter case suggests a wider power than is incident to
the other.
It follows from the foregoing that the decree below rendered was well founded in so .far as it restrained the defendants from seizing the property shipped into the State of
South Carolina from the State of California by the complainant for the residents' of the State of South Carolina on the
orders of such 'residents for their own use, because said shipments had not been made in compliance with the regulations

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 1).

457

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, J., Fuller, C.J., McKenna, J.

of the law of South Carolina. But it further follows that the
decree below was wrong in so far as it restrained the state
officers from levying upon the property of the complainant
shipped into the State to agents of complainant for the purpose of being stored and sold therein in original packages and
from interfering with such sales. These conclusions require
that the judgment below be affirmed in part and reversed in
part.
This renders it necessary to remand the case to the court
below with instructions to enter a decree setting aside the injunction and dismissing the bill to the extent above indicated,
and perpetuating the injunction only in so far as is above
.ointed out, the whole in accordance with the views herein
above expressed, and it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE SnmRAs dissenting in part, with whom the
CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JusTiE McKENNA concurred.
In the opinion and judgment of the court, in so far as they
affirm the decree of the Circuit Court restraining the state
officers from seizing property shipped into the State of South
Carolina from the State of California by the complainant for
residentsof South Carolina on their order for their own use,
I fully concur. But the reasons which lead me to so concur
constrain me to withhold my assent from that portion of said
opinion and judgment which reverses the decree below, in
respect that it restrained such officers from levying -upon and
confiscating property of the complainant shipped into the
State to agents for the purpose of being stored and sold
therein in original packages.
In the few observations I shall submit it will be assumed,
as well settled, that before the passage of the act of August 8,
1890, known as the Wilson Act, it was not within the power
of any State to forbid the importation of wines and liquors
from foreign countries or other States, nor their sale in the
original packages, nor to subject such sale to discrimifiatory
taxes or regulations. Walling v. -Michigan, 116 F. S. 446;
Bowman v. Chicago Railway. Co., 125 U' S. 465, 507;

OCTOBER TER-M, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, J., Fuller, C.J., McKenna, J.

Ieisy v. Hardin,135 U. S. 100; Lyng v.
lictigan, 135 U. S.
161.
The case before us, therefore, turns upon the proper constructionand application of that statute.
Since its passage it has been considered by this court in two
cases, and the conclusions therein reached will now be pointed
out.
In the case of In re Rahrer, 140 U. S.545, the question for
adjudication was the validity of a constitutional provision of
the State of Kansas, which provided that "the manufacture
and sale of intoxicating liquors shall be forever prohibited in
this State, except for medical, scientific and mechanical purposes," and of certain statutes of that State which declared
that "any person or persons who shall manufacture, sell or
barter any spirituous, malt, vinous, fermented or other intoxicating liquors shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and be punished as hereinafter provided: Provided, however, That such
liquors may be sold for medical, scientific and mechanical purposes as provided in this act;" and it was held that, in the
case of a pdrson arrested by the state authorities for selling
imported liquor oh the 9th day of August, 1890, contrary to
the law of the State which forbade the sale, the act of Congress which had gone into effect on the 8th day of August,
1890, providing that imported liquors should be subject to the
operation and effect of the state laws to the same extent and
inthe same manner as though the liquors had been produced
in the State, justified the imposition of the penalties of the
state law.
It will be perceived that this was a case in which the state
laws wholly prohibited the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors as articles of ordinary consumption and merchandise; and this court said, referring to the Wilson bill,
"Congress did not use terms of permission to the State to act,
but simply removed an impediment to the enforcement of the
state laws in respect to imported packages in their original
condition ..
. • It imparted no power to the State not
then possessed, but allowed imported property to fall at once
upon arrival within the local jurisdiction,"

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMI2PANY (No. 1).

459

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, J., Fuller, C.J., McKenna, J.

In Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58, was presented the question of the validity of the act of the general assembly of
South Carolina, approved January 2, 1895, generally known
as the State Dispensary Law. That legislation did not forbid
the use, manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors, but enacted an elaborate system of regulation, whereby no wines or
liquors, except domestic wines, should be manufactured or
sold except through the agency of a state board of control,
a commissioner and certain county dispensers, and after an
inspection by a state chemist.
Packages of wines and liquors made in other States and
imported by a resident of the State for his own use, and in
the possession of railroad companies which, as common carriers, had brought the packages within the State, were seized
and confiscated as contraband by constables of the State.
This court, after considering certain provisions of the act
which relieved the sale of domestic wines from restrictions
imposed upon imported wines and also those which created
a system of inspection, said"This is not a law purporting to forbid the importation,
manufacture, sale and use of intoxicating liquors, as articles
detrimental to the welfare of the State and to the health of
its inhabitants, and hence is not within the scope and operation of the act of Congress of August 8, 1890. That law was
not intended to confer upon any State the power to discriminate injuriously against the products of other States in articles
whose manufacture and use are not forbidden, and which are
therefore the subjects of legitimate commerce. When that
law provided that 'all fermented, distilled or intoxicating
-liquors, transported into any State or Territory, remaining
therein for use, consumption, sale or storage therein, should,
upon arrival in such State or Territory, be subject to the
operation and effect of the laws of such State or Territory
enacted in the exercise of its police powers, to the same extent and in the same manner as though such liquids or liquors
had been produced in such State or Territory, and should not
be exempt therefrom by reason of being introduced therein in
original packages or otherwise,' evidently equality or uniform-

OCTOBER TERMTI, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, J., Fuller, C.J., McKenna, J.

ity of treatment under state laws was intended. The question
whether a given state law is a lawful exercise of the police
power is still open, and must remain open, to this court. Such
a law may forbid entirely the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors and be valid. Or it may provide equal regulations for the inspection and sale of all domestic and imported
liquors and be valid. But the State cannot, under the Congressional legislation referred to, establish a system which, in
effect, discriminates between interstate and domestic commerce in commodities to make and use which are admitted to
be lawful. . . . It is sufficient for the present case to
hold, as we do, that when a State recognizes the manufacture,
sale and use .of intoxicating liquors as lawful, it cannot discriminate against the bringing of such articles in and importing them from other States; that such legislation is void as a
hindrance to Interstate Commerce and an unjust preference of
the products of the enacting State as against similar prodlcts
of the other States."
Accordingly the conclusion reached was that, as respected
residents of the State of South Carolina de.siring to import
foreign wines and liquors for their own use, the act in question
in that case was void.
In the present case, which arose under a later statute, this
court follows Scott v. Donald in holding that the act is invalid
as sought to be applied to the importation by residents of the
State for their own use, but holds that the residents of other
States cannot import wines and liquors and sell them in the
original packages, although such articles are recognized by
the State as lawful subjects of manufacture, use and sale.
The court concedes that it is not within the power of the
State, even when reinforced by the act of Congress of August,
1890, to deprive a resident of one State of the right to ship
liquor into another State to a resident for his own use, "because uch right is derived from the Constitution of the United
States, and does not rest on the grant of the state law," yet
holds that the act of South Carolina can validly declare that
all liquors imported from other States, for the purpose of sale
in original packages, can be seized and confiscated, the corn-

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 1).

461

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, J., Fuller, C.J., McKenna, J.

mon qarrier thereof subjected to fine, and the consignee, if he
removes the liquors from the depot or pays freight or express
charges thereon, subjected to a fine of five hundred dollars,
and to an imprisonment of twelve months at hard labor in the
state penitentiary.
Such legislation manifestly forbids Interstate Commerce in
articles whose manufacture and sale within the State are
permitted, and, in view of the previous decisions of this court,
can only be defended by invoking the provisions of the act of
Congress. This seems to be the theory upon which the opinion of the iajority proceeds, as shown by the following
statement: "The claim that the state statute is unconstitutional because it deprives of the right to sell imported liquors
in the original packages, rests on the assumption that the
state law is a regulation of Interstate Commerce, because it
forbids the doing of an act which, in consequence of the permissive grant resulting from the act of Congress, the State
had undoubtedly the lawful power to do. Indeed, the entire
argument by which it is endeavored to maintain the contention arises from excluding from view the change as to the sale
of intoxicating liquors arising from the act of Congress."
But, if the act of Congress can validly operate to authorize
the State to forbid the sale in original packages of imported
articles of the same kind with those whose manufacture and
sale within the State are permitted and regulated, I am unable
to see why it cannot also operate to authorize the State to forbid the importation for use. Once concede that it is competent
for Congress to abdicate its control over Interstate Commerce
in articles whose manufacture, sale and use are lawful within
the State, and to confer upon the State the power to forbid
importation of such articles for sale, it must follow that it
would equally be competent for Congress to authorize the
State to forbid the importation of such articles for use. And,
conversely, if it be not competent for Congress to authorize a
State to forbid the importation for use of articles whose use in
domestic commerce is lawful, so it would not be competent
for Congress to authorize a State to forbid the importation for
sale of articles whose sale in domestic commerce is lawful.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1897.

Dissenting ,Opinion: Shiras, J., Fuller, C.J., McKenna, J.

I am altogether unwilling to attribute to Congress an intention to abandon the protection of Interstate Commerce in
articles of food or drink, whether for personal use or for sale,
where similar articles are treated by a State as lawful subjects
of domestic commerce. If such were the intention of Congress' in the act of August, 1890, I should be compelled to
regard such legislation as invalid. The control and regulation
of foreign and interstate commerce are among the most important powers possessed by the N~ational legislature, ind, as
has often been said by this court, were among the most potent
causes which led to the establishment of the Constitution.
The conceded purpose of prdtecting commerce from hostile
action between the States woald be defeated if Congress could
withdraw from the exercise of its powers in such matters, and
turn them over to the legislatures of the States.
But there is no reason to suppose that Congress intended
any such act of abdication in the present instance. Reasonable meaning and effect can be given to- the act of August 8,
1890, without giving it such a construction as would raise the
serious question of its constitutionality.
Its plain meaning is that, if, in the bona fide exercise of its
police power, the State finds it necessary to declare that all
fermented, distilled or other intoxicating liquor is of a detrimental character, and that its use and consumption are against
the morals, good health and safety of its inhabitants, it may
legislate, on that assumption, -with equal effect as -to such
liquor whether imported or of domestic manufacture. Such
legislation may take the form of total prohibition, and be
valid, as we held in In re Rahrer, 140- U. S. 545, under a
statute of the State of Kansas. The articles prohibited were
thus taken out of the sphere of commerce, whether interstate
or domestic, and no discriminations were thereby mide or attempted adversely to the persons or property of other States.
Or the legislation may seek to regulate the sale of intoxicating liquors, and if the regulations are reasonable, in the fair
exercise of the police, power, applicable alike to articles imported and to those made in the State, their validity may
well be sustained, without infringing upon the Federal control
of Interstate Commerce.

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 1).

463

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, J., Fuller, C.J., McKenna, J.

Thus if the State of South Carolina, instead of prohibiting
the sale of imported liquors in imported packages altogether
and confiscating them to her own use, had seen fit to prbscribe reasonable regulations of the sale - such, for instance,
as forbade its taking place on Sunday, or in the night time,.or
to be drunk on the premises, or to be made to minors, and if
such regulations likewise applied to the sale of domestic liquors
then the case might be deemed to fall within the proper
exercise of the police power.
-Far different is the nature of the provisions of these acts of
South Carolina. They do not pretend to forbid either the
use, manufacture or sale of" intoxicating liquors. They do
not provide a iPeasonable system of inspection, calculated to
protect the public from imposition. They do not seek to subject the sale to reasonable regulations, but do contain provisions which, if carried into effect, would wholly prevent the
makers and owners of wines and liquors made in foreign
countries or in the other States from exercising the right of
free commerce under the Constitution. At the most, it can
only be said that such persons can be permitted to send their
property into South Carolina for sale if the state authorities
think fit to allow them that privilege.
Nor, even if allowed this restricted privilege of importation,
are they permitted to sell their property for what it is worth
in the market, because they can sell only through a county
dispenser, who is compelled to give a bond in the penal sum
of three thousand dollars, conditioned 'that he will not sell
intoxicating liquors at a price other than that fixed by the
state board of control. This provision not merely hampers
the citizens of the other States in their exerhise of the right
of trade and commerce, but deprives the residents of the
State of the right to purchase articles of a commercial character at prices regulated by open competition.
It may be said that such a construction of the act of Con gress would deprive it of actual operation -that the power
and laws of the States would be left just as they were before
its passage. But, not infrequently, courts have said that
there are statutes that are merely declaratory of the law as

OCTOBER TERAI , 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, J., Fuller, C.J., McKenna, J.

it previously existed. And such declaratory statutes are not
without value when they serve to elucidate existing law, or
to remove uncertainty when decisions or prior enactments are
supposed to conflict. The act in question may well be regarded as a legislative attempt to define the boundaries
between Federal and state powers in respect to interstate
commerce in intoxicating liquors; and this court, in the cases
of - re Rah)rer and of Scott v. Donald,and in the recent case
of J lodes v. Iowa, ante, 412, has so treated it. But it cannot,
as I think, be either interpreted or sustained as an effort to
transfer the regulative control in matters of Interstate Commerce from the Nation to the States.
The opinion of the majority, as I read it,fails to recognize
frequent and well considered decisions of this court, and seems
to justify a brief reference to them.
In Be'own. v. JNaryland, 12 Wheat. 419, an act of the State
of Maryland imposing penalties on all importers of foreign
articles or commodities, including wines and spirituous liquors,
'if they should sell the same without having first procured a
license from the state authorities, was held repugnant to the
provision of the Constitution of the United States, which
declares that "no State shall, without consent of Congress,
lay any impost, or duty on imports or exports, except what
may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection
laws," and to that which declares that Congress shall have
power " to regulate commerce with foreign nations, among
the several States, and with the Indian tribes." In the course
of his reasoning Chief Justice Marshall said: "The object of
the Constitution would be as completely defeated by a power
to tax the article in the hands-of the importer the instant it
was landed, as by a power to tax it while entering the port.
There is no difference, in effect, between a power to prohibit
the sale of an article and a power to prohibit its introduction
into the country. The one would be a necessary consequence
of the other. No goods would be imported if none could be
sold."
And again'. "If this power to regulate commerce reaches
the interior of a State, and may be there exercised, it must

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 1).

465

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, J., Fuller, C.J., McKenna, J.

be capable of authorizing the sale of those articles which it
introduces. Commerce is intercourse; one of its most ordinary ingredients is traffic. It is inconceivable that the power
to authorize this traffic, when given in the most comprehensive terms, with the intent that its efficacy should be complete, should cease at the point when its continuance is
indispensable to its value. To what purpose should the power
to allow importation be given, unaccompanied with the power
to authorize a sale of the thing imported? Sale is the object
of importation, and is an essential ingredient of that intercourse, of which importation constitutes a part. It is as
essential an ingredient, as indispensable to the existence of
the entire thing, then, as importation itself. It must be
considered as a component part of the power to regulate
Congress has a right, not only to authorize
commerce.
importation, but to authorize the importer to sell.
The power claimed by the State is, in its nature, in conflict
with that given to Congress; and the greater or less extent
in which it may be exercised does not enter into the inquiry
concerning its existence."
Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446, was a case wherein
was brought into question the validity of a statute of the
State of Michigan, which imposed a tax or duty on persons
who, .not having their principal place of business within the
State, engage in the business of selling liquors, to be shipped
into the State; and it was held that a discriminating tax
imposed by a State, operating to the disadvantage of products
of other States when introduced into the first mentioned
State, is, in effect, a regulation of commerce between the
States, and as such a usurpation of the power conferred by
the Constitution upon Congress. Replying to the contention
on behalf of the statute, that it was passed in the exercise
of the police power of the State, Mr. Justice Bradley said:
"This would be a perfect justification of the act if it did not
discriminate against the citizens and products of other States
in a matter of commerce between the States, and thus usurp
one of the prerogatives of the national legislature. The police
power cannot be set up to control the inhibitions of the FedVOL. CLXX-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, J., Fuller, C.J., AfcKenna, J.

eral Constitution, or the powers of the United States Government created thereby."
In Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District,120 U. S. 489,

it was held that interstate commerce cannot be taxed at all
by a State, even though the same amount of tax should be
laid on domestic commerce, or that which is carried on solely
within the State.
A law of the State of Iowa forbidding any common carrier
from bringing within that State, for any person or corporation,
any intoxicating liquors from any other State or Territory,
without a permit from the state authorities, was held void in
the case of Bowman v. Chicago & 2Yorthwestern Pailway,125
U. S.465, and the court, through Mr. Justice Matthews, said:
"Here is the limit between the sovereign power of the State
and the Federal power. That is to say, that which does not
belong to commerce is within the jurisdiction of the police
power of the State, and that which does belong to commerce
is within the jurisdiction of the United States.

.

.

.

The

same process of legislation and reasoning adopted by the
State and its courts would bring within the police power any
article of consumption that a State, might wish to exclude,
whether to that which was drank or to food and clothing."
By an act passed in' 1871, the legislative assembly of the
District of Columbia subjected persons selling imported goods
without a license to penalties, and this act was held invalid in
Stoutenburg v. Hennicc, 129 U. S.141; and in disposing of
the contention that Congress must be regarded as having
authorized or adopted this legislation, Mr. Chief Justice
Fuller said: "In our judgment Congress, for the reasons
given, could not have delegated the power to enact the third
clause of the twenty-first section of the act of assembly, construed to include business agents such as I]ennick; and there
is nothing in this record to justify the assumption that it endeavored to do so, for the powers granted to the District were
municipal merely, and although by several acts Congress repealed or modified parts of this particular by-law, these parts
were separably operative and such as were within the scope
of municipal action, so that this Congressional legislation can-

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 1).

467

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, J., Fuller, C.J., McKenna, J.
not be resorted to as ratifying the objectionable clause, irrespective of the inability to ratify that which could not have
been originally authorized."
In Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313, this court held invalid, a statute of the State of Minnesota, which made it a
matter of fine or imprisonment for any one to sell any fresh
beef, mutton, lamb or pork-which had not been inspected in
a manner prescribed in the act. Referring to the contention,
in behalf of the State, that there was no discrimination
against the products and business of other States for the
reason that the statute requiring an inspection of animals on
the hoof, as a condition for the privilege of selling in the
State, was applicable alike to all owners of such animals,
whether citizens of Minnesota or citizens of other States,
this court, through Mr. Justice Harlan, said: "To this we
answer that a statute may, upon its face, apply equally to
the people of all the States, and yet be a regulation of Interstate Commerce which a State may not establish. A burden
imposed by a State upon Interstate Commerce is not to be sustained simply because the statute imposing it applies alike to
the people of all the States, including the people of the State
enacting such statute. The people of Minnesota have as much
right to protection against the enactments of that State, interfering with the freedom of commerce among the States, as
have the people of other States. Although this statute is not
avowedly, or in terms, directed against the bringing into
Minnesota of the products of other States, its necessary effect
is to burden or affect commerce with other States, as involved
in the transportation into that State, for the .purposes of sale
there, of all fresh beef, veal, mutton or pork, however free
from disease may have been the animals from which it was
taken."
We did not find it necessary in Scott v. Donald to pass upon
the validity of a scheme whereby a State should seek. to establish itself as a trader in articles of commerce, and to punish
as criminals all persons who should attempt to deal in such
articles. Nor has the court seen fit to discuss that question
in the present case. It may be that, if confined to articles of

OCTOBER TER-I, 1897.
Syllabus.

state production, such a scheme might not be open to objections on Federal grounds. But where a State proposes to
create a monopoly in articles which its own legislation recognizes as proper subjects of manufacture, sale and use, and
where those articles are a part of international and Interstate
Commerce, it is, I submit, too plain to call for argument that
such an attempt does not comport with that freedom of trade
and commerce, to preserve which is one of the most important
purposes, of our Federal system.
If these views are sound, then the acts of South Carolina in
question, in so far as they seek to prevent citizens of that
State from importing for their own use wines and liquors, and
to arbitrarily forbid, and not by reasonable regulations, control sales of such articles when imported, are void as an unconstitutional interference with Interstate Commerce.
I think the decree of the Circuit Court should be affirmed.
I am authorized to state that the CIIEF JUSTWCE and Mi.
concur in the views of this opinion.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT'COURT OF THE

UNITED

ST&TES

(No. 2).
FOR THE

DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 515. Argued March 9, 10, 1698. - Defided May 9, 1898.

In determining from the face of a pleading whether the amount really In
dispute is sufficient to confer jurisdiction upon a court of the United
States, it is settled that if from the nature of the case as stated in the
pleadings there could not legally be a judgment for an amount necessary
to the jurisdiction, jurisdiction cannot attach even though the damages
be laid in the declaration at a larger sum.
The courts of South Carolina having held that in an action of trover consequential damages are not recoverable, and the damage claimed by the
plaintiff below, in this case, omitting the consequential damages, being
less than the sum necessary to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction of it,
it follows that, on the face of the complaint, that court was withoit
jurisdiction over the action.

