OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant has been established, and there must be a judgment against him, unless he conclusively shows that no loss
had been sustained by the plaintiffs.

KIPLEY v. ILLINOIS.
KIPLEY v. ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

Nos. 586, 601. Submitted March 14,1S98. -Decided April18, 198.

When the jurisdiction of this court is invoked for the protection, against
the final judgment of the highest court of a State, of some title, right,
privilege or immunity secured by the Constitution or laws of the United

States, it must appear expressly or by necessary intendmeut, from the
record, that such right, title, privilege or immunity was specially "set
up or claimed" under such Constitution or laws; as the jurisdiction of

this court cannot arise in such case from inference, but only from averments so distinct and positive as to place it beyond question thut the
party bringing the case up intended to assert a Federal right.
MIfOTION

to dismiss.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward C. Akin, attorney general of the State of
Illinois, .Mr.
George I. Smith, Mr. Frank P. Blair and AMr.
MAlurry Nelson, J'., for the motion.
Mir. CharlesS. Thornton opposing.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

daelivered the opinion of the court.

The attorney general of Illinois filed in the Supreme Court
of Illinois, at its June term 1897, an original petition against
Joseph Kipley, superintendent of police of the city of Chicago,
and Adolph Kraus, Dudley Winston and Hempstead Washburne, commissioners appointed under the act of the legislature of Illinois in force on and after lAarch 20, 1895, entitled
"An act to regulate the civil service of cities."

KIPLEY v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

The application for leave to file the petition was accompanied by a suggestion upon the part of the attorney general
that the case involved an interpretation of the above act.
The prayer of the petition was that a writ of mandamus
issue commanding Kipley, as superintendent of police of
Chicago,. to notify the civil service commissioners of all
vacancies existing in the positions of assistant superintendent of police, inspectors of police and captains of police
in the city of Chicago, and commanding the civil service
commissioners -to submit to Kipley, as superintendent of
police, the names of not more than three applicants for promotion for each vacancy from the grade next below that in
which such vacancy or vacancies exist, and that the petitioner
have such other or further relief as the nature of the case
required.
Kipley filed a separate answer, in which he insisted that he
had acted, in all respects, in conformity with law. He also
averred that although the act regulating the civil service of
cities was passed and approved substantially as stated in the
petition, and was afterwards submitted to a vote of the electors
of Chicago and adopted by a large majority of votes, it was
"unconstitutional and void," in that it purported to confer
judicial powers and authority to make and enforce judgments
and decisions of a nonjudicial body, described and set forth
in the act as the civil service commission.
Subsequently, June 28, 1897, the city council of Chicago
passed an ordinance designating certain public officers who
should be selected by the mayor with the concurrence of the
council. Kipley, July 10, 1897, filed a plea, setting forth this
ordinance, and alleging, in relation to the appointment by.
the civil service commissioners of certain subordinate police
officers of the city, that they "have been, if they ever were
within the same, wholly taken away from and removed out of
the control, jurisdiction and power of the said civil service
commissioners, so that such matters are now expressly excepted by its very terms from the force and effect of said
Civil Service Act."
On the 7th day of October, 1897, Kipley asked leave of the

OCTOBER TERINI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

court to withdraw his plea, and also to amend his answer so
as to embody, therein averments to the effect that the relator
was not entitled to a writ of mandamus and that the court
had no jurisdiction or power to grant the same, because the
said Civil Service Act of March 20, 1895, was null and void
and -contrary to the constitution of the State of Illinois and
the Constitution of the United States in that "1. It abridges the privileges and immunities of the citizens of the United States, because it operates to exclude from
the classified service of such city as therein specified all such
citizens as do not apply for office or for place of employment.
"2. The said act of March 20, 1895, deprives a duly elected
and qualified officer of the right to select his subordinates and
provide the requisite agencies for performing his official duties,
thus abridging the rights, privileges and immunities belonging
and guaranteed by the said constitutions, respectively, to every
citizen thereof.
"3. The said act of March 20, 1895, provides for the invasion of the right of the people to be secure in their persons,
houses, papers and effects against unreasonable searches and
seizures.
"4. The said act of March 20, 1895, purports to prescribe
for the criminal trial of public officers for nonfeasance, for
misfeasance, for malfeasance in office, and for the infliction
of penalties therefor, of deprivation of office, of fine, of imprisonment, and incapacity to hold offloe thereafter by nonjudicial body, and in such manner that the accused shall not
enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial by an impartial
jury of the State or district wherein the crime shall have been
committed; and without informing the accused of the nature
and cause of the accusation; and without confronting the
accused with the witnesses against him; and without permitting the accused to have compulsory process for obtaining
witnesses in his favor, and to have the assistance of counsel
for the defence.
"5. That the said act denies to the citizens the freedom of
political action, making it highly penal for the citizen to take
part in party politics.

KIPLEY v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

"6. That said act of March 20, 1895, provides for the creation and maintenance of an office-holding class, at the expense
of the people who are excluded therefrom by the operation of
the said act.
"7. And generally said act of March 20, 1895, is directly
in contravention of the right of that clause of the United
States Constitution which prescribes that ' all persons born
or naturalized in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof are citizens of the United States and of the
State wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce
any law which shall abridge the privileges and immunities of
citizens of the United.States, nor shall any State deprive any
person of life, liberty or property without due process of law,
nor deny to any person the equal protection of the laws.'
"8. And further, the said act of March 20, 1895, generally
denominated the Civil Service Act, is absolutely null and void
because the same purports to require the civil officers of the
city of Chicago to uuidergo tests as to qualification for office
and public employment in addition to the requirement of seotion 25 of article 5 of said constitution of the State of Illinois,
and because it provides for a political test for the said commissioners respectively therein named, and because further the
same is in contravention of section 22 of article 4 of said
constitution as well as many other provisions of said state
constitution."
Kipley also asked leave, to file "a supplemental answer,"
averring that since the filing of his original answer the city
council had passed the above ordinance of June 28, 1897.
The motions for leave to withdraw the plea, to amend the
answer and to file a supplemental answer were severally
denied.
On a subsequent day of the term Kipley entered a motion
to discharge the rule requiring the respondents to answer the
petition, and to quash all the proceedings that had been taken,
assigning as reason therefor that the Civil Service Act of
March 20, 1895, was contrary to the constitution of Illinois
and the Constitution of the United States upon certain specified grounds. They were the same as those specified in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

above motion for leave to amend the answer. That motion
was also denied.
On the 22d day of December, 1897, the Supreme Court of
Illinois rendered its final judgment, granting the relief asked
in the petition for mandamus.
The final order of the court was that a writ of mandamus
issue, commanding Kipley, superintendent of police of Chicago, to notify the civil service commissioners of all vacancies existing in the positions of assistant superintendent of
police, inspectors of police and captains of police in that
city, and the civil service commissioners to submit to him,
as such superintendent of police, the names of not more than
three applicants for promotion for each vacancy from the next
grade below that in which such vacancy or vacancies existed.
Kipley, having given previous notice thereof, filed a petition
for rehearing on the 8th day of January, 1898, but -before
that petition was disposed of he sued out a writ of error to
this court. That constitutes case No. 586. The rehearing
having been denied, he sued out another writ of error, and
that constitutes case No. 601. The citation in each case was
signed by the Chief Justice of the state court. The cases on
motion were consolidated in this court, and are before us on
a motion to dismiss each writ of error for want of jurisdiction.
We are of opinion that this court is without jurisdiction to
review the final judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois in
these cases. The answer makes no reference whatever to the
Constitution or laws of the United States. It is true that it
avers that the Illinois Civil Service Act was "unconstitutional
and void." But when the jurisdiction of this court is invoked
for the plotection, against the final judgment of the highest
court of a State, of some title, right, pfivilege or immunity
secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States, it
must appear expressly or by necessary intendment, from the
record, that such right, title, privilege or immunity was "specially set up or claimed" under such Constitution or laws.
Rev. Stat. 709. Our jurisdiction cannot arise in such case
from inference, but only from averments so distinct and positive as to place it beyond question that the party bringing

KIPLEY v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

the case up intended to assert a Federal right. Oxley Stave
Co. v. Butler County, 166 U. S. 648; Levy v. Superior Court
of San Francisco,167 U. S. 175, 177. The averment in the
answer, that the statute of Illinois was unconstitutional and
void, must be taken as intended to apply to the constitution
of that State, and not to the Constitution of the United States.
In .Millerv. Cornwall Railroad,168 U. S. 131, 134, this court,
speaking by the Chief Justice, said: "We have no jurisdiction
on a writ of error to a state court to declare a state law void
on account of its collision with a state constitution; and it
was long ago held that where it was objected in the state
courts that an act of the State was ' unconstitutional and void,'
the objection was properly construed in those courts, as raising the question whether the state legislature had the power,
under the state constitution, to pass the act, and not as having reference to any repugnance to the Constitution of the
United States. Porter v. Foley, 24 How. 415."
It is manifest that, when the answer was drawn, neither
the defendant Kipley nor the learned counsel representing
him intended to raise any question of a Federal nature. We
cannot suppose that it occurred to either of them at that time
that the Civil Service Act of Illinois was repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States.
Nor was any question of a Federal character raised or intended to be raised by the plea which brought before the court
the city ordinance of June 28, 1897.
It is, however, said that the motion for leave to amend the
answer did specially set up and claim that the Illinois Civil
Service Act violated certain rights, privileges and immunities
belonging to the plaintiff in error under the Constitution of the
United States. But as the Supreme Court of Illinois did not
allow the proposed amendment of the answer the questions
suggested by the amendment did not arise for determination.
To the action of the court in disallowing the amendment, no
exception wa§ taken. The grounds upon which these motions
were denied appear from the opinion of the court as follows:
*"By this motion respondent-Kipley asks, first, for leave to
withdraw his plea; second, to file an amended answer;, and

OCTOBER TERMK, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

third, to file a supplemental answer. Nothing more is before
us than the bare motion. No showing has been made nor
reasons filed in support of the motion, and we are unable to
say whether the motion should be allowed or not, and it must
therefore be overruled." People v. Eipley, 167 Illinois, 638.
This action of the state court does not raise a Federal question whiph this court can examine. The suggestion that the
Federal questions which would have been raised, if the answer
had been amended as proposed, should be considered upon
their merits precisely as they might have been if the motion
to amend had been allowed, cannot be entertained for a
moment. It was in the discretion of the court to deny the
motion to amend, when no reasons were assigned for its
allowance, and to hold the parties to the issues made by the
original petition and answer; and there is nothing in the
record justifying the conclusion that its discretion, in that
regard, was exercised with the intent or so as to deprive the
defendant either of any right or immunity to which he was
entitled under the Constitution or laws of the United States,
or of the privilege of setting up or claiming in due time and
in proper form any such right or immunity.
It may be observed that the opinion of the state court
delivered upon final hearing contains nothing to show that
any Federal question was considered *or determined. The
general subject to which the attention of the court was directed is shown by the following extract from its opinion
delivered by Mr. Justice Magruder: "The evils sought to be
remedied by legislation of this character are well known and
well understood. These evils are such as grow out of what is
generally called the 'spoils system.' . . . The foundation
principles of the act are that appointments to municipal offices
or employments must be made according to merit and fitness,
to be ascertained by competitive examinations, free to all; and
that promotions from lower to higher grades in the public
service must be made upon the basis of merit." People v.
JIipley, 171 Illinois, 60. The validity of -the enactment in
question was considered by that court with reference only to
the state constitution.

HAWKER v. NEW YORK.
Statement of the Case.

In respect of the motion to discharge the rule and all proceedings against the respondents it need only be said that- it
could have been denied upon the ground that the questions
sought to be raised by it might more properly arise upon
demurrer, plea or answer. Its denial did not have the effect
to bring any Federal question into the record to be determined. It may also be observed that no exception was taken
to the action of the state court in relation to this motion.
This court having no jurisdiction to reexainine the final
judgments of the state court in these cases, the motion to dismiss the writs of error is sustained.
Dismissed.
MR.JUSTICE WHITE dissented.

HAWKER v. NEW YORK.
ERROR TO TIE COURT OF GENERAL SESSIONS OF THE PEACE FOR
THE CITY AND COUNTY OF NEW YORK, STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 415.

Argued March 9, 1898.-

Decided April 18, 1898.

The provision in the act of the legislature of New York of May 9, 1893,
c. 661, relating to the public health, as amended by the act of April
25, 1895, c. 398, that "any person who, . . . after conviction of a
felony, shall attempt to practise medicine, or shall so practise,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than two hundred and fifty dollars, or imprisonment for six months for the first offence, and on conviction of any
subsequent offence, by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars, or
imprisonment for not less than one year, or by both fine and imprisonment," does not conflict with Article I, section 10, of the Constitution
of the United States which provides that " No State shall . . . pass
any Bill of Attainder, ex post facto Law or law impairing the Obligation
of Contracts," when applied to a person who had been convicted.of a
felony prior to its enactment.

IN 1878 the plaintiff in error, defendant below, was tried

and convicted in the Court of Sessions of-Kings Courity, New
York, of the crime of -abortion, and sentenced to imprison-

