THOMPSON v. UTAH.
Syllabus.

tion. The Land Department, at first suspending action, finally
directed him to close up the matter, to approve the field notes,
survey and plat, and notified the parties through him that
such field notes, survey and plat, together with the act of
Congress, should constitute the evidence of title. All was
done as directed. Congress made no provision for a patent
and the Land Department refused to issue one. All having
been done that was prescribed by the statute, the title passed.
The Land Department has repeatedly ruled that the action
then taken was a finality. It has noted on all maps and in its
reports that this tract had been segregated from the public
domain and become private property. It made report of this
to Congress, and that body has never questioned the validity
of its action. The grantees entered into actual possession and
fenced the entire tract. They have paid the taxes levied by
the State upon it as private property,.amounting to at least
$66,000. While the approval entered upon the plat by the
surveyor general under the direction of the Land Department
was in terms "subject to the conditions and. provisions~of section 6 of the act of Congress, approved June 21, 1860," such
limitation was beyond the power of executive officers to
impose.
We are of opinion that at this late day the title of the
locators and their grantees is not subject to challenge, and
that it is a full, absolute and unconditional title.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will, therefore, be reversed and the case remandedfor a new trial.

THOMPSON v. UTAH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No.553.

Argued March 4, 7, 1898.-Decided April 25, 1898.

The provision in the constitution of the State of Utah, providing for the
trial of criminal cases, not capital, in courts of general jurisdiction by a
jury composed of eight persons, is ex post -factoin its application to felonies committed before the Territory became a State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
,1r.J. W. NV. Wldtecotton for plaintiff in error.
Mr. L. T. Xfichener for defendant in error. 2fr. A. C.
Bishop, Mr. Benner X. Smi t and -Mr. ITT
11. Dudley were
on his brief.
MR. JusTice. HARL

delivered the opinion of the court.

By an indictment returned in the District Court of the Second Judicial District of the Territory of Utah, at its May
term, 1895 - that. being a court of general jurisdiction - the
plaintiff in error and one Jack Moore were charged with the
crime of grand larceny alleged to have been committed March
2, 1895, in Wayne County of that Territory, by unlawfully
and feloniously stealing, taking and driving away one calf, the
property of Heber Wilson.
The case was first tried when Utah was a Territory, and by
a jury composed of twvelve persons. Both of the defenda nts
were found guilty as charged, and were recommended to the
mercy of the court. A new trial having been granted, the
case was removed for trial to another county. But it was not
again tried until after the admission of Utah into the Union
as a State.
At the second trial the defendant was found guilty. He
moved for a new trial upon the ground among others that the
jury that tried him was composed of only eight jurors; whereas
by the law in force at the time of the commission of the alleged
offence a lawful jury in his case could not be composed of less
than t~velve jurors. The application for a new trial having
been overruled, and the accused having been called for sentence, he renewed his objection to the composition of the jury,
and moved by counsel that the verdict be set aside and another
trial ordered.
This objection was overruled, the accused duly excepting to
the action of the court. He was then sentenced to the state
prison for the term of three years. The judgment of conviction was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Utah, the court

THOMPSON v. UTAH.
Opinion of the Court.

holding that the trial- of the accused by a jury composed of
eight persons was consistent Nvith the Constitution of the
United States.
By the statutes of the Territory of Utah in force at the
time of the commission of the alleged offence it was provided
that a trial jury in a District Court should consist of twelve,
and in a justice's court of six, persons, unless the parties to the
action or proceeding, in other than criminal cases, agreed upon
a less number; that a felony was a crime punishable with
death or by imprisonment in the penitentiary, every other
crime being a misdemeanor; that the stealing of a calf was
grand larceny and punishable by confinement in the penitentiary for not less than one nor more than ten years; that no person should be convicted of a public offence unless by the verdict
of a jury, accepted and recorded by the court, or upon a plea
of guilty, or upon judgment against him upon a demurrer, or
upon the judgment of a court, a jury having been waived in a
criminal action not amounting to a felony; and that issues of
fact should be tried by jury, unless a trial in that mode was
waived in criminal cases not amounting to a felony by the
consent of both parties expressed in open court and entered
in its minutes. 2 Compiled Laws, Utah, 1888, §§ 3065, 4380,
4643, 4644, 4790, 4997.
By the constitution of the State of Utah it is provided:
"In capital cases the right of trial by jury shall remain inviolate. In courts of general jurisdiction, except in capital cases,
a jury shall consist of eight jurors. In courts of inferior jurisdiction a jury shall consist of four jurors. In criminal cases
the verdict shall be unanimous." Art. I, Sec. 10. Also: "All
criminal prosecutioris and penal actions which may have arisen
or which may arise before the change from a territorial to a
state government, and which shall then be pending, shall be
prosecuted to judgment and execution in the name of the
State, and in the court having jurisdiction thereof. All
offeaces committed against the laws of the Territory of Utah,
before the change from a territorial to a state government, and
which shall not have been prosecuted before such change, may
be prosecuted in the name and by the authority of the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

of Utah, with like effect, as though such change had not taken
place, and all penalties incurred shall remain the same, as if
this constitution had not been adopted." Art. XXIV, Sec. 6.
As the offence of which the plaintiff in error was convicted
was a felony , and as by the law in force when the crime was
committed he could not have been tried by a jury of a less
number than twelve jurors, the .question is presented whether
the provision in the constitution of Utah, providing for a jury
of eight persons in courts of general jurisdiction, except in
capital cases, can be made applicable to a felony committed
within the limits of the State while it was a Territory, without
bringing that provision into conflict with the clause of the
Constitution of the United States prohibiting the passage by
any State of an expostfacto law.
The Constitution of the United States provides: "The trial
of all -crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by
jury; and such trial shall be held in the State where the said
crimes shall have been committed, but when not committed
within any State, the trial shall be at such place or places as
the Congress may by law have directed." Art. III, Sec. 2.
And by the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution it is declared: "In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy
the right to a speedy and-public trial, by an impartial jury of
the State and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained
by law, and to be informed of the nature and cause of the
accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses against him;
to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his
favor, and to have the assistance of'counsel for his defence."
Thae the provisions of the Constitution of the United States
relating to the right of trial by jury in suits at common law
apply to the Territories of the United States is no longer
an open question. -Webster v. Reid, 11 fow. 437, 460;
American Publishing Co. v. Fisher, 166 U. S. 464, 468;
Springville v. Thomas, 166 U. S. 707. In the last named
case it was claimed that the territorial legislature of Utah
was empowered by the organic act of the Territory of September-9, 1850, 9 Stat. 453, c. 51, § 6, to provide that una-

THOMPSON v. UTAH.
Opinion of the Court.

nimity of action on the part of jurors in civil cases was not
necessary to a valid verdict. This court said: "In our opinion
the Seventh Amendment secured unanimity in finding a verdict as an essential feature of trial by jury in common law
cases, and the act of Congress could not impart the power to
change the constitutional rule, and could not be treated as
attempting to do so."
It is equally beyond question that the provisions of the
National Constitution relating to trials by jury for crimes and
to criminal prosecutions apply to the Territories of the United
States.
The judgment of this court in Reynolds v. United States,
98 U. S. 145, 154, which was a criminal prosecution in the
Territory of Utah, assumed that the Sixth Amendment applied to criminal prosecutions in that territory.
In Callan v. Wilson, 127 U. S. 540, 549, 551, which was a
criminal prosecution by information in the Police Court of the
District of Columbia, the accused claimed that the right of
trial by jury was secured to him by the Third Article of the
Constitution as well as by the Fifth and Sixth Amendments.
The contention of the Government was that the Constitution
did not secure the right of trial by jury to the people of the
District of Columbia; that the original provision, that when
a crime was not committed within any State "the trial shall
be at such place or places as the Congress may by law have
directed," had, probably, reference only to offences committed
on the high seas; that, in adopting the Sixth Amendment, the
people of the States were solicitous about trial by jury in the
States and nowhere else, leaving it entirely to Congress to
declare in what way persons should be tried who might be
accused of crime on the high seas and in the District of Columbia and in places to be thereafter ceded for the purposes respectively of a seat of Government, forts, magazines, arsenals
and dockyards; and, consequently, that that Amendment
should be deemed to have superseded so much of the Third
Article of the Constitution as related to the trial of crimes by
jury. That contention was overruled, this court saying: "As
the guarantee of a trial by jury, in the Third Article, implied

OCTOBER TERAM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

a trial in that mode and according to the settled rules of the
common law, the enumeration, in the Sixth Amendment, of
the rights of the accused in criminal prosecutions, is to be
taken as a declaration of what those rules were, and is to be
referred to the anxiety of the people of the States to have in
the supreme law of the land, and so far as the agencies of the
General Government were concerned, a full and distinct
recog-nition of those rules, as involving the fundamental rights
of life, liberty and property. This recognition was demanded
and secured for the benefit of all the people of the United
States, as well those permanently or temporarily residing in
the District of Columbia, as those residing or being in the several States. There is nothing in the history of the Constitution
or of the original amendments to justify the assertion that the
people of this District may be lawfully deprived 'of the benefit of any of the constitutional guarantees of life, liberty and
property - especially of the privilege of trial by jur v in criminal cases." "We cannot think," the court further said,
"that the people of this District have, in that regard, less
rights than those accorded to the people of the Territories of
the United States."
In -Mormon Church v. United Steates, 136 U. S. 1, 44, one of
the questions considered was the extent of the authority which
the United States might exercise over the Territories and their
inhabitants. In the opinion of Mr. Justice Bradley reference
was made to previous decisions of this court, in one of which,
2Tational Bank v. County of Yankton, 101 U. S. 129, 133,
it was said that Congress, in virtue of the sovereignty of
the United States, could not only abrogate the laws of the
territo~ial legislatures, but may itself legislate directly for the
local government; that it could make a void act of the Territorial legislature valid, and a valid act void ; that it had full
and complete legislative authority over the people of the territories and all the departments of the territorial govern ments;
that it "may do for the Territories what the people, under the
Constitution of the United States, may do for the States."
Reference was also made to lturphy v. Ramsey, 114 U. S. 15,
44, in which it was said: "The people of the United States,

THOMPSON v. UTAH.
Opinion of the Court.

as sovereign owners of the national Territories, have supreme
power over them and their inhabitants. In the exercise of
this sovereign dominion, they are represented by the Government of the United States, to whom all the powers of governnient over that subject have been delegated, subject only to
such restrictions as are expressed in the Constitution, or are
necessarily implied in its terms." The opinion of the court in
-J' on Church v. United States then proceeded: "Doubtless
C,,gress, in lepislating for the Territories, would be subject
to those fundamental limitations in favor of personal rights
which are formulated in the Constitution and its amendments;
but these limitations would exist rather by inference and the
general spirit of the Constitution from which Congress derives
all its powers, than by any express and direct application of
its provisions. The supreme power of Congress over the
Territories and over the acts of the territorial legislatures established therein, is generally expressly reserved in the organic
acts establishing governments in said Territories. This is true
of the Territory of Utah. In the sixth section of the act
establishing a territorial government in Utah, approved September 9, 1850, it is declared ' that the legislative powers of
said Territory shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation, consistent with the Constitution of the United States
and the provisions of this act. . . . All the laws passed by
the legislative assembly and governor shall be submitted to
the Congress of the United States, and if disapproved shall be
null and of no effect.' 9 Stat. 54."
Assuming then that the provisions of the Constitution relating to trials for crimes and to criminal prosecutions apply
to the Territories of the United States, the next inquiry is
whether the jury referred to in the original Constitution and
in the Sixth Amendment is a jury constituted, as ;itwas at
2
common law, of twelve persons, neither more nor less.
Hale's P. C. 161; 1 Chitty's Cr. Law, 505. This question must
be answered in the affirmative. When Magna Charta declared
that no freeman should be deprived of life, etc., "but by the
judgment of his peers or by the law of the land," it referred
to a trial by twelve jurors. Those who emigrated to this

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

country from England brought with them this great privilege
"as their birthright and inheritance, as a part of that
adiirable common law which had fenced around and interposed
barriers on every side against the approaches of arbitrary
power." 2 Story's Const. § 1779. In Bacon's Abridgment,
Title Juries, it is said: "The trialperpais,or by a jury of one's
country, is justly esteemed one of the principal excellencies of
our Constitution; for what greater security can any person
have in his life, liberty or estate, than to be suife of not being
divested of, or injured in any of these, without the sense and
verdict of twelve honest and impartial men of his neighbor"
hood? And hence we find the common law herein confirmed
by Magna Charta." So, in 1 Hale's P. C. 33: "The law of
England hath afforded the best method of trial, that is possible, of this and all other matters of fact, namely, by a jury
of twelve men all concurring in the same judgment, by the
testimony of witnesses viva voce in the presence of the judge
and jury, and by the inspection and direction of the judge."
It must consequently be-taken that the word "jury" and the
words "trial by jury" were placed in the Constitution of the
United States with reference to the meaning affixed to them
in -the law as it was in this country and in England at the
time of the adoption of that instrument; and that when
Thompson committed the offence of grand larceny in the Territory of Utah -which
was under the complete jurisdiction
of the United States for all purposes of government and legislation - the supreme law of the land required that he should
be tried by a jury composed of not less than twelve persons.
And such was the requirement of the statutes of Utah while
it was Territory.
Was it then competent for the State of Utah, upon its admission into the Union, to do in respect of Thompson's crime
what the United States could not have done while Utah was
a Territory, namely, to provide for his trial by a jury of eight
persons ?
We are of opinion that the State did not acquire upon its
admission into the Ulnion the power to provide, in respect of
felonies committed within its limits while it was a Territory,
.

THOMPSON v. UTAH.
Opinion of the Court.

that they should be tried otherwise than by a jury such as is
provided by the Constitution of the United States. When
Thompson's crime was committed, it was his constitutional
right to demand that his liberty should not be taken from
him except by the joint action of the court and the unanimous
verdict of a jury of twelve persons. To hold that a State
could deprive him of his liberty by the concurrent action of a
court and eight jurors, would recognize the power of the State
not only to do what the United States in respect of Thompson's crime could not, at any time, have done by legislation,
but to take from the accused a substantial right belonging to
him when the offence was committed.
It is not necessary to review the numerous cases in which
the courts have deterimined whether particular statutes come
within the constitutional prohibition of exyostfacto laws. It
is sufficient now to say that a statute belongs to that class
which by its necessary operation and "in its relation to the
offence, or its consequences, alters the situation of the accused
Hall, Wash. C. C.
United States v .
to his disadvantage.'
366; .K.ing v. .issouri, 107 U. S. 221, 228; .Medley, Petitioner, 134 U. S. 160, 171. Of course, a statute is not of that
class unless it materially impairs the right of the accused to
have the question of his guilt determined according to the
law as it was when the offence was committed. And, therefore, it is well settled that the accused is not entitled of right
to be tried in the exact mode, in all respects, that may be prescribed for the trial of criminal cases at the time of the commission of the offence charged against him., Cooley in his
Treatise on Constitutional Limitations, after referring to some
of the adjudged cases relating to ex'yost facto laws, says:
"But so far as mere modes of procedure are concerned, a
party has no more right, in a criminal than in a civil- action,
to insist that his case shall be disposed of under the law in
force when the, act to be investigated is-charged to have taken
place. Remedies must always be under the, control of the
legislature, and it would create endless confusion in legal proceedings if every case was to be conducted only in accordance
with the rules of practice, and heard ol ly by the courts in ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

istence when its facts arose. The legislature may abolish
courts and create new ones, and it may prescribe altogether
'different modes of procedure in its discretion, though it cannot lawfully, we think, in so doing, dispense with any of those
substantial protections with which the existing law surrounds
the person accused of crime."
c. 9, 6th. ed. p. 326. And
this view was substantially approved by this court in Ifriny v.
.MissourTi,above cited. So, in i opt v. Utah, 110 [. S. 574,
590, it was said that no one had a vested right in mere modes
of procedure, and that it was for the State, upon grounds of
public p6licy, to regulate procedure at its pleasure. This
court, in Duncan v. jfissouri, 152 U. S. 377, 382, said that
statutes Pegulating procedure, if they leave untouched all the
substantial protections with which existing law surrounds the
person accused of crime, are not within the constitutional
inhibition of ex ostfacto laws. But it was held in illot v.
Utah, above cited, that a statute that takes from the accused
a substantial right given to him by the law in force at the
time to which his guilt relates would be ex povtfitwo in
its nature and operation, and that legislation of that kind cannot be sustained simply because, in a general sense, it mmiy be
said to regulate procedure. The difliculty is not so much as
to the soundness of the general rule that an accused has no
vested right in patrticular modes of procedure, as in determining whether particular statutes by their operation take
from an accused any right that was regarded, at the time of
the adoption of the Constitution, as vital for the protection of
life and liberty, and whichl he enjoyed at the time of the coinmission of the offence charged against him.
Now, Thompson's crime, when committed, wvas punishable
by the Territory of Utah proceeding in all its legislation under
the sanction of and in subordination to the authority of tie
United States. The court below substituted, as a basis of
judgment and sentence to imprisonment in the penitentiar'.,
the unanimous verdict of eight jurors in place of a unnnimnous
verdict of twelve. It cannot therefore be said that the constituion of Utah, when applied to Tiomi)son's case, did not
deprive him of a shbstantial right involved in his liberty, and

THOMPSON v. UTAH.
Opinion of the Court.

did not materially alter the situation to his disadvantage. If,
in respect to felonies committed in Utah while it was a Territory, it was competent for the State to prescribe a jury of
eight persons, it could just as well have prescribed a jury of
four or two, and, perhaps, have dispensed altogether with a
jury, and provided for a trial before a single judge.
The Supreme Court of Utah held that this case came within
the principles announced by it in State v. Bates, 14 Utah, 293,
301. In the latter case no reference was made to the ex_post
facto clause of the Constitution of the United States. But it
was held that the requirement of eight jurors in courts of
general jurisdiction, except in capital cases, was not in conflict
with the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States- the court saying that "if a jury of eight men is as
likely to ascertain the truth as twelve, that number secures
the end," and that "there can be no magic in the number
twelve, though hallowed by time"' But the wise men who
framed the Constitution of the United States and the people
who approved it were of opinion that life and liberty, when
involved in criminal prosecutions, would not be adequately
secured except through the unanimous verdict of twelve
jurors. It was not for the State, in respect of a crime committed within its limits while it was a Territory, to dispense
with that guarantee simply because its people had reached
the conclusion that the truth could be as well ascertained, and
the liberty of an accused be as well guarded, by eight as by
twelve jurors in a criminal case.
It is said that the accused did not object, until after verdict,
to a trial jury composed of eight persons, and therefore he
should not be heard to say that his trial by such a jury was
in violation of his constitutional rights. It is sufficient to say
that it was not in the power of one accused of felony, by
consent expressly given or by his silence, to authorize a jury
of only eight persons to pass upon the question ,of his guilt.
The law in force, when this crime was committed, did not
permit any tribunal to deprive him of his liberty, except one
constituted of a court and a jury of twelve persons. In the
case of Hopt v. Utah, above cited, the question arose whether
VOL. cr.xx-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the right of an accused, charged with felony, to be present
before triers of challenges to jurors was waived by his failure
to object to their retirement from the court room, or to their
trial of the several challenges in his absence. The court said:
"We are of opinion that it was not within the power of the
accused or his counsel to dispense with the statutory requirement as to his personal presence at the trial. The argument
to the contrary necessarily proceeds upon the ground that he
alone is concerned as to the mode by which he may be deprived of his life or liberty, and that the chief object of the
prosecution is to punish him for the- crime charged. But this
is a mistaken view as well of the relations which the accused
holds to ihe public as of the end of human punishment. The
natural life, says Blackstone, cannot legally be disposeq of or
destroyed by any individual, neither by the person himself,
nor by any other of his fellow creatures, merely upon their
own authority. 1 Bl-Com. 133. The public has an interest
in his life and liberty. Neither can be lawfully taken except
in the mode prescribed .y law. That which the law makes
essential in proceedings involving the deprivation of life or
liberty cannot be dispensed with or affected by the consent of
the accused, miuch less by his mere failure, when on trial and
in custody, to object to unauthorized methods. The great
end of punishment is not the expiation or atonement of the
offence committed, but the prevention of future offences of
the same kind. 4 Bl. Com. 11. Such being the relation
which the citizen holds to the public, and the object of punishment for public wrongs, the legislature -has deemed it essential
to the protection of one whose life or liberty is involved in a
pr6secution for felony, that he shall be personally present at
the trial; that is, at every stage of the trial when his substantial rights may be affected by the proceedings against him.
If he be deprived of his life or liberty without being so present,
such deprivation "would be without that due process of law
required by the Constitution."
If one under trial for a felony the punishment of which is
confinement in a penitentiary could not legally consent that
the'trial proceed in his absence, still less could he assent to be

V. & A. COAL CO. v. CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO.

355

Syllabus.

deprived of his liberty by a tribunal not authorized by law to
determine his guilt.
In- our opinion, the provision in the constitution of Utah
providing for the trial in courts of general jurisdiction of
criminal cases, not capital, by a jury composed of eight persons,
is expostfacto in its application to felonies committed before
the Territory became a State, because, in respect of such
crimes, the Constitution of the United States gave the accused,
at the time of the commission of his offence, the right to be
tried by a jury of twelve persons, and made it impossible to
deprive him of his liberty except by the unanimous verdict of
such a jury.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded fo,
further _proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissented.

VIRGINIA AND ALABAMA COAL COMPANY v.
CENTRAL RAILROAD AND BANKING COMPANY
OF GEORGIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE-CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 100. Argued December 14, 15, 189. -Decided

May 9, 1898.

Where expenditures have been made which were essentially necessary to
enable a railroad to be operated as a continuing business, and it was the
expectation of the creditors that the indebtedness so created would be
paid out of the current earnings of the company, a superior equity arises,
In case the property is put into the hands of a receiver, in favor of the
material man, as against mortgage borldholders, in income arising from
the operation of the property both before and after the appointment of
the receiver, which equity is not affected by the fact that the company
itself is the purchaser of the supplies, but is solely dependent upon the
facts that the supplies were sold and purchased for use, that they were
used in the operation of the road, that they were essential for such operation, and that the sale was not made simply upon personal credit, but upon

