HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY v. TEXAS.

243

Statement of the Case.

away; and we cannot bold that the company was denied by
the judgment of those courts in this respect any title, right,
privilege or immunity secured by"the Constitution or laws of
the United States.

Judgment affirmed.

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY COM1-

PANY v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVTL APPEALS FOR THE SECOND SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 406. Argued January 24, 25, 1898.-

Decided April 25, 1898.

In Galveston, Harrisburg& San Antonio Bailway Go. v. Texas, ante, 226, the
grants of land repealed by the operation of Section 6 of Article X of the
constitution of Texas of 1869, were grants to aid in the construction of
lines of railway not authorized until after that provision took effect ;
whereas, in this case, the grants which are claimed to be affected by it were
grants made prior to the adoption of that constitution, for the purpose
of aiding in the construction of the road from Brenham to Austin. Held,
that that constitutional provision, as thus enforced, impairs the obligation'
of the contract between the State and the railway company, and cannot
be sustained.
Argument was urged on behalf of defendant in error that the particular
lands sued for are situated in what is known as the Pacific reservation,
being a reservation for the benefit of the Texas and Pacific Railway
Company, created by a special act of May 2, 1873, and hence, that though
the certificates were valid, they were not located, as the law required, on
unappropriated public domain. This question was not determined by
either of the appellate tribunals, but, on the contrary, their judgments
rested distinctly on the invalidity of the certificates for reasons involving the disposition of Federal questions. This court therefore declines
to enter on an examination of the controversy now suggested, on this
point.

THIS was a suit instituted by the State of Texas in the District Court of Nolan County, Texas, Fbruary 3, 1890, to
recover of the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company
and the purchaser under it, sixteen sections of land of 640

acres each, located in that county by virtue of certificates
issued by the State to the railway company. It was alleged

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

that the certificates were issued by the commissioner of the
general land office of Texas without authority of law, and
that the action of the commissioner in issuing and delivering
them and permitting them to be located and allowing the
lands to be surveyed thereunder, and in receiving and filing
the field notes in the general land office of the State, was
without authority of law and in violation of the constitution
and laws of the State at that time. And also that the certificates were located in territory reserved by an act passed
May 2, 1873, for the location of certificates issued to the
Texas and Pacific Railway Company. It appeared from the
State's complaint that the certificates were a part of those
issued for the construction and completion of about ninetyfour miles of main track and about two and one half miles of
side track of that part of the company's railvay extending
from Brenham to Austin.
The District Court gave judgment in favor of the State,
which was affirmed by the Court of Civil Appeals. 36 S. W.
'Rep. 819. Application was made to the Supreme Court of
the State for a writ of error, which was denied. 40 S. W.
Rep. 402. This writ of error was then allowed.
The Galveston and Red River Railway Company was incorporated by a special act of the legislature of Texas, alpproved March 11, 1848. Special Laws, 1848, 370. By the
second ' section of that act the company was "invested' with
the right of making, owning and maintaining a railway from
'such a point on Galveston Bay, or its contiguous waters, to
such point upon the Red River, between the eastern boundary
line of Texas and Coffee's station, as the said company may
deem most suitable, with the privilege of making, owning and
maintaining such branches to the railway as they may deem
expedient."
A special act supplementary to that act was approved
Febfuary 14, 1852,-c. 148, by section 14 of which there was
granted to the company "eight sections of land of six hundred
and forty acres each, for every mile of railway actually completed by them and ready for use ;" and provision was made
for the inspection of the road from time to time by the state

HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY v. TEXAS. 245
Statement of the Case.

engineer, or a commissioner to be appointed by the Governor,
as any section of five miles thereof should be completed, on
whose certificate that said section had been completed in a
good and substantial manner and ready for use, the comptroller should give information of that fact to the commissioner of the general land office, whose duty it should be to
issue land certificates for the lands thus granted, which should
be located upon the public domain of the State, survey be
made, the field notes returned, and patents issued. Special
Laws, 1852, 142.
By another special act of February 7, 1853, the preliminary action of the incorporators in commencing the survey
and grade of the railway at the city of Houston was confirmed; and by section two, tye company was "further authorized and empowered to extend said railway to the city of
Galveston, and also to make and construct simultaneously with
the main railway, described in the original acts establishing
said company, a branch thereof towards the city of Austin,
under the same restrictions and stipulations provided in said
original acts, etc." Special Laws, 1853, Extra Session, 36, 37.
January 30, 1854, the legislature passed a general law granting sixteen sections of land to the mile for constructed railroad, which is sufficiently set forth in the preceding case, as
well as the supplementary act approved the same day. It
was provided that companies accepting the provisions of the
act and already entitled to eight sections per mile should not
be entitled to receive any grant for branch roads.
January 23, 1856, the legislature passed a special act, c. 20,
entitled "An act for the relief of the Galveston and Red
River Railway Company, and supplementary to the several
acts incorporating said company," by which, after providing
that the company should have six months after January. 30,
1856, to complete the first twenty-five miles of its road, commencing at the city of Houston, it was declared that "said
company shall be entitled to the rights, benefits and privileges granted by an act approved January thirtieth, eighteen
hundred and fifty-four, entitled 'An act to encourage the
construction of railroads in Texas by donations of land,'

OCTOBER TER-Ar, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

upon the completion of said twenty-five miles within said six
months," etc., upon certain conditions, to wit: That the company should construct twenty-five miles of its road each year
after the.expiration of said time; that it should maintain its
principal office and keep its records on the line of its road;
that a majority of its directors should reside in the State;
that it should build its main line to a certain point before
commencing any branch road; that the act of February 7,
1853, to regulate railroads should apply to the charter; and
that it should "yield all general branching privileges, except
such as are expressly granted by the provisions of its charter
to certain points, and shall be required to expefid only so
much of its capital stock upon any branch as shall be expressly subscribed to such branch, and 9hall not spend upon
its trunk any moneys subscribed for any branch, and shall be
required to complete its main trunk to the point on Red
River contefnplated in its charter, or to such point of intersection between said road and some other road running from
the northern or eastern boundary of Texas towards El Paso,
as shall be"agreed upon between the directors of said coinpany." it was provided that the company might assign certificates for lands granted it; that it might borrow money for
the construction of th6 railway and secure the same by nmortgage and the issue of bonds; and that it should have the right
after location and survey of the lands granted it, or any part
thereof, to mortgage or sell any part of the same. The sixth
section read: "That nothing in this act shall be -so construed
as to affect the right of the State to repehl or modify the act
of January 30, 1854, entitled 'An act to encourage the construction of railroads in Texas by donations of land;' provided, that the right to lands acquired before said repeal or
modification shall in all cases be protected." Special Laws,
1856, 28, 30.
By another special act approved September 1, 1856, c. 351,
the Galveston and Red River Railway Company was authorized to change its name to "The Houston and Texas Central
IRailway Company," and it was also provided that the failure
of the company to build the second section of its road within

HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY v. TEXAS. 247
Statement of the- Case.

one year after.the completion of the first section should not
work a discontinuance as to said company of the benefits of
the general act of January 30, 1854, nr of any other general
or special laws relative to railroads, "if said company shall
have completed their second and third sections, amounting to
at least fifty miles, at the expiration of two years after the
construction of said first seqtion." Special Laws, 1856, 259,
260.
By another special act passed February 4, 1858, c. 86, it was,
among other things, providpd -thatthe failure of the company
to complete the third section of its road by July 30, 1858,
should not work a discontinuance as to the company of the
benefits of the act of January 30, 1854, or any other general
laws in reference to railroads, if the company should complete
the third section by July 30, 1859, and that on the completion
of subsequent sections of twenty-five miles annually after July
30, 1859, or fift y miles every two years, "said company shall be
entitled to sixteen sections of land per mile, as contemplated
in said last-mentioned act, for each section so completed;" and
"that .the benefits of the provisions in the general laws shall
only inure to the said company while said laws shall remain
in force." Special Laws, 1858, 94, 95.
By still another special act, approved February 8, 1861, c. 13,
any failure to complete the fourth and fifth sections was
condoned, and the company given until January 30, 1863, in
wvhich to complete those sections. Special Laws, 1861, 11, 12.
When the civil war began in 1861, the company had completed and bad in operation its main line for about eighty
miles from the terminus at Houston. January 11, 1862, the
legislature passed two general acts, continuing in force all laws
granting lands to railway companies and extending the time
in which they were required to construct certain parts of their
lines until two years after the close of the war. These acts
provided that the president and directors of this railway company should, before the provisions of the acts might extend to
the benefit of the company, pass a resolution restoring the
original bonafide stockholders of the company to the rights,
privileges and immunities to which they were entitled previous

OCTOBER TERAI, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

to the sale of the road as mentioned in the acts, provided the
stockholders should pay into the treasury of the company ten
per cent upon their stock on or before the expiration of the
extension of time provided, or otherwise should forfeit their
rights, privileges and property interests as stockholders. Laws,
1862, c. 69, pp. 43, 44, 46, 47. The resolution required by
these acts was duly passed by the company.
On September 21, 1866, a special act was passed, entitled
"An act granting lands to the Iouston and Texas Central
Railway Company," by which a specific grant was made to
that company "of sixteen sections of land, of six hundred and
forty acres each, for every mile of road it has constructed, or
may construct, and put in ruinning order, 'in accordance with
the provisions of the charter of said railroad company; '" provided that the lands theretofore received under the general act
of January 30, 1854, should be deducted from the grant thus
made, and that the certificates issued on the first three sections
should "be included in the terms, benefits and conditions of
this act as if issued by virtue of its provisions;" and that the
company should construct and put in running order a section
of twenty-five miles of additional road to that now built, within
one year from January 1, 1867, or fifty miles within two years
from that date; and that the road should be put in running
order to Bryant's station by September 1, 1867. Provision
was made for the inspection of the road from time to time as
sections should be completed, and for the issue and location
of certificates and the survey of the lands thereby granted.
Special Laws, 1866, c. 10, pp. 33, 34.
November 13, 1866, a general law was passed whereby the
grant of'sixteen sections per mile under prior laws was continued for ten years from that date. Laws, 1866, c. 174, p. 212.
This act also provided that "all tap roads over twenty-five
miles long shall be entitled to the benefits of this act."
By the constitution of 1869, Art. 12, § 43, the statutes of
limitation of civil suits were declared suspended by the act
of secession of January 28, 1861, and to be considered as suspended until the acceptance of that 6onstitution by Congress,
which acceptance occurred March 30, 1870.

HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY v. TEXAS. 249
Statement of the Case.

The Washington County Railroad Company was incorporated by a special act approved February 2, 1856, and was
invested "with the right of locating, constructing, owning
and maintaining a railway commencing at such point on the
trunk of the Galveston and Red River Railroad as said corporition shall deem most suitable, crossing the Brazos River
within the limits of Washington County, and then running by
the most suitable and direct line to Brenham in said county."
Special Laws, 1856, 49. This railroad company was organized
and thereafter constructed and put in running order from a
junction with the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company at Hempstead, thence directly towards the city of Austin
to Brenham, a distance of twenty-five miles.
Some time prior to August 29,1868, the Houston and Texas
Central Railway Company purchased the Washington County
Railroad at foreclosure sale. On that day the convention
which had assembled to frame a new constitution, and which
did frame the constitution adopted in 1869, passed an ordinance, reciting that the Houston and Texas Central Railway
Company had become the owner, by purchase, of the Washington County Railroad; that both of said companies were
indebted to the State for sums borrowed from the special
school fund; and that the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company desired to extend the Washington County
branch to the city of Austin as soon as it could be done, and
to extend its main line to Red River; and it was deblared
"that the Washington County Railroad is hereby made and
declared to be a branch of the Houston and Texas Central
Railroad, and shall henceforth be known and called the
'Western Branch of the Houston and Texas Central Railway,'
and shall be controlled and managed by said Houston and
Texas Central Railway Company, and the Houston and Texas
Central Railway Company shall have the right to extend said
western branch of their road from the town of Brenham, in
Washington County, to the city of Austin, in Travis County,
by the most eligible route as near an air line as may be practicable."
The same convention also passed, December 23, 1868, a

OCTOBER TERAE, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

"declaration for the relief of the Houston and Texas Central
Railway Company," which provided that the company should
not suffer "any forfeiture of any rights secured to it by existing laws by reason of the failure of said company to construct
and put in running order their said railway to the town of
Calvert, in Robertson County, by the first day of January,
A.D. 1869, as required by the act of the 21st of September. A.D.
1866, provided said railway shall be constructed and put in
good running order for the use of the public, to the said town
of Calvert, by the first day of April, A.D. 1869."
The constitution framed by this convention was adopted
by a vote of the people, at an election held November 30 to
December 3, 1869, and was accepted by Congress March 30,
1870, 16 Stat. 80, c. 39. Section 6, article X, of that constitution, read as follows:
"The legislature shall not hereafter grant lands to any person or persons, nor shall any certificates for land be sold at
the land office, except to actual settlers upon the same, and
in lots not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres."
August 15, 1870, the legislature of Texas passed a special
act entitled "An act for the relief of the Houston and Texas
Central Railway Company," which recited substantially the
same matters as were recited in the declaration of the convention, and provided in section 1 as follows:
"That the Washington County Railroad is hereby made
and declared to be, to all intents and purposes in law, a part
of the Houston and Texas.Central Railway, and shall be under
the control and management of the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company in like manner as every other part of
said railway, and the'Houston and Texas Central Railway
Company shall have the right to build and extend the part of
its railway heretofore known as the 'Washington County Railroad' from the town of Brenham, in the-county of Washington, to the city of Austin, in thd county of Travis, by the, most
eligible route to be selected by engineers of the company;
and the said company shall also have the right to build a
branch road diverging from the main trunk at some point in
Navarro County and striking Red River at such point as will

HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY v. TEXAS. 251
Statement of the Case.

enable such railway company to make a connection with any
railroad which may be built to said river from the northward;
and the said Houston and Texas Central Railway Company,
by reason of the construction of said railway from the town
of Brenham to the city of Austin, and by reason of the construction of said branch from Navarro County to Red River,
shall have and enjoy all the rights, privileges, grants and benefits that are now, or may at any time heeafter, be secured
to any railroad company in the State of Texas by any general
law of the State, and shall be subject, in respect of said railway and said branch, to all the duties and responsibilities imposed upon the said Houston and Texas Central Railway
Company by its charter and by other laws of the State."
Section 4 read thus:
"N'o forfeiture of any of the rights or privileges secured to
it by existing laws shall be enforced against the said Houston
and Texas Central Railway Company, by reason of its failure
to comply with the conditions as to construction, imposed by
the first section of the act of the twenty-first of September,
A.D. 1866, entitled 'An act granting lands to the Houston and
Texas Central Railway Company;' but the said company
shall have and enjoy all the rights-and privileges secured to it
by existing laws, the same as if the conditions embraced in
the first section of the said act of the twenty-first of September, A.D. 1866, had been, in all respects, complied with; pro- vided that the land grant to said company shall cease, unless
the said company shall complete their main trunk, east of the
Brazos River, to Richland Creek, in Navarro County, within
twelve months from the first day of October, A.D. 1870, and
shall also complete their road to the city of Austin within two
years after the passage of this act." Special Laws, 1870, 325.
The company completed its road to the city of Austin
December 25, 1871, and completed its main line to Richland
Creek, September 26, 1871.
Section 6 of article X of the constitution of 1869 was
amended as of March 19, 1873, so as to authorize the legislature to grant lands for purposes of internal improvement.
Thereupon the legislature of Texas passed many special laws

OCTOBER TERI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

granting lands to railroads, and, afterward, on August 16,
1876, the legislature passed another general law granting sixteen sections of land per mile in aid of the construction of
railroads. Laws, 1876, 153.
It appeared "that the defendants paid taxes on the lands
sued for continuously since they were located and up to the
present time," and "that the defendants paid all the fees of
locating and surveying the said'lands sued for, as well as for
the same number of alternate sections known as the even
numbers for the public free-school fund." Application for the
inspection of the Austin line, as well as for the main line to
Corsicana, was made by the company to the Governor February
9, 1872, which was done, and report showing the completion
of the road made February 21, 1872. The certificates were
issued in July of that year. The lands were placed on the
maps of the general land office and always recognized as the
company's land. They were all mortgaged by the company
and sold on foreclosure in September, 1888.
21r. R. S. Lovett for plaintiff in error. .Mr.
James A.
Baker and -Mr. J. P. Blair were with him on the brief.
_2Jr. M3. il. Crane, attorney general of the State of Texas,
for defendant in error.
MR.CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Texas held in Galveston, Harrisbtry
& S'an" Antonio Railway Com.tpany v. Texas, 89 Texas, 340,
that, conceding that section six of article ten of the constitution of 1869 did not repeal prior laws granting lands in aid of
the defined lines of existing railroad companies, the section
did operate to cut off the right to earn lands by the construction of lines not authorized until after the provision took
effect. We have just considered that case, and expressed
the opinion that the constitutional provision as thus enforced
involved no infraction of the Constitution of the United States.

HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY v: TEXAS.

253

Opinion of the Court.

In the present case the state courts have decided that although
the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company may have
had the right under legislation prior to the adoption of the
constitution of 1869 to construct a road from its main line to
Austin and to earn lands by such construction, yet that the
purchase by the company prior to 1869 of the Washington
Railroad, running from Hempstead on the company's main
line to Brenham in the direction of Austin, should not be
treated as making that road part of the line the company
was authorized to build; and that the extension from Brenham to Austin must be held to have been built as an independent line under the act of August 15, 1870, which, having
been passed while the constitution of 1869 was in force, the
company could not acquire any right to the land grant by the
construction of road between the latter points. The question
does not arise in 'espect of lands for the twenty-five miles
from Hlempstead to Brenham, but in respect of lands allowed
as earned for the distance from Brenham to Austin, for which
the certificates were duly issued, and were located; and which
have always prior to this suit been recognized as lands of the
company, and have been sold as such.
In other words, the state courts have applied to the road
from Brenham to Austin the same rule laid down as to new
lines authorized to be constructed, for the first time, after the
constitution of 1869 was adopted. We cannot concur in this
view, but, on the contrary, are of opinion that the constitutional provision as thus enforced impairs the obligation of the
contract between the State and the company and cannot be
sustained.
The Houston and Texas Central Railway Company, then
styled the Galveston and Red River Railway Company, was
authorized by its act of incorporation not only to construct
the main line therein specified, but, by its second section, such
branches as it should deem expedient; and by the fourteenth
section .of the special act of February 14, 1852, eight sections
of land were granted to the company for every mile of railroad it should construct, no distinction being made between
branch and main lines. By section 2 of the special act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

February '(, 1853, the company was empowered "to make
and construct simultaneously with the main railway described
in the original acts establishing said company, a branch
thereof toward the city of Austin."
The general act of January 30, 1854, granted to all railroad
companies constructing a section of twenty-five miles or more
of railroad, sixteen sections of land for every mile of road so
constructed and put in running order; though by section 12
it was provided that any company then entitled to a grant of
eight sections of land per mile, which should accept the provisions of the act, should not be entitled to receive the grant
thereby made for any branch road. This company was then
entitled to eight sections per mile, but the special act of January 23, 1856, supplementary to the several acts incorporating
the company, expressly extended the rights, benefits and
privileges of the general act of January 30, 1854, to the
company, subject. to certain conditions not material to be
enumerated, and with the limitation as to branch lines that the
company should "yield all general branch-ng privileges exeept
such as are expressly granted by the proisions of its c]arter
to certain points," and requiring it to spend on the branch
only the money subscribed for the branch, and on the trunk
only the money subscribed -therefor.
By section two of the original act of incorporation general
branching privileges had been conferred, and by section two
of the special act of February 7, 1853, express authority to
construct a branch to the city of Austin. It would seem
plain then that section five of the act of January 23, 1856,
distinctly referred to the right to construct this particular
branch,'and so preserved it that the benefits of the act of
January 30, 1854, were extended to that branch and its constructior, and no other. In other words, all branching privileges except for the Austin line were yielded in accepting the
benefits of the act of 1854, but as to~that expressly authorized
branch the right to construct it was preserved with the benefits accorded to its construction. The act of February 4, 1858,
repeated the assurance of the benefits of the act of 1854.
But it is said that by the sixth section of the act of 1856

HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY v. TEXAS.

255

Opinion of the Court.

the right to repeal or modify the act of 1854 was reserved,
and that by the second section of the act of 1858 the benefits
-of any general law inured only so long as such law remained
in force. Rights to lands acquired before such repeal or modification would not, however, be affected thereby, nor is it
important to specially discuss the operation of the constitution
of 1869 in this regard, as the special act of September 21,
1866, made a speci tic grant to the company of "sixteen sections
of land of six hundred and forty acres each of every mile of
road it has constructed or may construct and put in running
order in accordance with the provisions of the charter of said
company." We think that this plainly applied to the construction of the Austin line as well as the main line of the
company. It applied to all lines constructed by the company
in accordance with the pro-visions of its charter. And the
right to construct the Austin line had been specifically conferred by the special act of February 7, 1853. The general
branching privileges which the company possessed under its
original act of incorporation it had been required to surrender
by the act of 1856, except such as were "expressly granted
by the provisions of its charter to certain points," and Austin
was a point to which the company was expressly authorized
to build. So that the Austin branch was one of the lines
covered by the charter when the act of September 21, 1866,
was passed, and the grant thereby made applied to it. And
there was no reservation of a right to repeal or modify the
act.
This legislation secured the construction of the branch to
Austin, the capital of the State, an obvious necessity, and
especially as that important point was then without any line
of railway whatever.
Counsel for the State contended that the act granted lands
for the construction only of the main line and not of the Austin line. The last clause of the third section of the act was:
"And said railroad company shall construct their road in the
line heretofore prescribed by 'An act for the relief of the
Houston and Texas Central Railway Company,' approved February the 8th, 1861."

OCTOBER TER-M, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The line defined in the act referred to was: " Provided, said
railroad shall r'un on the nearest and most practicable route
from its line at or near Horn Hill to Dresden, in Navarro
County, and thence to the town of Dallas, or within one and
a half miles of said town, and thence to the terminus of the
Red Liver, within fifteen miles of Preston." Special Laws,
1861, 11.
This fixed the route of the main line by Dresden and Dallas
to the vicinity of Preston instead of Coffee's station. The
route of the Austin line had been provided for by the act
of February 7, 1853, and there was evidently no occasion to
change it.
But it does not follow that because of this definition of the
main line in the third section the grant in the first section of
the act of September 21, 1866, should be confined to that line.
The company already had a grant of sixteen sections per
mile for its main line under the general act of January 30, 1854,
and there was no controversy over that, nor any need of further legislation in that regard when this act was passed. As
to the branch line there might be dispute, and, furthermore,
the right to repeal the grant was reserved in the acts of January, 1856, and February, 1858; and it may well be assumed
that the object of the act of September 21, 1866, was to remove
any doubt on the subject of the grant for the Austin line and
remove the danger of a possible repeal. We are the more constrained to this conclusion by the language of the subsequent
'general act of November 13, 1866, "that all tap roads
over 25
miles long shall be entitled to the benefits of this act," which
modified the policy as to branch roads indicated in the act of
1854.
We find then that the company was granted by the State
prior to the adoption of the constitution of 1869, sixteen sections of land per mile for the construction of the Austin line
by the special act of January 23, 1856, and by the special act
of September 21, 1866. And the rights of the company to the
lands granted were preserved by extensions of time, as occasion required, within which to comply with conditions respecting the rate of construction. By the act of September 1, 1856,

HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY v. TEXAS. 257
Opinion of the Court.

the failure of the company to complete the second section of
its road within one year after the completion of the first section was waived; again by the act of February 4, 1858, the
company was granted further time in which to complete
construction; again by the act of February 8, 1861, it was
given until January 30, 1863, to perform the work required
of it; and during the war the laws of January 11, 1862, were
passed extending the time until two years after the close of
the war on the condition that the extension should inure to
the benefit of the company only in the evefit that it should restore the rights of the stockholders which had been foreclosed,
which condition was complied with by the company; after
this further time was given by the act of September 21, 1866;
again by the act of: November 13, 1866; and again by the
ordinance of December 23, 1868; and finally by section four
of the special act of August 15, 1870.
Before the constitution of 1869 was adopted, the company
had acquired the Washington County Railroad, and the convention which framed that instrument on August 29, 1868,
ratified and confirmed the purchase of that road, and declared
that the Washington County Railroad was thereby made and
declared to be a branch of the Houston and Texas Central
Railroad, to be controlled and managed by the Houston and
Texas Central Railway Company, with the right to extend
the road from Brenham to Austin by the most eligible route.
The company had completed and had in operation five sections of twenty-five miles each of its main line, and by the
acquisition of the Washington County Railroad, had in operation that part of the Austin branch extending from the junction of the main line at Hempstead to Brenham directly
toward Austin.
Thus it is seen that the company had been granted sixteen
sections of land per mile for the 'construction of the Austin
branch as well as the main line; that it had accepted the
grant; and had commenced to earn it, and had actually acquired the right to earn it, by the construction of an important
part of the line which the State by the grant intended to promote, before the adoption or acceptance of the constitution of
VOL. CLXX-1

7

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

1869. The company h not merely organized and commenced
the work it wvas'incorporated to carry on, but had completed
a litrge part of it. It had completed one hundred and twentyfive miles of main line prior to June 15, 1869, and manifegtlhad much more in process of construction, for it appears froni;
the record that several additional sections were completed and
put, in operation soon after that date. -It had also acquired
and had in operation that part of the Austin branch extending
from the junction at Hempstead to Brenham, a distance of
twenty-five miles, originally constructed by the Washington
County Railroad Company and afterwards purchased by this
company.
We do not understand the state courts to have decided that
the purchase of the Washington County road was ultra vires,
but to have held that the construction of the line from Brenham to Austin was an independent enterprise authorized for
the first time by the act of August 13, 1870, and being a new
and additional line no land grant could be claimed for it
because the constitutional provision was then in force.
In our opinion, however, if the Washington Conty road
was lawfully acquired by the Houston and Texas Central Railway in 1868, it became as much a part of the Austin branch
as if it had been constructed by the company, and its subsequent completion to Austin placed that part of the line from
Brenham to Austin in the same situation as if the entire line
from iHempstead to Austin had been in fact so constructed.
And this would have been so if the company had built ninetyfive miles from Hempstead towards Austin, and then lawfully
obtained twenty-five miles of existing road to complete the
branch. Of course the company was not entitled to a land
grant for the twenty-five miles from Tempstead to Brenham,
nor is any such claim made, but that twenty-five miles became
by the purchase a part -of the branch with like effect as if
originally part of it, and to treat the completion of the branch
as .a new and independent enterprise we cannot but regard as
inadmissible in view of the facts. For this twenty-five miles
had been purchased; was controlled and operated ; and existed
as a part of the company's Austin branch in fact.

HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY v.-TEXAS.

259,

Opinion of the Court.

The Houston Company and the Washington Company were
both endowed with the capacity to make contracts, and generally to do and perform all such acts as might be necessary and
proper for or incident to the fulfilment of their obligations.
Act, Mfar. 11, 184S, § 1, Spec. Laws, 1848, 370; Act, Feb. 2,
1856, § 2, Spec. Laws, 1856, 49. They were both required to
afford the public the advantages of a continuous line. Act of
Feb. 14, 1852, § 9, Spec. Laws, 1852, 142; Act of Feb. 2, 1856,
§ 12, Spec. Laws, 1856, 49. The acquisition of the Washington road was in accomplishment of the object of securing a
line to the capital, and was not in contravention of the general
intention of the legislature. The ordinances of the convention
in terms ratified the transaction and reiterated the previous
authority to extend to Austin. These ordinances are part of
the history of the case, and reference to them in connection
with the alleged scope of the particular provision of the constitution framed by that convention and submitted to the vote
of the people may not improperly be made. In Quinlan v.
Bouston &c. Railway Co., 89 Texas, 356, it was held that a
convention called to frame a constitution to be submitted to a
popular vote cannot pass ordinances and give them validity
without submitting them to the people for ratification" as part
of the constitution.
These ordinances were not. so submitted, and we are not
called on to express-any opinion as to whether in view of the
anomalous circumstances under which this particular convention met; the previous decisions of the Supreme Court of the
State; or any other considerations, they, or either of them,
could be regarded as valid.
For irrespective of that, the act of August 15, 1870, expressly recognized and ratified the purchase of the Washington railroad and the State could not deny the validity of that
which it had expressly validated, if otherwise open to question.
In Galvesto'i Railroad v. Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459, referring
to a mortgage executed by a railroad company in Texas when
there was no statute of that State expressly authorizing railroad companies to mortgage their roads as such, Mr. Justice
Bradley, speaking for this court, said: "Without examining

OCTOBER TERIV,

f897.

Opinion of the Court.

how far the operative effect of a mortgage executed by a rail.
.'oadcompany u'pon its road, works and franchises may extend,
per se, without statutory aid, it is sufficient to say that, in our
opinion, the legislature of Texas has validated the mortgages,
and given them the effect which, by their terms, they were
intended to have."
It appears to us that this purchase comes within the rule
thus expressed, and that if there had originally been objection
it was technical merely and removed by the act of 1870.
Now the latter act authorized no new line nor made any
new graft of lands to which no previous right existed, nor
restored lands which had been forfeited. If ground of forfeiture had accrued by reason of failure to complete as rapidly
as required, it had not been enforced, and if outstanding was
waived by the act.
If there had been a failure to construct in time so that a
forfeiture would have been justified, no such forfeiture was
declared by any judicial proceeding, or by any legislative
action equivalent to office found. St. Louis, Ironr i1ountain,
&c.Railway v. MJcGee, 115 U. S. 469; Bybee v. Oregon & California Railroad,139 U. S. 663; Galveston, fHarrisburg &e.
Railway v. State, 81 Texas, 572.
And the executive officers of the State, charged with the
administration of the laws granting-lands to railroads, and
vested with jurisdiction to determine the facts, had ascertained and determined the facts here, and issued the certificates because in their judgment the road had been completed
in accordance with the law.
No argument was made that any ground of forfeiture could
be availed of in the case, nor was any such point ruled by the
Court of Civil Appeals, or by the Supreme Court.
The judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals may have been
rested in, part on the view that the constitution of 1869 repealed all laws granting lands to railroad companies regardless
of the acceptance of such laws and the construction of the
lines of road thereunder.
The Supreme Court proceeded on the ground that the road
from Brenham to Austin was not authorized until after 1869

HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY v. TEXAS.

261

Opinion of the Court.

and fell into the category of a new line, and therefore the
company had no right to the land grant.
From what we have said it will be perceived that we are
unable to accede to either of these propositions.
In our opinion it results from the legislation and the facts
that the company had the right to construct the line to Austin
and earn sixteen sections per mile by so doing, prior to 1869;
that by the acceptance of its charter and the subsequent legislation, and by the completion of an important part of its road
before the adoption of the constitution of 1869, the company
had acquired a vested right to the land grant; that the purchase of the Washington County road must be regarded as
valid, and that thereby that road became part of the Austin
line in operation as such before 1869; that the extension of
the branch from Brenham to Austin cannot properly be
treated as a new and independent line, and that there therefore was a contract between the State and the company in
respect of lands earned by the construction thereof.
It follows that section 6 of Article X of the constitution of
Texas as given effect by the state courts impairs the obligation of the contract and deprives the company of its property
without due process of law.
Argument was also uirged on behalf of defendant in error
that the particular lands sued for are situated in what is
known as the Pacific reservaiion, being a reservation for the
benefit of the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, created
by a special act of May 2, 1873, and hence, that though the
certificates were valid, they were not located, as the law
required, on unappropriated public domain.
This question was not determined by either of the appellate
tribunals, but, on the contrary, their judgments rested distinctly on the invalidity of the certificates for reasons involving the disposition of- Federal questions. We must decline
to enter on an examination of the controversy now suggested
on this point.
The judgment is reversed and the cause rernandedforfurther proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

