STUART v. EASTON.
Syllabus.

quently to the time of its execution, and we are not called
upon to discuss the question as to how far alterations of the
regulations or of the law may affect the continued obligation
of the obligors in a bond like this.
Substantially the same question that we have been discussing arose in the case of Meads v. United States, decided in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit, in July, 1897, and
reported in 54 U. S. App. 150; also in 81 Fed. iRep. 684.
The case was heard before Circuit Judges Taft and Lurton,
and District Judge Clark, and conclusion arrived at in that
case is in accord with that which we have come to herein.
There is no question of estoppel in the case. The surety
had possession of some $25,000 of the moneys collected by
the receiver, and when the agent of the Government said that
the receiver did not owe it a- dollar, the surety repaid to' the
various entrymen the amounts that they had paid, as far as
the money went. In doing so, he lessened by that amount
the liability of the sureties on the bond, and there is no proof
that any portion of the indebtedness for which this judgment
was recovered was represented in those payments.
We think this case was correctly decided, and the judgment
is, therefore,
_____

_

4ffrmed.

STUART v. EASTON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 197.

Argued April 12, 13, 1898.-Decded May 9, 1898.

The construction and legal effect of a patent for land is matter for the
court, and evidence to aid in that construction is incompetent.
The clear intent of the act of the Province of Pennsylvania of March 11,
1752, authorizing trustees to acquire the land in question, was, that while
the legal estate in fee in the land should be acquired by the trustees, the
beneficial use or equitable estate was to be in the inhabitants of the
county; and the provision following the authorization to acquire
the land, "and thereon to erect and build a court house and prison," was

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.
no more than a direction to the trustees as to the use to be made of the
land after it had been acquired.
The language of the habendum that the conveyance is "in trust," nevertheless to and for the erectihng thereon a court house for the public use
and service of the said county, and to and for no other use, intent or
purpose whatsoever, under the decisions of the courts of Pennsylvania
amounted simply to conforming the grant to the legislative authority
previously given, and cannot be deemed to have imported a limitation of
the fee.
The purposes of the grant by the patent of 1764 of the lot in the centre of
the public square at Eiston, in conformity to the clear intent of the act
of 1752, was undoubtedly to vest an equitable estate in the land in the
inhabitants of the county, the trust in their favot" being executed so soon
as the county became capable of lolding the title.
If the grant be viewed as one merely to trustees to hold " for the uses and
purposes mentioned in the act of the assembly," it is clear that the fee
was not upon a condition subsequent noi one upon limitation.
Without positively determining whether the estate in the county is held
charged with a trust for a charitable use, or is an unrestricted fee simple
on the theory that the trustees were merely the link for passing the title
authorized by the act of 1752, it is held, that the trial court did not err in
directing a verdict for the defendant.

By an act of the general assembly of the Province of Pennsylvania, passed on March 11, 1752, Penn. Provincial Laws
1775, p. 235, c. 2, the county of Northampton was erected out
of a portion of the county of Bucks. In the sixth and seventh
clauses of the act it was provided as follows:

"VI. AnA be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid,
That it shall and may be lawful to and for Thomas Craig,
Hugh Wilson, John Jones, Thomas Armstrong and James
Martin, or any three of them, to purchase and take assurance

to them and their heirs of a piece of land situate in some convenient place in the said town (of Easton,) in trust, and for the
use of the inhabitants of the said county, and thereon to erect
and build a court house and prison, sufficient to accommodate
the public service of the said county, and for the ease and convenience of the inhabitants.
"VII. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid,
That for the defraying the charges of purchasing the land,
building and erecting the court house and prison aforesaid, it
shall and may be lawful to and for the commissioners and as-

STUART v. EASTON.
Statement of the Case.

sessors of the said county, or a majority of them, to assess and
levy, and they are hereby required to assess and levy so much
money as the said trustees, or any three of them, shall judge
necessary for purchasing the land and finishing the said court
house and prison. Provided, always, the sum of money, so to
be raised, does not exceed three hundred pounds, current
money of this province."
On iMarch 4, 1753, an act was passed in which it was recited
that the amount specified in the act of March 11, 1752, had
been expended in building a prison, and authority was given
to assess and levy a further sum not exceeding a stated amount,
as the persons named in the act, or any three of them, should
judge necessary for building a court house and finishing the
prison already erected.
On July 9, 1762, the following warrant of survey was issued:
"PENNSYLVANIA,

88.

".By the P-,oprietaries.
"Whereas in and by an act of General Assembly of this
Province entitled ' An Act of erecting the Northwest part of
Bucks into a separate County,' which in and by the said act is
called Northampton and Thomas Craig, Hugh Wilson, John
Jones, Thomas Armstrong and James Martin, or any three of
them, were appointed Trustees to purchase and take assurance
to them and their heirs of a piece of land situate in some convenient place in the Town of Easton in the said County, and
thereon to erect and build a Court House and Prison sufficient
to accommodate the public service of the said County, and for
the ease and convenience of the inhabitants, as in and by the
said act appears. And whereas on application and request of
said TruStees, and out of our regard to encourage and promote
the Improvement of the said Town and general good and convenience of the inhabitants of the said County, we have condescended and agreed to grant to the said trustees a lot or piece
of ground of Eighty Feet square to be laid out in the centre of
the great square in the middle of the said Town of Easton for
a Court House for the use and the accommodation of the inhabitants of the said town and County forever. These are
VOL. cLrxx-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

therefore to require you to survey and lay out, or cause to be
surveyed and laid out, a lot or piece of ground in the centre of
the great Square in the said Town of Easton of the said dimensions of Eighty feet square for the public use of a Court
House for the inhabitants of the said town and county, and
make return thereof into our Secretary's Office in order for
confirmation to the said Trustees and their heirs for the use
aforesaid, and for your so doing this shall be your sufficient
Warrant.
"Given under my hand and the seal of the Land Office,
by virtue of certain powers from the said Proprietaries at
Philadelphia, the ninth day of July, 1762.
"To JOHN LUKENS,
JAMES HAMILTON.
"1Surveyor Gencral."
A survey was made and returned, in which it was recited:
In pursuance of a Warrant dated the 9th 'day of July,
1762. Surveyed the 8th day of October, 1763, to Thomas
Craig and others the above described Lot of Ground Situate
in the Public Square of the Town of Easton in the County of
Northampton. Containing in length North & South eighty
feet and in breadth East & West eighty feet."
Forming part of the certificate was A plat exhibiting a large
open space, three hundred and twenty feet square, intersected
from north to south and east to west by two eighty feet wide
streets (Northampton and Pomfret). In the centre of the
open space referred to, facing the ,streets mentioned, was a
square plot of ground, marked as being eighty feet on each
side.
On September 8, 1764, a patent was executed as follows:
"Thomas Penn & Richard Penn Esquires true and absolute
Proprietaries and Governors in Chief of the Province of Pennsylvania & Counties of Newcastle Kent! and Sussex upon
Delaware To all unto whom these Presents shall conic
Greeting Whereas in and by an Act of General Assembly
of the said Province passed in the twenty fifth year of the
Reign of our late Sovereign Lord the Second Intituled 'An
Act for Erecting the North West part of Bucks into a sepa"

STUART v. EASTON.
Statement of the Case.

rate County' which in and by the said Act is called Northampton and John Jones Thomas Armstrong James Martin
John Rinker and Henry Allshouse or any of them are appointed Trustees to purchase and take Assurance t o them and
their Heirs of a Piece of Land situate in some convenient
Place in the Town of Easton in the said County and thereon
to erect and build a Court House & Prison suM!cient to accommodate the public Service of the said County as by the
said Act appears And whereas in Pursuance of a Warrant
dated the ninth of July 1762 under the Seal of our Land
Office we have at the special Instance & Request of the said
Trustees caused a Lot of Ground situate in the Center of the
said Town of Easton to be laid out for a Court House for the
Public Use and Service of the said County (another Lot of
Ground in the said Town having been heretofore laid out for
a Prison or Common Gaol erected thereon) which said lot in
the Center Square contains in Length North and South eighty
feet and in Breadth East and West eighty feet As by the
said Warrant and Survey of the said Lot remaining in the
Surveyor Generals Office and from thence Certified into our
Secretarys Office more fully appears Now know ye that for
the further Encouragement and better promoting the Public
Benefit and Service of the said Town and County And for
and in Consideration of the yearly Quitrent herein after reserved I and of the Sum of Five Shillings to us in Hand paid
by the said Trustees (The Receipt whereof is hereby 'acknowledged) We have given granted released confirmed &
by these Presents do give grant release and confirm unto the
said Trustees John Jones Thomas Armstrong James Martin
John Rinker and Henry Allshouse and their Heirs the said
Lot of Ground situate in the Center of the Great Square in
the said Town of Easton containing Eighty feet in Length
North & South and eighty feet in breadth East and West
Together with all Ways Waters Watercourses Liberties
Easements Privileges Profits Commodities Advantages and
Appurtenances thereto belonging And the Reversions and
Remainders thereof To have and to hold the said herein
before described Lot of Ground with the Appurtenances unto

OCTOBER TERM1, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

the said John Jones Thomas Armstrong James Martin John
Rinker and Henry Allshouse their Heirs and Assigns for ever
In Trust nevertheless to and for the Erecting thereon a Court
House for the public Use and Service of the said County and
to and for no other Use Intent or Purpos6 whatsoever to be
holden of us our Heirs and Successors Proprietaries of Pennsylvania as of our Manor of Fermor in the County of Northampton aforesaid in free and common Soccage by Fealty only
in Lieu of all other Services Yielding & Paying therefor
yearly unto us, our Heirs and Successors, at the Town of
Easton aforesaid at or upon the first day of March in every
Year from the first day of March next one Red Rose for the
same or 'value thereof in Coin Current according as the Exchange shall then be between our said Province and the City
of London to such Person or Persons as shall from Time to
Time be appointed to receive the same And in Case of Nonypayment thereof within ninety days next after the same shall
become due That then it shall and may be lawful for us our
Heirs and Successors our and I their Receiver or Receivers
into and upon the hereby granted Lot or Piece of Ground
and Premises to Reenter and the same to hold and Possess
until the said Quitrent and all arrears thereof Together with
the Charges accruing by Means of such Nonpayment and
Reentry be fully paid and discharged
"Witness John Penn Esquire Lieutenant Governor of the
said Province who by virtue of certain Powers and Authorities
to him for this Purpose inter alia granted by the said Proprietaries hath hereunto set his Hand and caused the Great
Seal of the said Province to be hereunto affixed at Philadelphia this twenty eighth day of September, in the Year of our
Lord one thousand seven hundred and sixty four The Fourth
year of the Reign of George the Third the King over Great
Brittain &c And Forty seventh Year of the said Proprietaries
Government."
A court house was built upon the property between the years
1763 and 1766 and remained thereon until the year 1862, when
it was removed. No buildings have since been 'placed upon
the ground, but it'was asserted in argument that a public fountain had been erected thereon.

STUART v. EASTON.
Statement of the Case.

By an act of the general assembly of Pennsylvania of date
April 15, 1834, the title of the trustees was vested in the
county of Northampton.
On July 25, 1888, William Stuart, as sole heir of the original grantors, by his duly authorized attorney, made entry
upon the lot in question for a breach of an alleged condition
as to its use, claimed to have been incorporated in the patent
of 1764, and which, it was asserted, revested the land in the
claimant as succeeding to the rights of the original grantors.
Being ousted by the representatives of the county of Northampton and the citizens of Easton, Stuart soon after instituted
an action of ejectment in the United States Circuit Court for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania to recover possession of
the land. At the trial a verdict was directed for the defendant, and the case subsequently came into this court for review,
when the judgment was reversed because of an omission of
the plaintiff to properly plead his alienage. 156. U. S. 46.
Thereafter, William Stuart having died, his son, the present
plaintiff in error, was substituted as plaintiff, and, the pleadings having been amended, a new trial of the action was had
in April, 1895. During the course of the trial counsel for
the plaintiff separately offered in evidence:
1. A certified copy of the deed referred to in the acts of
1752 and 1753, acquiring land on which to erect a prison,
stating that he proposed to follow this by the offer of a subsequent grant to the county by the heirs of Penn of the
reversion of the prison lands. The purpose of the offer was
declared to -be to throw light on the terms of the grant of
land for the court house, and thereby to demonstrate that the
county was estopped from claiming that the grant of such
land by the patent of 1764 was not upon a condition.
2. A deed by Granville John Penn and Richard Penn to
the county of Northampton, dated in 1852, for the reversion in
the prison lot, which was offered for two purposes: first, for the
former purpose of establishing an estoppel upon the county;
and, second, to show grants by Penn of land in the township
of Easton subsequent to the Divesting Act; to be followed by
other deeds made by Penn subsequent to the Divesting Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Counsel for Parties.

The Divesting Act referred to was an act passed November
27, 1779, (1 Smith's Laws, 479,) vesting the title to the Prov
ince of Pennsylvania in the Commonwealth.
3. A deed by John Penn to Peter Schuyler et al., for a lot
in the county of Easton, subsequent to the Divesting Act.
4. A certified copy from the books of the land office, showing that the records of the Department of Internal Affairs of
Pennsylvania contain a number of warrants issued for lots
in the town of Easton, Pennsylvania, and surveys made in
pursuance thereof, and lots granted by the proprietaries of
the Province of Pennsylvania.
5. That no evidence can be found to indicate that any
warrants' were issued, and surveys made or patents granted
by the Comi-onwealth of Pennsylvania for any lots in the
town of Easton, Pennsylvania.
Offers Nos. 3, 4 and 5, it is claimed in argument, were made
to establish that the property in question-was part of 'the
private estate of the Penns, preserved- to them by section 8
of the Divesting Act.
Upon objection that the evidence was irrelevant to the issfie,
it was excluded, and exceptions to such rulings were reserved.
At the close of the testimony for the plaintiff, counsel for
defendant moved the court to direct a verdict for the defendant. This motion was granted, the court instructing the
jury that the deed on its face was a conveyance to trustees
for the use and benefit of the people of Northampton County
in the erection and use of public buildings, and that the land
had not reverted to the grantors by a diversion of the use.
Judgment having been entered in favor of the defendants, the
cause was taken by writ of error to the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, which affirmed the
judgment. 39 U. S. App. 238. A writ of certiorari was subsequently allowed by this court.
Jfr. C. Berkeley Taylor and .Mr,. A. T. Freedley for Stuart.
-Mr. William Brooke Rawle was on their brief.
-Lr. Aaron Goldsmith and Mr. Edward J. Fox for Easton.

STUART v. EASTON.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The errors assigned are misdirection in instructing the jury
to render a verdict for the defendant and wrongful exclusion of
the offered evidence. We at once dismiss the latter assignments from consideration. The evidence offered to aid in the
construction of the patent was clearly incompetent, as the
patent, being a written instrument, its construction and legal
effect were a matter for the court, and, even if an estoppel
had been pleaded, the excluded evidence could not have
estopped the county from asserting that the patent of 1764
had the meaning contended for. As regards the evidence
offered to establish that the rights of the proprietaries, if any,
in the property in question had not been cut off by the
Divesting Act, the evidence, if not cumulative, was clearly
not material, if by the terms of the patent, as we hold to be
the case, no interest in the land granted thereby remained in
the grantors.
.Did t7 trial court improperly direct a verdict for the
defendant ?
This question requires an interpretation of the grant contained in the patent of 1764; and, as the question arising on
such construction relates to the title to real property, we must,
in reaching a conclusion, be guided by the local law of Pennsylvania, the State in which the land is situated.
We premise our examination of the terms of the patent
with the following extract from the opinion delivered by
Kennedy, J., in Ingersoll v. Sergeant, 1 Wharton, 337, 348:
"King Charles the 2nd, in granting the Province of Pennsylvania to William Penn and his heirs, gave it to be held in
free and common socage, and by fealty only, for all services.
And by the seventeenth section thereof, William Penn, his
heirs and assigns had full and absolute power given to them,
at all times thereafter, and forever, to assign, alien, grant,
demise or enfeoff such parts and parcels thereof to such persons
as might be willing to. purchase the same, their heirs and
assigns, in fee simple, fee tail, for term of life, lives or years,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

to be held of the said William Penn, his heirs and assigns as
of the seigniory of Windsor by such services, customs and
rents as should seem. fit, to the said William Penn, his heirs
and assigns, and not immediately of the said King Charles,
his heirs or successors. And, again, by the 18th section, it
was further provided, that the purchasers from William Penn,
his heirs or assigns, should hold such estates as might be
granted to them, either in fee simple, fee tail, or otherwise, as
to the said William Penn, his heirs or assigns, should seem
expedient, the statute of quia emptores, terra'rum in anywise
notwithstanding."
The proper construction of the patent in question is free
from difficulty when construed in connection with the act of
the assembly to which the patent refers. The act of ,1752
constituted the authority of the trustees for acquiring the land
in question, and that authority was to the individuals named
in the act "to purchase and take assurance to them and their
heirs of a piece of land situate in some convenient place in the
said town of Easton, in trust and for the use of the inhabitants
of the said county." The inhabitants of the county of Northampton not being-a corporation, were unable to take a direct
conveyance of the land, but the clear intention of the statute
was that while the legal estate in fee in the land should be
acquired by the trustees, the beneficial use or equitable estate
was to be in the inhabitants of the county. The provision
following the authorization to acquire the land, "and thereon
to erect axd build a court house and prison," was no more
than a direction to the trustees as to the mode of use to be
made of the land after it had been purchased.
The authority to the trustees being to "purchase," adds
force to the clear implication that it was the intention of the
assembly that a title in fee simple should be acquired. When,
therefore, we find a recital in the patent that it is conveyed
upon a named consideration, and the patent expressly refers
to the act of the assembly as the authority from which the
patentees derived .the. power to take and hold the property,
we naturally ififer an intention of the parties on the one hand
to convey, and on the other to receive, just such an estate in

STUART v. EASTON.
Opinion of the Court.

the land as the act contemplated. It is true that the consideration is apparently nominal, but, at common law, in a deed
like the one in question, a pecuniary consideration, however
small, was sufficient to divest the title. Queen v. Porter, 1
Rep. 22, 26; Van Der TVolgen v. Yates, 9 N. Y. 219.
The patent expressly purports to convey the fee, the reservation of an annual quitrent of a red rose being merely a
feudal acknowledgment of tenure, M1larshall v. Conrad, 5
Call, 361, 398, which was in effect annulled by the Revolution and acts of the assembly of Pennsylvania subsequently
passed, declaring, all lands within the Commonwealth to be
held by a title purely allodial. In the premises the grant is
to the trustees by name "and their heirs," while the habendum is to the individuals theretofore referred to as the trustees,
"their heirs and assigns forever. In trust, nevertheless, to
and for the erecting-thereon a court house for the public use
and service of the said county, and to and for no other use,
intent or purpose whatsoever." This last clause, it is claimed,
qualifies the prior grant of an estate in fee, and limits the
duration of the estate in the land to the period while the land
was used as the site of a court house. But, it will be remembered, that the act of 1752 authorized the acquisition of
a lot upon which the trustees were directed to build a court
house and yrison, and the act of 1753 recited that the amount
authorized by the act of 1752 to be expended for a court house
and prison had already been expended for building a prison,
and authority was given to assess and levy a further sum for
the erection of a court house. The patent of 1764 recited the
fact that another lot of ground had been laid out for a prison
site, and it may be well in reason considered that had the act
of 1752 authorized solely the erection of a court house instead
of a court house and prison, that the clause to which we have
referred would have simply recited that the patentees were to
hold the land for the uses and purposes mentioned in the act
of the assembly. In the condition in which matters stood,
however, the recital that the land was to be held in trust for
the object stated may well be treated as having been inserted
with 'the intent of showing that the grant related alone to one

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

of the purposes covered by the law, the court house, and not
to both -therein expressed; that is, the prison and the court
house. Be it as it may, however, under the facts disclosed by
the record, the decisions of the courts of Pennsylvania leave
no doubt that the clause in question, cannot be construed as
anything more than a recognition of the trust previously
created by the act of the general assembly, and that it
amounted simply to conforming the grant to the legislative
authority previously given, and that it cannot be deemed to
have imported a limitation of the fee. Thus in Siegel v. Lauer,
148 Penn. "St.236, whilst it was held that the grant there considered, though absolute in terms, merely conveyed a fee on
limitation, because the purpose expressed in the grant was not
one for whiqh counties usually acquired a fee simple in lands,
the court reviewed the cases of .Kerlin v. Campbell, 15 Penn.
St, 500; Griffitts v. Cope, 17 Penn. St. 96; Brendle v. German Reformed Congregation,33 Penn. St. 415, and Seebol4 v.
Shitler, 34 Penn. St. 133, and declared the doctrine established
by those cases to be that where a conveyance purporting to be
in fee is' made to public trustees or commissioners, religious
societies, etc., for the particular purpose for which the grantees
could lawfully hold real estate, such declaration could not be
construed as qualifying a prior grant of the fee. The court
said (p. 241):
"Of course, the mere expression of a purpose will not of
and by itself debase a fee. Thus, a grant in fee simple to
county commissioners of land ' for the use of the inhabitants
of 'the Delaware County to accommodate the public service of
the-county,' was held not to create a base fee: K'erlin v.
Campbell, 15 Penn. St. 500; as also a grant to county commissioners and their successors in office of a tract of land with
a brick court house thereon erected, 'in trust for the use of
said county, in fee simple,' the statute under which the purchase was made authorizing the acquisition of the property
for the purpose of a court house, jail and offices for the safe
keeping of the records- Seebold v. Shitler,'34 Penn. St. 133.
Similarly a devise of land to a religious body in, fee 'there to
build a meeting house upon,' etc., was held to pass an unquali-

STUART v. EASTON.
0inion of the Court.

fled estate: Griffitts v. Cope, 17 Penn. St. 96; as was also a
grant to a congregation 'for the benefit, use and behoof of
the poor of said . . . congregation, . . . forever, and
for a place to erect a house of religious worship, for the use
and service of said congregation, and if occasion shall require,
a place to bury their dead:' Brendle v. German 1?ajyormed
Congregation, 33 Penn. St. 415.
"It is apparent in all the cases cited that the purposes for
which the grants were made were really all the purposes for
which the grantees could lawfully hold real estate. Unless,
therefore, the absurd position be assumed that a corporation
can, in no event take afee simple absolute, because its power
to hold land is limited to the uses for which it is authorized
to acquire and employ it, a declaration, in the grant, that it
is conveyed for those uses cannot be deemed to import a limitation of the fee. ]i'xpressio eorum quex tacite .insunt nihil
operatur. Such a declaration can amount to no more than an
explicit assertion of the intended legality of the grant."
The case at bar is precisely analogous in its main features
to the facts which were under consideration in Kerlin v.
Campbell, supra, the only difference being that in the case
just cited, instead of the purpose for which the land was to
be held being specified in the grant, a declaration of trust was
made in a separate instrument. The facts in the .Kerlin case
were as follows: Certain public buildings had been erected on
land and the land with the erections was sold to a private
individual. Subsequently, five named individuals, or any
three of them, were authorized by statute "to take conveyances and assurances to them, and their heirs, of the said old
court house, and of the prison and workhouse, in the said
borough of Chester, with the lots of ground thereunto belonging, in trust, and for the use of the inhabitants of the said
county of Delaware, to accommodate the public service of the
said county." A deed was made in pursuance of this act to
the individuals named " and to their heirs and assigns" for an
expressed consideration, "to have and to hold the same to
them, their heirs and assigns forever." A declaration of
trust was made contemporaneously with the deed, reciting

396

OCTOBER TERMI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

that the latter instrument had been made or was intended
to be "in trust and for the use of the inhabitants of the said
county of Delaware, to accommodate the public service of the
said county, according to the true intent and meaning of the
said recited act of assembly ; "-and also declaring that the interes held in the land and buildings was "only to and for
the uses and services hereinbefore mentioned, expressed and
declared, and to and for no other use, interest or purpose
whatsoever." A part of the lot and the workhouse building
thereon having been §ubsequently sold to a private individual
under .authority of an act of assembly, the heirs of the original
grantor brought ejectment t6 recover possession, upon the
ground that the property was granted for a grossly inadequate
consideration, if the unrestricted fMe was conveyed, and that
the deed to the individuals named in the original act and the
declaration of trust by them executed was but a single transaction and constituted a conveyance to the parties named, in
trust-to and for the use of the inhabitanfs of the county of
Delaware, to accommodate the public service of the said
county; according to the true intent and meaning of the act
of assembly, and to-no other use, intent or purpose whatsoever,
and that the estate which the trustees took was a base or determinable fee; in other words, an interest which might continue
forever, but was liable to be'deterpnined, without the aid of a
conveyance, by some act or eveyit circumscribing its continuance or extent. Onthe part-of the defendants in error it was
contended.that the transaction was a purchase, and not a trust.
The court said (p. 506):
"The doctrine of charitable uses is inapplicable to a question
like the present. Had the ancestor of the plaintiffs conveyed
the property as a gratuity to be used in a particular way, he
might have had a plausible case on the cdssation of the user;
but he conveyed it for its value, by an absolute deed, to persons
who executed a declaration of trust, not for his benefit, but to
vest the equitable ownership in the county. After that, it is
impossible to conceive-of a dormant interest in him. The two
deeds, though 'executed at the same time, were as diverse as if
the latter were a conveyance of the legal title to a stranger,

STUART v. EASTON.
Opinion of the Court.

with whom the grantor in the first could not be in privity.
There could be no resulting trust, for every part and particle
of the grantor's estate, legal or equitable, present oi prospective, had passed from, him and was paid for. Nor was the
estate granted a base fee. It was-unclogged with conditions
or limitations. The ancestor received a full consideration for
it; and the plaintiffs cannot rescind the bargain."
We think the two cases are not distinguishable in principle.
The purpose of the grant by the patent of 1764 of the lot in
the centre of the public square at Easton, in conformity to the
clear intent of the act of 1752, was undoubtedly to vest an
equitable estate in the land in the inhabitants of the county,
the trust in their favor being executed so soon as the county
became capable of holding the title. While the proprietaries
may have been mainly influenced in making the grant by a
desire to advance the interests of the town, or were actuated
by motives of charity, yet the transaction was not a mere gift,
but was upon a valuable consideration, and it was the evident
intention of the grantors to convey all their estate or interest
in the land for the benefit of the county. The declaration in
the patent of the purposes for which the land was to be held,
conjoined as it was with a reference to the act of the assembly
wherein the trust was created, could not have the effect of
qualifying the grant of the fee simple, any more than if the
declaration of the purposes for which the land was to be held
had been omitted and a declaration of the trust made in an
independent instrument.
*If the grant be viewed as one merely to trustees to hold
"for the uses and purposes mentioned in the act of the assembly," it is clear that the fee was not upon a condition subsequent nor one upon limitation. There are no apt, technical
words (such as so that; provided; if it shall happen; etc.,
4 Kent Com. note b, p. 132; 2 Washburn on Real Property,
p. 3) contained in the grant, nor is the declaration of the use
coupled with any clause of reentry or a provision that the
estate conveyed should cease or be void on any contingency.
(Ib.) So, also, we fail to find in the patent the usual and apt
words to create a limitation (such as while; so long as; ua-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

til; during; &c., 4 Kent, Ib.), or words of similar import.
And, for reasons already stated, if we disregard the absence of
technical terms or provisions importing a condition or limita.
tion, and examine the deed with a view of eliciting the clear
intention of the parties, we are driven to the conclusion that it
was the intention of the grantors to convey their entire estate
in the land.
The cases mainly relied upon as supporting the claim of the
plaintiff in error that by the patent an estate was conveyed
which was. "to be commensurate in duration with the purpose
to be answered by it," clearly present no analogy in their facts
to the case at bar. Thus, in Kirk v. King, 3 Penn. St. 436,
438, the material part of the conveyance reads as follows:
"Know all men by these presents, that I, Thomas McElroy,
of Plum township, in the county of Allegheny, for and in consideration of the sum of 50 cents to me in hand paid, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, have granted, bargained
and sold, and by these presents do grant, bargain and sell, to
the employers of the school at Plum Creek meeting house that
lot of land, beginning [describing it], to have and to hold said
lot for an English school house and no other purpose, for me,
my heirs, and assigns, to them who are now, or may hereafter
be the employers of said school, to have and to hold the same
forever for said purpose.
"Witness my hand and seal,". etc.
It will be noticed that the deed did not contain words of inheritance or expressly purport to convey a fee simple; and in
Wight v. Zinn, 9 Penn. St. 433, the decision in Jfirk v. King
was construed to hold that "The legal title remained in the
original owner, the ' school company' having but an equity,
which was thought to be dependent on the agreement to use
the ground ' for an English school house and for no other purpose.'" In other words, the deed was construed as making
the substantial consideration of the grant the erection of the
school house, and as though the land was conveyed, in terms,
to the grantees, to-have and to hold the same so long as they
used it for an English school house. And the court in the
Wright case, while-questioning the correctness of the holding

STUART v. EASTON.
Opinion 6f the Court.

in the Kirl case, that the deed there considered did not
establish a trust for a charitable use, not liable to be defeated
by non user, said (p. 438):
"It has long been held, that money given to build or repair
a church, is given to a. charitable use; and surely it must be
agreed that land given as the site of a public school house,
primafacie, stands in the same category. It may be otherwise where the object in the contemplation of the party is
ephemeral, and the subject sought to be promoted is intended
to be of temporary duration. This is the point on which Kirk
v. King was made to turn; and, where such is the case, perhaps the grant may be taken as on an implied condition of
reverter, as soon as the temporary object is accomplished.
But such a condition should either expressly appear or be
unerringly indicated 'by the circumstances attendant on the
gift."
The object to be attained by the grant in the case at bar
was, however, not ephemeral in its character, the assurance
being expressly to the trustees and their heirs and assigns
forever; while the attendant circumstances we have heretofore alluded to rebut any inference of an implied reverter.
Scleetz v. Fitzwater, 5 Penn. St. 126, also relied on, was
the case of a conveyance "of a certain mill dam or pond of
water, and mill race or stream of water, issuing and proceeding from said mill dam or pond of water, as the same is now
situate, and being in and upon a certain tract or parcel of
land situate in the manor of Springfield, together also with
the site and soil of the said milJ pond or-dam of water and
race of water, and also one perch of land on each and every
side of the said pond, or dam and race of water, to and for
the use and service of a certain mill, with the land thereto
belonging, and for no other use whatsoever." The deed did
not contain words of inheritance or expressly grant a fee
simple. The grant was of the mill dam; etc., and, in the
same sentence, the qualification was attached that it was for
a partictrlar use only, that is, "for the use and service of a
certain mill; with the land thereto belonging."
The mill pond having been drained and converted into a

OCTOBER TER-M, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

meadow, the claim was made that there had been a diversion
from the purposes of the grant, and an action was commenced
for the taking of grass from the site of the mill pond. The
trial judge held that a fee simple estate in the land had not
been conveyed, but that it was the intention of the grantor
to only convey a qualified interest in the land or limited fee,
and to retain a reversionary interest, and that the estate in
the grantee determined on the abandonment of the use and
service for which the conveyance had been made as stated in
the deed. The appellate court held this construction to be
.correct.
First Methodist Eiscopal Church v. Old Columbia Public
Ground Co., 103 Penn. St. 608, is relied upon as sustaining
the proposition that where a deed refers to a certain mode of
user of the land conveyed, coupled with words such as "and
for no other use," a conditional estate is granted. The decision, however, does not justify this broad statement. The
action was ejectment. One Wright had covenanted under
seal to convey certain property to named parties, their heirs
or assigns, in fee simple, clear of all incumbrances, in trust
for the sole use of a company which might thereafter be
formed for the purpose of bringing a supply of water into the
borough of Columbia, the grantees covenanting to give, grant
and assure unto Wright, his heirs and assigns, when a reservoir should be erected, "the privilege of erecting a hydrant
at said reservoir at his own expense and for his own use, and
shall have a supply of water therefrom sufficient to water his
cattle or stock or for the use of a family at all times when the
same is in repair or water sufficient therein." A deed was
subsequently made to the water company, and that corporation constructed a reservoir on the land, but subsequently
abandoned the same, filled up the reservoir and sold the land,
and the purchaser erected a chapel thereon. Ejectment was
brought by the grantees of the heirs of Wright to recover
possession of the land. The trial judge held that under the
agreement first referred to the grantees took a base or qualified fee only, and when they and their vendees ceased to use
the land for a r'-servoir it reverted to Wright or his heirs.

STUART v. EASTON.
Opinion of the Court.

The appellate court, however, held that a conditional estate
had not been created by the deed, and discussed the effect of
the grant solely as to whether an estate upon condition subsequent was.created. After reviewing various authorities holding that a mere recital in a deed that it was made upon a
certain consideration, while it might create a covenant, would
not raise a condition, the court-said (p. 614):
"Whatever words are relied on as creating a condition
must not only be such as of themselves would create a condition, but must be so connected with the grant as to qualify or
restrain it. Labaree v. Carleton, 53 Maine, 211. It was said
by Mr. Chief Justice Bigelow in Packardet al. v. Ames et al.
16 Gray, 327: 'We know of no authority by .which a grant
declared to be for a special purpose, without other words, can
be held to be a condition. On the contrary, it has always
been held that such a grant does not convey a conditional
estate unless coupled with a clause for the payment of money
or the doing of some act by the grantee on which the grant
is clearly made to depend.' To make the estate conditional
the words must clearly show such 'intent. Cook v- Trimble,
9 Watts, 15.
"Turning to the writing executed by Wright, we see that
he absolutely and unconditionally covenanted to convey the
premises in fee simple clear of all incumbrances to the
vendees, their heirs, or assigns, whenever requested by them.
No restraint was imposed on an alienation of the land. No
construction of a reservoir, nor any work on the ground, was
required to precede the right to demand a deed. No clause
provided for a forfeiture or termination of the estate, in case
No 'right of reentry
the land ceased to be used as a reservoir. N
was reserved by the grantor on any contingency. No technical word to create a condition was used. No other words
were used, equivalent thereto or proper to create a condition.
The authorities show that the recital of the consideration and
a statement of the purpose for which the land is to be used
are wholly insufficient to create a conditional estate."
At page 613 of the opinion, it is true, the cases of Kirk v.
King and Scheetz v. Fitzwater are referred to as though the
VOL. cLxx-26

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

grants considered in those cases were of estates upon condition subsequent, and as illustrating the proposition that words
clearly equivalent to the technical words usually employed to
create a condition would be sufficient. Weight was attached
to the circumstance that the grants in those cases were expressed to be for a particular n'amed use, "and no other purpose;" but it is manifest that importance was attached not
alone to the emphatic statement of the particular use expressed, but to that language coupled with the other provisions of the grant.
But, manifestly, under the authorities referred to in the
Segel case which'we have above cited, the declaration of the
purposes contained in the patent under consideration had not
the effect of qualifying or limitifig the estate in fee expressly
granted to the trustees for the benefit of the inhabitants of
the county, and which has since become vested, by act of the
legislature, in the county of Northampton. Without, however, positively determining whether the estate in the county
is held charged with a trust for a charitable use, or is an
unrestficted fee simple on the theory that the trustees were
merely the link for passing the title 'authorized by the act of
1,752, Brendle v. German Reformed Congregation,33 Penn. St.
415, 425, we hold that' the trial court did not err in directing a verdict for the defendant, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals must therefore be
4/firmed.
in the result.
concurred
BRoWx
MR. JusTicE

JOLLY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Xo. 23S. Submitted'April 28, 189.-Decided May 9, 1S99.

Postage stamps belonging to the United States are personal proper'y, within
the meaning of Rev. Si. t. § .5456. which enacts that "Every person who
robs another of any kind or de,cription of personal property belong-

