OCTOBER TER-I, 1897.
Syllabus.

state production, such a scheme might not be open to objections on Federal grounds. But where a State proposes to
create a monopoly in articles which its own legislation recognizes as proper subjects of manufacture, sale and use, and
where those articles are a part of international and Interstate
Commerce, it is, I submit, too plain to call for argument that
such an attempt does not comport with that freedom of trade
and commerce, to preserve which is one of the most important
purposes, of our Federal system.
If these views are sound, then the acts of South Carolina in
question, in so far as they seek to prevent citizens of that
State from importing for their own use wines and liquors, and
to arbitrarily forbid, and not by reasonable regulations, control sales of such articles when imported, are void as an unconstitutional interference with Interstate Commerce.
I think the decree of the Circuit Court should be affirmed.
I am authorized to state that the CIIEF JUSTWCE and Mi.
concur in the views of this opinion.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT'COURT OF THE

UNITED

ST&TES

(No. 2).
FOR THE

DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 515. Argued March 9, 10, 1698. - Defided May 9, 1898.

In determining from the face of a pleading whether the amount really In
dispute is sufficient to confer jurisdiction upon a court of the United
States, it is settled that if from the nature of the case as stated in the
pleadings there could not legally be a judgment for an amount necessary
to the jurisdiction, jurisdiction cannot attach even though the damages
be laid in the declaration at a larger sum.
The courts of South Carolina having held that in an action of trover consequential damages are not recoverable, and the damage claimed by the
plaintiff below, in this case, omitting the consequential damages, being
less than the sum necessary to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction of it,
it follows that, on the face of the complaint, that court was withoit
jurisdiction over the action.

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 2).

469

Statement of the Case.

THE appellee, a corporation of the State of California, began
this action against the present plaintiffs in error, citizens of
the State of South Carolina, averring the alleged wrongful
seizure by. the defendants Bahr and Scott, at a railroad depot
in the city of Charleston, South Carolina, of packages of wines
and brandies, the property of -the plaintiff. It was averred
that at the time of the seizure the liquors were in the custody
of a common carrier, under a shipment from San Francisco to
the agent of the plaintiff at Charleston, who was to make
delivery of each package to a particular individual, who, prior
to the shipment, had given an order for the same. Averring
that the defendant Vance had subsequently to the seizure,
and with knowledge of its wrongful nature, received said
packages into his custody, it was further alleged that demand
had been made for the return of the property seized, that
it was still detained, and that plaintiff was entitled to the
immediate possession thereof. Judgment was prayed against
the defendants for the recovery of possession of the packages or their value, alleged to be one thousand dollars, in
case delivery could not be had, and for damages in the
sum of ten thousand dollars. There was an allegation of
special damage, to wit: "That by said malicious trespass of
said defendants and their continuation in the wrongful detention of said sixty-eight packages of wine the plaintiff has been
greatly injured in its lawful trade and business with the
citizens and residents of the State of South Carolina to its
great hurt and damage in the breaking up of such trade and
coinmerce." Itemized lists of the packages were attached as
exhibits to the complaint.
It was also alleged that the defendants claimed that the
acts by them done were performed under the authority of a
law of South Carolina designated as the dispensary law,.and
it was charged that the statute was void, because in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States. It was moreover
averred that the forcible seizure and carrying away of the
packages and the detention thereof were done "knowingly,
wrongfully, wilfully and maliciously, with intent to oppress
and humiliate and intimidate this plaintiff, and make.it afraid

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

to rely upon the Constitution and laws of the United States,
and the judicial power thereof, for its protection in those
rights, privileges and immunities secured to the plaintiff by
the Constitution and laws of the United States." Itwas also
alleged that the defendants, by "the said malicious trespass
and wrongful detainer," intended to deter and intimidate
plaintiff and others from asserting their rights under the
Constitution of the United States.
S. W. Vance filed a separate answer, while Bahr and Scott
jointly answered. The respective answers set up that the
court had no jurisdiction of the action; that the complaint did
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; that
by the provisions of the dispensary law of South Carolina,
approved March 6, 1896, the action could not be maintained
against the defendants, for the reason that the acts complained
of were by them performed in the discharge of duties imposed
upon the defendants by the said law; and, if the action was
maintainable, that there was a misjoinder of causes of action,
in that the plaintiff sued for the recovery of the possession of
personal property, and also for exemplary damages for the
commission of a trespass in taking the same. It was denied
that the seizures and detentions complained of were made
with the intent to injure or oppress the complainant, and it
was also denied that the property was of the value alleged in
the complaint, or that the plaintiff had been damaged in the
sum claimed. It was, further, specially averred that the packages were seized and detained because the liquors contained
therein had not been inspected as required by the provision of
an amendment to the dispensary law, adopted in 1897, and
because of a failure to have attached to each package a certificate of inspection, as required by the statute.
By a stipulation in writing it was agreed that the issues of
fact should be tried by the court without a jury. At the trial,
as appears by a bill of exceptions allowed by the presiding
judge, the court, on the request of counsel for the defendants,
passed upon the matters of law heretofore referred to and also
upon several propositions of law relied on by the defendants,
that is, that the dispensary law was not in conflict with the

VANCE v. W. A- VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 2).

471

Opinion of the Court.

Constitution of the United States and was a valid exercise of
the police power of the State, particularly by reason of the
provisions of the act of Congre~s of 1890, known as the Wilson
act. Each of these propositions of law was decided adversely
to the defendants, and an exception was noted.
The facts found by the court were: "That the property
described in the complaint is the property of the plaintiff, and
that the value thereof is the sum of one thousand dollars, and
that the damages to the plaintiff from the detention of the
said property by the defendants is the sum of one thousand
dollars." And, as matter of law, the court found "That the
plaintiff is entitled to judgment against the defendants for the
recovery of the possession of the said property described in
the complaint, or the sum of one thousand dollars - value of
said property -in case delivery thereof cannot be had, and
for the further sum of one thousand dollars damages." Judgment was entered in conformity with the findings. A writ of
error having been allowed, the cause was brought to this court
for review.
-Mr. Willianz A. Barker, Attorney General of the State of
South Carolina, for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. J.. P. Kennedy Bryan for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTME WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
Counsel for plaintiffs in error discuss in their brief the contentions that the Circuit Court erred in holding that it had
jurisdiction of the action and that there was not a misjoinder
of causes of action, and also assert that the court erred in refusing to hold that the dispensary law of South Carolina was a
valid enactment.
We shall dispose of the case upon the jurisdictional question, as it is manifest that the amount of recovery to which
the plaintiff was entitled, upon the construction put upon the
complaint by its counsel and acted upon by the trial court,
could not equal the sum of two thousand dollars.

OCTOBER TERIK, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

In his brief, counsel for defendant in error says:
"It is clear that the complaint is a case for recovery of
personal property and for damages for its detenmion. The
allegations in the complaint as to the wrongful taking of
the property are not by way of stating a cause of action for
malicious trespass, but, under the law of the State of South
Carolina, are necessary as allegations of wrongful seizure,
wrongful taking, and support an action for recovery of personal property and damages for detention, without a previous
demand before the suit, and the court, by its judgment, so
construed the complaint and gave judgment in conformity to
the code.
"The Circuit Judge has trcated the complaint as an ordinary
action for recovery of personal property and for damages for
its detention, and has found the title of the property in the
plaintiff, and has found the damagesfor detention. He has
found no other damages, he has found no damages for malicious taking, he has found no damages for malicious trespass,
he has found only ' damages for detention.' And those daumages, as matter of fact, were testified to as being at least twelve
hundred dollars. The Circuit Judge has found them to be one
thousand dollars, and they are conclusive as matters of fact,
and are the usual damages accompanying the successful plaintiff who recovers judgment against the defendants for recovery of possession of personal property and damages incident
to wrongful detention. The defendants, therefore, have no
possible cause of complaint."
In determining from the face of a pleading whether the
amount really in dispute is sufficient to confer jurisdiction
upon a court of the United States, it is settled that if from
the nature of the case as stated in the plead;ngs there could
not legally be a judgment for an amount necessary to the
jurisdiction, jurisdiction cannot attach even though the (lamages be laid in the declaration at a larger sum. Barry v.
Edmnunds, 116 U. S. 550, 560; Wilson v. Daniel, 3 Dall.
401, 407.
As 15y section 914 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States 'the practice, pleadings and forms and modes of pro-

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 2).

473

Opinion of the Court.

ceedings in actions at common law in a Circuit Court of the
United States are required to conform, as near as may be, to
those prevailing in the state court, and as by section 721 the
laws of the several States are made rules of decision in trials
at common law in the courts of the United States, in cases
where they apply, Ba.userman v. Blunt, 147. U. S. 647, we
will examine the laws of South Carolina and the decisions of
its courts, in order to ascertain the nature of the state statutory action to recover possession of personal property, and the
rights of the parties thereunder.
The action of claim and delivery of personal property,
under the code of South Carolina, is one of the class of
statutes referred to by Judge Cooley, in his treatise on Torts,
(note 2, p. 442,) which perthits the plaintiff in an action of
replevin to proceed in it as in trover, and recover the value
of the property in case the officer fails to find it to return to
the plaintiff on the writ. The proceeding was introduced
into the legislation of South Carolina by the code of procedure adopted in 1870, Title 8, c. 1, 14 Stats. S. C. 423, which
provided in section 269 (p. 480) that, upon the making of an
affidavit containing certain requisites and the giving of a
bond, the plaintiff might obtain an immediate delivery of the
property. By section 285, c. 3, (p. 484) it is provided that
"In an action for the recovery of specific personal property,
if the property have not been delivered to the plaintiff, or if
it have, and the defendant by his answer claim a return thereof,
the jury shall assess the value of the property, if their verdict
be in favor of the plaintiff; or if they find in favor of the
defendant, and that lie is entitled to a return thereof; and
may at the same time assess the damages, if any are claimed
in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has
sustained by reason of the detention or taking and withholding such property." In section 301, c. 6, (p. 488) it isprovided: "In an action to recover the possession of personal
property, judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession,
or for the recovery of possession, or the value thereof, in case
a delivery cannot be had, and of damages for the detention."
By section 300 it is provided that, "Whenever damages are

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

recoverable, the plaintiff may claim and recover, if he show
himself entitled thereto, any rate of damages which he might
have heretofore recovered for the same cause of action."
Prior to the code, by a statute passed December 19, 1827,
No. 2433, entitled "An act to alter the law in relation to the
action of trover and for other purposes," 6 S. C. Stats. 337, it
was provided that upon the giving of a bond and the making
of an affidavit by a plaintiff who intended to commence an
action of trover for the conversion of any specific chattel,
that the chattel belonged to the plaintiff and had been converted by the defendant, an order might issue requiring the
defendant to enter into a bond with sufficient surety, for the
production of the chattel to satisfy the plaintiff's judgment in
case he should recover against the defendant or defendants,
and it was declared that such specific chattel should be liable
to satisfy the plaintiff's judgment to the exclusion of other
creditors.
Under this act the surety might take the body
of the defendant and keep him in custody until he gave the
required security. Poole v. Vernon, 2 Hill, 667.
The measure of damages in South Carolina in an action of
trover was early settled in that State. Thus, in 1792, in the
case of Bi~ford v. Fannen, 1 Bay, 270, an action of trover to
recover the value of several negroes and a horse, after proving
the value of the horse, the plaintiff offered evidence of consequential damages sustained by the loss of his crop. The trial
judge having refused to receive the evidence, the case came
before the Superior Court on a motion for a new trial. Chief
Justice Rutledge was of opinion that this kind of testimony
might be allowed in some cases, and was for granting a new
trial, but the court ruled otherwise, the following opinions
being delivered (p. 273):
Waties, J. "It is of great importance to keep different
issues distinct, that the parties in one form of action, may not
be surprised by evidence which belongs to another. The evidence which the plaintiff wished to produce, would have been
admissible in trespass; but was, I think, properly rejected in
this action. Where there has been an unlawful taking, either
trespass or trover will lie , but if the party proceeds in trover,

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 2).

475

Opinion of the Court.

he waives the-tort, except as it is evidence of a conversion,
and can only have damages for the value of the property converted, and the use of it while in the defendant's possession.
The real value of the property is not always the sole measure
of damages; if the conversion of it is (or may reasonably be
supposed to be) productive of any benefit to the defendant,
the jury may give additional damages for it; as where trover
is brought for money in a bag, interest ought to be allowed
by way of damages for the detention; so, in this case, if the
negroes had not been delivered, damages could be given for
the labor of the negroes; for the use of money or negroes is a
certain benefit to the party who converts them, and he ought
to pay for it. But where he acquires no gain to himself by
the conversion, it does not appear to me that he is answerable
for any damages above the real value of the thing converted;
if he was, he would be answering for a mere delictum, for
which he is not liable in trover. By waiving the trespass in
this action, which the plaintiff must do, he waives, I conceive,
every kind of personal wrong which is unattended with any
gain to the trespasser; he releases him from everything which
death would release him from. If, for instance, the defendant had been dead at the time of bringing this suit, what could
the plaintiff, in any form of action, have recovered from his
executors? The same amount which he has now recovered
and no more, that is the value of the horse taken. Or damages for the use of the negroes, while they were in the defendant's possession ; but nothing for the loss of crop, which
proceeded ex delicto, and produced no benefit to the defendant.
For the same reason, as this action is founded in property
only, and no damages can be allowed for the mere delictum,
I think the evidence offered was not admissible, and that the
judge was right in refusing it.
"Bay, J., thought, that as in an action of trover, the tort was
waived, all its consequences were relinquished with it. The
very nature of the action supposed that the defendant came
lawfully into possession; and, it so, no damages could or
ought to be given till the true owner made his demand;
from which time only, damages ought to be-calculated. And

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

where no specific demand was proved, then from the time of
the commencement of the action; and relied on the case of
Cooper et al v. Chitty et al., 1 Burr. 31, where the nature
of this action is particularly defined; also 3 Burr. 1364-65;
2 Esp. 353."
In 1818, in the case of Banks v. flatton, 1 N. & McC. 221,
an action of trover to recover the value of three negroes, a
verdict having been rendered for the plaintiff, a new trial was
asked for, among other grounds, because the damages were
excessive. In the course of the opinion of the appellate court
granting the motion, Mr. Justice Colcock said on this branch
of the case (p. 222):
"It is stated, that the presiding judge instructed the jury,
that they were at liberty to give ' smart money' in estimating
the damages. In the action of trover, the correct measure of
damages is the value of the property, and interest thereon;
or if the action be for the conversion of negroes, the value of
their labor, in addition to the value of the negroes. It is
impossible to determine by what rule the jury have been
governed; but from the amount of the verdict, it is highly
probable, that they were influenced by the charge of the presiding judge, and I therefore think the defendant entitled
to a new trial on this ground."
On a subsequent appeal from the new trial granted in the
case, Mr. Justice Kott, with whom four justices concurred, said
(Ib.
p. 223):
"Damages for the detention, may be given according to the
nature of the thing converted or detained ; as for instance, for
the use of money, the interest may be made the measure of
damages, or the value of their labor, in the case of negroes.
Bford v. Fyannen, 1 Bay, 270. Somietimes the increased
value may be added, as was decided in the case of Kid and
Mitchell, in this court (post). The defendant is not to be
benefited by his own wrong. Neither can the rights of the
plaintiff be affected by the death of the destroyer of the
property after demand and refusal."
In .McDowell v.'Ulurdock, 1 N. & MAIcO. 237, an action of
trover for the value of two negroes, Mr. Justice Nott, in deliv

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 2).

477

Opinion of the Court.

ering the opinion of the court, held that the defendant was
entitled to a new trial, because, among other grounds, of an
erroneous instruction to the jury as to the rule of damages,
said (p. 240):
"It has lately been determined by this court, in several
cases, that a jury cannot give vindictive damages in an action
of trover. The value of the property, with such damages as
must necessarily be supposed to flow from the conversion, is
the only true measure. Such, for instance, as the work and
labor of negroes; interest on the value of dead property, etc."
In 1853, in Harley v. Platts, 6 Richardson, 310, an action of
trover brought to recover the value of four slaves, a new trial
asked for on the ground of excessive damages was refused, it
being held that the verdict was warranted by the evidence,
under the rule allowing the jury to give the highest value up
to the time of trial, with interest, or hire. Glover, J., delivering the opinion of the court, said (p. 318):
"In trover, the jury is not limited to finding the mere value
of the property at the time of conversion; but may find, as
damages, the value at a subsequent time, at their discretion.
3 Steph. N. P. 2711. The jury may give the highest value
up to the time of trial. Ifiid v. Mitchell, 1 N. & McC. 334.
In Burney v. Pledger, 3 Rich. 191, Judge O'Neall says,
'That the plaintiff is entitled to recover for the valht of the
property at the time of the trial, with interest; or for the
value of the property at the time of the trial, with hire from
the conversion, as may be most beneficial.' And in Rodgers
v. Randall, 2 Sp. 38, it was held that the jury have a discretion between the highest and lowest estimates.
"Governed by these rules, so long and so repeatedly established, the evidence appears to have authorized the conclusion
attained by the jury in this case."
That the decisions referred to are applicable under the code
was recognized in the case of Sullivan v. Sullivan, (1883) 20
S. C. 509, an action of claim and delivery to recover the possession of certain notes with damages for their detention,
where it was held by the appellate court that, in addition to
a recovery of the notes, the plaintiff was entitled to recovey

OCTOBER TERNIf, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the amount they had diminished in value while in the hands
of defendant. After quoting section 298 (formerly section
300) of the code, which we have heretofore referred to, the
court said (p. 512):
"The code has made no material changes in the primary
rights of parties, or in the causes of action, nor has it given
any new redress for wrongs perpetrated. It has only changed
the mode by which such redress is reached and applied. The
rights and remedies (using the term 'remedy ' in the sense of
'redress') are still the same.
"The action below was an action for the recovery of
personal property and damages for its detention. It was an
action in the nature of the old action of trover. It will not
be denied that in actions of that kind, under the former practice, (as a general rule,) damages for detention beyond the
property itself could be, and were uniformly recovered, such
damages being measured by different rules, according to the
character of the property and the circumstances of each case.
See case of lleoDowell v. iurdock, 1 'ott & 'McCord, 237,
where the court said: I It has lately been determined by this
court, in several cases, that a jury cannot give vindictive
damages in an action of trover. The value of the property,
with such damages as must necessarily be supposed to flow
from the conversion, is the true measure. Such, for instance,
as the work and labor of negroes; interest on the value of dead
property.' &uford v. Pannen, 1 Bay, 2d ed. 273; Efarley v.
Plaits, 6 Rich. 318; Kid v. Atitchell, 1 Nott & McOord, 334."
A recent decision construing the provisions of the action of
claim nd delivery of personal property is Zoeb v. X[ann, 39
S. 0. 465, in which the defendant, a sheriff, was alleged to
have wrongfully and unlawfully taken from the plaintiffs and
to have unjustly detained from them certain liquors. Bond
having been given, the goods were taken frcm the possession
of the defendants and delivered to the plaintiffs. The appe
late court, in the course of its opinion, held that the trial
judge erred in permitting evidence of expenditures by the
plaintiffs fof hotel bills, railroad fare and attorney's fees, and

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 2).

479

Opinion of the Court.

declared that such damages were not recoverable for the
detention of the property. The court said (p. 469):
"It is urged that this action of 'claim and delivery' is
peculiar in this, that the law expressly gives to the prevailing
party damages in addition to costs and disbursements. It is
true that section .283 of the code provides as follows:
"' In al action for the recovery of specific personal property, if the property have not been delivered to the plaintiff,
or if it have, and the defendant by his answer claims a return
thereof, the jury shall assess the value of the property, if
their verdict be in favor of the plaintiff, or if they find in
favor of the defendant, and that he is entitled to a return
thereof; may at'the same time assess the damages, if any are
claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing
party has sustained by reason of the detention or taking and
Why,
withholding such property,' etc. What damages?
surely such damages as 'may have been sustained by reason
of the seizure and detention of the property itself ; that is to
say, by direct and proximate injury of the property in question, or in. reducing its value; and not for the purpose of
allowing a party to reimburse himself as to consequential
losses alleged to have been sustained in the prosecution of
the case, in respect to the speculative value of time lost, and
the payment of the bills of railroads and hotels, lawyers'
fees,' etc."
After reviewing authorities in support of the proposition
that counsel fees were not allowable as damages for the detention of property, for the reason- that they could not be
said to be the nece8sar'y result of the act done by the defendant, the court said (p. 471):
"It is true that the decided cases tlo not seem to be as
full and clear in reference to the other items of expenditures
claimed here as damages; but we confess that in respect to
damages, we are unable to draw a distinction in principle
between expenses incurred in paying. lawyers' fees and in
making a charge for the speculative loss of time and paying
railroad and hotel bills, etc."
Under the decisions to which we have referred, it is evident

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

that, in, the case at bar, the measure of damages for the detention was interest on the value of the property from the time
of the wrong complained of. This rule- of damages has been
held by this court to be the proper measure even in an action
of trespass for a seizure of personal property where the facts
connected with the seizure did not entitle the plaintiff to a
recovery of exemplary damages. An action of this character
was the case of Corard v. Pacifc Insurance Co., 6 Pet. 262.
In the course of the opinion there delivered by Mr. Justice
Story, the court held that the trial judge did not err in giving
to the juiy the following instruction:
"The general rule of damage is the value of the property
taken, with interest from the time of the taking down to the
trial. This is generally considered as the extent of the damages sustained, and this is deemed legal compensation with
reference solely to the injury done to the property taken,
and not to any collateral or consequential damages, resulting
to the owner, by the trespass."
Indeed the same rule was in effect reiterated in Matson v.
Sutherland, 5 Wall. 74, 79, where it was substantially held
that "loss of trade, destruction of credit and failure of business prospects" could not -be recovered in an action at law
where malice or bad faith was not an ingredkent, becausem
such damages were collateral or consequential as regards a
seizure of personal property, and could only be recovered at
law where the issue of bad faith was involved. In other
words, that however at law such damages might be considered when the suit was based upon a malicious trespass
they were .not a proximate result of an injury to property
caused by an illegal seizure thereof.
The courts of South Carolina, as we have seen, have held
that in an action of trover consequential damages are not
recoverable, and have also held that in the action of claim
and delivery damages for the detention must have respect to,
the property and to a direct injury arising from the detention.
Destruction of business not being of the latter character, it
follows that the special' damages averred in the complaint
were not recoverable..

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

It results that as the plaintiff's action was solely one for
claim and delivery of property alleged to have been unlawfully detained and for damages for the -detention thereof,
the amount of recovery depended first upon the alleged value
of the property, which in the present case was one thousand
dollars, and such damages as it was by operation of law
allowed to recover in the action in question. As, however,
by way of damages in an action of this character, recovery
was only allowable for the actual damage caused by the detention, and could not embrace a cause of damage which was
not in legal contemplation the proximate result of the wrongful detention, and such recovery was confined, as we have
seen, to interest on the value of the property, it results that
there was nothing in the damages alleged in the petition and
properly recoverable adequate, when added to the value, of
the property, to have conferred upon the court jurisdiction
to -have entertained a consideration of the suit. Upon the
face of the complaint, therefore, the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction over the action, and it erred in deciding to the
contrary.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of South Carolinais reversed with costs and
the cause is remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the casefor want of jurisdiction.

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 583. Argued April il,1898. -Decided

FOR THE

May 9, 1898.

The Indictment in this case, which is. set forth at length in the statement
of the case, alleged the murder to have been committed " on the high
seas, and within t~e jurisdiction of this court, and within the admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction of the said United States of America, and out
of the jurisdiction of any particular State of the said United States of
VOL. CLXX-31

