WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

537

Statement of the Case.

that plaintiff, by riding in the stock car while the train was in
motion, was guilty of contributory negligence, or even to go
to the jury on that point. The real question was whether the
train was actually in motion when the injury was received,
and, if there was any error at all in submitting that question
to the jury, it was not one of which the defendant was entitled
to complain.
There was no error in the action of the Court of Appeals,
and its judgment is, therefore,
Afl rmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE dissented.

WESTINGHOUSE

BOYDEN

POWER

v.

BOYDEN
COMPANY.

BRAKE

POWER

BRAKE COMPANY
INGHOUSE.

v. WEST-

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURThI
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 116, 99. Argued March 10. 11, ,9S. -Decided

May 9, 1S98.

The Boyden -device for a fluid-pressure break is not an infringement ot
patent No. 360,070 issued to George Westinghouse, Jr., March 29, 1887,
for a fluid-pressure automatic-brake mechanism.

THIS was a writ of certiorari to review a decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing a decree of the Circuit
Court for the District of Maryland, which had sustained, in
part, a bill filed by Westinghouse against the Boyden Power
Brake Company for the infringement of patent No. 360,070,
and from which decree both parties had taken an appeal to
the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The patent in suit, which was issued March 29, 1887, to
George Westinghouse, Jr., is for a fluid-pressure automaticbrake mechanism, the object of which is said in the speci-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

fication to be "to enable the application of brake-shoes to
car-wheels by fluid pressure to be effected with greater rapidity
and effectiveness than heretofore, more particularly in trains
of considerable length, as well as to economize compressed air
in the operation of braking, by utilizing in the brake-cylinders
the greater portion of the volume of air which in former
practice was directly discharged into the atmosphere."
"To this end my invention, generally stated, consists in a
novel combination of a brake-pipe, an auxiliary reservoir, a
brake-cylinder and a 'triple-valve' device, governing, primarily, communication between the auxiliary reservoir and the
brake-cylinder, and, secondarily, communication directly from
the brake-pipe to the brake-cylinder."
There follows here a description of the Westinghouse automatic brake as theretofore used, its mode of operation, and
the defects or insufficiencies which attended its application to
long trains, in the following language :
"In the application of the Westinghouse automatic brake
as heretofore and at present commonly in use, each car is
provided with a main air-pipe, an auxiliary reservoir, a brakecylinder and a triple-valve, the triple-valve having three connections, to wit, one to the main air-brake pipe, one to the
auxiliary reservoir and one to the brake-cylinder. The main
air-pipe has a stop-cock at or near each of its ends, to be
opened or closed as required, and is fitted with flexible connections and couplings for connecting the pipes from car to
car of a train, so as to form a continuous line for the transmission of compressed air from a main reservoir supplied by
an air-pump on the engine. When the brakes are off or
released, but in readiness for action upon the wheels of the
train, the air which fills the main reservoir and main air-pipes
has a pressure of from sixty-five to seventy-five pounds to the
square inch, and by reason of the connections referred to the
same pressure is exerted in the casings of the triple-valves on
both sides of their pistons and in the auxiliary reservoirs
connected therewith. At the same time passages called
'release-ports' are open f-eom the brake-cylinders to the atmosphere. When it is desired to apply the brakes, air is

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

539

Statement of the Case.

allowed to escape from the main air-pipes through the engineer's valve, thereby reducing the pressure in the main
air-pipes, whereupon the then higher pressure in the auxiliary
reservoirs moves the pistons of the triple-valves, so as to first
close the passages from the triple-valves to the brake-pipe and
at the same time close the release-ports of all the brakecylinders, and then open the passages from the auxiliary
reservoirs to the brake-cylinders, the pistons of which are
forced out by the compressed air thereby admitted to the
brake-cylinders, applying the brakes by means of suitable
levers and connections, all of which mechanism is fully
shown in various letters patent granted to me."
"The application of the brakes with their full force has
heretofore required a dischfarge of air from the main pipe
sufficient to reduce the pressure in said pipe below that remaining in the auxiliary reservoir after the brakes have been
fully applied, and it has been found that, while the brakes are
sufficiently quick in action on comparatively short trains,
their action on long trains of from thirty to fifty cars, which
are common in freight service under present practice, is in a
measure slow, particularly by reason of the fact that all the
air required to be discharged from the main pipe to set the
brakes must travel from the rear of the train to a single discharge opening on the engine. This discharge of air at the
engine has not only involved a serious loss of time in braking,
but also a waste of air. Under my present invention a
quicker and more efficient action of the brakes is obtained,
and air which has been heretofore wasted in the application
of the brakes is almost wholly utilized to act upon the brakepistons."
After a detailed description of the invention, an important
feature of which is a triple-valve, (hereinafter more fully explained in the opinion,) with references to the accompanying
drawings, the specification proceeds to state that, "so far as
the performance of its preliminary function in ordinary braking is concerned-that is to say, effecting the closure of
communication between the main-air pipe anJ the auxiliary
reservoir, and the opening of communication between the aux-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
tatement of the Case.

iliary reservoir and the brake-cylinder in applying the brak~s,
and the reverse operations in releasing the brakes-the triplevalve 10 accords substantially with that set forth in letters
patent of the United States No. 220,656, granted and issued
to me October 14, 1879, and is not, therefore, saving as to the
structural features by which it performs the further function
of effecting the direct admission of air from the main air-pipe
to the brake-cylinder, as presently to be described, claimed as
of my present invention. Certain of its elements devised and
employed by me prior thereto will, however, be herein specified, in order to render its construction and operative relation
to other members of the brake mechanism fully intelligible."
After a further reference to the drawings he again states
that "so far as hereinbefore described, the triple-valve accords
in all substantial particulars with and is adapted to operate
similarly to those of my letters patent Nos. 168,359, 172,061
and 220,556, and, in order that it may perform the further
functions requisite in the practice of my present invention, it
is provided with certain additional members, which will now
be described." These additional members, which are said to
be for the purpose of effecting the admission of air directly
from the main air-pipe to the brake-cylinder when it is desired
to apply the brakes with great rapidity and full force, consist
of (1) a passageway through which air can be admitted directly from the main air (or train) pipe to the brake-cylinder,
without passing through the auxiliary reservoir; and, (2) ant
auxiliary valve in connection with such passage, that, when
the triple-valve piston makes a short or preliminary movement, the passageway direct from the train-pipe to brakecylinder, controlled by said valve, will not be opened, while,
in the event of a long or full movement of the piston, or
"further traverse," as it is called, such direct passageway
will be thrown wide open to the admission of train-pipe air,
and the brake-cylinder will be rapidly filled thereby.
After describing the auxiliary sliding valve 41 and its connections, as well as the operation of the device in ordinary
(non-emergency) cases of checking the speed of or stopping
trains,.already fully provided for in previous patents, he pro-

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO. 541
Statement of the Case.

ceeds to state its operation in cases of emergency which the
patent was specially designed to cover, as follows:
"In the event, however, of its becoming necessary to apply
the brakes with great rapidity and with their greatest available force, the engineer, by means of the valve at his command, instantly discharges sufficient air from the front end of
the main air-pipe to effect a sudden reduction of pressure of
about twenty pounds per square inch therein, whereupon the
piston 12 of the triple-valve is forced to the extreme limit of
its stroke in the direction of the drain-cup 19, carrying with
it the stem 36 and auxiliary slide-valve 41, which instantly
uncovers the port 42 and discharges air from the main air-pipe
through the opening of the check-valve 49 and the passages
46 and 48 to the brake-cylinder, and, each car being provided
with one of these devices, it will be seen that they are successively moved with great rapidity, there being practically on a
train of fifty cars fifty openings for discharging compressed
air from the main pipe instead of the single opening heretofore
commonly used. Not only is there a passage of considerable
size opened from -the brake-pipe on each car, whereby the
pressure is more quickly reduced, but the air so discharged
is utilized in the performance of preliminary work, it being
found in practice that the air so taken from the pipe will
exert a pressure of about twenty-five pounds in the brakecylinders. When the piston 12 arrives at the extremity of its
stroke as above specified, the supplemental port 35 of the slidevalve 14 is brought into communication with the port 33 and
passages 22 and 16, which serves to discharge the reservoirpressure into the brake-cylinder, thereby augmenting the
pressure already exerted in the brake-cylinder by the air
admitted from the main air-pipe. Upon the reduction of the
pressure in the main air-pipe below that in the brake-cylinders,
as by the breaking in two of the train, the check-valve 49
closes communication between the passages 46 and 18, thereby
preventing the return of the air from the brake-cylinder to the
main air-pipe. The feed-opening for the admission of air from
the auxiliary reservoir to the brake-cylinder is purposely made
of comparatively small diameter, it having been determined

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

by experiment that the initial application of the brakes should
not be made with maximum force, and this opening may be
made of such size as to apply the brakes exactly in accord with
the requirements of the most efficient work."
"In using the terms ' triple-valve' and 'triple-valve device'
I refer to a valve device, however specifically constructed,
having a connection with the main air or brake-pipe, another
with an auxiliary reservoir or chamber for the storage of
power, and another with a brake-cylinder or its equivalent for
the utilization of the stored power, and with a release or discharge passage for releasing the operative power from the
brake-cylinder, whether the valves governing these passages
or connections are arranged in one or more cases and are
moved by a piston or its equivalent or by a series of pistons
or their equivalents, there being numerous examples in the
art of constructions varying materially in appearance whereby
these functions are performed, both in plenum and vacnum
brake mechanisms."

The above drawings are somewhat clearer than those annexed to the patent, and exhibit the triple-valve and its connections in three posifions, viz., No. 13, Released or "Brakes
Off;" No. 14, Ordinary Service Application, and No. 16,
"Quick Action" Position.
The only claims of the patent alleged to have been infringed
are the first, second and fourth, which read as follows:
"1. In a brake mechanism, the combination of a main air-

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

543

Statement of the Case.

pipe, an auxiliary reservoir, a brake-cylinder, a triple-valve
and an auxiliary-valve device, actuated by the piston of the
triple-valve and independent of the main valve thereof, for
admitting air in the application of the brake directly from
the main air-pipe to the brake cylinder, substantially as set
forth."
"2. In a brake mechanism, the combination of a main airpipe, an auxiliary reservoir, a brake-cylinder, and a triple-valve
having a piston whose preliminary traverse admits air from
the auxiliary reservoir to the brake-cylinder, and which by a
further traverse admits air directly from the main air-pipe to
the brake-cylinder, substantially as set forth."
"4. The combination, in a triple-valve device, of a case or
chest, a piston fixed: upon a stem and working in a chamber
therein, a valve moving with the piston-stem and governing
ports and passages in the case leading to connections with an
auxiliary reservoir and a brake-cylinder and to the atmosphere,
respectively, and an auxiliary valve actuated by the pistonstem and controlling communication between passages leading
to connections with a main-air-pipe and with the brake-cylinder,
respectively, substantially as set forth."
The joint and several answer of the Boyden Brake Company
admitted that such company was
and the individual defendants
engaged in manufacturing and selling a fluid-pressure brake,
but denied that the. same was an infringement upon complainants' patent, and also denied that Westinghouse was the original inventor of the mechanism covered by the patent, and
alleged that an+apparatus, substantially identical in character,
had been previously granted Westinghouse, March 5, 1872,
(No. 124,404,) and that a like apparatus was previously described in the following patents issued to Westinghouse, viz.:
No. 138,827, May 13, 1873; No. 144,006, October 28, 1873;
No. 168,359, October 5, 1875; No. 172,064, January 11, 1876;
No. 220,556, October 14, 1879, and also in three patents to
other parties, not necessary here to be specifically mentioned.
The answer further denied any infringement of the first,
fourth and fifth claims of the patent sued upon, (No. 360,070,)
and, with respect to the second claim, averred the same to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Counsel for Westinghouse.

invalid because the combination of parts therein named is inoperative to perforin and incapable of performing the function
set fgrth in said claim; and that, if the said claim be considered
merely as the combination of parts therein set forth, and without reference to the function described as performed by it, it
is invalid for the reason that the same combination of parts is
shown in most of the prior patents above cited, and has been
publicly used by the complainants for a long time prior to the
date of the said letters patent No. 360,070.
The answer further averred the claim to be uncertain and
ambiguous, and if the functions recited by it are construed as
amplifying the description of the combination to distinguish
this combination from that shown in the prior patents, "then
the defendants say that the said claim is anticipated by the
prior letters patent issued to George A. Boyden on June 26,
1883, for the reason that air-brake valves made in accordance
with the last mentioned patent embody the same combination
of parts, and will perform the same functions, and operate in
substantially the same manner as stated in said second claim."
Upon a hearing in the Circuit Court upon the pleadings and
proofs, that court was of opinion that the second claim was
valid, and had been infringed, but that defendants had not
infringed claims one and four, and as to those the bill was
dismissed. 66 Fed. Rep. 997. From the decree entered in
pursuance of this opinion both parties appealed to the Court
of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, which affirmed the action
of the Circuit Court with respect to the first and fourth claims,
but reversed it with respect to the second claim, and dismissed
the bill. 25 U. S. App. 475. Whereupon complainants applied for and were granted a writ of certiorari.
Full copies of the principal Westinghouse patents are
printed in Westinghouse Brake Co. v. N. Y. Brake Co., 26
U. S. App. -248, and of the Boyden patents in the report of
this case in 25 U. S. App. 475.
Mr. George H. Christy ard Mr. Frederic H. Betts for
Westinghouse.
X.A. J Snowden Bell and Mr. Bernard
Carter were on theii brief.

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

545

Opinion of the Court.

XA. Philip Mauro and Mr. Lysander Hill for the Boyden
Power Brake Company. Mlr. Hector T. Fenton, .r'. Melvill
Church and Mr. Anthony Pollok were on their brief.
MnE. JusTicE BRoWx, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The history of arresting the speed of -railway trains by the
application of compressed air is one to which the records of
the Patent Office bear frequent witness, of a gradual progress
from rude and imperfect beginnings, step by step, to a final
consummation, which, in respect to. this invention, had not
been reached when the patent in suit was taken out, and
which, it is quite posible, has not been reached to this day.
It is not disputed that the most important steps in this direction have been taken by Westinghouse himself.
The original substitution of the air-brake for the old handbrake was itself almost a revolution, but the main difficulty
seems to have arisen in the subsequent extension of that
system to long trains of freight cars, in securing a simultaneous application of brakes to each of perhaps forty or fifty
cars in such a train, and finally in bringing about the instantaneous as well as simultaneous application of such brakes in
cases of emergency, when the speediest possible stoppage of
the train is desired to avoid a catastrophe.
Patent No. 88,929, issued April 13, 1869, appears to have
been the earliest of the Westinghouse series. This brake,
known as the straight-airbrake, consisted of an air-compressing pump, operated by steam from the locomotive boiler, by
which air was compressed' into a reservoir, located under thelocomotive, to a pressure of about eighty pounds to the squareinch. This reservoir, being still in use, is now known as.
the main reservoir. From this reservoir an air-pipe, usually
called the train-pipe, led into the cab, where the supply ofair was regulated by an "engineer's valve," thence down and,
back under the tender and cars, being united between the
cars by a flexible hose with metal couplings, rendering the.
train-pipe continuous. These couplings were automatically
VOL. CLXX-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

detachable; that is, while they kept their grip upon each
other under the ordinary strains incident to the running of
the train, they would readily pull apart under unusual strains,
as when the car coupling broke and the train pulled in two.
From the train-pipe of each car, a branch pipe connected
with the forward end of a cylinder, called the "brakecylinder," which contained a piston, the stem of which was
connected with the brake levers of the car. This piston was
moved, and the brakes applied, by means of compressed air
admitted through the train-pipe and its branches, into the
forward end of the brake-cylinder. When the brakes were
to be applied, the engineer opened his valve, admitted the
compressed air into the train-pipes and brake-cylinders,
whereby the 'levers were operated and the brakes applied.
To release the brakes, he reversed the valve, whereby the
compressed air escaped from the brake-cylinders, flowed forward along the train-pipe to the escape port of the engineer's
valve, thence into the atmosphere. Upon the release of the
compressed air, the pistons of the brake-cylinders were forced
forward again by means of spyings, and the brake-shoes removed from the wheels. By means of this apparatus, the
train might be wholly stopped or slowed down by a full or
partial application of the brakes. As between a full stop and
a partial stop, or slow speed, there was only a question of the
amount of air to be released from the main reservoir. The validity of this patent was sustained by the Circuit Court for the
Northern District of Ohio, Mr. Justice Swayne and Judge
Welker sitting, in WVestinghouse v. T/ie Air Brake copnany,
9 Official Gazette, 538. The court said, in its opinion, that
while Westinghouse was not the first to conceive the idea of
operating railway brakes by air pressure, such fact did not detract at all from his merits or rights as a successful inventor;
that the new elements introduced by him "fully substantiated
his pretensions as an original and meritorious inventor, and
entitled him as such to the amplest protection of the law ; ".
and that it appeared from the record and briefs that he was
the first to put an air-brake into successful actual use.
While the application of this brake to short trains was

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

547

Opinion of the Court.

reasonably successful, the time required for the air to pass
from the locomotive to the rear cars of a long train (about
one second per car) rendered it impossible to stop the train
with the requisite celerity, since in a train of ten cars it
would be ten seconds before the brakes could be applied to
the rear car, and to a freight train of fifty cars nearly a minute. While the speed of the foremost car would be checked
at once, those in the rear would proceed at unabated speed,
and in their sudden contact with the forward cars would produce such shocks as to often cause damage. As a train moving at the rate of fifty miles an hour makes over seventy feet
per second, a train of fifty cars would run half a mile before
the brakes could be. applied to the rear car. So, too, if the
rear end of the train became detached from the forward end
by the rupture of tile train-liipe or couplings, the brakes could
not be applied at all, since the compressed air admitted to the
train-pipe by opening the engineeFs valve would escape into
the atmosphere without operating the brakes, or if the brakes
were already applied, they would be instantly released when
such rupture occurred.
The first step taken toward the removal of these defects
resulted in what is known as" the automatic brake," described
first in patent No. 124,404 in a crude form, and, after several
improvements, finally culminating in patent No. 220,556 of
1880. The salient -features of this brake were an auxiliary
reservoir beneath each car for the reception and storage of
compressed air from the main reservoir, and a triple-valve, so
called, automatically controlling the flow of compressdd air in
three directions, by opening and closing, at the proper times,
three ports or valve openings, viz.: 1. A port or valve known
as the "feeding-in valve" from the train-pipe to the auxiliary
reservoir, allowing the auxiliary reservoir -to fill so as to be
ready when the brakes were applied; 2. A port or valve from
the auxiliary reservoir to the brake-cylinder, which allowed a
flow of compressed air to apply the brakes, and was called the
"main valve;" 3. A port or valve from the brake-cylinder to
the open air, denominated the "release-valve," to be opened
when it was desired to release the brakes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The operation of these valves was as follows: Before the
train starts, compressed air from the main reservoir is permitted to flow back through the train-pipe, and through valve
No. 1, for the purpose of charging the auxiliary reservoir beneath each car with a full working pressure of air. When it
is desired to apply the brakes, the engineer's valve is shifted,
and the air in the train-pipe is allowed to escape into the atmosphere at the engine. Thereupon the compressed air in the
auxiliary reservoir closes valve No. 1, leading to the train-pipe,
and opens the main valve No. 2, from the auxiliary reservoir
to the brake-cylinder, whereby the piston of that cylinder
operates upon the brake-levers and applies the brakes. By
this use of the auxiliary reservoirs a practically simultaneous
applicati6n of the brakes is secured for each car. This application of the brakes is secured, not by direct application of
compressed air from the engine through the train-pipe, but
by a reverse action, whereby the air is allowed to escape from
the train-pipe toward the engine, the pressure being applied
by the air escaping from the auxiliary reservoirs. It also
results that, if a train should pull in two, or a car become
detached, the same escape of air occurs, the same action takes
place automatically at the broken part, and the same result
follows by the escape of the compressed air through the separated couplings. When it is desired to release -the brakes,
the engineer's valve is again shifted, and the compressed air
not only opens valve No. 1 from the train-pipe to the auxiliary reservoir, but valve No. 3 from the brake-cylinder to the
open air, which allows the air from the brake-cylinder to escape and thus release the brake.
From this description it will be seen that the action of the
automatic brake was, in fact, the converse of that of the
straight air-brake, and that the result was to obviate the most
serious defects which had attended the employment of the
former.
This automatic brake appears, in its perfected form, in patent No. 220,556, although this patent was but the culmination
of a series of experiments, each successive step in which appears in the prior patents. Thus in patent No. 1247,404, (1872,)'

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO. 549
Opinion of the Court.

is introduced the auxiliary reservoir beneath each car in connection with a double line of brake-pipes and a single cock
with suitable ports for charging the reservoir and for operating the brakes - a device which was obviously the foundation
of the triple-valve which first made its appearance in patent
No. 141,685, (1873,) in which the main valve, which admitted
air from the auxiliary reservoir to the brake-cylinder, was of
the poppet form; and as a poppet-valve, can govern only one
port, separate valves had to be provided for feeding in the
air from the train-pipe to the auxiliary reservoir, and for discharging the air from the brake-cylinder to release the brakes.
In subsequent patents, No. 144,006, (1873,) and No. 163,242,
(issued in 1875 to C. H. Perkins and assigned to Westinghouse,) Mr. Westinghouse improved upon his prior devices by
substituting a sliding-piston Valve for the poppet form of main
valve previously used by him. This enabled the piston to
perform the feed-valve function of admitting air from the
train-pipe to the auxiliary reservoir; the main-valve function
of admitting air from the auxiliary reservoir to the brakecylinder to apply the brakes, and the release-valve function
of discharging the air from the cylinder to release the brakes.
In patent No. 168,359, (1875,) a piston actuating a slide-valve
was substituted for the piston-valve, and, after a series of experiments, which did not seem to have been successful, he
introduced into patent No. 217,838 the idea of venting the
train-pipe, not only at the locomotive, but also under each car,
in order to quicken the application of tha brakes. Prior to
this time, "when the engineer desired to apply his brakes
with full force he operated the valve at the engine and opened
the port wide, letting the compressed dir out of the train-pipe
at the locomotive, then its only vent. The air, as before said,
had to travel from the rear cars along the cars forward to the
engine before it could lessen the pressure of the train-pipe air,
and before the brake-cylinder could be operated with
air from the auxiliary reservoirs. In a train of fifty cars it
would have to travel nearly half a mile to get out at the engine." He embodied in patent No. 220,556, (1879,) the most
complete form of the automatic brake, and as stated by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

court below, "the ordinary work of braking was performed
by a partial traverse of its chamber by the triple-valve piston,
graduated according to the purpose desired, at the will of the
engineer, and emergency work was done by an extreme traverse of the piston to the end of its chaipber."
While the automatic brake had thus obviated the most im.portant defects of the old or straight air-brake, and come into
-general use upon passenger trains throughout the country, it
was found, in practice upon long freight trains, that the air
from the auxiliary reservoirs did not act with sufficient
promptn6ss upon the brakes of the rear cars, where a -particularly speedy action was required, and that it would be
necessary' to devise some other means for cases of special
emergency. In the bu'siness of transporting freight over long
distances, the tendency has been in. the direction of increasing
the load by using stronger and heavier cars and larger locomotives. Upon a long train of this kind, composed of thirty
to fifty cars, a demand was made for quicker action in cases
of emergency than had' yet been contemplated, although for
ordinary work, such as checking the speed of a train wihile
running, holding it at a slow speed on a down grade, and also
for making the ordinary station stops, the- automatic brake
was still sufficient, and produced §atisfactory results even in
the equipment of long and heavy trains. But .however'effective for ordinary purposes, the automatic brake did not sufficiently' provide for certain emergencies, requiring prompt
action, and, therefore, failed in a single important paiticular.
Upon examination -of these defects it was found that they
cotld only be remedied by securing, (1) in cases of emergency,
a more abundant discharge of compressed air into the brakecylinder; and (2) an escape of air near to each triple-valve
without requiring the escaping air to travel all the way back
to the engine. The latter device having been already embodied in patent No. 217,838, these features Mr. Westinghouse introduced into the patent in suit, by which a passagA
was opened directly from the train-pipe filled from the main
reservoir on the engine, to the brake-cylinder through which,
in cases of emergency, the train-pipe air, instead of being dis-'

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

551

Opinion of the Court.

charged into the atmosphere, could pour directly from the
train-pipe into the brake-cylinder. This operation resulted
in charging the brake-cylinder and applying the brakes more
quickly than before, and also, by reason of the fact that the
filling of the brake-cylinder from the train-pipe on one car
made what was, in effect, a local vent for the release of pressure sufficient to operate the valve on the next car behind,
each successive valve operated more quickly than when a diminution of pressure was caused by an escape of air only at the
locomotive. The direct passage Qf the air from the train-pipe
to the brake-cylinder was effected by a valve (41), colored red
in the above diagrams, which is never opened except in cases
of emergency. In ordinary cases, when the brakes are desired to be applied, sufficient air is released from the trainpipe to open the passage from the auxiliary reservoir to the
brakqcylinder by what is called a preliminary traverse of the
piston (12), but when a quick action is required sufficient air
is drawn from the train-pipe, not only to open this passage,
but by a furthei traverse of the piston, to shove valve 41 off
its port, and introduce air directly from the train-pipe to
the brake-cylinder, as shown in the following drawings.

Ad

0

-

0

ox
MIlxny
z

£ivI-y

ox

LsllIXy o.

Iw the foregoing skeleton drawings, from which all details
of construction, and all figures of reference, not necessary
for a clear understanding of the structure, are omitted, the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

essential parts are colored, so that their changes of position in
the different stages of action can be easily followed.
The access of train-pipe air is shown located at the right
end of the structure, instead of the left, (as in the patent
drawings,) "simply for greater clearness. Its course from the
traii-Pipe to the auxiliary cylinder is through the small port
above thd upper arm of the piston 12.
The "main valve" of the triple is black. Its office is to
admit auxiliary reservoir air to brake-cylinder.
The "quick-action" valve is colored red. Its office is to
admit train-oipeair to brake-cylinder.
The release port is colored green. Its office is to discharge
air from brake-cylinder, in releasing the brakes.
There is also shown in yellow what is known as the graduating valve, the function of which will be hereafter explained.
As at present used, the triple-valve is in reality a quadruplevalve.
.The flow or movement of air, in the several positions of the
structure is also shown by colored lines and arrows, viz.:
Air released from brake-cylinder to open air by green
arrow.
Air flowing from auxiliary reservoir to brake-cylinder, in
"service" application of the brakes, by red line. And air
flowing from train-pipe to brake-cylinder in "quick-action"
application, by blue line.
This patent, although it introduced a novel feature into the
art, does not seem to have been entirely successful in its practical operation, since in October of the same year an improvement was patented, No. 376,837, with the object of still further
increasing the rapidity of action. As observed by the District
Judge in this connection, "the success of this improved device,
No. 376,837, has demonstrated that the inVention, by which the
further traverse of the triple-valve piston beyond the extent of
the traverse required for the ordinary application of the brakes,
is made to admit a large volume of train-pipe air directly to
the brake-cylinder was one of great importance. The proofs
,show that a quiick-action automatic brake, which would give
the results which this brake has accomplished, was eagerly

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

553

Opinion of the, Court.

sought after by inventors and car builders, and all had failed
until Westinghouse discovered that it could be done by this
mode of operation."
We are now in position to take up the several claims of the
patent in suit, and their defences thereto. It may be stated
generally that the position of complainants in this connection
is, that the novel feature of this patent, in respect to which
they are entitled to be protected, is the opening of a passage
directly from the train-pipe to the brake-cylinder, without
passing through the auxiliary reservoir and without reference
to the means by which such passageway is controlled. Defendant's theory is that they are limited to such passageway when
governed by the auxiliary valve 41, a device which, although
of n3 utility as arranged in the patent in suit, became afterwards exceedingly useful when further combined with the
supplementary piston shown in patent No. 36,837. The
further inference is that, as they do not use the auxiliary valve
of this patent, they cannot be held liable as infringers.
Complainants' case must rest either upon the theory that
the admission of compressed air directly from the train-pipe
to the brake-cylinder is patentable as a function, or that the
means employed by the defendants for that purpose are a
mechanical equivalent for the auxiliary valve 41, described in
the patent.
1. The first theory is based'upon the second claim, which is
"in a brake mechanism, the combination of a main air-pipe,
an auxiliary reservoir, a brake-cylinder and a triple-valve having a piston, whose preliminary traverse admits air from the
auxiliary reservoir to the brake-cylinder, and which by a further traverse admits air directly from the main air-pipe to
the brake-cylinder, substantially as set forth."
In the construction of this claim, the District Judge was of
opinion that it was broad enough to cover other devices in
which air was admitted directly from the train-pipe to the
brake-cylinder by the further traverse of the piston actuating
a valve admitting such air, and that the defendants could not
exculpate thems6lves from the charge of infringement, from
the fact that in their device the train-pipe air was admitted

OCTOBER TERII, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

through the triple-valve chamber, and not through a by-passage, nor by the fact that in their device the further traverse
of the piston opens the main valve in a special manner, which
produces the same result, but does not make use of a separate
auxiliary valve.'
Upon the other hand, the Circuit Court of Appeals held that
"the transmission of train-pipe air and auxiliary reservoir air
simultaneously to the brake-cylinder is a result of [or] function,
and is not patentable;" that "the means by which this or any
other result or function is accomplished may be many and various, and if these several means are not mechanical equivalents,
each of them is patentable." It was of opinion that when the
secon'd claim, "in its language describing the action of that
device, failed to describe any means by which the extreme
traverse of the piston produced it, declaring merely that the
piston, 'by a further traverse, admits air directly from the
main air-pipe to the brake-cylinder,' it was fatally defective,
claiming only a result which is public property, and not identifying the specific means (his own property) by which the
result is achieved."
It is true, as observed by the Court of Appeals, that the
further traverse of the piston for use in cases of emergency
had been shown'in prior patenits, but it had never been employed for the purpose of admitting air directly from the main
air-pipe to the brake-cylinder until the patent in suit was taken
out.
The claim in question is, to a certain extent, for a function,
viz., the admission of air directly from the train-pipe to the
brake-cylinder, and is only limited to such function when performed by the further traverse of the piston of the triple-valve.
'This limitation, however, does not obviate the objection that
-the means are not fully and .specifically set forth for the performance of the function in question.
The difficulty we have found with this claim is this: That,
if it be interpreted simply as a claim for the function of admitting air to the brake-cylinder directly from the train-pipe, it is
open to the objection, held in several cases to be fatal, that the
mere function of a machine cannot be patented.

'WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

555

Opinion of the Court.

This rule was clearly laid down in the leading case of Corning v. Burden, 15 How. 252, in which Mr. Justice Grier, delivering the opinion of the court, drew the distinction between
such processes as were the result or effect of "chemical action,
by the operation or application of some element or power of
nature, or of one substance to another," and the mere result
of the operation of a machine, with regard to which he says:
"It is for the discovery or invention of some practicable
method or means of producing a beneficial result or effect that
a patent is granted, and not for the result or effect itself.
It is when the term 'process ' is used to represent the means or
method of producing a result that it is patentable, and it will
include all methods or means which are not effected by mechanism or mechaijical combinations.
"But the term ' process' is often used in a more vague sense,
in which it cannot be the subject of a patent. Thus we say
that a board is undergoing the process of being planed, grain
of being ground, iron of being hammered or rolled. Here the
term is used subjectively or passively as applied to the material operated on, and iot to the method or mode of producing
that operation, which is by mechanical means, or the use of
a machine, as distinguished from a process."
"In this use of the term it represents the function of a
machine, or the effect produced by it on the material subjected to the action of the machine. But it is well settled
that a man cannot have a patent for the function or abstract
effect of a machine, but only for the machine which pi'oduces
it."
- In the subsequent cage of Burr v. Duryee, 1 Wall. 531, 570,
Mr. Justice Grier laid down the same principle as follows:
"The patent act grants a monopoly 'to any one who may
have discovered or invented any new and useful art, machine,
manufacture or composition of matter.'

.

.

.

The law re-

quires that the specification ' should set forth the principle and
the several modes in which he has contemplated the application. of that principle, or character by which it may be distinguished from other inventions, and shall particularly point
out the part, improvement or combination which he claims as

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

his own invention or discovery.' We find here no authority
to grant a patent for a '.principle' or 'a mode of operation,'
or an idea,or any other abstraction. A machine is a concrete
thing, consisting of parts, or of certain devices and combination of devices. The principle of a machine is properly defined
to-be its mode of operation, or that peculiai combination of devices whibh distinguishes it from other machines. A machine
is not a principle or an idea. The use of ill defined abstract
phraseology is the frequent source of error. It requires no
great ingenuity to mystify a subject by the use of abstract
terms of indefinite or equivocal meaning. ;Because the law
requires a patentee to explain the mode of operation of his
peculiar machine, which distinguishes it from others, it does
not, authorize a patent for,'a mode of operation as exhibited
in the machine.' Much less can any inference be drawn from
the statute, that an inventor who has made an improvement
in a machine, and thus effects the desired result in a better
or cheaper manner than before can include all previous inventions and have a claim .to the whole art, discovery or
machine-which he has improved. All others have an equal
right to make improved machines, provided they do not embody the same, or substantially the same devices, or combination of devices, which constitute the peculiar characteristics
of the previous invention."
* Soalso in Pullerv. Yentzer, 9- U. S. 2S8, this court, speakfhgrthrough Mr. Justice Clifford, said:
"Patents for a machine will not be sustained if the claim is
for a result, the established rule being that the invention, if
any, within the meaning of the :atent Act, consists in the
means or apparatus by which the result is obtained, and not
merely in the mode of operation independent of the mechanical devices employed; 'nor will a patent" be held valid for a
principle or for an idea, or any other mere abstraction."
Most of the prior authorities upon this subject are reviewed
in the recent case of Risdon Locomotive Works v. Aledart,
158. U. S. 68, in which it was also held that a valid patent
could not be 6btained for a process which involved nothing
more than the operation of a piece of mechanism, or the func-

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO. 557
Opinion of the Court.

tion of a machine. See also to the same effect Wicke v. Ostrurn,
103 U. S. 461, 469. These cases assume, although they do
not expressly decide, that a process to be patentable must involve a chemical or other similar elemental action, and it may
be still regarded as an open question whether the patentability
of processes extends beyond this class of inventions. Where
the process is simply the function or operative effect of a
machine, the above cases are conclusive against its patentability; but where it is one which, though ordinarily and most
successfully performed by machinery, may also be performed
by simple manipulation, such, for.instance, as the folding of
paper in a peculiar way for the manufacture of paper bags, or
a new method of weaving a hammock, there are cases to the
effect that such a process is patentable, though none of the
powers of nature be invoked to aid in producing the result.
Eastern Paper Bag Co. v. Standard Paper Bag Co., 30 Fed.
Rep. 63; Union Paper Bag Machine Co. v. Waterbuiry, 39
Fed. Rep. 389; Travers v. Aga. Cordage Co., 64: Fed. Rep.
771. This case, however, does not call for an expression of
our opinion upon this point, nor even upon the question
whether the function of admitting air directly from the trainpipe to the brake-cylinder be patentable or not, since there is
no claim made for an independent process in this patent, and
the whole theory of the specification and claims is based upon
the novelty of the mechanism.
But if the second claim be not susceptible of the interpretation that it is simply for a function, then the performance
of that function must be limited to the particular means
described in the specification for the admission of air from
the train-pipe to the brake-cylinder. This we understand to
be the theory of the defendants, and this raises the same
question which is raised under the first and fourth claims,
whether defendants' device contains the auxiliary valve of
the Westinghouse patent, or its mechanical equivalent.
In this view, it becomes unnecessary to express an opinion
whether the second claim be valid or not, since in the aspect
of the case most favorable to the complainants, it is necessary
to read into it something which is not found there, or, in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

language of complainants' brief, "to refer back to the specification; not, it is true, for. a slavish adoption of the identical
instrumentalities therein described, but for the understanding
of the essential and substantial features of the means therein
illustrated.5' In thus reading the specification into the claim,
we can adopt no other construction than to consider it as if
the auxiliary valve were inserted in the claim in so many
words, and then to inquire whether the defendants make use
of such valve, or its mechanical equivalent.
There are two other facts which have a strong bearing in
the same connection, and.preelude the idea that this can be
interpreted as a claim for a function, without reading into it
the particular device described in the specification.
One of these is that the claim is for a triple-valve device,
etc., for admitting air from the main air-pipe to the brakecylinder, "substantially as set forth." These words have
been uniformly held by us to import into the claim the particulars of the specification, or, as was said in Seymour v.
Osborne, 11 Wall. 516, 547,.," where the claim immediately
follows the description of the invention, it may be construed
in connection with-the explanations contained in the specific'htions, and -wh6e it contains words referring back to the
specifications, it cannot be properly construed in any other
way." In that, case it -was held that a claim which might
otherwise be bad, as covering a funbtion or result, when containing the .words "substantially as described," should be
construed .in connection with the specification, and when so
construed was held to be valid. To the same effect is Tfie
Corn PlanterPatent, 23 Wall. 181, 218.

Again, it appears from the file-wrapper and contents, that
in his original application -Mr. Westinghouse made a broad
claim for the admission of air directly from the main air-pipe
'to tlie brake-cylinder, which was rejected upon reference to a
prior patent to Boyden, No. 280,285, and that on January 19,
1887, his attorney wrote the Patent Office in the following
-

terms:

"-It is respectfully submitted that while the Boyden patent
No. 280,285 referred to, shows that what the inventor terms

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

559

Opinion of the Court.

'an always-open one-way passage,' by which communication
may be established under certain conditions, between the main
air-pipe or train-pipe, and hence might be held to meet the
terms of the claim as originally broadly drawn, yet it fails to
embody a device which in structure or function corresponds
with the auxiliary valve of applicant, which in no sense relates
to 'an always-open one-way passage.' This amended claim,
above submitted, prescribes a valve device actuated by the
piston of the triple-valve for admitting air to the brake-cylinder in the application of the brake, while Boyden's check-valve
d is not actuated by the piston, and is designed to recharge
the auxiliary reservoir and brake-cylinder while the brakes
are on. It is submitted, as to claim 2, that a piston, which by
its preliminary traverse, admits dir from the auxiliary reservoir
to the brake-cylinder and by its further traverse admits air
directly from the main air-pipe'to the brake-cylinder, as set
forth in said claim, is not found in the Boyden patent, the
check-valve d of which is described as actuated by the manipulation of the cock q on the locomotive to ' recharge and continue charging the reservoir and brake-cylinder while the
brakes are applied.' . . . It is to be understood that applicant does not seek to broadly claim a devicefor admitting air
directly from the main air-pipe to the brake-cylinder3 as the
four-way cock long heretofore employed by him (§imilar to
the cock K of the Boyden patent) would be a structure of such
character. When, however, the triple-valve is provided with
an auxiliary valve, operated by its piston which per:forms a new
function additional to that of the triple-valve as previously
employed, it is believed that such combination is wholly novel."
So, too, in the specification it is stated:
"So far as the performance of its preliminary function in
ordinary braking is concerned -that is to say, effecting- the
closure of communication between the main air-pipe and the
auxiliary reservoir, and the opening of communication between
the auxiliary reservoir and the brake-cylinder in applying the
brakes, and the reverse operations in releasing the brakes the triple-valve 10 accords substantially with that set forth in
letters patent of the United States No. 220,556, granted and

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

issued to me October 14, 1879, and is not, therefore, saving as
to the structuralfeatures by which it performs the further
function of effecting the direct admission of air from the main
air-pipe to the brake-cylinder, as presently to be described,
claimed as of my present invention."
Apparently, too, in consequence of the above letter of January 19, 1887, the patentee erased from his original specification the following sentence: "Further, while in the specific
construction described and shown, the function of admitting
air from the main pipe is performed by a valve separate from
that which effects the preliminary admission of reservoir pressure to the cylinder, a modification in which the same office is
performed by a valve integral with the main valve and formed
by an extension thereof, would be included in and embody the
essential operative features of my invention," and inserted in
its place the following: "I am aware that a construction in
which 'an always-open one-way passage' from the main airpipe to the brake-cylinder is uncovered by the piston of the
triple-valve simultaneously with the opening of the passage
from the auxiliary reservoir to the brake-cylinder, has been
heretofore proposed, and such construction, which involves an
operation different from that of my invention, I therefore
hereby disclaim."
We agree with the defendant that this correspondence, and
the specification as so amended, should be construed as reading the auxiliary valve into the claim, and as repelling the
idea that this claim should be construed as one for a method
or process. Language more explicit upon this subject could
hardly have been employed.
While it is-true that no claim is formally made for the admission of train-pipe air directly to the brake-cylinder as a
method or process, a construction is given by the complainants
and the Circuit Court to the second claim which eliminates
the mechanical features described, and one which could only
be supported upon the theory that the claim was for a method
or process. If the mechanism described by Westinghouse,
and particularly the auxiliary valve, be not essential to the
validity of the second claim, then it could only be supported

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

561

Opinion of the Court.

upon the theory that it was for the process of admitting trainpipe air directly to the brake-cylinder.
2. The first and fourth claims of this patent are as follows:
"1. In.a brake mechanism, the combination of a main airpipe, an auxiliary reservoir, a brake-cylinder, a triple-valve
and an auxiliary valve device, actuated by the piston of the
triple-valve and independent of the main valve thereof, for
admitting air in the application of the brake directly from
the main air-pipe to the brake-cylinder, substantially as set
forth."
"14. The combination, in a triple-valve device, of a case or
chest, a piston fixed upon a stem and working in a chamber
therein, a valve moving with the piston-stem and governing
ports and passages in the case leading to connections with an
auxiliary reservoir and a brake-cylinder and to the atmosphere,
respectively, and an auxiliary valve actuated by the pistonstein and controlling communication between passages leading
to connections with a main air-pipe and with the brakecylinder, respectively, substantially as set forth."
These two claims are practically little more than different
expressions of one and the same invention. In both of them
there is a main air-pipe, an auxiliary reservoir, a brake-cylinder,
a triple-valve and piston, described in the fourth claim as
"fixed upon a stem and working in a chamber" in a case or
chest, and an auxiliary valve; and in the fourth claim also a
case or chest, which contains the whole device and is immaterial.
In both of these claims an auxiliary valve is named as an
element. In the first it is described as "actuated by the piston
of the triple-valve and independent of the main valve thereof ;"
and in the fourth as "actuated by the piston-stein and controlling communication between passages leading to connections with the main air-pipe and with the brake-cylinder."
To what liberality of construction these claims are entitled
depends to a certain extent upon the character of the invention, and whether it is what is termed in ordinary parlance a
This word, although used somewhat loosely, is
"pioneer."
commonly understood to denote a patent covering a function
VOL. cLxx-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

never beforeLperformed, a wholly novel device, or one of such
novelty and importance as to mark a distinct step in the progress of the art, as distinguished from a mere improvement or
perfection of what had gone before. Most conspicuous examples of such patents are- The one to Howe of the sewing
machine; to Morse of the electrical telegraph ; and to Bell of
the telephone. The record in this. case would indicate that
the same honorable appellation might be safely bestowed
upon the original air-brake of Westinghouse, and perhaps
also upon his automatic brake. In view of the fact that the
invention in this case was never put into successful operation,
and was to a limited extent anticipated by the Boyden patent
of 1883, it is perhaps an unwarrantable extension of the term
to speak of it as a "pioneer," although the principle involved
subsequently and through improvements upon this invention
became one of great value to the public. The fact that this
invention was first in the line of those which resulted in placing it within the power of an engineer, running a long train,
to stop in about half the time and half the distance within
which any similar train had stopped, is certainly deserving
of recognition, and entitles the patent to a liberality of con9truction which would not be accorded to an ordinary improvement upon prior devi6es. At the same time, as hereinafter
observed, this liberality must be exercised in subordination to
the general principle above stated: that the function of a
machine cannot be patented, and, hence, that the fact that
the defendants' machine performns the same function is not
conclusive that it is an infringement.
The device made use of by the defendants is exhibited in
patents No. 481,134 and No. 481,135, both dated August 16,
1892, and both of which were granted after the commencement.of this suit. There are two forms of this patent, one of
which, illbstrated in patent No. 481,135, is here given on the
opposite page in its three positions of release (20), service
application (21), and quick action (22).
In this device there is found a main air-pipe, an auxiliary
reservoir, a brake-cylinder, a triple, or rather a quadruple,
valve and-piston (29) with three ports; first, for the admission

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

563

Opinion of the Court.

of air from the train-pipe to the brake-cylinder through the
feeding-in valve 26; second, for the passage of air from the
auxiliary reservoir to the brake-cylinder through the apertures i, j, k in the stem slide-valve 18; and, third, for the
release of air from the brake-cylinder to the exhaust port by
means of valve 17, colored green. Whether this device has
an auxiliary valve or not is one'of the main questions in the
case, complainants' theory being that poppet-valve 22 is an
auxiliary valve, while defendants' claim is that it is in reality
the main valve.

00
___j

01

.L

j.

The operation of this device is best shown by the foregoing
skeleton drawings.
The auxiliary reservoirs are charged by air under pressure,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

entering from the train-pipe, raising and passing through the
feeding-in valve piston 26, and flowing slowly into and through
the passage A to the auxiliary reservoir, until such reservoir
is filled. In this condition the brake-cylinder is emptied and
opened to the atmosphere through the exhaust passage G.
In order to apply the brakes gradually, so as to slacken
speed or make an ordinary stop, air pressure in the train-pipe
is reduced slightly (say from three to five pounds) by action
of the engineer's valve, and the reduction of pressure on the
right side of the piston 29 causes the piston to make what is
termed a "preliminary traverse" to the position shown in
diagram "Service Application." Such preliminary traverse
pulls the stem slide-valve 18 to the right, and opens the apertures ij and k, (one of these apertures being to the right and
the other to the left of valve 22,) and through these apertures
air rushes from the auxiliary reservoir to the brake-cylinder;
but the poppet-valve 22 still remains upon its seat.
If quick action be required, the pressure in the train-pipe is
suddenly lowered to the extent of fifteen or twenty pounds,
and the travelling piston 29, instead of making a preliminary
traverse to the intermediate position shown in the "Service
Application," makes a full traverse to the extreme right, the
effect of which is that the valve 22 is pulled off its seat by the
collar M, and a large passage is opened to the brake-cylinder
under the valve 22 and around the stem 18. The result is, as
shown in the last diagram, that not only does the air in the
auxiliary reservoir escape in full volume to the brake-cylinder,
but air from the train-pipe rushes directly to the brake-cylinder through the large passage F into the chamber C and
under valve 22.
The argument of the defendants in this connection is that,
in this device, there is no auxiliary valve or by-passage, but
the quick-action result is effected simply by proportioning the
ports and passages of the old triple-valve, and using a fixed
partition, 9, to divide the piston chamber D from the mainvalve chamber C; that it is this partition which produces the
quick action, and that such partition is not a valve, nor the
mechanical equivalent of 'a valve, but merely a metal ring

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

565

Opinion of the Court.

screwed immovably into the triple-valve casing, and serving
to divide the piston-chamber from the main-valve chamber;
that this partition was a new element, never before found in
triple valves, and introduced a new principle and mode of
operation, totally different from anything ever invented by
Mr. Westinghouse or any other' inventor, and that its effect is
to make valve 22, termed byr them the main valve, admit the
train-pipe air to the brake-cylinder at the same time that it
admits the auxiliary air thereto.
It is claimed that, in embodying this new principle, Mr.
Boyden adopted the form of triple-valve shown in the expired
Westinghouse patent No. 141,685, (1873,) in which the main
valve, 22, is of the poppet form, and the separate valve 17,
controlled by a rod sliding through the main valve, is employed for releasing the brakes. For charging the auxiliary
reservoir he adopted, from the expired Westinghouse patent
No. 144,006, (1873,) a check-valved feed passage through the
triple-valve piston, but arranged the feed passage and its
check-valve, 26, in a tubular extension, F, of the piston, and
substantially in the form shown in Boyden patent No. 280,285,
(1883). He also provided a sensitive graduating valve, similar
in results to the graduating valve e' of the Westinghouse
patent No. 220,556, (1879,) by so arranging a small passage,
40, in the sliding stem, which actuates the release valve, that
such passage will be opened and closed by the sliding of such
stem through the main valve 22. As thus constructed, the
triple-valve operates much -the same as that of patent No.
220,556, and, like the latter, is incapable of quick action.
In both the complainants' and defendants' devices there is
(1) a feeding-in valve to charge the auxiliary reservoir; (2) a
valve which complainants call their "main valve," and which
the defendants denominate a "graduating valve," whieh is
opened by the preliminary traverse of the piston to admit
reservoir air to the brake-cylinder; (3)a release valve which
discharges air from the brake-cylinder to the atmosphere;
and (4) a quick-action valve- 41 in the complainants' patent,
and 22 in the defendants' - which is opened by the further
traverse of the piston to admit train-pipe air to the brake-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

cylinder. In defendants' patent, it may also be used to admit
auxiliary reservoir air to the brake-cylinder.
One of the main controversies in the case turns upon the
construction and operation of the poppet-valve 22, called by
the defendants their "main-valve."
Complainants insist that
the office of their main valve is performed by the stem slidevalve 18 of defendants' patent, and by its apertures i, j and
k, through which air passes from the auxiliary reservoir to
the brake-cylinder, and that the poppet-valve 22 is only called
into action in emergency cases, when a large quantity of air
is suddenly withdrawn from the train-pipe, and the valve is
unseated by the traverse of the piston to the extreme right.
There is no doubt that the function of admitting air from the
auxiliary reservoir to the brake-cylinder, which is performed
in the Westinghouse patent by what the complainants term
the main-valve, (aided, however, by the graduating-valve,) is,
in ordinary cases, performed principally, if not altogether, by
the stem slide-valve 18 and its three ports ij, k, of the Boy'den patent, which defendants term their graduating-valve.
It is equally clear that, in emergencies, where quick action
is required, air, which in the Westinghouse patent passes
through auxiliary valve 41, (opened by the further traverse of
the piston,) in the Bojden patent finds its way through the
poppet-valve 22, which has also been lifted from its seat by
the further traverse of the piston.
One of the main differences between the two devices is this:
That in the preliminary traverse of the piston of the Westinghouse patent, there is a movement, first, of the graduatingvalve to open its port from the auxiliary reservoir, and then
of the main valve, carrying the. graduating-valve also with it,
to open a passage to the brake-cylinder, while in the Boyden
patent it is only the graduating-valve which is opened by the
preliminary traverse of the piston. In doing this, the graduating-valve moves through the poppet-valve, but does not lift
it from its seat. In emergency cases not only do the graduating-valve and the main-valve of the Westinghouse patent
move as before, but, by the extreme traverse of the piston,
the auxiliary-valve 41 is shoved from its seat, and a separate

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

567

Opinion of the Court.

passage is opened for the air from the train-pipe to the brakecylinder. In the Boyden patent, however, the extreme traverse of the piston lifts the poppet-valve from its seat, and
opens a wide passage to the brake-cylinder, not only for the
air from the auxiliary reservoir, but, through the peculiar
operation of the partition 9 and its aperture B, directly from
the train-pipe. As the graduating-valve of the Boyden patent
practically does all the work in ordinary cases, and the poppetvalve is only called into action in emergency cases, the latter
is practically an auxiliary valve, by which, we understand,
not necessarily an independent valve, nor one of a particular
construction, but simply a valve which in emergency cases is
called into the assistance of the graduating-valve. In this
particular, the poppet-valve of the Boyden device performs
practically the same function as the slide-valve 41 of the
Westinghouse. It is not material in this connection that it is
a poppet-valve while the other is a slide-valve, since there is
no invention in substituting one valve or spring of familiar
shape for another; lm2haeuser v. Buerk, 101 U. S. 647, 656;
nor, that in one case the piston pushes the valve off its seat,
and in the other pulls it off; nor is it material that this poppet-valve may have. been used in prior patents to perform the
function of a main-valve, so long as it is used for a different
purpose here. Indeed, this valve seems to have been taken
bodily from Westinghouse patent No. 141,685, where it was
used as a main-talve, and the stem-valve 18 with its ports i,
j, k, added for ordinary uses, and the poppet-valve thus converted'from a main-valve to an.auxiliary valve.
We have not overlooked in this connection the argument
that the poppet-valve 22 is also sometimes used for graduating purposes, but it is not commonly so used, and appears to
be entirely unnecessary for that purpose. It seems to be possible to move the piston 29 to its extreme traverse so slowly, and
hence to open valve 22 so gradually, that the pressure in the
chamber C will be reduced so slightly, that the train-pipe air
will not have sufficient force to throw open the check-valve
26, and hence, in such case no train-pipe air will be admitted
directly to the brake-cylinder, which will be filled with auxil-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

iary reservoir air only. But, as a matter of fact, this seldom
or never takes place in the practical operation of the device,
and is an unnecessary and wholly unimportant incident, and
for all practical purposes valve 22 is solely a quick-action valve.
As this valve is actuated by the piston of the triple-valve, and
in such action is independent of the main valve, it meets the
demand of the first claim of the patent, and as it is actuated by
the piston-stem, and controls communication between passages
leading to connections with the main air-pipe and with the
brake-cylinder, it seems also to be covered by the fourth
claim.
But even if it. be conceded that the Boyden device corresponds with the letter of the Westinghouse claims, that does
not settle conclusively the question of infringement. We have
repeatedly held that a charge of infringement is sometimes
made out, though the letter of the claims be avoided. .Mac/ine
Co. v.. hrp/y, 97 U. S. 120; Irves v. Iamilton, 92 U. S. 426,
431; -Morey v. Lockwood, 8 Wall. 230; Elizabeth v. Pavement
Company, 97 U. S. 126, 137; Sessions v. ]?omadka,145 U. S. 29;

Ioyt v. Horne, 145 U. S. 302. The converse is equally true.
The patentee may bring the defendant within the letter of his
claims, but if the latter has so far changed the principle of
the device that the claims of the patent, literally construed,
have ceased to represent his actual invention, he is as little subject to be adjudged an infringer as one who has violated the
letter of a statute has to be convicted, when he has done nothing in conflict with its spirit and intent. "An infringement,"
says Mr. Justice Grier in Burr v. Duryee, 1 Wall. 531, 572,
"involves substantial identity, whether that identity be described by the terms, 'same principle,' same ' modus operandi,'
or any other. . . . The argument ised to show infringement assumes that every combination of devices in a machine
which is used to produce the same effect, is necessarily an
equivalent for any other combination used for the same purpose. This is a flagrant abuse of the term ' equivalent.'"
We have no desire to qualify the repeated expressions of
this court to the effect that, where the invention is functional,
and the defendant's device differs from that of the patentee

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRIAKE CO.

569

Opinion of the Court.

only in form, or in a rearrangement of the same elements of a
combination, he would be adjudged an infringer, even if, in
certain particulars, his device be an improvement upon that
of the patentee. But, after all, even if the patent for a machine be a pioneer, the alleged infringer must have done something more than reach the same result. He must have reached
it by substantially the same or similar means, or the rule that
the function of a machine cannot be patented is of no practical value. To say that the patentee of a pioneer invention
for a new mechanism is entitled to every mechanical device
which produces the same result is to hold, in other language,
that he is entitled to patent his function. Mere variations of
form may be disregarded, but the substance of the invention
must be there. As was said in Bur-r v. Duryee, 1 Wall. 531,
573, an infringement "is a copy of the thing described in the
specification of the patentee, either without variation, or with
such variations as are consistent with its being in substance
the same thing. If the invention of the patentee be a machine,
it will be infringed by a machine which incorporates in its
structure and operation the substance of the invention; that
is, by an arrangement of mechanism which performs the same
service or produces the same effect in the same way, or substantially the same way. . . . That two machines produce
the same effect will not justify the assertion that they are
substantially the same, or that the devices used are, therefore,
mere equivalents for those of the other."
Not only is this sound as a general principle of law, but it
is peculiarly appropriate to this case. Under the very terms
of the first and fourth claims of the Westinghouse patent, the
infringing device must not only contain an auxiliary valve, or
its mechanical equivalent, but it must contain the elements of
the combination "substantially as set forth." In other words,
there must not only be an auxiliary valve, but substantially
such a one as is described in the patent, i.e. independent of
the triple-valve. Not only has the Boyden patent a poppet
instead of a slide-valve- a matter of minor importance - but
it performs a somewhat different function. In the Westinghouse patent the valve is not in the line of travel between the

OCTOBER TER-,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

auxiliary reservoir and the brake-cylinder, and admits trainpipe air only. In the Boyden patent, it is in the line of travel,
both from the auxiliary reservoir and from the train-pipe, and
admits both currents of air to the brake-cylinder. The bypassageto which the auxiliary reservoir is merely an adit, is
wholly ivanting in the Boyden device, both currents of air
uniting in chamber C and passing to the brake-cylinder together, through the poppet-valve.
But a much more radical departure from the Westinghouse
patent is found in the partition 9, separating the valve-chamber C from the piston-chamber D. This partition has an aperture, B, the capacity of which is less than that of the large
passage A, and intermediate in size between that of the graduating passage 40, and that of the port covered by the valve
22. The office of this partition is thus explained by the defendants in their briefs: When the engineer's valve is thrown
wide open, the poppet-valve is lifted from its seat by the extreme traverse of the piston, and a new action takes place.
"The port of the main -valve22 is so much larger than the passage B, that the pressure in the main valve-chamber C is instantly emptied into the brake-cylinder, and, as the passage B
cannot supply air so fast as the main-valve port can exhaust
it, the pressure in the main valve-chamber suddenly drops to
about five pounds. Mleanwhile the passage A, leading from
the auxiliary reservoir to the inner end of the piston-chamber,
is so much larger than the passage B, leading from the pistonchamber to the main valve-chamber, that full reservoir pressure is maintained in the piston-chamber between the partition
9 and ,the inner side of the piston, thereby holding the piston
back firmly at its extreme traverse. But the feed-valve 26 is
now exposed on the one side to a train-pipe pressure of about
fifty-five pounds, and on the other side to a main valve-chamber pressure of only about five pounds, and therefore valve 26
is instantly forced open by the greater train-pipe pressure,
which then vents freely through the said feed valve-port into
the main valve-chamber C wherer it commingles with the auxiliary reservoir air passing through said chamber, and both airs
pass together through the port opened by the main valve 22

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

571

Opinion of the Court.

to the brake-cylinder. The whole operation is substantially
instantaneous, and the result is that the train-pipe is freely
vented at each car, the time of serially or successively applying
the brakes of the several cars from one end of the train to the
other is reduced to a minimum, and the train is quickly stopped
without shock, a result which Mr. Westinghouse did not attain
with the device of patent No. 360,070, nor did he attain it
until he had invented his later apparatus of patent No. 376,837,
not here in suit."
In a word, this partition maintains upon the outside of valve
26 a much higher pressure than upon the inside, the effect of
which is to open feed-valve 26 and admit a full volume of
train-pipe air-upon the brake-cylinder.
Conceding that the functions of the two devices are practically the same, the means used in accomplishing this function
are so different that we find it impossible to say, even in favor
of a primary patent, that they are mechanical equivalents.
While the poppet-valve, which for the purposes of this case,
we may term the auxiliary valve, is in its operation independent of the main valve, the word" independent" in the claims of
the Westinghouse patent evidently refers to a valve auxiliary
to the triple-valve, and independently located as well as operated. The difference is that in one case the air from the trainpipe is introduced into the brake-cylinder separately and independently from the air from the auxiliary reservoir; while
in the other case they unite in the chamber C and pass through
the same valve to the brake-cylinder. In the Westinghouse
patent there is one valve operated by the direct thrust of the
piston, opening a by-passage; in the other, there is a poppetvalve also opened by the piston, and another valve, 26, opened
by the pressure maintained upon the outside of the partition 9.
It is claimed, however, by the complainants that Boyden was
not the inventor of the differential pressure theory; that there
is such a differential pressure in their own patent, caused by
the fact that the air from the auxiliary reservoir in passing to
the brake-cylinder travels through a restricted port, 35, and,
as the entrance to the brake-cylinder is through a much larger
port, the air is taken up" by it much more rapidly than it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

supplied by the restricted port, which reduces the pressure in
the by-passage so much that when the quick-action valve 41 is
opened, the pressure from the train-pipe air is sufficient to
open the valve 49 and admit a full volumne of train-pipe air,
at a pressure of fifty-five pounds, to the brake-cylinder. The
fact, however, that no suggestion is made in the patent of such
a function of the restricted port 35, indicates either that none
such had been discovered, or that it was not considered of suf
ficient importance to mention it. Indeed, it seems to have
been an afterthought, suggested by the necessity of an answer
to defendants' argument, based upon their partition 9. That
when the auxiliary valve is opened there must be a difference
in pressure above and below the check-valve 49, in order to
open it, is manifest; yet, this is rather an incident to the Westinghouse device than the'controlling feature that it is made in
the Boyden patent. There is no partition in the proper sense
.of the word -certainly none located as in the Boyden device
- between the chambers D and 0, and no aperture in such
partition opened for the express purpose of maintaining this
differential pressure. If such differential pressure existed to
the extent claimed in the Westinghouse patent, it certainly
was not productive of the results flowing from the same device
in the Boyden patent.
We are induced to look with more favor upon this device,
not only because it is a novel one and a manifest departure
from the principle of the Westinghouse patent, but because
it solved at once in the simplest manner the problem of quick
action, whereas the Westinghouse patent did not prove to be
a success until certain additional members had been incorporated into it. The underlying distinction between the two
devices is that in one, a separate valve- and separate by-passage are provided for the train-pipe air, while in the other,
the patentee has taken the old triple (or quadruple) valve, and
by a slight change in the functions of two of its valves and
the incorporation of a new element, (partition 9,) has made a
more perfect brake than the one described in the Westinghouse patent. If credit be due to Mr. Westinghouse for having invented the function, Mr. Boyden has certainly exhibited

WESTINGHOUSE

e. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

573

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, JJ.

great ingenuity in the discovery of a new and more perfect
method of performing such function. If his patent be compared with the later Westinghouse patent No. 376,837, which
appears to have been the first completely successful one, the
difference between the two, both in form and principle, becomes still more apparent, and the greater simplicity of the
Boyden patent certainly entitles it to a favorable consideration. If the method pursued by the patentee for the performance of the function discovered by him would naturally
have suggested the device adopted by the defendants, that is
in itself evidence of an intended infringement; but, although
Mr. Boyden may have intended to accomplish the same results,
the Westinghouse patent, if he had had it before him, would
scarcely have suggested the method he adopted to accomplish
these results. Under such circumstances, the law entitles
him to the rights of an independent inventor.
Upon a careful consideration of the testimony we have
come to the conclusion that the Boyden device is not an infringement of the complainants' patent, and the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

SHIRAS, with

whom concurred MR.

JUsTIcE

BrEWER, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the reasoning and conclusion of
the court, and shall briefly state my views.
The history of the art discloses that the patent in suit was
what is called a "pioneer invention." In it, for the first time,
was brought to light a method or process which, by the cooperation of the air from the train-pipe with that from the
car reservoir, created the "quick action" brake. The patent,
in its specification and plaims, clearly described a machine or
mechanical combination whereby the invention was exemplified or rendered operative.
It is not an unwarrantable extension of the term to speak
of this invention in suit as a pioneer, since it is practically
conceded in this case, and justly observed by the court below,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, JJ.

"one of the highest value to the public," and conspicuously
one "which entitles the proprietor to a liberal protection from
the courts in construing the claim." The very fact that this
invention resulted in placing it within the power of an engineer, running a long train, to stop in about half the time and
half the distance within which any similar train had been
stoped, is certainly deserving of recognition. The claims of
such patents have from time out of mind been allowed a liberal construction, and considered as entitled to the fullest
benefit of the doctrine of mechanical equivalents.
It in nowise detracts from the merit of this invention that
later devices have been adopted which render its practical
operation more efficient. The very term, "pioneer patent,"
signifies that the invention has been followed by others. A
pioneer patent does not shut, but opens the door for subsequent
invention.
The particular patent in suit was, as I understand it to be
admitted, an entire success in supplying passenger trains and
short freight trains with a "quick action" brake; but while
it enabled even the longest freight trains to stop in half the
time and half the distance previously occupied, there remained
difficulties which required further devices to give to the invention the perfect success which it has now attained.
Being of the character so described as a pioneer, the patent
in suit is entitled to a broad or liberal constriction. In other
words, the invention is not to be restricted narrowly to the
mere details of the mechanism described as a means of carrying the invention into practicable operation.
I cannot assent to what is, perhaps, rather intimated than
decided in the opinion of the court that what is called a
"process in order to be patentable must involve a chemical
or other similar elemental action." The term "process" or
"method," as describing the subject of a patent, is not found in
the statutes. No reason is given in the authorities, and I can
think of none ia the nature of things, why a new process or
method may not be patentable, even though a mechanical device or a mechanical combination may be necessary to render
the new process practicable. It seems to be used by the courts

WESTINGHOUSE v. 'BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

575

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, JJ.

as descriptive of an invention which, from its novelty and priority in the art to which it belongs, is not ,to be construed as
inhering only in the particular means described, in the letters
patent, as sufficient to exemplify the invention and bring it
into practical use.
Thus in the case of Winans v. Dormead, 15 How. 330, 841,
the patent was for a new form of the body of a car for the transportation of coal, thus avoiding certain practical difficulties or
disadvantages in such cars as previously made. To the argument on behalf of the infringer, that the claib of the patent
.was confined to a single form, and only through 'and by that
form to the principle which it embodies, this court said, per
Mr. Justice Curtis:
,"It is generally triue that when a patentee describes a machine, and then claims it as described, he is understood to
intend to claim, and does by law actually cover, not only the
precise form he has described, but all other forms which embody his invention; it being a familiar rule that to copy the
principle or mode of operation described is an infringement,
although such copy should be totally unlike the original in
form or proportions.

.

.

. It is not sufficient to distinguish

this case to sav that here the invention aonsists in a change of
form, and the patentee has claimed one form only. Patentable improvements in machinery are almost always made by
changing some one. or more forms of one or more parts, and
thereby introducing some mechanical principle or mode of action not previously existing in the machine, and so securing a
new or improved result. And in, the numerous cases in which
it has been held that to copy thepatentee's mode of operation
was an infrinkement, the infringer had"got forms and proportions not described, and not in terms claimed. If it were not
so, no question of infringement could arise. If the machine
complained of were a copy, in form, of the machine described
in the specification, of course, it would be at once seen to be an
infringement. It could be nothing else. It is only ingenious
diversities of form and propoition, presenting the appearanceof something unlike the thing patented, which give rise
to questions; and the property of inventors would. be valueless

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, JJ.

if it were enough for the defendant to say: Your improvement consisted in a change of form; you describe and claim
but one form; I have not taken that, and so have not infringed.
"The answer is: My infringement did not consist in a
change of form, but in the new employment of principles or
powers, in a new mode of operation, embodied in a form by
means of which a new or better result is produced; it was this
which constituted my invention; this you have copied, changing only the form. . . . Where form and substance are
-inseparable it is enough to look at the form only. Where they
are separable- where the whole substance of the invention
may be cbpied in a different form, it is the duty of courts and
juries to look'through the form for the substance of the invention-for that which entitled the inventor to his patent, and
which the patent was designedto secure; where that is found
there is an infringement; and it is not a defence that it is embodied in a form not described and in terms claimed by the
patentee. Patentees sometimes add to their claims an express
declaration to the effect that the claim extends to the thing
patented, however its form or proportions may be varied. But
this is unnecessary. The law so interprets the claim without
the addition of these words."
.McCormickc v. Talcott, 20 How. 402, 405, was also a case of
a mechanical patent, and it was said by Mr. Justice Grier, who
delivered the opinion of the court: If the patentee "be the
original inventor of the device or machine, called the divider,
he will have a right to treat as infringers all who make dividers
operating on the same principle and performing the same functions by analogous means or equivalent combination, even
though the infringing machine may be an improvement of the
original and patentable as such."
In Aforley Sewing .Machine Co. v. Lancaster, 129 U. S. 263,
there was also a question of an alleged invention of a primary
character, and wherein the invention was embodied in a
mechanical combination; and it was held that, in a pioneer
patent, such as that of Morley, the patentee, the special
devices set forth by Morley were not necessary constituents

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

577

Dissenting Opinion: Shims, Brewer, JJ.

of the claims; that his patent was to receive a liberal construction, in view of the fact that he was a pioneer in the
construction of an automatic button sewing machine- and that
his patent was not to be limited to the particular devices or
instrumentalities described by him.
In that case extended and approving reference was made to
the case of Proctor v. Bennis, 36 Ch. Div. 740, which was a
case of. an invention embodied in a mechanical contrivance,
and the following language of Lord Justice Bowen was
quoted:
"Now I think it goes to the root of this case to remember
that this is, as was described by one of the counsel, really a
pioneer inventioh, and it is by the light of that, as it seems
to me, that we ought to consider the question whether there
have been variations, or omissions, and additions, which prevent the machine which is complained of from being an
infringement of the plaintiff's. . . . With regard to the
additions and omissions, it is obvious that additions may be
an improvement, and that omissions may be an improvement,
but the mere fact that there is an addition, or the mere fact
that there is an omission, does not enable you to take the
The question. is not
substance of the plaintiff's patent.
the omission
whether
or
material,
is
addition
the
whether
substance
the
is
taken
been
has
what
whether
but
is material,
invention."
the
of
essence
and
These were cases wherein the discovery or invention was
made effective through. achines or mechanical combinations,
and wherein it was h ld that the merit of the process or
method was not to be confined, in the case of a pioneer
patent, to the mere form described in the specification as
sufficient to make the invention practically operative.
2eilson'spatent, Web. P. C. 275, was a noted case, in which
the true distinction was drawn between a mere principle, as
the subject of a patent, and a process by which a principle
is applied to effect a new and useful result. The Court of
Exchequer, in answering the objection that Neilson's patent
was for a principle, said:
" It is very difficult, to distinguish it from the- specification
VOL. CLxx-87

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, JJ.

of a patent for a principle, and this at first created in the
minds of some 'of the court much difficulty; but after full
consideration, we think the plaintiff does not merely claim a
principle, but a machine embodying a principle, and a very
valuable one. We think the case must be considered as if the
principle being well known, the plaintiff had first invented t
,mode of applying it by a mechanical apparatus to furnaces;
and his invention consists in this- by interposing a receptacle for heated air between the blowing apparatus and the
furnace. In this receptacle he directs the air to be heated
by the application of heat externally to the receptacle, and
thus he accomplishes the object of applying the blast,
which was before of cold air, in a heated state to the furnace."
And when the case came before the House of Lords, Lord
Campbell said :
."After the construction first put upon the patent by the
learned judges of the Exchequer,

I think the patent

must be taken to extend to all machines, of whatever construction, whereby the air is heated intermediately between
the blowing apparatus and the blast furnace. That being so,
the learned judge was perfectly justified in telling the jury
that it was unnecessary for them to compare one apparatus
with another, because, confessedly, that system of conduit
pipes was a mode of heating air by an intermediate vessel
between the blowing apparatus and the blast furnace, and,
therefore, it was an infringement of the patent." Web. Pat.
Cas. 715.
Very applicable to the present case is the doctrine of
Tilghman v. Procter, 102 U. S. 707. It was there held,
overruling the case of Mitchell v. Tilghman, 19 Wall. 287,
that a patent may be validly granted for carrying a principle
into effect; and if the patentee suggests and discovers not
only the principle, but suggests and invents how it may be
applied to a practical result by mechanical contrivances and
apparatus, and shows that he is aware that no particular sort'or
modification of form of apparatus is essential to obtain benefit

-from the principle, then he may take his patent for the mode

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER. BRAKE CO.

579

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, JJ.

of carrying it into effect, and is not under the necessity of
confining himself to one form of apparatus.
Having discussed the previous cases, particularly, that of
Neilson and of O'Reilly v. .orse, 15 How. 62, Mr. Justice
Bradley said:
"'Whoever discovers that a certain useful result will be
produced in any art by the use of certain means is entitled to
,a patent for it, provided he specifies the -means.' But everything turns on the force and meaning of the word 'means.'
It is very certain that the means need not be a machine, or
an apparatus; it may, as the court says, be a process. A
machine is a thing. A process is an act, or a mode of acting.
The one is visible to the eye -an object of perpetual observation. The other is a conception of the mind, seen only by
its effects when being executed or performed. Either may be
Perhaps the
the means of producing a useful result.process is susceptible of being applied in many modes and by
the use of many forms of apparatus. The inventor is not
bound to describe them all in order to secure to himself the
exclusive right to the process, if he is really its inventor or
discoverer. But he must describe some particular mode, or
some apparatus,-by which the process can be applied with at
least some beneficial result, in order to show that it is capable
of being exhibited and performed in actual experience."
The Telephone cases, 126 U. S. 1, 532, 533, 535, contain an
apt illustration of these principles. Mr. Chief Justice Waite
in discussing the case, said:
"In this art, or, what is the same thing under the patent
law, this process, this way of transmitting speech, electricity,
one of the forces of nature, is employeit ; but electricity, left
tb itself, will not do what is wanted. The art consists in so
controlling the force as to make it accomplish the purpose.
It had long been believed that if the vibrations of air caused
by the voice in speaking could be reproduced at a distance by
means of electricity, the speech itself would be reproduced
and understood. How to do it was the question. Bell discovered that it-could . be done by gradually changing the
intensity of a continuous electric current, so as to make it

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, JJ.

correspond exactly to the changes in the density of the air
caused by the sound of the voice. This was his art. lie
then devised a way in which these changes of density could
be made and speech actually transmitted. Thus his art was
put in a condition for practical use. In doing this, both
discovery and invention, in the popular sense of those terms,
were involved; discovery in finding the art, and invention in
devising the means of making it useful. For such discoveries
and such inventions the law has given the discoverer and
inventor the right to a patent -as
discoverer, for the useful
art, process, method of doing a thing he has found; and as
inventor, for the mearis lie has devised to make the discovery
one of actual value. . . . The patent for the art does not
necesarily. involve a patent for the particular means employed
for using it. Indeed, the mention of any means, in the specification or descriptive portion of the patent, is only necessary
to show that the art can be used ; for it is only useful arts
arts which may be used to advantage -that can be made the
subject of a patent. The language of the statute is that 'any
person who has invented or discovered any new and useful
art, machine, manufacture or composition of matter,' may
obtain a patent therefor. Rev. Stat. § 4886. Thus, an art a process - which is useful, is as much the subject of a patent,
as a machine, manufacture or composition of matter.
But it is insisted' that the claim cannot be sustained, because
when the patent was issued Bell had not in fact completed
his discovery. While it is conceded that he was acting on
the right principles, and had adopted the true theory, it is
claimed that the discovery lacked that practical development
which was necessary to make it patentable. In the language
of counsel, 'there was still work to be done, and work calling
for the exercise of the utmost ingenuity, and calling for the
very highest degree of practical invention.' It is quite true
that when Bell applied for his patent he had never actually
transmitted telegraphically spoken words so that they could
be distinctly heard and understood at the receiving end of
his line, but irt his specification he did describe, accurately
and with admirable clearness, his process, that is to say, the

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BDAKE CO.

5S1

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, JJ.

exact electrical condition that must be created to accomplish
his purpose, and he also described with sufficient precision to
enable one of ordinary skill in such matters to make a form
of apparatus which, if used in the way pointed out, would
produce the required effect, receive the words, and carry them
to and deliver them at the appointed place. The particular
instrument which he had and which he used in his experiments did not, under the circumstances in which it was tried,
reproduce the words spoken so that they could be clearly
understood, but the proof is abundant and of the most convincing character that other instruments, carefully constructed
and made exactly in accordance with. the specification, without any additions whatever, have operated' and will operate
successfully. . . . The law does not require that a discoverer or inventor, in order to get a patent for a process,
must have succeeded in bringing his art to the highest degree
of perfection. It is enough if he describes his method with
sufficient clearness and .precision to enable those skilled in the
matter to understand what the process is, and if he points out
some practicable way of putting it into operation.
Surely a patent for such a discovery is not to be confined to
the mere means he improvised to prove the reality of his
conception."
The conclusion justified by.the authorities is that whether
you call Westinghouse's discovery, that "quick action" may
be accomplished by the co6peration of the main pipe air and
that from the car reservoir, a process, or a mode of operation,
yet if he was the first to disclose it and to describe a inechanical means to give practical effect to the invention, he must be
regarded as a pioneer inventor, and ad entitled to protection
against those who, availing themselves of the discovery, seek
to justify themselves by pointing to mere differences in form
in the mechanical devices used.
Much stress was laid in the argument on an alleged disclaimer by the patentee while the application was pending in
the Patent Office, whereby it is said Westinghouse must be
understood to have abandoned the second claim, or, at any
rate, to have consented that .that claim should be interpreted

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Shims, Brewer, JJ.

by the courts as if it contained an auxiliary valve as a material
element in the claim.
Tiere are cases, no doubt, in which it has been held that
when a claimant has, under objection in the Patent Office,
withdrawn certain claims, or has modified them by adding or
striking out terms or phrases, and accepts a patent which does
not grant the abandoned or unmodified claims, he cannot be
heard to insist upon such a construction of the allowed claims
as would cover what had been previously rejected. Slepardv.
Carrigan, 116 U. S. 593; Roemer v. Peddie, 132 U. S. 313; Corbin. Gabinet Lock Co. v. Eagle Lock Co., 150 U. S. 38.
An examination of the cited cases, however, will disclose,
as I think, that they turned upon matters of construction. In"
other words, were cases where it was questionable what the
patent, as actually granted, meant. In such cases, as in other
cases of ambiguity, it may be allowable to consult the application and file wrapper, and possibly written communications,
which may throw light upon claims that are ambiguous or
capable of different constructions.
But where the claims allowed are not uncertain or ambiguous, the courts should be slow to permit their construction of'
a patent, actually granted and delivered, to be affected or controlled by alleged interlocutions between the ofcfiers in the
Patent Office and the claimant. No dbubt, in proceedings to
revoke or cancel a patent granted by inadvertence or by fraudulent representations, it would be competent to show what had
taken place in the Patent Office pending the application. But
when we consider that often the employ4s in the Patent Office
are inexperienced persons, and that the mass of the business
is so vast that it is impossiblh for the Commissioner or the Chief
Examiner to review it, except in a perfunctory way, it can be
readily seen how dangerous it would be to modify or invali(late a patent, clear and definite in its terms, by resorting to
such uncertain sources of information.
However this iiay be, I do not perceive that the matters
alleged in the present case are entitled to any weight in the
construction of the patent. Even if the letter of the claimant's attorfiey, written on January-19, 1887, can be looked to

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

583

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Brewer, JJ.

as helping us to understand the meaning of a patent granted
as to
on March 29, 1887, it only appears to be an argument
the meaning or legal effect of the language used in the
claims, and does not amount to a withdrawal or modification of them.
Accordingly the second claim of the patent is before us
for construction on its own terms, and, to avoid protracting
this discussion, the opinion of Judge Morris in the Circuit
Court is referred to and adopted as a sound construction of
that claim. 66 Fed. Rep. 997. This claim is not, as I read
it, open to the objection that it aims to patent a principle. It
sets forth the discovery that by a coperation of the air from
the auxiliary reservoir and that from the main air-pipe, the
action of the brakes is quickened and the air vented from the
main air-pipe directly to the brake-cylinder.
But, even if the second claim must, as argued in the opinion
of the court, be read, by reason of the letter of the claimant's
attorney, as if it called for the auxiliary valve described in the
first and fourth claims, and even if, when not so read, it can
be regarded as void because simply for a function or principle, nevertheless the invention, as described in the, other
claims and specifications, is clearly set forth, and, under the
evidence as to the state of the art, is entitled to be regarded
as a pioneer. Regarding the second claim as a mere statement of the idea or invention and the other claims as
describing a form or combination of mechanism which embodies the invention and renders it operative, all the requisites
of the law are sufficiently complied with.
The only remaining question is that of the infringement,
and that is readily disposed of. For it is conceded in the
opinion of the majority of the court that, if the patent in suit
is entitled to a broad construction as a pioneer, embodying a
new mode of operation, not limited to the particular means
described in the specification, then the defendant's device is
an adoption of the idea or principle of the Westinghouse
patent with a mechanical equivalent or substitute for the auxiliary valve.
Upon the whole I am of the opinion that the decree of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
I Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court of Appeals should be reversed and that the
cause should be remanded with directions to restore the decree
of the Circuit Court.
AIR. JUSTICE GRAY and IIR. JUSTICE MOcKENNA also dissented
from the opinion and from the decision of the court.

FINK v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 120. Argued April 28, 1S9S.-Decided May 23, 1$98.

Muriate of cocaine is properly dutiable under paragraph 74 of the tariff act
of October 1, 1890, and not under paragraph 76 of that act.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr.Albert Com8toek for appellants.
Ji. Assistant Attorney General Hoyt for appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This record presents for'consideration certain questions of
law certified to this court by the Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit. The certificate and questions therein stated
are-as follows:
"A judgment or decree of the Circuit Court of the Utnited
States for the Southern District of New York having been
made and entered February 4, 1895, by which it was ordered,
adjudged and decreed that there was no error in certain proceedings herein before the board of United States general
appraisers, and that their decisions herein be, and the same
are hereby, in all things affirmed, and an appeal having been
taken from said judgment or decree to this court by the
above-named appellants, and the cause having come on for

