OCTOBER TERMYf, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. WINSTON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOIR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 205. Submitted April 14, 1898. -Decided May 9,1898.
The boundaries pf his district are the limits of the official duties of a District
Attorney, and if he is- called upon by the Attorney General to do professional duty and services for the Government outside of those liniits, and
is allowed compensation therefor, he is entitled to receive the same, or
to recover it in the Court of Claims if he has the certificate required by
Rev.Stat. ยง 365, or if the court may, from all the evidence before It,
fairly assume that the allowance was made in such a way as to secure to
him the compensation to which he was entitled.
United States v. Crosthwaite, 168 U. S. 375, is adhered to, and the rule laid
down in it is not qualified in the least by this decisiorl,
THE defendant in error, who had been the District Attorney of the United States for the District of Washington from
February 19, 1890, to May 30,. 1893, brought this action in
the Circuit Court to recover for special services as an attorney,
rendered durifig that period, and there recovered a judgment.
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit struck out one
claim which had been allowed, but otherwise affirmed the
judgment. 44 U. S. App. 401. Whereupon the United States
sued out this writ of error.
The Government concedes that some of the items included
in the judgment of the Court of Appeals are correct, and disputes only three. With respect to one of these disputed
items, the Circuit Court made the following finding of fact:
"4. That during said term of office, to wit, about the
month of April, 1892, plaintiff, at the request of the defendant, appeared in the Circuit Court of Appeals, Ninth Judicial
Circuit, at San Francisco, in a case wherein the defendant
was appellee, and the owner of the steam tug 'Pilot' was
appellant, and as such attorney conducted the trial of said
cause to its conclusion for the defendant. That the Attorney
General of the United States allowed plaintiff for services in
said cause the sum of $400, the law, providing no specifi com-

UNITED STATES v. WINSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

pensation, and that said services were reasonably worth said
sum. Of this sum defendant paid plaintiff $212.79, retaining the balance of $187.21 on account of excess of earnings
above the maximum of personal compensation and emoluments which the law permitted-the plaintiff to receive for the
year in which these services were rendered and the money
earned."
The other items are substantially, similar, and it is, therefore, unnecessary to state the particular facts as to them.
XM. Assi.tant Attorney General Pradt for the plaintiffs in
error.
.Mr. Patrick H. Winston and .Mr. Alexander X, Winstom
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

Is a District Attorney entitled to extra compensation for
services rendered under the direction of the Attorney General
in the-conduct of a government case in the Court of Appeals?
Section 767, Revised Statutes, provides that"There shall be appointed in each district, except in the
middle district of Alabama and the northern district of
Georgia and the western district of South Carolina, a person
learned in the law to act as attorney of the United States in
such district."
Section 771 is-

"It shall be the duty of every district attorney to prosecute in his district all delinquents for crimes and offences
cognizable under the authority of the United States, and all
civil actions in which the United States are concerned, and,
unless otherwise instructed by the Secretary of the Treasury,
to appear in behalf of the defendants in all suits or proceedings pending in his district against collectors or other officers
of the revenue for any act done by them, or for the recovery
of any money exacted by or paid to such officers and by them
paid into the Treasury."

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

These two sections define the place, character and extent
of his duties. He is 'the District Attorney of the United
States in the district. So far as locality is concerned, the
boundaries of the district, are the limits of duty. Within
these. boundaries .he is to discharge all his official duties.
Beyond them he is not called to go. Sections 773, 7714 and
.775*prescribe some details in respect to the duties enjoined
bysection 7'1, but do not add to their scope.
.The suit in the Court of Appeals in which the plaintiff
rendered services was not one then 'pending in his district.
The -sessions of that court'were held in San Francisco, in the
Northern-District of California. i ut, wherever-held, the Court
of Appeals is not a court in or for any district. The act creating that. court (26 Stat. 826, c. 517) does not create a court
in or for a district, but otie in and for each circuit. The
relations of that court to a district are similar to those of this
court. The Supreme Court is not a court in or of or for a
district, but in and of and for the United States as a -whole.
The fact that this case was originally pending in the Circuit
or District Court of the District of Washington does not make
the Court of Appehls a court'of that district when engaged in
hearing the case on appeal. The case when it reached the
Court of Appeals'passed out of the courts of the district, just
as fully as if appealed to thi court. In other words, when
a case is transferred to the Court of Appeals or to this court
it passes beyond the limits within which a' district attorney
has jurisdiction-and exercises his powers.
When a case in which the Government is interested comes
to this court from any lower court it falls by the terms of
the statute within the special care of the Attorfey General.
Section 359, Rev. Stat., provides:
"Except when the Attorney Generaf in particular cases
otherwise directs, the Attorney General and Solicitor General
shall conduct and argue suits and writs of error and appeals
in the Supreme Court and suits in the Court -f Claims in
which the United States is interested, and the Attorney General may, whenever he deems it for the interest of the United
States, either in person conduct and argue any case in any

UNITED STATES v. WINSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

court- of the United States in which the United States is
interested, or may direct the Solicitor General or any officer
of the Department of Justice to do so."
Under this section the Attorney General may, in his discretion, make other arrangements for the management of such
a case, but this discretion does not abridge the fact that the
full responsibility and control are imposed directly upon him
as the head of the Department of Justice. In the act creating the Court of Appeals there is no special direction to any
attorney to represent the Government. Clerks and marshals
were provided for, but the act is silent as to who shall represent the Government as its counsel. Undoubtedly, however,
the matter falls within the general jurisdiction-of the Department of Justice, and the Attorney General, by virtue of section
359 or sections 362 and 363, may either himself assume the
management of all Government cases, or direct what officer
shall have the control and management, or, if lie deems it
essential, employ special counsel. Whenever the Attorney
General calls upon a district attorney to appear for the Government in a case pending in the Court of Appeals, he is not
directing him in the discharge of his official duties as district
attorney, but is employing him as special counsel. The duties
so performed are not performed by him as district attorney,
but by virtue of the special designation and employment by
the Attorney General, and the compensation which he may
receive is not a part of his compensation as district attorney
or limited by the maximum prescribed therefor. It seems to
us that this is the clear import of the statutes, and we have
no difficulty in agreeing with the Court of Appeals in its
opinion upon this question.
A more difficult matter is presented by these facts. Section
365, Revised Statutes, provides:
"No compensation shall hereafter be allowed to any person,
besides the respective district attorneys, and assistant district
attorneys, for services as an attorney or counsellor to the
United States, or to any branch or department of the Government thereof, except in cases specially authorized by law, and
then only on the certificate of the Attorney General that such

OCTOBER TER-M, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

services were actually rendered, and that the same could not
be performed by the Attorney General or Solicitor General,
or the officers of the Department of Justice, or by the district
attorneys."
We held in United States v. Crosthwaite, 168 U. S. 375,
that this section is controlling, and that "the certificate of
the Attoiney General prescribed therein, which even that
officer cannot dispense with, is a prerequisite to the allowance
of compensation." There is in this record no finding that
this particular certificate was ever made, iior on the' other
hand is there anything, to suggest that it was not made. It
does appear affirmatively that the Attorney General allowed
plaintiff for his services, the law providing no specific compensation, and that the services were reasonably worth the sum
so allowed. We find no reference anywhere in the pleadings,
the findings or the opinion of the Circuit Court, or in that of
the Court of Appeals, to the particular terms of the certificate
,called for by this section. The language of its findings 6md
opinion seems, however, to indicate that the Circuit Court
found that proper certificates were given, and that everything
necessary to ehtitle plaintiff tb extra compensation had been
performed, providing the case. was. one in which he could
receive such compensation and iii which the services rendered
were not included within his duties as district attorney. We
are strengthened in this conclusion by the fact that neither
in the assignments of error made when the case was taken to
the -Court of Appeals nor in those filed when the case was
brought here is there a suggestion that any certificate was
lacking or deficient. It seems to us, therefore, that when it
is expressly found that the Attorney General allowed this
claim, and no showing is made of the particular form in which
the allowance was made, or certificate given, and no assigninent of error raises a question as to the sufficiency of any
certificate, we have a right to assume that the allowance was
made in such a way as to secure to the plaintiff the compensation to which he was entitled. And so, although we adhere
to the rule laid down in United States v. Crosthwaite,supra,
and. do not intend to qualify it in the least, we think a

UNITED STATES v. GARTER.
Counsel for Parties.
fair conclusion from this record is that the proper certificate
was given.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals will, therefore, be

Ajfirmed.
UNITED STATES V. HERRON. Appeal from the Court of Claims.
:No. 272. Submitted with No. 205.
MR. JusTicE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court. This
case, like the preceding, is one for the recovery by a district attorney for services rendered in a Court of Appeals outside the limits
of his district. But in this record there is a distinct finding by
the Court of Claims that the certificate required by section 365,
Revised Statutes, was not given. - Ve are constrained, therefore,
under United States v. Crosthwaite, 168 U. S. 375, to hold that the
judgment cannot be sustained.

The order will be that the judgment be reversed and the case remanded to the Court of Claimsfor fartherproceedings.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Pradt for appellants.
Mrt. Tir T. Dudley, Mir. L. T. .3fichener and Mr. F. P. Dewees
for appellee.

UNITED STATES v. GARTER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted April 14, 1S. -Decided

May 9, 1S93.

It is not part of the official duties of the District Attorney of the district,
in which, at the time, a session of the Court of Appeals is held, to assume
the management and control of the government cases in that court.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Mi. Assistant Attorney General Pradt for appellants.
-Mr. T. TV. Dudley, Mr. L.
Dewees for appellee.

. Michener and IMr. F.

T.

