OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
I Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court of Appeals should be reversed and that the
cause should be remanded with directions to restore the decree
of the Circuit Court.
AIR. JUSTICE GRAY and IIR. JUSTICE MOcKENNA also dissented
from the opinion and from the decision of the court.

FINK v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 120. Argued April 28, 1S9S.-Decided May 23, 1$98.

Muriate of cocaine is properly dutiable under paragraph 74 of the tariff act
of October 1, 1890, and not under paragraph 76 of that act.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr.Albert Com8toek for appellants.
Ji. Assistant Attorney General Hoyt for appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This record presents for'consideration certain questions of
law certified to this court by the Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit. The certificate and questions therein stated
are-as follows:
"A judgment or decree of the Circuit Court of the Utnited
States for the Southern District of New York having been
made and entered February 4, 1895, by which it was ordered,
adjudged and decreed that there was no error in certain proceedings herein before the board of United States general
appraisers, and that their decisions herein be, and the same
are hereby, in all things affirmed, and an appeal having been
taken from said judgment or decree to this court by the
above-named appellants, and the cause having come on for

FINK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

hearing and argument in this court, certain questions of law
arose concerhing which this court desires the instruction of the
Supreme Court of the United States for its proper decision.
The facts out of which such questions arose are as follows:
"The firm of Lehn & Fink imported into the port of New
York, on April 6, 1894, certain parcels of muriate or hydrochlorate of cocaine in crystals, on which duty was exacted at
twenty-five per cent, ad valorem, under paragraph 76 of the
tariff act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26 Stat. 567, as a chemical salt. The importers duly and seasonably protested against
such exaction, upon the ground that the merchandise was
dutiable at fifty cents per pound under paragraph 74 of the
same act as a medicinal preparation in the preparation of
which alcohol is used. After decisions by the board of general appraisers and by the United States Circuit Court of New
York the question duly came by appeal from the decision of
the Circuit Court to this court.
"Paragraphs 74 and 76 of said act are as follows:
"' 74. All medicinal preparations, including medicinal proprietary preparations, of which alcohol is a component part,
or in the preparation of which alcohol is used, not specially
provided for in this act, fifty cents per pound.'
"'76. Products or preparations known as alkalies, alkaloids, distilled oils, essential oils, expressed oils, rendered oils
and all combinations of the foregoing, and all chemical compounds and salts, not specially provided for in this act, twentyfive per centum ad valorem.'
"M uriate of cocaine is an alkaloidal salt and is a chemical
salt produced by combination of the alkaloid cocaine and muriatic acid. Salts are either alkaloidal or alkaline, produced
by combination of either alkaloid or alkalies with acids. In
its preparation alcohol is necessarily used as a solvent. Muriate of cocaine is a medicinal preparation and is known as such
by the physician, the chemist, the druggist and in commerce,
and was so known definitely, generally and uniformly at and
prior to the enactment of the tariff law of 1890. The term
'salts' or 'chemical salts' is a generic term and includes a
commercial class of articles known by chemists and by phar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

macists and druggists at the date of the passage of the tariff
act as covering, among others, muriate of cocaine. The commercial meaning of the term 'medicinal preparation' is the same
as its ordinary meaning, viz., a substance used solely in medicine and prepared for the use of the apothecary or physician
to be administered as a remedy in-disease. Aluriate of cocaine
is dispenged in the form in which it is imported, or more often
reduced therefrom to a powder by means of a inoitar and
pestle, or diluted in water or admixed with inert or neutral
matter.
"The number of chemical salts is excessively large. A very
small proportion of this number is used in medicine or as
medicinal preparations. There is no adequate testimony in
regard to the relative number of imported or importable medicinal preparations in the preparation of which alcohol is
used, and-of imported or importable chemical salts. The testimony does not disclose which paragraph includes the greater
number of articles.
"Upon the foregoing facts the questions to be certified are:
"1. Is muriate of cocaine properlV, dutiable under paragraph
74 of the tariff act-of October 1, 1890 ?
"12. Is muriate of cocaine properly dutiable under'paragraph
76 of the tariff act of October 1, 1890?
"And to that end this court hereby-certifies such questions
to the Supreme Court of the United States."
I There can be no doubt that the article in question
from
some poits of consideration might be classified under either
of the paragraphs of the statute referred to in the certificate.
Thus, within the purview of paragraph 74, it is obviously a
medical preparation,.in the preparation of which alcohol is
used. It is also equally clear that it is likewise, chemically
speaking, a salt, and hence within the reich of paragraph 76.
It would then follow that if either of the paragraphs stood
alone in the statute, disembarrassed of the provisions found in
'the other, the preparation might properly come under the
head of either. Being reached, then, in some of its aspects
by some of the provisions found in both paragraphs, the question is, which, if either of the two, is so dominant in its con-

FINK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

trol of the article in question as to exclude the operation
thereon of the other. The rule is that this, if possible, is to
be determined by ascertaining whether one of the two paragraphs is more definite in its application to the article in
question than is the other. Isaac v. Jonas, 148 U. S. 648;
Bogle v. .Alagone, 152 U. S. 623. Being a medicinal preparation, made as such and solely used as a medicine, the language of paragraph 74 clearly more definitely applies to it
than does the generic provision "of chemical compounds and
salts" found in paragraph 76. Magone v. Heller, 150 U. S.
70; Robertson v. Salomon, 130 U. S. 412. The fact that the
certificate states that "muriate of cocaine is a medicinal preparation, and is known as such by the physician, the chemist,
the druggist and in commerce, and was so known definitely,
generally and uniformly at and prior to the enactment of the
tariff law of 1890," becomes a factor, adding cogency-to the
demonstration that the article falls with more definite certainty under the classification of a medicinal preparation than
it does under that of a chemical salt. De Jonge v. iifagone,
159 U. S. 562; Berbecker v. Robertson, 152 U. S. 373; Rob-

ertson v. Salomon, 130 U. S.412. And the force of this view is
not weakened by the statement in the certificate that the term
"'salts,' or 'chemical salts' is a generic term, and includes
a commercial class of articles known by chemists and by pharmacists and druggists at the date of the passage of the tariff
act as covering, among others, muriate of cocaine." In reason,
the result of the certified facts is simply this, that muriate of
cocaine is in its narrow aspect a medicinal preparation, in its
wider a chemical salt, and hence that chemical salt is a
generic term designating all articles of that character, and
hence embracing muriate of cocaine as the genus, must as a
matter of course contain within itself the species which are
embodied in it. In its ultimate analysis, therefore, the question asked is only this: Is the genus, chemical salt, more comprehensive than the species, muriate of cocaine?
Thus understood, it becomes of course necessary to answer
the first question in the afirmative and the second in the
negative, and it is so ordered.

