OCTOBER TERMS, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

WILLIAMS, TREASURER, v. EGGLESTON.'
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF ERRORS OF THE STATE

OF

CONNECTICUT.
No. 210

Argaed April 19, 20, 1698.-Decided May 2, 1898.

The legislation of the State of Connecticut whereby the franchise and prop-

erty of a company which had constructed and was maintaining a toll
bridge across the Connecticut at Hartford were condemned for public
use, and the cost was apportioned between the State and the town of

Glastonbury and four other municipal corporations in proportions determined by the statutes, and the proceedings had under this ano subsequent legislation set forth in the statement of the case and the opinion of
the court, did not violate any provisions of the Federal Constitution.

FOR three quarters of a century prior to 1887 the Hartford
Bridge Company had under a charter from the State, (Priv.
Laws Conn. vol. 1, p. 264, Resolve of October, 1808), maintained a toll bridge over the Connecticut River at the city of
Hartford. It also maintained on the cast side of the bridge
and connected therewith a causeway across the lowlands adjacent to the river.
Oi, IMay 19, 1887, the legislature of the State passed an act
making said bridge and causewa a free public highway, aiid
providing for: the conde:nnation of the franchise aid other
property of the bridgte company. (Pub. Ac's ('inn. 1867,
chap. 126, p. 7:,.) IProceedings were directed to be instituted
in the Superior Coinrt of the county of Hartford for ascertaining the value of thme property, determining the towns
benefited by the establishirment of the public hig-liways, and
apportioning the assessed dammtges. In this proceeding the
damages assessed to the bridge company were $210,000, and
apportioned between five towns, as follows: To the town of
Hartford, ninety-five two hundred and tenths ; East Hartford,
sixty-six two hundred and tenths; Glastonbury, twenty-five
two hundred and tenths, and the towns of South Windsor and
Manchester each twelve two hundred and tenths.
1 This case, as reported in the Connecticut Reports, was entitled Morgan

G. Bulkeley et al. v. Saamuel H. Williams, Treasurer.

WILLIAMS v. EGGLESTON.
Statement of the Case.

The State, however, appropriated out of its treasury 40 per
cent of the entire amount, to wit, $84,000, leaving the balance
to be paid by these several towns, and such sums were paid.
The act also provided that this public highway should thereafter be maintained by the towns assessed in proportion to
their assessments, and that the first selectman of each of said
towns should become ex officio member of a board, constituted
a body politic and corporate, and charged with this duty of
care and maintenance.
On June 29, 1893, the legislature passed an act providing
that said bridge and causeway should thereafter "be maintained by the State of Connecticut at its expense;" and that
the Governor, with the consent of the senate, should appoint
three commissioners, who should constitute "a board for the
care, maintenance and control" of such bridge and highway.
(Pub. Acts Conn. 189.3, oh. 239, p. 395.) The bridge was a
covered wooden bridge, which had been in existence for many
years. On November 13, 1894, that board, acting through a
majority of its members, made a contract with the Berlin Iron
Bridge Company for the construction of a new bridge to cost
$275,900. Some work had been done and some material furnished by the company, when on May 17, 18S5, the old
wooden bridge was entirely destroyed by fire. A week thereafter, and on May 24:, 1895, the legislature passed an act (Pub.
Acts Conn. 1S95, ch. 168, p. 530) repealing the act of June
29, 1893, and directing that thereafter the five towns which
had been assessed for the benefits accruing from the establishment of the public highway should maintain that highway,
each of them bearing the share of the expense thereof fixed in
the assessment proceedings. By the same act a commission
was appointed to hear and determine all legal claims and demands (that of the Berlin Iron Bridge Company being specially named) arising under or by virtue of any contract made
and executed by the board appointed under the act of 1893.
The act provided that if the award of such commission was
less than $40,000 the comptroller should draw his warrant on
the treasurer for the amount thereof, to be paid upon the
delivery of proper receipts, releases and discharges. It also
VOL. CLXx-20

OCTOBER TERIM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

provided that if any party, particularly the Berlin Iron Bridge
Company, should not be satisfied with the decision of said
commission it might within three years commence and prosecfite a suit against the State in the Superior Court of Hartford County for any legal claim, debt or demand arising under
or by virtue of any valid contract mafle and executed by said
board, and that in any event such Berlin Iron Bt'idge Company should be entitled to recover for all material furnished
and all expenses of every kind actually incurred under said
contract, including therein all legal and personal expehses;
that on final judgment being rendered in such suit the comptroller should draw his order on the treasurer for the amount
of the judgment; and further, if the contract which had been
entered into should be declared valid and binding, the comptroller should carry out and complete the contract according
to its provisions and draw his orders on the state treasurer
for the cost thereof. Under this act the Berlin Iron Company
presented its claim to the commission, which, on December 7,
1895, awarded to it the sum of $27,526. On December 13,
1895, the directors of the Berlin Iron Bridge Company voted to
accept this award, and on the same day the company received
the money and executed its release in the following words:
HARTFORD, CONN., December 13, 1895.
"'Received of the State of Connecticut the sum of twentyseven thousand five hundred and twenty-six dollars in full of
award made on the 7th day of December, 1895, by Hon.
Dwight Loomis, Hon. Benj. P. Afeade, comptroller, and Hon.
George W. Hodge, treasurer of the State of Connecticut, acting
as a commission constituted by chapter 168 of the Public Acts
of 1895, and all other claims presented by this company to said
commission are hereby withdrawn, and this payment is received
in full satisfaction and discharge of all claims and demands of
every nature which this company has or ought to have, arising
under or by virtue of any contract made and executed by the
commission appointed under chapter 239 oftbe Public Acts of
1893 with this company, and the within contract is hereby
surrendered to the State of Connecticut."
"$27,526.

WILLIAMS v. EGGLESTON.
Statement of the Case.

On June 28, 1895, the legislature passed an act (Special Acts
Conn. ch. 343, p. 485), the first section of which is as follows:
"SEMrbON 1. That the towns of Hartford, East Hartford,
Glastonbury,'Manchester and South Windsor be, and they are'
hereby created a body politic and corporate, with power to sue
and be sued. under the name of-the Connecticut River bridge
and highway district, for the construction, reconstruction,
care and maintenance of a free public highway across the
Connecticut River at Hartford and the causeway and approaches appertaining thereto, as described in a decree of the
Superior Court of Hartford County, passed on the 10th day
of June, 1889, in which decree said highway was laid out and
established."
It also created a board of corhmissioners for such district,
to consist of eight members, four from the town of Hartford
and one from each of the other towns, who were given authority to maintain such free public highway and .to erect new
bridges along or upon said highway, to reconstruct, raise and
widen the causeway and approaches appurtenant thereto or a
part of said highway, at the expense of the towns composing
the, district. In case of a vacancy in the board the vacancy
was to be filled by the town in which the retiring member
'resided. This board was authorized to issue the bonds of. the
district, if need be, to an amount not exceeding $500,000 for
the construction of a new bridge or causeway. The burden
of construction and maintenance of this' public highway was
distributed in a proportion different from that named in the
original assessment proceedings, the town of Hartford being
required to pay seventy-nine one hundredths, East Hartford
twelve one hundredths and Glastonbury, Manchester and
South Windsor each three one hundredths. For all expenditures the board was directed to draw warrants upon the -several towns, and such orders were declared sufficient authority
for ihe treasurer of each of said towns to pay the amounts
named therein, and the board was authorized to apply to any
court of competent jurisdiction for proper writs to compel the
enforcement and eecution of its orders. The board, having
expended the sum of $500 in the ordinary support and main-

OCTOBER TERMN, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

tenance of this highway, on September 14, 1895, passed a
resolution apportioning the amount, and drew a warrant on
the treasurer of the town of Glastonbury for the sum of $i5,
its proportion of the sum expended. The treasurer of that
town refused to pay this order, whereupon, on October 16,
1895, the board presented an application to the Superior
Court of Hartford County for an alternative writ of mandamus against him. The writ was answered by the treasurer,
and in his answer he set forth, among other defences, that the
act of May 24, 1895, repealing the act of June 29, 1893, was
in violation of the Constitution of the United States, section
10, Article I, because it impaired the obligation of a contract;
that the proceedings of the board were also in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, because they deprived the towns and the citizens
thereof of their property without due process of law, and
denied to them the equal protection of the laws. The Superior Court rendered judgment proforma in favor of the board,
and directed the issue of a peremptory writ of mandamus.
On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State this judgment
was affirmed, June 25, 1896, State ex ?el Bulkeley v. Tfilliacms,
Treasurer, 68 Conn. 131, whereupon this writ of error was
sued out.
ir. Lewis _. Stanton and .Mr.John R?. Buck for plaintiff in
error. Air. Olin R. Wood was on their brief.

Mr. Lewis Sperry for defendant in error. -Mr. George
.McLean and MLr. Austin Brainardwere on his brief.
Mr.. JUsTwcE 3BREwn,
opinion of the court.

.

after stating the case, delivered the

Inasmuch as the plaintiff in error, when sued in the state
court, specifically set up certain sections of the Federal Constitution as a bar to the proceedings against him, and the
judgment of the state court was that they constituted no such
bar, it is not open to question that this court has jurisdiction,
and the motion to dismiss must therefore be overruled.

WILLIAMS v. EGGLESTON.
Opinion of the Court.

The first contention of plaintiff in error is that the contract
of November 13, 1894, made between the state board and the
Berlin Iron Bridge Company, was a valid contract, and that
the two acts of May 24, 1895, and June 28, 1895, together
with the orders and proceedings of the board of commissioners
thereunder, are in violation of the tenth section of Article I
of the Federal Constitution, because they impair the obligation
of that contract. A sufficient answer to this contention is,
that the contract, if valid - and upon that we express no opinion -- was between the State of Connecticut and the Berlin
Iron Bridge Company, and that they have fully settled all differences in respect thereto. The parties to a contract are the
ones to complain of a breach, and if they are satisfied with the
disposition which has been made of it and of all claims under
it, a third party has no right to insist that it has been broken.
Counsel for plaintiff in error, conceding that an entire stranger
cannot take advantage of any breach, insist that the town,
though not a party to the contract, had .an interest in its execution, for if it had been executed and the new bridge constructed and paid for by the State, the town would not now
be under any obligations to assist in the construction of the
new bridge. But this results, not from the mere adjustment
between the State and the Berlin Iron Bridge Company, but
by reason of the fact that the legislature, in the exercise of its
unquestioned powers, has seen fit to cast the burden of the
construction of a new bridge- which, as claimed, it had once
the towns. Even if the contract had been
assumed -upon
according to its terms, the legislature
effect,
into
carried
might, at the time of passing the act of 1895, have provided
that the cost of such construction should be borne by the
towns specially benefited thereby. It is not the breach of
any contract, but an independent act of the legislature which
casts the burden on the town of Glastonbury. The town is,
therefore, an entire stranger to the contract, and this contention must be overruled.
Againi-it is insisted that the plaintiff in error is denied the
equal protection of the laws because these five towns are put
into a class by themselves, organized into a single municipal

OCTOBER TER-M, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

corporation, and separated from other towns in the State by
being subjected to different control in respect to highways.
But this overlooks the fact that the regulation of municipal
corporations is a matter peculiarly within the domain of state
control; that the State is not compelled by the Federal Constitution to grant to all its municipal corporations the same territorial extent, or the same duties and powers._ A municipal
corporation is, so far as its purely municipal relations are concerned, simply an agency of the State for conducting the
affairs of government, and as such it is subject to the control
of the legislature. That body may place one part of the State
under one municipal organization and another part of the State
under another organizittion oflan entirely different character.
These are matters- of a purely local nature, in respect to which
the Federal Constitution does not limit the power of the State.
"Whether territory shall be governed for local purposes by a
county, a city or a township organization, is one of the most
usual and ordinary subjects of state legislation." Kelly v. Pittsburgh, 104: U. S. 78, 81: See also .Forsyth v. flammond, 166
U. S. 506, 518, 519, and cases cited in the opinion; I Dillon on
Municipal Corporations, 4th ed. Vol. 1, p. 52, anol follqwing.
It is further contended that the acts of May 24-, 1895, and
June 28, 1895, are in donflict with that portion of the Fourteenth Amendment which forbids the depriving of any person
of life, liberty or property without due process of law, because,
first "they deprive the town of the right to perform its town
duties by officers of their own choosing, which is contrary to
the settled practice, and lair of the State, and arbitrarily destroys the right which those .towns had before tie constitution
of Connecticut was adoptd and which was not taken away
by that instrument; and, secondly, because the acts provide
for arbitrarily taking the property of the inhabitants of Glastonbury withquIn proper notice of any proceeding under which
the property is to be taken. and without opportunity to be
heard." Whatever may have been the practice of the State
in the past it cannot be doubted that the power of the legislature over all local municipal corporations is unlimited save by
the restrictions of the state and Federal 6onstitutions; and

WILLIAMS

v. EGGLESTON.

Opinion of the Court.

that these acts in no way violate any provision of the state
constitution is settled by the decision of the state Supreme
Court. Backus v. Fort Street Union, Depot Company,. 169
U. S. 557, 566, and cases cited. It is true there was a division
of opinion between the members of the state Supreme Court,
but such division, although a close ofie, does not prevent the
opinion of the majority from becoming the decision of the
court, and as such conclusive upon us. When the state court
decides that municipal corporations within the territorial
limits of the State are subject to the control of the gtate legislature, and that its act in creating for certain purposes a new
corporation, and merging therein five separate towns, was
valid, this court cannot hold that the state court was mistaken in its construction of the state cbnstitution or in its
declaration as to the extent of the power of the legislature
over municipal corporations.
Neither can it be doubted that, if the state constitution
does not prohibit, the legislature, speaking generally, may
create a new taxing district, determine what territory shall
belong, to such district and what property shall be considered
as benefited by a proposed improvement. And in so doing it
is not compelled to give notice to he parties resident within
the territory or permit a hearing before itself, one of its committees, or any other tribunal, as to the question whether the
property so included within the taxing district is in fact benefited. Spencer v. .erchant, 125 U. S. 345, 356; Parsons v.
District of Columbia, 170 U. S. 45. It should be noticed
that no question is presented as to the necessity of notice
before any property tax is cast upon the citizen. The only
question is as to the power of the legislature to cast the burden
of this improvement upon the five towns, towns which have
been already judicially determined to be towns benefited
thdreby. Although the apportionment made between the
towns was not that determined by the judicial proceedings, yet
it was one of which certainly the town of Glastonbury cannot
complain, for the judicial apportionment was as to it reduced
by the legislative act. In casting this burden upon the towns
the legislature did not proceed without a hearing from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

towns, for their representatives were in the legislature and
took part in the proceedings by which the act -was passed.
So they had an opportunity to be heard, if such hearing was
necessary, prior to the enactment of the law. These are all
the questions made by counsel. We see nothing in the proceedings which can be said to be in violation of any provisions
of the Federal Constitution, and therefore the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut is

Affdrmed.

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 154.

Submitted February 23, 1898. -Decided

May 2, 1898.

In 1860 Congress granted a quantity of land in New Mexico, in fulfilment
of a grant of non-mineral lands made by Mexico before its transfer, the
land to be selected by the grantees, and the surveyor general to survey
and locate the land selected, and thus determine whether it was such as
the grantees might select. The grantees made their selection, and after
considerable correspondence as to the forms of the application and as to
the evidence that the selected lands were not mineral lands, the surveyor
general, under the direction of tie Land Department, approved the selection, and made the survey and location. The Land Department approved
the survey, field notes and plat, and the partics were notified thereof, hut
no patent was issued, as Congress had not provided for such issue. The
Land Department noted on its maps that this tract bad been segregated
from the public domain, and had become private property, and so reported
to Congress, and that body never questioned .the validity of its action.
The grantees entered into possession, fenced the tract, and paid all
taxes assessed upon it as private property by the State. Held, that the
action taken by the Laud Department was a finality, and that the title
passed, all having been done which was prescribed by the statute.
Such approval entered upon the plat in the Land Department by the surveyor general, under the directions of that department, was in terms
"subject to the conditions and provisions of section 6 of the act of
Congress, approved June 21, 1860." Held, that such limitation was
beyond the power of executive officers to impose.

