OCTOBER TER,

1897.

Syllabus.

amounts never became due, The same ruling applies to the
appropriation of $400,000 in the fifteenth article, which was
made to aid in removing the Indians to their new homes, supporting them the first year after their removal, and for other
incidental purposes contingent upon their removal.
Tliejudgment of the Court of Claims is therefore reversed,
and the case remanded with instructions to enter a new
judgment for the net amount actuolly received by the
Governmentfor the Kansas lands, without interest, less the
amount qf lands upon the basis of which settlement was
made with the Tonawandas, and other just deductions,
and for such other proceedings as may be necessary, and.
in conformity with this opinion.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE
BREwER dissented.

LEYSON v. DAVIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 517. Submitted March 14, 198.-Decided April 11, 1598.
In a suit commenced in a court of the State of Montana by the administrator of the donor of national bank stock, no written assignment having
been made, against the donee to compel the delivery of the certificates
to the plaintiff, and against the bank to require it to make a transfer of
the stock to the plaintiff, the donee set up that the gift was voluntarily
made to him by his father in his lifetime, causa mortis, and on trial it was
decided that he was the owner of such stockand of the certificates, and
was entitled to have new certificates therefor issued to him by the bank;
and a decree having been entered accordingly, it was sustained by the
Supreme Court of the State upon appeal. Held, that these matters
raised no Federal question; that no title, right, privilege or immunity
was specially set up or clhimed by the administrator under a law of the
United States, and denied by the highest tribunal of the States; and that
the controversy was merely as to which of the claimants had the superior equity to those shares of stock, and the national banking act was
only collaterally involved.

TLEYSON v. DAVIS.
Statement of the Case.

Tnis was an action commenced by the special administrator
of the estate of Andrew J. Davis, deceased, and continued in
the name of his successor, Leyson, administrator with the will
annexed, against Andrew J. Davis, Jr., and the First National
Bank of Butte, in the District Court of the State of -AMontana
for the.county of Silver Bow, to recover nine hundred and
fifty shares of the capital stock of the defendant bank, alleged
by the administrat jr to belong to the estate of the deceased,
and claimed by the defendant Davis, Jr., under a donatio
causa mortis. The prayer of the complaint was that the claim
of defendant Davis, Jr., to the stock be declared void; that he
be compelled to deliver up the certificates; and that the bank
be required to transfer the same on its books and issue new
certificates to plaintiff as administrator.
The answer of Davis, Jr.,-in addition to his defence, set up
affirmative matter, and prayed that he be adjudged the owner
of the stock; that plaintiff as administrator and.the estate be
decreed to have no right or interest therein; and that the bank
be required to make the proper transfers upon its books to him.
The bank answered that it was ready and willing to transfer
the shares of stock to the party determined by the court
entitled to the same.
The trial court found as facts, in substance, that in the latter part of December, 1889, Andrew J. Davis was, and had
been for some months, seriously and dangerously ill, suffering
from an ailment of which he died in the month of March following; that being so ill, and in view and expectation of death,
but being of sound and disposing mind, he gave to defendant
Andrew J. Davis, as a gift, the shares of stock and certificates
thereof described in the complaint, afid at the same time de'livered the certificates to said Andrew J., who then and there
received and accepted the same, and who has ever since said
gift and delivery retained and held the shares of stock and
certificates in his possession, and claimed them as his own;
that the deceased had great affection for and confidence in
defendant Andrew J., .and at the time of the gift of the stock
and certificates, and for several years prior thereto, it was and
-had been the intention of the deceased to give the stock and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Counsel for Parties.

certificates to said Andrew J.; that there was no written
assignment of the stock or certificates, or power of attorney
executed by deceased in connection with the gift, nor any
written authority empowering Andrew J., or any other person for him, to transfer the stock and certificates on the books
of the bank during the lifetime of the donor, and that there
was no transfer made on the books of the bank to Andrew
J.; that no other gift than the gift of the stock was made, or
attempted to be made, by the deceased to Andrew J.; that
the gift of the stock was an absolute gift, and was a valid gift
mortis cdiusa; and that defendant Andrew J. had ever since
held possession and exercised control and dominion over the
stock, with the knowledge of the donor to the time of his
death, arising and resulting only from the fact of the gift and
the donee's possession. It was, therefore, concluded that defendant Andrew J. Davis was the owner of the stock and
certificates described in the complaint, and entitled to have
the shares transferred to him on the books of the bank, and
to have new certificates issued to him therefor; that the
donor was divested of his possession, dominion and controi
of said shares of stock by the gift; that the plaintiff, as administrator, had not, nor had the estate of the deceased, any
right, title or claim in or to the shares of stock or certificates,
and that defendant Andrew J. was entitled to a decree in
accordance with the prayer of his answer.
The decree was accordingly so entered. On appeal the Supreme Court of Montana reviewed the facts and the law at
length, and elaborately discussed the authorities both in England and in this country; sustained the claim of -defendant
Davis to the stock; and affirmed the decree. 17 Montana, 220.
A writ of error from this court was thereafter allowed and
motions made to dismiss or affirm.
.A r. A. T. Britton,AMr. W. Ti. Dixon,AMr. A. B. Browne, i)t.
B. Platt Caipenter and Air. James IF. Forbis for the motions.
Air. Robert G. Ingersoll, ir. WValter S. Logan, Mr. Charles
AX. Demond, -Mr.H-enry A. Root and Mr. -. IV. Toole opposing.

LEYSON v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

Mi.

CHIEi JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Supreme Court of Montana held that as between donor
and donee a valid gift of the stock was made by the delivery
thereof, without a transfer of the shares on the books of the
bank or ipdorsement on the back of the certificates themselves,
which carried the equitable title and entitled the donee to call
for the legal title as against the representative of the donor's
estate. This conclusion was arrived at solely on principles
of general law-, and in itself involved the disposition of no
Federal question.
It is true that by section 5139 of the Revised Statutes
shares of the capital stock of national 'banks are declared to
be personal property, "transferable on the books of the association in such manner as may be prescribed in the by-laws
or articles of association;" and it is conceded by defendant in
error that by one of the by-laws of defendant bank it was
prescribed that its stock should be "assignable and transferable only on the books of this bank, subject to the restrictions
and provisions of the banking laws, and transfer books shall be
provided, in which all assignments and transfers of stock shall
be made. No transfer of stock shall be made without the
consent of the board of directors by any stockholder who
shall be liable, either as principal debtor or otherwise ;" and
that the certificates in question contained the provision:
"Transferable only by him or his attorney on the books of
this bank on the' surrender of this certificate." But these matters raised no Federal question. The rights
of third parties,' or of creditors, or of the bank, were not in
issue or determined here, but simply the equities as between
the particular parties. The representative of the donor was
manifestly bound by the donor's' valid acts, and could assert
no right superior to his. His right to make the gift was the
right to dispose of his own property, and whether as between
him-and his donee the equitable title passed was a question of
general or local law. The administrator's claim that he was
entitled t& receive the stock as representing the estate or for

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the benefit of the next of kin rested on that law as administered by the courts of the State.
So far as the act of Congress is concerned, we understand
the doctrine to be, as stated in Johnston v. Laftin, 103 U. S.
800, 804, that.: The transferability of shares in the national
banks is not governed by different rules from those which are
ordinarily applied to the transfer of shares in other corporate
bodies."
,In Black v. Zacharie,3 How. 483, 513, it was said: "It is
true that the charters of the Carrollton Bank and of the Gaslight and Banking Company provide that no transfer of the
stock of these corporations shall be valid or effectual until such
transfers shall be entered or registered in a book or books to
be kept for that purpose by the corporation. But this is
manifestly a regulation designed for the security of the bank
itself, and of third persons taking transfers of the stock without notice of any prior equitable transfer. It relates to the
transfer of the lefgal title, and not of any equitable interest in
the stock subordinate to that title. In the case of the Union
Bank of- Georgetown v. Laird, 2 Wheat. 390, this court took
notice of the-distindtion between the- legal and equitable title
in 'cases of bank stock, where the charter of the bank had
provided for the mode of transfer. The general construction
which has been put upon the charters of other banks containing similar provisions as to the transfer of their stock, is, thatthe provisions are designed solely for the safety and security
of the bank itself, and of purchasers without notice; and that
as between vendor and vendee a transfer, not in conformity
to such provisions, is good to pass the equitable title and divest
the vendor of all interest in the stock. Such are the decisions
in the cases of the Bank of Utica v. Smalley, 2 Cowen, 770,
777, 778; Gilbert v. .ManchesterIron Co., A1 Wend. 628; Coifmercial Ban.k of Buffalo v. JKortright, 22 Wendr 348, 362;
Quin-er v. Marblehead Insurance Co., 10 Rass, 476, and Sergeant v. FranklinIns. Co., 8 Pick. 90."
We cannot perceive that any title, right, privilege or immunity was specially set up or claimed by the administrator
under a law of the United States and denied by-the highest
."

BTIDZISZ v. ILLINOIS STEEL COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

tribunal of the State, which is the ground of jurisdiction relied
on. The controversy was merely as to which of the claimants
had the superior equity to these shares of stock, and the
national banking act was only collaterally involved. Conde
v. York, 168 U. S. 642; Union N'ational Bank v. Louisville
&c. Railway, 163 U. S. 325; Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361.
Writ of error dismissed.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN was of opinion that this court had ju-

risdiction and that the judgment should be affirmed.

BUDZISZ v. ILLINOIS STEEL COMPANY.
THE
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 560. Submitted February 21, 1898. -Decided

1898.
April I1,

No question is presented which brings this case within the supervisory
power of this court, as the alleged invalidities of the entries and of the
patents do not arise out of any alleged misconstruction or breach of
any treaty, but out of the alleged misconduct of the officers of the Land
Office; to correct which errors, if they exist, the proper course of the
defendants was to have gone to the Circuit Court of Appeals.

THIS was an actioh of ejectment brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States- for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, in February, 1896, by the Illinois Steel Company, a
corporation of the State of Illinois, against John Budzisz and
August Budzisz, citizens of the State of Wisconsin, to recover
certain lots or parcels of land in the fifth ward of the city of
Milwaukee. The case was so proceeded in that, on November
20, 1897, a final judgment was entered in favor of the plaintiff
for possession of the premises, and for costs. A writ of- error
was then sued out from this court, which the defendant in
error moved to dismiss.

