UNITED STATES v. SALAMBIER.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. SALAMBIER
CERTIFICATE

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 117. Submitted May 6, 1S9S. -Decided

APPEALS FOR THE

May 23,189S.

A protest by an importer, addressed to the collector and signed by the importer saying, "I do hereby protest against the rate of 50 % assessed on
chocolate imported by me, Str. La Bretagne, June 23/91. Import entry 96,656.- M. S. No. 52/53, 1 claiming that the said goods under existing laws are dutiable at 2 cts. per lb., and the exaction of a higher rate is
unjust and illegal. I pay the duty demanded to obtain possession of the
goods, and claim to have the amt. unjustly exacted refunded," is, in form
and substance a sufficient compliance with the requirements of section
14 of the act of June 10, 1890, c. 407, 26 Stat. 131, 137.

A JUDGMENT or decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York having been
made and entered on the 4th day of January, 1895, by which
it was ordered, adjudged and decreed that there was no error
in certain proceedings before the board of United States general appraisers) and that their decision be in all things affirmed,
and an appeal having been duly taken from said judgment or
decree to the Circuit Court of Appeals by the United States,
and the cause having come on for argument in that court, a
certain question of law arose concerning which that court
desired the instruction of the Supreme Court of the United
States for its proper decision.
The facts out of which the question arose are as follows:
Certain merchandise consisting of sweetened chocolate in
the form of small cakes or tablets manufactured from cocoa
sweetened with sugar, known commercially as sweetened
chocolate, was imported and entered for consumption by the
appellee, M. Salambier, from a foreign country into the port
of New York on June 23, 1891, which merchandise was classified for customs duties at fifty per cent ad valorem by the
collector of the port of New York under the provisions of
paragraph 239 of the tariff act of October 1, 1890, and the
duty was liquidated accordingly.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

The importer and appellee protested against this exaction
and duly filed the following protest:
"-EW YORK, July 26, 1891.
"Hion. JOEL B. ERHARDT, Collector.
"Sir: I do lhereby protest against the rate of 50% assessed
on cho.cdlate imported by me, Str. La Bretagne, June 23/91.
Import entry 96,656.-M. S. INo. 52/53.
"I, claiming that the said goods under existing laws are
dutiable at 2 cts. per lb., and the exaction of a higher rate is
unjust and illegal, I pay the duty demanded to obtain possession of the goods, and claim to have the amt. unjustly exacted
refunded.
M'. SALA-MrBIER,
"Very respectfully,

"1J.H. Du-,ioNT, Atty."

The collector of the port of New York thereupon transmitted the said protest with the invoice and entry to the
board of three general appraisers on duty at the port of New
York, and said board on December 10, 1892, rendered their
decision reversing the decision of the collector, and holding
that the said merchandise was dutiable at 2 cents per pound
under paragraph 319 of the tariff act of October 1, 1890, and
that the importer should not be deprived of his remedy by
reason of having failed to specifically claim classification of
the said imported merchandise as a manufacture of cocoa
under sail paragraph 319.
IFrom this decision of the board of United States general
appraisers the United States appealed to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York,
by petition, praying for a review of said decision pursuant to
section 15 of the act of June 10, 1890, claiming in their petition, among other things, that the said board were in error
in failing to hold that the protest in question was insufficient
and invalid, inasmuch as it did not set forth distinctly and
specifically the reasons for the importer's objection to the collector's decision as to the rate and amount of duties charged
upon the merchandise according to the provisions of law; also

UNITED STATES v. SALAMBIER.
Opinion of the Court.

in deciding an issue not raised by the protest or arising in the
case; also in entertaining said protest and in failing to find
the issue of law with.the collector of customs; also in reversing
the decision of the collector aforesaid in the premises.
The said Circuit Court, upon said petition, ordered the
board of United States general appraisers to return to the Circuit Court the record and the evidence taken by them, together with a certified statement of the facts involved in the
case and their decision thereon, pursuant to section 15 of the
act of June 10, 1890, and the said board of general appraisers
thereafter made such return in conformity to the order of the
court.
The case thereafter came on to be tried upon the record as
above set forth and upon the invoice and entry, before Hon.
Hoyt H. Wheeler, District Judge holding the said Circuit
Court. The Circuit Court affirmed the decision of the board
of general appraisers herein and judgment was thereupon
made and entered as above set forth, from which judgment the
present appeal was taken by the United States to this court.
Upon these facts that court desired instruction upon the following question of law for the proper decision of said cause,
namely:
" Was the protest herein above set forth a good and sufficient protest under existing law against the decision of the
collector in his assessment of duty upon the appellee's importation of sweetened chocolate, under the tariff act of October
1, 1890?
"And to that end that court hereby certifies such question
to the Supreme Court of the United States."
Mr. Assistant Attorney General ioyt for the United States.
-Mr. Edwin B. Smith for Salambier.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after- stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It was decided by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit, in United States v. S&hilling, 11 U. S.

OCTOBER TE RM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

App. 603, that "sweetened chocolate" was dutiable under
paragraph 319 of the tariff act of October 1, 1890, at the
rate of two cents per pound, as "cocoa, prepared or manufactured, not especially provided for in the act."
From that decision the United States took no appeal. In
the present case, the board of general appraisers held that
"sweetened chocolate" was dutiable at the rate of two cents
per pound under said paragraph 319. The United States appealed from the decision of the board of appraisers to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York, not on the ground that the merchandise in question was not properly dutiable, under paragraph 319, at two
cents per pound, but claiming that the protest made by the
importer against the decision of the collector, who had assessed
the sweetened chocolate, under paragraph 239 of said act, at
fifty per cent ad valorem, was not a sufficient protest under existing law. From the judgment of the Circuit Court affirming
the decision of the board of general appraisers an appeal was
taken by the United States to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and that court has certified to us the single question of the
legal sufficiency of the protest which, omitting unnecessary
words and figures, was as follows:
"I do hereby protest against the rate of 50% assessed on
chocolate-imported by me, Str. La Bretagne, June 23, '91.
I, claiming that the said goods under existing laws
are dutiable at two cents per pound, and the exaction of a
higher rate is unjust and illegal, I pay the duty demanded
to obtain possession of the goods and claim to have the amount
unjustly exacted refunded."
By the fourteenth section of an act approved June 10, 1890,
26 Stat. 131, entitled ','An act to simplify the laws in relation -to the collection of the revenues," Congress enacted "That the decision of the collector as to the rate and amount
of duties chargeable upon imported merchandise, including all
dutiable costs and charges, and as to il fees and exactions of
whatever character, (except duties on tonnage,) shall be final
and conclusive against all persons interested therein, unless
the owner, importer, consignee or agent of such merchandise,

UNITED STATES v. SALA MBIER.
Opinion of the Court.

or the person paying such fees, charges and exactions, other
than duties, shall, within ten days after, 'but not before,' such
ascertainment and liquidation of duties, as well in cases of
merchandise entered in bond as for consumption, or within
ten days after the payment of such fees, charges and exactions, if dissatisfied with such decision, give notice in writing
to the collector, setting forth therein distinctly and specifically, and in respect to each entry or payment, the reasons for
his objections thereto, and if the merchandise is entered for
consumption shall pay the full amount of the duties and
charges ascertained to be due thereon."
The three paragraphs concerned are as follows:
239. "All other confectionery, including chocolate confectionery, not specially provided for in this act, fifty per centum
ad valorem."
318. " Chocolate, (other than chocolate confectionery and
chocolate commercially known as sweetened chocolate,) two
cents a pound."
319. "Cocoa, prepared or manufactured, not specially provided for in this act, two cents per pound." 26 Stat. 581, 588.
It is not claimed on behalf of the Government in the present
case that the protest was not made in writing by a person entitled to do so; or that it was not made within due time; or
that the requisite payment under protest has not been duly
made. In other words, it is conceded that the importer,
within the time prescribed in the statute, and having paid the
full amount of the duties exacted, gaye notice in writing to
the collector that he was dissatisfied with his decision, and.
gave certain reasons for his objections thereto.
What is claimed by the Government is that the nature of
tie importer's objections to the decision of the collector was
not set forth with the distinctness and with the minnteness of
specification required by the statute.
It does not appear that the collector deemed the protest insufficient in form or unintelligible. Not complaining of any
want of distinctness in the protest, be adhered to his decision
as to the nature of the merchandise and the amount of the
duty, and, in pursuance of the statute, transmitted the protest
VOL. cLxx-40

OCTOBER TERMI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

with the invoice and entry to the board of general appraisers.
The board regarded the protest as sufficient in respect to
form and distinctness, reversed the decision of the collector
and held that the merchandise was dutiable at two cents per
pound under paragraph 319 of the tariff act.
As already stated, it is admitted by the Government that
the collector was wrong in his classification of the imported
article, and that the duty assessed by the board of general
appraisers is the one that should have been exacted from the
importer. Still, it is contended that the importer has lost his
remedy by reason of having failed to specifically claim classification of the imported merchandise as a manufacture of
cocoa under said paragraph 319.
Apart from the authorities cited, and which we shall presently examine, we have no difficulty in agreeing with the
board of appraisers, and with the Circuit Court, that the protest was, in form and substance, a reasonable compliance with
the law. The object of the statute, in requiring a protest,
was to distinctly inform the collector of the position of the
importer. In this instance, it was impossible for the collector
to have read the protest without perbeiving that his classification of the merchandise, as dutiable under paragraph 239 of
the tariff act, at fifty Per cent ad valorem, was objected to,
and that the importer claimed that, under the law, the goods
were dutiable at two cents per pound. The collector could
not have been perplexed by the omission to name the specific
paragraph which the importer sought to have applied, for
there were but two paragraphs, besides 239, which dealt
with the subject, namely paragraphs 318 and 319, and under
either of them the duty was t-hat claimed by the importer,
two cents per pound.
The conclusion thus reached is consistent with the authorities to which our attention has been called in the briefs of the
respective parties:
"We are net disposed to exact any nice precision, nor to
apply any strict rule of construction upon the notices required
under this statute. It is sufficient if the importer indicates
distinctly and definitely the source of his complaint and his

UNITED STATES v. SALAMBIER.
Opinion of the Court.

design to make it the foundation for a claim against the gov
ernment." Greely's Administrator v. Burgess, 18 How. 413.
"Persons importing merchandise are required to make their
protests distinct and specific, in order to apprise the collector
of the nature of the objection, before it is too late to remove
it, or to modify the exaction, and that the proper officers of
the Treasury may know what they have to meet, in case they
decide to exact the duties as intimated, notwithstanding the
objection, and to expose the United States to the risk of litigation." Curtis's Administratrix v. Fiedler, 2 Black, 461.
"The object of the requirement is to prevent a party, if he
suffers a mistake or oversight to pass without notice, from
taking advantage of it when it is too late to make the correction, and to compel him to discldse the grounds of his objection at the time when he makes his protest. . . . Technical precision is not required; but the objections must be so
distinct and specific, as, when fairly construed, to show that
the objection taken at the trial was at the time in the mind of
the importer, and that it was sufficient to notify the collector
of its true nature and character, to the end that he might
ascertain the precise facts, and have an opportunity to correct
the mistake and cure the defect, if it was one which could be
obviated." Davies v. Arthur, 96 U. S. 148.
"A protest is not required to be made with technical precision, but is sufficient if it shows fairly that the objection
afterwards made at the trial was in the mind of the party and
was brought to the knowledge of the collector, so as to secure
to the Government the practical advantage which the statute
was designed to secure." Arthur v. -lorgan, 112 U. S. 495.
"A protest which indicates to an intelligent man the ground
of the importer's objection to the duties levied upon the articles should not be discarded because of the brevity with which
the objection is stated." Schell's Executors v. .Fauchi, 138
U. S. 562; lleinze v. Arthur's Ex'rs, 144 U. S. 28.
In llerrman v. Robertson, 152 U. S. 521, a protest was held
insufficient, in that it failed to point out, or suggest in any
way, the provision which actually controlled, and in effect
only raised a question which of two clauses, under one or the

OCTOBER TERMf, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

other of which it was assumed that the importation came,
should govern as most applicable.
Under these and other authoritieswhich we have exam ined,
we conclude that the notice was sufflcient, and accordingly
answer the question certified to us by the Circuit Court of
Appeals in the affrmative, and it is so ordered.

UNITED STATES v. LIES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 235. Argued April 26, 1898. -Decided

May 23, 1S93.

When the Government takes no appeal from the action of the board of
appraisers upon an importer's protest, made under the act of June 10,
1890, c. 407, it is bound by that action; and in case the importer appeals
from that action, and subsequently abandons his appeal, the Government
cannot claim to be heard, but it is the duty of the court to affirm the
decision of the appraisers.

THIS case comes here by virtue of a writ of certiorari,
issued to the Circuit Cburt of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
It arose out of a conflict of views between the collector and
the importers as to the manner of classification and the rate
of duty to be imposed upon an importation of tobacco. '
The importers had imported through the port of :New York
a certain amount of leaf tobacco, which was classified for
duty by the collector of that port, a portion at 75 cents and
aioother portion at 35 cents per. pound, under paragraphs 246
and 247 of sbiedule E of the tariff act of March 3, 1883,
c. 121, 22 Stat. 488, 503. As the decision herein does not turn
upon those provisions, they are not set forth.
The importers were dissatisfied with the matter of classification and with the duties imposed, and therefore, pursuant
to section 14 of "An act to simplify the laws in relation to
the collection of revenues," approved June 10, 1890, c. 407, 26
Stat. 131, 13Y, gave notice in writing to the collector, setting

