OCTOBER

TERMI,

1897.

Syllabus.

so limited. The third of the three peculiar and distinguishing
characteristics of negotiable instruments, as stated in 1 Daniel
on Negotiable Instruments, sec. 1, is respecting the consideration, and the author says:
" As between immediate parties, the true state of the case
inay be shown and the presumption of consideration rebutted.
utiwhen a bill of exchange or negotiable note has passed to a
bona fide holder for value and before maturity, no want or
failure of consideration can be shown. Its defects perish with
its transfer ; while, if the instrument be not a bill of exchange
or negotiable note, they adhere to it in whoscsoever hands it
To hold that by this provsion the legislature intended that
the quality of negotiability should inhere in the instruments
only as between the successive holders, and not between the
inaker and any bona fide holder, cannot be justified by any
reasonable construction of the language used.
It follows from these considerations that these bonds in the
hands of the Life and Trust Company, a bona file holder,
must be adjudged the valid obligations of the county.
The judgment of the Court of zApleals i&ther'fore 9,evercd
and the judgment of the Cicuit Court is atirmed.

LEDBETTER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR

TO

TIE DISTRICT

COURT OF THE

SOUTHERN

DISTRICT

UNITED STATES FOR

'1Il

OF IOWA.

Nqo.196. Submitted April 15, 1&9Q.
- Derided May 'I3,
159S.

An indictment for a violation of the provisions of section 16 of the act of
February 8, 1875, c. 36, forbidding the carrying on of the business of a
rectifyEr, wholesale liquor dealer, etc., without first having paid the
special tax required by law, which charges the offence in the lan-uaeg of
the statute creating it, is sufficient; and it comes within the rule, well
settled in this court, that where the crime is a statutory one, it must, he
charged with precision aud certainty, and every ingredient of which it is
composed must be clearly and accurately set forth, and that even in the

LEDBETTEE

v. UNITED STATES.

Statement of the Case.
cases of misdemeanors, the indictment must be free from all ambiguity,
* and leave no doubt in the minds of the accused and of the court, of
"the exact offence intended to be charged.
Properly speaking, the indictment should state not only the county, but the
township, city or other municipality within which the crime is alleged to
have been committed; but the authorities in this particular are much
less rigid than formerly.

This was a writ of error to review the conviction of the
plaintiff in error upon an indictment found against him by
the grand jury for the Southern District of Iowa, April 28,
1896, for a violation of section 16 of the act of February 8,
1875, p. 36, 18 Stat. 307, in carrying on the business of a
retail dealer in liquors without the payment of the special tax
required by law.
Defendant was convicted upon the first count in the indictment, which reads as follows:
"The grand jurors of the United States of America duly
empanelled, sworn and charged to inquire in and for the body
of said Southern District of Iowa, at a term of the United
States District Court begun and held at Keokuk, in said district, on the 14th day of April, A.D. 1896, in the name anl
by the authority of the United States of America, upon
their oaths do find and present that Lewis Ledbetter, late of
of April, A.D.
said district, heretofore, to wit, on the -day
District of
Southern
the
in
1896, in the county'of Appanoose,
then and
did
court,
this
of
Iowa, and within the jurisdiction
the busion
carry
there wilfully, unlawfully and feloniously
special
the
ness of a retail liquor dealer without having paid
tax therefor, as required by law, contrary to the statute in
such case made and provided, and against the peace and
dignity of the United States of America."
After his conviction defendant moved for an arrest of
judgment upon the insufficiency of the indictment. This
motion was overruled, and the defendant sentenced to pay a
fine of $250 and costs of prosecution.
Defendant thereupon sued out a writ of error from this
court, assigning as error that the indictment did not state
facts constituting an offence against the laws of the United

OCTOBER TERMt, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

States, (1) because it did not set forth that the defendant sold
or offered for sale foreign or domestic spirituous or malt
liquors otherwise than as provided by law; (2) that he was
not informed with sufficient particularity as to the time and
place and means so as to apprise him of the crime of which
he was charged; and (3) that the indictment did not allege
fthat any crime had been committed at a date prior to the
finding of the indictment.
Mr. 1Y.Scott Howell and .Mr. Willian C. lowell for plaintiff in error.
-lr. Assistant Attorney General Boyd for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Defendant did not demur to the indictment, nor move to
quash, nor take advantage of its alleged insufficiency upon the
trial, but after conviction -moved in arrest of judgment upon
the ground that it failed to aver with sufficient particularity
the details of the offence, and the time and place of its
commission.
1. The principal alleged defect in the indictment is set
forth in the third, fourth and fifth assignments of error,
which charge that the indictment did not state facts which
would constitute an offence against the laws; in that it did
not allege that the defendant sold or offered for sale foreign
or domestic distilled spirits, wines or malt liquors otherwise
than as provided by law, or any of said liquors, or to whom
said liquors were sold or offered for sale, and because it did
not allege that defendants had sold or offered for sale any of
said liquors in quantities less than five wine gallons at the
same time, and because the indictment did not allege that
the defendant had not paid $25, the amount of the tax provided by the statute, and generally, because the allegations
of the indictment are only a legal conclusion, unsupported by

LEDBETTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the primary and individualizing facts which constituted an
offence, etc.
By section 16 of the act of February 8, 1875, c. 36, 18 Stat.
307, 310, under which defendant was convicted,,it is provided
that "any person who shall carry on the business of a
retail liquor dealer .
tax as required by law

.
.

without having paid the special
shall, for every such offence,

.

be fined, etc.," and the first count of the indictment charged in
the very words of this-section that the defendant "did then
and there wilfully, unlawfully and feloniously carry on the
business of a retail liquor dealer without having paid the special tax therefor, as required by law, contrary to the statute in
such case made and provided and against the peace and dignity of the United States of America."
Defendant insists that it was not sufficient to charge him
with the offence in the language of the statute, but that the
indictment should have set forth the particular facts which
showed that he was a retail liquor dealer, and should also
have averred that he had not paid the tax of $25 provided by
law.
By section 18 of the same act retail dealers in liquor are
required to pay a special tax of $25, and "every person who

sells or offers for sale foreign or domestic distilled spirits,
-wines or malt liquors, otherwise than as hereinafter provided,
in less quantities than five wine gallons at the same time,
shall be regarded as a retail dealer in liquors."
The question presented for our consideration is whether it
is sufficient to charge the offence in the language of the statute creating such offence and fixing the punishment therefor,
or whether it is necessary to charge it in the language of the
statute defining the business of a retail liquor dealer, averring
that the defendant had done the acts therein stated without
payment of the special tax, and had therefore rendered himself amenable to the punishment provided by the former
section.
We do not undertake to say that the latter would not be a
proper course, but we think an allegation in the language of
the statute creating the offence is sufficient. We have no disVOL. CLXX-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

position to qualify what has already been frequently decided
by this court, that where the crime is a statutory one it must
be charged with precision and certainty, and every ingredient
of which it is composed must be clearly and accurately set forth,
and that even in the cases of misdemeanors the indictment
must be free from all ambiguity, and leave no doubt in the
minds of the accused and the court of the exact offence intended to be charged. United States v. Cook, 17 Wall. 168,
174; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 558; United
States v. Carll, 105 U. S. 611; United States v. Simmons, 96
U. S. 366; United States v. 1hess, 12-4 U. S. 483; Pettibone v.
United States, 148 U. S. 197; Evans v. United States, 153 U. S.
584.
But we are of opinion that the statute in this case (section
16) does define the offence with the requisite precision, and
that the pleaderhas chosen the safer course in charging it in
the language of this section. The offence does not consist in
selling or offering for sale to a particular person distilled spirits, etc., in less quantities than five gallons at one time, but in
carrying this on as a business; in other words, in the defendant holding himself out to the public as elling or offering
for sale, etc. While it has been sometimes held that proof of
selling to one person was, at least, prima facie evidence of
criminality, the real offence consists in carrying on such
business, and if only a single sale were proven it might be a
good defence to show that such sale was exceptional, accidental or made under such circumstances as to indicate that
it was not the business of the vendor. United States v.
Jackson, 1 Hughes, 531; United States v. Renneeke, 28 Fed.
Rep. 847. It is quite evident that an indictment averring in
the language of section 18 that the defendant sold or offered
for sale-the liquors named, without averring that he made
this a business, and that he had not paid the special tax
required by law, would be insufficient.
In addition to this, hovever, section 18, in defining retail
dealers in liquors, declares that "every person who sells or
offers for sale foreign or domestic distilled spirits, wines or
malt liquors, otherwise than as hereinafter provided,in less

LEDBETTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

quantities than five wine gallons at the same time, shall be
regarded as a retail dealer in liquors." The statute, by the
use of the words "otherwise than as hereinafter provided,"
thus introduces an exception into the general words of the
definition, and it might be open to doubt whether an indictment which charged only the selling or offering for sale in
the language of this section should not also negative the fact
that the sale was not within such exception. The general
rule is that while the pleader is not bound to negative a
a proviso, he is bound to aver that the defendant is not
within any of the exceptions contained in the enacting clause
of the statute. United States v. Cook, 17 Wall. 168; Maxwell
Land Grant Co. v. -Dawson, 151 U. S. 586, 604; State v.
.laden, 15 M,issouri, 447; State v. Malsli, 14 R. 1. 507; State
v. Sommers, 3 Vermont, 156, 157; State v. 3unger, 15 Vermont, 290; Thomyson v. State, 37 Arkansas, 408; State v.
O'Brien, 74 Missouri, 549. The words "otherwise than as
hereinafter provided" in this section probably refer to
wholesale liquor dealers in distilled spirits, wholesale and
retail dealers in malt liquors, brewers and others who are
either exempt'from taxation or pay a different tax, and if it
were necessary to aver that the defendant was not within
either of these exceptions, the indictment might be drawn
out to an intolerable length.. Upon the other hand, when it
is averred in the language of section 16 that the defendant
carried on the business of a retail liquor dealer without
payment of a special tax, the description, though brief, is
comprehensive, although section 18 may be referred to as
defining the offence with more particularity. -But we do not
think it necessary to charge the offence in the language of
the definition. If Congress had not defined a retail liquor
dealer it would be proper to resort to a dictionary for a
definition of this term; but it is no more necessary in one
case than in another to charge the offence in the language of
the definition.
The cases wherein it is held that an indictment in the exact
language of the statute is not sufficient are those wherein the
statute does not contain all the elements of the offence, as in

OCTOBER TERIV,

1S97.

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Carll, 105 U. S. 611, where a statute against
passing counterfeit money failed to aver the scienter; but
where the statute sets forth every ingredient of the offence, an
indictment in its very words is sufficient, though that offence
be more fully defined in some other section. United States
v. Gooding, 12 Wheat. 460, 473; United States v. Wilson,
Baldwin, 78, 119; I-ess v. State, 5 Ohio, 5 ; Blarrington v.
State, 54 Mississippi, 490, 494.
Notwithstanding the cases above cited from our reports,
the general rule still holds good that upon an indictment for
a statutory offence the offence may be described in the words
of the statute, and it is for the defendant to show that greater
particulavity is required by reason of the omission from the
statute of some element of the offence. *Where the statute
completely covers the offence, the indictment need not be
made more complete by specifying particulars elsewhere
obtained. WAiting v. State, 14 Connecticut, 487; Simmons v.
State, 12 Missouri, 268; State v. Smant, 4 Rich. (S. C., 356;
Parkinsonv. State, 14 Maryland, 184.
2. The only allegation of time and place in this indictment
is that the offence was committed "on the -day of April,
A.D. 1896, in the county of Appanoose, in the Southern
District of Iowa."
Good pleading undoubtedly requires an allegation that the
offence was committed on a particular day, month and year,
but it does not necessarily follow that the omission to state
a particular day is fatal upon a motion in arrest of judgment.
Neither is it necessary to prove that the offence was committed
upon the day alleged, unless a particular day be made material
by the statute creating the offence. Ordinarily, proof of any
day before the finding of the indictment, and within the
statute of limitations, will be sufficient. Armstrong v. State,
145 Indiana, 609; Gratz v. Commonwealth, 96 Kentucky, 162;
United States v. Conrad, 59 Fed. Rep. 458; Fleming v. State,
136 Indiana, 149; State v. .lfcCarthy, 44 La. Ann. 323.
In the case under consideration the indictment was found
on the 28th day of April, 1896, and the allegation is that the
crime was committed "on the -day of April, 1896," which

LEDBETTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

must necessarily have been a day preceding the finding of the
indictment. Under such circumstances, the defendant could
not possibly have been misled by the allegation, particularly
inview of the fact that the carrying on of a business is in the
nature of a continuing offence; and while it is true that a
business can be carried on only for a single day, the ordinary
inference would be that it was carried on for a longer period.
It would seem illogical to hold that, if the offence had been
charged to have been committed upon a particular day in
April, evidence could have been given of any day within the
statute of limitations, and yet to hold that the defendant could
be misled by an averment that the offence was committed on
the-day of the'month in which the indictment was found.
3. Much the same- observations may be made with respect
to the averment of place, which was simply "in the county of
Appanoose, in the Southern District of Iowa, and within the
jurisdiction of this court."
Properly speaking, the indictment should state not only the
county, but the township, city or other municipality within
which the crime is alleged to have been committed. But the
authorities in this particular are much less rigid than formerly.
Under the early English law, where the jurymen were also
witnesses and were summoned from the vicinage, it was necessary that the locality of the crime should be stated with great
particularity in order that the sheriff might be informed from
what vicinage he should summon the jury. But this requirement was long since abolished in England by statute, and it
is not now necessary there "to state any venue in the body
of any indictment, -but the county, city or other jurisdiction
named in the .margin thereof shall be taken to be the venue
for all the facts stated in the body of such indictment."
1 Bish. Crim. Procedure, see. 368.
While in this country it is usual to state the town as well as
the county, it has not been generally deemed necessary to do
so, and most of the authorities assume that an allegation is
sufficient after verdict which shows it to hav.e been done
within the jurisdiction of the court. .Feikesv. Commonwealth,
26 Penn. St. 513; United States v. Wilson, Baldwin, 78;

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Order of the Court.

Carlislev. State, 32 Indiana, 55; State v. Goode, 24 Missouri,
361 ; State v. Smith, 5 Harr. 490; Barines v. State, 5 Yerg.
186 ; Covy v. State, 4 Port. 186; lFingardv. State, 13 Georgia,
396; State v. Warner, 4 Indiana, 604. Indeed, an indictment
charging the offence to have been committed in one town is
supported by proof that it was committed in a different town
within the same county, and within the jurisdiction of the
court. Commonwealth v. Tolliver, 8 Gray, 386; Commonwealth
v. Greed, 8 Gray, 387; Carliele v. State, 32 Indiana, 55; Commonwealth v. .avery, 101 Mass. 207; People v. Iloneyman, 3
Denio, 121.
We do not wish to be understood as approving the practice
that was' pursued in this case, or even as holding that this
indictment might not have been open to special demurrer for
insufficiency as to the allegations of time and place, but upon
motion in arrest of judgment we think it is sufficient.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

NEW YORK INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM

THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Announced May 23,1898.

The judgment and mandate in this case, 170 U. S. 1, are amended.

this case it is ordered that the judgment and mandate
be amended so as to read as follows:
"The judgment of the Court of Claims is therefore reversed
and the cause remanded with instructions to enter a new judgment for the net amount actually received by the Government
for the Kansas lands, without interest, less any increase in
value attributable to the fact that certain of these lands were
donated for public purposes, as well as the net amount which
the court below may find could have been obtained for the
lands otherwise disposed of if they had all been sold as public
lands, less the amount of lands upon the basis of which settleIN

