OCTOBER TERMf, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

other of which it was assumed that the importation came,
should govern as most applicable.
Under these and other authoritieswhich we have exam ined,
we conclude that the notice was sufflcient, and accordingly
answer the question certified to us by the Circuit Court of
Appeals in the affrmative, and it is so ordered.

UNITED STATES v. LIES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 235. Argued April 26, 1898. -Decided

May 23, 1S93.

When the Government takes no appeal from the action of the board of
appraisers upon an importer's protest, made under the act of June 10,
1890, c. 407, it is bound by that action; and in case the importer appeals
from that action, and subsequently abandons his appeal, the Government
cannot claim to be heard, but it is the duty of the court to affirm the
decision of the appraisers.

THIS case comes here by virtue of a writ of certiorari,
issued to the Circuit Cburt of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
It arose out of a conflict of views between the collector and
the importers as to the manner of classification and the rate
of duty to be imposed upon an importation of tobacco. '
The importers had imported through the port of :New York
a certain amount of leaf tobacco, which was classified for
duty by the collector of that port, a portion at 75 cents and
aioother portion at 35 cents per. pound, under paragraphs 246
and 247 of sbiedule E of the tariff act of March 3, 1883,
c. 121, 22 Stat. 488, 503. As the decision herein does not turn
upon those provisions, they are not set forth.
The importers were dissatisfied with the matter of classification and with the duties imposed, and therefore, pursuant
to section 14 of "An act to simplify the laws in relation to
the collection of revenues," approved June 10, 1890, c. 407, 26
Stat. 131, 13Y, gave notice in writing to the collector, setting

UNITED STATES v. LIES.
Statement of the Case.

forth therein, by way of protest, distinctly and specifically,
the reasons for their objections. Section 15 of the same act
provides for a further review.
The sections of the act, so far as material, are set forth in
the margin.'
1 SEC. 14. That the decision of the collector as to the rate and amount
of duties chargeable upon imported merchandise, including all dutiable
costs and charges, and as to all fees and exactions of whatever character,
(except duties on tonnage,) shall be final and conclusive against all persons
interested therein, unless tile owner . . . give notice in writing to the
collector, setting forth therein distinctly and specifically, and in respect to
each entry or paymept, the reasons for his objections thereto, and if the
merchandise is entered for consumption shall pay the full amount of the
duties and charges ascertained to be due thereon. Upon such notice and
payment the collector shall transmit the invoice and all the papers and
exhibits connected therewith to the board of three general appraisers,
. . . which board shall examine and decide the case thus submitted, and
their decision or that of a majority of them, shall be final and conclusive
upon all persons interested therein, and the record shall be transmitted to
the proper collector or person acting as such, who shall liquidate the entry
accordingly, except in cases where an application shall be filed in the Circuit Court within the time and in the manner provided for in section fifteen
of this act.
Smc. 15. That if the owner, importer, consignee or agent of any imported merchandise, or the collector, or the Secretary of the Treasury, shall
be dissatisfied with the decision of the board of general appraisers, as provided for in section fourteen of this act, as to the construction of the law
and the facts respectiug the classification of such merchandise and the rate
of duty imposed thereon under such classification, they or either of them
may, within thirty days next after such decision, and not afterwards, apply
to the Circuit Court of the United States within the district in which the
matter arises, for a review of the questions of law and fact involved in
such decision. Such application shall be made by filing in the office of the
clerk of said Circuit Court a concise statement of the errors of law and
fact complained of, and a copy of such statement shall be served on the
collector, or on tie importer, owner, consignee or agent, as the case may
be. Thereupon the court shall order the board of appraisers to return to
said Circuit Court the record and the evidence taken by them, together
with a certified statement of the facts involved in the case, and their decisions thereon; and all the evidence taken by and before Said appraisers
shall be competent evidence befqre said Circuit Court; aud within twenty
days after the aforesaid return is made the court may, upon the application
of the Secretary of the Treasury, the collector of the port, or the importer,
owner, consignee or agent, as the case may be, refer it to one of said general appraisers, as an officer of the court, to take and return to the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

The protest made by the importers was a detailed and comprehensive statement, and it was evidently intended to cover
all possible objections and claims upon the subject of the
proper duties to be collected from and the classification of the
tobacco.
The board of appraisers on the 1Sth of July, 1S93, decided
the various questions raised by the protest of the importers,
and held, among other things, that the bales of tobacco had
been properly opened and examined by the appraiser, although
only one bale in ten had been examined; that a fair average
had been made under section 2901 of the Revised Statutes,
and while the examination might not have furnished a precise
description of the goods, the board held there was no reason
to suppose that it was not as favorable to the importer as to
the Government. All the questions were decided against the
importer with the exception that the decision of the board
closed as follows: "In the absence of the merchandise and of
any evidence to impugn the returns of the appraiser, or to
show the character of the tobacco, we find that the returns
were correct, and in accordance therewith we hold that in the
reliquidation the lots must be prorated according to such
returns; that is to say, that the proportion of the agg'egate
weight of the total number of bales examined in a lot, to be
dutiable at 75 cents or 35 cents a pound, shall be estimated
according to the proportion of the number of bales examined
and returned by the appraiser as containing upward of 85 per
such further evidence as may be offered by the Secretary of the Treasury,
collector, importer, owner, consignee or agent, within sixty clays thereafter, in such order and under such rules as the court may prescribe; and
such further evidence with the aforesaid returns slall constitutc the record
upon which said Circuit Court shall give priority to andi proceed to hear
and determine the questi6s of law and fact involved in such decision,
respecting the classification of such merchandise and the rate of duty inposed thereon under such classification, and the decision of such court shall
be final, and the proper collector, or person acting as such, shall liquidate
the entry accordingly, unless such court shall'be of opinion that the question involved is of such importance as to require a review of such decision,
etc. (The balance of the section is rendered obsolete by the act of 891
providing a Circuit Court of Appeals to which such appeal now go inatcad
of to this court. 26 Stat. 826; Supplement to R. S., pages 901, 903, sec. 6.)

UNITED STATES v. LIES.
Statement of the Case.

cent or less of wrapper tobacco. To this extent the protests
are sustained; otherwise the decisions of the collector are
affirmed."
It is now claimed by the Government that the direction in
regard to the reliquidation, as- above quoted and which was
favorable to the importer, was erroneous, and that the result of
prorating, as directed in the decision, will be to reduce the
amount of the duties to be collected on account of the tobacco.
The importers were dissatisfied with the decision of the
board in overruling their protest as to the rate and amount of
duty chargeable on the tobacco, and therefore, on August 15,
1893, they applied to the Circuit Court of the United States,
sitting in the city of New York, for a review of the questions
of law and fact involved in such decision. The Government
made no application of any kind, although the order of the
board showed upon its face that, in respect to prorating, it
altered the decision of the collector and to the extent of the
alteration it was favorable to the importers. The Circuit
Court upon reading and filing the application of the importers
made an order that the board of appraisers should return to
that court the record, together with a certified statement of
facts in the case and their decision thereon, and in pursuance
of that order the board made return of the record, etc., and
after such return had been made the importers filed a petition
stating their desire to present further evidence in the matter,
and an order was entered that it be referred to General
Appraiser Sharpe to take and return to the court such further
evidence as might be offered.
The only evidence taken before the general appraiser was
"the entry in this case by the Rotterdam, June 30, 1890,
entry number 104,642, and the invoice and other papers
accQmpanying the same or thereto attached, with the exception of the protest."
No further proceedings were taken in the Circuit Court
until the 19th of December, 1895. At that time the importers
had become convinced that they could not succeed upon their
appeal, and, as appears from the order of the court when the
case came on for hearing and determination before it, they

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

"conceded in open court that there was no error in said decision of the board of general appraisers, and it having been
contended on behalf of the collector and Secretary of the
Treasury that the said decision of the board of general
appraisers should be reversed for manifest error therein
"And the court having ruled that the collector and Secretary of the Treasury, or either of them, could not be alloved
to impeach or in any way object to the said decision of the
board of general appraisers, because they had not proceeded
under the statute to seek a review of such decision of the said
board of general appraisers;
**

*

"It is ordered, adjudged and decreed that the decision of
the board of general appraisers be and the same is hereby in
all things affirmed."
It appeared in the record that no application, pursuant to
section 15 of the act above mentioned, for a review of the
decision of the board of general appraisers, had been made by
the collector or the Secretary of the Treasury.
An appeal having been taken, by the Government, to the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
from the judgment of the Circuit Court, the judgment appealed
from was in all things affirmed. 38 U. S. App. 655. Upon
the application of the Government a writ of certiorari from
this court was issued, and the case brought here for review.
.Mr.Solicitor General for the United States.
.Mr. IF. Wickhamr Smith for Lies & Co.
was on his brief.

Mr. Chsares Ciurie

MR. UsTIcE PEOKcEAm, after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the Circuit Court
was right in refusing the request of the Government to
reverse the order of the board of general appraisers. The
ground of the refusal of the Circuit Court was that the United

UNITED STATES v. LIES.
Opinion of the Court.

States had not proceeded in accordance with the provisions of
section 15 of the act above quoted in order to have the right
to ask for such reversal, and that when the importers, who
had sought the review pursuant to the statute, conceded the
correctness of the decision of the board of general appraisers
and withdrew further opposition, it was the duty of the court
to affirm the decision of the board, and the Government
could not be heard to ask for a reversal of the order in the
absence of an appeal by it.
The act of 1890 (above cited), under which reviews in
relation to revenue decisions are to be taken, was passed "to
simplify the laws in relation to the collection of the revenues."
It provides a particular gystemn of procedure for obtaining a
review of tile decisions of the collector and of the board of
general appraisers in revenue matters. Compliance with the
provisions of the act is necessary in order that a review may
be had on the part and for the benefit of the Government as
well as on that of the importers.
Under section 14, the decision of the collector is final and
conclusive unless the owner, if dissatisfied with the decision,
give notice in writing to the collector setting forth therein
distinctly and specifically his objections. If such notice be
given, the collector transmits the invoice and all the papers
and exhibits connected therewith to the board of general
appraisers, which then examines and decides the case thus
submitted, and the decision of the board, or that of a majority,
is final and conclusive upon all persons interested therein,
except in cases where an application is filed in the Circuit
Court, within the time and in the manner provided for in the
following (fifteenth) section.
In that section, provision is made not only for a review by
the importer, but it expressly includes the case where the
collector or the Secretary of the Treasury shall be dissatisfied
with, the decision of the board, and it provides that the
importer or the collector, or the Secretary of the Treasury,
may, within thirty days after the decision, and not afterwards,
apply to the Circuit Court of the United States for a review
of the questions of. law and fact involved in such decision.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The section provides further that the application shall be
made by filing in the office of the clerk of the Circuit Court a
concise statement of the errors of law and fact complained of,
and by serving a copy of such statement on the collector in
the case of a review on the part of the importer, and in case
of a review on the part of the collector this copy is to be
served on the importer, consignee or agent, as the case may
be.
If therefore the Government, through the collector or the
Secretary of the Treasury, seeks to review a decision made
by the board of general appraisers because either of such
officers may think such decision is in any or all of its provisions too favorable to the importer, the section (15) provides
the way and the only way in which that review is to be
obtained. If neither officer should take the proceedings so
provided for, by applying for a review and filing with the
clerk the statement of the errors of law and fact of which he
complains and by serving a copy upon the importer, then the
officer could not ask for a reversal of the decision, for it is
clear that the appeal on the part of the importer would not
give the Government that right. What would be the purpose
of the provision for filing and serving this paper defining the
errors of law and fact complained of, if, without it, the
decision or any part of it made by the board could be reversed
upon the application of the Government made on the appeal
of the importer? The plan of the statute evidently contemplates action by both parties if both are dissatisfied.
We do not think the act can be fairly construed as meaning
that where one party takes an appeal and files his statement
of the errors of law and fact complained of by him and serves
the same upon the opposite party, the latter can wfthout
himself making any application for a review, and, without
filing or serving any statement of errors complained of, seek
a reversal of the decision of the board upon any ground
whatever. The fact that one party appeals furnishes no
reason for holding that the other can obtain all the benefits
of an appeal himself, without complying in any particular
with the statute giving an appeal. There would be no reason

UNITED STATES v. LIES.
Opinion of the Court.

or fairness in so providing, and we are of opinion the statute
properly construed does not so provide.
When therefore the case is before the Circuit Court upon
the sole application of the importer, and he then admits that
his appeal cannot be supported in law, and concedes that the
decision of the board of general appraisers should be affirmed,
the court ought to affirm that decision, and the Government
cannot be heard to claim that the decision of the board or any
part thereof should be reversed.
It is said that the Circuit Court, when the case was called
and the importer conceded that the decision of the board of
general appraisers was right, should have dismissed the case,
and that it ought not to have affirmed the judgment of the
board. The proceedings up to the time when the case was
called in the Circuit Court had been regular, and the case was
properly pending in that court for the purpose of a review
upon the appeal of the importer. It lost no jurisdiction to
proceed because of the confession of the importer that his
appeal was without merit, but, on the contrary, when the confession was made, it amounted to the same thing as if after
opposition the court had so decided, and, in that case, of
course, the judgment would be affirmed.
When section fifteen provides that the Circuit Court shall
"proceed to hear and determine the questions of law and fact
involved in such decision," it means the decision of the board
of general appraisers, which was properly brought before the
court by virtue of an application regularly filed to obtain such
review by the party against whom the decision was made. and
we do not think it was ever intended to permit the court to
reverse the decision at the instance of a party who had asked
for no review and taken no proceedings to obtain it. This
would be neither just nor fair, and it would result in erasing
from the statut' the provision for filing and serving the statement of the questions of law and fact complained of and a
review-of which was the object of the application. The statute ought not to be so construed as to *permit such a review
unless its language plainly demands it, which is not the case
in this instance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

In the case of In re Crowley, 50 Fed. rep. 165, the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of New York decided this
principle, only in that case it was against the importer. Tile
collector sought a review of the decision of the board of general appraisers and the court affirmed the decision as made,
but declined the importer's request to examine the question
whether the board had correctly determined certain other
matters, for the reason that the importer had made no stateinent of any error of law or fact complained of touching that
decision, and had made no application for a review of the decision in that particular. We think the same rule applies
here.
Whether the collector has any right to reliquidate for the
purpose of assessing higher duties under some sections of the
Revised Statutes, where an error is alleged to have been discovered in the original liquidation, it is not necessary to here
determine. He has no right under this statute to a reversal
of the decision of the board of general appraisers.
The cases cited by the learned counsel for the Government
in relation to the California land titles, United State' v.
Ritchie, 17 How. 525, and Grisar v. .l1cDowell, 6 Wall. 363,
we think have no application, and do not aid in the proper
construction of the act before us.
Although the Circuit Court has, upon the application of the
parties, power to take further testimony after the case is
brought before it, and to that extent it may be regarded as
something in the nature of a new proceeding, yet the proper
procedure in deciding the appeal is in nowise altered thereby,
and unless a party has appealed, and filed and served his
statement as above mentioned, the court ought not to reverse
on his motion.
It is immaterial that the application is not named an appeal.
It is such in substance, and the grounds and reasons for the
appeal are to be stated. Although the board of general appraisers may not be a court, yet the proceedings to review its
determination are pointed out by the statute, and they must
be substantially followed and obeyed.
If the Government desire to review any decision of the

HAYES v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

board, it can do so by complying with the statute and stating
wberein it complains of such decision. If it make no conplaint, it may be regarded as satisfied with the decision as
made.
As the Government in this case took no proceedings
to review the decision of the board of general appraisers,
it cannot be heard to object to an affirmance of such decision.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Affirmed.

HAYES v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
No. 29.

Argued January 28, 1897. -Decided

May 23, 1S93.

In the spring of the year 1825, when the grant of public land in controversy
in this suit was made, the territorial deputation of New Mexico had no
authority to make such grant.

THIS action was begun by appellant Hayes to obtain the
confirmation of an alleged complete and perfect title to a tract
of land of the area of 130,138.98 acres, situated in the county
of Socorro, Territory of New Mexico.
In his petition Hayes averred that his alleged title was
derived by mesne conveyances through one Antonio Chavez,
to whom, on March 3, 1S25, while the land was a part "of
the public domain of the Rep ublic of .Mexico," a grant was
made of the tract in question by the governor and departmental assembly "of the Territory of New Mexico." The
exhibits attached to the petition, however, show, and counsel for. the appellant admits in his brief, that the correct
designations of the officials intended to be referred to were,
respectively, the "political chief" and "territorial deputation."

