THE CARIB PRINCE.
Statement of the Case.

"If there be any hardship to the petitioners in the rejection
of this grant, they must apply for relief to another department of the Government. We are bound by the language of
the act creating the Court of Private Land Claims."
The decree of the court below is
-Affirmed.
MIR. JUSTICE SHIRAs dissented.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, not having heard the argument,
took no part in the decision.

THE CARIB PRINCE.'
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 45.

Argued March 7, 8, 169S. -Decided

May 23, 1S98.

Under the settled doctrine of this court, that the concurrent decisions of
two courts upon a question of fact will be followed unless shown to be
clearly erroneous, this court accepts as indisputable the finding that the
Carib Prince was unseaworthy at the time of the commencement of the
voyage in question in this case, by reason of the defect in the tank referred to in its opinion.
The condition 9f unseaworthiness so found to exist was not within the
exceptions contained in the bill of lading, and, under the other facts
disclosed by the record, the ship owner was liable for the damages
caused by the unseaworthy condition of his ship; and there is nothing
in the act of February 19, 1893, c. 105, 27 Stat. 445, commonly known as
the Harter act, which relieved him from that liability.
The provision in that act exempting owners or charterers from loss resultIng from "faults or errors in navigation or in the management of the
vessel," and from certain other designated causes, in no way implies
that because the owner is thus exempted when he has been duly diligent,
the law has thereby also relieved him from the duty of furnishing a seaworthy vessel.

THE Carib Prince, an iron and steel steamer, ms built in
England in tho spring of 1893, for the carriage of passengers
1The docket title of this case is "Josephine IV. V1uppermna
ship Carib Prince, her engines &c., Ernest Legge, Claimant."

v. The Steam-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

and freight. She was fitted with a peak tank, triangular in
shape, extending from the bottom of the ship to the between
decks, the tank being intended to hold water to be used as
ballast in trimming the ship. The sides of the tank were the
sides of the ship; the after end of it was the collision bulkheads. It was twenty-four feet deep, and bad a capacity of
eighty-three tons of water. The angle irons, beams, strengthening bars, etc., which enabled the collision bulkhead to sustain the strain of the water against it, were on the inside
of the tank, the face of the bulkhead showing in the No. 1 hold
being smooth, except that the plates were lap-jointed. The
strengthening bars were fastened to the bulkhead by a series
of horizontal rivets, the heads of the rivets, inside No. 1 hold,
being situated three or more feet above the floor of the hold.
On September 14, 1892, the Carib Prince was chartered to
the Trinidad Direct Line Steamship Company for the period
of four years. On August 31, 1893, while the vessel was in
the possession of the charterers, and lying in the port of Trinidad, loading for a voyage to New York, a number of cases of
bitters were delivered on board, consigned to J. W. Wupperman. They were placed in the No. 1 hold. The bill of lading
delivered to the consignor contained the following exceptions:
"The act of God, the Queen's enemies, pirates, robbers,
restraints-of princes, rulers and people, loss or damage from
heat or fire on board, in hulk or craft or on shore, explosion,
steam, accidents to or latent defects in hull, tackle, boilers
and machinery, or their appurtenances, jettison, barratry, any
act, neglect or default whatsoever, of pilots, masters or crew
in the management or navigation of the ship, quarantine,
collision, stranding and all and every other dangers and
accidents of the seas, rivers or steam navigation, of whatever
nature or kind, always excepted."
The ship left Trinidad on August 31, 1893, stopped for a
short time at Grenada, just north of the Island of Trinidad,
and from the latter port proceeded direct to New York. After
leaving Grenada, and on the night of the 3d of September, by
direction of the captain, the peak ballast tank referred to, and
which adjoined the compartment in which the cases of bitters

THE CARIB PRINCE.
Counsel for Parties.

were stored, was filled with sea water. This was done for

the purpose of trimming the ship, which was several feet
lower at the stern than she was forward. The next morning,
or the second morning after, it was discovered that the water
from the peak tank was escaping through a rivet hole into
the No. 1 hold, the head of one of the rivets having been
forced off. To recover the damage occasioned to the goods
in question by the water which had thus gotten into the No.
1 hold, Mrs. Wupperman filed her libel in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of New York. Ernest
Legge, master, on behalf of the owner, appeared and filed an
answer, in which, after denying the material allegations of
the complaint, the exceptions contained in the bill of lading
were pleaded as a defence, and it was averred that said
exceptions were valid in the port where the bills of lading
were issued. It was also averred "that the owner and charterer used all due diligence to have her (the vessel) properly
equipped, manned, provisioned and outfitted, and in every
way seaworthy and capable of performing her intended voyage, and used all due diligence in and about the transportation
of the merchandise in question, and alleged that if the cargo
mentioned in the libel was damaged as alleged, the damage
was due to latent defects in certain rivets, angle irons, braces
and straps in the bulkhead between the No. 1 hold and the
peak tank just forward of it, or to some error or fault in the
management or navigation of the vessel in filling the said
peak tank on the voyage, as will more fully appear on the
trial of this cause."
The case was tried in June, 1804, and a final decree was
entered in October following, dismissing the libel. 53 Fed.
Rep. 266. From that decree an appeal was taken to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which affirmed the decree of the District Court. 35 U. S. App. 390. A writ of certiorari being allowed, the cause was brought here for review.
fr. IRar'ringtonPutnam for appellant.
M.r. J. Parker -1irlinfor appellee.
filed a brief for appellee.
VOL. CLXX-42

31r. Everett P. I)Tkeeler

OCTOBER TERM , 1897.
Opinion of the Court.
31R. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

It was averred, in the answer, that the damage to the property of the libellant "was due to latent defects in certain
rivets, angle irons, braces and straps in the bulkhead between
the No. 1 hold and the peak tank just forward of it, or to
some error or fault in the management or navigation of the
vessel in filling the said peak tank on the voyage." The District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals held that the
sole cause of the accident was a latent defect in a rivet from
which the head had come off, leaving the hole through which
the water poured in and upon the merchandise of the libellant.
This defective condition of the rivet was found to have been
caused by the fact that the quality of iron had been injured
during the construction of the vessel by too much hammering,
so that it became brittle and weak, rendering it unfit to sustain the reasonable pressure caused, by filling the tank with
water while at sea, and consequently causing the vessel to be
unseaworthy at the time the bills of lading were issued and
the goods were received on board. The settled doctrine of
this court is that the concurrent decisions of two courts upon
a question of fact will be followed unless shown to be clearly
erroneoust

Comanic La 1/lechac v. Brauer, 168 U. S. 104,

and cases there cited; Stuart v. flayden, 169 U. S. 1;
Baker v. Cummings, 169 U. S. 189, Jl98. As, after a careful
examination of the evidence, we conclude that it does not
clearly appear that the lower courts erred in their conclusion
of fact, we accept as indisputable the finding that tie Carib
Prince was unseaworthy at"the. time of the commencement of
the voyage in question, by reason 'of the defect in the tank
above referred to.
Upon this premise 'of.fact, the first question which arises for
solution is this: Did the exceptions in the bill of lading exempting the ship owner "from loss or damage from
accidents to or latent defects in hull, tackle, boilers and machinery or their appurtenances," operate to relieve him from
damages caused by the state of unseaworthiness existing at

THE CARIB PRINCE.
Opinion of the Court.

the inception of the voyage and at the time the bill of lading
was signed ? This question is no longer open, as it is fully
answered in the negative by the decision in The Caledonia,
157 U. S. 124. In that case the damage sought to be recovered had been caused by the breaking of the shaft of the
steamer by reason of a latent defect which existed at the commencement of the voyage. The exemption from liability,
which was there asserted to exist, was predicated on a provision
in the bill of lading, relieving the owner from "loss or damage
from delays, steam boilers and machinery or defects
therein." It was held that the clause in question operated
prospectively pnly and did not relate to a bondition of unseaworthiness existing at the commencement of the voyage, and
that it must be construed as contemplating only a state of unseaworthiness arising during the voyage. The principle upon
which the ruling rested was that clauses exempting the owner
from the general obligation of furnishing a seaworthy vessel
must be confined within strict limits, and were not to be extended by latitudinarian construction or forced implication so
as to comprehend a state of unseaworthiness, whether patent
or latent, existing at the commencement of the voyage. -The
rule thus announced in The Caledonia but expressed the doctrine stated by Lord Selborne in Steel v. State Line Steamship
Co., L. R. 3 App. Cas. 72, that the exceptions in a bill of lading ought, if in reason it be possible to do so, to. receive "a
construction not nullifying and destroying the implied obligation of the ship owner to provide a ship proper for the performance of the duty Which he has undertaken." The fact
that the exempting clause in the present case refers to latent
defects, whilst that passed on in The Caledonia embraced defects generally, does not take this case out of the control of
thegeneral rule laid down in The Caledonia. The decision in
The Caledonia was based, not on the particular character of
the defects there referred to, but on the general ground that,
unless there were express words'to the contrary, the language
of the exempting clause would not be held to apply to defects,
whether patent or latent, existing when the voyage was commenced. In other words, that where the owner desires the

OCTOBER TERAM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

exemption to cover a condition of unseaworthiness existing at
the commencement of the voyage, he must unequivocally so
contract. An illustration of such contract was found in The
Laertes, 12 Prob. Div. 1ST, referred to in the opinion in The
Caledonia. In that case the bill of lading stipulated, not
merely against latent defects, but against all such defects existing at the time of the shipment.
The condition of unseaworthiness found to exist not being
then within the exceptions contained in the bill of lading, it
remains only to consider whether under the facts disclosed by
the record, aside from the exceptions in the bill of lading, the
ship owner was liable for the damages caused by the unseaworthy condition of the ship. The contention is that, as the
owner exercised due diligence to make the ship seaworthy, he
was consequently not liable, because, under the present state
of the law, a ship owner is no longer under the obligation to
furnish a seaworthy ship, but only to exercise due diligence to
do so. The radical change in the duties and obligations of
ship owners which this proposition involves is asserted to arise
from the statute of February 13, 1893, c. 105, 27 Stat. 445,
commonly described as the Harter Act. The proposition
rests on the assumed meaning of the second and third sections
of that act. The second section is as follows:
"SEc. 2. That it shall not be lawful for any vessel traiisporting merchandise or property from or between the ports of
the United States of America and foreign ports, her owner,
master, agent or manager, to insert in any bill of lading or
shipping document any covenant or agreement whereby the
obligations of the owner or owners of said vessel to exercise
due diligence [to] properly equip, man, provision and outfit
said vessel,, and to make said vessel seaworthy and capable of
performing her intended voyage, or whereby the obligations
of the master, officers, agents or servants to carefully handle
and stow her cargo and to care for and properly deliver same,
shall in anywise be lessened, weakened or avoided."
Now, it is patent that the foregoing provisions deal not with
the general duty of the owner to furnish a seaworthy ship, but
solely with his power to exempt himself from so doing by

THE CARIB PRINCE.
Opinion of the Court.

contract, when the particular conditions exacted by the statute
obtain. Because the owner may, when he has used due diligence to furnish a seaworthy ship, contract against the obligation of seaworthiness, it does not at all follow that when he
has made no contract to so exempt himself he nevertheless is
relieved from furnishing a seaworthy ship, and is subjected
only to the duty of using due diligence. To make it unlawful
to insert in a contract a provision exempting from seaworthiness where due diligence has not been used, cannot by any
sound rule of construction be treated as implying that where
due diligence has been used, and there is no contract exempting
the owner, his obligation to furnish a seaworthy vessel has
ceased to exist. The fallacy of the construction relied on
consists in assuming that because the statute has forbidden
the ship owner from contracting against the duty to furnish
a seaworthy ship unless he has been diligent, that thereby the
statute has declared that without contract no obligation to
furnish a seaworthy ship obtains in the event due diligence
has been used. And the same fallacy is involved in the contention that this construction is supported by the third section
of the act. The third section is as follows:
"SEc. 3. That if the owner of any vessel transporting
merchandise or property to or from any port in the United
States of America shall exercise due diligence to make the
said vessel in all respects seaworthy and properly manned,
equipped and supplied, neither the vessel, her owner or owners,
agent or charterers, shall become or' be held responsible for
damage or loss resulting from faults or errors in navigation or
in the management of said vessel, nor shall the vessel, her owner
or owners, charterers, agent or master, be held liable for losses
arising from dangers of the sea or other navigable waters, acts
of God, or public enemies, or the inherent defect, quality or vice
of the thing carried, or from insufficiency of package, or seizure
under legal process, or for loss resulting from any act"or omission of the shipper or owner of the goods, his agent or representative, or from saving or attempting to save life or property at
sea, or from any deviation in rendering such service."
The exemption of the owners or charterers from loss result-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Brewer, JJ.

ing from "faults or errors in navigation or in the management
of the vessel," and for certain other designated causes, in no
way implies that because the owner is thus exempted when
he has been duly diligent that thereby the law has also
relieved him from the duty of furnishing a seaworthy vessel.
The immunity from risks of a described character, when due
diligence has been used, cannot be so extended as to cause the
statute to say that the owner when he has been duly diligent
is not only exempted in accordance with the tenor of the
statute from the limited and designated risks which are named
therein, but is also relieved, as respects every claim of every
other description, from the duty of furnishing a seaworthy
ship. These considerations dispose of all the questions arising
on the record.
Ihe decrees rendered both in the Circuit Court of Appeals
and in the District Court must be reversed,and the case be
remanded to the District Courtfor further proceedingsin
conformity wiith this opinion. And it is so ordered.

x. JUsTIcE Bizow , with whom cohcurred MR. JUsTICE
BREWER, dissenting.
For the reasons statbd by me in The Caledonia, 157 U. S.
124, 140, I am compelled to dissent from the opinion of the
court in this case. The accident in that case occurred by
the breaking of a propeller shaft, owing to its having been
weakened by meeting with extraordinarily heavy seas on
previous voyages. No defect in the ship was visible, or could
have been detected by the usual and reasonable means, if the
shaft had been taken out and examined.
The minority of the court, conceding the gefieral principle
that, in every contract for the carriage of goods by sea, unless
otherwise expressly stipulated, there is a warranty on the part
of tlie ship owner that the..ship is seaworthy at the time of
the beginning of the voyage; was "of opiniori that the
Caledonia was exempt from the lo~ses claimed by the
exceptionin the bill of lading 'of. loss or damage from
machinery or defects therein." it was argued that

THE CARIB PRINCE.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Brewer, JJ.

this exception' was obviously inserted for the purpose of
exempting the ship from some liability to which, without
such exception, it would be subject. It evidently was not
intended to be limited to mere breakages of machinery which
should occur after the voyage began, since the breaking of
sound machinery through the stress of weather is treated as an
inevitable accident or peril of the sea, for which the ship would
not be liable, whether there were an exception or not,'and the

following cases were cited as sustaining this proposition: The
Virgo, 3 Asp. Mar. Law, 285; The William Lindsay, L. R. 5
P. C. 338; The 21iranda,L. R. 3 Ad. & Ec. 561; The Cargo
ex Laertes, 12 P. D. 187; The Curlew, 51 Fed. Rep. 246.
In the case under consideration the exception is more specific, and exempts the ship "from loss or damage from
accidents or latent defects in hull, tackle, boilers and machinIt was admitted that the sole
ery, or their appurtenances."
cause of the accident was a latent defect in a rivet from which
the'head had come off; that this defective condition of the
rivet was caused by the fact that the quality of the iron had
been ihjured during the construction of the vessel by too
much hammering, so that it had become brittle and weak,
thus rendering it unfit to sustain the reasonable pressure
caused by filling the tank with water while at sea.
It was further found by the courts below that abundant
diligence had been used in the construction of the vessel; that
the defect in the rivet was a latent one wvhich occurred at the
time she was built; that it was not discovered and was not discoverable at that time or subsequently, by the exercise of all
the known and customary tests and methods of examination,
which were all employed.
The question then arises as to what was meant by the
exception of "latent defects." It evidently was not intended
to refer to defects which became such after the beginning of
the voyage through stress of weather or other perils of the
sea, since the ship would not be liable for such defects or
breakages, whether excepted or not in a bill of lading. A
ship is never liable for an accident or breakage of machinery
occasioned by perils of the sea, and the word "defects" is

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Brewer, JJ.

never used in that connection. The words "latent defect,"
as ordinarily understood, apply to something existing at the
time the ship or other vehicle was constructed, and such as
was not discovered and could not be discovered by ordinary
methods of examination. To exempt a vessel from the consequences of such a defect is neither unreasonable nor unjust,
and most of the modern bills of lading contain a stipulation
to that effect.
The case of the Cargo ex Laertes, 12 P. D. 187, is in point.
Bills of lading, under which the cargo was shipped, contained,
among other excepted perils, the clauses "warranted seaworthy only so far as ordinary care can provide," and "owners not to be liable for loss, detention or damage . . . if
arising directly or indirectly . . . from latent defects in
boilers, machinery, . . . even existing at time of shipment." The Laertes broke down from a latent defect which
could not have been discovered by the exercise of all reasonable care, and it was held that the exception of latent defects,
if it did not abrogate, at all events limited, the warranty
which the law would otherwise imply that the ship was seaworthy at the beginning of the voyage. I do not regard the
words "even existing at time of shipment" as adding anything to the words "latent defects," since in our view of those
words, as ordinarily understood, they must have existed at the
time of shipment.
The hardship of the ruling in the case under consideration
appears the more manifest from the fact that the Carib Prince
was a British steamer, and that the bill of lading was signed
at Trinidad, a port governed by the English law.
I agree with the majority of the court that the Hatter Act
cuts no figure in this case. While it is possible that the
framers of this act may have intended to exonerate ships
from the consequences of unseaworthiness where due diligence bad been used to make them seaworthy, it must be conceded that the language of the third section does not express
such intent, since it only exonerates them from loss or damage resulting from faults or errors in navigation or management. But I think that recent cases in this court have

665

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. ARCHIBALD.
Opinion of the Court.

imposed a most severe and impracticable measure of liability
which operates with great hardship upon the prudent
-one
and careful owner, and one which is calculated to invite further legislation in the direction of the Harter Act.

TEXAS

ERROR

AND

TO

THE

PACIFIC RAILWAY
ARCHIBALD.
CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

COMPANY

APPEALS FOR

THE

v.

FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 20T. Submitted April 15, 1898. -Decided

May 23, 1893.

It is the duty of a railroad company to use reasonable care to see that the
cars employed on its road, both those which it owns and those which it
receives from other roads, ire in good order and fit for the purposes for
which they are intended, and this duty it owes to its employ~s as well
as to the public.
An employ6 of a railroad company has a right to rely upon this duty being performed, as, while in entering the employment lie assumes tile
ordinary risks incident to the business, he does not assume the risk arising from his employer's neglect to perform the duties owing to him with
respect to the appliances furnished.

TiE case is stated in the opinion.

_Mr. John F. Dillon, -Mr. Winslow S. Pierce and Mr. David
D. Duncan for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Janes Turner and Mr. J. Henry Shepherd for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit, commenced in a state court, was removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Texas, on the ground that the defendant was incorporated
under the laws of the United States. The object of the

