PARSONS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Statement of the Case.

but out of the alleged misconduct of the officers of the Land
Office in permitting the entries and in issuing the patents;
and if any error was committed by the Circuit Court in dealing with that question, which we do not intimate, the proper
course for the defendants was to have gone to the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
. Moreover, the defendants did not connect themselves in any
way with the Indian treaties, or with any of the p.rties to
them; nor did they claim any rights under said treaties, or
under any of the parties to them. In no true sense, therefore,
can it be said that this is a case in which the validity or construction of any treaty made under the authority of the
United States is drawn in question by a party having a rightful interest in such question.
The motion of the defendant in error must be allowed, and
Dimissed.
the writ of error is, accordingly,

PARSONS

v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 17.

Submitted December 20, 1897. -Decided

April 11, 1898.

Although the matter in dispute in this case is not sufficient to give this
court jurisdiction, it plainly appears that the validity of statutes of the
United States, and of an authority exercised under the United States
was drawn into question in the court below, and is presented for the
consideration of this court.
The enactment by Congress that assessments levied for laying water mains
In the District of Columbia should be at the rate of $1.25 per linear front
foot against all lots or land abutting upon the street, road or alley in
which a water main shall be laid, is conclusive alike of the necessity of
the work and of its benefit as against abutting property.
The power of Congress to exercise exclusive jurisdiction in all cases within
the District includes the power of taxation.
If the assessment for laying such water mains exceeds the cost of the work
it is not thereby invalidated.

ON October 5, 1895, Hosmer B. Parsons, the plaintiff in
error, filed in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia

OCTOBER TERI'Mf, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

his petition against the District of Columbia and John W.
Ross, Charles F. Powell and George Truesdell, Commissioners
of the District, complaining, as illegal, of a certain charge or
special assessment against land belonging to the petitioner, as
a water-main tax, or assessment for laying a water main in
the street on which said land abuts. The petition avers that
the charge or assessment in question was made in accordance
with the act~of the legislative assembly of the District of
Columbia approved June 23, 1873, c. 5, and the acts of Congress approved respectively June 10, 1879, c. 16, 21 Stht. 9;
June 17, 1890, c. 428, 26 Stat. 159; and August 11, 1894, c.
253, 28 Stat. 275. The petition alleged the following grounds
of objection to the assessment:
1. That the petitioner was not one of the property holders
who requested that the work and improvements for which
said parcel of land was assessed should be done and made,
and that said charge was made against property whose owner
had not requested the doing of said work or the making of
said improvements.
2. That the petitioner was not consulted as to advisability
of making said' improvements, and was given no opportunity
to be heard upon the questions of cost or utility or benefit of
the work, or of the apportionment of the .tax, and was not
notified of the amount charged until after the work was concluded, and after the assessment had been made and had gone
into effect as a lien upon said land, which was not a reasonable time.
3. Said assessment was not made and was not authenticated
by any officer or person authorized to make or authenticate
the same.
4. The assessment was made without any estimate of the
cost of the work to be done, and without regard to the cost
of the work or the value of the improvement, and not upon
the basis of benefits to the property assessed, and said assessment is in excess of the cost of the work.
5. The assessment was made without authority of law, and
the respondents had no jurisdiction or right to make the
same.

PARSONS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Statement of the Case.

6. The description of tile parcel of land assessed is insufficient.
7. The said tax was not assessed within thirty days after
the said water main had been laid and erected.
8. All of the said land assessed does not abut upon the
street in which said water main was laid.
The petition procebded to allege that the said charge remained unpaid, and that the Commissioners were threatening
to sell and convey said land in order to pay and satisfy said
.illegal charge, whereby the petitioner's title to his land was
clouded, and that he was thereby injured and has no appeal.
The petitioner prayed that a writ of certiorari should issue,
commanding the respondents to certify to the court a copy of
each and every record and part of record relating in any
manner to the laying of said water main and said assessment,
and that, upon the coming in of the return of the respondent,
the said charge complained of should be quashed and annulled, etc.
The' writ of certiorari was issued and a teturn made
thereto. The principal facts appearing therein are that the
petitioner's land was assessed with the sum of $872.50, being
at the rate of $1.25 for each linear foot abutting on the
street; that the land abutting on the opposite side of the
street was charged with an equal sum, making a total assessment of $2.50 per foot; and that the cost of the inain was
$1.50 per foot.
*OnJanuary 6, 1896, after a hearing upon the petition and
return, the petition was dismissed. An appeal was thereupon taken to the Court of -Appeals of the District of Columbia, where, after argument, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the District was, on April 16, 1896, affirmed; and
on May 5, 1896, the cause was by a writ of error brought
to this court.
The principal enactments of Congress pertaining to the
water system of the District of Columbia are found in the
Revised Statutes relating to the District in chapter 8,sections
195 to 221.
Thereby the legislative assembly, then in existence, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

authorized to supply the inhabitants of Washington and
Georgetown with Potomac water from the aqueduct, mains
or pipes laid in the streets and avenues by the United States,
and to make all laws and regulations for the proper distribution of the same ; to establish a scale of annual rates for the
supply and use of the water, and generally to enact such laws
as might be necessary to supply the inhabitants of Washington and Georgetown with pure and wholesome water, and to
carry into full effect the provisions of said chapter 8 of the
Revised Statutes. It is further provided that a water tax
may be levied and collected on all real property within the
limits of the city of Washington, which binds or touches on
any avenue, street or alley in which a main water pipe may
be laid by the United States or by the District; that the
water tax may be levied on lots in proportion to their frontage or their area, as may be determined by law, and may be
collected in not less than three nor more than five annual
assessments; and that the water tax so authorized to be
levied and collected shall constitute a fund to be used exclusively to defray the cost of distribution of the water, including all necessary fixtures and machines connected with such
distribution.
In pursuance of the authority thus delegated, the legislative
assembly, by act approved June 23, 1873, provided as follows:
"That hereafter in order to defray the expenses of laying
water mains and the erection of fire plugs, there be, and is
hereby, levied a special tax of one and a quarter cents per
square foot on every lot or part of lot which binds in or
touches on any avenue, street or alley in which a main water
pipe may hereafter be laid and fire plugs erected, which
tax shall be assessed by the water registrar within thirty
days after such water mains and fire plugs shall have been
laid and erected; of which assessments the water registrar
shall immediately notify the owner or agent of the property
chargeable therewith, setting forth in said notice the number
of the square in 'which is situated the property on which said
tax is assessed, and the street, avenue or alley on which it
fronts, and the said tax shall be due and payable in four

PARSONS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

equal instalments, the first of which shall be payable within
thirty days from the date of the notice," etc.
By the act of March 3, 1863, ยง 201, Rev. Stat. D. C., it was
provided that, "on petition of the owners of the majority of
real estate on any square or line of squares in the city of
Washington, water pipes may be laid and fire plugs and
hydrants erected whenever the same may be requisite and
necessary for public convenience, security from fire or for
health." But this provision was* replaced by the act of
June 17, 1890, c. 428, 26 Stat. 159, which enacted that "the
Commissioners shall have the power to lay water mains and
water pipes and erect fire plugs and hydrants whenever the
same shall be, in their judgment, necessary for the public
safety, comfort or health."
By the act of August 11, 1894, c. 253, 28 Stat. 275, it was
provided "that hereafter assessments levied for laying water
mains in the District of Columbia shall be at the rate of one
dollar and twenty-five cents per linear front foot against all
lots or land abutting upon the street, road or alley in which a
water main shall be laid." The defendants in error moved to
dismiss the writ of error.
Mr. Arthur A. Birney for plaintiff -iaerror.
Mr. S. T. Ttomas and Mr. A. B. Duvall for defendants in
error.
MR.JUSTICE SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The defendants in error have moved to dismiss the writ of
error, because the sum or value of the matter in dispute is less
than five thousand dollars, and because the judgment of the
court below does not involve the validity of a statute of the
United States or of an authority exercised under the United
States.
It is true that the amount or value of the matter in dispute
is not sufficient to enable this court to exercise its revisory power
VOL. CLXX-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

over the judgment of the Court of Appeals, but we think it
plainly appears that the validity of statutes of the United
States and of an authority exercised under the United States
was drawn into question in the court below, and is presented,
by the assignment of error, for the consideration of this court.
It is stated in the opinion of the Court of Appeals that the
questions raised in that court were three: 1st, whether the act.
of the legislative assembly of the District of Columbia, approved June 23, 1873, in reference to the construction of water
mains, and providing the mode of assessment therefor, and also
the act of Congress of August 11, 1S94, "to regulate water
main assessments in the District of Columbia," are constitutional and valid enactments; 2d, whether in the assessment
there was a sufficient description of the appellant's property;
3d, whether there was sufficient notice of the assessment given
to the appellant. Those questions are clearly within the terms
of the statute authorizing this court to review the final judgments or decrees of the Court of Appeals.
The proposition chiefly urged on our consideration is that,
in all cases -where proceedings are to be had for the taking of
property, or to impose a burden upon ft, the statute itself must
provide for notice to the property owner; otherwise it is unconstitutional; and thdt the statutes under which the present
proceeding was.had did not provide for notice to the owner
of land to be assessed, nor give him an opportunity to be
heard.
Before we reach a particular examination of the reasoning
advanced and of the authorities cited on behalf of the plaintiff
in error, certain principles, so well settled by the authorities,
Federal and state, and by views expressed by esteemed
authors, as to form safe materials from which to reason, may
well be briefly adverted to.
In every modern civilized community or state there are
some matters of which every citizen and property owner must
be indisputably visited with notice. In the eye of the law,
he knows that hi- personal service is due to maintain public
order and t0 protect his country from hostile invasion. 119
is bound to know that, in view ,-I the protection he and his

PARSONS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

property receive, it is his duty to contribute his due share to
the establishment and maintenance of stable government.
No person, in any country governed by laws, least of all in
a country, where the laws are passed and administered by
legally constituted authorities, can be heard to say that he
was ignorant of the fact that such was his duty, and that, if
he neglected or failed to make such due contribution, lawful
compulsory methods might be resorted to.
So, too, when he elects to become a member of a municipal
community, and seeks to enjoy the social benefits thereby
afforded, he is supposed to have notice of the necessary obligations he thus incurs. Streets must be graded, paved and
lighted. A police force to enforce peace and order must be
provided. Particularly, in the line of our present investigation, there is the obvious necessity for a system to supply the
inhabitants with a constant and unfailing supply of water, an
essential for health, comfort and safety, next in importance
to air. He cannot be heard to contend that he is entitled to
gratuitously receive such advantages, nor that the laws and
ordinances under which they are created and regulated are
invalid, unless his individual and personal views have been
formally obtained and considered.
On the other hand, it is equally well settled that the exercise of the power to assess and collect the public burdens
should not be purely arbitrary and unregulated.
In each case, therefore, where the party, whose property is
subjected to the charge of a public burden, challenges the
validity of the law under which it was imposed, it becomes
the duty of the courts to closely consider the special nature
of the tax and legislation complained of.
It is trite to say that general principles announced by
courts, which are perfectly sound expressions of the law
under the facts of a particular case, may be wholly inapplicable in another and different case; and there is scarcely any
department of the law in which it is easier to collect one body
of decisions and contrast them with anotherin apparent conflict, than that \vhich deals-with the taxing and pblice powers.
There is a wide difference between a tax or assessment pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

scribed by a legislative body, having full authority over the
subject, and one imposed by a municipal corporation, acting
under a limited and delegated authority. And the difference
is still wider between a legislative act making an assessment,
and the action of mere functionaries, whose authority is derived from municipal ordinances.
The legislation in question in the present case is that of the
Congress of the United States, and must be considered in the
light of the conclusion, so often announced by this court, that
the United States possess complete jurisdiction, both of a
political and municipal nature, over the District of Columbia.
.Mattingly v. District of Columbia, 97 U. S. 687; Gibbons v.
-Districtof Columbia, 116 U. S. 404; "Shoernaker v. United
States, 147 U. S. 282;-auman. v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548.
By this legislation a comprehensive system, regulating the
supply of water and the erection and maintenance of reservoirs and of water mains, was established, and of this legislation every property owner in the District must be presumed
to have notice. And accordingly when by the act of August
11, 1894, Congress enacted that thereafter assessments levied
for laying water mains in the District of Columbia should be
at the rate of one dollar and twenty-five cents per linear front
foot against all lots or land abutting upon the street, road or
alley in which a water main shall be laid, such act must be
deemed conclusive alike of the question of the necessity of
the work, and of the benefits as against abutting property.
To open such questions for review by the courts, on the petition of any or every property holder, would create endless
confusion. Where the legislature has -submitted these questions for inquiry to a commission, or to official persons to be
appointed under municipal ordinances or regulations, the inquiry becomes in its nature judicial in such a sense that the
property owneris entitled to a hearing, or to notice or an
opportunity to be heard.
This distinction was clearly brought out in the noted case
of Stuart v. Palmer 7'4 N. Y. 183. There an act of the State
of New York empowered a commission composed of three
persons to open and pave an avenue, and for that purpose

PARSONS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

"to take such land as was requisite, estimate the value thereof
and assess the amount on the lands benefited by the opening
of the avenue in proportion to the benefits," but which pro,
vided for no notice to the property owner; and the Court of
Appeals held that notice of the proceeding was essential, and
that, accordingly,'/he proceedings were invalid. Subsequently
the legislature passed a validating act, directing a sum equal
to so much of the first assessment as had not been paid, with
interest, and a proportionate part of the expenses of that
assessment, should be assessed upon and apportioned among
the lots upon which the former assessment had not been paid.
The Court of Appeals sustained the act. 100 N. Y. 585. In
delivering the opinion of that court, Judge Finch said:
"The act of 1881 determines absolutely and conclusively
the amount of the tax to be raised, and the property to be
as*sessed and upon which it is to be apportioned. Each of
these things was within the power of the legislature, whose
action cannot be reviewed in the courts upon the ground that
it acted unjustly or without appropriate and adequate
reason. . . . The legislature may commit the ascertainment of the sum to be raised and of the benefited district to
commissioners, but it is not bound to do so, and may settle
both questions for itself; and when it does so, its action is
necessarily conclusive and beyond review. Here an improvement has been ordered and made, the expense of which might
justly have been imposed upon adjacent property benefited
by the change. By the act of 1881, the legislature imposes
the unpaid portion of the cost and expense, with the interest
thereon, upon that portion of the property benefited which
has thus far borne none of the burden. In so doing, it
necessarily determines two things, viz., the amount to be
realized, and the property specially benefited by the expenditure of that amount. The lands might have been benefited
by the improvement, and so the legislative determination
that they were, and to what amount or proportion of the cost,
even if it may have been mistakenly unjust, is not open to
our review. The question of special benefit and the property
to which it extends is of necessity a question of fact, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

when the legislature determines it in a case within its general
power, its decision must of course be final. . . . The precise wrong of which complaint is made appears to be that the
land owners now assessed never had opportunity Jo be heard
as to the original apportionment, and find themselves now
practically bound by it as between their lots and those of the
owners who paid. But that objection becomes a criticism
upon the action of the legislature and the process by which it
determined the amount to be raised and the property to be
assessed.
Unless by special permission, that is a hearing
never granted in the process of taxation, thd legislature determines expenditures and amounts to be raised for their payment, the whole discussion and all questions of prudence and
propri6qr being confided to its jurisdiction. It may err, but
the courts cannot review its discretion. 'In this case,'it kept
within its power whqn it fixed, first, the amount to be raised
to discharge the improvement debt incurred by its direction;
and, second, when it designated the lots and property, which
in its judgment, by reason of special benefits, should bear the
burden; and having the power, we cannot criticise the reasons
or manner of its action."
The case was brought to this court, and, under the style or
Sponcer v. Merchant, is reported in 125 U. S. 345
The
reasoning of the Court of -Appeals was quoted and approved,
andits judgment, sustaining fhe constitutionality of.the act in
question, was affirmed.
In fHagar v. Reclamation District,111 U. S. *70l, the distinction between a tax or assessment imposed by a direct
exercise of the legislative power, calling for no inquiry into
the weight of evidence, -nor for anything in the nature of
judicial examination, and a tax or assessment imposed upon
property according to its value to be ascertained by assessors
upon evidence, was pointed out, and it was held that in the
former case no notice to the owner is required, but that in the
latter case the officers, in estimating the value, act judicially,
and notice and an opportunity to be heard are necessary. In
giving the opinion of the court it was said by Mr. Justice
Field (p. 709): "Of the different kinds of taxes which the

PARSONS

v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

State may impose, there is a vast number of which, from their
nature no notice can be given to the taxpayer, nor would
notice be of any possible advantage to him, such as poll taxes,
and generally specific taxes on things,
license taxes,
or persons, or occupations. In such cases the legislature, in
authorizing the tax, fixes its rmount, and that is the end of
the matter. If the tax be not paid, the property of the
delinquent may be sold, and he be thus deprived of his
property. Yet there can be no question that the proceeding
is due process of law, as there is no inquiry into the weight of
evidence, or other element of a judicial nature, and nothing
could be changed by hearing the taxpayer. No right of his
is, therefore, invaded."
Similar views have prevailed in most of the state courts,
but, instead of citing the cases, we shall content ourselves
with referring to the conclusions reached by two text writers
of high authority.
In Cooley on Taxation, 447, the following conclusions, from
many cases, are stated:
"1. The major part of the cost of a local work is sometimes collected by general tax, while a smaller portion is
levied upon the estates specially benefited.
"2. The major part is sometimes assessed on estates benefited, while the general public is taxed a smaller portion in
consideration of a smaller participation in the benefits.
"3. The whole cost in other cases is levied on lands in the
immediate vicinity of the work.
"In a constitutional point of view, either of these methods
is admissible, and one may be sometimes just, and another at
other times. In other cases it may be deemed reasonable to
make the whole cost a general charge, and levy no special
assessment whatever. The question is legislative, and, like all
legislative questions, may be decided erroneously; but it is reasonable to expect that, with such latitude of choice, the tax
will be more just and equal than it would be were the legislature required to levy it by one inflexible and arbitrary rule."
In Dillon's Municipal Corporations, vol. 2, ยง 752, 4th ed.,
the conclusions reached are thus expressed:

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

"The courts are very generally agreed that the authority
to require the property specially benefited to bear the expense
of local improvements is a branch of the taxing power, or included within it. . . . Whether the expense of making
such improvements shall be paid out of the general treasury,
or be assessed upon the abutting property or other property
specially benefited, and, if in the latter mode, whether the
assessment shall be upon all property found to be benefited,
or alone upon the abutters, according to frontage or according to the area of their lots, is according to the present weight
of authority considered to be a question of legislative expediency."
It is well settled, by repeated decisions of this court, that
the power of Congress to exercise exclusive jurisdiction in all
cases whatever within the District includes the power of taxation. -Loughborough v. Blake, 5 Wheat. 317; Willard v.
Presbury, 14 Wall. 676; Shoemaker v. United States, 147
U. S. 282; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548; IFilsonv. Zambert, 168 U. S. 611.
Our conclusion is that it was competent for Congress to
create a general system to store water and furnish it to the
i.habitants of the District, and to prescribe the amount of
the assessment and the method of its collection; and that
the plaintiff in error cannot be heard to complain that be
was not notified of the creation of such a system or consulted
as to the probable cost thereof. He is presumed to have notice of these general laws regulating such matters.
The power conferred upon the Commissioners was not to
make assessments upon abutting properties, ror to give notice
to the property owners of such assessments, but to determine
the question of the propriety and necessity of laying water
mains and water pipes, and of erecting fire plugs and hydrants, and their bona fide exercise of such a power cannot
be reviewed by the courts.
Another complaint urged is that.the assessment exceeded
the actual cost of the work, and this is supposed to be shown
by the fact that the expense of putting down this particular
main was less than the amount raised by the assessment.

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD v. NEBRASKA.
Syllabus.

But this objection overlooks the fact that the laying of this
main was part of the water system, and that the assessment
prescribed was not merely to put down the pipes, but to raise
a fund to keep the system in efficient repair. The moneys
raised beyond the expense of laying the pipe are not paid
into the general treasury of the District, but are set aside to
maintain and repair the system; and there is no such disproportion between the amount assessed and the actual cost as to
show any abuse of legislative power.
A similar objection was disposed of by the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts in the case of Leominster v. Conant,
139 Mass. 384. In that case the validity of an assessment for
a sewer was denied because the amount of the assessment
exceeded the cost of the sewer; but the court held that the
legislation in question had created a sewer system, and that it
was lawful to make assessments by a uniform rate which had
been determined upon for the sewerage territory.
In ilyde Park v. Spencer, 118 Illinois, 446, and other cases,
the Supreme Court of Illinois held that a statutory assessment
to defray the cost, maintenance and keeping in repair of a
drainage system was valid.
I The other contentions made on behalf of the plaintiff in
error are covered by the observations already made.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is accordingly
Affirmed.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON AND QUINCY RAILROAD
COMPANY v. NEBRASKA, ex rel. OMAHA.
ERROR TO TEE SUPREME COURT
No. 178.

OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.

Argued January 10,11, 1898. -Decided

April 11, 1898.

A Federal question was specifically presented in the trial of this case both
in the trial court and at the hearing in error before the Supreme Court
of the State, and the motion to dismiss cannot be allowed.
This court, when reviewing the final judgment of a state court, upholding
a state law alleged to be in violation of the contract clause of the Con-

