PROVIDENT TRUST CO. v. MERCER COUNTY.

593

Statement of the Case.

the decree of the District Court in so far as it restrainsthe
county authorities from collecting taxes for county purposes for the year 1895, and to affirm the rest of that
decree. The costs in No. 252 to be paid by the appellants,
and in -No. 262 by the appellees.

PROVIDENT LIFE & TRUST COMPANY v. MERCER
COUNTY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
Argued Aprl 29, May 2, 1898.-

Decided May 28, 1899.

The transactions with the county of Mercer, which resulted in the delivery of the bonds of the county to the railroad company, were had in
the utmost good faith.
Barnum v. Okolona, 148 U. S. 393, reaffirmed to the point "that municipal
corporations have no power to issue bonds in aid of railroads, except by
legislative permission; that the legislature, in granting permission to a
municipality to issue its bonds in aid of a railroad, may impose such conditions as it may choose; and that such legislative permission does not
carry with it authority to execute negotiable bonds, except subject to
the restrictions and conditions of the enabling act." But when the good
faith of all the parties is unquestionable, the courts will lean to that construction of the statute, which will uphold the transaction as consummated.
The provision in the act authorizing the issue of Mercer County bonds
to the Louisville Southern Railroad Company, when its railway should
have been so completed "through such county that a train of cars shall
have passed over the same, was fully complied with when the railroad
was so completed, from the northern line of the county to Harrodsburg,
that a train of cars passed over it ; but, even if this construction be
incorrect, it must be held that when the trustee, in whose hands the
county bonds were placed in escrow, adjudged that the condition prescribed for their delivery had been complied with, and delivered the
bonds to the railroad company, the company took such a title as, when
the bond was' transferred to a bona fide holder, would enable him to
recover against the county, even if the condition had in fact not been
performed.

ONi May 15, 1886, the general assembly of the Commonwealth of Kentucky passed an act, c. 1159, Private Acts,
VOL. cLxX-38

OCTOBER TERM', 1897.
Statement of the Case.

entitled "An act to authorize the county of 2fercer to subscribe aid to the Louisville Southern Railroad Company," the
Iirst section of which is as follows:
"SEc. 1. That the county of Afercer may subscribe to the
capital stock of the Louisville Southern hailroad Company
as hereinafter provided, and may pay therefor, in the
negotiable, coupon bonds of said county, payable not more
than thirty years after date, and bearing interest at a rate
not to exceed six ,per centum per annum, payable semiannually, and which bonds and interest shall be payable at
a place designated therein."
The second and third sections contain provisions in detail
in respect toa vote of the people of the county, the subscription to the stock of the company and the execution of the
bonds. The fourth section reads:
"SEc. 4. The said bonds shall not be binding or valid
obligations until the railway of the said company shall have
been so completed through such county that a train of cars
shall have passed over the same, at which time they shall be
delivered to said railroad company in payment of the subscription of such county, and the county shall thereupon be
entitled to receive certificates for the stock subscribed, and
the county judge of such county shall order that such bonds
shall be deposited with a trustee or trust company, to be held
in escrow, and delivered to the said railroad company when
it shall become entitled to the same by the construction of its
road through such county: Provicedl, however, That such
trust company or trustee shall, before receiving such bonds,
give bond, with good surety, approved by the county judge,
for the faithful performance of his or its dhty in the
premises: And provided furtter, That no such subscription
shall be binding unless such railroad shall pass to or through
the corporate limits of the town of Iarrodsburg."
In pursuance of this act an election was held in the countv,
resulting in favor of making the subsciiption and issuing the
bonds. The subscription was made and the bonds executed.
The bonds were, omitting a provision for repayment, in the
following form:

PROVI)ENT TRUST CO. v. MERCER COUNTY.

595

Statement of the Case..
"UNITED

STATES OF AMERICA.

No. 105.

"$1000.
"LOUISVILLE

SOUTHERN RAILROAD AID

BONDS.

"Colunty of Mereer, State of .entucky.

"The County of Mercer, in the State of Kentucky, hereby
acknowledges itself indebted and promises to pay to the
Louisville Southern Railroad Company, or bearer, the sum of
$1000 on or before the tenth day of January, A.D. 1917, at
the Louisville Banking Company in the city of Louisville,
Kentucky, with interest thereon at the rate of five per cent
per annum, payable semi-annually at said bank on the tenth
days of July and January after date respectively in each
year, on presentation and surrender of the annexed coupons
representing such interest. This bond is one of a series of
one hundred and twenty-five bonds of ever date herewith, all of the same denomination -and tenor, and numbered consecutively from one to one hundred and twenty-five, the same
having been issued pursuant to the authority conferred upon
the said county by an act of the legislature of Kentucky, entitled 'An act to authorize the county of Mercer to subscribe
aid to the Louisville Southern Railroad Company,' approved
May 15, 1886, and pursuant to an order entered by the county
judge of said county in conformity with said act subscribing
in behalf of said county for the capital stock of the Louisville
Southern Railroad Company in the sum of $125,000, which
order was entered of record in said court on January 10,
A.D. 1887.

*g

*

*

*

*"

"In witness whereof, the County of Mercer, by John W.
H-ughes, county judge thereof, has in the name and on behalf
of said county subscribed and executed this bond, and the
same has been attested by the county clerk of said county,
with his official seal affixed hereto, and the interest coupons
attached thereto have been signed by the said clerk.
"Done on the tenth day of January, A.D. 1887.
"THE

"Attest:

BEN.

CoUN'rTY OF MERCER,

[SEAL.]

"By JouN W. IIuGHES, County Judge.
C. ALLIN-, Olerk."

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

On February 7, 1S87, the county court appointed D. L. foore
trustee, as prescribed by section 4 of the act. Moore accepted
the trust and gave bond with good surety, as required, and on
[arch 3, 1887, the bonds were deposited with him.
Prior to June 1, 1SSS, the railroad was completed from
Louisville, in Jefferson County, via Shelbyville, in Shelby
County, and Lawrenceburg, in Anderson County, south
through Mfercer County to the depot of the Southwestern
Railroad in Iarrodsburg, the county seat; there it connected with a short line of road constructed by the Southwestern Railroad Company, and extending from Iarrodsburg
to Burgin, on the Cincinnati Southern Railroad; the Southern
Company owned all the stock of the Southwestern Company,
had possession of its road, and subsequently the two companies
were consolidated and the latter merged in the former coinpany. On said first day of June, 1888, a train of cars, moved
by an engine, passed over the road from Louisville through
Harrodsburg to Burgin and then returned to Louisville, and
from that time the railroad from Louisville to Burgin has been
continually operated as the Louisville Southern Railroad. The
distance from the northern line of M'ercer County to IHarrodsburg is fifteen miles, from Hlarrodsburg to Burgin, 4.72 miles.
Burgin is three miles from the south line of Mercer County
and 4.74 miles from the east line. The nearest point that the
road runs to the south line of M1ercer County is two miles.
On July 3, 1888, MNoore resigned his position as trustee, and
Isaac Pearson was appointed in his place. He gave security
to the county, as required by the act, and received from the
prior trustee all the bonds and coupons in his hands. About
the first of June, 1888, the time of the passage of a train of
cars from Louisville to Burgin and back, as hereinbefore stated,
there arose a question whether the condition precedent to the
delivery of the bonds had been complied with by the railroad
company, and it was in view of this difference of opinion and
the doubts of the trustee Moore that he resigned his position.
This question was publicly and generally discussed, and while
the discussion was go.
on, and before Pearson, the trustee,
had determined that the condition precedent had been per-

PROVIDENT TRUST CO. v. IMERCER COUNTY.

597

Statement of the Case.

formed and that he would deliver the bonds, the railroad
company prepared to extend .its road toward and to the town
of Danville, in Boyle County, which was 7.47 miles distant
from Harrodsburg, and with one exception acquired all the
rights of way to the southern line of M ercer County. A
movement was made in the eounty to have the court of
claims of the county instruct the trustee as to his duty in the
premises, and that court, consisting of the county judge and
the justices of peace of his county, met on June 26, 1888, and
the question was fully discussed before them. After arguiment
they declined to instruct the trustee as to his action, but, upon
motion of one of the justices, passed and spread upon the
records this resolution:
"At a county court of claims for Mercer County, at the
court house in Harrodsburg, on Tuesday, the 26th day of June,
1sSS.
"Present: John W. Hughes, J. P. M. C. C., and M. Cummins, C. B. Connor, James Yeast, Sr., A. S. Hendrew, John
W. Reed, E. R. Norton, R. L. Mullins, E. I. Massie, N. Harris,
G. J. Johnson, B. 0. Jones, A. Johnson, J. C. Mclntire and
John T. Pankey, justices of the peace of Mercer County..
"G. J. Johnson, as justice of the peace of- this county,
offered into the court the following motion, which is ordered
to be noted of record, and is as follows:
"' The members of this court do not believe that they have
any right to enter an order directing the trustee to deliver the
bonds of this county to the Louisville Southern Railroad, but
as individuals they are of the opinion that such delivery should
be made and the construction of the railroad not forced to the
Boyle County line.'
"And said motion being seconded, the ayes and nays were
taken, and resulted as follows:
"Ayes, l , as follows: ]. Cummins, C. B. Connor, James
Yeast, Sr., A. S. Hendrew, John W. Reed, E. R. Norton, R. L.
Mullins, N. Harris, G. J. Johnson, B. 0. Jones, J. C. McIntire
and John T. Pankey.
"Nays, none; not voting, two, as follows: W. I. Massie
and A. Johnson."

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Counsel for the Provident Life and Trust Compay.

After this, Pearson, the trustee, decided that the conditions
had been performed, and on the- day of August, 1888, in the
presence of the county judge of the county, delivered tile
bonds, first cutting off and burning the past due coupons. At
the same time the Louisville Southern Railroad Company dclivered to the county its certificate for an equal amount of its
capital stock. The stock was accepted by the county and
voted by the county judge at a stockholders' meeting on at
least two occasions, one on December 18, 1888, and another
on M'fay 26, 1890, and the stock certificate is still held by the
county of M[ercer and has never been tendered to the raiiroad
company, or any one representing it. At these two meetings
1fercer Count)- voted its shares in support of certain resolutions materially affecting the business affairs or the railroad
company and also accepting a legislative amendment to its
charter, as well as in the election of directors. The county
regularly levied an annual tax to meet the semi-annual interest
on the bonds, and pai d such interest for the years 1889, 1890,
1891 and'January 1, 1892. Since then it has paid no interest.
'he :Provident Life and Trust Company is a hona,Xde purchaser of $100,000 of the bonds, an'd on default in payment
of the coupons it commenced this action on November 3, 1892,
in the Circuit Court df the United States for the District of
Kentucky.- The pleadings having been perfected, the case
was tried before the court without a jury. Special findings
of facts were made, and upon them judgment was on April
30, 1895, rendered in favor of the plaintiff. From this judgment the county took the case on error to the Court of
Appeals for that circuit. That court, on March 3, 1898),
filed an opinion holding the bonds void, 43 U. S. App. 21,
and entered a judgment reversing the judgment of the Circuit Court and remanding the case with instructions to enter
a judgment in accordance with the opinion. Thereupon,
oi October 20, 1896, the case was brought to this court on
certiorari.
-Mr.. Thomas IF. Ballilt and Mr..Samuel Dickson for the
Provident Life and Trust Company.

PROVIDENT TRUST CO. v. MERCER COUNTY.

599

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John B. Thompson and .Mr. Alexander Pope IHinplirey
for Mercer County. Ar. George X. Davie was on their brief.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
No one can read the facts above stated, as found by the
Circuit Court, without being impressed that the transactions
between the county and the company, culminating in the
delivery of the bonds to the latter, were had in the utmost
good faith. There was no misrepresentation, concealment or
fraud. The work done by the company in constructing the
railroad was obvious and satisfactory. The question whether
that work was a compliance'with the terms of the subscription
was publicly discussed, was fully considered at a meeting of
the county court of claims, whose opinion was, and was so
expressed, that the contract had been fully complied with, and
that the bonds ought to be delivered. Prior to the time that
such conclusion was reached the company, in view of the
question, commenced its preparations to construct the road to
the south county line, and had obtained, with a single exception, the necessary right of way therefor. When advised by
the opinion of the court of claims that the construction of the
additional two miles of road was unnecessary, and the ju(gment of the trustee was announced that be considered the
contract of subscription fully complied with, the company
desisted and took the bonds. The county accepted the stock
issued by the company, voted upon it at stockholders' meetings,
and has ever since retained it. For three years and a half it
paid the interest on the bonds, without questioning their
validity. So that if good faith on the part of all concerned
was the sole condition of the validity of these bonds, no question could be made concerning it.
We do not mean to imply that good faith is the only
requisite, or that a condition plainly prescribed by the legislature can be ignored by a county, even with the best of intentions. On the contrary, we reaffirm the proposition laid down
in Barnum v. Okolona, 1-S U. S. 393, 395:

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

"That municipal corporations have no power to issue bonds
in aid of a railroad except by legislative permission; that the
legislature, in granting permission to a municipality to issue
its bonds in aid of a railroad, may impose such conditions as
it may choose; and that such legislative permission does not
carry with it authority to execute negotiable bonds except
subject to the restrictions and conditions -of the enabling act,
are propositions so well settled by frequent decisions of this
court that we need not pause to consider.them. S/eboyun,
County v. Park 'er, . Wall. 93, 96; Wl'ells v. Supejivisors, 102
'. S. 625 ; Claiborne County v. Brooks, 111 U. S. 400;
Young v. Clarendon Township, 132 U. S. 340, 34(6."
At the same time when the good faith of all the parties is
unquestionable the courts will lean to that construction of the
statute which will uphold the transaction as consummated.
Especially will that be so in a case in which the question of
construction having been raised the one party commences
preparations to perform work which will put the matter beyond
question and desists therefrom only upon the representations
of the other party that it is satisfied the work has been completed according to the terms of the contract. As said in
Andes v. Ely, 158 U. S. 312, 321:
"While courts may properly see to it that proceedings for
casting burdens upon a community comply with all the substantial requisitions of a statute in order that no such burden
may be recklessly or fraudulently imposed, yet such statutes
are not of a criminal character, and proceedings are not to be
so technically construed and limited as to make them a mere
snare to those who are encouraged to invest in the securities
of the municipality. These considerations are appropriate to
this case. The proceedings on the part of the town and the
railroad company were carried on in evident good faith. No
one questioned their validity, no effort was made to review the
action of the county judge, the bonds were issued, more than
5100,000 was spent within the limits of the town in the construction of the road, and years went by during which the
town paid the interest and part of the principal before any
question was made as to their validity."

PROVIDENT TRUST CO. v. MERCER COUNTY.

601

Opinion of the Court.

See also 2fercer County v. Ilacket, 1 Wall. 83; Van Ilostrup
v. Madison City, 1 Wall. 291; -lay County v. Vansycle, 96
U. S. 675.
With these preliminary observations, we pass to a consideration of the questions presented; and in the first place
it must be noticed that no matter of constitutional limitation
is involved. The only inquiry is whether the conditions prescribed in the statute have been fully complied with, and, if
not, whether the county is in a position to avail itself of the
non-compliance. The statute in terms authorizes the issue of
negotiable bonds. The bonds are negotiable, and issued by
the proper county officers; carry on their face recitals that
they have "been issued pursuant to the authority conferred"
by an act of the legislature, which is named, and "pursuant
to an order entered by the county judge of said county in
conformity with said act subscribing in behalf of said county
for the capital stock" of the railroad company. By a long
series of decisions such recitals are held conclusive in favor
of a bonafide holder of bonds that precedent conditions prescribed by statute and subject to the determination of those
county officers have been fully complied with. For instance,
whether an election has been held, whether at such an election a majority voted in favor of the issue of bonds, whether
the terms of the subscription have been complied with, and
matters of a kindred nature which either expressly or by
necessary implication are to be determined in the first instance by the officers of the county, will in favor of a bona
fide holder be conclusively presumed to have been fully performed, provided the bonds contain recitals similar to these
in the bonds before us. See among other cases Coloma v.
Eaves, 92 U. S. 484; Warren County v. MAlarcy, 97 U. S. 96;
Buchanan v. Litchfteld, 102 U. S. 278; 3Torthern Bank v.
Porter Township, 110 U. S. 608; Bernards Township v.
Morrison, 133 U. S. 523; Citizens' Savings Ass'n v. Perry
County, 156 U. S. 692; Andes v. Ely, 158 U. S. 312.
But it is said that the recitals in this case can be held conclusive only as to matters transpiring before the placing of
the bonds in the hands of the trustee, such as the election,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

etc.,.because by section 4 of the statute the bonds, when executed, were to be deposited with a trustee, to be held in escrow and delivered only upon the performance of a certain
condition - a condition to be performed subsequently to the
execution of the bonds. Assuming, without deciding, that
such limitation must be placed upon the recitals, we pass to
inquire whether that condition was in fact performed, and if
not, whether after delivery by the trustee the county can be
permitted to raise the question as against bona f(Ze holders.
That condition is that the bonds shall not be binding "until
the railway of the said company shall have been so completed
through such county that a train of cars shall have pa.se(I
over the same." It is contended that the word "through
means clear through the county from one end to "the other;
and that while the railway enters on the north line of the
county, and runs within the county limits a distance of nearly
twenty miles, it does not touch the south county line, nor
come within a nearer distance of it than two miles. So it is
said the railway does not run through the county, and therefore the condition upon which the bonds could become binding and valid obligations did not and does not exist. It is
true the primary meaning of the word "through" is from
end to end, or from side to side, but it is used in a narrower
and different sense. Its meaning is often qualified by the
context. Thus, if one should say that he had spent the
summer travelling through New England it would not be
understood as carrying an affirmation that he had been from
one side clear to the other or from one end clear to the other,
but that his travels had been within the limits of New England. That book which is said to have had a wider circulation than any except the Bible, Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress,
opens with this sentence: "As I walked through the wilderness of this world, I lighted on a certain place where there
was a den, and laid me down in that place to sleep." Doer
the writer mean that he passed from one end of the wilderness to the other, and at the further end found the den, or
simply that as he travelled in the wilderness he lighted on tho
den? Obviously the latter. Many similar illustrations might
"

PROVIDENT TRUST CO. v. MERCER COUNTY.

603

Opinion of the Court.

be cited. They show that "through" does not always mean
from end to end, or from side to side, but frequently means
simply " within." Now, the language here is "so completed
through such county that a train of cars shall have passed
over the same." Obviously, the primary thought is not the
extent of the line, but the extent to which the work shall be
completed. In dther words, the principal thing is not that a
railroad shall be partially completed from one end of the
county to the other, but that a railroad shall be so completed
within and substantially through the county that a train of
cars passes over it. It may well be believed that, inasmuch
as the company's road was to commence at Louisville, on the
northern border of the State, and its principal city, the purpose
was to connect the county with that city, and that the road
should be so fully completed as to permit the moving of
trains over it, i.e., be in a condition for actual use, and not
that a road, no matter how far constructed, should be extended from one end of the county to the other. This view
of the intent of the legislature is sustained by the last clause
of the section, which provides "that no such subscription
shall be binding unless such railroad shall pass to or through
the corporate limits of the town of Harrodsburg." This contemplates that the line coming from the north shall enter the
county and pass through it so far as to reach the corporate
limits of the town of Hlarrodsburg, that town being the
county seat. The proviso is not that the road in passing
through the county shall touch or pass through the town of
larrodsburg, but simply that it shall pass to or through that
town, and either is sufficient. It seemn not an unreasonable
construction of this statute that the condition of subscription
was fully complied with when the railroad was so completed
from the northern line of the county to Harrodsburg, the
county seat, that a train of cars passed over it. If that be
the correct construction, then of course we need inquire no
further; and, on the other hand, if though not correct, it be
not an unreasonable construction, the court should, in view
of the unquestioned good faith of both parties, of the fact
that it was adopted by the authorities of the county, and that

OCTOBER

IS97.
18'ERf]

Opinion of the Court.

by reason thereof the company desisted from further workaccept, if possible, the interpretation placed by the parties as
correct. This view is certainly persuasive.
But if the true, the only permissible, construction be otherwise, and the demand of the statute is that the road be actually
constructed from the north to the south line of the county,
and so constructed that a train of cars shall have passed over
it, then the question arises as to the effect of the decision of
the trustee that the condition had been complied with, and of
his delivery of the bonds, and their subsequent purchase by a
bona fide holder. It is said that the bonds were placed in
escrow, and that when an instrument is so placed there can be
no valid delivery until the condition of the escrow has been
performed, and if without performance the instrument passes
out of the hands of the one holding it in escrow it is not enforcible against the maker, and that in a suit on the instrument the inquiry is always open whether the condition of the
escrow has been performed. Whatever may be the rule in
case the instrument so placed in escrow be a deed or non-negotiable contract, we are of opinion that a different rule obtains when the instrument is a negotiable obligation.
"It is generally agreed that a delivery of negotiable paper
left in escrow, contrary to the terms upon which it was to
have been delivered, will pass a good title to the bona fid'
transferee for value and before maturity." Long sItmi Zoan
t Trust Co. v. Colunbus &e. Railway, 65 Fed. Rep. 455, 458.
In Fearingv. Clark, 16 Gray, 74, 76, Chief Justice 3igelow
thus states the law:
"The rule is different in regard to a deed, bond or other
instrument placed in the hands of a third person as an escrow,
to be delivered on the happening of a future event or contingency. In that case, no title or interest passes until a delivery
is made in pursuance of the terms and conditions upon which
it was placed in the hands of the party to whom it was
entrusted. But the law aims to secure the free and unrestrained circulation of negotiable paper, and to protect the
rights of persons taking it bonafide without notice. It therefore makes the consequences, which follow from the negotia-

'PROVIDENT TRUST CO. v. MERCER COUNTY.

605

Opinion of the Court.

tion of promissory notes and bills of exchange through the
fraud, deception or mistake of those persons to whom they are
entrusted by the makers, to fall on those who enable them to
hold themselves out as owners of the paper jure disponendi,
and not on the innocent holders who have taken it for value
without notice."
In Burson v. Huntington, 21 :Michigan, 415, 433, it is said
"If the maker or endorser, before delivery to the payee,
leave the note in the hands of a third person as an escrow, to
and the
be delivered upon certain conditions only....
confidence
the
person to whom it is thus entrusted violate
reposed in him, and put the note into circulation ; this, though
not a valid delivery as to the original parties, must, as between
a bona fide holder for value, and the maker or endorser, be
treated as a delivery, rendering the note or indorsement valid
in the hands of such bonafide holder."
See also 7allett v. Pa7-cer,6 Wend. 615, 620; Chase Nrational
Bankc v. Paurot,149 N.Y. 532; Graff v. Zogue, 61 Iowa, 7 04.
Within these authorities it must be held that when the
trustee adjudged that the condition had been complied with
and delivered the bonds the railroad company took such a
title as, transferred to a bona fide holder, enabled him to
recover against the county, notwithstanding the condition
had in fact not been performed. That the trustee was the
agent of the county and responsible to it for the manner in
which he discharged this duty is obvious frbm the provision
in the statute that he shall give "bond, with good surety,
approved by the county judge, for the faithful performance
of his duty. If in case the condition was not performed the
county had a perfect defence to the bonds, even in the hands
of a bona fide holder, there were little need of requiring the
trustee to grive any security.
Another significant feature in this connection is the fact
that by statute the bonds were to be negotiable. Counsel for
the county suggest that this provision of the statute can be
satisfied by giving to the bonds the benefit of negotiability as
between successive holders, but we know of no reason why
the general significance of the word "negotiable" should be

OCTOBER

TERMI,

1897.

Syllabus.

so limited. The third of the three peculiar and distinguishing
characteristics of negotiable instruments, as stated in 1 Daniel
on Negotiable Instruments, sec. 1, is respecting the consideration, and the author says:
" As between immediate parties, the true state of the case
inay be shown and the presumption of consideration rebutted.
utiwhen a bill of exchange or negotiable note has passed to a
bona fide holder for value and before maturity, no want or
failure of consideration can be shown. Its defects perish with
its transfer ; while, if the instrument be not a bill of exchange
or negotiable note, they adhere to it in whoscsoever hands it
To hold that by this provsion the legislature intended that
the quality of negotiability should inhere in the instruments
only as between the successive holders, and not between the
inaker and any bona fide holder, cannot be justified by any
reasonable construction of the language used.
It follows from these considerations that these bonds in the
hands of the Life and Trust Company, a bona file holder,
must be adjudged the valid obligations of the county.
The judgment of the Court of zApleals i&ther'fore 9,evercd
and the judgment of the Cicuit Court is atirmed.

LEDBETTER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR

TO

TIE DISTRICT

COURT OF THE

SOUTHERN

DISTRICT

UNITED STATES FOR

'1Il

OF IOWA.

Nqo.196. Submitted April 15, 1&9Q.
- Derided May 'I3,
159S.

An indictment for a violation of the provisions of section 16 of the act of
February 8, 1875, c. 36, forbidding the carrying on of the business of a
rectifyEr, wholesale liquor dealer, etc., without first having paid the
special tax required by law, which charges the offence in the lan-uaeg of
the statute creating it, is sufficient; and it comes within the rule, well
settled in this court, that where the crime is a statutory one, it must, he
charged with precision aud certainty, and every ingredient of which it is
composed must be clearly and accurately set forth, and that even in the

