ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

It results that as the plaintiff's action was solely one for
claim and delivery of property alleged to have been unlawfully detained and for damages for the -detention thereof,
the amount of recovery depended first upon the alleged value
of the property, which in the present case was one thousand
dollars, and such damages as it was by operation of law
allowed to recover in the action in question. As, however,
by way of damages in an action of this character, recovery
was only allowable for the actual damage caused by the detention, and could not embrace a cause of damage which was
not in legal contemplation the proximate result of the wrongful detention, and such recovery was confined, as we have
seen, to interest on the value of the property, it results that
there was nothing in the damages alleged in the petition and
properly recoverable adequate, when added to the value, of
the property, to have conferred upon the court jurisdiction
to -have entertained a consideration of the suit. Upon the
face of the complaint, therefore, the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction over the action, and it erred in deciding to the
contrary.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of South Carolinais reversed with costs and
the cause is remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the casefor want of jurisdiction.

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 583. Argued April il,1898. -Decided

FOR THE

May 9, 1898.

The Indictment in this case, which is. set forth at length in the statement
of the case, alleged the murder to have been committed " on the high
seas, and within t~e jurisdiction of this court, and within the admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction of the said United States of America, and out
of the jurisdiction of any particular State of the said United States of
VOL. CLXX-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.
America, in and on board of a certain American vessel." Held, that
nothing more was required to show the locality of the offence.
The indictment was claimed to be demurrable because it charged the homicide to have been caused by shooting and drowning, means inconsistent
with each other, and not of the same species. Held. that the indictment
was sufficient, and was not objectionable on the ground of duplicity or
uncertainty.
There was no irregularity in summoning and empanelling the jury.
There was no error in permitting the builder of the vessel on which the
crime was alleged to have taken place, to testify as to its general character and situation.
As there was nothing to indicate that antecedent conduct of the captain,
an account of which was offered in evidence, was so connected with the
killing of the mate as to form part of the res geste, or that it could have
any legitimate tendency to justify, excuse or mitigate the crime for the
commisgion of which he was on trial, there was no error in excluding the
evidence relating to it.
After the Government had closed its case in chief, defendant's counsel
moved that a verdict of not guilty be directed, because the indictment
charged that the mate met his death by drowning, whereas ,the proof
- showed that his deathresulted from the pistol shots.
Held, that there
was no error in denying this motion.
While a homicide, committed in actual defence of life or limb, is excusable
if it appear that the slayer was acting under a reasonable belief that he
was in imminent danger of death or great bodily harm from the deceased,
and that his act was necessary in order to avoid death oi harm, where
there is manifestly no adequate or reasonable ground for such belief, or
the slayer brings on the difficulty for the purpose of killing the deceased,
or violation of law on his part is the reason of his expectation of an
attack, the plea of self-defence cannot avail.
The evidence offered as to the general reputation of the captain was properly excluded.
As the testimony of the accused did not develop the existence of any facts
which operated in law to reduce the crime from murder to manslaughter,
there was no error in instructing the jury to that effect.

ANDERSEN was indicted in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Virginia, for the murder of
William Wallace Saunders, on an American vessel, on the
high seas, of which vessel Saunders was the mate and Andersen thQ cook.

The indictment charged that Andersen "On the sixth day of August, in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and ninety-seven, with force and arms,
on the high seas and within the jurisdiction of this court and.

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the said
United States of America, and out of the jurisdiction of any
particular State of the said United States of America, in and
on board of a certain American vessel, the same being then
and there a schooner called and named ' Olive Pecker,' then
and there belonging to a citizen or citizens of the said United
States of America whose name or names is or are to the
grand jurors aforesaid unknown, in and upon one William
Wallace Saunders, sometimes called William Saunders, then
and there being on board said vessel, did piratically, wilfully,
feloniously and of his malice aforethought make an assault,
and that the said John Andersen, alias John Anderson, a
certain pistol then and there charged with gunpowder and
leaden bullets, which said pistol he, the said John Andersen,
alias John Anderson, in his "hand (but which hand is to the
said jurors unknown) then and there had and held, then and
there piratically, feloniously, wilfully and of his malice aforethought did discharge and shoot off to, against and upon the
said William Wallace Saunders, sometimes called William
Saunders, with intent him, the said William Wallace Saunders,
sometimes called William Saunders, then and there to kill and
murder, and that the said John Andersen, alias John Anderson, with the leaden bullets aforesaid out of the pistol by the
said John Andersen, alias John Anderson, discharged and
shot off as aforesaid, then, to wit: On the said sixth day of
August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and ninety-seven, and there, to wit: On the high seas as aforesaid, in and on board of the said American vessel, and within
the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the said United
States of America and within the jurisdiction of this court,
and out of the jurisdiction of any particular State of the
United States of America, piratically, feloniously, wilfully
and of his malice aforethought did strike, penetrate and
wound the said William Wallace Saunders, sometimes called
William Saunders, in and upon the head of him, the said
William Wallace Saunders, sometimes called William Saunders,
(and in and upon other parts of the body of him, the said
William Wallace Saunders, sometimes called William Saunders,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

to the said jurors unknown,) giving to him, the said William
Wallace Saunders, sometimes called William Saunders, then
and there, with the leaden bullets aforesaid, so as aforesaid
discharged and shot off out of the pistol aforesaid by the said
John Andersen, alias John Anderson, with the intent aforesaid, in and upon the head of him, the said William Wallace
Saunders, sometimes called William Saunders, (and in and
upon other parts of the body of him, the said William Wallace
Saunders, sometimes called William Saunders, to the said
jurors unknown,) several grievous, dangerous and mortal
wounds,-and the said John Andersen, alias John Anderson,
did then and there, to wit: At the time and place last above
mentioned, him, the said William Wallace Saunders, sometimes
called William Saunders, piratically, feloniously, wilfully and
of -his malice aforethought cast and throw from and out of
the said vessel into the sea, and plunge, sink and drown him,
the said William Wallace Saunders, sometimes called William
Saunders, in the sea aforesaid, of which said mortal wounds,
casting, throwing, plunging, sinking and drowning the said
William Wallace Saunders, sometimes called William Saunders, in and upon the high seas aforesaid, out of the jurisdiction
of any particular State of the United States of America,
then and there instantly died.
"And the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid,
do say that by reason of the casting and throwing of the said
William Wallace Saunders, sometimes called William Saunders, in the sea as aforesaid, they cannot describe the said
mortal wounds with greater particularity."
The case coming on before Goff, Circuit Judge, and
Hughes, District Judge, defendant "demurred to the said
indictment on the ground that it does not specify the locality
on the high seas where the alleged offence occurred, and for
other reasons not assigned. Thereupon the United States
joined in said demurrer as to the said cause so assigned and
objected to the said demurrer beifig in anywise considered,
for reasons not assigned. Whereupon, after argument, the
court ovrruled the said demurrer for the cause assigned as
aforesaid and admonished the accused that he must state any

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

other grounds of demurrer on which he relied, as the court
could not otherwise consider them. No other grounds being
alleged by the accused, the said demurrer was overruled."
Defendant was duly and formally arraigned and pleaded
not guilty; and then "moved to quash the writ of venire
facias for the petit jury to be used in the trial of this particular case, on the ground that the said writ must show that
said venire were summoned for the trial of this particular
case, and not the general venire for offences in general to be
tried at this term of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Virginia." This motion was overruled and defendant excepted.
A jury was thereupon duly empanelled and sworn and the
trial proceeded with,:and during its progress exceptions to the
admission and exclusion of evidence and the giving and refusal of instructions were preserved by defendant. At the
close of the Government's case in chief, defendant's counsel
moved the court to instruct the jury to bring in a verdict of
"not guilty " on the ground that defendant was indicted for
the murder of Saunders by drowning, whereas the evidence
showed that he met his death by the discharge of a pistol.
The court overruled the motion and defendant excepted. A
verdict of guilty having been returned, defendant made successive motions for a new trial and in arrest of judgment,
which were severally overruled, whereupon he was sentenced
to be executed. This writ of error was then sued out, the
cause docketed, and duly argued at the bar.
The bill of exceptions contained the following preliminary
statement of uncontroverted facts:
"That the American tfiree-masted schooner IOlive Pecker'
sailed from Boston, Massachusetts, on the 20th day of June,
1897, for Buenos Ayres, South America, with a cargo of
lumber under and on deck. She had on board a captain, J.
W. Whitman; a mate, William Wallace Saunders, sometimes
called William Saunders; an engineer of a donkey engine,
William Horsburgh; a cook, viz., the defendant, John Andersen, and four seamen, viz., Martin Barstad, a native of
Norway; John Lind, a native of Sweden; Juan de Dios

OCTOBER TERI,

1897.

Statement of the Case.

Barrial, a native of Spain, and Andrew March, a native of
Newfoundland;' that the said 'Olive Pecker' was an American vessel, belonging to citizens of the United States; that
the said vessel proceeded from Boston on her course to her
port of destination* until the morning of August 6, 1897,
when, on the high seas and about 100 or 150 miles off the
Brazilian coast, between nine and ten o'clock on that morning,
the captain, Whitman, was shot in his cabin, and shortly
thereafter the mate was shot on the left-hand side of the
forecastle head and his body immediately thrown into the
sea;. Thie body of the captain was also thrown into the sea.
Several hours thereafter the said vessel ' Olive Pecker' was
burned afid the cook, engineer and four seamen took to the sea
in an open boat. Twenty-eight or thirty hours thereafter they
reached the Brazilian coast, where, having spent the night on
shore, they separated the next morning, the accused and John
iLind going in a northerly direction and the other four going
in a southerly direction. That the accused and Lind, within
a few days, reached Bahia, in Brazil. Both shipped, the accused on a vessel called the 'Bernadotte,' bound for Pensacola,
in the United States, and Lind on a Brazilian barkentine, bound
for some point in Spain. The other four men, halving the Spaniard as their spokesman, he being familiar with the language
of the country, and not finding an American consul, made
known to the Brazilian authorities what had transpi'red on
the 'Olive Pecker,' with the request that telegrams be sent
along the coast for the arrest of the accused, John Andersen.
These four men, having secured passes on a vessel to Bahia,
arrived there several days after the arrest of the accused, and
were placed in charge of the American consul at that port.
The accused handed to the American consul a statement in
-his own handwriting, purporting to be an account of the voyage of the 'Olive Pecker,' and also made to the American
consul a sworn statement, as did also the other five men,
which said statements were duly transmitted to the Department of State at Washington, and upon the call of defendant's counsel were produced for his use at the trial, but were
not produced in evidence.

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

At the direction of the Government at Washington, the
American consul at Bahia kept the accused and the five men
in custody at Bahia until the arrival at that port some time
in the month of September, 1897, of the United States manof-war ' Lancaster,' when they were put on board of that vessel
and brought into Hampton Roads, Virginia, in the Eastern
District of Virginia, that being the first district into which
the accused was brought after the commission of the alleged
offence; and the said accused, together with the five men,
was turned over by the officers of the ' Lancaster' to the
United States marshal on the 7th day of November, 1897,
and were duly placed in confinement in the city jail at
Norfolk, Virginia."
The evidence introduced on the trial was given in full, and
included the testimony of the four seamen, Barstad, Lind,
Barrial and March, and the engineer Horsburgh, on behalf
of the Government, and that of the defendant on his own
1
behalf. A considerable portion is set forth in the margin.
1

Barstad, who was at the wheel when the mate was shot, testified:
"I last saw William Saunders, the mate of the said vessel, alive on the
morning of August the 6th, 1897, on the left side of the forecastle head of
that vessel. It was between nine and ten o'clock of that morning, Ile
was ,shot at that time and place by John Andersen, the cook of the vessel
and the prisoner here. I saw him shoot him. I was at the wheel of the
vessel in the wheelhouse, just aft of the after-cabin.
"I heard a report of a shot in the captain's cabin, which was connected
with the wheelhouse by the after companionway. Immediately after I saw
John Andersen, the accused, come running up the after companionway and
through the wheelhouse, with a pistol in each hand and one in his hip pocket.
He ran up to John Lind, who was standing amidships by the rigging of the
middle mast. He said something to Lind, but I did not hear what it was.
I heard him sing out to the mate, Saunders, who was up on the cross-tree
of the foremast, at work in the rigging, and say, ' Come down, Mr. Saunders.'
The mate said, ' What do you want, steward ?' In a little while the mate
finished the job and started down the rigging. When about midway down,
and when the cook, Andersen, was standing on top of the forward house,
the mate started down and said, ' What you got in your hands, cook ?' 'I
got guns,' he says. 'Where you get them?' says the mate. 'Down in
the cabin,' he says. The mate came down and stepped on the forecastle
head, not on the forecastle house. Then Andersen fired a shot. The mate
reeled and faced him, and said, ' For God's sake don't shoot me, cook.' The

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Counsel for Parties.

Mr.George Mclhtos/ for plaintiff in error.
Air. Solicitor General and Mr. William H. White for
defendants in error.
cook f1lred another shot, and the mate kept on reeling; and tie cook fired
another one, and a third one, when the mate fell, and he shot him once after
he had fallen. Then the cook sung out to the men, who were iii the forecastle, 'I am inecharge of this vessel; I am next to the matd.' He sung
out again, ' Won't you fellows come out ? ' They came out, and I saw them
throw the mate's body overboard. I was at the wheel all the time. Then
he marched the whole gang aft and went down in the cabin and brought tle
captain up and threw him overboard.. He then said, ' If any man like lie can
put me in irons.' He had two or three pistols, one in his hands then. lie
had said-he was in charge of the vessel and had ordered the men to throw
the mate and captain overboard. I was at the wheel all the time. Then he
says, ' Boys, come down and have a drink.' He went down in the captain's
cabin and handed a bottle of whiskey, about two parts full. He gave each
a drink and took one himself: Then he marched the whole gang up on deck,
just outside the door of the wheelhouse, and said, ' You know all you nen
is guilty for helping me throw the bodies over the side.'
"The Spaniard told him to keep the vessel off, to clew up the gaff topsails and jibs, the outer jib, and make for port. The cook said, ' Damn;
you want me to get hung.' We said, 'No, steward, we don't want you to
get hung.' All the time he was armed.
After a little he said to the
Spanird, ' You the only sepsible man amongst the crowd; I want to speak
to you.' Then he called John Lind afterwards and spok6 to.him. I don't
know what he said. He ord6red the men to do so and so. I left the wheel
and went to the forecastle. The rest of the men came forward to get their
clothes. He ordered us to get our best clothes, and no more; he said take
no discharges, bankbooks, nothing. He ordered the men down in the
booby hatch to get up a barrel addressed to the American consul at Buenos
Ayres. Then he told me to go down in the galley to tap some paraffine oil.
I said 'N o.' He says, ' You go,' and handed his pistol in my face. ' All
right,' I says, 'steward.' I filled three buckets and passed them up, and
Andrew March took it and threw it on the deck-load. He was standing
there armed all the time. Then he, the cook, ordered me to take the wheel.
I went. The first fire commenced at the booby hatch; the next was forward.
The boat was lowered and provisions put in it." . . . "It was *twelve
or one o'clock when we left the ' Olive Pecker.' No vessels were in sight
which could have picked up the bodies of the mate and captain."
He then gaye tile particulars of the sail to the shore; tie arrest; etc.
This witness further said that when Andersen called to Saunders to come
down"The mate asked him, 'What do you want, steward?' He finished his
job and hung the marlin spike around his neck and came down the rigging.

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

1. The cause assigned in support of the demurrer to the
indictment was that it did "not specify the locality on the
The marlin spike had a half hitch on the point, which put the point upwards. That is the way sailors do it to keep the point from striking them
as they go up and down the rigging.
"There was nothin, to keep me from seeing the mate in the rigging
and when he came down, and all along the vessel on her port side to where
the shooting occurred. The sails weie all swinging to starboard. The
lumber was so piled on the deck that a man running along on It would run
right on top of the forward house. John Andersen was standing on top
of the forward house when he shot the mate, and the mate was standing on
the forecastle deck. The forecastle deck is about three feet lower than
the top of the house where the cook was standiug. The body of the mate
was lying, when picked up, on the forecastle' head, on the left side of the

vessel."
On cross-examination he said: "I mean fo tell the jury that five of us
were intimidated by that one man, the cook-the cook with the pistols.
He Intimidated us so tliatwhen he 'ordered us to burn the ship we obeyed.
He was following us up tllthe time. He ordered one to go there and.
another to go there, and another one Ihere. We han to follow the man
at the point of the pistol or else get killed. We did what we were told to
do through his pistol." . . . 1When the mace came down out of the
rigging, he asked the cook, ' What have you got in your hands, steward ?'
The steward said, 'I got guns.' The mate came down, stepped on the
forecastle head, and John Andersen fired a shot. The marlin spike was not
in the mate's hand, but was hanging around his neck, with the point up.
I am sure of that, though I was a hundred and fifty feet away. I did not
have a glass. The mate was standing with his hands at his side, with the
marlin spike around his neck. He did not make any hostile demonstration
towards the cook. He did not come at him to strike him. I am positive
of that. I do not know the mate had threatened the cook's life."
Lind testified:
"I last saw Mate William Saunders on the 6th of August of this year;
he was killed that morning by John Andersen on the forecastle head, on
the left or port side thereof. I saw Andersen just before the shooting of
the mate that morning, coming up from the cabin through the after companionway and through the wheelhouse; I was standing amidships; he
came up with a revolver in each hand; he came right up to me and asked
me where the mate was, and said, ' I have killed the captain, and now the
mate goes too.' The mate was then aloft, in the rigging of the foremast.'
I went then down on the lee or starboard side of the vessel to the forecastle house; I went and called the watch below in the forecastle house.
I said, ' You better look out because the cook is on deck with revolvers.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

high seas where the alleged offence occurred." The objection was without merit. -The indictment alleged the murder
to have been committed "on the high seas and within the
jurisdiction of this court, and within the admiralty and marAs I was calling through the window I could not see on the left of the v'sel. While I was calling to the men I heard a shot on the port side, on the
forecastle head. I heard three or four shots, I don't know exactly how
many. I heard the steward call to the men to come out, for all of them to
come up there. He was calling the men in the forecastle house. lie said
he wanted us to throw the body overboard. When I came up, all hands
were there except the man at the wheel, Martin Barstad. The mate was
lying on the forecastle head with his face downward. He had a marlin
spike tied around his neck. A7 marlin spike is used for splicing ropes, an
instrument that all sailors carry aloft when they go up to splice a rope; it
is carried around the neck by a long lanyard and a half hitch on the point
to keep it from sticking in his legs. We threw the body overboard. Then
the cook told us to come aft and get the captain's body overboard. We
went in the after cabin and found the captain sitting in his chair; sitting
like this, sir, with his hands folded in his lap. He looked as if liewas
alive. I saw blood on the side of his head, on the left side. We were told
to take him up by Andersen; he helped. He was taken up and thrown
overboard. Andersen was armed all this time. Before throwing the captain's body overboard, Andersen took hold of the captain's arm and felt his
pulse. When the body was thrown overboard, Andersen cursed it. The
captain's body was sitting in a chair in the after cabin, near the sofa on the
starboard side of the cabin. He was facing forward. I had only been in
the cabin once before, when we were in Boston. On American vessels
seamen do not go in the captain's cabin unless they are sent or called there.
There are doors opening from the forward cabin into the after cabin and
from the mate's room into these cabins.
"After the captain's body was thrown overboard, Andersen told us to go
down and he would give us a drink. We went down in the cabin, in the
forward cabin where the dining-room table was, and got a drink. I don't
recollect whether Andersen drank with us or not. There was not much
liquor in the bottle, a little over half a bottle I think, not enough to make
any one drunk. I didn't see any one drunk. After taking a drink, we went
up on deck and talked about making the small sails fast. The Spaniard and
myself suggested that the small sails be made fast and to make for land.
This was not done. Andersen said, ' No,. keep her up to her course,'-she
was off a little. 'Keep her up to her course,' he said; ' you want me to be
hanged?'
He then said to the Spaniard, 'You are about the sensiblest
man; I want to speak .o you.' I did not hear what he said to him. lie
then called me. I went to the lee side of the wheelhouse and he asked me
what I thought was best to do with the vessel. I said, ' The only thing we
can do now is to try to make for some land.' He said, 'No, nothing is go-

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

time jurisdiction of the said United States of America, and
out of the jurisdiction of any particular State of the said
United States of America, in and on board of a certain
American vessel, . . ." Nothing more was required to
ilg to be done but to destroy the vessel.' He did not say anything more to
me after that. If lie spoke to any of the rest, I didn't see or hear it. He
then ordered everything to make ready for to leave the ship. The old boat
sail was all tore up and I started to patch that. I was engaged about it
about an hour I should think. He then gave orders to lower the boat. Me
and the Spaniard lowered the boat. It was the big boat you see hanging at
the stern in the picture. Me and the Spaniard did lower the boat and Andrew March went down and unhooked the tackle, and we hauled the boat
up alongside the vessel and got some provisions down there. Then the
cook called Andrew and he went up. After I was through with that I went
up on the house again and I saw flames coining out of the after hatch.
She was afire then. Then they all went down in the boat and all hands cut
the boat adrift, rigged up the mast and started to sail. The cook helped us
to rig up the mast and sail. He was armed all that time with pistols. I
do not think any other members of the crew had pistols. I did not see any
of them have pistols." . . . 'There were no vessels sighted after the
bodies of the captain and mate were thrown overboard which could possibly
have picked up the bodies."
On cross-examination this witness gave an account of a difficulty between
the cook and the captain that morning about the captain's dog. About eight
o'clock the captain's dog was down by the galley door and the cook threw
The
some water on him. The dog ran up on the deck load "hollering."
captain came up and said to the cook, "1Did you throw hot water on that
dog?" Andersen replied that he did .not throw hot water on him; that it
was cold. The captain felt the dog's back and then called the cook a liar,
cursed him and struck him. Lind did not see the captain strike the cook
but heard the noise in the galley. Shortly after this the cook appealed to
the mate, "Won't you protect me until we get to port?" To this the mate
replied, "Get to port! You will get killed anyhow," or something like that.
"'Go to hell-you will get killed anyhow,' or something like that."
March testified:
"After the shooting the cook came and called us out of the forecastle.
He says, ' Come out here, boys, lower the boat and put me ashore. The captain and mate is dead and I am in charge of this ship.' I got out of the
bed and put on my shoes in a hurey, and the cook came back a second time
and says, ' Come out here, won't you? Come out here, Manuel,' and he
says, ' Yes.' We went out and went on the topgallant forecastle, and he
ordered us to throw the mate overboard. The mate was lying on the forecastle head, on the left-hand side. The sails of the vessel were swinging
at that time to the starboard, which left the left-hand side of the vessel
clear back to the wheelhouse. The cook was armed when he ordered the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

show the locality of the offence. St. Clairv. United States,
154 U. S. 134, 144. But the point is now made that the indictment was demurrable because it charged the homicide to
have been caused by shooting and drowning, which are means
mate's body to be thrown overboard, and he claimed then to be in charge of
the vessel. - I do not remember whether lie caught hold of the mate's body
and helped to throw it overboard or not. The mate had a marlin spike tied
around his neck when the body was throw overboard. A marlin spike is a
big awl used to'stick through the rope in splicing it. When it is used by a
man going up and downthe rigging a half hitch is taken over the point so it
won't stick iii his legs or get between the rigging going down. When it
is around the man's ndeck it is tied with a string and with a half hitch on tile
point. He can't use it without taking the hitch off so as to hurt anybody
with it. The top of the forecastle house, where the cook was standing
when he shot the mate, is about three feet higher than the forecastle (leck,
where the mate was standing when he was shot. To get to where Andersen
was when he was shot, the mate would have had to step up those three feet
on top of the forecastle house." . . . "I couldn't say whether the half
hitch was around the point or not.
"After the mate's body was thrown overboard we were ordered to the
cabin to take the captain up 'and throw him overboard. The cook was
armed at that time. When the mate's-body was thrown overboard Andersen swore oaths at it. When he swore oaths at the body the Spaniard asked
him not to curso the b6dy that way. We all obeyed the cook and went aft
and. found the captain's body in the after cabin. (Here the witness identified the diagram, showing the inside of the after cabin, and marked number
two.) The captain's body was found sitting in his chair, dead, with both
arms folded in his lap. He looked is if he was alive, with his head back
on one side and a wound in the left part of his head, about an inch above
the left ear. The captain was sitting in his chair near the sofa, on the starboard side of the vessel, the point marked on the diagram A.' John
Andersen oAered the captain's body to be taken up and thrown overboard.
Andersen was at that time armed. He assisted in throwing the body overboard. He swore at it when the body was thrown into the sea, calling it ' a
mean bastard.' After the body of the captain was thrown overboard the
steward ordered us to get ready the boat. He then invited us down into
the cabin to get a drink of whiskey, There was about two thirds of a
bottle of whiskey.* He drank with us. After that was done the bot was
got ready. Kerosene oil was thrown over the deck load and the ship was
set on fire. Then we made for land in the sail boat. It was about two
jiours, I think,, after the bodies were thrown overboard before we left the
'Olive Pecker.' At the time these bodies were thrown overboard there was
no 'vessel in sight which could possibly have picked them up."
"That morning before the captain was shot and before the mate was

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

contended to be inconsistent in themselves and not of the same
species. This ground of demurrer was not brought forward in
the Circuit Court, although defendant wasadmonished that he
must state all the groun.ds on which he relied. But, treating
shot I heard a difficulty between the cook and the captain about the captain's dog. As I was going forward from taking my dishes back from my
breakfast, I heard the dog holler. I was standing on the forecastle house.
I saw the dog come out and run aft. The captain came out and went to the
galley and asked the cook if he had been throwing water on the dog, and he
said no. The captain went back and felt the dog. Then.I saw the captain
go in the galley, but I did not know what he did there. This was about
fifteen or twenty minutes, I think, before the captain was shot. I had been
While standing at the
at the wheel of the ' Olive Pecker' many times.
wheel, in the wheelhouse, looking forward, with the sails swinging to the
right or starboard side of the vessel, you can see all the way along the lefthand side of the ship, on top the forecastle house, or a man standing on top
the forecastle house. The deck load did not interfere with seeing that."
On cross-examination: "I say this man intimidated us all at the pistol's
point. He ordered us to throw the mate overboard. I obeyed his orders,
because I wanted my life a little longer. After the captain was thrown
overboard, we all went intb the cabin and took a drink. I cAn't say that
we took a drink at the pistol's point, but he made us throw the mate's body
overboard. He did not M11 me he would kill me if I did not, but I knew
enough to know he would do it. There were four of us altogether. - I did
not have a knife. I do not know whether I went ahead or who went ahead
when we went into the cabin to take a drink. We had to throw the body
of the captain overboard because the cook ordered us to do it. I took
orders from the cook because he gave me to understand he was in charge
of the ship. At the time I knew he was, because he had all the guns. It
makes a big difference when he had all the arms."
Barrial testified :
"I last saw Mate Saunders alive on board that vessel on the morning of
the 6th of August, 1897, when the vessel was about a hundred or a hundred
and fifty miles off the Brazilian coast. On that morning I left the wheel of
the vessel about 8 o'clock, being relieved by Martin Barstad, and went
after my breakfast; then went to the forecastle and to my cabin. While
I was lying down, after that-I do not know how long-I heard the captain's dog holler. Andrew March came in the forecastle and says, 'The
captain is having a racket with the cook,' and I says, ' What can we do ?
Let him racket,' says I, and it was a little while before John Lind came
and knocked at the window where I was sleeping. When he finished talking to me I heard the report of four shots. I went in the forecastle in a
narrow place between the engine room and my bunk. I went in there
because I thought the cook wanted to kill us too. The engineer jumped
on my bunk and got out, too. I heard the cook sing out in the door,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

it as open to consideration, we think the indictment was
clearly sufficient as ruled in effect in St. Clair's case.
In that case, defendant was charged with the murder of
Fitzgerald on board the bark Hesper on the high seas, by
'Come out here, boys! Come out here quick!' 'Yes, sir,' says I, 'let
me finish 'dressing.' He says, 'Come out here. I am in charge of the
vessel.' I went out and the first thing I saw was the mate lying on the top
of the forecastle deck on the left-hand side, with his face downwards. The
cook says, ' Throw him overboard,' and then I says, ' Don't, cook; don't
throw him overboard, he's alive.' He says, 'Throw him overboard; lie's
dead enough.' We threw him overboard, and after we threw him overboard the cook says, ' Now go aft and pick the captain up.' When he
threw the body overboard he cursed at the body. Then ie ordered the men
aft to throw the captain overboard. All the while he was armed with
pistols. We went under his orders and into the captain's cabin. When
we got in the cabin we saw the captain sitting in his chair with both hands
in his lap, and his head leaning slightly to one side and on his breast. I
thought he was alive. I saw he had a bullet to go through near the left
side of his head. His body was taken up and thrown overboard. When
his body was thrown overboard, the cook cursed it also. After it was
thrown over he said, ' Come on, boys, I will give you a drink.' We took
a drink, and after we took a drink all came on deck and I said, I We will
make the staysails and the topsails fast and if a squall strikes her we can
manage the other sails, and we go right into Rio de Janeiro or Bahia.' I
sung out to Martin Barstad at the wheel, ' Keep her off,' and the cook says,
No, I don't want to go to the land.' HIe was standing close to the rail.
And he said, 'Do you want me to be hung ? There is nothing to be done
but destro-y the vessel,' he said. Then he called me and said to me, ' You
are the sensiblest man on board this vessel, and I want to speak to you.'
'All right, cook,' I says. He took me on top the galley and says, ' I am a
murderer, akd I killed these people to save my life and your lives. Now,
you fellows,' he says, ' you are guilty of helping me throw'the bodies overboard, and before you leave the vessel you will be as guilty as I am. You
ain't got nothing to fear.' Says he, 'Many a vessel leaves port and they
don't know where they go, and there's nobody to look after us for a long,
long time, and we will have time to run away.' I told him I had nothing
to fear with the vessel in port. I says, 'Look here, cook, destroy the
vessel, it's a terrible thing, it's worse than what you have done already.
Call all hands here and tell us what you want to do and where you want us
to sail ashore, and we -will help you as much as we can, and let us go into
pork.' 'No, no,' he says, ' that won't do; the vessel must be burned.' Ile
ordered a small boat to be made ready, and everything was made ready and
then he took us down into the cabin and lie says, ' I didn't kill these
people to rob the vessel. I grant you all fellows clothes out of this large
chest,' and we went in and everybody took some clothes, and the cook says.

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

striking and beating him with - a weapon unknown, and
'thereby giving him "several grievous, dangerous and mortal
wounds," and then and there casting and throwing him from
the vessel into the sea, and drowning him, " of which shid
' You fellows can put on your best clothes,' and he gave me a suit of
clothes, and lie says, ' You don't want to take anything;' so we went forward and put on our best suit of clothes, and the cook had us to pour
oil on the deck. The cook called us to hurry up and spread the oil on the
deck. I didn't want to do this. I went to the forecastle and the cbok
came and said, ' What are you doing there? Come and give your, hand
with this oil.' I says, ' Yes, cook; let me finish shaving and I go.' When
I went on deck I could see that the oil was already. It had been spread
over the deck. The cook then told us to lower a boat and it was lowered,
and Andrew March unhooked the tackle and we took the boat alongside the
vessel and I jumped in too. Provisionsrwere then put in the boat and when
everything was ready Andersen called to me, ' Come up and light the fire.'
'Well,' I says. 'let -me keep the lookout on the boat; it might smash
against the vessel.' So he called Andrew March, and the first time lie
called Andrew lie did not come, so he called him again in wild words and
March went up."
Oi cross-examination: "Q. After the cook here had killed the mate,
didn't he tell you you might put him in irons ? A. Yes, sir; he came and
lie says, 'Now you fellows can put me in irons and carry me to port, if you
want.' Q. And give me to the American consul ? A. No, sir; the same
words I told you, sir. 'Now you fellows,' lie says, 'can put me in irons
and take me in port if you want.' I says, 'No, no, cook, I no put you in
irons,' because he looked right in my face; and I says, - Why don't you
throw your revolvers away ?' Q. He offered to give himself up to you,
holding out his hands, and said: ' Put me in irons ?' A. He didn't throw
his revolverg away. Q. He didn't? A. No, he didn't. Q. Did he hold
out his hands to put him in irons ? A. With his revolvers, yes; and I says,
'No, no, cook, I won't put you in irons; no, no.' Q. Do you mean to say
lie had the revolvers in his hands when he offered you to put him in irons ?
A. Yes, sir."
Horsburgh was asleep in his berth in the after cabin when the captain
was shot. What he supposed was the noise of the shooting of the captain
awakened him, and then Andersen came to the companionway and asked
him to come on deck, that he had killed the captain. He came on deck and
went aft along the starboard side, where he told the crew that the cook had
killed the captain. Directly after the shots, the cook came forward, shouting, " Come out, boys: I am in charge of the vessel," and ordered the mate's
body to be thrown overboard. The mate was lying with his face down on
the port side of tile forecastle head, with a marlin spike hanging about his
neck. After the mate's body was thrown overboard, the cook otdered them
to go aft and throw the captain's body overboard. - We went down in the

OCTOBER TERMT, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

mortal wounds, casting, throwing, plunging, sinking and
drowning," Fitzgerald " then and there instantly died." The
language used was much the same as that employed in Un ited
States v. flolmes, 5 Wheat. 412. The indictment was suscabin and found the captain in the chair, so we took him up on deck and
threw him overboard. Then after that he told us to go down and he would
give us a drink; so we went down in the cabin and had a drink." After
that the cook ordered them to get the boat ready with provisions, etc. The
cook was armed and witness was frightened. The burning of the vessel
and the escape in the open boat as told by this witness corresponded with
that of the others. On the cross-examination the difficulty between the
captain and the cook about the captain's dog was reiterated.
Defendant Andersen testified in his own behalf :
" It was just after breakfast, and the dog was standing at the galley
door. He used to keep himself around there all the time. The captain
didn't want him to stay at the galley door, and I took some water I had
left in a bucket, some dirty water, to throw it onto the dog, as I always
used to throw some water on him, and he used to run and holler. I took
the bucket, and there was a little water left at the bottom of it. He was
standing right at the door and I had been giving him his breakfast. As the
'dog turned the bucket slipped in my hand. I had the handle on the edge of
it, and it hit him here in the leg, and he ran up on deck and made a noise.
I was looking around there for some place to run into and hide, as the
captain was coming down there into the galley, and I was standing in the
middle of the floor of the galley, facing the galley dresser. He struck me
in the side here, and that sebt me right on top the red-hot stove, on top the
pots and pans. He commenced to curse me and threaten me and everything, and I pleaded to him. I says, 'Captain, don't hurt me; don't hurt
me, Captain.' He looked at the axe, and he lookel up through the slide.
There is a little slide in the galley. He saw John Lind standing on top
there, and he looked at me; he says, 'You whore's son,' he says, 'I will
have the heart out of you.' And there he left me standing. I had cut them
two fingers into my knuckles. The mate came along, and it was my last
hopes in that vessel to see maybe another day; I had been sleeping in the
galley for a week; I didn't know whether I would live to see the next day
or not, so I turned to the mate, with tears rolling down my cheeks, and I
said to him, 'M r. Saunders,' I says, ' won't you protect me until we get into
port?' He turned around to me with scorn. He says, ' Go to hell,' he says,
' you will get killed anyhow.' Then I did not know what I was doing. My
mind'\was in that condition I didn't know whether to run overboard or to
stay taere and go and hide. I didn't know what to do. So I went up in
the galley slide and looked around to see if I could see any vessel. Thein I
made up my mind if I should see any vessel I should take a board and jump
overboard. So there I was. My basket of dishes was standing upon the
dresser, all dirty, after breakfast, and I was washing them, and I saw at

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tained though the particular objection under consideration
was not commented on. The indictment in this case was
evidently drawn from that, and charged that Andersen assaulted Saunders with a pistol with intent to kill him, by the
the time it was twenty-five minutes to ten then. I looked around, and I
didn't know if I had washed my di shes at all. Of course I was completely
out of my head then, so I thought about the cabin. Now, I used to sweep
that cabin every morning and dust it and everything before nine o'clock. I
used to have my dishes done in the galley before this time, and I had my
dinner to have ready before twelve o'clock. So I started into the cabin,
thinking that the captain would be on deck, and I came down in the cabin.
He was sitting inside of the door in a chair like this, although bigger, and
he had a bottle on this here lounge which was alongside of the stool or the
chair. He glared at me and he looked fairly black in the face with rage.
He blurted out and cursed me when I came into the cabin. Well, I didn't
know what to do. If I should run on deck, I would have to run overboard;
that was the only way I have to see out of it. I commenced sweeping the
cabin and started into the mate's room first. I saw the mate's gun lying on
the shelf, and I took that down, thinking if worst come to worst, I will
have to defend myself. So I finished the cabin and started into the captain's room. I passed by him in that direction [indicating by gesture], and
lie took up that bottle like this. He says, 'You whore's son!' Then he
took it up like this as if to split my head open, when I pulled my gun out
and fired. - The bullet struck him in the left temple. He fell into the chair,
and I ran into the captain's room. Then I thought about the mate. I ran
into the captain's room then and got his two guns. He used to keep one
gun in under the pillow and one on the shelf. I ran up on deck and I didn't
know where the mate was then. I came up to John Lind and he was at the
main rigging. 1 says, IWhere is the mate?' He says, I He is aloft.' I
looked up there, and I think I said something of calling him down, but I
don't think I did do that. The mate came down, and before he came down
piece next to the rail, he says, ' Where in the h-l1 did you
to the-,
get them guns?' He says, ' And where is the captain ?' I never made no
answer to him, but I stayed on top of that house there as the mate came
down, and he had this marlin spike around his neck. I will just show you
how he had it, if you please. He had this hitch on this marlin spike, as
represented to you before. He came down like this and walked up like
this [indicating by appropriate gestures] (walking towards the bowsprit)
and turned in this direction (to the right) and came, towards me in that
direction (on the starboard side). He took the half hitch out of the marlin
spike like this, and the marlin spike was hanging down when he came
towards me. I was standing there and had the guns then. I had three of
them and I held them in my hand all the time. I had an apron around my
waist, and I had no pockets here in the pants. He got this hitch off the
marlin spike-and came around to me like this [indicating by proper gesture]
VOL. cLxx-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

discharge of which he inflicted on him "several grievous,
dangerous and mortal wounds," and that he did "cast and
throw from and out of the said vessel into the sea and plunge,
sink and drown him, the said William Wallace Saunders,
sometimes called William Saunders, in the sea aforesaid, of
which said mortal wounds, casting, throwing, plunging, sinkto take the marlin spike off his neck and shove the marlin spike into me. I
pulled the gun and shot him. Tie first shot struck him here somewhere (in
the side). He was still coming towards me, and I shot twice or three times
together, when the man fell dead. In the meantime John Lind has been
running into the lee side of the house. Now, he stated here yesterday to
you gentlemen that I came up to him and says, ' Now the mate will go, too.'
But that belongs on the lee side of the house; to that man. When lie came
there he told them, ' Now the mate will go, too.'
"Q. You mean by that that you didn't say it at all?
"A. No, sir. That belongs to John Lind and into the lee side of the
forecastle; that is where that belongs. So I stood there, and John Lindhe was the man that came up first, and tlere was nobody else came up -so
I says, 'Ien,' I says, 'ain't you coming up ?' I says. In the condition I
felt, I felt actually frightened of the men the way I was, because I was
completely gone. We throwed the mate overboard. I helped them also,
so far as I can remember. And we took the captain out of tile cabin and
threw him overboard. And now, when this was done, I told them, I says,
'INow, men,' I says, 'you can do as you like with me,' I says; 'you call put
me in irons and take into poi't and give me up. You see I had to defend my
own life.' 'Yes,' they says, ' we all know that.' There I was, broke down
completely, like a child, and here they are, coming up here yesterday to put
everything onto me."
He also gave an account of the burning of the vessel and trip to the
shore. On cross-examination he admitted that he was about three feet
from the mate when he shot him; that lie was standing on the forecastle
house and the mate was down on the forecastle head; that the mate asked
him not to shoot. As soon as he had killed the captain, what came into his
head then was the mate; that he got the captain's pistols; that he ran up
on deck through the pilot house where Barstad was and to Lind, who stood
amidships, and asked where the mate was; that Lind told him tie mate
was aloft; that he got on top of the forecastle house, and in the excitement
may have called him down. He denied having asked the men to throw the
mate's body overboard, but admitted that he asked them to throw the captain's body overboard. He denied asking the crew to take a drink, but
admitted that le may have got the whiskey. He denied ordering the vessel
to be burned, and said that it was the engineer's suggestion. He admitted
that lie took the captain's watch and sold it and that the compass was thrown
overboard before they reached the beach.

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ing and drowning" Saunders "then and there instantly
died." And it was further said, as in the indictment against
St. Clair, that by reason of the casting and throwing of
Saunders into the sea as aforesaid, the grand jurors "could
not describe the said mortal wounds with greater particularity."
In Commonwealth v. Webster, 5 Cush. 295, the first count
charged an assault and a mortal wound by stabbing with a
knife; the second, by a blow on the head with a hammer;
and the third, by striking, kicking, beating and throwing on
the ground. The fourth count charged that the defendant
feloniously, wilfully and of his malice aforethought, deprived
the deceased of life "in some way and manner, and by some
means, instruments and weapofls to the jurors unknown."
The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts was unanimously of opinion that the latter was a good count. The
court, speaking through Chief Justice Shaw, said: "From the
necessity of .the case, we think it must be so, because cases
may be imagined where the death is proved, and even where
remains of the deceased are discovered and identified, and vet
they may afford no certain evidence of the form in which the
death was occasioned; and then we think it is proper for the
jury to say that it is by means to them unknown.
The rules of law require the grand jury to state their charge
with as much certainty as the circunstances of the case will
permit; and, if the circumstances will not permit a fuller and
more precise statement of the mode in which the death is
occasioned, this count conforms to the rules of law." In explaining the indictment and the setting out of several modes
of death, the Chief Justice also said.: "Take the instance of
a murder at sea; a man is struck down, lies some time on the
deck insensible, and in that condition is thrown overboard.
The evidence proves the certainty of a homicide by the blow,
or by the drowning, but leaves it uncertain by which. That
would be a fit case for several counts, charging a death by a
blow, and a death by drowning, and perhaps a third alleging
a death by. the joint result of both causes combined."
Commonwealth v. Desmarteau, 16 Gray, 1, was an indict-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ment for murder, containing three counts. The first charged

that the murder was committed by casting, throwing and pushing the deceased into the Connecticut River, and so choking,
suffocating and drowning her; the second, that the death was
caused by the blows of some weapon or instrument to the jurors unknown; the third, that the death was caused by the
blows and drowning both. It was held that all the counts
were in proper legal form and related to a single offence, and
that as a conviction on any one required the same judgment
and the same sentence as a conviction on all, the jury were
properly instructed that if they found the prisoner guilty of
the murder as set forth in either, they might return a verdict
of guilty, generally.
So an indictment which alleged that death was caused by a
wounding, an exposure and a starving, was held in Commonwealth v. Macloon, 101 M-fass. 1, not to be bad for duplicity, and
it was ruled that it was sufficient to allege that the death resulted from all these means, and to prove that it resulted from

all or any of them.
And see Joy v. State, 14 Indiana, 139; lfoodford v. People,
62 N. Y. 117; Slate v. Fox, 1 Dutcher, (25 N. J. L.) 566, 601;
State v. Johnson, 10 La. Ann. 456; People v. Colt, 3 Hill, 432;
Jones v. Georgia,.65 Georgia, 621 ; R odgers v. State, 50 Alabama, 102;" qonzales v. State, 5 Tex. App. 584.
In our opinion the indictment was not objectionable on the
ground of duplicity or uncertainty.
Granting that death could not occur from. shooting and
drowning at the same identical instant, yet the charge that it
ensued from both involved no repugnancy in the pleading.
For the indictment charged the'transaction as continuous, and
that two lethal means were employed coperatively by the
accused to accomplish his murderous intent, and whether the
vital spark had fled before the riddled body struck the water,
or lingered until extinguished by the waves, was immaterial.
If the mate had been shot in the rigging and fallen thence
into the sea, an indictment alleging death by shooting and
drowning would have been sustainable.
The Government was not required to make the charge in

AINDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the alternative in separate counts. The mate was shot and his
body immediately thrown overboard, and there was no doubt
that, if not then dead, the sea completed what the pistol had
begun.
2. The venire for the jury in this case was issued after the
term began, and it is insisted that it does not appear that it
was authorized by any order of court. This was a point not
made below, and it appeared on the argument at bar that an
order of court directing the jury to be summoned had been
duly entered, but was omitted from the record because no question had been raised in that regard. A duly certified copy
of that order being produced, counsel for plaintiff in' error
very properly waived the necessity of issuing a certiorari, on
suggestion of diminution, to bring it up. This disposed of the
objection as made.
On the trial plaintiff in error moved to quash the venire on
the ground that it should have shown that the jurors were
summoned for the trial of this particular case. The motion
was overruled. The law did not require jurors necessarily to
be summoned before the term began, nor the name of the
particular person. or persons to be tried to be inserted in
the writ. This was the November term of the court, and
the order was entered on the second day of December and the
writ was issued on the sixth of that month, after the commencement of that term, and was in the usual form, directing
the persons named to appear on a day named to serve as petit
jurors at said term. So far as appears there was no irregularity in summoning and empanelling the jury, and no exception was taken to the jury as empanelled. The point was
untenable.
3. One A. J. Hall testified for the Government that he built
the "Olive Pecker" and had sailed her for seven years. He
described the vessel, and in connection with his testimony
certain diagrams and an oil painting of the vessel were introduced without objection. Ie testified, among other things,
that with a deck load of lumber of a certain height and the
vessel on the port tack a man in the wheelhouse could command a view of the port side. After he had given his testi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

mony counsel for plaintiff in error "moved to strike out all
testimony as to the condition of the vessel at the time of the
casualty." Counsel for the Government insisted that he had
asked the witness nothing about that, and the Circuit Judge
said: "The court does not understand -that he has so testified.
Anything that would bear that construction as a matter of
colurse will be excluded from the jury. I think it is eminently
proper that the jury should understand the character of this
vessel. This man is familiar with it; he built it; he has commanded it. lHe is detailing to the jury nothing that took
place at the time of the alleged offence. lHe is giving the
general character and situation of the vessel, so that you may
understand it, which I think is eminently proper. As he was
not on the vessel at the time of this pecurrence the court will
not permit him to testify about anything that took place
then." The ruling was correct. Bram v. United States, 16S
U. S. 532, 568.
The witness was asked this question : "Is it customary in
loading vessels with a deck load of lumber to leave passageways or stairways to go down in different parts of the vessel ?"
He answered: "We most always do"that when we can, when
the lumber comes right, but sometimes we have to go right
over it when we can't." He was then asked, "Are you or
not familiar with the deck load of the 'Olive Pecker' when
she sailed from Boston on the 20th of June?" lHe answered:
"No, I don't know anything about that."
Counsel now contends that defendant moved to strike out
the testimony as to what was customary, but the record contains no such motion, and we think the reference must be to
the motion above mentioned, which was properly disposed of.
4. John Lind had testified, on cross-examination, that Andersen asked the mate: " 'Won't you protect me until we get
to port? '" and that the mate said: "' Get to port! You will
get killed anyhow,' or something like that." The question
was then put: "How came he to ask the mate to protect
him? " He answered : "The captain was cussing and treating him badly." Objection was made by the District Attorney
on the ground that counsel had no right to go into any alterca-

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tion between the accused and the captain, but counsel for the
accused insisted that he might "ask what took place between
the captain and Andersen that morning, whether the mate
was present or not, and let the jury infer whether Andersen
was alluding to that when he asked the mate for protection."
The court ruled: "You may ask it. We want all the facts in'
the case, and if it is not relevant testimony it will be excluded."
The witness thereupon gave an account of the quarrel about the
captain's dog. He was 'then asked: "Do you know of any
other circumstances? Had this captain been brutal or inhuman to this cook in any other way ?." This' question was
objected to on the ground "that the character of the captain
and his treatment of the accused prior to this time was not an
issue in this case,)which wasa trial for the killing of the mate,
and was not a part of the fes geske of this case." After argument, the court sustained the objection and excluded the question, and exception was taken. Counsel for plaintiff in erro
immediately remarked: "I mean by the interrogatories I am
going to propound now to confine myself to that morning,"
and continued the cross-examination. The record makes it
plain that all evidence offered as to what occurred that morning was admitted, and that what was excluded in this instance
was evidence of the conduct of the captain prior to the day
the mate was killed. And there was nothing to indicate that
that antecedent canduct of the captain was so connected with
the killing of the mate as to form part of thd res gestoe, or that
it could have any legitimate tendency to justify, excuse or
mitigate the crime for the commission of which Andersen
was on trial.
5. After the Government had closed its case in chief, defendant's counsel moved that a verdict of not guilty be directed,
because the indictment charged that the mate met his death
by drowning, whereas the proof showed that his death resulted from the pistol shots. There was no error in denying
this motion.
We repeat that the indictment charged the death to
have resulted from shooting and drowning, and that the fact
was uncontroverted that the mate was shot and immediately

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

thrown into the sea. There was no examination to ascertain
whether he was then dead or not. Ile was lying face down
and was picked up and thrown overboard as ordered by the
accused, according to the testimony for the Government.
Lind and March believed he was dead. Horsburgh said he
appeared so. Barstad was doubtful, and ]Barrial testified he
told the cook he was alive.
So far as this motion was concerned it was enough that the
evidence was not conclusive that be was killed by the pistol
shots.
And, as already indicated, the Government was not required
to make the charge in the alternative and elect to proceed in
respect of one means of death rather than the other, where
the murderous action was continuous.
6. Several of the errors assigned relate to the rulings of
the court limiting the testimony to the transactions on the day
of the homicide. These rulings were made on certain questions propounded to the accused. His counsel asked: " Now,
I want to ask this question to the witness: I want you to
detail, with truth, to the jury everything that occurred in
reference to this business, from the time you shipped on
the 16th day of June until you left the vessel on the 6th day
of August'?"
This was objected to, and after argument the court, through
Goff, Circuit Judge, ruled as follows: "I have no objection
to your having the accused commence in his own way and
detail as to him is best, confining himself to the truth, just
what took place there on the morning of that day, and without any assistance from you, but I cannot permit him to detail
to the jury the incidents of the voyage from the time they left
Boston in June, as I understand your question to indicate."
Exception was taken. Counsel then proceeded: "Q. Did
you ship on the ' Olive Pecker'? A. Yes, sir. Q. Did you
have trouble with the captain ?"
This was objected to, and the court said: "I must say, -Mr.
McIntosh, that I fail to see the pertinency of testimony as to
a quarrel with the captain in June or in July. Suppose the
mate was a party, the charge is that of killing Saunders in

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

August and the testimony is confined to that time. You can
show, if you can, what was the feeling between the accused
and the mate, and that it was such growing out of previous
quarrels or threats by the mate to take the life of the accused,
or anything in that line which would tend to explain the standing of the parties at the time of this occurrence. Now, anything that bears upon what had taken place, so far as the
mate is concerned, can go before this jury." Exception was
taken.
Counsel continued: "Q. You shipped on board the 'Olive
Pecker' some time in June, 1897? A. Yes, sir. Q. Now
siate to the jury all that occurred between you and the mate
during that time, including all the facts and circumstances
attending the 6th of August?"
All that part of the question intended to elicit what occurred between the mate and the 6ook'from the time they
left Boston was objected to.
The court said: "The trouble, Mr. McIntosh, is this, in the
present condition of the testimony of this witness it is hard
to see'the pertinency of it now, but I do not say that it may
not be pertinent. You had better first let the witness detail
the transactions of the 6th of August, and if anything is
developed thereby which makes it pertinent to bring in
previous incidents as tending to explain what took place on
the 6th, it can come in." Exception was taken.
The accused was then asked: '5Detail to the court and jury
all the occurrences which took place on the morning of the
6th of August, 1897." Thereupon the accused gave his account of the transactions of that date, the trip to shore and
the subsequent arrest. After he had concluded his counsel
put this question: "Now state what trouble, if any, you had
had with this mate previous to this occasion?" The question
was objected to on the ground that the testimony of the witness should be confined to what occurred on the day of the
homicide. After argument, Goff, J., delivered this opinion:
"The reason I suggested to counsel for the accused that the
statement as to the occurrences relating to the killing, of the
mate should be stated as they took place on that day was that

OCTOBERl

TERI-U, 1897.

Opinion of the Court.

the testimony might be confined to a certain limit. Now,
there is no doubt in the world that a party may protect his
own life against the party assailing him. If he believes that
he is about to suffer harm from one who has attacked; if he
bases that belief upon a prev'ious threat; if he bases that
upon previous personal encounters; if he bases that upon the
known brutal character of the party, the law, out of tender
consideration for the frailties of human nature, will permit
him to act upon that belief and upon that understanding.
But can we apply that in this case? Now, we must look at
the matter as it is before the jury, a it is presented by this
witness. The witness states that he had a controversy with
the captain; that the captain was cruel to him; then, in that
hour, he turned to the mate and advised with the mate; he
asked the protection of the mate. His conduct, at least, does
not indicate that there was any feeling between him and the
mate at that time. If the testimony is admissible, it is upon
the theory that it must tend to explain the situation as it then
existed. He had turned to the mate to ask his protection
from the captain. Now, if the mate had attacked him, it
would be perfectly competent for Andersen to show that the
mate, previous to this day, had threatened him or had been
cruel to him. We must look at the testimony as the witness
has given it himself. It was the witness who sought the
mate, and not the mate who sought the witness. I fail to
see how a party can, under those circumstances, show, either
by himself or by another, that he had had a controversy with
the party he is about to attack, the day before or the week
before, if he has had time to cool. If there had been a controversy-of that kind, even under any circumstances of that
kind, it does not authorize the party to take the law into his
own hands. I must exclude the testimony and adhere to the
intimation I gave some time ago, on another ruling, with
reference to threats."
To this ruling exception was taken. Counsel then said:
"Now, in order that this matter may go down right, and
in order that I may save the point, but without any disrespect
to the court, I want to propound this question to the witness.

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

"Q.

I don't want you to answer this, Andersen, until the

court passes upon it. I want it to go down in the record. I
want to ask you whether on the day before you had had a
difficulty with the mate, and, without provocation on your
part, the mate had not attempted to throw you overboard?
"Mr. McIntosh. I understand that your honor rules that I
cannot ask that?
"The Court. The question is improper and cannot be
answered."
And to this, exception was taken.
The preliminary rulings of the court which required the
incidents of August 6 to be given at the outset are not open
to criticism. The point to be considered is whether evidence
of transactions previous to that day was admissible in the
light of the testimony of the accused in respect of what
passed on that day. It will be perceived that no specific offer
of proof was made. But, assuming that counsel had offered
to show by the accused that he had had trouble with the mate
previously to August 6, and that the day before he had had
a difficulty with him, and the mate, without provocation, had
attempted to throw the accused overboard, would such testimony by the accused have been admissible in view of his own
detailed account of the homicide and its surrounding circumstances? On what legal principle could it have been held to
have a tendency in justification, excuse or mitigation?
Andersen's story was that on the morning of August 6 he
had a difficulty with the captain about the dog; that the
captain cursed him, struck him and sent him on top the redhot stove and the pots and pans; that he subsequently appealed
to the mate for protection, and he treated the application with
scorn and profanity'; that some time afterwards he went to
the cabin to sweep it, and that the captain glared at him and
cursed him. He commenced sweeping the cabin, and started
into the mate's room first ;.saw the mate's gun lying on the
shelf and took it down, thinking that if the worst came to
the worst he would have to defend himself. He finished the
cabin and started into the captain's room; the captain arose
and was about to assault him with a bottle and he shot him.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

"Then I thought about the mate.

I ran into the captain's

ie ran up on deck; asked
room then and got his two guns."
Lind where the mate was; was told he was aloft; looked up
and saw him there, and called him down or waited for him.
As the mate came down he asked Andersen where he got the
guns and where the captain was, but Andersen made no answer to this, and stayed on top of the forecastle house. Then
as he stood on the house with the pistols, and the mate was
three feet below on the forecastle head, but coming towards
witness as if "to take the marlin spike off his neck and shove
the marlin spike into me," witness pulled his gun and shot
him. He shot him several times- the mate begging him not
to shoot. Immediately after that he called up the sailors and
the body was thrown overboard.
It is true that a homicide committMd in actual defence of
life or limb is excusable if it appear that the slayer was acting
under a reasonable belief that he was in imminent danger of
death or great bodilyharm from the deceased, and that his
act in causing death was necessary in order to avoid the death
or great bodily harm which was apparently imminent. But
where there is manifestly no adequate or reasonable ground
for such belief, or the slayer brings on the difficulty for the
purpose of killing the deceased, or violation of law on his part
is the reason of his expectation of an attack, the plea of self
defence cannot avail. Wallace v. United States, 162 U. S. 466 ;
Allen v. United States, 164 U. S. 492; Addington v. United
States, 165 U. S. 184.
According to his own statement, Andersen, after he had shot
the captain, thought about the mate, armed himself with the
captain's pistols, went in search of his victim, and finding him
aloft on the mainmast at work, called-him down, or, seeing
him coming down, awaited him, and shot him. ie was not
only the aggressor but the premeditated aggressor. The captain being dead, he knew the mate would assume command, and
that it would be his duty to arrest him and take him ashore
for trial. The imminent danger which threatened him was the
danger of the gallows. The inference is irresistible that to
avert that danger he killed the mate, cast the bodies into the

ANDERSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

sea, burned the ship and took to the open boat. There can be
no pretence that he was acting under a reasonable belief that
he was in imminent danger of death or great bodily harm at
the hands of the mate. lie testified, to be sure, that when he
had armed himself, gone in search of the mate, and stood on
the forecastle house ready to receive him, he thought the mate
was going to use against him the marlin spike, which he had
been using at his work in the rigging, and to protect himself
against that marlin spike, swung around the neck of a man
standing three feet below him, the accused shot him down
while he was asking for his life. It was, indeed, the duty of
the mate to attack Andersen as he stood there with three
pistols, fresh from the slaughter of the captain, and in open
mutiny. But as the accused told his story he was not repelling violence, and if the mate attempted to make use of the
marlin spike, it was simply in self defence.
The case as Andersen's testimony made it afforded no basis
for the introduction of evidence of prior provocation, or even
of injuries previously inflicted, for no overt act on the mate's
part provoked the evil intent with which Andersen sought him
out on this occasion. Such evidence would not have been relevant, in view of the circumstances, as tending either to make
out self defence or to reduce the grade of the crime.
We are not insensible to the suggestion that persons confined to the narrow limits of a small vessel, alone upon the
sea, are placed in a situation where brutal conduct on the part
of their superiors, from which there is then no possible escape,
may possess special circumstances of aggravation. But that
does not furnish ground for the particular sufferer from such
conduct to take the law into his own hands, nor for the suspension of those general rules intended for the protection of all
alike on land or sea.
7. Complaint is made because the court refused to allow a
witness to testify as to the general reputation of the captain.
If there had been any adequate basis for the contention that
Andersen killed the mate in self defence, by reason of a reasonable belief in imminent danger from him, evidence of his character for ferocity, brutality and vindictiveness might have been

OCTOBER TERI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

admissible. Sznith v. United States, 161 U. S. 85. But, as the
record stood, the character of the captain could have no legal
bearing on the issue of the guilt of the accused of the murder
of the mate.
8. Various instructions were asked'on behalf of the defendant, as well as on behalf of the Government, which were,
respectively, refused by the court, except so far as included
in the instructions given. But the only ruling in this regard
pressed on our attention is the alleged error of the court in
instructing the jury as follows: "The other felonious homicide to which I called yohr attention, manslaughter, is the
unlawful killing of a human being without malice, either
express or implied. I find it to be my duty, gentlemen of the
jury, to say to you that if the defendant has committed a
felonious homicide, of which you are the only judges, there
is nothing before you that reduces it below the grade of
murder."
This instruction was similar to that given by Mr. Justice
McKenna, then Circuit Judge, which was reviewed and approved in Spaifv. United States, 156 U. S. 51, 63. That case
is decisive of this, for the evidence disclosed no ground whatever upon which the jury could properly have reached the
conclusion that the defendant was only guilty of an offence
included in the one charged, or of a mere attempt to commit
the offence charged. The testimony of the accused did not
develop the existence of any facts which operated in law to
reduce the crime from murder to manslaughter.
The law, in recognition of the frailty of human nature,
regards a homicide committed under the influence of sudden
passion, or in hot blood produced by adequate cause, and
before a reasonable time has elapsed for the blood to cool, as
an offence of a less heinous character than murder. But
if there be sufficient -time for the passions to subside, and
shaken reason to resume its sway, no such distinction can be
entertained. And if the circumstances show a killing " with
deliberate mind and formed design,"-with comprehension
of the act and determination to perform it, the elements of
self defence being wanting, - the act is murder. iNor is the

PLAQUEMINES FRUIT COMPANY v. HENDERSON.

511

Counsel for PartiEs.

presumption of malice negatived by previous provocation,
having no causal connection with the murderous act, or separated from it by such an interval of time as gives reasonable
opportunity for the access of fury to moderate. Kerr on
Homicide,  68, et se.; 2 Bishop New Cr. L.  673, et se.;
Whar. Cr. L.  455, et se. ; and cases cited.
There is nothing in Stevenson's case, 162 U. S. 313, to the
contrary. The doctrine of Sparf's case is there reaffirmed,
that "the jury would not be justified in finding a verdict of
manslaughter if there were no evidence upon which to base
such a finding, and in that event the court would have the
right to instruct the jury to that effect."
No other error assigned requires notice. Judgment aflirmned.
MR.JUSTICE

MCKENNA

dissented.

PLAQUEMINES TROPICAL FRUIT COMPANY v.
HENDERSON.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 204. Argued April 15, 1098. -Decided

STATES FOR

May 2, 1698.

The courts of a State may take cognizance of a suit brought by the State,
in its own courts, against citizens of other States, subject to the right
of the defendant to have such suit removed to the proper Circuit Court
of the United States, whenever the removal thereof is authorized by
act of Congress, and subject also to the authority of this court to review
the final judgment of the state court, if the case be one within its
appellate jurisdiction.

TIE case is stated in the opinion.
Duane E. Fox for appellant.
.Mr.
was on his brief.,
-Mr. Fictor Leovy for appellees.

Mr. J. Ward Gurley

.Mr. Henry

Leovy, Mklr.
-.

