665

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. ARCHIBALD.
Opinion of the Court.

imposed a most severe and impracticable measure of liability
which operates with great hardship upon the prudent
-one
and careful owner, and one which is calculated to invite further legislation in the direction of the Harter Act.

TEXAS

ERROR

AND

TO

THE

PACIFIC RAILWAY
ARCHIBALD.
CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

COMPANY

APPEALS FOR

THE

v.

FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 20T. Submitted April 15, 1898. -Decided

May 23, 1893.

It is the duty of a railroad company to use reasonable care to see that the
cars employed on its road, both those which it owns and those which it
receives from other roads, ire in good order and fit for the purposes for
which they are intended, and this duty it owes to its employ~s as well
as to the public.
An employ6 of a railroad company has a right to rely upon this duty being performed, as, while in entering the employment lie assumes tile
ordinary risks incident to the business, he does not assume the risk arising from his employer's neglect to perform the duties owing to him with
respect to the appliances furnished.

TiE case is stated in the opinion.

_Mr. John F. Dillon, -Mr. Winslow S. Pierce and Mr. David
D. Duncan for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Janes Turner and Mr. J. Henry Shepherd for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit, commenced in a state court, was removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Texas, on the ground that the defendant was incorporated
under the laws of the United States. The object of the

OCTOBER TERI,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

action was to recover damages for a personal injury suffered
by the plaintiff whilst engaged as a switchman in the employ
of defendant. On the trial by a jury there was a verdict in
favor of the plaintiff, and the judgment of the trial court
entered on such verdict was subsequently affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. (41 U. S.
App. 567.) To that court error was prosecuted.
The errors assigned are based entirely on the theory that
the trial court erred in refusing to give to the jury certain
instructions asked by the defendant, and that the Court of
Appeals also fell into error in affirming the action of the
trial court. To clearly understand the contentions of the
plaintiff in error it becomes essential to outline the facts.
The Texas Pacific and the Cotton Belt Railway Companies
both had tracks entering the city of Shreveport. These
tracks of the two companies were connected. A short
distance off the line of the Texas Pacific there was a cotton
seed oil mill, which was united by a spur track with the
main line of railroad, as it ran through a railway yard. The
Cotton Belt delivered to the Texas Pacific two oil tank cars
in order that they might be by the latter delivered to the
oil mill, where they were to be filled and then redelivered by
the Texas Pacific to the Cotton Belt to be carried to their
point of destination over its line. The tank cars were placed by
the Texas Pacific near the oil mill on the spur track leading
thereto. At a subsequent time- there being conflict in the
testimony as to how long a period intervened -- one of the
tank cars having been filled with oil, the mill company
requested that the loaded car be moved and the empty car
be left on the spur track so that it might also be filled. To
accomplish this purpose an engine, with a box car, moved
down the spur track to couple to the oil cars, so as to place
the loaded one on the main track preparatory to delivering it
to the Cotton Belt. The plaintiff, a switchman, was ordered
to uncouple the loaded from the empty tank car. These cars
were both fitted with an appliance by which, if in good order,
the coupling pin could be removed by a lever without the
necessity of the switchman going between them. This appli-

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. ARCHIBALD.

667

Opinion of the Court.

ance, however, on the cars in question, ivhen the switchman
sought to use it, was found to be out of order, and he was
therefore compelled to lean in between the two cars to draw
out the coupling pin for the purpose of uncoupling, an operation shown to be usually resorted to when necessary. As he
was making this movement his feet became entangled, and
he was thereby suddenly exposed to the risk of being thrown
between the cars and to the danger of being crushed to death.
The entanglement of the feet of the switchman was caused
by a broken brake rod, with links of chain attached to it and
a hook at its end, whicli was hanging down under one of the
cars, and which, in the movement of the car, was projected
out into the space between the two cars, and caught the feet
and legs of the switchman 'as he leaned between the cars for
the purpose of doing the uncoupling. In his effort to escape
being thrown between-the slowly moving cars the right arm
of the switchman was caught between the drawheads of the
cars and was so badly crushed at the elbow that amputation
was rendered necessary.
There was proof tending to show that the Texas Pacific
inspected the cars in use on its road, not only those belonging to it but those delivered to it from other roads, and that
where a car was found out of order the inspector marked
upon it the nature of the defect found to exist, thereby giving warning on the subject to those who might -handle it.
The uncontradicted proof was that there were no marks on
the cars in question calling attention to any defect. There
was proof tending to explain the absence of a mark or marks
calling attention to the defective condition, by showing that
the car inspector of the Texas Pacific performed his duty at
a point called the junction, which was outside of the place
where the tracks of the Texas Pacific and Cotton Belt were
connected, and hence that where a car was delivered by the
Cotton Belt to the Texas Pacific by means of the connecting
track inside of the junction no inspection -of such cars was
made by the Texas Pacific. The proof tended to establish
that this was only necessarily the case where the car delivered by the Cotton Belt to the Texas Pacific, was by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Texas Pacific redelivered to the Cotton Belt by means of the
connecting tracks between the two roads, because when a car
was so redelivered it was not carried by the Texas Pacific
over its main track to the junction where the car inspector
was presumed to discharge his duties. In case of cars delivered as above stated, and which were not therefore inspected
by the Texas Pacific, there was proof giving rise to the inference that that company, in view of the fact that the cars
were not intended to go out over its line, relied on the inspection which it presumed had been made by the Cotton Belt.
The- tendency of the proof on the foregoing subject was not,
however, entirely concordant, as there was some proof tending to show that the duties of the car inspector of the Texas
Pacific extended not only to the inspection of cars at the
junction, but also to the inspection of cars received within
that point under conditions similar to those under which the
oil tank cars were received.
There are six assignments of error, the first of which may
be at once dismissed from view, as it simply avers that the
Court of Appeals erred in affirming the judgment of the trial
court, without any specification pf any particular error committed. The remaining five we will consider in their logical
sequence, rather than in the order in which they are pressed
in the brief of counsel. The consideration of the fourth and
fifth assignments involves substantially the same legal contention. The fourth rests upon the refusal of the trial judge
to give the following instruction:
"The duty to inspect cars coming from other roads applies
only when the car is to be sent out on the receiving road, and
does not apply when cars are switched from one road to be
loaded and returned to the road from which they were
received."
The fifth upon a like refusal to give this instruction:
"It is the duty of a railioad company to use ordinary care
in keeping the cars which their employCs are called on to
handle in repair, so as not to expose their employ6s to unnecessary danger, and this duty exists to use ordinary care to
inspect cars that come from other roads to be hauled over

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. ARCHIBALD.

669

Opinion of the Court.

their own roads. What is ordinary care is always measured
by the facts and circumstances of the particular case, and
ordinary care means more care in one case than in another.
The amount of care and caution to inspect cars coming from
other roads to be merely loaded and returned to the other
road is not so great as when the car is to be sent out of the
road of the defendant, because, in the first place, the car is to
be handled only by switchmen, who have a much better opportunity to observe any defect and protect themselves than
the trainmen do when a car is placed in a train and sent out
on the road. Now, if the defendant used ordinary care to
discover and repair defects in the car in question under the
circumstances in this case, then defendant is not liable."
That it was the duty of the railway company to use reasonable care to see that the cars employed on its road were in
good order and fit for the purposes for which they were
intended, and that its employ~s had a right to rely upon this
being the case, is too well settled to require anything but
mere statement. That this duty of a railroad as regards the
cars owned by it exists also as to cars of other railroads
received by it, sometimes designated as foreign cars, is also
Baltimore & Potomac Railroad Co. v. MWckey,.
settled.
91. Said the court in that case (p. 91): " Sound
72,
S.
157 U.
policy concur in sustaining the principle
public
reason and
is under a legal duty not to expose
company
that a railroad
from such defects in foreign
arising
its employs to dangers
cars as may be discovered by reasonable inspection before
such cars are admitted to its train." This general duty of
reasonable care as to the safety of its appliances resting on
the railroad, the instructions in question proposed to limit by
confining its performance solely to such foreign cars as are
received by a railroad "for the purpose of being hauled over
its own road." In other words, the proposition is that where
a car is received by a railroad only for the purpose of being
locally handled, the railway as to such local business is dispensed from all duty of looking after the condition of the cars
by it used, and may with complete legal impunity submit its
employ6s to the risk arising from its neglect of duty. To

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

this length the proposition plainly goes, as is shown by its
context, and is additionally illustrated by the argument at
bar.
The argument wants foundation in reason and is unsupported by any authority. In reason, because, as the duty of
the company to use reasonable diligence to furnish safe
appliances is ever present, and applies to its entire business,
it. is beyond reason to attempt by a purely arbitrary distinction to take a particular part of the business of the company
out of the operation of the general rule, and thereby to
exempt it, as to the business so separated, from any obligation
to observe reasonable precautions to furnish appliances which
are in good condition. Indeed, the argument by which the
proposition is supported is self-destructive, since it admits the
general duty of the employer just stated, and affords no
reason whatever for the distinction by which it is sought to
take the case in hand out of its operation. The contention
is without support of authority, since the cases cited to
sustain it are directly to the contrary. They are: Baltimore
& Potomac Railroac Co. v. 3llackey, supra, and two INew
York cases, Gottlieb v. .1.Y., Zake Erie &c. Raill'oad, 100
N. Y. 462, Goodric v. Yew York Central &c. Railroad,
116 N. Y. 398, both of which were cited approvingly in the
.Mackey case. The theory upon which in the argument at
bar it is claimed that the cases cited overthrow the very
doctrine which in truth they announce, is based upon the use
of the words in the -lackey case, "admitted into its train."
Taking this as a premise, it is said the duty of a railroad to
exercise reasonable diligence to furnish safe appliances exists
only as to cars "admitted into its train," that is, cars which
it receives and transports in one of its, trains, and does not
obtain as to cars which it receives and handles in its yards
for local purposes ony. It is obvious from a mere casual
reading of both the Tfackey case and the New York cases
relied upon that the duty on the part of the railroad which
they inculcate applies to all cars used by the road in its business. In addition, the case of Flanaganv. Chicago & 2orthwestern Railway, 45 Wisconsin, 98, is cited. But that case

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. ARCHIBALD.

671

Opinion of the Court.

gives no support whatever to the proposition. There a car,
which had been broken and damaged, was put upon a spur
track. To repair it, it became necessary to move it, and with
the knowledge that the car was broken employCs of the road
took charge of it to remove it to the repair shop. The ruling
was that under such circumstances the employ6 could not
recover because of the defective condition of the car, and
the case therefore but illustrates the 'general rule already
referred to.
The second and third requests to charge were as follows:
"If you believe that the defendant company had car inspectors at Shreveport, but that it was not their duty under
their employmenit to inspect cars that came from other roads
on to defendant's tracks merely for the purpose of being
loaded and returned, and if the cars that plaintiff was uncoupling when he was injured had been brought from the
Cotton Belt road to be loaded with oil and returned to said
road, and if the plaintiff knew or by the exercise of ordinary

care could have known that it was the custom of the defendant company not to inspect cars that were brought in, as they
were, to be returned, then the plaintiff would be held to assume the risk of being injured by reason of defects in said
ca's, and in such case he cannot recover.
"It appears in this case that plaintiff was injured while
coupling two cars that did not belong to defendant company,
but had been brought from the Cotton Belt road to be loaded
and returned to that road. Now, if you believe it was the
custom of defendant company not to inspect or repair cars
when thus brought over to be loaded and returned, and the
plaintiff knew this custom or could hav .known it by the exer-

cise of ordinary care, then he assumed the risk of being injured
by any defect in said car, and cannot recover."
These requests the court gave, except in the first it omitted
the words therein italicized, that is, "by the exercise of ordinary care could have known," and the second, "or could have
known it by the exercise of ordinary care." The court was
clearly right in striking the words from the requests. The
elementary rule is that it is the duty of the employer to fur-

OCTOBER TERAM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

nish appliances free from defects discoverable by the exercise
of ordinary care, and that the emplov has a right to rely
upon this duty being performed, and that whilst in entering
the employment he assumes the ordinary risks incident to the
business, he does not assume the risk arising from the neglect
of the employer to perform the positive duty owing to the
employ& with respect to appliances furnished. An exception
to this general rule is well established, which holds that where
an employ& receives for use a defective appliance, and with
knowledge of the defect continues to use it without notice to
the employer, he cannot recover for an injury resulting from
the defective appliance thus voluntarily and negligently used.
But no reason can be found for and no authority exists supporting the- contention that an employ6, either from his
knowledge of the employer's methods of business or from a
failure to use ordinary care to ascertain such methods, subjects himself to the risks of appliances being furnished, which
contain defects that might have been discovered by reasonable
inspection. The employer on the one hand may rely on the
fact that his employ6 assumes the risks usually incident to
the employment. The employ6 on the other has the right
to rest on the assumption that appliances furnished are free
from defects discoverable by proper inspection, and is not
submitted to the danger of using appliances containing such
defects because of his knowledge of the general methods
adopted by the employer in carrying on his business, or because by ordinary care he might have known of the methods,
and inferred therefrom that danger of unsafe appliances might
arise. The employ6 is not compelled to pass judgment on
the employer's methods of business or to conclude as to their
adequacy. He has a right to assume that the employer will
use reasonable care to make- the appliances safe and to deal
with those furnished relying on this fact, subject of course to
the exception which we have already stated, by which where
an appliance is furnished an employ6, in which there exists
a defect known to him or plainly observable by him, he cannot recover for an injury caused by such defective appliance,
if, with the knowledge above stated, he negligently continues

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. ARCHIBALD.

673

Opinion of the Court.

to use it. In assuming the risks of the particular service in
which he engages the employ6 may legally assume that the
employer, by whatever rule he elects to conduct his business,
will fulfil his legal duty by making reasonable efforts to furnish appliances reasonably safe for the purposes for which
they are intended; and whilst this does not justify an employ6 in using an appliance which he knows to be defective,
or relieve him from observing patent defects therein, it obviously does not compel him to know or investigate the employer's modes of business, under the penalty, if he does not do so,
of taking the risk of the employer's fault in furnishing him
unsafe appliances. In Davidson v. .Cornell, 132 N. Y. 228,
the court said:
"It is, as a general rule, true that a servant entering into
employment which is hazardous assumes the usual risks of the
service, and those which are apparent to ordinary observation, and, when he accepts or continues in the service with
knowledge of the character of structures from which injury
may be apprehended, he also assumes the hazards incident to
the situation. Gibson v. Erie Railway Co., 63 N. Y. 449; Do
Forest v. Jewett, 88 N. Y. 264; Sweeney v. Berlin & Jones
Envelope Co., 101 N. Y. 520; ilicey v. Taafe, 105 N. Y. 26 ;
12 N. E. Rep. 286; Williams v. Delaware, Lackawanna &c.
Railroad, 116 N. Y. 628. Those not obvious assumed by
the employ6 are such perils as exist after the muster has
used due care and precaution to guard the former against
danger. And the defective condition of structures or appliances which, by the exercise of reasonable care of the master,
may be obviated, and from the consequences of which he is
relieved from responsibility to the servant by reason of the
latter's knowledge of the situation, is such as is apparent to
his observation. -Hainv. Sinith, 89 N. Y. 375; McGovern v.
Csntral Vermont Railroad, 123 N. Y. 280."
In .Missouri Pao. Railway v. Lekinberg, 75 Texas, 61, 67,
the court considered a reflisal to give a requested instruction,
that if there were "any patent defects in the engine or tank,
and deceased knew, or might by ordinary diligence have
known of same, and said defects caused or contributed to the
VOL. CLXX-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

injuries complained of, the jury should find for defendants."
The court said:
"Without now considering the question whether the rule
in this respect charges an employ( with knowledge of defects,
except with regard to such appliances or instruments as he is
engaged himself in using, we think it sufficient to say that the
law does not, under any circumstances, exact of him the use
of diligence in ascertaining such defects, but charges him
with knowledge of such only as are open to his observation.
Beyond that he has the right to presume, without inquiry or
investigation, that his employer has discharged his duty of
furnishing him with safe and proper instruments and appliances."
Indeed, the ultimate result of the argument of the plaintiff
in error is to entirely absolve the employer from the duty of
endeavoring to supply safe appliances, since it subjects an employ6 to all risks arising from unsafe ones, if the business be
carried on by the employer without reasonable care, and the
employ6 knew or by diligence could have known, not of the
dangers incident to the business, but of the harm possibly
to result from the employer's neglectful methods. Measured
by the principles just stated the trial court not only did not
err in striking out parts of the instructions which were asked,
but in the portions given stated the law to the jury more
favorably to the plaintiff in error than was sanctioned by true
legal principles. The remaining assignment, the sixth, but
presents, in a changed form, the questions which we have disposed of.

Affirmed.
31.

JusTicE BR.EWER

dissented.

