SUPREME COURT.

JACOB HOUSE=AN, CLAIMANT,

OF

THE

SCHOONER

NORTH

&c.,

APPELLANT, V. THE CARGO

CAROLINA,

OLIVER

OHARA,

AGENT, &c., LIBELLANT.
The schooner North Carolina, bound from Appalachicola to Charleston, with a cargo
of cotton, part on account of the consignees, and part the property of the shipper,
struck on a reef about ninety-five miles from Key West; and the next morning one
hundred and ten bales of cotton were taken from her by the wrecking schooner
Hyder Ally, when she floated ; and she'sailed with the Hyder Ally to Indian Key,
and arrived there the same evening. The Hyder Ally was one of those wrecking
schooners in the profits of which Houseman was a participator. He became the
consignee of the North Carolina; and salvage being claimed by the master of the
Hyder Ally, a reference was made by the master of the North Carolina, and the
master of the wrecker, and by an award thirty-five per cent. was allowed as salvage;
and one hundred and two bales of cotton were put into the stores of Hquseman, in
part payment of the salvage; and one hundred dollars was paid in cash, and a draft
forsix hundred dollars, was given by the captain of the North Carolina, in further
satisfaction of the salvage, and the commissions of Houseman, with the vessel's
expenses. Afterwards, the consignees of the cotton sent an agent to Key West,
who proceeded, by a libel in his name, as agent, in the Superior Court of the
United States 'of Monroe county in Florida, alleging the facts; and by process issued by the Court, seventy-two bales of the cotton of the North Carolina
were attached in the hands of Houseman. The Court decreed that the libellant
should recover the seventy-two bales of cotton; and Houseman appealed to the
Court of Appeals In that Court, a supplemental libel was filed by the appellee,
claiming damages for the taking and the detention of fifty other bales of cotton,
making the whole number of one hundred and twenty-two bales, which ha,' gone
into the possession of Houseman. The Court of Appeals gave a decree in favour of
the appellee, for the value of one hundred and twenty-two bales. The Supreme
Court affirmed the decree as to the seventy-two bales, and set aside that part of the
decree which allowed the value of the fifty bales: leaving the consignees or owners
of the fifty bales to proceed- in the Superior Court of East Florida by a new libel
for the recovery of.the same or the value thereof.
There are many cases in which the contract of the captain, in relation to the amount
of salvage to be paid to the salvors, or his agreement to refer the question to arbitrators, would bind the owners. In times of disaster, it is always his duty to exercise
his best exertions for the benefit of both the vessel and
his best judgment, and to rise
cargo: and when, from his situation, he is unable to consult them or their agent,
without an inconvenient and injurious delay, it is in his power to compromise a
question of salvage; and he is not bound in all cases to 'wait for the decision of a
Court of Admiralty.
So, too, when the salvage service has not been important, and the compensation
demanded is a small one, it may often be the. interest of the owners, that the amount

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

41

[Houseman v. The Schooner North Carolina.]
should be settled at once by the captain; and the vessel proceed on her voyage, without waiting even a day for the purpose of consulting them. But in ali such cases,
unless the acts of the captain are ratified by the owners, his conduct will be carefully
watched and scrutinized by the Court; and his contracts will not be regarded as binding on the parties concerned, tinless they appear to have been bona fide; and such as
a discreet owner, placed in the same circumstances, would probably have made. If
he settles the amount by igreement, those who claim under it must show that the
salvage allowed was reasonable and just. -If he refers it to arbitrators, those who
claim the benefit of the award, must show that the proceedings were fair, and the
referees worthy of the trust.
The case is within the jurisdiction of a Court of Admiralty. It is a question of salvage
of a vessel which had been stranded on a reef in the ocean. The points in controversy are whether salvage is due; and if due, how much? The admiralty is the only
Court in which such questions can be tried.
It is well settled in admiralty proceedings, that the agent of absent owners may libel
-eitherin -his own *nkme,as agent, or in the name of his principals, as he thinks best.
That a power of attorney given subsequent to the libel is a sufficient ratification of
what he had before done in their behalf; and that the consignees of a cargo- have a
sufficient interest in the cargo that they may proceed in the admiralty for the recovery
not only of their own property, but for that part of it which may be consigned to
them.
An amendment in a case in the admiralty, before the Court, of Appeals, cannot introduce a new subject of controversy; although the most 4iberal principles prevail in
such cases.

ON appeal from the Court of Appeals of Florida.
This case. ws argued by Mr. Coxe for the appellant; and by
Mr. Downing for the owners of the schoon'er and cargo. The
facts are fully stated in the opinion of the Court.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion"of the Court.
This case arises upon a proceeding in admiralty, originally illstituted in the Superior Court of Monroe county, inithe southern
district of Florida, and afterwards carried to the Court'of Appeals
for that Territory. It is brought here by appeal from the deci.
sion of the lastmentioned Court.
Several questions have been raised in the argument upon the
form and manner of proceeding in the Territorial Courts, qs well
as upon the merits of the controversy; and it becomes necessary
to state fully the facts in the record, in order to show the points
in dispute, and the principles on which they are decided.
The schooner North Carolina, George M'Intyre, master, sailed
D2

6

42

SUPREME COURT.
(Houseman v. The Schooner North CarolinL.]

from Appalachicola about the 9th of March, 1833, laden with
cotton, and bound for Charleston, in South Carolina. The cargo
was shipped by William G. Porter, of Appalachicola, and consigned to J. & C. Lawton, of Charleston, part of it being shipped
on account of the consignees, and part on account of Porter, with
directions from him to sell his portion, as soon as the cqnsignees
thought it for his interest; and to credit the proceeds in his account.
Upon the night of the 14th of March, being five days out, the
vessel struck upon the Pickles reef, which is about ninety-five
miles from Key West. She was discovered on the next morning
by the wrecking schooner Hyder Ally, Joshua B. Smith, master,
who took from her deck one hundred and ten bales of cotton,
when she floated; and both vessels sailed for the Indi n Key,
wherd they arrived the same evening. The North Carolina had
grounded about twelve o'clock at night, and was got off at four
o'clock in the afternoon of the following day. She sustained very
little injury; not enough to have prevented her from proceeding
immediately on her voyage. The weather was moderate while
she was on the reef; and the Hyder Ally'ran no risk, and encountered no hardship in assisting her, beyond the mere labour of
taking off the portion of her deck load above mentioned, and
carrying it to the Indian Key. It is stated, however, that the
Pickles reef is considered a dangerous one; that it came on to
blow fresh about two hours after the North Carolina was relieved; and that she would probably have been lost if she had
remained bn the reef the ensuing night.
The Indian Key is a small island of a few acres of land; and
is about ten or twelve hours sail from Key West, where there is
a port of entry, and a court of the United States having admiralty jurisdiction. It appears, by the testimony, that Houseman,
the appellant, was the only man at the, Indian Key who could
have advanced money to M'Intyre to pay the salvage. He
had a warehouse there, and owned a schooner which was employed in the wrecking business; and this vessel of Houseman's,
in the langige of the wreckers, consorted with the Hyder Ally,
and with a sloop commanded by a man by the name of Packer;
that is~to say, these three vessels shared equally in the gains made
by either of them.' Hoaseman was therefore entitled to a pro-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

43

[Houneman v. The Schooner North Carolina.]

portion of whatever could be obtained for salvage from the North
Carolina; and had a direct interest in making it as large as he
could. It does not appear that he was engaged in any other
business except that of wrecking on the Florida coast
Notwithstanding this interest of Houseman, he was appointed
by M'Intyre, consignee of his vessel and, cargo, as soon as he
arrived at the Indian Key; and he charged and. received commission to the amount of one hundred and fifty-six dollars and
forty-five cents for his services in arranging the question of salvage, on behalf of the owners. The evidence does not show
whether M'Intyre was apprised of Houseman's connection with
the salvors; aid in so far as this case is concerned it is not necessary to inquire whether he was or was not aware of Houseman's
interest. M'Intyre's conduct leads strongly to the conclusion
that he was not deceived, and that he knowingly betrayed the
interest of the owners. But he is no party to this dispute. 'The
question is between the owners and Houseman; and certainly
his claim would not be strengthened by showing that he concealed his interest from M'Intyre, and obtained his confidence by
leading him to believe that he had no interest in the question of
salvage.
However this, may be, M'Intyre was 'induced by some means
or other to refer the matter to the arbitrament of two men, by the
name of Otis and Johnson, who are described in the survey held
on the North Carolina as shipmasters. But we have no account
of the characters or standing of these men; nor of the nature of
their business and pursuits at the Indian Key: nor have we and
thing in the record to show how far their judgment and impartiality could be relied upon in the matter referred.
The referees thus chosen awarded thirty-five per cent. on the
vessel and cargo; and thereupon the cotton brought bythe Hyder
Ally, together with so much in addition from the North Carolina,
as made up the number of one hundred and twenty-two bales,
were immediately landed and put into the warehouse of Houseman in payment of the salvage on the cargo, and M'Intyre gave
Smith one hundred dollars in cash, and a draft on hig consignees
for six hundred dollars in payment of the salvage on the vessel;
and it is said in the testimony, that Houseman gave. Smith the
money for the draft.' As soon as the affair of the salvage was

44

SUPREME COURT.
[Houseman v. The Schooner North Carolina.]

settled, M'Intyre proceeded with the North Carolina on the
voyage to Charleston.
Upon his arrival there, however, it would seem that his consignees were not satisfied with what he had done; and on the
18th of May following, Oliver O'Hara, the present appellee, as
agent for J. & C. Lawton, the consignees of the vessel, filed his
libel on the admiralty side of the Superior Court for the southern
judicial district of Florida, stating, generally, that a part of the
cotton composing the cargo of the North Carolina had been taken
from her while lying on the Florida reef by the wrecking
schooner Hyder Ally, Joshua B. Smith, master; which together
with the North Carolina was carried into the harbour of Indian
Key, where a large portion of the said cotton was still kept, and
illegally detained from the libellant; and he prayed process
against the cotton in, order that it might be delivered to him. We
do not profess to give the words of the libel, and state its substance in order to show that it was altogether a proceeding in
rem; it did not allege that any particular person was in possession of the cotton or cldimed it, but metely that it was unlawfully
detained.
Process was issued accordingly, and seventy-two bales of cotton attached under it. Houseman appeared as claimant, ann
upon his application, it was d~livered to him upon stipulation,
being valued by agreement of parties at the sum of $2,376, and
the security entered for that sum.
It is not necessary to state at large .the further proceedings
which took place in the Superior Court; nor the amendments
and alterations which were afterwards made by both parties in
the Territorial Court of Appeals. The pleadings and proceedings areimperfect and irregular in both courts. The particular
defects which have been supposed to be material will hereafter
be noticed. The Superior Court of the Territory upon the final
hea iing decreed restitution of the seventy-two bales above mentioned; and H'ouseman appealed froni this decree to the Court of
Appeals of the Territory, where new pleadings were filed on
both sides, and where the libellant proceeded for the one hundred and twenty-two bales taken in salvage, and charged that it

was forcibly and wrongfully taken, and claimed damages for the
marine tort. The ,ourt of Appeals sustained his claim for the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

45

[Houseman v. The Schooner North Carolina.]

whole amount of the cotton, with interest and costs; increasing
in its decree the valuation of the seventy-two bales beyond the
sum for which the stipulation was taken in the Superior Court;
and from this decree Houseman has appealed to this Court.
Three questions have been raised here in the argument.
1. Was the transaction in relation to the salvage an honest and
fair one; and are the acts of the captain of 'the North Carolina
binding upon the owners of the vessel and cargo ?
2. Was the matter in controversy within the jurisdiction of the
Court of Admiralty?
3. Assuming those two points to be in favour of the libellants,
is there any thing in the form of the proceedings and pleadings,
which will bar him of his right to recover?
Upon the first question, we have no doubt that there may be
ceses in which the contract of the captain in relation to the
amount of salvage to be paid to the salvors; or his agreement to
refer the question to arbitrators, would bind the owners. In
times of disaster it is always his duty to exercise his best judg-.
ment, and to use his best exertions for the benefit. of the owners
of both vessel and cargo; and when, from his situation, .he is
unable to consult them or their agent, without an inconvenient
and injurious delay, it is in his power to compromise a question
of salvage; and he is not bound in all cases to wait for the decision-of a Court of Admiralty.
So, too, when the salvage service has not been important, and
the compensation demanded is a small one, it may often be the
interest of the owners, that the amount should be settled at once
by-the captain, and the vessel proceed on her voyage, without
waiting even a day for the purpose of consulting them. But in
all such cases, unless the acts of the captain are ratified by the
owners, his conduct will be carefully watched and scrutinized by
the Court, and.his contracts will not be regarded as binding upon
the parties boncerned, unless they appear to have been bona
fide, and such as a discreet owner placed in the like circumstances, would probably have made. If he settles the amount by
agreement, those who claim under it must show that the salvage
allowed was reasonable and just. If he refers it to arbitrators,
those who claim the benefit of the award must show that the
procedings-were fair, and the referees worthy of the trust.

46

SUPREME COURT.
[Houseman v. The Schooner North Carolina.]

But in this case the conduct of the captain is without excuse.
The salvage demanded was exorbitant. The danger of the
North Carolina was by no means imminent when shq, was discovered by the Hyder Ally; nor did the latter incur any hazard
in going to her relief. The weather was moderate, and she
floated in a few hours, as soon as one hundred and ten bales of
cotton were taken from *her. She had sustained but very little
injury, and was found to be in a condition to proceed with safety
on her voyage without any repairs. And if the one hundred
and ten bales, 'instead of being delivered to the wrecking
schooner, had been thrown overboard, the North Carolina
would have floated, and might have proceeded directly on her
voyage. But if these agreements and this award are to be
carried into execution, ihe owners of the cargo lose one hundred
and twenty-two bales, instead of one hundred and ten. The
vessel is also charged with seven hundred dollars; and the commissions and expenses paid to Houseman, amount to nearly two
hundred more: so that according to this arrangement at Indian
Key, the owners would actually lose between twelve and thirteen hundred dollars, by the interference of the Hyder Ally;
and they would have saved that much money, if their vessel
had been let alone, and had been compelled to relieve herself
from the reef, by throwing the one hundred and ten bales into
the ocean.
. Where a demand so unreasonable was made upon the captain
of the North Carolina, it was his duty to have proceeded to a
port of entry, and to have brought the subject before the proper
tribunal; at the same time, advising the owners or consignees
of the vessel, of what had happened, in order that they might
have an opportunity of attending to their own interests. He
could, in a very few days, have communicated from Key West,
with either Charleston or Appalachicola; and no reason whatever
is assigned for this hurried and extraordinary settlement at the
Indian Key. The fact that the settlement was made at such a
place,. under such circumstances, without proceeding to Key
West, or some other port of entry, and without communicating
with the persons interested, would of itself have been a badge of
fraud; and if the amount allowed to the salvors, had been fir
less, it would yet have required clear and satisfactory proof that

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

47

[Houseman v.The Schooner North Carolina.]
it was reasonable and moderate, and for the interest of the
owners, before it would be sanctioned in a Court of Admiralty.
But the transactions at the Indian Key were evidently in bad
faith. In the first place, Houseman, the present claiiant of the
cotton, becomes the consignee of the vessel and cargo, and takes
upon himself to represent, the interest of the owners, when he
himself is a partner with the salvors, and has a direct interest
in pushing the salvage to the highest possible amount. And
then, as if to give the appearance of fairness to the transaction,
on his part, and as if conscious 1hat it would need all the support
that would be given to it, he endeavours to account for making
the settlement at Indian Key, by showing that he and Smith, the
master of the Hyder Ally, both advised M'Intyre to go to Key
West, and 'that he positively refused; and so sensible are the
parties concerned of the suspicions which such a settlement,
made at such a place, would bring upon them, that a certificate
is taken from M'Intyre, declaring that he had submitted to the
arbitration of his own free will, and was satisfied with the award.
Now if any good reason had been assigned to the salvors by
M'Intyre, for his refusal to go elsewhere- to settle the salyage,
the Court might give some weight to their advice, and his refusal. But how does his refusal, without any sufficient reason,
strengthen the cause of the claimant. M'Intyre, himself, is
strongly implicated in this transaction; and his acts and declarations cannot be received to prove the innocence of those with
whom he was associated. This advice and this refusal to follow
it, without any apparent reason, on the part of M'Intyre, together with the certificate given to Smith, look very much like
contrivances to give the colour of fairness and frank dealing to
a transaction, which in truth was one of an opposite character.
The mode of settlement also, is exceedingly suspicious. M'Intyre
exercises no judgment upon the value of the salvage service, but
it is referred. Yet, he does not appear to have known any thing
about the referrees, nor have we any account of their characters,
or of their fitness for such a trust. They are called shipmasters,
in the survey held on the North Carolina; but we do not learn
from the testimony, what kind of vessels they commanded, nor
what was their business at that time, at Indian Key.
If M'Intyre meant to deal justly with his owners, how could

48

SUPREME COURT.
[Houseman v. The Schooner North Carolina.]

he- refer so grave a matter to men of whom he knew nothing,
and whose situation obviously placed all their feelings and partialities on the other side. If Houseman, his consignee, made
the selection for him, then both of the arbitrators were, in fact,
selected by the salvors, and in that case, we ought not to b1e surprised at the extravagance of the avard.
Upon the whole, it is clear, 1st, That M'Intyre had no authority to bind his owners by the settlement at Indian Key.
2d, That the settlement relied on by the claimant, was fraudulently made; and, 3d, That the salvors, by their conduct, have
forfeited all claim to compensation, even for the service actually
rendered; and the owners are entitled to recover the value of
all the cotton-delivered for salvage, at Indian Key.
This brings us to the second inquiry, was the 'matter in controversy, within the jurisdiction of the Court of Admiralty ?
Now, the matter in dispute, is merely a question of salvage.
A vessel stranded on a reef, extending into the ocean, and, in
order to relieve her, another vessel came alongside, and took
off a part of her cargo, which has been detained, together with
a further portion of the cargo, for salvage. The points in controversy are, whether salvage is due, and if due, how much? Upon
such questions, there can be no doubt of the jurisdiction of a
Court of Admiralty; nor of its authority to proceed in rem, and
attach the property detained. The Admiralty is the only Court
where such a question can be tried; for what other Court, but a
Court of Admiralty, has jurisdiction to try a question of salvage?
The claimant in this case, was a partner with those actually engaged in the salvage service. The seventy-two bales of cotton
attached, were still in his hands; and the residue bad been sold
by him; and whether his purchase from his partners, mentioned
in the testimony, was real or colourable, he must be regarded as
one of the original wrongdoers, who detains on land property,
taken at sea, apon a"claim of salvage, to which he has no title.
In the case of Peisch and others v. Ware and others, 4 Cranch,
347, which, in principle, is perfectly analogous to this, (so far. as
the point of jurisdiction is concerned,) the power of the Court of
Admiralty does not appear to have been questioned either by
the Court, or at the bar.
The third and last point remains to be considered-whether

JANUARY- TERM, 1841.

49

[Houseman v. The Schooner North Carolina.]

there is any thing in the form of proceeding, or in the pleadings,
sufficient to bar the recovery of the libellant.
An objection has been taken to the right of the appellee to
sue in his own name, as agent for the consignees, or to sue at all;
as his power of attorney from them bears date after the libel
was filed; and it has also been objected, that J. and C. La-ton,
the consignees, had no right to institute proceedings to recover
any thing more than their proportion of the cargo shipped on
their own account.
No authority has been produced in support of these objections; and we consider it as well settled 'in admiralty proceedings, that the agent of absent owners may libel either in his own
name, as agent, or in the name of his principals, as he thinks
best; that the power of attorney, subsequent to the libel, is a
sufficient ratification of what he had before done in their behalf;
and that the consignees had such an interest in the whole cargo,
that they may lawfully proceed in this case, not only forwhat
belonged to them, and was shipped on their account, but for that
portion also which was shipped by Porter, as his own, and consigned to them.
We have already said that the pleadings are exceedingly irregular. The goods were lawfully taken from the North Carolina, in order to relieve her from distress; and there is no room
for supposing that either force or fraud was used by the Hyder
Ally in order to obtain them; salvage had undoubtedly been
earned; and when these proceedings were instituted, the real
dispute was whethe" the fraudulent conduct of the salvors had
forfeited their claim to salvage; and. if it had not, how much
was justly due. It is singular enough, that neither the libel nor
the claim put in by Houseman, make the slightest mention of
the real controversy; and it is not until the case is in the appel-.
late Court, that the pleadings disclose the matter in dispute.
And it is proper here, to say, that if the Court upon the testimony of the witnesses, had entertained any doubt as to the true
character of the transactions at the Indian Key, that doubt would
have been removed by the evasive answers of Houseman. Thiey
indicate, in a way too plain, to be mistaken, his unwillingness to
disclose the manner in which he obtained the cotton, which had
been attached by the marshal; and his desire to conceal his
7
VOL. XV.-E

SUPREME COURT.
[Houseman v. The Schooner N6rth Carolina.]

partnership concern with the Hyder Ally, and his interest in the
salvage obtained from the North Carolina.
It is not necessary to remark upon the defects in the pleadings
in the Superior Court of the territory where the proceedings were
originally instituted; because the parties had a right to make any
amendments in the appellate Court that were required to bring
forward the merits of the case: and the remaining question is,
whether the amendments 'allowed exceeded these limits; and
whether a new case was not presented there, different- from
that which was carried up by appeal.
There were seventy-two bales of cotton condemned by the
decree of the Superior Court. The libel claimed an indefinite
number, but only seventy-two were attached; and as the proceeding was altogether in rem, and the 'libellant did not claim
the value of the cotton sold, nor allege that any had been sold;
the only relief he was entitled to, was the condemnation of these
seventy-two bales. The claimant appealed from this decree;
the libellant did not appeal. The case, theiefore, carried up,
was the controversy about the seventy-two bales; the libellant
resting satisfied with the decree which condemned them, and the
claimant seeking to reverse it. This was the.res in controversy;
and in so far as these seventy-two bales were concerned, either
party was authorized to make amendments, or to introduce new
evi dence, in order to support his title in the appellate Couit.
But the libellant could not introduce a new subject of controversy;
and the amendment which brought into the case the additional.
fifty bales, was the introduction of a new res, which did not go
up by the appeal; and could not be originally instituted in an
appellate Court. We think that this amendment is not justified
by admiralty practice; although it is well known that the most
liberal principles prevail in Admiralty Courts, in relation to
amendments. The same may be said of that part of the libel
in the Court of Appeals, which is against the claimant in personam, in order to recover damages for a marine tort, in addition
to the value of the property withheld. There was no such
-charge made by the libellant in the Superior Court, nor any
decree made there in relation to such damages; and no such
question could therefore be carried up by the appeal of the

JANUARY TERM, 18,11.

51

[Houseman v. The Schooner North Carolina.]

claimant. It was a new claim, and originated in the Court of
Appeals.
Neither was the appellate Court authorized to fix a higher
value upon the seventy-two bales than that for which the stipulation was taken. It was a substitute for the cotton delivered to
the complainant; and upon the appeal, stood in the place of it,.
and represented it in the appellate Court. It could not, therefore, be put aside, and a new valuation substituted in its place.
It follows, from these principles, that the decree of the appellate Court was erroneous. But there was certainly enough in
the pleadings to authorize the Court to affirm the decree of the
Superior Court, for the seventy-two bales; and the evidence
would most abundantly justify such a decree. And as we have
no doubt that the value of the remaining fifty bales are justly
due fiom the claimant, the decree will be reversed, without prejudice to the rights of the parties interested in these fifty bales;
and the right reserved to them to proceed, by a new libel in the
proper Court, to assert their claims.
The decree of the Court of Appeals for the territory of Florida,
must therefore be reversed, and the case remanded to the said
Court, with directions to enter a decree for the value of the
seventy-two bales of cotton, as fixed by the stipulation, with
interest from the date of that instrument, and costs ; reserving to
the owners, or othdrs interested in the cargo of the North Carolina, the right to institute proceedings, in the proper Cdurt of
Admiralty, to recover the value of the remaining fifty bales. with
interest and costs.

