JANUARY TERM, 1841.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. JOHN FrrzGERALD AND HIPOLITE. FITZGERALD, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
John Fitzgerald had been appointed, in 1833, Inspector of the Customs for the District
of Missis ppi; and by the Collector at New Orleans, he had been employed as boarding officer at the south-west pass on the Mississippi river, and went into possession
of a tract of land which had been occupied by a former boarding officer i the service
of the United States. The Collector was not instructed by the Treasury Department to place the boarding officer on that, or any other tract of land; nor was he
bound to reside there. The United States had provided no accommodations for
the boarding officer. The Collector had never, before possession was so taken,
requested that the land should be reserved for the useof the boarding officer, or of the
custom house at New Orleans. John Fitzgerald, on the 18th June, 1835, entered the
tract of land with the Register of the Land Office in New Orleans, and he and Hipolito Fitzgerald, his wife, expended their own money on the improvements of the trait,
and complied with all the requisitions of the laws of the United States granting preemption rights. Proof was made, before the R gister of the Land Office, of the
possession and cultivation of thq tract of land in 1833; and the purchase money was
paid to the United States. The acting Commissioner of the Land Office, on the
3d November, 1836, wrote to the Register of the Land Office at New Orleans,
stating that the Secretary of the Treasury had directed that the land should be
reserved from sale for the use of the custom house at New Orleans, and requesting
that it should be marked as reserved from sale on the plats of land in his office. The
Circuit Court of Louisiana dismissed the petition which had been presented by the
United States, claiming this land, and decreed that John and Hipolite Fitzgerald
should be quieted in the possession of the land; and on appeal to the Supreme Court
the decision of the Circuit Court was affirmed.
No law is known to exist which. deprives an officer in the service of the United States
of a right to acquire a portion of the public lands, by any mode of purchase common to other citizens.
If a tract of land has been severed from the public domain, by a legal appropriation of
itfor any public purpose, no right can be acquired to it by cultivation or possession;
because the land thus severed is not subject to the pre-emption law.
It cannot be pretended that the land held by John and Hipolite Fitzgerald was reserved
from sale, by an act of Congress, or by order of the President. The direction of the
Secretary of the Treasury, to reserve it from sale, several months after it had been
sold and paid for, would not amount to such a reservation.
No appropriation of public land can be made for any purpose, but by authority of an
act of Congress. By the 3d section of the Constitution of the United States, power
is given to Congress to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property of the United States. No authority is known to
exist in any Collector, under a law of Congress, to make an appropriation of land
for the use ofhe United States.

408

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Fitzgerald.]

If an act of Congress had directed a lighthouse to be erected on the tract of land held
by John and Hipolite Fitzgerald, before they had entered it, according to the decision
of this Court in the case of Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 498, this would have
been an appropriation of the tract to the use of the United States, within the
meaning of the act of Congress of 29th of May, 1830; and Tiould have taken
away the right of pre-einption.

-

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for East
Louisiana.
'The United States, by a petitory action in the Circuit Court
of Louisiana, claimed a tract of land, situated in the parish of
Plaquemine, on the river Mississippi, below the port of New
Orleans.
This land, one hundred and sixty acres, had been entered by
the defendants in error, under a pre-emption right alleged to be
foundedl on the possession aA cultivation of the tract, commencing in 1833. The entry had been regularly made in the
office of the Register of Public Lands, in Louisiana, under the
act of Congress of 1834, on the 18th of June, 1836, and the purchase m6ney paid to the United States. John Fitzgerald, on the
6th of May,"1f833, had been appointed an Inspector of the
Customs for the P'rt of New Orleans, and was despatched by
the Collector of that port to the.south-west pass of the Mississippi
river, in order to discharge the duties of boarding officer. He
was stationed at a prbpeirpint, on the river, and himself and
his wife took possession of ahouise which.had. been occupied by
a former boarding officer, on the public lands of tbe:United States.
The government had provided no place for the residence of the
boarding officer. The land was cultivated and improved by
John Fitzgerald and Hipolite Fitzgerald, his wifQ, in the manner
which, by the laws of the United States, gave them a preemption right to the same; unless there had been a previous
appropriation, by the United States, of the tract for public
purposes.
Some months after the entry of the land and the payment of
the purchase money, the Secretary of the Treasury, through the
acting Comm sioner of Public Lands, directed the tract to be
reserved from sale for the use of the United States.
The United States proceeded,by this action, in the Circuit Co.urt,

JANU4ARY TERM, 1841.
..The United States v;

409

tramd1

to establish their right to the land; alleging that*Fitzgerald and
his wife had acquired no right, or title to the land, but that the
same continued a part of the -public lends of the United S.ates.
They averred that the possession which had been taken of the
land by John Fitzgerald and his wife, had been for the use of the.
'United States; John Fitzgerald being at the 'time an officer in
'the service of the United States.
The Circuit Court ordered the petition of the United .States to
be dismissed: and 'decreed that the defendants in error should be
confirmed in their title to the land.
The United States prosecuted this writ of error.
The case wqs argued by Mr. Gil ,Attorney General for
the United States; and by Mr. Bell, for the defenlants in error.,
Mr. Gilpin, for the'United States.
The mouth of the Mississippi river c6nsists AS is well knd-vin'
of five outlets ok "1passes," as they are called,which run through
the narrow bahks or tongues of alluvial land that stretch into
the' Gulf of Mexico. The principal of these,'the south-we.t,
pass, extends for almost fifteen miles into the' ocean ha ving on
each side a narrow margin, chiefly of-swamp. In some places
this bank between the river and the ocean,,is not more than
three or four hundred yards in width. In' other places it :has
greater breadth. 'On this narrow strip, on 'the west'side of the
river, a short distance above the Balize, or extreme mouth of
the Mississippi, is a spot which afforded a small space sufficiently
protected to enable f'he boarding officer attached to the custonf
house at New Orleans, to have a sort of land station. It was so
occupied, as is in .evidence in this cause, as earlr as.the year
1830 ; and by common repute,- and without doulbt, it had been'
'so occupied long before. On the 2d of March, 1829, Congress,
by law, directed a stirveypf th e passes of the Mississippi, with a
view to the improvement of their navigation, and the building
of lighthouses, (8Laws U. S. 202 ;)' and on the 3d. of March,
1831, they passed an act appropriating forty thousand dollars
for buildjng a lighthouse on the south-west pass, and another
near the Balize. The boarding station at the former place may
be'regarded as being,-in the contemplation of Congress, the spot
VOL. XV.-2 M
52

410

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Fitzgerald.]

.for the former, it being, as the evidence in this case states, the
only spot in that region where such a station" could be made.
•In the year 1833, four years after the survey, and two years
after the appropriation foi building the lighthouse, the Collector
of the customs at New Orleans, employed the defendant, John
Fitzgerald, as all Inspector, and stationed him as the boarding
officer, in the cruising vessel at .the south-west pass. He was
allowed to be occasionally on sho're at a convenient place on the
pass, and the spot in question had always been used for that
purpose. There was a house there; but by whom originally built
does not appear. There is no evidence of its being built by
the United States, nor any of its erection by the defendant. The
Collector says, that finding this place "so usdd by the boarding
officer, he continued him there without any special instruction
from the President,,or the Secretary of the.Treasury."
On the 6th of March, 1834, the legislature of Louisiana passed
a law, cedihg the civil and criminal jurisdiction over the land to
the United States.
On the 29th May, 1830, an act 'of Congress was passed,
(4 Story's Laws, 2213,) to grant pre-emption rights to settlers
on the public lands. The provisions of that act were, that every
"settler or occupant" of the ptblic lands, who was then in possession, and had cultivated it in he year 1829, might enter at
the land office not more than one hundred and sixty acres, to
include his improvement, at the minimum price. If there were
two or more persons settled on the same quarter section, it might
be divided betwedn them, and- each enter eighty acres elsewhere.
Before entry under the act, proof of settlement or improvement
was to be made to the Register and Receiver, agreeably to the
rules prescribed by the General Land Office. No entry was to
be made under the act of any land which was either "reserved
for the use of the United States, or either of the several states,
or reserved from sale by act of Congress, or by order of the
President, or which might have been appropriated for any purpose whatever." This law was to expire in one year from its
date. On the loth June, 1830, and th6 14th September, 1830,
full rules Were prescribed by the Commissioners of the General
Land Office relative to the execution of this law, directing the
precautions-to b6 iaken in regard to proof of occupancy
and

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

411

[The United States'v. Fitzgerald.]

cultivation, what was the meaning of those terms, and requiring
actual payment. 2 Birchard's Land Laws, 539. 545. On the
10th June, 1834, an act was passed to revive the pre-emptioa act.
of 1830, which gave, for two years from its passage, all the
privileges of that act to every settler or occupant of the public
'lands who was tben in possession, and had cultivated any part
thereof, in the year 1833. On the 22d of July, f864, full .Tules
were issued by the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
(2 Birchard's Land.Laws, 589,) as the law required, and directions were given as to the nature and mode of proof by which
the pre-emptor's right was to be ascertained. On the 29th February, 1836, additional rules (2 Birchard's Land Laws, 624) 6n
the savue subject were- issued, as the period at which this, privi-,
lege was about expiring approached; in this, the regulations ap to
roof were more fully set forth, especially in the cases where
floating rights were claimed by an alleged settlement of morel
than one person.. On the 2d June, 1836, John Fitzgerald and
Hipolite Fitzgerald his wife, made an affidavit before W. B. G.
Taylor, a justice of the peace in the parish of Plaquemines, annexed to an application to the Register and Receiver at New
Orleans to 'become the purchasers of one hupdred and sixty acres
of land, being section 8, of township 24, range 30 east, under the'
provisions of the act of 19th June, 1834, ahid stated that they
had cultivated the same and were in actual possession and occupancy thereof at the date of the law. On the 3d June, the day
after, a deposition was made by two persons before the same
justice, stating, generally, that the facts set forth in the application of Fitzgerald and his wife were true. On the 18th of June,
the-day on which the act expired, an application for a float for
one hundred and sixty acres in.addition, appears- to have been
made, but is not signed by either Fitzgerald or his wife. On the
same day is a certificate signed by the Register at New Orleans.
stating, "that the foregoing. lots contain three hundred and
twenty-seven acres and a half, as stated in the foregoing application, according to the returns of the Surveyor General, and thot"
the price agieed upon is one dollar and twenty-five cents an
acre." On the 3d of November, 1836, a letter was addressed to
the Register, by the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
stating that the application of "John Walker" to entei section 8,

SUPREME COURT.
[The United'States v. Fitzgerald.J

township 24, range 30 east, had been received from him, but
that the Secretary of the Treasury has directed it to be reserved
from sale, as important for the use of the Custom House, and he
directs him to apprize Mr. Walker, and Messrs. John and Hipoite Fitzgerald that no entry, whatever, can be permitted.
Fitzgerald, however, subsequent to the termination of his office
as an inspector, continued to assert his right to the property as
pxe-emptor, which had become valuable from the lighthousie
being erected upon it; and, on the 5th of January, 1837, a petition was filed, by the District Attorney, in the Circuit Court of
the United States in Louisiana, setting forth this claim, denying
its legality, and praying that they should be adjudged to deliver
up. possession of the land to the United States. On the 20th
February, 1837, the defendants filed their answer, in which John
Fitzgerald admitted that he was boarding officer at the southwest pass, and stated that he was under the necessity of "procuring accomodations" there, the same not being furnished by
the United States; and that he was entitled to the benefits of the
pre-emption law; they, therefore, prayed that the 'suit might be
dismissed, and all other relief granted that the nature of the case
might require. On the 28th December, 1839, the Circuit Court,
the District, Judge alone sitting, gave judgment "that the deiendants be quiated in their possession of the premises in dispute,
and that the plaintiffs take nothing- by their petition." On the
21st April, 1840, a writ of error was issued from this Court.
It is submitted that this judgment was erroneous; because
1. A decree to quiet the possession of the defendant, was.not
one which the Court could properly render in this suit against
the United States.
2. The defendant could not, at the time this guit was brought,
claim .the benefits of a pre-emptor in the land mentioned in the
declaration.
3. The land mentioned in the declaration was not subject to
entry, under the act of 19th June, 1834.
I. 'A decree to quiet dgfendants' possession, is not one that the
Court ought to have made. It is given as a mere interlocutory
proceeding, while a suit to try the right of possession is pending,
(2 Story's Equity, 161;) but, in this case, it is a final decree, barring the plaintiff' right. York v. Pilkington, "1Atkyns, 284.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

413

IThe United States v. Fitzgerald.]

East India Company v. Sandys, 1 Vernon, 129, and note. Anonymous, 2 Vesey, Sen. 414. Belknap v. Belknap, 2 John. C. C. 472.
Nor was such a decree asked for by the defendants. The United
States claimed the land; the defendants were in possession; the
United States were to establish their title; if good, to get possession; if bad, to be. refused it, and dismissed. What necessity
was there for the Court to give any other'judgment? It was
totally uncalled for; and, if given in accordance with any peculiar practice of Louisiana, let that be shown. Such would not
seem to be the case, judging from the decision of the Supreme
Court of that state, in the case of Cullivec v. Garick, 11 Louis.
Rep. 89. Unless sustained by such local practice, the precedent
is a dangerous one. In ejectment, the plaintiff relies on his own
title. He is prepared only to examine and present that.. If he
fails to make it good, his suit is lost. If the Court, passing beyond this, decides upon the defendants' title, they decide a point
not necessarily before them, and which the plaintiff.was not
warned would be presented, or prepared to meet.
If, however, the defendants' title was properly before the
Court, on what ground could it adjudge that they were entitled
to possession? Under what right were they? It is admitted
that they bad no legal title; that remained in the United States.
At the most, they could have had nothing more'than an equitable
claim to a title; and they had not, in fact, even that. If they
had a Register's certificate in due form, it gave them no title; it
proved merely a few facts, necessay, indeed, to their procuring.
a title, but by no means sufficient or conclusive. But, by this
judgment, they obtain, on such a ground, anabsolute and complete title. They have a decree of a Court, awarding to them a
possession that nothing is to disturb. This, too, they obtain
against those who have, and never have parted with, the actual
fee. A patent could give them no more. This decree, therefore, to" quiet the defendants' possession," is a title equivalent
to a patent, against the owner who'still holds the patent; for the
United States, never having issued it, are as fully the holders of
it as their grantees could be. Now when has it been heard that
a Register's certificate is to prevail against a patent? The acts:
of Congress, from the beginning of the government, recognise a
patent as the complete evidence of title to the Public domain;
2M2

414

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Fitzgerald.]

and nothing else. 1 Story's Laws, 424. 787. 818. 2 Story's
Laws, 896. 1022. 1067. 1201. 1239. 1417. The holder of an un-

patented location Cannot dispossess him who holds under a patent;
much less can he dispossess the United States, who have never
issued a patent. Terret v. Taylor, 9 Cxanch, 43. Polk v. Wendell,
9 Cranch, 87. Russell v. Transylvania University, 1 Wheaton,
432. M'Clung v. Silliman, 6 Wheaton; 605. Ross v. Doe, 1 Pe-

ters, 664. Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Peters, 450. Jackson v. Wilcox, 13 Peters, 517.. Ritchie v. Woods, 1 Wash. C. G. R. ii.
Depassau v. Winteri, 7 Louis. R. 6. Boatnqr v. Ventris, 8 New
Series, 653. It was never the intention of the law, from which
alone these certificates gain any force, that they should take the
place. of patehts. , They are inferior*evidence. They establish
certain facts; they de not confer title. Could the District Judge
change their character? Could he make them what the law
never ir.ended them to be? He should have dismissed the
plaintiffs' application, if he deemed the evidence insufficient to
sustain it; but he had no right to, decree the sufficiency of the
defendant's title. In this there was error.
II. The defendant, Fitzgerald, could not, at the time the suit
was brought, establish any possessory title under the pre.emption
law of 1834. He had neither done what was necessary to entitle him to its privileges, nor had he, in fact, received from any
autlorized officer, any legal recognition to that effect. He was
not a settler; he had made no improvement or cultivation; he
had offered no proof satisfactory to the Register and Receiver, he
had made no entry; and he had received no certificate. A settler is a person who takes possession, for the purposes of cultivation; who personally occupies the land, and makes it his home,
not occupying it for a cause merely temporary; he must use it
for farming purposes. In the case of Henderson v. Poindexter.
12 Wheaton, 530, this Court considered settlement as meaning
an actual bona fide residence. Now the evidence in this case
shows that the settlement of Fitzgerald bore no resemblance,
whatever, to such occupation. Even if he cultivated this remote,
inhospitable strip of land, jutting into the ocean, it was done with
no such intention on his part. He went there from necessity, as
a public officer, for a public purpose. Hfdid not go even voluntarily; he was sent there. Can a public officer, sent for a

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

415

[The United StatW . Fitzgerald.)

public object, on to a part of the public domain, be considered as
a settler? Could a body of troops, stationed through the winter
on public land near the frontiers, acquire the pre-emption rights
of settlers? Do the commanders of temporary posts acquire all
those rights? Fitzgerald admits that he went tb this place as
the boarding officer; that he took possession as such; that he
occupied the cabin as such. The Collectoi proves that, in such
capacity, he allowed such occupation. If this gives a pre-emption
right, there is no occupation of public soil, for public purposes,
by an officer sent upon them, that will not give it.
Nor did Fitzgerald make any improvement. The house was
there when he was sent to the station; and it is evident that, so
far fromseeking to improve it, he used it merely as a temporary
residence, in the intervals of his duty as the boarding officer.
But it is not sufficient that these things were done, had that
been the case. They must have been proved, within the time
limite& by law, "to the satisfaction of the Register and Receiver,"
agreeably to the established rules. Now of this having been
done, there is not the slightest evidence. The signature of the
*Register does not appear to a single paper to that effect; that of
the Receiver is not affixed to any other document than a mere
r~ceipt for money paid. Surely the e'amination by these officers,
of the facts on which so great a privilege rests, as,that which the
law accords to pre-emptors, is not to- be thus lightly dispensed
with. 2 Birchard's Land Laws, 589. Nor does this defect stop
here. So far as the record enables us to discover, Fitzgerald
never made any entry at all. There is evidence of an application to enter; but there the record stops. There is no certificate
of its having been made or allowed. .The document, which, in
the case of Jackson v. Wilcox, 13 Peters, 505, showed so fully
a compliance with all the necessary forms, is~here totally want-'
ing.
It is unnecessary to comment upon another fact connected
with this pre-emption'claim: that is, the right to a float derived*
from an alleged separate settlement by Fitzgerald's own wife;
because the present decree of the Court does not extend to the
entry under that claim.
III. But suppose that the defendant's right to a pre'-emption,
was not affected, for any of the reasons stated; could it be

416

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Fitzgerald.]

located on this tract of land? The terms of the law are very
broad; they positively exclude, from .any such location, all land
reserved for the use of the United States; or reserved from sale
by any act of Congress; or appropriated for any public purpose.
4 Story's Laws, 2213. Now what appropriation for a public
purpose can be more complete than this very act of Fitzgerald's. He is sent tq the land by the Collector, for a public
purpose; necessarily occupies it for that purpose. Is not this
an appropriation? In fact, the whole evidence shows that
for years and years before it had been so used ; so appropriated: "The testimony of the Collector at New Orleans is positive upon this point. The language of this Court, in the case
-of Jackson v. Wilcox, 13 Peters, 511, 512, shows that, wherever
there is a real and permanent use of a part of the public domain
for a public purpose, it is such an appropriation of it as the law
iintended. It is quite apparent, from the words of the act, that'
they were inserted for the express purpose of protecting from
pre-emption settlements, such spots on the public domain as the
public convenience had made it necessary from time to time to
use; and which, as all the land belonged to the United States,
*operated injuriously to no one. The act reserved from pre-emption, in express terms, every tract that had been set apart for tie
use of the United States, either by the President, (of course embracing the acts of the executive departments, under his actual
or implied direction,) or by act of Congress. It then proceeded
to reserve an additional class, that is, such spots as were thei actually appropriated, or used for a public 'purpose. -Of course,
the positive treservation by the executive, or by law, was not
necessary in the latter class of cases. This was meant to refer to
cases of actual appropriation; not arising from definite and specific
acts, as distinguished fromreservations made by the former.
But, in fact, there does appear to have been an express resei
vation of this piece of ground, by the Secretary of the Treasury.
As soon as information reached the GeneralLand Office, of Fitzgerald's application, the Register was informed that "1the Secretary of the Treasury had directed that .ract of land to- be"
reserved from sale, as it was important for the use of the custom
house, at New Orleans." This language has evident reference,
not to a reservation then first made, but to one that had been
-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

417

[The United States v. Fitzgerald.]

previously made, for a well ascertained object, of which the importance was fully recognised and already known. The lighthouse, too,. though on an island separated by a narrow channel
from the particular spot where the cabi occupied by Fitzgerald
stood, was, in fact, to be regarded as a part of the same premises.
It was all a piece of land embracing a few acres in a narrow
circuit, stretihing .into the ocean, where alone these public objects connected with commerce could be attained. These acts,
if not reservations within the express terms of the act of Congress, are yet clearly such as are held to be sufficient; under
the opinion of this Court, in the case of Jackson v. Wilcox,
13 Peters, 498.
On the whole, therefore, it is submitted that *the Court below,
erred, in giving, by its decree, an absolute title to the defendant,
instead of merely dismissing the plaintiff's bill; and that, on the
merits, the defendants had shown neither a sufficient title under
the pre-emption law, nor a right to locate it upon the land'they
*claimed.
Mr. Bell, for the defendants in error, contended that the land
in controversy was, in 1833, part of the public land of the United
States, and was subject to entry and sale, under pre-emption
rights. When John Fitzgerald went to the land, and took possession of the building upon it, he did so for his own personal
accommodation, and not for the use of the United States; 'while
it was certainly the province, in all justice, of the government,
to provide a residence for the boarding officeri at a place most
convenient for the performance of his -duty; yet, having failed
to do so, it became necessary for him to procure one for himself.
In this he did not act for the government; lie had no authority
to act for them; and all he did, was at his own private cost, and
enured to his owvn peisonal b.enefit.
May not a public officer purchase public lands for his individual account? Ma'he n6t cultivate and in prove, public land,
and entitle himself to the priVileg4s aid rights of a pre-emptor ?
The questions can receivd-but one answer: although an officer
in the service of the United States, no exclusion from such rights
exists by law. He enjoys them in c6mmon with every citizen
of the United States.

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Fitzgerald.]

In fact, no appropriation of this land for public puiposes, has
ever been made. Although the directions of the Secretary of
the Treasury to reserve this land from sale, were given after the
defendants in error had acquired a full title to the land; yet,
if they had not acquired such title, the public lands cannot be
appropriated to the use of the United States, by any act of the
Secretary of the Treasury, unless specially thereto authorized
by law.
The public lands are, by the Constitution, placed in the hands
of Congress; and an act of Congress is required to authorize
any and every severance of any part of them from the great
body of the public domain, for the special use of the government, While the President of the United States is authorized,
in particular cases, to appropriate porti6ns of the land, for the
purpose and use of the government, no such right or privilege is
given to the head of the Treasury Department.
Mr. Justice M'KINLEY delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a petitory action brought by the plaintiffs, in the Circuit C6urt of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, to recover one hundred and sixty acres of land, claimed
by the defendants under the pre-emption law of the 19th of
June, 1834. In their petition the plaintiffs allege, that the
defendants, under the pretence that they were entitled to section
number 8, containing one hundred and sixty acres in township 24 of range 30, by right of pre-emption, on the 18th day
of June, 1836, entered it with the Register of the Land Office
-at New Orleans; that the defendant, John Fitzgerald, took
possession of the land as an officer of the customs, by direction
of the Collector at New Orleans, and not as a settler; and that the
land had, long previous to the entry, been appropriated for public
purposes, and attached to the custom house at New Orleans.
The defendants admit in their answer, that John Fitzgerald
was an officer of the cust9ms, and discharged the duties of
boarding officer at the south-west pass, where, finding no accommodations or dwelling provided for them by the United
States, they were under the necessity of proquring one for themselves, in which they expended their own money. That having
complied with all the requisitions of the laws of the United'

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

419

[The United States v. Fitzgerald.]
States granting pre-emption rights, they entered the said tract of
land; and insist that, by the laws of the United States, they are
entitled to it.
It was proved on the trial that the defendant, John Fitzgerald,
had been appointed, by the Secretary of the Treasury, Inspector
of Customs for the District of Mississippi; and, by the Collector
at New Orleans, he had been appointed boarding officer, at
south-west pass, on the Mississippi river, and put into possession of the tract of land in controversy, which had been occupied by former boarding officers. The Collector was not instructed, by the Treasury Department, to place the boarding
officer on that tract of land, nor was he bound to reside there;
but might reside at any other place, convenient for the discharge
of his duties. The Collector had never requested that this land
should be reserved for the use of the boarding officer. A letter
frqm the acting-Commissioner of the General Land Office, dated
the 3d of November, 1836, directed t9 the Register of the Land
Office, at New Orleans, stating that the 'Secretary of the Treasury had directed that this tract of land should be reserved from
sale, for the use of the custom' house at New Orleans, and requesting the Register to note upon his plats that it was so
reserved from sale, and to give notice of the fact to the defend-ants, was also read as evidence.
The defendants proved that they had Made proof of their possession and cultivation of the tract of land in controversy before
the Register and Receiver, according to-law, and had entered it
with the Register and paid the purchase money. Whereupon
the Court below, according to the usual. form of rendering judgment in such cases in.Louisiana, decreed that the defendants be
quieted in their, possession of the premises in dispute, and that
the plaintiffs take nothing by their petitibn.
To reverse this judgment, the United States have prosecuted
this writ of errol. Two objections have been taken to the
judgment.
1. The defendant, John Fitzgerald, being in the service of the
United States while residing on the public land, could not by
cultivation and possession acquire a right of pre-emption; and
if he could, this land was not subject to pre-emption, it having
been appropriated to public use.

420

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States i. Fitzgerald.]

2. The Court had no power to quiet the defendants in their
possession of the premises in dispute, the fee in the land being
in the United States.
No law has been produced to show that an officer of the
United States is. deprived of the benefit of the pre-emption laws;
nor do we know of any law which deprivbs him of the right to
acquire a portion of the public land, by any mode of purchase
common to other citizens. , Had this tract of land been severed
from the public domain by a legal appropriation of it, for any
public purpose, Fitzgerald could have acquired no right to it
by cultivation and possession; not because he was an officer of
the United States, but because the land would not have been
subject to the pre-emption law.
Was this land so appropriated? The pre-emption law of the
19th of May, 1830, which was revived by the act of the t9th
of June, 1834, declares that- the right of pre-emption sha'1i not
extend to any land which is reserved from sale by act of Congress, or by order of the President, or which may have been
appropriated for any purpose whatever. 4 Story's Laws United
States, 2213. The first section of the act of the 19th of June,
1834, gives to every settler or occupant of the public lands,
prior to the passage of that act, who was 'then in possession
and cultivated any part thereof in the year 1833, all the benefits
and privileges provided by the act, entitled an act to grant
pre-emption rights to settlers on the public lands, approved the
29th of May, 1830, and which act was thereby revived. The
reservation and appropriation mentioned in the act of the 29th of
May, 1830, must have been valid and subsisting at the date of
the act of the 19th of June, 1834, to deprive the defendants of
their right of pre-emption.
It cannot be pretended that the land in controversy was
reserved from sale by any act of Congress, or by order of the
-President, unless the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury
to reserve it from sale, several months after it had been actually
sold and paid for, could amount to such an order. As no reservation or appropriation of the land made after the right of the defendants accrued under the act of the 19th of June, 1834, could
defeat that right,.it is useless to inquire into the authority by which
the Secretary of the Treasury attempted to make the reservation.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

421

[The United States v. Fitzgerald.]

The remaining question, under the first objection is, whether
there bad been any appropriation of this .land for any purpose
whatever, prior to the passage of the act, of the 19th of June,
1834. No appropriation of public land can be made for any'
purpose, but by authority of Congress. By the third section
of the fourth article of the Constitution of the United States,
power is given to Congress to dispose of and make. all needful
rules and regulations respecting the'territory, or other property
belonging to the United States. As no such authority has
been shown to authorize the collector at New Orleans to appropriate this land to any use whatever, it is wholly useless to
inquire whether his acts, if they had been authorized by law,
would have amounted to an appropriation.
But it has been contended, in argument, that the act of the
3d of March, 1831, authorizing the erection of a lighthouse
at the mouth of the south-west pass, was an appropriation
of this land for that purpose. By the plat, found in the record,
it appears that there are between forty and fifty tracts of landi
containing one hundred' and sixty acres each, including the
tract in controversv, all fronting on the south-west pass. If
the act had directed that the lighthouse should be built on
this particular tract,. according to the decision of this Court
in the case of Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 498, it would
have been such an appropriation within the 'meaning of the
act of the 29th of May, 1830, as would have deprived the
defendants of their right of pre-emption. But the same plat
shows that the lighthouse was built on Wagoner's Island,
which appears to be at the mouth of the south-west pass, and
not included or connected with this or either of the other tracts
of land exhibited on the plat. From this examination of the
case, it is clear that the land in controversy was neither'
reserved from sale nor appropriated to any purpose whatever.
As the United States-have placed their right to recover in
this case upon the single ground that the land was not subject
to the pre-emption right of the defendants, because it had
been previously appropriated for the use of the officers attached
to the custom house at New Or]eans, that point being decided against them, they ought not to prevail upon' the secofild
.objection urged against the judgment; even if the judgment
VOL. XV.-2 N

422

StJPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Fitzgerald.]

were technically defective; but it being in the usual form of
judgments, in the Courts of Louisiana, and not inconsistent
with the justice of the case, we 'think it ought not to be
disturbed;
It has, however, been suggested that fraud has been practised,
ia some way, by the defendants, in obtaining the land in controversy. Every thing on the face of the record appears to have
been perfectly fair; and, as far as we can perceive, the defendants
are legally entitled to a patent- for the.land. But if fraud has
been practised upon the plaintiffs, the Court of Chancery are
open to them to seek a recision of the contract.
The judgment' of the Court below is affirmed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the Urlited States for the Eastern District of Louisiana; and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this Court,
that the judgient of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed.

