JANUA'RY TERM, 1841.

BUYcx, DECEASED, AND
Buycx, APPELLANTS, v. T"

ANN BuYcK, WIDOW OP DON AUGUSTIN
THE UNKNOWN

HEIRS OF SAID

UNITED STATES, APPELLEES.
The decree of the Superior Court of East Florida, by which a grant for fifty thousand
acres of land, made by Governor White, the Spanish governor of East Florida,
dated July 29, 1802, was rejected, affirmed.
The land had been granted by Governor White, on a petition from the grantee, stating
his intention to occupy and improve the same with Bozale negroes, and native
citizens of the United States; and stating that other grants of the same lands hadbeen made, on condition of settlement, which conditionshad not been performed, and
such grants were therefore void. The petitioner promised to make the settlement
within snearly period after the grant. The Governor granted the land, referring to
the petition ; also, with the condition, that the grantee should not cede any part of
the land, without the consent of the government. No improvetnent or settlement
was at any time made on the land by the grantee. Held, that, the government of
the United States were not brund, under the Florida treaty, to confirm the grant.
The desbripion of the portion of land asked for from the Spanish Governor, "lands.
at Musquito, fifty thousand acres, south and north of said place," is not sufficiently
definite; and from such a description, no exception could be made from the public
lands acquired by the United States under the Florida treaty. The regulations for
granting lands in Florida, by the Spanish authorities, required that grants should be
made in a certain place; and iltere were no floating rights of survey out bf the place
designated in the grant; unless wihere the -land granted could not be got there in its
exact quantity, and an equivalent was provided for.
The laws and ordinances of the government of Spain, in relation to grants of lands by
the Spanish government, must be of universal application in the construction of
grants. It is essential to the validity of such grants, that the land granted shall be
described, so as to be capable of being* distinguished from other things of the same
kind, or capable of being ascertained by extraneous testimony.
The cases of Sibbald, 12 Peters, 313. 348. 'Arredondo, 6 Peters, 133. Fleming,
478. Huertas, 488. Arredondo, 13 Peters, 133, cited.

APPEAL from the Shperior Court of East Florida.
On the 23d of May, 1829, Ann Buyck, the appellant, presented
a petition to the Superior Court for.the Eastern District of Florida,
claiming title to a tract of land containing fifty thousand acres,
south and north of the Musquito river.
The title -on which the claim -was founded, was a Spanish

218

SUPREME COURT.
[Bayck et aL e. The United State&]

grant from Governor White. The' proceedings on which the
grant was made, and the grant,,were as follow:
His EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR:
,Don Augustin Buyck, a resident of this place, with the greatest
respect, appears before your exqellency, and says:
That, having a large number of new negroeg, (negroes bozales,)
and there being also some -white persons, native citizens of-the
United States of America, who wish to join him for" the settlement and cultivation of the lands at Musquito, he solicits that
this government will grant him fifty thousand acres of land,
south and north of said place, with the privilege of, and asking
for more in proper time, as he may need it; within which lands
itis not the intention of your petitioner, that the tract which
your excellency granted to Don Ambrosio Hull should be embraced; who, at this time, has abandoned the possession of his
settlem'ent, owing to Indian hostilities, but Who is determined to
return to said settlement, in consequence of the protection that
a large number of settlers in that neighbourhood may afrord:
and that the right to the grant I pray for shall not be interrupted
by the right that some individuals of this place, or foreigners
may have, or pretend to have, to whom part of said lands may
have been granted by order of your excelleiicy; and because the
first.of these persons have suffered a long time to elapse without
taking any steps for the pretended cultivation of said land, which
makes it appear that their. right has, in some degr6e, become
diminished, and there being others who offer to cultivate said
land, in accordance *iththe wishes of tie king,'who is desirous
of having the whole province settled; and as regards the latter,
the same reasons apply-in consequence of their not having complied with what they promised. Your petitioner promises, positively, to 'iarry into effect said 'settlemeilt, between the period embraced from ihis time and the month of December next; after
which period it will remain discretionary with your excellency
'to grant the said tract to any other person who may ask for it.
The considerable number of settlers whom your petitioner offers
to carry to that point, will open d vast field towards fulfilling
his majesty's will, and td refrain the savages from committing
robberies and hostilities, who have by their incursions, until now,

-

'JANUARY TERM, 1841.

217

v. The United Statem]
[Buyck et al.

troubled the plantations situated north of the capital; and your
petitioner, not doubting that such considerations will have their
due weight on your excellency's mind, who is always disposed
to db what seems best for the service of the king and of the
country, your petitioner respectfully reiterates his prayer for .this
favour from the accustomed bounty.of your excellency.
A. Buyrr.
(Signed)
St. .ugustine of Florida,22d July, 1802.
ORDR YOR REPORT.
St. .ugustine, July 22d, 1802, Let ihe engineer comniandant
report.
WRITE.
(Signed)
REPORT OF ENGINEER.

Being informed of the premises, and in compliance with the
foregoing decree, I report to your excellency, that the settlement
and cultivation of the lands at Musquito, presents no obstacle
'either to the general or particular defence of the province, and
so far as this department is concerned, there may be granted to
the petftioner, for the purposes he mentions, the number of acres
which your excellency may deem proper. This is all which I
have to report to your excellency, who will 'ct in the matter at
your pleasdire.
NICHOLAS BARCELO.
(Signed)
GRANT TO BUYCK.

St. dugzstine, 29th Jutly- 1802.
Tieland which the party solicits is granted to him, in manner
as he proposes; and with the condition that he shall not cede any
part thereof to any person whatever, without the knowledge
and approbation of the governindnt.
WHITE.
(Signed)
A certificate was issued.
VOL. XV.-T

(Signed)
28

PIERAA.

SUPREME COURT.
[Buyek et al v. The United Statem]

I certify that the foregoing is a correct translation of the
annexed document, written in the Spanish language.
"OHN,M. FONTANX,

Transidtoraid Interpreter S. C. D. B. F.
St. diugustine, July 16th, 1838.
The decree of the Superior Court of Florida was against
the claim of. the petitioner, and this appeal was prosecuted

by him.
The case was argued by Mr. Downing, for the appellant; and
by Mr. Gilpin, Attorney General, for the United States.
Mr. Downing contended:
1. That the grant was made without conditions precedent,
and vested a title in the grantee.
2. The grantee never sold any portion of the land; and the
title of the appellant is complete.
Mr. Gilpin, Attorney General, for the United States.
The principles involved in this case, are essentially the same
as those discussea in that of The United States v. The Heirs of
Forbes. The evidence of the alleged grant is insufficient; the
locality of the tract is not ascertained, either by the terms of the
concession itself, or by a subsequent survey; and the conditions,
express and implied, have not been performed.
1. The evidence of the grant consists of a copy of the memo
rial and concession thereto annexed, which copy is certified by a
person named Pierra, in the following words: "a certificate
issued." This is clearly -not within the rule laid down by lhis
Court,-in the case of The United States v. Wiggins, 14 Peters,
348.. Not only is there no evidence, even indirect, of the existence of the original concessionj or of its being deposited in the
-archives, or df the truth of the copy: but the presumptive evidence is certainly strongly against its genuineness. There is no
petition, order, or certificate of survey- produced, or even alleged
to have been- issued. There is no corroborative evidence to
supply this deficiency, or adequate to sustain the alleged grant.
The only evidence of this sort, is a translation of an alleged as-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

219

[Buyck et al. v. The United Staten]

sessment of thirty dollars, made by Governor White, in 1802, just
after the date of the alleged grant, on 4 Don Augustin Buyck,
for hinigelf, and his settlers on the fifty thousand acres, of land
south ;" and an alleged receipt, dated about a year after, of Bernardo Segui, to the attorney of Buyek, for the thirty dollars.
From that time to 1823, there is no evidence, even of a claim to
any land, founded on-such a grant. These papers were objected
to in the Court- below, land were supported by no proof whatever of the existence of the originals, the signatures of the Governor, or Segui, or-the correctness of the copy; but had they
been duly authenticated in these respects, it is yet clear that they
are not such corroborative evidence of the giant, as will be required; there is.no ground but mere conjecture, to suppose they'
referred to the lands said to have been granted. Add to this,
'the well known fact, that Governor White was remarkable for
hin uniform refusal to make large grants, on slight causes; and it
must be admitted.that no copy of a concession -has ever been
adduced, which is less entitled to credit in the absence of the
original.
2, But if granted, the tract never was, and never can be located according to the grant; "the description in the petition,"
to use the words of this Court, iii the case of The United States
v. Arredondo, 13 Peters, 133, "of the locality of the concession,
is too indefinite to enable a survey to be made," and the claimant therefore can " take nothing under the concession." The concession is of fifty thousand acres, "south and north of lands at
Musquito ;" there is no authority, as in the case of The United
States v. Sibbald, 10 Peters, 321, to make the location at any
other place; the inlets or interior bays which open into the coast
of Florida, at Musquito, extend for more. than fifty miles y ho'm
is it possible to locate a tract by means of a description so indefinite ?
3. If there is proof of the .grant, and if-a sufficient location
was made; have the prescribed conditions been complied with,
so as to vesta valid title in the claimant? The alleged concession bears date- in 1802, nineteen years before the surrender of
Florida to the United States. The petitioner does not assert the
performance of any services; the grant is not given to him as a
reward. He "promises positively to carry into effect his settle-

220

SUPREME COURT.
(Buyck et al. v. The United Statm]

ment, between the period embraced from the date of the grant
and the month of December following ;" he engages " to restrain
the savages from committing robberies and hostilities, who had
by their incursions troubled the plantations ;" and he says that
he has "a large number of new negroes, and that there are some
white persons, native citizens of the United States, who wish to
join him in the settlement" he proposed. These are substantial
inducements; a large force capable of cultivating.,the land, and
affording protection to the neighbourhood, to be placed upon the
tract, within six months. A grant founded on such inducements,
and subject to their fulfilment, was altogether in accordance with
the regulations of the Spanish land law, as it existed ifn Florida.
2 White's New Rec. 288. If they were not fulfilled,'neither by
the ihtention of the parties, nor by the Spanish law, lid any
title accrue to the grantee ; the tract in question was never separated from the' royal domain. In the petition, the claimant
himself said, that if the settlement was not carried into effect
within the period promised, it would remain discretionary with
the Governor to "grant the said tradt to any other person, who
might ask for it." " Those who having obtained a. concession
of lands, have not' cultivated them from the time they were
granted," says Saavedra, confirmed, by Governor Coppinger,
"can have no right to them;" and he afterwards adds, that
"1the certificates (issued by the secretary of the government)
are of no value nor effect, unless the prescribed conditions have
been complied with; otherwise, such papers deserve no regard,
nor can the grantees, by means of 'them, claim any right to
the lands granted, which should now be considered vacant."
2 White's New Rec. 283. The alleged concession in this-case is
a certificate of the kind thus referred to.
Mr. Justice WAYE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appeal from the Superior Court of East Florida.
The land in contr6versy ii this case is claimed by virtue of
an alleged concession or grant, for ffty thousand acres, dated
July 29th, 1802.
In the Court below, the claim was adjudged not to be valid.
The evidence offered and read on the trial is,
1. A memoriai irom Don Augustin Buyek, 22d July, 1802,

JANUARY TERM,- 1$41.

Ag1

tBuyck et aLv. The United tate&J

with an order annexed by Governor White to the engineer
commandant, to report; and the report of the engineer.
.. The'decree of Governor White as follows: The land which
the party solicits is granted to him in manner as he proposes;
and with the condition that he shall not cede any part thereof,
to any person whatever, without the knowledge and approbation of the government.
3. An assessment, by order of Governor White, dated 30th
October, 1802, upon Buyck, and others, for building a bridge.
The assessment upon Bt.yck being thirty dollars, " for hifnself
and his settlers of the fifty thousand acres of land, south ;;. at-:
tached to which. is the return of one Bernardo Segui, of the
names of the persons assessed; such of them as had paid, others'
who had rot, with Segui's receipt, dated a year after, for thirty
dollars, paid by one Robira, as attorney for Buyck, said to be
"his proportion of the: tax,". in consequence of a grant of fifty
thousand acres of land, and others which he possesses in this
province.
The paper purporting to be a grant was received in evidence,
without any certificate, that it was the copy of a grant, from an
original in the office in which grantb are requiied to be deposited; without proof of the handwriting of the Governor, or of
Pierra, who says a certificate was issued; indeed without any
official attestation of authenticity, or proof of any kind that such
a paper was' ever issued, or on file in th. proper office. The
same may be said of the other pdpers. One Fontane certifies
that he has translated them correctly from Spanish originals.
That is all that is said of them. No proof is given that the oiginals were to be found in the "office of the archives." It is
not alleged that they were lost or destroyed, by any mutilation
of the records or other accident. The other proof relied upon to
sustain the claim, is Segui's receipt, and the papers in connexion
with it, already mentioned. Where that paper came from, the
record does not show. The authenticity of the Go4ernor's order,
assessing the tax; the signature of the person, signing .him~elf
government notary; the appointment of Segiii to collect the tax;
all rest upon the receipt of Segui for Buyek's aqsessment, and"
upon the paper purporting to be a report to thp Governor of those
who had not paid, and of the sum of money which he had in
T2

922

SUPREME COURT.
[Buyck et al. v. The United States.]

hand from those who had paid assessments. We do not intend,
however, as the attorney for'the United States, in the Court below, did not object to the memorial and grant as evidence, though
he. did so as to the papers connected with the assessments; to
allow, any formal objection to the proof of a grant to weigh with
us in this decision; the opinion of the Court rests upon grounds
connected with the merits.
The memorialist asks for the land, first stating that he has a
large number of ne negroes, and that some white persons, native citizens of the ;nited States of America, wish fo join him
in the settlement and cultivation of the lands "at Musquito."
He-prays that his right to the grant may not be denied by the
right which others may claim, or pretend to have, on account
of former grants to them; because they had suffered a long time
to pass without taking any steps to cultivate the lands, and as
others are ready to cultivate them; and he promises to carry,
into effect his settlement by the month of December after the
date of his memorial, after whish time, if he 'does not do so,.he
says it will remain discretionary with the Governor to grant the
land to any other person who may ask for it. The Governor
replies, the land which the party solicits is granted to .him in
manner as he proposes, and restrains his alienation of it, withofit
the consent of government. The undertakings of the memoriallst'were voluntary, and-were the inducement held out by him
to obtain the grant. None of them were complied with. The forfeiture then of the land results from the conditions not having been
performed, which the memorialist himself proposed as the terms
upon which he was to hold it, and which were recognised by
the Governor as the terms upon which he should have what he
asked "for. The memorial, report of the engineer, and decree,
are all parts of the same instrument, each having a distinct reference to the other. If, therefore, for the purpose of determining the quanfity of the land intended to be granted, and where
it was g.ranted, we must go out of 'the decree into the memorial,
we must do the like to ascertain the conditions annexed to the
grant. Besides, the forfeiture is only in accordance with whatthe memori4list states had been incuTred by others, to whom
grants had been made, who had neglected to settle them, and
whfch he says will be his own case, if he does not make his set-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

228

[Buyck et aL v. The United States.]
tlement within the time stated in his petition. In this view of
the case, then, the grant is without merits; and the judgment of
the Court below should be affirmed.
But further, supposing proof of the grant to be mede, and that
it was free from the conditions, which, not having been complied
with, has forfeited it; still it could convey no land, from the
want of identity or ascertainable locality.
The memorialist says, wishing to make the settlement and cultivation of the linds at Musquito, he solicits a grant of fifty
thousand acres, south and north of said place.
Musquito is an inlet on the eastern coast of the peninsula
made by Halifax river, or lagoon, which extends from Musquito bar, northward more than twenty miles, and by the southern, or what is known as Hillsborough lagoon,.which extends
from Cape Caraverel to Musquito inlet, a distance of forty miles.
Both lagoons are navigable for about the same distafnce by vessels of such draught as can cross the bar. Creeks run into the first
from the mainland, and Smyrna is on the western bank of the
south lagoon, four or five miles from Musquito bar. Where then
shall the land claimed by the appellant be surveyed? Shall it
border on the ocean, north and south of the inlet, twenty-five
thousand acres on either side to make up the quantity; or on the
inner shore of the lagoon in the same way; or shall it be on the
mainland, west of the inlet; or on some of the creeks emptying
into Halifax river. The description of the*grant is, "south and
north" of the lands'"at Musquito."' Musquito is-not a designation of a land district fixed and known by the Spanish authorities; nor do we kno~W from any usage the limits of the lands at
Musquito. If it be the application of the name of an inlet to
lands without and within it; still,how shall boundaries be fixed,
within which surveys shall be made, without other specific call
than "north 4nd sbuth of lands at Musquito?" The regulations
for geanting lands in Florida, by the Spanish authorities, required
that grants should be made ina certain place, and there were no
floating rights of survey out of the place designated in the grant
unless the land granted could not be got there in its entire quantity, and an equivalent was provided for; as in Sibbald's case-,*
reported in 10 and il-Peters, 313. 488 ; one of the surveys of
which wai at Tu'nbull's swamp, at Musquito.

04

SUPREME COURT.,
,Luyck et a]. v. The United Statea]

In.all of the decisions of this Court tvpon grants in Florida, it
has gone as far !ts the most liberal equity can go, in adopting
some natural, or a 'tificial point, in the description of the grants,
however subordir ate or minor they n:ay have been, to giv6
locality to grants. Such was the fact in the leading case upon
-Florida-grants. Atredondo, 6 Peters, 133. So. in Percheman's
case, 7 Peters, 91. Also in the cases of Fleming and Huertas,
8 Peters,478,488. Arredondo's case, in 13 Peters, 133, was upon
most indefinite calls. No survey had been made whilst Florida
was a province of- Spaii, nor had the grant been surveyed when
the case was brought by appeal to this Court. The Court said,
"we do not consider the want of a survey, as interfering with
the right of the party to the land granted; it must be taken near
as may be, as it is described in the petition, where it was asked for,
and cannot be taken elsewhere." The Court then declares, if the
pointb indicated in that case for a survey cannot be found, then,
that the description was too indefinite for a survey to be made;
and that the claimants could take nothing under the concession.
And so in this case, the description "south and north of the
lands at Musquito" ig too indefinite for a survey to be made; for"
there is nothing in it, which can be aided by relation to something certain. The claimants, then, can take nothing under the
concession.
We kno-w from the eighth regulation of Governor White,
October 12th, 1803, White's New Rec. 278, that this waut of
certainty in the description of grants, had been productive of
disputes and mistakes. When he declared, that those, for
the future, who ask for lands, must indicate a fixed spot; he
only re:-enorced.a neglected law in Florida; Indeed, with a few
exceptions, grants in Florida, which have been before this Court,
have been particular, in respect to the object from which the
survey was to be. made.
It is proper for us to remark, that in coming to our conclusion upon this *point,we have not been influenced by any of
the English common law rules, -which make grants void for
uncertainty. Such as, for instance, if the. king grants land in"
a peat waste, without ascertaining what part, or the special
name of the land, or how bounded, it is void for uncekainty;
for there can be no election in that. case. Bacon, -voL iv. tit.

JANUARY TERM; -1841.
tBuyck et a. v.The UnIted State&]

Grant, 81; and yet, if an individual so grant, it would be good.
We apply to the case, 'the laws, and ordinances of the government under which the claim originated; and that rule which
must be of universal application in the construction of grants;which is essential to their validity, that the thing granted should
be so described as to be capable of being distinguished from
other things of the same kind, or be capable of being ascertained
by extraneous testimony.
The decree of the Court below is.affirmed.

.29

