JANUARY TERM, 1841.

EDmuND P. GxINES, AND MIRA CLARKE, LATE WHITNEY, COMPLAINANTS, VS. RICHAHD RELF, BEVERLY CHEWAND OTHERS,
DEFENDANTS.
In the case of Livingston v. Story, which came before this Court, in 1835, (9 Peters,
655,) the Court took occasion to examine the various laws of the United States, establishing and organizing the District Court of Louisiana, and to decide whethei
that Court had equity powers; and if so, what shoul be the mode of proceeding in
the exercise of such powers. The various cases which had been before the Court, involving, substantially, the same question in relation to the states where there were
no .equity State Courts, or laws regulating the practice in equity causes, were referred
to; and the uniform decisions of the Court have been, that there being no equity
State Courts, did nQft"revent the exercise of equity jurisdiction in the Courts of the
United States; and it was, accordingly, decided, that the District Court of Louisiana
was bound to proceed in equity causes, according to the principles, rules, and usages
which belong to the Courts of equity, as contradistinguished from Courts of common
law.
The cases of Livingston 0i Story, 9 Peters, 655. 13 Peters, 368. Ex parte Poultney
v. The City of La Fayette, 13 Peters, 474. Ex parte Mira Clarke Whitney, 13 Peters,
494. cited; and the principles of these cases affirmed.
The Supreme Court has not the power to compel the Circuit Court to proceed accord.
ing to established rules in chancery cases. All that the Court can, do, is to prevent
proceedings otherwise, by reversing them, when broughthere on appeal.
It is a matter of extreme regret, that it appears to be the settled determination of the
District Judge of Louisiana, not to suffer chancery practice th prevail in the Circuit
Court of Louisiana in equity causes, in total disregard of the repeated decisions of
this Court, and the rules of practice established by theSupreme Court to be observed
in chancery cases.

ON a certificate of 'division from the Circuit Court .of-the
United States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
A bill of complaint was originally filed in the District Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Luuisiana; and
was afterwards transferred to the Circuit Court for the same
District.

Subpcnas were issued on the 1st of August, 1836, with a copy
of the bill, to each and all the defendants, about fifty in, number. Service of this process was made by the marshal, on
twenty-seven of the defendants, and amongst them, on Richard
Relf. W. W. Whitney, one of the plaintiffs,. having deceased,
the proceeding was continued in the name of Mira Clarke Whit-

10

SUPREME COURT.
[Gaines et al. v. Relf et al.]

ney, his widow. The bill claimed the estate left by Daniel
Clarke, at the time of his death; alleging that Mira Clarke
Whitney was his only child, and heir at law, and his devisee.
The bill charged Beverlk Chew and Richard Rblf, With having
fraudulently concealed and suppressed Daniel Clarke's true and
last will, in which the complainant, his daughter and heir at law,
was his only devisee, and was his general legatee ; with having set
up another will, in which they were named executors, and with
having taken and appropriated all the estate, real and personal, of
Daniel Clarke. The other defendants are charged with confederating with the executors; and with having obtained, and still
holding large portions of the estate, through the executors or
under them.
The bill contains an inventory of the estate of Daniel Clarke, as
far as can be made out. For these frauds and breaches of trust
the bill claims restitution, &c.
On the 20th February, 1837, (about two months after subpnnas were returned, served,) the two executors, with twenty-five
of their co-defendants, appeared by their respective solicitors, and
filed a petition: wherein, styling themselves respondents, eleven
of them say, French is their "mother tongue," (not that they do
not understand English as well ) and pray, as a precedent condition to their being held to plead, answer, or demur to the bill,
that a copy, in their "maternal language," be served on each
and every of them, severally, over and above the English copies
already served. Then, "all the aforesaid respondents, (including,
of course, the two executors,) here appearing separately by their
respective solicitors, crave oyer" of all the instruments and papers
of every sort mentioned in the bill; but, iif it be not possible for
said complainants to afford these respondents oyer of the originals of said supposed instruments, they then pray that copies of
the same, duly certified according to the laws 8f the state of
Louisiana, may, by order of this honourable Court to said complainants, be filed herein, and served on these respondents, that
they may be enabled to take proper cognisance thereof." The
respondents more especially crave oyer of twenty-three of these
instrunients, enumerated and specified in a list, referring to the
several clauses ofthe bill where they are respectively mentioned.
No answer having been put in by the twenty-fiVe respondents,

JANUARY TERM, 184A.

n

[Gaines eta!. v,.Reif et aL]

a motion was made for an attachment, which was refused by
Judge Lawrence, the District Judge, sitting as a judge of the
Circuit Court, to which the proceedings were transferred after
the establishment of a Circuit Court in the eastern district of
Louisiana.
At the same time Judge Lawrence, sitting alone in the Circuit
Court, prescribed rules of 'practice for that Court; among which
was a general one, that "the mode of proceeding in all civil cases,
those of admiralty alone excepted, shall be conformable to the
Code of Practice of Louisiana, and to the 'acts of the Legislature
of that state, heretofore passed, amendatory thereto."
The complainant applied to the Supreme Court, at January
term, 1839, for a mandamus to Judge Lawrence, in order to
compel him to proceed in the case. 13 Peters, 408.
The mandamus so applied for was denied, for reasons appearing in the Court's opinion; but the Court, at the same time,
expressly declared, though the remedy by mandamus be inadmissible, that it is the duty of the Circuit Caurt to proceed in this
suit, according to the rules prescribed by the Supreme Court, at
the February term, 1822, can admit of no doubt; and that the
proceedings of the District Judge, and the orders made byhim in
the cause, which are complained of, are not in conformity with
those rules of chancery practice, can admit of as little doubt.
13 Peters, 408.
Since then, the present complainants, (having intermarried,)
filed a petition for rehearing the before stated order, by a bill filed
in the Circuit Court on the 1st of June, 1839.,
The petition stated that the complainants were much aggrieved
by the interlocutory decree made in the case by the former
District Judge for the eastern district of Louisiana.; wherehy it
is ordered that the application of the defendants for oyer of
documents, and for copies of the bill of complaint be allowed:
and further, that all further proceedings in the case shall be in
conformity with the existing practice of the Court.
On June 1, 1839, in the Circuit Court, before the honourabie
Judges M'Kinley and Lawrence, the counsel for the complainants

moved the Court,
1st. To set aside and vacate said decretal order.
2d. To remand the said cause to the rule docket, and order

12

SUPREME COURT.
[Gines et aI.
v. Relf et al.]

that the complainants should be permitted to proceed therein
according to chancery practice. The defendants appeared by their
counsel, and resisted aid application and motion, upon the ground
that chancery practice should not be had in this Court, anid they
relied upon the treaty of cession of Louisiana to the United States,
from France, in 1803; the acts of Congress of 29th September,
1789; 26th May, 1824; the 19th May, 1828; and 20th May,
1830; and the first rule adopted by this Court,/of 20th November, 1837.
The judges of the Circuit Court having differed in opinion on
the hearing of the motion, it was ordered to be certified to the
Supreme Court for its decision upon the following questions:
1st. Does chancery practice prevail, and should it be extended
to litigants in this Court, and in this cause?
2d. Should or not the. said order of the date of 9th March,
1837, be annulled and vacated?
3d. Should or not the cause be placed upon a rule docket, and
the complainants be permitted to proceed according to chancery
practice, and the defendants be required to answer without oyer
of the documents prayed for, or a service of the bill in French,
as prayed for?
And the cause coming on to .be heard, by consent of parties,
upon the demurrer; and upon the adjudication thereof, the judges
were opposed in their opiniohis, and the foregoing questions
were ordered to be certified to the Supreme Court of the United
States for its decision and adjudication.
The case was argued by Mr. Key, and Mr. Jones, for the
plaintiffs; and by Mr. Coxe, for the defendant.
The counsel for the plaintiffs contended that the single question in the case was, whether the Circuit Court of Louisiana
has chancery jurisdiction. The argument that the case is not
one for chancery jurisdiction; does not apply. The questibn
whether the case of the complainants is, or is not one of chancery cognisance, is not before the Court on the certificate of devision.: No provision of the Code of Louisiana, gives chancery
jurisdiction to the Courts of that state. Chancery law as administered in the Courts of the United States, is d fixed code of

JANUARY TERM, 1841.
[Gaines et al. v. Relf et al.]

13

laws; and depends on established rules and decided cases. The
Courts of equity are of a peculiar form. The Code of Louisiana gives a judge in certain cases a right to proceed according to the principles of natuial justice; but this gives no chancery
powers.
They contended that the case exhibited in the complainants'
bill, was one peculiarly of chancery jurisdistion. It is a beneficial bill, and should have the protection of the Court. Cited,
Brown's Parliamentary: Cases, 550. Dickens' Reports, 26. 2
Vesey and Beame, 259. But the chancery jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court has been fully recognised in the case of Living5 Peters, 368.
ston v. Story, 9 Peters, 655. 12 Peters, 474.
404. The rules of Court regulating the practice of the Circuit
Court, show that the call for papers as made by the defendant, is
not allowed. 10 Rule of Court. 3 Dallas, 335. 339. The rules
of practice in the Civil Code of Louisiana, do not sanction such
a call for papers.
Mr. Coxe argued that the case exhibited in the bill was not
one of chancery jurisdiction; nor is a proceeding to vacate a
will, in the power of a Chancery Court. Cases cited, 13 Peters,
369. 9 Peters, 657. 12 Wheaton, 169. 175. 1 Williams on Executors, 157. Cowper's Equity Pleading, 268. 2 Story's Equity,
670. Mr. Coxe referred to the Louisiana Code, to show that the
Probate Court was the proper tribunal to set aside the will. So,
too, the code authorizes proceedings in the established Courts of
Louisiana to recover legacies.
It was ilot his intention to controvert the decisions of the
Court; but such a case as this had not yet been decided.
Mr.,justice THomPsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes up from the Circuit Court of the United
States, tor the -Eastern District of Louisiana, upon a certificate
of division of 'opinion upon the following points:
f. Does chancery practice prevail, and should it be extended
to litigants in this *Court,and in this cause ?
2. Should or not the said order of the 9th of March, 1837,
be annulled and vacated?
3. Should or not the cause be placed upon a rule docket, and
the complainants be permitted to proceed according to the chanVEL. X .- BI

SUPREME COURT.
[Gaines et al. v. Relf et al.]

cery practice; and the defendants be required to answer without
oyer of the documents prayed for, or a service of the bill in
French, as prayed for?
- This was a bill filed in the District Court of the United States,
for that district, on the 28th of July, 1836, according to the
course of practice in the Courts of the United States, upon the
equity side of the Court ; and in the course of proceeding, the
district judge, on the 9th of March, 1837, entered the following
order: "W. W. Whitney and wife vs. Richard Relf and others.
In this case having maturely considered the prayer for oyer,
and for copies of bill in French, the Court this day delivered its
written opinion thereon, whereby it is ordered, adjudged, and
decreed, that the application for oyer of documents, and for
copies of the bill of complaint, in the manner prayed for, (in
French,) be granted: and further, that all future proceedings in
this case shall be in conformity with the existing practice of this
Court."
At the June term of the Circuit Court, in the year 1839, a
motion was made to set aside and vacate that order; and that the
complainant might be permitted to proceed in the cause, according to the course of chancery practice. And upon this motion,
the division of opinion upon the points above -stated, arose.
These points present the same question that has been repeatedly before this Court, and received its most deliberate consideration and judgment, viz., whether the proceedings in suits
in equity, in the Courts of the United States, in the district of
Louisiana, are required to be according tb the course of chancery
practice, and in conformity to that which is adopted and established in the other states. It is not intended to go into an examination of this question as one that is new and undecided, but
barely to refer to the cases which have been heretofore decided
by this Court. Ili the case of 'Livingston v. Story, which came
before this Cburt, in the year 1835, 9 Peters, 655, the Court took
occasion to examine the various laws of the United States establishing and organizing the District Court in Louisiana, and to
decide whether that Court had equity powers, and if so, whatshould be the mode of proceeding in the exercise of such powers.
The various cases which had been before the Court, involving
substantially the same question, in relation to the states where

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

15

[Gaines et at v. Relf et al]

there were no equity State Courts, or laws regulating the practice
in equity causes, were referred to; and the uniform decisions of this
Court have been, that there being no equity State Courts did not
prevent the exercise of equity jurisdiction in the Courts of the
United States. And it was accordingly decided, that the District
Court of Louisiana was bound to proceed in equity causes according to the principles, rules, and usages, which belong to Courts of
Equity, as contradistinguished from Courts of common law; that
the acts of Congress have distinguished between remedies at
common law and in equity; and that to effectuate the purposes
of the legislature, the remedies in the Courts of the United States
are to be at common law, or in equity, not according to the practice
of the State Courts, but according to the principles of common
law and equity as distinguished and defined in that country from
which we derived our knowledge of those principles; subject,
of course, to such alterations as Congress might think proper to
make. But that no act of Congress had bepn passed affecting
this question. That the act of Congress of 1824 could have no
application to the case, because there were no Courts of Equity
or state laws in-Lo-tisiana, regulating the practice in equity cases.
And again, in the same case of Story v. Livingston, which came
before the Court in 1339, 13 Peters, 368, one of the'exceptions
takewto the master's report was, that by a rule of the District
Court, chancery practice had been abolished, and that such -a
proceeding was unknown to the practice of the Court. This
Court says, no such rule appears on the record. But we think
the occasion a proper one to remark, that if any such rule has been
made by the District Court of Louisiana, it is in violation of those
rules which the Supieme Court.of the United States has passed to
regulate the practice in the Courts of Equity of the United States;
that those rules are as obligatory upon the Courts of the United
States in Louisiana, as upon all other United States Courts; and
that the only inodificatior's or additions that can be made in them,
by the Circuit or District -Courts, are such as shall not be inconsistent with the rules thus prescribed: and that where such rules
do not apply, the practice of the Circuit and District Courts must
be regulated by the practice of the C.Qurt of Chancery in England. That parties to suits in Louisiana have a right to the benefit of
these rules; nor can they be denied by any rule or order, without

16

SUPREME COURT.
[Gaines et al.
v.Relf et al]

causing delays, producing unnecessary and oppressive expenses;
and in the greater number of cases, an entire denial of equitable
rights. That this Court has said, upon more than one occasion,
after mature deliberation, that the Courts of the United States in
Louisiana possess equity powers under the constitution and
laws of the United States. That if there are any laws in Louisiana directing the mode of proceeding in equity causes, they are
adopted by the act of the 26th of May, 1824, and will govern
the practice of the Courts of the United States, But; as has
been already said, there are no such laws in Louisiaha, and, of
course, the act cannot apply.
And in the case Ex parte Poultney v. The City of La Fayette,
12 Peters, 474, this Court said, the rules of chancery practice, in
Louisiana, mean the rules prescribed by this Court for the government of the Courts of the United States, under the authority
given by the act of the 8th of May, 1792.
" And again; in the year 1839, in the case Ex parte
Mira Clarke
Whitney, 13 Peters, 404, application was made to this Court
for a mandamus to compel the district judge'to proceed in this
case according to the course of chancery practice, upon a petition to the Court representing -thathe had refused so to do, but
had entered an order that all further proceedings should be conformable to the provisions of the Code of Practice in Louisiana,
and the acts of the legislature of that state. Upon this application,
this Court again declared, that it is the duty of the Court to proceed in the suit according to the rules prescribed by the Supreme
Court for proceedings in equity causes, 't the February term,
1822. That the proceedings of the district judge, and the orders
made by him in this cause, (the very order now in question,)
were not in conformity with those rules, and with chancery
practice; but that it was not a case in which a mandamus
ought to issue, because the district judge was proceeding in the
cause; and however irregular that proceeding' might be, the
appropriate redress, if any, is to be obtained by an appeal, after
a final decree shall be made in the cause. That a writ of mandamus was not the appropriate remedy for any orders which.
may be made in a cause by ajudge, in the exercise of his authority,
although they may seem to bear harshly or oppressively upon
the party.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

17

[Gaines et al. v. Relf et aL]

Such are the views which have been heretofore taken by this
Court upon the questions raised by the points which have been
certified in the record before us; and which leave no doubt that
they must all be answered in the affirmative. These questions
ha ving been so repeatedly decided by this Court, and the grounds
upon which they rest so fully stated and published in the reports,
that it is unnecessary, if not unfit, now to treat this as an open
question. It is matter of extreme regret, that it appears to be
the settled determination of the District Judge, not to suffer chancery practice to prevail in the Circuit Cqurt in Louisiana, in
equity causes; in total disregard of the repeated decision's of this
Court, and the rules of practice established by the Supreme Court
to be observed in chancery cases.
This Court, as has been heretofore decided, has not the power
to compel that Court to proceed according to those established
rules; all that we can do is to prevent proceedings otherwise, by
reversing them when brought here on appeal.
All the questions presented by the record are accordingly
answered in the affirmative.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the,Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and on the points and questions on which
the judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion,
and which were certified to this Court for its opinion, agreeably
to the act of Congress in such case made and provided; and was
argued by counsel. Oi consideration whereof, it is the opinion
of this Court, 1st. That chancery practice does prevail, and-should
be extended to litigants in the. said Circuit Court, and in this
cause. 2d. That the order of the said Court, of the date of 9th
March, 1837, should be annulled and vacated. And, lastly, that
this cause should be placed upon a rule docket, and the comp!ainants be permitted to proceed according to chancery practice;
and the defendants be required to answer.without oyer of the
documents prayed for, or a service'of the bill in French, as prayed
for. -Whereupon it is now here ordered and decreed by this
Court, that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court with direttiQns to proceed wcordingiv.
3

