JANUARY TERM, 1841.

THE

UNITED

STATES, APPELLANTS,

318

V. JosEPH DELESPINE,

APPELLEE.
A grant by the Spanish authorities was made of ninety-two thousand one hundred
and sixty acres of land at Now river, in Florida, in 1813, afterwards the grantee de.
termined to locate the grant on a river seventy miles south of New river. The
grantee proposed erecting mills for sawing timber. No survey was made of land at
New river, and the grantee claimed to have- the grant confirmed, and to locate the
same, by survey, at the 'place last selected. No mills were erected on the lands
claimed, nor was any thing done by him under the grant, for the purpose of using
or improving the land claimed to have been granted. Held, that the grant made inr
1813, of land at the mouth of New river, imposed no obligation on the government
of Spain, at the date of the Florida treaty, in 1819, to confirm the title claimed by
the grantee; and that none rests on the government of United States, as the successor of the government of Spain, to the rights and obligations of Spain.
A concession of lands by the Council, at St. Augustine, was not authorized by the laws
of Spain, relative to the granting and confirming land titles.
When i grant of land is indefinite as to its location, or so uncertain 'as to me plade
where the lands granted are intended to be surveyed, as to make it impqssible to
make a survey under the term of the grant with certainty, the grant will not be
confirmed.
The act of Congress of 26th May, 1830, requires, that all claims to lands which have
L.ep presented to the Commissioners, or to the Register and Receiver of East Florida,
and had not been "finally acted upon," should be adjudicated and settled, as prescribed by the act of 1828. There was no direct limitation as to the time in which
a claim should be presented.
When a petition for the confirmation of a claim to lands in Florida, was presented, and
wasdefective, and the Court allowed an amended petition to be filed, it would be too
strict to say the original petition was not the commencement of the proceeding, but
that the amendment allowed by the Superior Court, should be taken as the date when
the claim was first preferred.
When certain testimonials of title, under a Spanish grant, have been admitted without
exception, before the Commissioners of the United States for the adjustment of
claims to lands in Florida, and before the Superior Court in Middle Florida, without
objection as to the mode and form of their proof; the Supreme Court, on an appeal,
will not interfere with the question as to the sufficiency of the proof, or the authenticity of the acts relating to the title, which had been admitted by the authorities in
Florida, which was the tribunal to judge of the evidence.
The case of The United States v. Clarke, 8 Peters, 454, cited.

APPEAL from the Superior Court, Southern District of

Florida.

320-"

SUPREME COURT.
[The .United States r. Delespine.]

In November, 1830, Joseph Delespine presented a petition to
the Superior Court of East Florida, asking for the confirmation
of a grant by the Spanish government of Florida, of a tract of
land on Rio Neuvo, of two leagues to each point of the compass;
to contain ninety-two thousand one hundred and sixty acres.
The claim of the petitioner was founded on an alleged grant to
Juan Xavier de Arrambide, a. Spanish subject, by the Captain
General of the Island of Cuba, on the 15th of November, 1813,
and which was confirmed by-the Governor, and. Corpolation of
East Florida, the 22d of March, 1814.
The petition alleges, as the reason the claim was not before presented for confirmation, there was no person, during a
great portion of tbe'time, as the District Attorney of the United
States, on whom process could be served as is -equired by the
act of Congress.
The documents on which the claim was founded, and which'
were referred to in the proceedings, on the part of the petitioner,
are particularly referred to, in the argument of the Attorney
General of the United States, and in the opinion of the Court.
The United States resisted the claim, on the allegation, that if
there had been a grant, which Was not admitted, and -without
condition, the present claimant holding under the alleged grant
to Juan Xavier de Arrambide, did not comply with the Y'equisitions of the statute in such case made and provided; and also,
that the claim is not protected by the Florida treaty.
The Superior Court of Florida madb a decree in favour of the
claimant; and the United States prosecuted this appeal.
The case was argued by Mr. Gilpin, Attorney General, for the
United States; and by Mr. Downing, for the appellee.
Mr. Gilpin, for the United States.
This is a claim for the enormous amount of ninety-two thousand one hundred and sixty acres of land, which now are; and
always have been unsettled and uncultivated. The claim has
been allowed by the Superior Court of East Florida, and this
Court is now called upon to ratify that decision. There are'
several grounds upon which' this ought not to be done.
1. Th6 claim is one of which the Court below had kno legal
cognisance at the time it passed upon it. Under the act of Con-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

221

[The United States v. Delespine.] "

gress, of 3d March, 1823, (3 Story's Lawg, 1907,) commissioners
were appointed to examine into the validity of these claims, and
under its provisions this was presented to their consideration.
Their report thereon was made in December, 1825, and submitted to Congress., On the 23d May, 1828, an act was passed, (4
Story's Laws) 2124,) authorizing claimants, whose claims had
not been finally settled under the regulations previously adopted,
to submit them for adjudication to the judge of the Superior
Court of that district in Florida, in which the lands lay ; but there
was an express provision that they should be forever barred,
unless this should be done within one year from the passage of
the act, that is, before the 23d of May, 1829; or if, from any
neglect of the claimant, they were not prosecuted to a final decision within two years, that is, the 23d of May, 1830. On the
26th of May, 1830, Congress, by an act then passed, (4 Story's
Laws, 2198,) provided for certain claims that had been reported
upon, among which the. present was not embraced; they then
went on to declare, in express terms, "that all the remaining
claims, which had been presented according to law, and not
finally acted upon," should be adjudicated by'the Courts in
Florida, in the manner prescribed by the act of 23d May, 1828.
On the 20th of November, 1830, the present claim was presented
to the Superior Court of East Florida. This the claimant had
no right to do, unless it had been previously presented, in the
manner the law prescribed, and not finally acted upon. It may
be doubted whether the submissiori of it to the commissioners,
their decision, and its report to Congress, did -not amount to such
a final action as the law contemplated. Such cases cafinot be
considered as those which Congress regarded as unacted upon,
and for which it was the object of the law to provide. It was
evidently meant to grant time beyond the two years prescribed.
in the act of 1828, for the adjudication of the claims that mnight
be then pending in the Courts of Florida. But, admitting that
this case wvas not fifi-ily acted upon by the proceedings in 1825,
still the main inquiry is, whether it had been previously presented
"accotding to law." This was an indispensable requisite. The
law required its presentation before the 23d of -ay, 1829. It
was not so presented Had it been so presented and notproperly
prosecuted, it would then have been within the terms of this act.
41

322

SUPREME COdURT.
[Thb United staes v'. Delespine.]

It never was the intention of Congress to permit those i ho had
allowed their claims thus to remain unpresented, now to bring
them, for the first time, before the Courts. The failure to "present
the claim according to law," is fatal, therefore, to the present
proceeding.
2. The title of the claimant is denied, under a grant to Juan
Xavier de Arrambide, said to .have' been made by the council
of the city of St. Augustind, on the 22d of,March', 1814, in pursuance of a "certifieacion," or testimonial inhis favour, purporting to have been issued by the Provincial Deputation at Havana,
and filed among the records of the City Council. The sole evidence of this grant, produced by the claimant, consists of a copy
of the filed copy of the proceedings of the Deputation at "Havana,
and of the proceedings thereon of the City Council at St. Augustine. The whole of these are certified, at St. Augustine, by Jttan
de Entralgo, who merely says, *" this a copy." There is also a
certificate that Entralgo is secretary of the City. Council, and a
notary of the government. There is no secondary or corrobora-*
tive testimony to sustain the grant. There is no evidence of the
existence of the original documents either in Cuba or Florida.
There is no survey, or subsequent order, or proceeding connected
therewith. There is no proof of Entralgo's signature, or that
of the annexed certificates. It is submitted, that this evidence is
altogether insufficient to bring the case within the rule established
by this Court, in the case of The United States v. Wiggins, 14
Peters, 348. If an alleged copy of a grant, thus unsupported by
any additional testimony, is received as sufficient, it would not
' be difficult to sustain the most unfounded claims. The rule just
referred to, is certainly one of the broadest liberality; it is all that
claimants can require: to extend it, in the manner now proposed,
would be seriously to endanger the evidences of titles, while it
would give to claimants an indulgence which no just or prudent
'liberality requires.
3. But the grant, if made, was not legal and valid; it was not,
and could not have been "perfected into a complete title, under and
in conformity to the laws, usages, and customs" of the Spanish
government. 3 Story's Laws, 1959. The grant consists of two
distinct parts and proceedings. FirSt, the "certificacion," or
testimonial of the Provincial Deputation of Havana, dated 4th'

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

323

[The United States v. Delesphie.]

December, 1813, in which they "1are pleased to state" to the
City Council of St. Augustine, "that they grant in property"'to
Arraibide, two leagues "of the land he may choose, from the
mouth of New river, which discharges itself on the coast of East'
Florida, and through Puerto Largo, on the south part, following
the same course to the shore." Secondly, the "accuerdo," or
resolution of the "Ayuntamiento," or City Council of St. Augastine, dated 22d March, 1814; in which, I in obedience as well to
the resolution of the aforesaid deputation, as to the approval of
the most excellent Captain General, they determined to grant
the favour solicited" by Arrambide, which was "to despatch to
him the title of property of the said two leagues to the north of
the river Miamis, which are on the north-west side of the Cayo
Biscayno ;" he reserving to himself to produce the plat of the
said lands as soon as he found himself prepared to take it out;
and they directed their Secretary to deliver to him an authenticated copy of all these proceedings. This purports to have been
done on 3d June, 1814.
This grant thus depends, in fact, on the authority of ,the Provincial Deputation at Havana' to make it.. Whence is their
power derived? No instance, among the numerous cases that
have been adjudged by this Court, has occurred in which such
an authority has been relied on by a claimant. It is at total
variance with usage and practice; it is at total variance with the
whole land system of the Spanish colonies; it has no sanction
in the laws of the Indies. The angwer given by counsel for the
claimants to these objections is, that "the land was granted by
the provincial committee, the constitution of that day beifig then
in force in the provinces, and said committee having power to
grant lands." To support this allegation, it must be shown that,
by the constitution or laws of Spain, the Provincial Deputation.
at Havana had authority to grant lands in East Florida. What
authority to this effect has been produced ? Nothing, whatever,
but the decree of the Cortes of the 4th of January, 1813.
1 Clarke's Land Laws, 1006. A slight examination of that
decree', and of the constitutional' provisions out of' which it
grew, will show, not only that it confers no such power, but that
the exercise of it is at variance with the provisions and object
of the decree. The new constitution of Spain was adopted by

324

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Delespine.]

the Cortes, in the absefice of the king, on the 14th of March,
1812. The first and second chapters of the sixth title establisli
the "Ayuntamientos" or town councils, and the "1Diputaciones
Provinciales ;" and prescribe the functions of both. Among
these, no power is conferred to dispose of the public domain. It
may have been the intention of the Cortes, and probably was, to
vest in them this power, under regulations to be digested in future laws. By the constitution, however, it was neither directly
or-indirectly aone. 2 Decretos de las Cortes, 154. 157. Early
in the following year we accordingly find the Cortes acting on
the subject. On the 17th of January, 1813, the regency promulgated the decree adopted by the Cortes on the 4th of that
month, (3 Decretos de las Cortes, 174. 1 Clarke's Land Laws,
1006. 8 Peters, 454. 14 Peters, 342,) by which it was determined that the public domain (contrary to the system previously existing) should be no longer ceded gratuitously to settlers, but be "made to serve as an aid to .the public necessities."
Among the articles of this decree was one directing "the Provincial Deputations to propose to the Cortes, through the medium
of the Regency, the time and the terms when it would be most
convenient to carry this disposition into effect, in their respective
piovinces, according to the circumstances of the country, and
the lands which it may be indispensable to preserve for the town-,
ships, in order that the Cortes may determine upon what may
be most convenient to each territory;-" and it was further directed that " this business be recommended to the zeal of the
regency of the kingdom, and to the two 'Secretaries of State, in
order that they may bring forward and inform the Cortes at all
times of the representations which the Provincial Deputations
direct to them."
1 Clarke's Land Laws, 1006. This is all
that the decree says in regard to the power of the Provincial
Deputations. It has no reference, whatever, to grants of the
public lands by them. They were required to make reports (as
it may be seen that they again were in 1820, when similar
changes were again contemplated; (6 Decretos de las Cortes,
345,) on certain points which he Cortes desired to ascertain, in
order to perfect the contemplated change in the mode of disposal
of the national domain. They were to examine what quantity
was to be reserved for township purposes. They were to corn-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

325

[The United States v. Delespine.]

municate their opinions to the Secretaries of State. These
powers and duties were the only ones which the most liberal
view of the decree confers on the Provincial Deputations. To
construe language such as this, in a decree founded on a system
which was to make the public lands "serve as an aid to the
public necessities," into a power to grant gratuitously in absolute property, more than ninety thousand acres to a single individual, is to interpret it in a manner warranted by no rules of
reasonable or legal construction. It is also to be inquired ho~w
any power conferred on the Provincial Deputation at Havana
could either be exercised by thexiselves in East Florida, or be
delegated by them to the City.Council at St. Augustine; for it was
from that body that the grant to Arrambide actually emanated.
- But if the Provincial Deputation ever possessed such a.power,
it was annulled before the grant was perfected. Arrambide did
not receive the "expediente," or copy of the proceedings, till the
30th of June, 1814. He was, after that, to "produce the plat
of the said lands," and was not to receive his title in form until
he di4 so. On the 4ih 6! May, 1814, Ferdinand VII. resumed
the throne of Spain.; and among his very first acts was a royal
order, dated on that day, restoring the authority of the Captains
General and Governors in the privinces; (1 Decretos de Fernando,
7. 13;) succeeded very.shortly by other decrees re-establishing
the ancient laws and usages in America. On -the 4th of June
he directed the observance of the laws of the Indies, and the
ordinances of the Intendants in regard to the public domain;
and during that and the succeeding month several royal decrees
to the same effect were promulgated. Decretos del Rey.Fernando VIL, v. i. 1 Clarke's Land Laws, 1010. 2 White's
New Rec., 155. How then could Arrambide produce to the
Provincial Deputation, or to the City Council? the plat whicl hb
had promised? How could he receive his title in form, or perfect his grant, under a system which was totally annulled?
How could it derive validity from the acts of an authority,
which, if it ever possessed power to make such a grant, had
ceased, by the change of the government, to retain it, even before the time when he received from the notary the evidence of
his incipient title? And that such, too, was the opinion of the
officers of the Spanish government,who have ever been disVOL. XV.-2 E

326

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Delespine.]

posed to countenance, as far as possible, these claims in Florida,
is evident from the testimony of the Superior Accountant of
Havana ; which may be seen in a rdport made by him in 1824,
under a royal order, in relation to grants of land-4n Florida.
He says that no evidence, whatever, was found* in regard to
this grant in the principal treasury at Havana; and in a report
made sloxtly after, by another of the public authorities, this
grant (with the exception of that to Arredondo, which was
made some years afterwards, under the royal authority) is decla red to be the only one ever known to have been made of land
in East Florida by the atithorities of Havana. 2 White's New
Rec., 378. 380. It may be assumed, then, as beyond a question,
that this grant from the Provincial Deputation at Havana, would
not have been recognised as "valid, if the territories had remained under the dominion of hig Catholic Majesty," and, therefore,
that the United States are not buund to ratify and confirm it.
Admit, however, that the Provincial Deputation had the legal
right to authorize the City Council of St. Augustine to make the
grant, as stated in the testimonial; still, the grant made by the
Council, on which the claimant rests his title, is not warranted
by it. Na description can be more carefully explicit than that
which designates the tract intended to be granted by the Provincial Deputation. It is a square of land, cornprising two leagues
to each cardinal point of the compass, on the south side of New
rivir, reaching down to the sea shore, at the inlet of Puerto
Largo, where that river discharges itself into the ocean. This,
and this only, the City Council were authorized to "grant in
property" to Arrtnbide. But the resolution of the Council
grants him "two leagues of land to the north of the river Miamies, which are on the north-west side of Cayo Biscayno," and
that is the tract in which the claimant now asks to be, confirmed.
The localities are altogether different. The two places are distant from each other sixty or seventy miles. The position, that
the location cannot be varied from the description in the grant,
unless, as in the case of The United States v. Sibbald, 10 Peters,
321; such variation be expressly authorized; has been repeatedly
laid down by this Court. If the claimant abandons his title
under the grant of the Provincial Deputation, and relies on that
of the City Council of St. Augustine, he is met by two objec-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

327

[The United States v. Delespine.]

tions, either of whih is fatal. The Council had no authority,
under any law or royal order that has ever been produced, to
make grants of land in the territory of East Florida; and if they
had, this grant, which they have here made, ispso deficient in a
description of locality,, that, as in the case of The United States
v. Forbes, it is impossille to found a decree upon it, in the'absence
of any return of survey.
4. If the claimant has established, that the grant of the land
he claims was, in fact, made in due form, still the validity of his
title depended on the survey, occupation, and settlement of it, and
the erection of mills. The concession was not solicited or conferred on account of any services. In his representation, Arrambide promises "to produce the plat (f the lands, as soon as
lie finds himself prepared to take it out, to commence the establishment which he is to effect." The survey and demarcation
of the land were thus a condition of his own making, in the year
1814; until this should be done, he was not prepared to receive
his title; by the existing regulations in regard to grants of public
lands, he could not have done so, unless a settlement and survey
had been made within a limited period, but, in addition to that,
the terms of his own application prescribed their necessity. In
the testimonial'of the provincial deputation, it is stated that he
solicited a grant of the land, "with the object of establishing on
it mills for sawing timber ;" and. this is assigned as a reason for
granting him a tract so unusually large. From the claimant's
own evidence, as set out in the record, it is apparent that there
was an entire neglect to comply with any such conditions. In
1818, Arrambide told one of the witnesses that "he was going to
build mills ;" and in 1824, another witness, who resided near the
Miami river, "knew of no mills being erected there" by him.
A witness who was there in 1815, "saw two white families ana
some negroes belonging to the establishmint" of Arrambide;
but on returning there, about four years afterwards, he "found
but one of the families remaining, and understood that .they
were there on their own account." It is not even alleged that,
before this abandonment, any survey had been made, or any
plat of the lands produced. "The assignment," says Saavedra,
in his first report, in 1818, to Governor Coppinger, "of extensive
portions of territory, which ha*e been made for the establish-

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Delespine.]

ment of factories, to persons who did not then comply, or have
not since presented themselves to establish their mechanical
works, ought to be considered withbut any right or value, and
said lands declared perfectly free, that they may revert into the
class of public lands." And in his second report, made in the
following year, he again says, ".as it is certain that many individuals who have obtained such concessions have remaiicd in
inaction, without having for so long a period advanced the establishment of said works, it appears just, that such concessions,
which have remained in inactivity, should be declared null and
of no effect." 2 White's'New Rec. 284. 290.
Mr. Downing, for the appellee, stated:
This is a claim for "two leagues of land, to each point of the
compass, for the purpose of erecting saw-mills, making, &c., and
cutting lumber. The land was granted by the "Provincial Committee," December 4, 1813 : the constitution of that day being
then in force in the pr vinces, and said committee having the
power to grant lands.
This grant was subsequently approved by Governor Kindelan,
and was ne-'r annulled.
1. This grant was filed before the Court in time; (4 sec., law
of 1830.)
2. It was made by full authority; it was unconditional, and
is valid.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the Court.
The first objection to the decree of the Court below, made in
behalf of the United States, is: 1. "That the claim ought not to
be sustained; because, neither the claimant, nor those under
whom he claims, ever came within the provisions of the act of
Congress, applicable to the said claim; or filed any petition,
memorial, or necessary documents within the term required by
law."
By the act of the 26th of May, 1830, Congress declared, that
all claims to lands not settled by that act, and which had been
presented to the Commissioners of East Florida, or to the Register and Receiver acting as such, and which had not been "final
ly acted upon," should be adjudicated and settled as prescribed

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

329

[The United States v. Delespine]

by the act of. 1828. The final action referred to in the act of
1830, was that of Congress. 7 Peters, 94. So that the claim
in controversy is of the description required, and within the jurisdiction of the Courts, by the fourth section of the act of 1830;
nor do we find any thing in the act, which precluded the Court
below from entertaining the petition for the establishment of the
claim, on the ground that it had not been filed in time. By
the act of 1828, c. 70, s. 12, it was declared, that claims not
brought before the Courts within one year from the date of that
act, should be forever barred: and thus stood Delespine's claim,
when the act of 1830 was passed. This act has no direct limitation in it; nor is it open to inquiry in this case, whether a limitation cn be implied; because the petition was filed in Novemher, 1830, within one year after the date of the act: and although
the first petition was informal, and defective in substance, still,
it would be too strict, to say it was not the commencement of
the proceeding, but that the amendment allowed by the Superior
Court, in November, 1833, should be taken as the date when the.
claim was first preferred.
It had been filed before the commissioners for adjudicating the
Florida land claims, as early as 1825, we are informed by the
petition; and reported to Congress, with a recommendation, that
it be confirmed. This fact is not denied, or controverted; and
which we take to be true.
. 2. It is insisted that the evidence in the cause
is insufficient
to prove that the alleged grant or concession was ever made,
It appears, that on the 28th day of May, 1813, Arrambide
applied, to the Provincial- Deputation, at Havana, for two leagues
of land toeach point of the compass, making ninety-two thousand one hundred and sixty acres; that, on the 4th of Deceml~er,
1813, the Deputation stated to the Council of St. Augustine, that
it granted the land to Arrambide.. and referred tri-e grantee to
the Council, with a command to the Couricil to expedite to him
the title.
The ordinary modes of granting lands in Florida, had been
directly, either by the Captain General of Cuba, or the Governor
of Florida; but owing to a recent call of the Cortes in Spain,
and a re-organization of the Spanish government, existing at the
date of the concessign; and which state of things lasted only for
2 z2

42

330

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Delespine.]

a short time, the mode 'of proceeding, in regard to grantitrg the
public domain, was changed, and the powers vested, in the
tribunals known as "the Provincial Deputation." This appears
by the royal order of the 4th 'of January, 1813, found in the
United States Land Laws, Appendix, 1006. It .was made the
duty of the Provincial Deputation, to devisp the most convenient means of making grants; and through the Secretaries of
State, to report the same to the Cortes, for their recognition and
adoption.
The Deputation at Havana assumed the power to grafft; and
nothing appearing to the contrary of the existence of the power
in that body, and the concession miade at Havana, not being
opposed to the, royal order of January, 1813, and there being
no occasion, in this case, to inquire into the powers of the Provincial Deputation ; we have treated the testimonial as emanating from the proper authority, leaving the point open to future
inquiry, should an occasion call for it, and positivelyrequire us
to decide whether the Deputation had the power assumed.
It was necessary to state thus much of the case, and of the
then state of the Spanish tribunals and history, preparatory to
discussing the effect of the proofs intended to establish that the
grant had in fact been made.
Jose Leal, representing himself as a notary at Havana, certifies, that on the 13th of Januaryi 1814, he had recorded the
original memorial of Arrambide, and the documents accompanying the same, with the testimonial, or concession; a record
of which he testifled in presence of tw6 witnesses. This record
purports to have been made pursuant to the order of the Captain
General, on the petition of Arrambide. Thus authenticated, the
testimonial of the grant appears to have been presented to the
Council of East Florida; but none of the accompanying documents, so far as can be seen, or 'inferred from the record before
us, were presented.
On the 1st'day of February, 1814, the Council acted upon the
testimonial, but granted lands at a different place from the one
therein expressed.
On the 3d of June, 1814, Fntralgo, the Secretary, says, "This
is a copy." And on the 6th of June following, Ygninez and

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

331

[The United States v. Delespine.]

Lopez, styling themselves Royal Collector, and Treasurer, certify to the official character of Enrtralgo.
How far the forms of these certificates could have been called
in question, in the Supreme Court, it is difficult to say; no objection, however, on the hearing in that Court, was made to the
introduction of the testimonial given the interested party at
Havana; nor to the resolution taken thereon by the Council at
St. Augustine; and we therefore do not feel ourselves justified
in rejecting them on this appeal, becapse of the informality ill
the evidence adduced to the Court below of their existence in
the public archives of Florida. The claim had been presented
to the American commissioners years before, without objection
to the existence of the title by the board, so far as we are informed.
But we chiefly rely on this, that from the nature and great extent of the claim, if such an objection had been well founded, or
even suspected, it is fair to presume the counsel for the government of the United States would have interposed and demanded
of the Superior Court, on the hearing, the rejection of the claim,
on the ground that the evidence did not establish its existence.
From any thing that appears to the contrary, the originals of
the proceeding had before the Council of St. Augustine, in 1814,
may have been before the Court, and admitted in evidence without objection.
Furthermore, the authenticity of the testimonial made in Arrambide's behalf, at Havana, was sanctioned by the Council of St.
Augustipe, in March, 1814; that was the tribunal to judge of its
character as evidence: and h3ving been treated a's an existing
and authentic act, this Court cannot, with any propriety at this
day, hold otherwise5 especially, as not the slightest suspicion
attaches to the authenticity of the title*papers, such as they are
found in the record.
-3. Having disposed of the exceptions taken to the existence
of the title, we will next inquire what the effect of the testimonial was. We will take for granted that the papers on their
face, considered in connexion with the royal order of January
4th, 1813, sufficiently establish the fact, that the power to grant
at the particular time when the grant was made, was in the Provincial Deputation at Havanna, and not in the Council of the
city of St. Augustine. The Council had imposed on it the duty

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Delespine.]

"to despatch the corresponding title" to the lands granted by
the Deputation. And to this end, and with this request, by the
petition of Arrambide, was the testimonial laid before the
Council in the present instance.
After the title in form was despatched, the proceedings were
to be returned to the Provincial Depufation; conforming in this
respect to the'12th and 17th articles of the royal order. The
resolution of the Council must, thereforeifound itself on the testimonial. TheProvincial Deputation stated to the Council, "That
they granted in prqperty to Arrambide, two leagues square to
each point of the compass, of the lands he may choose, from the
mouth of New river, which discharges itself on the coast of East
Florida, and through Puerta Largo, on the south part, following
the same course to the sea shore; con,rming as near as possible
to the said decree.'"
New river, and the :,.let through which it passes into the
ocean, are well known in tl3 geography of East Florida; lying
north of the twenty-sixth degree of latitude, on the eastern coast,
Fort Lauderdale being now established at the mouth of that river.
From th. mouth of this river the interested party was authorized
to choose the land; and we apprehend it was to be taken on the
south part of the river, and wds certainly partly on the ocean.
On the 1st of February, 1814, Arrambide, by his petition
dated at Havana, solicited the Coudcil of the city of St. Augustine, to expedite to him the title in conformity to the grant of the
4th of December, 1813, in the territory of the province of East
Florida, and on the south part thereof.
'The testimonial leaving," says he, "to my choice, the place
where I should settle myself; and desiring to possess two leagues
to the north of the river Miamies, which is at the north-west side
of Largo Byscayno, I pray your honours to be pleased* to expedite to me the corresponding title of property for the two leagues
of land to each point of the compass, agreeably to this situation:
reserving to myself to produce the plat of the said lands, as soon
as I find myself prepared to take it out, to commence the establishment, which I am to effect."
The Miamies is a Tiver also well -known in the geography of
East Florida, and lies about one degree of latitu.de south of the
New river; and at the mouth of which is now Fort Dallas.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

333

[The United States v. Delespine.]

The grant made at Havana, was " with the object of establishing on it mills for sawing timber ;" such was the iepresentation made by -Arrambide to the Deputation, as we are bound
to infer from the papers adduced; although the representation
does not appear in the record. No survey has ever been made
at the mouth of New river; nor could any be made, unless
ordered-by the Council of St. Augustine; nor has the proposed
establishment been made at that or any other place.
On applying to the Local Council of East Florida, Arrambide
abandoned his first location, and claimed to select another, inthe
neighbourhood of a river lying sixty or seventy miles further
south. Of the abandonment there can be no doubt. No claim is
set up, in the petition, for the land at the mouth of New river,
as granted-by the Provincial Deputation.
To the grant at Havana, the rule applies which was laid
down by Saavedra at the command of Governor Coppinger,
in answer to the inquiries of the agent of the Duke of Allegon,
and recited in the case of The United States v. Clarke, 8 Peters,
461 ; that "The assignments of extensive portions of territory;
which have been made for the establishment of factories, to
persons who did not then comply, nor have since presented
themselves to establish their mechanical works, ouht also to
be considered without any right or value; and said lands perfectljr free, that they may revert into the class of public lands."
The opinion and report, from which the foregoing is an extract,
was recognised as authority by this Court, in the case of The
Vjnited States v. Wiggins, 14 Peters, 351; and we imagine its
accuracy is indisputable. We therefore think, from the facts
presented by ihe fecord, as also by the-laws of Spain, the grant
made at the mouth of New river, by the Provincial Deputation,
imposed no obligation on the government of Spain, at the date
of the treaty of 1819, to confirm the title to Arrambide; and that
none rests on the government of the United States, as the successor to the rights and obligations of Spain.
4. Did the concession, made by the Council at St. Augusiine,
confer any title? It was professedly made in conformity to the
authority of the testimonial and decree of the Provincial Deputation of Cuba; and could only be intended to expedite the
formal title. The Coumcil neither had, or professed to have in

334

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Delespine.]

itself, the power to make a new and independent grant to Arrambide; thereby disregarding the commands of its superiors,
and of the laws and regulations recently adopted for the government of the provincial authorities, when granting lands.
The concession was, therefore, void, for want of power in the
tribunal that assumed to make it.
This Court say, in the case of the United States v. Clarke,
8 Peters, 454, 455, that the royal order of the 4th of January,
1813, founded on the decree of the Cortes, seems to hhve been
repealed on the 22d of August, 1814. That it was annulled by
the King about that time, there can be no doubt; and it may be,
the title of Arrambide would not have been recognised by Spain,
after the repeal. So it may have been impossible for him to
make the survey, or return the proceedings to the Deputation of
Havana, according to any known law, after the repeal; that
he had no time to do so, between the 22d of March, 1814, when
the Council made the concession, and the 22d of August of that
year, when the repeal took place, may be safely assumed: yet,
with the very slight information we have on this subject, and of
those times in the history of Spain, it has been deemed proper
not to institute an inquiry into the effect of the repeal of thle royal
order of 1813.
The decree below, is for a square of land of twelve English
miles; the centre of the tract, to be two leagues northward from
the mouth of the Miamies, and two leagues from the sea coast;
the lines of the survey to be to the cardinal points of the
compass.
The petition of Arrambide, asked of the Council of East
Florida, two leagues to each point of the compass, "to the
north of the river Miamies."
That the land was to have been
selected in the neighbourhood of some part of the river, and north
of it, is sufficiently plain; but whether near the ocean, or near
what other part of the river, does not appear, and for an obvious reason, the grantee reserved to himself, "the right to produce the plat of the said lands, as soon as he found himself
prepared to take it out, and to commence the establishment.
which he was to effect." This Was never done, and no particular lands could have been decreed to Arrambide; had the
Council at St. Augustine possessed the power to grant. The

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

335

EThe United States v. Delespine.]

doctrine on this subject is stated in seveial cases decided at the
present term; and which need not be repeated. It was not possible for the Superior Court to locate any land, as no particular
spot was granted; lands not previously granted, were, by the
treaty, vested in the United States, as part of the public domain ;
the public domain cannot lbe granted by the Courts; this, the
decree below attempted to effect: and on this ground, was there
no other objection to the decree, it should be reversed; which is
ordered; and that the petition be dismissed.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the record
from the Superior Court, for the Southern Judicial District of
Florida, and was argued by counsel: On consideration whereof,
it is ordered and decreed by this Court, that the decree of the
said Superior Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled, and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the said Superior Court, with directions to
dismiss the petitioh of the claimant.

