SUPREME COURT.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. JOHN RODMAN, ASSIGNEE
OF ROBERT MIHARDY, APPELLEE.
A claim to land in East Florida, founded on a grant by Governor Xin&Tn, to
Robert M'Hardy, dated November 8, 1814, confirmed by the Supreme Court.
The Supreme Court, in the case of the United States v. Clark, 8 Peters, 48, say "that
if the validity of the grant depends upon its being in conformity with the royal order
of Spain of 1790, it cannot be supported ;" but immediately proceeds to show,
"though the royal order is recited in the grant, that it was, in fact, founded on the
meritorious consideration of the petitioner having constructed a machine of great
value for sawing timber; the recital of the royal order of 1790, in ,this grant, is
entirely immaterial, and does not affect the instrument" Held, the recital of the
royal order, in this case, is quite immaterial.
The case of the United States v. Wiggins, 14 Peters, 325, which decided that certain
proof of the certificate of Aguilar, Secretary of East Florida, was sufficient, cited; and
the decision on that point affirmed.
The Sjanish governors of Florida had, by the laws of the Indies, power to make
large grants to the subjects of the crown of Spain. The royal order of Spain of 1790,
applied to grants to foreigners. These large grants, before the cession df Florida to the
United States, had been sanctioned for many years by the King of Spain, and the
authoritiesrepresefiting him in Cuba, the Floridas, and Louisiana. This ailthority
has been frequently affirmed by the Supreme Court.
Ah application was made fo the Governor of Florida, in 1814, stating services performed
by the petitioner for the government of Spain, and the intention of the petitioner to
invest his mieans in the erection of a water saw-mill; and marking the place where
the lands were situated, which were asked for. The Governor granted the lapd, referring to the merits and services of the applicant, and in consideration of the advantages which would result to the home and foreign trade liy the use proposed to be
made of the land. Held, that-this was not a conditional grant; and that no evidence
of.the erection of a water saw-mill was required to be given to maintain its validity,
or induce its confirmation.

APPEAL from the Superior Court of East Florida.
The appellee, as assignee of Robert M'Hardy, presented a
petition to the judge of the Superior Court for the Eastern District of Florida, claiming a tract of land containing sixteen thousand acres, situated in that district, on the west side of the river
St. Johns, at a place where there is a spring and stream --f fresh
water, formerly known by the name of" 1Old Stores."
The claim was alleged to be founded on a grant, dated No-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

131

[The United States v. Rodman.]

vember 8, 1814, by Governor Kindelan, the Spanish governor
of East Florida. The claim was opposed by the United States.
The Superior Court of East Florida decided in favour of the
claimant, and the United States prosecuted this appeal.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the Court.
It was argued by Mr. Gilpin, Attorney General for the United
States; Mr. Downing appeared ds counsel for the appellee.
Mr. Gilpin contended that the decision of the Court below
should be reversed, on the following grounds:
1st. That the evidence in the case is insufficient to prove that
the alleged grant or concession was ever made.
2d. That if it be proved or admitted that the alleged grant or
concession was ever made, still, that the same was not in conformity to the royal order of 29th October, 1790, by virtue of
which it is declared that the concession was made.
3d. That if it be proved or dmitted that the alleged grant or
concession was ever made, anji that it was in conformity to the
royal order of 29th October, 1790, still, that the same was granted
or conceded, on the condition that the claimant should build a
water saw-mill on the land so conceded, which condition never
has been complied with.
4th. That the concession, if ever made, being conditional, and
the conditions unperformed, it was incumbent on the cldimant
to assign reasons sufficient for the non-performance; which he
has not done.
Mr. Gilpin :-This is a claim for sixteen thousand acres of land,
on thp west side of the river St. Johns; f6unded on an alleged
concession to Robert M'Hardy, by Governor Kindelan, dated
8th November, 1814.
The Superior Court of East Florida adjudged the claim to be
valid. The correctness of this decree is contested by the United
States, because there is not, as they allege, competent evidence
to establish the concession to M'Hardy; and because, if the concession ever was made, a legal title to the land conceded never
accrued to the grantee.
I. The original concession of Governor Kindelan never has
been produced. The sole evidence of it is an alleged copy, cer-

1gg

SUPRE9ME COURT.
Me United mates v.Rodm)]

tified by Aguilar, the Governor's secretary. The circumstances
under which copies, thus certified, will be admitted' as evidence
of~a grant,'have been declared by this Court, in the cases of the
United States v. Percheman, 7 Peters, 84; The United States V.
Delespine, 12 Peters, 656,; and the Unite1 States v. .Wiggins, 14
Peters, 348. In the first, the Court held that the original must
be produced, if either party suggested its necessity; and in the
second, there was dLect evidence of the existence of the original.
In the last case, the CQurt admitted the copy, without any direct
evidence to that effect ;'but on the express ground that the presumptive testimony of the existence of the original was very
stiong ; and also. that there was a survey proved in conformity
with, and referring to the original grant. It is admitted that if the
evidence brings the pres -atcase within the rules established in
the case of the United States v. Wiggins, the concession is proved.
But is such the fact? There was no survey made until 1819,
nearly five years after the grant; and it was then made by a
person other than the surveyor designated in the order of survey,
and at a place different from that named in the grant. The proof
that the order of survey wais signed by GovernorlKindelan, is far
from'direct; the signature is identified by a single witness only,
and by him with some expressions of doubt.
II. But if the making of the concessions in 1814, by Govenior
Kindelah is established, had a. title under it valid by the Spanish law, accrued -to M'Hardy oft the 24th January, 1818; so
as to be ratified and confirmed -by the eighth article of the treaty?
6 Laws of United States, 618. 2 White's New Rec. 210. The.
concession is "a square of five miles" granted, as it states, "in
consideration," first, " of the advantages which will result in
favour of the home and foreign.trade of the j rovince ;" and,
secondly, "in conformity to the provisions of the royal order of
29th October, 1790, in relation to the distribution of lands to the
new inhabitants." The first consideration, evidently, has allusion
to the statement ot M'Hardy, in his memorial, that "he intended
to invest his means in the erection of a water saw-mill, in considerationi of the great scarcity of lumber ih.the province, both
in regard to the home consumption and to the purposes of commerce ;" the second consideration refers, undoubtedly, to the
claim to remuneration arising from his merits and services, also.

JANUARY TEPVM, 1841.

133

[The,United States v.Rodmam]

stated. in his memorial; that is, his fidelity to the government
during the rebellious invasion of the province in 1812, and his
loss of a crop in that year. It is admitted that the saw-mill
never was commenced; and that the land never was taken possessiqji of, occupied, or cultivated.
This grant is a mere concession; it is not a complete and absolute grant; to make it so, further acts were necessary on the
part of the Spanish government and of the grantee; these vwere,
a compliance with the provisions of the royal order of 1790,and
with the promise to erect a saw-mill: bQth of these were conditions annexed to the grant; and neither having been complied
with, the grant is not valid.
1. The royal order of 1790, 2 White's New Rec. 365, did not
authorize the governor of East Florida to make such a grant as
the claimant contends for. That order Was issued, as it declares,
for the purpose of inviting foreigners into the province; but
M'Hardy was not a foreigner. It limited the quantity of land
that might be granted, to a fixed number of acres, propoz'oned
to the number of workers a~tually employed; M'Hardy employed
no workers. Anl absolute grant of sixteen thousand acres to a
Spanish subject, who .made no settlement, could not, therefore,
be valid under the authority of the royal order of 1790. This
point is distinctly adjudged by this Court,.in the case of the
United States v. Clarke, 8 Peters, 446. There, the grant recited
the royal order of 1790, and also that Clarke " had constructed,
from his own ingenuity, a certain machine" of great value.
This Court, passing upon the grant, said that "it was too plain
for argument that, if its validity depended on its being in conformity with the royal order of 1790, it could not be supported:"
dad they held it to be valid only, because it did not depend upon
that order, but on the other motives expressed in the grant. If tli6
same rule be applied, as it must be, to the present case, then the
claim of M'Hardy to sixteen thousand acres cannot be valid under the royal order, but must depend on the other considerations
stated by Governor.Kindelan.
, But it is submitted that the recital, in this grant, by Governor
Kindelan, of the royal order of 1790, was not stiperfluous or
incorrect. It is the inference drawn from that recital by the
claimant, which is erroneous. The grant does not purport to be
VOL. XV.-M

134

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Rodman.]

made "by virtue of" the royal order of 1790, which was'applicable especially, if not exclusively, to foreigners; but it was
made to a Spanish subject, "in confdrmity to the provisions" of
that order; that is, according to the regulations which required
settlement and cultivatiop by a certain number of workers.
Under the power which the Governor possessed of making
grants for services, he made this concession to M'Hardy for
those to which he had, in his memorial, called his attention; but
as the grant was large, the Governor required that he should.
either comply with the provisions of the royal order, which were
recited in the concession, 6r erect a mill which would be "favourable to the home and foreign trade of the province." Had the
claimant settled the tract, and placed upon it the proper number
of workers, then he would have acted in conformity to the royal
order of 1790-Mthen the grant would have been valid, because
one of its conditions would have been complied with.
2. It is, however, valid, although the provisions of the royal
order of 1790 were not complied with, if the other condition was
executed-if the water saw-mim was erected. Was this done?
,It is' admitted that it was not; and, to obviate the -want of all
evidence to that effect, it is argued that the terms of the grant do
not imply that such erection is a necessary condition; and that,
under the decisions of this Court, such a grant is perfect, without
any such proof. That-the terms of the grant imply such a condition is apparent from its face. It is stated to be made "in
consideration" of the advantages that are to result from such an
establishment; the allusion to the petitioner's merits is not adduced as one of "the considerations" of the grant; they are not
of a character to warrant any donation, much less one of such
unusual magnitude; they are more than compensated by making
him the grant, subject to the provisions of the royal order of 1790,
in regard to settlement and cultivation; any other grant; any
possession of the land, unattended with a compliance with these
provisions, was intended to be coupled with this condition of building the saw-mill, which he proposed himself. In the cases of the
United States v. Kingsley, 12 Peters, 476, and of the United
States v. Burgevin, 13 Peters, 85, it was distinctly held, that,
where there was a condition in the grant that a saw-mill should
be erected, no title accrued withoutproof of its having been built.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

135

[The United States v. Rodman.]

It is true that, in those cases, the condition was stated in the
grant in terms more explicit than in tli- present case: but this
cannot affect the principle established by the Court. If there be
a condition in the grant itself, ascertained from its language, and
evincing the intent of both parties at the time the grant was
made, the particular language in which the condition is couched
is immaterial. The cases of the United States v. Clarke, 8 Peters, 448, and of the United States v. Segui, 10 Peters, 306, do
not conflict with these positions. In -the former, the grant was
not in consideration of a saw-mill to be erected; but in consideratiori of the applicant having already constructed, from his own
ingenuity, a peculiar nill of great value. In the case of the
United States v. Segui, this Court did indeed holdi that where a
jrant was made in absolute property, they would not attach a
condition, from the mere fact that the erection of a saw-mill had
been stated as an inducement in the memorial; but it is evident,
from the report of that case, that this statement was merely in the
memorial, and not repeated as "1a Consideration" by the Governor in the grant itself. In the present case it is otherwise;
this consideration appears, not merely in the memorial, but in
the grant; and besides, it is not, as Segui's was, a grant "1in
absolute property."
It is therefore submitted that the concession, if ever made,
was conditional; that tle conditions are unperformed, and, therefore, that the grant is riot valid.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The decree of the Court below confirms the title of 'the appellees to a square of five miles -of land, situated in the place
linown under the denomination of Apprecile Spring, opposite
the old store of the house of Messrs. Panton and Leslie, called
Hamlet.
The clair ,is founded' upon a concession to Robert M'Hardy,
dated the 8th November, 1814. The memorial for the grant, and
the grant are as follows:
His EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR:

Don Roberto M'Hardy, an inhabitant of this province, with
due respect represents to your excellency, that since the month

136

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v.Rodma.]

of July, 1803, when he came to it and was admitted under the
protection of his Catholic Majesty, (whom may God preserve,)
he flatters himself with having the'honour of having been selected and preferred to others of his class for holding commissions of the government, the truth of which is well known to
your excellency; and moreover, for the same reason of his fidelitV in the year 1812, when said province was invaded by some
rebellious inhabitants thereof, your petitioner was arrested by
them and detained prisoner for the space of twenty-nine days,
in consequence of which violence, he suffered the loss of all his
crop, and other damages ind losses to a great amount, which he
does not mention, as they are well known to your excellency.
In consideration of which, and your petitioner wishing to repair
in some measure his said losses, he intends to invest his means
in the erection of a water saw-mjll, in consideration of the great
scarcity of lumber in this province, both inregard to the home
consumption and to the purposes of commerce; and as it is necessary for that purpose to obtain a suitable position, as is the
place known under the denomination of Apprecile Spring, opposite the old store of the house of Messrs. Panton and Leslie,
called Hamlet, therefore your petitioner supplicates your excellency be pleased, in consideration of the merits he has obtained,
and of other circumstances in his favour, to grant him in absolute
property a square of five miles in the location designated, and
-which is vacant; which favoui he hopes to receive from the justice of your excellency.
St. Augustine, of Florida, on the eighth day of November,
one tho'usand eight hundred and fourteen.
ROBERT- MHAnDy.
DECREE.

St. Augustine, of Florida, eighth of November, one thousand
eight hundred and fourteen.
Whereas, the merits, services, and other circumstances which
the interested party exposes in this represeitation, are well
known to me, in consideration of the advantages which will result in favour of the home and foreign trade of this province,
and also in conformity to the provisions of the royal order, of the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

137

EThe United states v. Rodmam.]

twenty-ninth of October, one thousand eight hundred and ninety,
communicated to this government by the Captain General of the
Island of Cuba, and of the two Floridas, in relation to the distribution of lands to the new inhabitants, I have come to the determination of granting to the petitioner, in absolute property,
'the square of five miles of land in the designated place, without
prejudice to a better owners and for the attainment of which, let
the secretary's office issue to him a certified copy of this expedient and decree, which in all events will serve to him as a title
in form.

KINDLAN.

It is contended, on the part of the United States, that the decree
should be reverged upon three gfounds:
1. That the evidence in the case is insufficent to prove that
the alleged grant or concession was ever made.
The evidence is a certificate from Aguilar, Secretary of the
government of East Florida, the same as that to be found in
United States v. Wiggins, 14 Peters, 345, which the Court held
to be sufficient proof of the grant.
The second objection is, that if it be proved or admitted that
the grant wa§ made, still it is void; because itis not-in conformity to the royal order of the 29th October, 1790, by virtue of
which, it declared the concession was made. That royal order
will be found in 2 White's New Rec. 365. It is contended that,
under the order, grants can only be made' to"foreigners, and that
the number of acres granted must be in proportion to workers.
The argument is, professing to be made under the royal order,
if the grant is not in accordance with it, it is void; and the United
States v. Clarke, 8 Peters, 448, is cited to sustain the objec=.
tion. 'the authority has been mistaken. The Court do say
in that case, "1if the validity of the grant depends upon its being
hi onformity with the royal order of 1790; it cannot be supported." But it immediately proceeds to show, though the
royal order is recited in the grant, that it was in fact founded
upon a meritorious consideration of the petitioner having constructed a machine of great value, for sawing lumber. The
Court say: "We cannor think that the recital of a fact, entirely
immaterial, on which fact the grant does not profess to be
founded, can release an instrument making othdr-considerax 2

18

138

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States . Rodman.]

tions on which it does profess to be lounded, if the matter, as
recited, be sufficient to authbrize it. Without attempting to
assign motives for the recital of that order, we are of opinion,
that in this case the recital is quite immaterial, and does not affect
the instrument. The real question is, whether Governor Coppenger had power to make it :" and so it must be said that the
recital of the royal order in this case is quite immaterial. The
petitioner for the grant, asks for it, reciting services and fidelity
to the government in time of a rebellion; his imprisonment and
loss of property to a .great amount, in consequence of it; "all of
which," he says, "are well known to your excellency." In consideration of which, he further states, that, to repair his losses, he
intends to invest his means in the erection of a water saw-mill;
and then asks his excellency, in consideration of his merits, and
other 'circumstances, in hi's"lavour, to grant him, in absolute
property, a square of five miles, in the place designated in his
petition.
The Governor's decree, upon that petition, first recites the
merits and services of the petitioner, which he says are well known
to him; and then says, in conformity with the royal order of October, 1790, he grants him, in absolute property, the square of
five miles. Now, if it be the -fact that the Governor had the
power to make a larger grant than the quantity recited in the
royal order, which was applicable to a particular class of persons, foreigners; it will not be contended, because he says "in
conformity to the royal order," that these words shall control d
larger grant, made to one who was not a foreigner, but a subject
of his Catholic majesty: particuilarly when it is stated, the considerations of the grant, are the merits and losses of the grantee..
That the Governor had the power to make the larger grant, cannot be denied. It is to be found in the laws of the Indies, in
the various regulations under which they granted lands in
Florida, for more than forty years; sanctioned by the king of
Spain, and thd authorities representing him in Cuba, the Floridas,
and Louisiana. The power of the Governor, in this respect, has
been frequently affirmed by the decisions of this Court, in cases
growing out of claims to land under the eighth article of the
treaty with Spain.
The third objection against affirming the decree is that the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.
U United Sta

139

v.Rowmn.]

grant was made upon condition that the grantee should build a
water saw-mill on the land granted, which condition has never
been complied with; and that it was incumbent on the claimants
,to assign reasons why this condition was not performed.
A careful perusal of the memorial, will show it certainly was
not the intention of the memorialist to make the building a mill
the inducement to the grant, but his merits, services, imprisonment,
and loss of property. When too, the Governor, in the grant,
precedes his declaration of the'advantages which will result in
favour of the home and foreign trade, by an acknowledgment
of the petitioner's merits and services; it certainly cannot be inferred from the first, that it was the sole consideration which
induced the Goyernor to make it. If it be not so, then it cannot
be said that the grant would only be perfect upon the performance of a condition precedent; because another consideration or
nducement for making it is given, requiring nothing to be done
by the petitioner.- • Indeed, from these expressions of the Governor in the grant, no condition can be inferred. They are a mere
recital; and if a condition could be implied, it would be so inconsistent with an absolute grant in terms, that it could not for
a moment have any weight against it. But the objection is not
new in this Court. The point has been directly decided in
The United States v. Segui, 10 Peters, 306. The claim in that
case was founded upon a grant of sixteen thousand acres, in
consideration of services to the Spanish government, and for
erecting machinery for sawing timber. The Court say, "It has
been suggested by the Attorney General, that though there was
no express condition in the grant, one was implied from the
consideration in part being the erection of a saw-mill. But we
cannot attach any condition to a grant of absolute property, in
the whole quantity. It was exclusively for the Governor to
judge of the conditions to be imposed on his grant. He appears
to have considered the services of the appellee a sufficient consideration, and made the grant absolute."
The decree of the Court below is affirmed. But as the -Court
rejected the survey given in evidence in this case, as it should
have done; this Court will direct a survey to be made at the
place designated in the decree, for the number of acres decreed,
without prejudice to the rights of third parties.

140

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Rodman.]

- This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record

from the Superior Court for the District of East Florida, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,. it is adjudged
and decreed by this Court; that ihe decree of the said Superior
Court, in this cause, so far as it declares the claim of the petitionerg to be valid, be, and the same is hereby, affirmed in all
respects; and that a survey be made of the lands contained in
the said concession, according to the terms thereof, for the number of acres, and at the place therein designated; provided it
does not interfere with the rights of third parties. And it is further ordered by the Court, that a mandate be issued to the surveyor of public lands, directing him to do and cause to be done,
all the acts and things enjoined on him by law, and as required
by the opinion and decree of this Court in this case; ani that
this case be remanded to the said Superior Court, for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to this decree, and the
opinion of this Court, which must be annexed to the mandate.

