JANUARY TERM, 1841.

Amis v. PEARLE.
Motion by the counsel of the defendant, to docket and dismiss a case in which a writ
of error had been sued out of the Circuit Court, the plaintiff in error. having failed
to file the writ of error in the Supreme Court, and to pro.ecute the same. The
counsel for the defendant in error produced the original writ of error, signed by theclerk of the Circuit Court, and a citation signed by the judges of tho Circuit Court.
Held, that the substance of the forty-third rule of the Court was complied with;
and the case was docketed and dismissed. The production of the writ of error,
with the citation, is the highest evidence that the -iritof error has been duly sued
out and allowed. The certificate of the clerk of the Circuit Court required by the
rule, is but prima facie evidence.

ON a motion on behalf of the defendant in error, to docket
and dismiss the suit, under the forty-third rule of the Courf.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
In this case a motion has been made on behalf of the defendant in error, to docket and dismiss this*suit, under the fortythird rule of the Court. That rule allows the suit to be docketed
and dismissed, upon the production of a certificate from the
clerk of the Court below, certifying that the writ of error
had been duly sued out and allowed. In the present case no
such certificate is produced. But the original writ of .error,
(signed by the clerk of the Court below,) and also a citation
signed by the judge of the Court, is produced by the defendant
in error, and is now before us. Under these circumstances, we
are of opinion that the substance of the rnile is complied with.
The certificate of the clerk is but prima facie evidence of the
issaing and allowance of the writ of error: whereas, the production of the writ of error,, with the citation, is the highest
evidence of the fact, that the writ of error has been duly sued
out andallowed. Under these circtimstances, the Court.are of
opinion that the' motion ought to be granted. In point of fact,
this same question came before this Court, in the caseof Ward
and others v. The Commonwealth Bank of Kentucky, at Janu-

212

SUPREME COURT.
[Ami v. Pearle.]

ary term, 1838, under circumstances less cogent; and the same
decision was then made. In that case, certified copies of the
writ and citation, were filed, and not the originals; and the Court
ordered the case to be docketed and dismissed.

