JANUARY TERM, 1841.

OLIVER O'HARA

AND

OTHERS, APPELLANTS, v. THE UNITED,

STATES, APPELLEES.

A claim for land in East Florida, granted by Governor White to Daniel O'Hara,
rejected by the Superior Court of East Florida, and the decree of that Court
affirmed.
Governor White, on the petition of Daniel O'Hara, soliciting a grnt of fifteen thousand acres, made a decree granting "the lands solicited" "at the place indicated,"
"in conformity with the number iforkers which he may have to cultivate them, the
corresponding number of acres may be surveyed t9 him," "and that he will take
possession of said land in six moiths from the date of the grant." Held, that this
is a decree not granting fifteen thousand acres as asked for; but so much at the
place where it is asked for as shall be surveyed in conformity with the number of
workers the grantee may have to cultivate the land; the quantity could be determined by the regulation of the Governor, made the month after the grant, and determining the quantity of land to be surveyed according to the number of persons in
the family of the grantee, slaves included. That the grant was made before the
date of the regulation, makes no dillvrence.
No settlement was made on the anas claimed under the grant. The building of a
house on the land, is but evidence of an intention to. make a settlement, but was
not e settlement; which required the removal of persons or workers to the land, and
cultivating it.
No claim for the land can be sustained under a grant, or confirmation of a prior
grant, made by a decree of Governor Coppinger in 1819, as the same was substantially a violation of the treaty with Spain, which confirms only grants made before
the 24th January, 1819. The prior grant to O'Hara having become void by the nonperformance of the conditions annexed to it, the decree of Governor Coppinger in
1818, was an attempt to make a new grant.
If the grant were not void from the non-performance of the conditions-of settlement
annexed to it, the omission to have the land surveyed and returned to the proper
office, would make it void, unless the grantee had made a settlement; in which
event, a survey would be presumed. 9!he grant was made in the "district of Nassau," &c.; this was an indefinite description of the land ; as was held in Buyck v.
The United States, decided at this term.

ON appeal from the Superior Court of East Fliida.
In the Superior Court of East Florida, Oliver O'Hara, for
himself and for the other heirs of Daniel O'Hara, presented a
petition praying for the confirmation of a grant of fifteen thousand acres of land made by Henry White, then the Spanish

276

SUPREME COURT.
v. The United States]
[O'Hara et al.

Governor of East Florida, on the 5th of September, 1803, to
Daniel O'Hara, the father of, the petitioners; and which was
alleged to have been confirmed on the 3d of September, 1818, by
the Spanish Governor Coppinger.
The grant; and the proceedings on the same are fully stated in
the opinion of the Court.
Mr. Downing appeared as counsel for the appellants.
Mr. Gilpin, for the United States, contended:
a certificate of Tomas de AguiThe evidence of this grant is.
lar, in the form of that commented upon in the case of The
United States v.. Wigginsi 14 Peters, 345. If this document be
regarded as sufficient to establish the fact; that such a concession
was actually made by Governor White ; still there is no proof
either of possession, or survey, or citizenship of the claimant;
all of which were necessary to perfect a grant in Florida, to any
quantity of land whatever.
The memorial of the claimant to Governor White, is dated
the 3d September, 1803. He says that he has but lately become
an inhabitant of the province, and that he "intends to settle"
there. Two days afterwards he receives this grant, and on the
same day leaves the province, to which, so far as the record
shows, he never returned. Early in June, 1804, nine months
subsequent to the concession, an agent at St. Augustine writes
to him, as the record shows, urging him to " take p. ssession of
his lands" which he had not then done. On the 26th of June,
in the same year, we have the decree of the District Court of
the United States at Savannah, in an admiralty proceeding,
where the claimant is a party. This shows that the brig Chance,
being bound a regular voyage from Jamaica to South Carolina
with some negroes on board, had been captured by a French
privateer and recaptured by a British cruiser, and subsequently
ransomed by the claimant. It is alleged that these negroes were
the property of the claimant, who intended to place them on the
tract lately granted to him in Florida; but no evidence of such
intention is given; and if it existed it never was carried into
effect, although the decree of the Court of Admiralty was in his
favour A witness, Francis Marien, was produced to prove that,
soon after the grant, the claimant attempted a settlement; but it

J

IfUARY TKRM, 1841.

277

[O'Hara et aL v. The United State-]

appears from his cross examination, that he knew only, "from
geueral information, that lands weie granted to the claimant in
Ea§t Florida; that the claimant informed him he had engaged
,a carpenter; and that the carpenter told hima he was employed
for the purpose of building a house ;" there is no evidence whatever of such a house being commenced or built. From this
time, until August, 1821, after the actual cession of the Floridas,
.there is no evidence of an attempt by the claimant at settlement
and possession; in Rletter then written to him from St. Augustine it is said that "endeavours will be used to put a family on
his lands at Nassau, to begin a settlement and take possession,
which is very necessary should be done." That it was done,
then, or subsequently, is neither asserted nor proved. It is clear,.
therefore, that at'no time did the claimant occupy or settle 9n .
the land alleged to be granted to him.
. Nor.wais it ever surveyed so as to perfect the grant. The
survey, by the authorized public surveyor, was an essential
requisite to every grant under the Spanish land lw. -2.White's
New Rec. 2d0. 238. 278. ' The order of survey accompanied or
shortly followed the concession. None such is pioduced withi
this graft. Parol testimony, taken after this suit began, was
introducea to establish, if possible, a survey in 1811; but the
survey, if made, is not produced, nor is there any evidence that
it was so made by the direction of any competent authority. In
March, 1819, after the date of the treaty ceding the Floridas to the
United States, a survey was made. It is that now relied on by
the claimant. It was not only made without any authority, but
when an, order for asurvey.was solicited from Governor Coppinger, it was refused. Had the order been then granted, the
survey would have been illegal, as was ruled by this Court, in
the case of The United States v. Clarke, 8 Peters, 468; but, s6
fal from being granted, it. was explicitly refused.'
Spanish citizenship *as an indispensable requisite to the
validity of a grant. The oath of allegiance was required as a
primary cdndition. 2 White's New Ree.232.2"77. In a despatch
of Governor White' to the Marquis of Someruelos, 2 White's.
New Rec. 258. 250, he comments, in strong language, on the
course pursued by persons who came into the province, hastily
took the oath of allegiance, and immediately left it. He declares
VOL. XV.-2 A

SUPREME COURT
[O'Hara et al. v. The United States.]

such a proceeding to be an abandonment of the land granted to
them. The evidence in this case -shows such a proceeding on
the part of the claimant. In the admiralty suit at Savannah, he
declared himself to be, in June, 1804, a citizen of the United
States'. He always resided there ; never in Florida. Was not
this clearly an abandonment of any privileges he might have
obtained by a short and temporary residence in Florida in 1803?
But if the grant had bden perfected by survey and possession,
what was its character? The claimant urges that it was a grant
to him of fifteen thousand acres of land, and he asks to be
confirmed in such a grant. But what says the cnn.cession of
Governor White, on whidh he relies? It permits him to occupy
lands, at the place indicated, "until the time when, in conformity
to the number of workmen whom he may have to cultivate them,
the cbrresponding number of acres may be surveyed to him;" and
it requires that he shall "take Possession of the said land within
the term of six months from the date" of the concession. The
grant was thus conditional, altogether, on the fact of possession
within six months; the evidence is clear ihat there was-no possession whatever, at any time. But had he takeri possession,
the quantity'granted still remained conditiondl; it depended on
the number of workers, according to the regulations which'were
freely discuhsed and passed upon by this Court, in the case of
*The United States v. Wiggins, 14 Peters, 341.351. Where there
were*no workers, there could not be "a corresponding number
of acres surveyed" to the grantee. By his failure' to introduce
them,'Ihe abandoned his grant; it became "of no value or effect,
and should'be consi'dered as not made," 2 White's New Rec. 284.
The argument, that it was revived by Governor Coppinger, in
1819, cannot be maintained. If it had been so revived, it would
be subject to the original terms of settlement and cultivation by
a proportionate number of workers, which have never been
complied with to this day. Bt it was not so revived, and could
not be. When the claimant applied to Goverfdor Coppinger for
an order of survey under the original grant, the end6rsement of
the Governor was, "not .admitted." Had it been admitted, it
would have been a violation of the eighth article of the treaty,
6 Laws of United States, 618; 2 White's Nhw Ree. 210, which
declared all grants made since the 24th January, 1818, void; for

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

279

[O'Hara.et al. v. The United States.]

such an act of Governor Coppinger would have been clearly a
new grant, subsequent to that day, the former one, of 1803,
having become totally void by the conduct of the grantee himself:

Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appeal from the Superior Court of Eapt Florida.
The appellants are the heirs of" Daniel O'Hara, and they
claim the land in controversy, in virtue of an alleged grant, dated
the 5th of September, 1803.
The grant was adjudged in the Court below, not valid.
The memorial for the grant; order of Governor White, to the
commandant of engineers, to report upon it; the report of that
officer; and the decree of the Governor; are as follow:
His EXCELLENCY THE GovERNoR :

Don Daniel O'Hara, lately admitted an inhabitant of this
province, under the protection of his Catholic Majesty, with due
respect represents. to your excellency, that intending to settle in
this province with a considerable property and his large family,
after having ascertained that all, or the greatest - number of all
those who had petitioned for lands, have solicited to have. them
located in the southern district, in the vicinity of Musquito -river,
and after having consulted many neighbours in reference to 'va.
cant lands, as has no wish to enter into disagreeable litigation
with.other petitioners, or to injure them in any way, he begs of
your excellency, be -pieased-to grant him fifteen thousand acres
of land out of those lands which are vacafnt between the' rivers
St. John and St. Marys, in the place called Nassau, and in case
the .said vacant lands do not comprehend the number of acres he
solicits, he begs your excellency to have the goodness, when thd
survey will take place, to grant him the deficiency on the river
St. Marys, and he obligbtes himself .to take possession of the
said lands within the term of six months; which favour, he
doubts not, he will receive from the noble munificence of your
excellency
DANIEL O'HARA.
St. .Rugustine of Florida,third of September, one thousand
,eight hundred and three.

280

SUPREME COURT.
[O'Hara et aL. v. The United States.]
DECR az.

St. .dugustine, 3d September, 1803.
engineer inform on the subject.

Let the commandant
WHITE.

Having taken cognisance of the petition, and in obedience to
-the preceding decree, I represent to your excellency, that the
culture of the lands solicited by the petitioner does not interfere
with the defence of the province,, therefore, as far as the department of fortifications is concerned, your excellency may grant
to him the number of acres you see fit. This is all I have to
represent to your excellency, who will determine according to

your pleasure.

NICOLAS BARCELO.

St. d'ugustine of Florida,5th September, 1803.
DECREE.

St. dugustine, of Florida, 5th September, one thousan'a
eight hundred and three.
The lands solicited by the petitioner are hereby granted to him
iii the place indicated, without prejudice to a third party, and
until the time whe4, in conformity to the number-8f workers whom
he may have to cultivate them, the corresponding number of
acres may be surveyed to him; it being well understood that he
shall not claim indemnity for damages or losses in the case; that
under the apprehension of an invasion, or other motives relating
to the royal service, he'be ordered to retire in the interior of the
province-, and that he will take possession of the said land
WHITE.
within the term of six months from this date.
It will be perceved that the memorialist asks for fifteen
thousand acres, as it.is his intention, with his vast property and
numerous family, to settle in the province. He asks-for it atthe
place called Nassau, and if it cannot be found vacant there, when
the survey is made, that the deficiency may be granted on the
river St. Marys; and he obliges himself to take possession within
six months. The decree of the Governor is, the lands "solicited
by the petitioner, are hereby granted to him in the place indicated;" "in conformity to the number of workers which he may
have to cultivate them, the corresponding number of acres may
be surveyed to him" "and that he will take possession of said
land within the .term of six months from this date."

JANUIARY TERM, 1841.

281

[O'Hara et a.v. The United Se.]

It is badecree, then, not granting fifteen thousand acres as asked
for, but so much in the place where it is asked for, as-shall be
surveyed, in confbrmity to the number of workers he may have
to cultivate the land; and as to what that quantity should be,there is no uncertainty, for we have the regulation of Governor
'White, promulgated by him, the month aftei the dte of the'
decree; which states, to each head of a family of a new setler,
there shall be granted Ffty acres of land, and an equal quantity
to a single person, widow or widower, and to the children or
slaves of sixteen years of age, twenty-five acres each. This
regulation, then, determines, in that *respect, .whatthe Governor.
intended to grant; and the conclusion that the grant was to
be in conformity with the regulation, cannot be shaken by the
suggestion that the decreewas made before the date of the regulation, as it might be, if the grant had been for fifteen thousand
acres in terms. There is no grant for any quantity; when it is
found that The decree is restrained to a right to be determined by
the number of workers whici the memorialist shall have, that
the Governor had -the- power to make a grant ivith such a restriction, and that so shortly after the decree was made, as the
following-month, he promulgated a general ruI6 for grants to-new
settlers; the inference is good, until it is contiadicted by some'other
fact, or other regulation applying to newsettlers, that the memorialist was to take under the decree in his favour, as contemporary
new settlers would have to take. The meinorialist never made
a settlement. The witness, Mlarien, says, he did attempt a settlement; that a house was -buit;and that O'Hara informed.him her
had employed a carpenter to build it; but the memorialist never
took his family, nor negroes to the land. The construction of a
lhbuse was no compliance with the condition of the grant. That
act itself, could not, under the regulation, give a right to any
number of acres. The right vested upon the persons, black and
white, who might be carried to make a settlement. The house
is good evidence of an intention to settle with persons; blot if the
evidence discloses the fact, that no persons or workers were ever
taken to it; that cultivation was not begun, the inference is made
the stronger, that the rights of the memorialist under the decree
were abandoned.
The record discloses an attempt bythe memorialist, immediately
2A2

36

282

SUPREME COURT.
[O'Hara et a]. v. The United Stat..]

after the decree of the Governor, to get negroes from Tamaica
for a settlement; and that the vessel in which they were embarked, was taken into Savannah and libelled in admiralty: but
the proceedings in admiralty d6 not show that the memori.alist
.was deprived; ultimately, of the negroes; and if he was not, and
the negroes were restored, no cause is shown why they were not
taken to Florida. But if they were not restored, it will scarcely
be contended that an unfortunate attempt to carry negroes to
take possession of the land,'fulfils the intention of a grant, the
quantity of which is to depend upon the number of workers
actually employed in cultivation. But there was not only a
failure to settle in this case, there was an actuar abandonment.
We hear nothing of the memorialist, or of any attempt to settle
the land, from the spring of 1804 until 1819. There never was
a survey of any land, by authority, though one is alluded to;
until March, 1819 ; and that was made without the orde- of the
Spanish authorities in Florida. Indeed, it was done against
authority; for we find from the testimony in the cause, that
O'Hara petitioned Governor Coppinger-on the 2.0th April) 1819,
within a few months of sixteen years after GoVernor White's
decree had been given upon his memorial, for an order of survey
upon the decree, and that it was refused. We have, then, in this
fact, a denial of the memorialist's right to the land by a Governor of Florida. There can be nu doubt it was looked upon
by Governor Coppinger as abandoned; and that the right to the
same was lost under the 9th article of Governor White's regulations, already spoken of as contemporary with the decree upon
the memorial of O'Hara. 2 White's New Rec. 278. It is not necessary for us to speak of a subsequent attempt, by O'Hara, to introduce negroes into Florida, in 1819, and its failure. This right
to the land originally asked for, had ceased; he could make no
claim under the decree of September, 1803: and a revival of the
old grant by the Spanish authorities would have been substantially a violation of the treaty with Spain, wlhich only confirms
grants made before the 24th Ianuary, 1818.
. With this view of the case, we think the decree
of the Court
below should be affirmed,
But, if the right of the appellants had not been'lost by their
neglect to settle thd land with workers, we shoula say, the grant

ANUARY TERM, 1841

263

[O'Hara et aL v. The United States]

itself *as too indefinite to convey any land, unless a survey
had been made, and had been recognised by the Spanish authoriti's; or unless the grahtee had settled and occupied land under
that decree, in which event a survey might be presumed. The
memorialist asks for lands in the place called Nassau; and
'in the event of the whole quantity not being got there, for the'
deficiency to be made up on the river St. Marys. Sch a place as
the place called Nassau is noz known, unless is meant by it all
the land between-Nassau river and the St. Johns and St. Marys.
It is equidistant, or nearly so,-from those. rivers, and wends its
way to the Atlantic, in a course ot fifty or sixty miles. If the
land is to be taken on the Nassau, where shall a survey be
begun, and on what -part of the St. Marys shall the deficiency
in quantity be taken, supposing that a part can be found in the
"rplace called Nassau." The St. Marys .is known as the boundary between Florida and Georgia; and that its head; or source,
is on the Oquafanoche swamp. It is navigable for a hundred
miles from its mouth to the Atlantic, between Cumberland. and
Amelia islands. Where, then, shall a survey begin in this
range, under this decree. It is no answer to say, the decree is
for vacant land; and if there is vacant land there now, a survey
could be made; for the place where the suirvey is to'be made,
must first be made certain, if not as to fixed boundaries, at least
so certain, by evidence of general or popular apprehension, 'as
to show what was the grantor's notion of the limits of country
within which he intended to grant. Unless, then, b.survey can
be made of the original grant, in the place called Nassau, the
alternative for any deficiency on the St. Marys river cannot be
shown; which alone would entitle the memorialist to land there.
This grant is therefore void, on account of uncertainty. It is not
made,.as the Court said in the case of Buyck v. United States,
decided at this term, in such a way as to distinguish it from
things of a like kind; nor has the identity of the grant been
shown by extraneous evidence.
The judgment of the Court is affirmed.

