JANUARY TERM, 1841

ARCHIBALD K. SMITH, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

v.

AL.RED CLAPP,

DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
By a statte of Alabama, it is enacted that every joint promissory note shall be deemed
and construed to have the same effect in law as a joint and several promissory note;
and whenever a writ shall issue against any two or more joint and several drawers
of a promissory note, it shall be lawful, at any time after the return of the writ, to
discontinue such action against any one or more of the defendants, on whom the writ
shall not have been executed; and to proceed to judgment against the others.
This statute converts a joint into a several piJomise; and enables the holder to maintain
an actidn against any one of the makers.
A defendant having appeared and pleaded to the action, and at the trial having withdrawn his plea, the Supreme Court cannot take notice of any matter of abatementin
the writ or declaration. Where the Writ had stated both of the defendants to be citizens of another state than that of which the plaintiff was a citizen, and one of the
defendants has been returned not found by the marshal, under the laws of Alabama,
it is fiot necessary, in the declaration, to aver the citizenship of the absent defendant.
ty the statutes of Alabama, promissory notes may be ssigned by endorsement; and
the assignei may maintain an action in his own name on such notes. By the act
of 1833, the same rights are given to the holder of notes given to a certain person or
bearer, to a fictitious person, or to bearer only; and the assignment of such notes by
delivery only, authorizes a suit by the holder in his own name. The h~llder of a note
payable to A. B. or bearer, may, to avail himself of these provisions of the law, call
himself an assignee of the note from A. B.; but the holder ofsuch a note payable to
the bearer, is not an assignee within the provisions of the judiciary act of 1789.
If any error exists in the calculation of interest in a judgment on a note, on which suit
has been brought, the Court before whom the suit was brought, may, by the laws.
of Alabama, correct the error,

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama.
This suit was instituted in the Circuit Court by the defendant
in error, against Archibald K. Smith, the plaintiff, andNeil Munn,
&s the makers of a promissory note, payable to John Barge or
bearer. The note was signed by A. K. Smith and Neil Munn.
The writ of capias, by which the action was brought, stated
Archibald K. Smith and Neil MImn to be citizens of the state
of Alabama; and that Alfred Clapp was a citizen of the state of
New York.
The marshal returned, "Executed the writ on A. K. Clapp,

1126

SUPREME COURT.
(Smith V.CIapp.]

Neil Munn not found." The declaration vWas filed against A.
K. Smith, and stated that Neil Murn was not found.
A judgment was rendered against A. K. Smith, by the CircuitCourt, and this writ of error was prosecuted by him.
The case was argued by Mr. Key, for the plaintiff; and by Mr.
Test, for the defendant.
For the plaintiff it was contended,
1. That Barge, the payee, (through whom, as assignee, tne
plaintiff below claimed,) not being shown competent to sue in
the Circuit Court, the IIth section of the judiciary act prohibited
the plaintiff from suing in that Court.
2. The judgment is for more than the amount of the note and
interest.
Mr. Key contended that it was necessary. to aver that John
Barge, to whom the note was given, was not a citizen of Alabama. If this is not done, the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction
of the cause. Cited, 3 Dall. 382. 4 Dall. 8. 4 Cranch, 46. 9
Wheat. 537.
The plaintiff must show that he claims through John Bargera
citizen of another state, or he cannot sue. The not6 is drawn to
John Barge or bearer. The suit is brought, as the assignee of
Barge.
There is another objection. It should have been averred that
Neil Munn., who was not taken by the marshal, was not a citizen
of Alabama. It is not sufcient that the citizenship is stated *in
the writ; it should be averred in the declaration, so that it could
have been denied in the pleadings. 8 Peters, 148.
It is insisted that the judginent is for more than the amount
of the note and interest ; and this is error.
Mr. Test, for the defendant in error, said, as to the first error
assigned, thatthe note was payable to Barge or bearer, and was
assigned to Clapp. who appears to be competent to sue in the Circuit Court; and it was not necessary to show that Barge was
competent. See Bullard v. Bell, 1 Mason's Reports, 251. Bank
of Kentucky v. Wistar, 2 Peters, 318.
As to the second erroi. It is a matter of fact, and,a mere
clerical error, which the defendant ought'to have moved the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

127

[Smith v. Clapp.]
Court below to correct. It is not admitted that the error exists.
The interest in Alabama, as allowed by statute, is eight per cent.
This case was brought merely for the purpose of delay; and
defendant prays to be allowed the ten per cent. damages.
Mr. Justice M'KLEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Cofirr for the Southern
district of Alabama. The defendant in error, who was plaintiff
in the Court below, sued out a capias ad respondendum against

the plaintiff in error, and one Neill Munn, directed to the marshal
of the district; who returned that he had executed it upon
Smith, and that Munn was not found. Whereupon, the plaintiff
discontinued the suit against Munn, and filed his declaration,
and proceeded to judgment against Smith. When the cause was
called for trial, Smith withdrew his plea, previously filed, and
suffered judgment to pass against him by nil dicit.
To reverse this judgment, the plaintiff in error relies .pon the
following grounds: First, There is no averment in the declara-tion that oMunn was a citizen of Alabama. Second, It is not
shown that John Barge, to whom the note was payable., was
competent, under the eleventh section of the judiciary act of
1789, to maintain a suit in his own name; Third, The judgment
is for more than the amount of the note and interest.
The first objection proceeds on. the ground that the note ana
action being joint, the Court could not entertain jurisdiction of
one defendant, unless it were shown that the other was also a
citizen of Alabama. By a statute of Alabama, it is enacted that
every joint promissory note shall be deemed and construed to have
the same effect, in law, as a joint and several promissory note.
And whenever a writ shall issue against any two or more, joint,
or joint and several drawers of a promissory note, it shall be
lawful at any time, after the return of the writ, to discontinue
such actionagainst any one or more of the defendants on whom
the writ shall not have been executed; and to proceed to judgment against the others. Akins' Digest, 267, 268.
This statute converts a joint into a several promisspry note;
and enables the holder to maintain an action against any one or
more of the makers. No doubt can be entertained, therefore,
of the right of the plaintiff to have maintained the suit against

128

SUPREME COURT.
[Smith V.Clapp.]

Smith alone. And the joint actioii having been severed, according to.the statute, by the. return of the marshal, there can be as
little doubt of 4iis right to proceed against Smith, as though
Munn had nd%been named in the writ. In the writ it was
stated *thatboth Smith and Munn were citizens of-tAlabama, and
had te writ been served on both, the plaintiff might have declared against both, without averring their citizenship ; and unless
the defendants had pleaded the variance between the writ and
declaration, in abatement, he could not afterwards takiradvantage of it, in arrest -of judgment; nor assign it for error. *The
defendant, Smith, having_ appeared, and pleaded to the action,
and at the trial having withdrawn his plea, this Court "can take
no notice of any matter of abatement in the writ, or declaration.
Alid, therefore, if it had been necessay to aver the citizenship
of Munn,-who could no longer be considered a party to the suit,
the fact of his being a citizen of the state of Alabama, appearing in-the writ is sufficient for all purposes of jurisdiction in this
Court. Bradstreet v. Thomas, 12 Peters, 60.
\\The only question arising under the second ground of objection is, whether the assignment of the note was by endorsement,
or by delivery; and this depends entirely upon the, statute law
of Alabama. By the act of 1812, all bonds, obligations, bills,
single, and promissory notes may be assigned by endorsement;
and the assignee may maintain a suit thereon in his own name.
Akins' Digest, 328, sect. 6. This section contains other provisions which are not material to this case. By the act of 1833,
all the provisions of the above recited section are extended to
promissory notes made payable to a certain person, or bearer, to
a fictitious person.or bearer, or to a bearer only; but it is provided,-that nothing therein contained shall prevent the assignment of such note by delivery merely, so as to authorize the
assignee to sue in his own name. Akins' Digest, 330, see. 18.
The avernient in the declaration is, that the said John Barge,
to whom, or to the bearer of said promissory note, payment of
the said sum of moniey, therein specified, Was to be made, after
the making of the said promissory note, and before the payment
of the said sum of money therein specified to wit, on the 1st
day of December, 1836, at the Southern district of Alabama,
aforesaid, duly assigned over and delivered the said promissory

JANUARY', TERM, 1841.

129

[Smith v.Clapp.]
note to the said plaintiff, who then and there became bearer and
was and still is the bearer thereof, and entitled to demand and
receive said sum of money, &c. It is obvious that this assignment was by delivery merely, and not by endorsement, which
must be in writing. The intention of the averment is to show
that the. plaintiff was within the proviso of the act, and had a
right to sue in his own name. It is clear that he sues it thecharacter of bearer of the'note; and consequently he is not an
assignee within the meaning of the -eleventh section of the judiciary act of 1789. Bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky v.
Wistar, 2 Peters, 318.
If any mistake occurred in the -Court below, in calculating
the interest due. on the note, that is a proper subject of Correction. in that Court. By a statute of Alabama, the Court of
original jurisdiction may correct any clerical error or misprision
in the calculation of interest, or other mistake of the clerk, at any
time within three years from the rendition of the judginent.
Akins' Digest, 266. The note in this case is no part of the
record; this Court cannot judicially know, therefore, When the
interest commenced running: the third ground relied on by the
plaintiff here, ought, therefore, to have been brought before the
Court below, and may yet be brought before it; and if it shall
there appear that any mistake has been made, it can be corrected.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.

