JANUARY TERM, 1841.

PHILIP MINIS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v.

429

THE UNITED STATES,

DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

Dr. Minis, a surgeon in the seryice of the aimy of the United States, was *appointed
a military'disbursing agent for removing and subsisting the Cherokee Indians. , He
charged two and a half per cent. on the sum of five hundred and fourteen thousand
two hundred and thirty-seven dollars actually disbursed by him in the course of his
agency in 1836, 1837. The chargewas rejected at the Treasury, on the authority
of a clause in-the a4 of Congress of March 3, 1835, ch. 303. It was contended by
the plaintiff in error, 1.That this act of Congress did not apply to the case. 2. That
from the long established practice of the government, as well as from the,established
law of the land, he was entitled to commissions, there being no law pridr to 1839
disallowing commissions on moneys qisbursed for the government. 3. That the
charge of commissions should be allowed, because the charge is made on disbursements
of moneys appropriated during the session of Crongress of 1836, 1837, and therefore
neither the act of 1835, or 1839 were applicable to the claim. Held, that-the claim
is tiot supported by the laws of the United States; and that no cdipmissions are
chargeable'to the United States on the moneys disbursed by the agent of the United
States for removing and subsisting the Cherokee Indians. The case falls dikectly
within the act of 30th June, 1834, ch. 162, for organizing the Indian Department.
This act authorizes the President of the United States to require any military officer
of the United States to execute the duties of Indian agent; and prohibits any other
compensation for their services, other than an allowance for actual travellink
expenses.
In the act of Congress of 3d March, 1835, ub. 303, entitled an act thaking certain
additional appropriations for the Delaware Breakwater, &c., a proviso is introduced,
"Provided that no officer of the army shall receive any per cent. or additional pay,
extra allowance or compensation, in any form whatsoever, on account of disbursing
any public money appropriated'by law, during the present session, for fortifications,
&c., or for any other service or duty whatsoever, unless authorized by law." Held,
that this proViso applied only to the appropriations made for military purposes by that
act, and to any which might be made during.that session of Congress; and was not
a general permanent regulation, applicable to all cases of expenditures for the militar
purposes of the UniteAt Stat s, under'the provisions of acts of Congress. It would
be somewhat novel to find engrafted upon an act making special and temporary
appropriations, any proviso which was to have a general and permanent application
to all future appropriations. Nor ought such an intentidn on the part of the legislature to be presumed, unless it is expressed in the most clear and positive terms,
adnd where the language admiti of no other reasonable interpretation.
The-office of a proviso, generally, is either to except something from the enacting
clause, or to qualify or restrain its generality, or to exclude some possible grotind of
misinterpretation of its extending to cases not intended by the legislature to be brought
within its purview.

SUPREME COURT.
MiUnis v. The United States.]
The money appropriated to the payment of the Cherokee Indians, upon their removal,
and the cession of their land, was properly public money; and the disbursements
thereof were on account of the United States, and for their benefit, in fulfilment of
the obligations of the treaty.

I error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Georgia.
The United States, at August term, 1838, presented a petition
to the District Judge of the District Court of the District of Georgia,
stating that Philip Minis was indebted to the United States in
the sum of thirteen thousand five hundred and eighty-nine dollars and five cents, exclusive of interest, for money lent, money
paid by the United St%tes for the use of the defendant, and for
money had, and received, and found due by him to the United
States.
The claim of the United States was 6n a Treasury transcript,
duly certified, of the account of the United States with the defendant, Philip Minis,.surgeon and military district agent, dated
January 15th, 1838, showing- the amount claimed to be due
by hiln to the United Stats. Against this demand, the defendant claimed certain allowamis
which had been submitted to the Treasuny, among which was a
charge of two and a half per cent, commissions for disbursing
fivehundred arnd fourteen thousand two hundred and thirty-seven
dollars and sixty-one cents, the same sum having been paid by
him as the agent'6f the United States for removing and subsisting
the Cherokee Indians. This was disallowed at the Treasury of
the United States, under the act of -3d of March, 1835, which
prohibits the allowance of any per cent. or additional pay in any
form, on account of disbursing any public money, unless authorized by law.
On the trial of the cause, the counsel for the defendant prayed
the Court to give the following instructions to the jury.
1st. That the clause in the act of Congress of the 3d March,
1835., and which is relied upon as the. authority by which the
defendant's dlaim for commissions was rejected, does not apply
to defendant's case; because it expressly refers to moneys approriated during that session of Congress, and, therefore, the Second
Auditor erred in disallowing the charge for commissions.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

495

[Minis v. The United 8tes.]

2d. That Dr. Minis was entitled to the commissions charged
by him, as well from the long established practice of the government, as from the lav of the land; there being no law' prior to
the 3d March, 1839, disallowing commissions on moneys disbursed for the government.
3d. That the charge for commissions should be allowed because the charge is made for the disbursement of moneys appropriated during the session of 1836 and 1837, and, therefore,
neither the act of 1835 hot of 1839, is applicable.
4th. 'That the amount of West's account should have been
allowed as a credit to Dr. Minis, lecause the same was paid'in
good faith by him; and that.the United States should not discredit the act of their own agent.
th. That as Dr. Minis's duty was to pay money upon the
requisitions of the Superintendent and Commissioners,' he was
fully authorized to pay West's account to any one who had possession of the account thus passed and certified to by the Superintendent; and that this case was still stronger, because John W.
West was the acknowledged attorney of.Jacob West, and had
before received money from Doctor Minis as disbursing agent.
Which instructions the Court refuse'd to. give, but instructed
the jury, ",that in the relation which the defendant had 'stood to
the United States as an officer in the army, he hdd no claim by
law for commissions on the sum disbursed by him, whatever
interpretation might be given to the concluding proviso of the
act of the -3d March, 1835 ; and admitting that such proviso was
limited to a prohibition of per cent. additional pay, extra allowance or compensation, on account of disbursing any public money
appropriated by law during the session of Congress when the act
was passed containing the proviso, that said pro-viso could not
be interpreted to give commissions or per cent. upon disbursements of antecedent or subsequent appropriations of money by
Congress, unless the same were authorized by law; and that no
law authorized the defendant to 'charge commissions; and, therefore, that the Second Auditor had not erred in disallowing commissions to the defendant."
The defendant excepted to the opinion of the Court; and a
verdict and judgment having been rendered for the United
States, the defendant prosecuted this writ of error.
54

426

SUPREME COURT.
[Minis v. The United States.]

The case was presented by Mr. Coxe and Mr. Jones, for
the plaintiff in error, on a written argumc it; and was argued at
the bar by Mr. Gilpin, Attorney General, for the United States.
Mr. Coxe, and Mr. Jones, for the plaintiff 'n error.
This action was originally instituted in the District Court,
where issue was joined; and in August, 1839, on the application
of the Attorney for the United States, it was suggested that the
District Judge, having been of. counsel for defendant, it was
ordered that such fact be entered on the records of the Court, and
that an authenticated copy of the same, with all the proceedings
the action, be certified to the Circuit Court.
in Whether
this was done, does not appear; or whether
there
was any action, or order in the Circuit Court assuming jirisdiction ; but the next proceeding is in the Circuit Court, vL:.: the
swearing of the jury.
The accbunt filed with the declaration exhibits the items in
controversy'. Among the items, is one for commissions of two
and a half per cent., for disbursing tht sum of five hundred and
fourteen thousand two hundred and thirty-seven dollars and
sixty-four cents, which was claimed by the plaintiff in error, and
disallowed by the Auditor, under a construction given by him,
to the act of 3d March, 1835.
The record is Very imperfectly prepared. It is, howeyer, understood, that the"Treasury account was the only evidence given
by the plaintiffs, in the Circuit Court, and that the real question
in contest, was the propriety of the claim for the commissions
charged.
The Auditor places his rejection of the claim upon the single
ground that the a-t of 1836 prohibits such allowance.
The learned judge who tried the case puts it on the more
generalground, that, whatever, interpretation might be given to
that act, yet it was clear that 'it could not be construed to give
commissions, &c., upon disbursements, and that there was no
law authorizing the defendant to charge commissions; and, therefore, that the Auditor had .ot erred in disallowing them.
The conclusion, therefore, to which the Court arrived was,
that the judgment of the Auditor was right.
The facts of the case are very imperfectly tated in the record;

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

427

[Minis v.The United States.)

but the learned judge who tried the case, and the Attorney
General, will be. able to cbrrect any error in the statement,
which, in general, will be found corroborated by the record.
The plaintiff in error, was a surgeon in the army of the United
States, and as such was directed to aid in the removing of the
'Cherokee Indians, from their country to the new country assigned them beyond the Mississippi. While thus engaged, he was
called upon, by the government, to disburse in the years 1836,
and 1837, large sums of money in fulfilling the stipulations of the
treaty of New Echota, of the 29th of December, 1835. This
duty he faithfully performed, from the 15th of October, 1836,
till the 25th of July, 1837. 'These facts appear from the government accounts. The same accounts show that the amolnt
was five hundred and fourteen thousand three hundred and
seyenteen dollars and sixty-one cents, .less the balance of
fifteen thousand five hundred and thirty-six dollars and eighteen
cents, say four hundred and ninety-eight' thousand seven hundred
and eighty-qne dollars and forty-three cents..
It is obvious, that this duty was foreign to his duty as surgeon in the army, and if any question of fact be raised upon
the evidence as exhibited on the record, it may be remarked
that all the facts upon which the allowance is claiined are clearly set forth, while the fact of his being a surgeon is only matter
of inference. That he disbursed the money is shown; that he
was at the time, an officer in the service' of the government, is
not distinctly apparent anywhere; ilthough it -would be- con.
ceded that such was the case, provided the government will,
on its part, concede the other facts which constitute the foundation of the claim, and the truth of which may be verified Wt th(

public records.
Upon this state of the law, these questions. arise:
1. Whether the acts of Congress of the' 3d'of March, 1835, applies to this case, and forbids the allowance?
2. Whether, independent of that statute, such a claim can bd

allowed?
I. The proviso attached to the act of March 3d, 1835, c. 303,
(9 Laws of United States, 207, 208,) declared that "no officer
of the army shall receive any per cent.; extra allowance, oi
corhpensation, ip any form whatever, or -account of the disburs-

428

SUPIEME COURT.
[Minis v. The United States.]

ing any public money appropriated by law, during the present
session," &c.
1. It may be remarked in regard to this act, that the money
disbursed by Dr. Minis, cannot," with propriety, be termed public
money. It did not belong to the United States, nor was the
service one rendered to the government. It was part of the
fund stipulated by treaty to be paid to the Cherokee Indians, for
the cession of their territory by the treaty of 1835. The disbursement was made on account of the Cherokees, and with all
other expenses attending the removal of the Indians, was to be
charged to that fund. It is, therefore, analogous to a case in
which a public officer has rendered a service to a third party, not
necessarily connected with his public duty, as salvage by an
officer of the government; can the payment for this service be
rejected because of the office the individual held? See thr
case of the Tigre, decided by Judge Washington. Wash. C.
C. R. 2.
2. This proviso was well considered, in the cate of The United
States v. Gratiot. The terms of the act, by their own force,
are limited to appropriations made' during the then session of
Congress.
II. Whether upon general principles, independent of the act
of 1835, can such allowance be made?
This question may also be regarded as comprehended in the
argument of Gratiot's ease. There are, however, some points
of distinction.
In that case, it was urged on behalf of the governmeIt, that
the services for which compensation was asked, were not extra
but strictly withifi the line of official duty. Upon this ground,
the various cases in which compensation was made for services
rendered in relation to Indian matters, were distinguished from
the case at bar. The allowances to General Scott, Governor
Cass, Colonel Abert, were vindicated upon this ground.
This distinction is even more clear in the present case. There
is not the remotest resemblance between the professional duties
of a surgeon, and those of disbursing military agent. They are
wholly foreign to each other. The accounts in this case describe the defendant as surgeon, but the account is against him
as military disbursing agent, and the iteris of claim are for

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

429

[Minis v. The United States.]

money placed iii his hands, in this capacity. In fact, his accounts as an officer in the army are properly settled in the Third
Auditor's Office; the disbursements on Indian accounts, in another department of the Treasury. The nature and character
of the duties then, are wholly distinct; the funds out of which
payment is made, are equally so; and the accounts are settled in
different departments, and by different office6rs of the Treasury:
no case can be more clearly, one of extra official duty, or performance.
In cases where the distinction was far less obvious, the usage
of the government to pay a quantum meruit for extra services,
has been fully recognised. A reference is made to the cases of
Fillebrown, M'Daniel, and Ripley, in 7 Peters. This usage
having been judicially established, need not be again proved by
evidence, but will be judicially recognised and acted upon.
7 Cranch, 506. 9 Wheat. 581. 1 Peters' C. C. R. 225.
The act of June 30, 1834, c. 162, (9 Laws United States, 137,
&c.,) has been cited by the Attorney General. A reference to.
this act will show that it had no othr-,r agents in view than those
designated by the act as Indian agents, and that neither the 4th,
the 10th, nor the 13th sections have any application to the case
at bar.
As to the peculiar hardship of this case, it is unnecessary to
speak. The disbursements were made in the Indian country, &nd
while attending the Cherokees across the Mississippi. No places
of deposit existed; no military escort was furnished; payments
made in small sums; ,and the party compelled to preserve them
all at his own risk, the responsibility was heavy, and the duties
onerous in the extreme. They have been faithfully performed,
and the compensation asked would still leave the claimant a loser
by the operation.
Mr. Gilpiny for the United States.
This was an action of assumpsit instituted in the Circuit Court
of Georgia, by the United States, against Philip Minis, to recaver
thirteen thousand five hundred and eighty-nine dollars, and five
cents. The defendant pleaded the general issue, and, at the trial
of the cause, produced Captain John Mackay, of the United
States army, as a witness, who gave evidence that he had been

430

SUPREME COURT.
Einw v. The United State&]

imthe Cherokee country about the same time with the defendant;
that he had been allowed for fuel and quarters, and that such
charges were usual; and that it was also usual to allow officers,
whose accounts were large, their travelling expenses in going to,
Washington to'settle them. The'record then proceeds to say:
"Whereupon the said counsel for the defendant did then and
there pray the judge of the said Court to give the following instructions to the jury." The instructions asked, are then set
forth, and, in substance, declare, that the defendant is nbt debarred of his claim to commissions on disbursements whidh he made,
by reason of the proviso of the act of 3d March, 1835, the same
not being applicable to his case; that he is entitled to them from,
long established practice of the government, there being no law
before 3d of March, 1839, disallowing them.
The Corot refused to give these instructions, but did instruct

the jury, in effect, that the defendant, being an officer of the
army, had no.claim bylaw to such commissions, whatever might
be the construction of the proviso of the act of 1835, because the
same were not authorized by any law. To these instructions the
defendant excepted, and the jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs,'for eleven thousand four hundred and sixty-one -dollars, and
fifty-six cents, and judgment was entered therefor. Ahnexed to
the record is a Treasury transcript of the account between the
plaifitiffs and defendant. It is not referred to in the record, nor
is it stated to have been given in evidence. It appears to have
been filed with the declaration or plea.
Will this Court, upon this record, reve'se this judgment? If
there is grpund so to do, it must be in the charge of tha Coutt
on the points excepted to.
1. To this it is answered, in the first place, that the bill ot exceptions is totally defective in not presenting a statement of theevidence to which the charge of the judge referred. A bill.of
exceptions is a privilege by which a party subjects the opinions
of the judge to re-examination, at his own pleasure; it is necessary, therefore, that all which relates to, or bears upon that
opinion should be carefully set forth. Without tlhat the Court.
which revises has not the same case before them. It cannot
tell ,whether the instruction given or refused, or the decision
made, was warranted or not. This rule, so apparent to common

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

431

[Minis v.The Unitea Stam]
sense and justice, is abundantly fortified by judicial decisions.
Buller's N. P. 317. 2 Tidd's Practice, 912. Brownl. 129.
1 Lutw. 905. 1 Salk. 284. 3 Durn. and East, 27. Does this
bill of exceptions comply with any of these requisites? Is there
any thing in it which will enable this Court to say that the charge
of the judge was .wrong? It shows that the judge was asked
to say that a certain act of Congress did n6t "apply to the defendant's case." What case? the money received by him; or
the promise to pay, as set forth in the declaration; or the allowance for fuel and travelling expenses? These are the. only points
of the case which the record exhibits, yet they are manifestly
,not those to which the charge relates. Is it said that all this
appears in the Treasury iranscript, which isfound among the
pNapers before the Court? That cannot be; there is no evidence,
nor even any allegation that this paper was before the jury;
none that it was offered ; if offered, whether rejected or received ;
if received, whether it stood alone, or was contradicted or corroborated; it is now before us as a paper filed among the documenfs relating to the case, farther than that we know nothing
of it. Is it possible that we can take for granted that the charge
of the Court related to this paper and no other? Are we to
admit thai the exception taken related to certain commissions in
this transcript? To pass upon the charges anti decisions of
Couits in this way would leave them at the mercy of the party
thus preparing his bill of exceptions. It is not contended that
it is necessary to set out the whole evidence---even that relating
to the instructions-at large.: but it is necessary that the evidence referred to should, be distinctly stated, so far as it bea-s
upon them.
2. This objection is the more fatal in this instance, because the
sufficiency of the defence, even had the instruction been givef
as prayed for, depended upon evidence of the defendant having
complied with the requisitions of the act of Congress by presenting his claim or offset at the Treasury, and its having been
there allowed or disallowed. This fact must appear beforie it'
can be said whether the charge of the Court was incorrect or
not; yet it does not appear; it is not stated in the bill of excep-:
tions; if we suppose the Treasury transcript to be part of the
bill of exceptions, it then even does not very clearly appear; but

432

SUPREME COURT.
[Mir"s v. The United States.J

if that document be not a part of it, then there is nothing whatever to show that the defendant had a right to ask from the
Court the instructions that he did. In no case whatever in
which this Court has passed upon the legality of a claim of an
officer to credits as a set-off, has he failed to make it appear by
the record that the claim had been duly presented and disallowed. "Had the claim," say this Court in the case of The United
States v. M'Daniel, 7 Peters, 11, "never been presented to the
department for allowance, it would not have been adrmitted as
evidence by the Court:" and in the case of The United States
V. Fillebrown, 7 Peters, 48, they say "the claim must have
been presented to the proper officers and disallowed." The
defendant prays the Court to charge that he is not to be debarred
by an act of Congress from'certain commissions,'and the Court
refused to do so; he must show by evidence, or state distinctly
in his bill of exceptions, what the commissions were; and he'
must show or state, in the same manner, that he had complied
with the law which authorized their allowance. Not having
done this, the refusal of the Court to give the instructions cannot
be treated as an error.
3. But the bill of exceptions is still more defective in another
point. It excepts to the judge not having charged the jury that
the defendant was entitled to certain commissions, on the ground
of "long established practice of the government ;" and yet
neither the bill of exceptions, nor any part of the record, contains any evidence of such practice; or any averment that such
evidence was offered to the jury; or any assertion that such a
practice, in the case of a public officer such as the defendant
was, ever did exist. Evidence of a usage is indqed given, and
is set out in the bill of exceptions; but it is usage to Alow fuel,
quarters, and travelling expenses, not commissions on disbursements. Even the Treasury transcript, if a part of the record,
throws no light upon this point: How then can this Court say
that the Court below erred in refusing to charge the jury that a
certain claim to commissions was authorized by "long established
practice," when it does not appear that one, particle of evidence
of such practice was offered? The prayer is not to instruct the
jury that "if they believed such practice existed they should
allow the claim ;" but it is to instruct the jury that "the defend-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

433

[Minis v. The United States]

ant was entitled to it from long established pra..tice." There
have been numerous cases where this Court has been called on
to review the decisions of Courts below in allowing or rejecting
evidence of usage, and their opinions on the weight to be given
to usages that have been proved; but in every such case it has
been made to appear to this Court that proof of the usage was
submitted. Unless a usage be so certain, uniform, and notorious
as to be understood and known by both parties, it cannot enter
into their contract, even where not forbidden by law i and therefore in every case of extra allowance that has been brought before this Court, it has appeared that evidence of its being so, was
offered in the trial below. The total omission of all such evidence in this bill of exceptions, and the. want of any averment
on the subject, preclude this Court from saying that the judge
erred in refusing to give the charge prayed for.
On these grounds it is submitted that the judgment ought not
to be reversed. The bill of exceptions is totally defectiv6, not
in form merely, but in substance. To say tliat the Court erred,
upon such a statement of its proceedings, would be to pass a,
judgment, not upon what we have before us, but. upon what
the imagination of counsel can extract by their own interpretation of this record. That the commissions referred to in the bill
of exceptions, may be the commissions stated in the Treasury
transcript annexed to the papers, and that the "long established
practice" may be a practice to allow surgeons two and a half
per cent. comthission on disbursements made by them under special orders of the Witr Department, cannot be denied; but this
possibility is not suffleient. They may as well relate to other
commissions and to other usages; and we cannot assume that
they are exactly those which it is necessary they should be, to
sustain the defendant's argunfent against this judgment.
4. Passing, however, from this defcct in the record, and admitting, for the sake of argument, that it appcars clearly, by the
bill of exceptions, that the defendant below, who was a6i officer
in the army, did disburse a considerable sum of money, as a disbursing agent, by the authority, and under the orders of the War
Department, in the year 1836, the question remains, is he entitled
to an allowance of two and a half per cent., in addition to his
pay, as a compensation for so doing? Tho Court below have
VOL. XV.-2 0
55

434

SUPREME COURT.
[Minis v. The United State&I

decided that he is not so entitled by the laws of the land; and
the correctness of that decision we are now to examine.
The defendant below was a surgeon in the army, and, on the
.16th of October, 1836, was detailed to act as an agent for the
removal of the Cherokees, under the act of 2d July, 18.36, (9 Laws
of tinited States, 453,) with an allowance, in addition to his pay,
of five dollars a day, for such travelling expenses. as he might
incur. The duty to which'he was thus assigned, Was one which
the Secretary of War was authorized to assign him. On the
establishment of the War Department, as long since as 1789, all
duties connected with Indian affairs, were specially referred,
subject to the directions of the President, to the Secretary of
War, Since then they have always'remained under his charge.
In 1830, by the act of 28th of May, (4 Story's Laws, 2204,) the
system of removing the Indians beyond the Mississippi was introduced, and the President was authorized to furnish aid and
assistance to the emigrating Indians. On the 9th of July, 1832,
(4 Story's Laws, 2305,) on the reorganization of the Office of Indian Affairs, it was again expressly provided that the management
of all matters arising out of Indian relations should be under the
direction of the Secretary of War. On the qoth of June, 1834,
a further act (4 Story's Laws, 2401) was passed relative to Indian relations. In that act, the Indian agents were expressly
charged with the duties of managing and superintending the
intercourse with the Indians; and they were directed to obey
the instructions given to them by the Secretary of War, the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs, or the Superintendent of Indian
Affairs, and to carry into effect such regllations as might be
prescribed by the President. The shme act provided that it
should be competent for the President to require any military
officer of the United States to execute the duties of an Indian
agent; and it then went on to .declare that the duties required
by any section of the act, from military officers, should. be performed withdut any'other compensation that their actual travelling expenses. On the 29th of December, 1835, the final treaty
of removal, was made by the Cherokees, (9 Laws of United
States, 1351,) which provided that, until their removal, (whichwas to be in two years,) they were to receive from the United
States provision and clothing, and that they were then to be.

JANUARY TERM, i841.

435

[Minis v. The United Stites.]

removed to their new homes; and subsisted there for one year.
On the ist of March, 1836, a supplementary treaty was made,
(9 Laws of United States, 1356,) by the third article of which it
was agreed that the sum of six hundred thousand dollars should
be applied by the United States, for the expenses of removal,
and distributed as the treaty provided. On the 3d of March,
1836, the general appropriation bill, (9 Laws of United States,
453,) for the expenses of the Indian intercourse, was passed;
which contained a clause appropriating "for the removal of the
Cherokees and for spoliations, according to the third article of
the supplementary treaty of 1st March, 1836, six hundred thousand dollars." On the 16th of October, i836, the defendant, an
officer of the army, was charged with performing this duty; and
was engaged in it, from the 16th of October, 1836, to the 95th
of July, 1837, a period of two hundred and eighty-fiVe days.
He received his pay asan officer for the same period, and, in
addition, an allowance of five. dollars per diem, for travelling
expenses, throughout the entire period. That the duty in question was clearly one which the defendant was bound to perform,
as an officer in the army, seens too clear to.admit of question;
that for performing the duty he, was limited to the compensation
he received, seems also to be established by the laws already
referred to. He was a military officer, charged with special and
temporary duties, as an Indian agent, which were, in all probability, among the very acts which the law of 1834 was intended to
embrace, as those to be confided by the President to army officers. If, therefore, we were to go no further, we might confidently assert that the decision of the Court below, iij declring
that "the defendant, as an officer of tho army, had iro claim, by
law, for commissions on the sum disbursed by him,", isclearly
warranted by the. letter and intention of the acts of -Congress,,
which apply directly to his case.
But these are not the only laws which preclude the claim of
the defendant. He is an officer of the army, and, as such, he
is debarred from charging commissions on the moneys disbursed.
The s'ettled policy of the law has been to prevent officers of the
army from receiving commissions, and to give them a regular
sum for disbursing the public funds. By the act of the 24th of
April, 1816, (3 Story's Laws, 1575,) the President was author-

SUPREME COURT.
[Minis v. The United States.]

-ized to employ subaltern officers of the regular army, as paymasters, but their compensation was limited expressly to the pay
and emoluments of a major. So, by the act of the 2d of March,
1821, (3 Story's Laws, 1810,) the assistant commissaries, by
whom large disburscments for purchases were to be niade,.are
to be taken from the subalterns of the lihe' and their compensation is merely to be an addition, while so employed, of twenty
dollars per month, to their pay in the line. So, by the same act,
(3 Story's Laws, 1810,) the assistant quartermasters, who are
charged with immense disbursements, are officers taken from the
line, and receive as their compensation, a monthly addition
of.twenty dollars to their pay. And all tiese offlicers, thus
charged with vast and most responsible duties, additional entirely to the regular duties of officers, are obliged t6 give bonds in
considerable sums. These laws, which embrace all the duties as
disbursing officers, that could be delegated to these great divisions 9 f the military service, and extend to several millions of
dollars a year, thus contemplate, as will be seen, the employment
of officers taken from their immediate service in the line. So far
from allowing them commissions, they confine their compensation to their pay, and a small additional allowance, less considerably than that which was received by the defendant in this
instance. The assignment of Indian duties has arisen under the
peculiar circumstances of the removal of the Indians within the
last few years; but disbursements for it differ in no respect from
those .of the Quartermasters' department; they are, in fact, a
branch of the duties of that department. To suppose, then, that
,an officer taken from the army to disburse provisions and money,
and to superintend the transportation off India ns, is to receive
his regular pay, and one hundred and fifty dollars a month, and
then to receive besides, twelve thousand dollars for nine months,
in the shape of commissions, while the same officer, if he had
-been assigned to disburse provisions and money, and to superintend the transportation of troops, would receive his regular pay,
and twenty dollars a month, and nothing more, presents an inconsistency so glaring, as to set at defiance all justice or regularity in the provisions of the laws.
We are not left, however, to apply to officers, employed as the
defendant was, the general principle merely derived firorI these

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

437

[Minis v. The United States.]

enactments. We have two express provisions on the subject in
the shape of authentic army regulations, promulgated before the
account of the defendant was rendered. The army regulation
of the 14th of March, 1835, published as a general order by the
Secretary of War, declares in express terms, that "an allowance
of all extra compensation of every kind whatsoever, is prohibited, for which provision is not made by law ;" and- it enumerates, in terms, "Per centage to officers, for disbursing funds
not properly appertaining to their department:" and also "compensation to officers on duty, confiected with the removal of the
Indians, except their actu4l travelling expenses, which aie allowed by the act of 30th June, 1834." And: the volume ot
Army Regulations of 1835, is still more explicit; for it provides
fbr the identical case, by its fifty-sixth article, which is in these
words: "In all cases where an officer of the army is required,
by the direction of the War Department, to perform duties, or to
make disbursements, br which compensation is. not specially
provided by law, and where the instrpactions directing such duties
to be done, or such disbursements to be made, make no. provision for any additional compensation, no allowance therefor will
be made to such officer. It will then be considered that, in ihe
opinion of the War Department, the services so required are
within the proper sphere of his duty, as an officer of the army."
It will thus be seen that, in addition to express prohibition of the
defendant's c'aim, as arising out of services performed by him,
connected with the Indian Department, he is equally and fully
prohibited from receiving it as an officer of the army, for any
disbursement he might make as such. On the law of the land,
then, as expressed in its statutes, the charge of the Court below
was right.
It has been attempted to escape from the force of these prohibitions, by appealing to decisions of this Court which are supposed to sanction this claim for commissions, on the ground of its
being an equitable allowance for extra services. A brief examination of these cases will show that the defendant can derive
as -little aid from them in this attempt to overthrow the decision
of the Circuit Court, as he can from th statute book.
The first of these cases is that of the United States v.
.M'Daniel, 7 Peters, 12. 'The defendant, who was a clerk in the
202

438

SUPREME COURT
[Minis v. The United States.]

Navy Department, was directed, in addition to his duties as such,
to perform those of a special agent, at the navy yard in Washington, where, by law, certain disbursements were to be made,
but which, under the construction given to the acts of Congress,
there was no agent to perform. The Secretary of the Navy
allowed him a commission of onb per cent., being that allowed
to other agents similarly employed. This was done as early as
1817; the allowance was sanctioned by successive secretaries, and
was annually repdrted to Congress. In 1829, the Secretary discontinued the agency, and refused to allow the commissions then
due and unpaid, according to the previous practice. This Court
allowed the commissions on the ground that they had been allo ed by the head of an executive department, under a construction of a 14w evidenced by long usage, and that such
allowance was not beyond the power vested in him by law. In
the case of The United States v. Ripley, 7 Peters, 26, the defendant claimed to be allowed commissions for disbursements ani
services, which he stated to be out of the regular line of his duty,
as a Major General; but this Court refused to sanction them, on
the grounds, that they had not been shown by him to be out of
the range of his official duty, or to have been performed with
the sanction of the head of the department, or under any peculiar emergency, or to be warranted by any usage. In the case
of The United States v . Fillebrown, 7 Peters, 44, the defendant
was regularly appointed the Secretary of the Navy Hospital
Fund, at a .salary of two htindred and fifty dollars; some time
after he had executed the duties of this office, the accumulation
of moneys in the fiind led to the commencement of large expenditures for the erection of hospitals, and the board directed
the defendant to attend to the collections and disbursements, but
not as a duty belonging to him as Secretary; with the understanding, that he was to receive compensation, according to the
usage of the government in similar cases, which was considered
to be a per centage on the money disbursed. This Court allowed these commissions, on the ground that these disbursements
-were extra services, which the board were authorized to have
performed on the usual compensation, and which were not included in the regular dutids of the defendant; and that it was
the settled usage, to allow a commissiqon, for their performance.

JANUARY TiRM, 1841.

4S9

( M iz v. The United Statea.]

These are the only cases in'which this Court has recognised the
claim of an officer, receiving a -fixed compensation, to., charge
commissions ot moneys disbursed by him, where he is not, in
terms,.'authorized by law to do so. What are the principles that
they lay down'? They are these: that where. a person, in the
public service, is required by the head of an executive department.to disburs&moneys which the law requires to be disbursed,
but for wlich no person is designated, he may receive, unless
prohibited by law or notice, such commissions as the head of the
department shall agree upon, on such as have been sanctioned
by an established usage.
Do the principlesthus laid down apply in aiy one respect to
the present case? They do not. The defendant, being an officerhi the public service, was required to disburse moneys and pro'visions, under the specific.provisions of an Indian treaty, to or
for the use of the emigrating Cherokees; that this is a duty of an
Indian agent, under the directions of' the War Department, is too
clear to admit of question. The act of 1834, then says, that all
'officerp of the army may be required to perform any duties appertaining to an Indiarl agency; and it expressly directs'that, where,
these duties are the distribution of nioney or provisions, an officer
of the army shall be present, even though another agent is
specially charged with them. These, then, are disbursements
of moneys which he may by law be called on'to perform; and
they are thus withdrawn at once from the class to which the
opinions of this Court refer. But again; such a payment for
them is expressly prohibited, both by law andby previous notice;
the law of 1834 says, that an officer of the army shall' receive
no compensation in addition to his regular pay, except his travelling expenses; and this the defendant claimed and received, to
the extent of a .very liberal allowance of five dollars for every da§
of his agency: the.army regulations, too, of 1835, which-are issued
under the authority of an act of Congress, and, when so issued,
become law. expressly prohibit the charge; the general order of
the Secretary. of War, of March, 1835, publicly issued, more-than
eighteen months before his appointment, gave him iotice that no
such allowance could be admitted. Thus, suppose the services
were not such as he was required by law to perform, still he could
not receive any such compensation as he asks, because it is pro-

. ;440

SUPREME COURT..
E(tiwi:v The United States.]

hibited:by law and previous notice. But; again; if such were not
thee4ase, he has still failed to make out his.riglf in other particulars equally necessary to bring It within the rules of this
Court; it was neither allowed by the head of the executive, department who employed him, nor was any usage proved, or
attempted to be proved in its fa'vour; on the contrary, we have
seen, that the head of the War Department, by published orders
Ja March, 1835, and in December, 1836, explicitly refused in,
advance to •sanction such a claim; the only usage atiempted by
the defendart is one for an allowance of fuel and quarters, and,certain traveling expenses; and the whole system in regard to
allowances to, officers taken from the service to perform such
duties, bither in the pay, commissariat, or quartermaster's departmentsis shown to be exactly the reverse of what the defendant
claims, and exactly in accordance with what he is allowed; that
is a s'mn to cover his additiona-'expenses, added to 'is pay.
Thus fails the endeavour to sustain this claim on principles
derived fromthe judicial decisions of this Court. It is as.little
sustained by them as by positive law.
5. If the defendant could, however, have derived colour from
any general laws ; or if he could have brought his case within
-thprincipjesestablished by this Court in 1833; if there had
been a previous usage to make such allowances, and if they had
been: sanctioned by-the Secretary of War, still his present claim
would not avail him. The service was performed after the
passage of the act of 3d March,: 1835, (9 .Laws U. S. 107,) which

declares that "no officer of the army shall receive any per cent.
or addition~l pay, extra allowance or compensation, in any form
whatsoever, on account of the disbursing of any public mon6y
appropri~iedby law during the present session, for fortifications,
execution of surveys, works of internalimprovement, building of
arsenals, purchase of -public supplies of any description, or for
any othdr service or duty whatsoever, unless authorized by lar."
The-duty of the defefidant is not one arising under any of the.
specified appropriations for the session of 18 5; it is embraced,
if at all, by the final clause: "for any other -service or duty
whatsoever, unless authorized bylaw." It is admitted that, if
this is a general provision; applicable' to other years than 1835,
it is a legal pr6hibition of the defendant's claim. We are then

J3Ae'nIT TERM,'141.
pMW

441

Tae flthIeStatee.]

to amrtain whether it is so*lidited. It is subjRitied that it, is
indt,
tIt is a.general proVision prohibiting- the receipt,'ty an
offker of the afmy, of any per cent. or additional pay, extra

alloWancp or compensation, in any form whatever, fora*iy ser,Keor duty-whatsoever, unless aithorized by.law. This provisioh should b6 so construed because such i the genleral intentfii_ df the act; and because sudh is the" true grdinmatical coniti
0fionf'its language. The general intention of thd act may
benifrred frbm.the previous legislation to which I have adverted..
We have seen that successively, in 1816, 1821, 1826iand 1834,
Oongreis had legislated' on tHese allowances to officers of the:
army. They had, in succession, positively forbidden that when
they were called on to perform duties in thepay department, the
commissariat, as qua'rtermasterj or in connexion with Indian
agehecies, they should be limited to a small addition beyond their
,pay. Nothing can more clearly show th 'intention of Congress,
a0 to the general rule it desired to establish. It had, by law after
1lV', up to 1834, put its veto against these allowances in each of
the branches in which they were most usuallyclaimed. in 1835,.
th6 subject of the intdrnal improvements, to- whiclh this apvroPriation act immediately referred, was before them; that was
itiother class in which it was known sinilitr claims were made:
they declared that, in the appropriations they were then making,
such allowances should be forbidden, and they determined to
close the subject, by a general declaration to the same effect, in
regard to all officers of the army. So to do was evidently to
carry out their previously expressed intetion; it-was erfectly
consistent with it; it malkes the whole legislation, in regard to
offi~ers 'of the army, harmonious. "So, too, if we look at their
subsequent legislation; we find them, in 1839, adopting a similar
provision, (9 Laws U. S. 1013,) in regard to "all officers in every
branch of the public service;1" thus completing a system which
Was commenced in 1816, or,.pethaps, earlier; never relinquished;
and enforced successively, is cases occurred which showed
a deviation from it. That the. construction of the provision of
1835, therefore, as a permanent one, applicable to all officers of
the army, is in accordance with 'the intention of Congress, will
hardly be denied. On the other hand, is the llmitation of it to a
single year consistent with such intention ?' It is not, in the first

449

SUPREME COURT.
[Minis v. The Uuited States]

place, because it is at variance with these previou. laws; in the
second place, there is no conceivable reason why it should be
limited to the year 1835; there was nothing peculiar in the dute'
or services of that year. 'Again; there is nothing in the- nature
of the provision that should make it temporary ; if it was just in'
one year, it was just in another;- it was as much so in 1835, as
in 1834 or 1836; in fact, this class of duties was unusually large
in. i835; the disbursements were very great; the labours of the
officers were such-as, far more' than in former years, to- entitle
them to an allowance, if the policy of the laws justified it.
There is, then, every reason to suppose that Congress intended
to make a general provision; and none for, believing that they
intended to make a temporary one. This should have great
weight with us in construing language that is doubtful.
But, examining the clause in its grammatical construction,
brings us to the same result. It cannot be properly read as
limited to a single year; the limitation is simply a reference to
particular appropriations, which are included in the provision; -a
designation of them, not a qualificatifn of the general and spe4
cific enactment. It says that no officer shall receive extra
compensation, on account of disbursing any public money, appropriated during the present session, for fortifications, &c.; or any
other service or duty whatsoever, unless authorized "by law.
The only subject to which the words, 1'during the present session," refer, are what is then appropriated. Are duties and
services "appropriated ?" We must read the sentence in one
of two'ways; either it is to be read, "no officer shall receive
extra compensation for .any other service or duty whatsoever,
unless authorized by law," which is a general provision; or it is
to be read, ",no officer shall receive extra compensation, on
account of disbursing any pubgic money, appropriated .during'
the present session, for any service or duty, unless authorized by
law." In the first place, this presents a contradiction in terms.
How can the' money be "appropriated for a service or duty,"
and yet the service or duty not be "authorized by law ?" But,
-again, how can it be said that an appropriation is made for "a
servie or duty ?" these are words that relate to the performance
of acts by officers, not to what is'the subject-matter of an.appropriation; the particular works mentioned are objects of appro-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

-443

[Minis e. The United States.]

priation; and, as the yearly provision for them is the subject of
the bill, it is natural and proper that, in speaking of it, they
should be so alluded to; to extend it beyond this, is to give it a
construction that the words do not fairly authorize.
It is submitted, then, that the decision of the Circuit Court
ought not to be reversed, because no case for reversal, on the
defendant's own ground, is presented by his bill -of exceptions;
and, if his case were properly set forth, yet the decision of the
Court is in accordance with the law, as prescribed by the -statute
book, and as expounded by this tribunal.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court
This is the case of a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the
District of Georgia. The original suit was brought by the
United States against Doctor Philip Minis, (the plaintiff in error,)
to recover the balance of thirteen thousand five hundred and
eighty-nine dollars and five cents, due from him to the United
States. At the trial of the cause upon the general issue, a transcript of the account from the Treasury Department establishing
the balance was given, in evidence; and the sole question in
controversy between the parties was, whether Doctor Minis was
entitled to credit for certaifi items which had been disallowed by
the Treasury Department. The principal item, and the only
one now in controversy, was a claim by Doctor Minis, who was
a surgeon in the army, and was appointed military disbursing
agent for removing and subsisting the Cherokee Indians, of two
and a half per cent. commissions on the sum of five hundred and
fourteen thousand two hundred and thirty-seven dollars and sixtyone cents, actually disbursed by him in the course of his agency in
1836 and 1837. No evidence was offered on the part of Doctor
Minis of any contract or of any usage of the government for the
allowance of any such commission, in cases of this sort. The
counsel for Doctor Minis, among other things, (not material i
the present state of the case,) prayed the Court to instruct the
jury, 1. That the clause in the act of Congress of the 3d of
March, 1835, ch. 303, which was relied upon as the authority
by which the defendant's claim for commissions was rejected,
did not apply to the defendant's. case; because it expressly refers
to moneys appropriated during that session of Congress, and,

SUPREME COURT.
[Minis v. The United State.]

therefore, that the Second Auditor erred in disallowing the charge
for commissions. 2. That the defendant was entitled to the
commissions charged by him, as well from the long established
practice of the government, as from the law of the land; there
being no law prior to the act of the 3d of March, 1839, disallowing commissions or moneys disbursed for the government.
3. That the charge for commissions should be allowed, because
the charge is made for the disbursement of moneys appropriated
during the sessiois of Congress of 1836 and 1837; and, therefore, that neither the act of 1835 nor of 1839 was applicable.
These instructions the Court refused to give; but instructed,
the jury "that in the relations which the defendant had stood
to the United States, as an officer in the army, he. had io claim
by law for commissions on the sum disbursed by hind, whatever
interpretation might be given to the concluding proviso of the
act of the 3d of March, 1835, ch. 303; and admitting that
such proviso was limited to a prohibition per cent., additiqual
pay, extra allowance or compensation, on account of disbursing
any public money appropriated by law during the session of
Cbngress when the act was passed containing the proviso; that
said proviso could not be interpreted to give commissions or per
cent. upon disbursements of aiftecedent or subsequent appropriations of money by'Congress, unless the same Were authorized by.
law; and that no law authorized tlie defendant to charge commissions; and therefore that the Second Auditor had not erred
in disallowing commissions to the defendant." To this opinion
of the Court the defendant excepted. The jury found a verdict
for- the United States, after deducting -certain other disallowed
items; and judgment was rendered, accordingly, for the United
States; and the present writ of error is brought to revise that
judgment.
It is certainly true,.as hag been suggested at the bar, that the
case is, as to the evidence necessary to raise some of the questions very imperfectly and defectively stated; and therefore some
of the instructions might on this account hAve been well refused.
It is, however, much more satisfactory to us to be able to dis:pose of the case upon its true merits.
The first instruction asked embraces the question, what is the
-true construction of the, first section of the act of the 3d of

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

445

[Minis v. The United States]

March, 1835, ch, 303, entitled 'An act making certain additional
appropriations for the Delaware Breakwater, Ond for certain
harbours, and removing obstructions in and at the mouth 6f certain rivers, for the year 1835." "That act, after making the specific appropriations, bontains the following proviso: ". Provided,
that no officers of 1he army shall receive any per cent. or additional pay, extra alidwance or .compensation, in any form whatsoever, on account of the disbursing any public money appropriated by law during the present session for fortifications, execittion
of surveys, works of internal improvement, building of arsenals,
purchase of public supplies of any description, or for any other
service or duty whatsoever, unless authorized by law." The
argument on behalf of the United' States is, that this proviso,
although found in a mere appropriation law of a limited- nature,
is to be construed, by reason of the words "or for any other service or duty whatsoever, unless authorized by law," to be permanent in its operation, and applicable to all future appropriations, where officers of the army are employed in such servico
or duty; and that it appears from thp record, that this was the
veryground on which the Treasury Department rejected the
claim of Doctor Minis for commissions. The same question
has been made and fully a'gued in the case of Gratiot v. The
United States, at the present term; and we have given it our
deliberate consideration. We are of opinion that such is not the
true interpretation of the terms of the proviso ; and that it is
limited exclusively to appropriations made at the session of
1835.

It would be somewhat unusual to find engrafted -upon an act
making special and temporary appropriation, any provision
which was to have a general and permanent application to all
future appropriations. Nor ought such an intention on the
part of the legislature to be presumed, unless it is expressed in
the most clear and positive terms, and where the language admits of no other reasonable interpretation. The office of a proviso, generally, is either to except something :from the enacting
clause, or to qualify or restrain its generality, or to exclude same
possible ground of misinterpretation of it, as extending to cases
not intended by the legislature to b e brought within its purview.
.4 general- rule., applicable to all future casesi would most natuVOL. XV.-2 P

446

SUPREME COURT.
[Minis v. The UWWtetm]..

rally be expected to find its proper place in some distinet and
independent enactment.
Now,-the language of the present proviso is perfectly satisfied
by confining its operation to appropriations to be made during
the then.existing sess'on. It seefns.clear that the words of the
proviso ought to receive this interpretation, if the last clause, "or
for any other' service or duty whatsoever, unless authorized by
law," were left out. The proviso would then in legal effect
read: thaf no offledr of the army shall receive-a.ny per cent. or
additional pay, extra allowance, or compensation, in any form
whatever, on account of the disbursing any public money appropriated by law durhig the present segsion, for fortifications,
-for execution, of surveys, for works of internal improvement, for
building of arsenals, for the purchase of public supplies of every
description. What difficulty, then, is created by the addition of
the subsequent~clause? In our judgment none whatsoever. The,
preceding enumeration is of special services in disbursing public
money on account of particular appropriations for fortifications,
&c. .But it was foreseen by Congres that other appropriations
might be made during -the same sestion for other objects not
comprehended in the .preceding ehumeration; and thergfore, ex
industria, the subsequent clause was added to supply any defect
of this nature, and to cut off all claims for-extra pay, allowance,
or co npensation for disbursements connected with such objects.
The whole clause in this view would read precisely as if. it had
been introduced iinniediatelyafter the. words "for fortifications."
It would then be, that no officer of the'army shall receive any
per cent.,.&c., on account of disbursing any public money appropriated, by law during the present session, f6r fortifications,
or for- any. other service or duty whatsoever. This, too, is the
grammatical sense of the words of the whole proviso, in the
order in which they stand. On the other hand, the interpretation put up on the proviso or behalf of the United States, requires the Court to read it as if the last clause were wholly
indepeqdent of the preceding enumeration, and permanently prohibited any extra allowance or compensation." for any other service or-duty" than disbursements, but prohibited it for disbursements only, ,under appropriations made during that session.
This would'seem obviously to be inconsistent with the policy

JANUARY TERM,, 1841.

447

[Minis v. The Uhited States.]

-

upon which the supposed permanency of the proviso is maade to
rest. The prohibition would then be utterly inapplicable to disbursements of future appropriationswhich in most cases is the leading item of charge, and would be confined to "any other service or
duty." Such an interpretation certainly ought hot to be adopted
in a proviso to an.act making appropriations for- certain specified objects, unless it be unavoidable. And to make the proviso
apply to disbursements under future appropriations generally,
the Court would be driven to interpolate into it the *'vords "or
at any future session;" a liberty which, consistefitly with the'
known limits of judicial duty, could never be properly assumed.
The 'Subsequent legislation of Congress, even if it could be
brought inaid of the argument, rather tends to co)ifirm, than to
impugn the interpretation which we have given to the proviso.
It was not until the act of 3d March, 1839. ch. 82, that Congress
made a general provision on the subject, and enacted, by a distinct section, that no officer, in any branch of the public service,
or any other person, whose salaries, or whose pay or emolument
is, or are fixed by law, shall receive any extra allowance or
compensation in any form whatever, for the disbursement of
public money, or the perforniahce of any other service, unless
the said extra allowance or compensation be allowed by law.
The generality of this section would seem to show that, until
that period, no law existed on the subject which was permanently
applicable to any branch of the public service.
We think, then, that according io the natural meaning of the
words, and the order in which they stand, the true interpretation
of the -'vhole proviso is, that it is limited to appropriations made
during the -session of 1835. If, therefore, the disallowaifce of
Dr. Minis's claim to commissions depended upon the act of 1835,
(as was the construction of the Treasury Department,) the in-'
structjon asked on this point ought to have been given by the
Circuit Court,
But we are of opiidon that his claim was properly disallowed
upon another and distinct ground. No evidence of any coniract
or usage was offered td sustain it; and the case appears to us to.
fall directly within the provisions of the act of 30th of Jufle, 18-34,
ch. 162, for the organization of the Department of Indian Affairs.
The 4th section of that act provides that "it shall be competent

448

SUPREME COURT.
[Minis v.The UnitedL State.]

for the President to require any military offi6er of the United
States to execute the dutieg-of an Indian agent." The lth
section further provides, that "the duties required by any section
of this act, of military officers, shall be performed without, a y
other-compensation'than their actual travelling expense&.?' Dr.
Minig being a surgeQn in the army, was appointed disbursing
agent for removing and subsisting the-Cherokee Indi.ans,'and
has been Allowed 'a compensation for his travelling expenses,
under the agency, of five dollais per diem, amounting, in the
.wh6le, to the sum of one thousand four hundred and twenty
dollars.. 'It is not pretended that this sum was not a-reasonable
compensation.
It .has been -suggested at the argument, that no other agents
are within- the purview of the act of 1834, than such Indian
agents as are to be appointed under that act as general Indian.
agents; and that'Dr. Minis was hot in that predicament. But'
looking to the whole scope and object of that act, contemplating,
as it does, that- military officers might be called upon to perform
duties in connection with: the 'general Indiani agents, by'the
direction of the President, we cannot' but enteitain the- opinion,
that the terms of the act were designed to exclude such enilitary
officers from any other compensation than their, travelling ex-.
penses 5 as, in truth, when dptached upon such special service,'
they were till entitled to their ordinary military pay and emoldments.
It has also been suggested, that the, disbursements in, -the
present case were not properly of public money, becatise it was
money stipulated by treaty to be paid to the Cherokebs, upon
their removal, and the cession -of their lands. But we think this
objection is unmaintainable. 'The payments made were properly
public money, and thedisbursements thereof were on account
of'the United States, and for their use-and benefit, in fulfilment
of the obligations of the treaty.
Upon the whole, the-efore, we are of opinion that the Circuit
Court rightfully, under all the circumstances' of' the case, refused
the instructions prayed for avd gave the very instruction which"
was required by law.
. The judgment is, therefore, affirmed.

