THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

JAMES MOODY VAUGHAN AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS, VS. HENRY

NORTHup, ADMINISTRATOR OF JAMES MOODY, DECEASED, AND
OTHERS.

An administrator, appointed, and deriving his authority from another state, is not liable
to be sued. in the District of Columbia, in his official character, fdr assets, lawfully
received by him in the District, under, and in virtue of his original letters of administration.
Every grant of administration is'strictly confined in its authority and operation to the
limits of the territory of the government which grants it, and doeh not, de jure, extend
to other countries. It cannot confer, as a matter of right, any authority to collect
assets of the deceased, in any other state; and whatever operation is allowed to it
beyond the original territory of the grant, is a mere matter of courtey, which every
nation is'at liberty to yield or to withhold, according to its own policy and'pleasure,
with reference to its own institutions,.and the interests of its own cilizdps.
The administrator is exclusively bound to account for all the assets which'he • receives
under, and by virtue of his administration, to, the proper tribunals of the government
under which he derives his authority. The tribunals of other states have no right
to interfere with, or control the application of those assets according to the lex loci.
Hence it has become an established doctrine, that an administrator cannot, in his
official capacity, sue for any debts due to his intestate, in the Courts of another State;
and that he is not liable to be sued in that capacity, in the Courts of the lattt'r, by
any creditor, for any debt due there byhis intestate.
The debts due from the government of the United States, have no locality at the ;eat.
of government. The United States, in their sovereign capacity, have no partie. far
place of domicile: but possess, in contemplation of law, an ubiquity throughout tie
Union; and the debts due by them are not to be treated like the debts of a priva e
debtor, which constitute local assets in his own domicile.
The administrator of a creditor of the government, duly appointed in the state where
he was domiciliated at his death, has full authority to receive payment, and give a
full discharge of the debt due to his intestate, in any place where the gouernment
may choose to pay it; whether it be at the seat of government, or at any other place
where the funds are deuDeited.

VOL. XV.-

1

SUPREME COURT.
[Vadghan et a].
v. Northup et id.]
The act of Congress, of Sane,1822, authorizes any person to whom lettersestamentary
or of administration have been granted, in the States of the United States, to prosecute claims by suit in the Couttsef the District of Columbia, in the same manner as
if the same had been granted"to such personis by the proper authority in the District
of Columbia. The power is limited by its terms to the institution of suits; and does
not authorize suits against an executori or administrator. The effect of t" 'law was
to make alldebts due by persons in the District, net local assets, for which the
administrator was bound to account in the Courts of the District; but general assets,
which he had full authorityto receive, and for which he was bound to account in the
Courts of the state from which he? derived his letters of administration.
The case of Kane vs. Paul, 14 Peter%, 33, cited.

-ON appeal from the Circuif Court of the United States for
Alexandria; in the District of Coluibia.
A bill -was filed on -the equity §ide of the Circuit 'Court
of the District of Columbia, stating that the. complainants are
the next of kin and distributees of James Moody, deceased,
who resided in Kentucky at the time of his death: that the
defendant, Northup, took out letters of administration on the
estate of said Moody, in the proper court in Kentucky, and
by virtue of said letters claimed and received from the government of the United States a -large sum of money, to wit, fiftytwo hundred dollars. The bill further stated that the complainants reside in Virginia; that Northup was in the District
of Columbia at the time of filing the bill; (and Northup was
actually found in said District, as appears by the marshal's
iethrn of the subpcona;) and that the other defendants reside in
Kentucky, and pretend to be the next' of kin and distributees of
said Moody. The bill prays an account of said estate against
said Northup, and distribution of theassets received from the
United States, &e. Northup ahswered, and pleaded to the jurisdiction of the Court on the ground that he was only responsible
to the Court in Kentucky, in which he had obtained letters of
administration : he then went on and answered the bill -at large,
denying all its material allegations. The other defendants also
came inland answered the bill. The complainants ordered the
plea of Northup to the jurisdiction of the Court to be set down
for argument; and upon the argument, the Court below ordered
the bill of complaint.to be dismissed.
The complainants appealed to the Supreme Court.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

3

[Vaughn et aL v. Northup et ].]
The case was argued by Mr. Brent, for the appellants; and by
Mr. Coxe, for the appellee.
Mr. Brent stated that the question was, whether a foreign
administrator, one who had taken out letters of adnministration in
another state, can come into the District of Columbia, and receive
money in the District, and was hot answerable for the amount
so received in the District.
The apptilee, Henry Northup, was in the District when the
suit was brought.
It is admitted, that at common law, an administrator is only
liable to account where the administration is granted. But this
rule should not be applied to cases in the District of Columbia.
There would be a peculiar hardship in.the rule, if it is applied
here. A small amount of security might be taken on the granting letters of administration; and on those letters, a large amount
of assets might be received out of the state granting the same.
The creditors and next of kin would have no relief against the
sureties of such an administrator.
An act of Congress of the 24th of June, 1812, authorizes administrators from other states of the Union, to collect money
and institute suits in the District of Columbia. This places the
foreign administrator on the same footing as.if letters had been
granted to him in the District of Columbia, and places him under
the same responsibilities. The Court is bound to take notice
of foreign administrators coming .into. the district. Khne v.
Paul, 14 Peters, 33.
Thus, no adminisfration to the effects of Moody could be obtained in this District, after the granting of the letters to Northup
in Kentucky; but the funds were all received uere by the administrator: and the Court will administer the assets, at the place
where they have been received, and at the place of suit. 11
Massachusetts Reports, 264. A legatee can sue the adminis ator, when he obtains the assets. 4 Mass. 344. 3 Peters' Rep.
144. Story's Conflict of Laws, 1st ed., 425, declares that non-resident claimants are to .be regarded in the same manner as residents. Cited, I Mason, 381. 1 Story's Conflict of Laws, sect. 534.
531. 588.
The act of Congress of 1821, gives jurisdiction to the Courts
of the District of Columbia, in all cases in lUw or equity, where

4

SUPREME COURT.
[Vaughn et aL v.Northup et aL]

both, or either of the parties are residents within the District of
Columbia. The Probate Courts of Kentucky have not exclusive jurisdiction over the distribution of assets. 1 A. K. Marshall's Rep. 459.
As to the pleadings, cited, Livingston v. Story, 11 Peters, 393.
Milford's Pleading, 305, 309.
Mr. Coxe, for the a~pellees. In the case of Livingston v. Story,
there was a plea- to th;, disability of the plaintiff. The objection
in this case is to the jurisdiction:of the Circuit Court of the District
of Columbia; in the matter of this administratoi, and the distribution of the assets, which must be made, as a great portion of
them has already been made, in the state of Kentucky."
The act of Congress of 1812, does no more than authorize.
administrators of other states to sue ip the District of Cbliunbia;
this was necessary, in consequence of the ] rge claims in the
District, frem every part of the Union. The act goes no further
than this; and not to abrogate all the laws prpvailing on the subject. * The law never intended to oblige a foreign administrator
to stand a suit here; it would be vastly-injurious, if such should
be the law.
The act giving jurisdiction to the Courts of the United States,
in the District of Columbia, cannot-receive the construction given
to it by the counsel for the appellants; the jurisdiction is given
in caseg properly cognisable in the Courts, when one of the parties is in the District. Cited, Story's Conflict of Laws, sect. 422.
5i. 515.
Tle argument for the appellants is, that as the money was
received in the District of Columbia, it is to be distributed and
administered according to the laws of the District. -It is important that this question shall be settled. This -%as a claim in the
hands of an administrator in Kentucky, of a debt due to a citizen
of Virginia, by the state of Virginia, for military services, for
which the United States had agreed to pay. Is this tobring the
fund, because it was received in the District, subject to the laws of
the District?
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the dpinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
District of Columbia, sitting, for the county of Washington, disi

JANUARY TERM, 1841.
[Vaughn et aL v. Northup et al]

missing a bill in equity, brought by the appellants against the
appellees.
The facts, so far as they are necessary to be stated upon the
present occasion, are, that one James Moody, an inhabitant of
Kentucky, died in that state about the year 1802, intestate, without leaving any children; that in May or June, 1833, the defendant, Northup, obtained letters of administration upon .his
estate from the proper Court of Jefferson county, in Kentucky;
and afterwards under and in virtue of those letters of administration, he received from the treasury of the United States the sum
of five thousand two hundred and fifteen dollars and fifty-six
cents; for money due to the intestate, or his representatives, for
military .services rendered during the revolutionary war. The
present bill was brought by the appellants, claiming to be the
next of kin, and heirs of the intestate, for their distributive shares
of the said money, against Northup -as administrator; and the
other defendants, who are made parties, are asserted to be adverse
claimants, as next of kin and distributees. At the hearing of
the cause in the Court bel6w; the same .having been set down
for argument upon the answer of Northup, denyiig thejurisdiction of the Court; the bill was ordered to be dismissed for want
of jurisdiction; and from that decree the present appeal has been
taken.
Under these circumstances the question is broadly presented
whether an administrator, appointed and deriving his authority
from another state, is liable to be sued here, in his official character, for assets lawfully received by him under and in virtue
of his original letters of administration. We are of opinion, both
upon principle and authority, that he is not. Every grant of
adninistration is strictly confined in its authority and operation
to the limits of the territory of the government which grants it'
and does not, de jure, extend to other countries. It cannot confer,
as a matter of right, any authority to collect assets of the deceased
in any other state; and whatever operation is allowed to it beyond the original territory of the grant is a mere matter of cornity,
which every nation is at liberty to yield or to withhold, according-to its own policy and pleasure, with reference to its own
institutions and the interests of its own citizens. On the other
.hand, the administrator is exclusively bound to account for all
A2

SUPREME COURT.
[Vaughn et a. v. Northup et aL.]

the assets which he receives under and in virtue of his administration to the proper tribunals of the government from which he
derives his authority; and the tribunals of other states have no
right to interfere with or to control the application of those assets,
according to the lex loci. Hence it has become an established
doctrine that an administrator, appointed in one state, cannot,
in his official canacity, sue for any debts due to his intestate in
the courts of anuther state; and that he is not liable to be sued
in that capacity in the Courts of the latter, by any creditor, for
any debts due there by his intestate. The authorities to this
effect are exceedingly numerous, both in England and America;
but it seems to us unnecessary, in the present state of the law,
to do more than to refer to the leading principle as recognised
by this Court in Fenwick v. Sears, 1 Cranch, 259; Dixon's
Executors v. Ramsay's Executors, 3 Cranch, 319; and Kerr
iv. Moon, 9 Wheat. 565.
But it has been suggested that the present case is distinguishable, because the assets sought to be distributed were not collected
in Kentucky, but were received as a debt due from the government at -the treasury department at Washington, and so constituted local assets within this District. We cannot yield our
assent to the correctness of this argument. The debts due from
the government of the United States have no locality at the seat
of government. The United States, in their s6vereign capacity,
have no particular place of domicile, but possess, in contemplation of law, an ubiquity throughout the Union; and the debts
due by them are not to be treated like the debts of a private
debtor, which constitute local assets in his own domicile. On the
eontrary, the administrator of a creditor of the government, duly
appointed in th'e state where he was domiciled at his death, has
full authority to receive payment, and give a full discharge of
the debt due to his intestate, in any place where the government
may choose to pay it; whether it be at the seat of government,
or at any other place where the public funds are deposited. If
any other doctrine were to be recognised, the consequence would
be, that before the personal representative of any deceased
creditor, belonging to any state in the Union, would be entitled
to receive payment of any debt due by the government, he would
be compellable to take out letters of administration in this Dis.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

7

[Vauglm et al.v. Northup et al.]

trict for the due administration of such assets. Such a doctrine
has never yet been sanctioned by .anypractice of the government;
and would be full of public as well as private inconvenience. It
has not, in our judgment, any just foundation in the principles
of law. We think that Northup, under the letters of administration taken out in kentucky, was fully authorized to receive
the debt due from the government to his intestate; but the.moneys
so received constituted assets under that administration, for which
he was accountable to the proper tribunals in Kentucky; and that
distribution thereof might have been, and should have been,
sought there in the same manner as of any other debts due to
the intestate in Kentucky.
It has also been supposed, that the act of Congress of the
24th of June, 1812, may well entitle the appellants to maintain the present suit; since it places a foreign administrator upon
the footing of a domestic administrator, in the District of Columbia. That act provides that it shall be lawful for any person to
whom letters testamentary" or of administration hafh been or may
hereafter be granted by the.proper authority, in any of the United
States or the territories thereof, to -maintain any suit or action,
or to prosecute and recover any claim in the District of Columbia,
in the same manner as if the letters testamentary or of admi
nistration had been granted to such person by the proper authority,
in the said District. It is observable, that this provision is limited by its terms to the maintenance of suits, and the prosecution
and recovery of claims in the District, by any executor or administrator appointed under the authority of any state. It does
not authorize any suits or actions in the District, against any
such executor or administrator. Its obvious design was, therefore, to enable foreign executors and administrators to maintain
suits, and to prosecute and recover claims in the District, not
against the government alone, but against any persons whatever, resident within the District, who were indebted to the deceased, and to discharge the debtor therefrom, without the grant
of any local letters of administration. In effzct, it made all
debts due from persons within the District, not local assets, for
which a personal representative would be liable to account in the
Courts of the District; but general assets, which he had full authority to repeive, and for which he was bound to account in

8

SUPREME COURT.
[Vaughn et a]. v. Noirthup et a.]

the Courts of the state from which he derived his original letters
of administration. Indeed, the very silence of the act as to any.
liability of the personal representative to be sued in the Courts
of the District for such assets, so received, would seem equivalent to a declaration that he was not to be subjected to any such
liability. It fortifies, therefore,,rather than weakens the conclusion which is derivable from the general principles of law, upon
this subject. The same view of the purport and objects of the
act was taken by this Court, at the last term, in the case of Kane
v. Paul, 14 Peters, 33.
Upon the whole, we arb of opinion that the Circuit Court was
right in dismissing the bill for the want of jurisdiction; and,
therefore, the decree is affirmed with costs.
This case came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was
argued by counsel.
On consideralibn whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this
Court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

