JANUARY TERM, 1841.

449

MosEs GROVES AND JAMES GRAHAM, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.
ROBERT SLAUGHTER, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

JOHN W. BRowN, MOSES GROVxS, R. M. ROBERTS, AND JAMES
GRAHAM, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. ROBERT SLAUGHTER, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
An action was instituted in the Circuit Court of Louisiana, on'a promissory note given
in the state of Mississippi, for the purchase of slaves in that state. The slaves had been
imported in 1835-1836, asmerchandise, or for sale, int Mississippiby anon-resident
of that state. The constitution of Mississippi, adopted on the 26th October, 1832,
declared tht the introduction of slaves into that.tate, as 1nerchsndi6, or for sale, shall
'be prohibited from and afterthe first day of May, 1839.'. Te ptieas to the note
contended, in the Circuit Court, that the contract was void- asserting that it was made
in violation of-the provision of the constitution of Mississippi, which, it was insisted,
was operative after May 1, 1833, without legislative enactment to carry the same
into effect. Held, that the prohibition of the constitution did not invalidate the contract, but that an act of the legislature of the state was required to carry it into effect;
and no law on the subject of the prohibition in the zonstitution, was passed until

188s7.

The construction of the provision in the constitution of Mississippi, relative to the
introduction of slaves for sale, into that state, has notbeen so fixed and settled by the
Courts of Missisiippi, as to preclude the Supreme Court of the United States from
regarding it as an opin question.
The language of the constitution o viously, points to something more to be dope, and
looks to some future time, not only for its fulfilment, but for the means by which it
was to be accomplished. But the mere graihmatical construction ought not to cntrol the interpretation, unless it is warranted by the general scope and object of the
provision.
Under the constitution of Mississippi, of 1817, it is declared that the legislature shall
have power to prevent slaves being brought into the state as merchandise. The time
and manner in which this was to be done, was left touth6 discretion of the legislature;
and, by the constitution of 1832, it is no longer a matter of diecretion when this
prohibition is to take effect; but the 1st day of May, 1833, is fixed on es the time,
before which the prohibition shall not operate. But there is nothing in this provision
which looks like withdrawing the whole subject from the action of the legislature. On
the contrary, there is every reason to believe, from the mere naked prohibition, that
it looked to legislative enactments to carry it into full operadon; and, indeed, this is
indispensable. There are no penalties or sanctions provided in the constitution, for
its due and effectual operation. The constitution of 1832 looks to a change of policy
on the subject, and fixes the time when the entire prohibition shall take effect; and
it is a fair
and reasonable conclusion, that it was the only material change from the
constitution of 1827.

2 r2

57

(GiSbves etal. %'Slaughter.]
Admitting the constilutiri is mandatory, upon the legislature, and that they have
vneglected their duty in not parrying'it into execution, it can have no effect upon the
construction of this article.. Legislative provision is essential to carry into effect the
object of the prohibition. It requires the'sanction of penalties to accomplish this
object.
What would become of the slaves thus introduced, if the construction is such as to give
the piovision immediate operation? Will they becowe free immediately, on introduction, or do Jhey become forfeited to the state 1 These are questions not easily
answered ; and although these difficulties may be removed by subsequent legislation,
yet they are proper circumstances to be taken into consideration, when inquiring into
the intention of the convention, in forming tie constitution. It is unreasonable to
suppose, thatif this prohibition was intended to operate, per se, without -ny legislative aid, that there would'not have been some guards and checks throvn round it, to
insure its execution.
The Oroviso in this article, that actual settlers shall not -be .prohibited from bringing in
-avdq for their own use, until the year 1845, must, necessarily, be considered as
addressed to the legislature, and must be construed as-a restriction on their power.
The enacting part of the article, "shall be prohibited," is also addressed to the legislature, and is a command to do-certain acts. The legislative-enactments on this subject strongly fortify the conclusion,'that this provision in the constitution was not
understood but as directory to the legislature.
The enactment ofa law in 1837, to carry the provision of thd constitution into effect
by imposing penalties, from and after the passing of the law, shows the sense of the
legisltture on thb subject; and that,,in the opinion of the legislature, such a law was
pecessary. The laying ofa tax on slaves brought into the state for sale after May first,
,1833, also shows that the provision in the constitutionwas not considered in operation
without some legislative provisions to carry it ito effect.
To declare.all contracts made for the purchase of slaves, introduced as merchandise, or
for sale, from the first of May, 1833, until the passage of the law of 1837, illegal and
void-, when there wAs such an unsettled state of opinion and course of policy pursued
by the legislature; would be a severe and rigid construction of the constitution ; and
one that ought not to be adopted, unless called for by the most plain and unequivocal
laniguage.
The Court do not mean to say, that if there appeared to have been a fixed and settled
course of policy in the state of Mississippi, against allowing the introduction'of slaves,
as-merchandise, or for sale, after the first day of May, 1833,'ihat a contract made in
violation of such policy would not be void. But the Court cannot think that this
prLciple applies to this case; as, when the sale of the slaves in question was made
'there was, certainly, no fixed and settled course of policy whfch would make void or
illegal such contracts.

IN error from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana.
In the first case, the defendant- in error, on the I1th day of
February, 1839, had instituted'a suit, by petition, in the Circuit

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

401

(Groves et aL v. iaugater.]

Court of Louisiana, against the plaintiffs in error, on a promissory note. for the sum of seven thousand eight hundred:and
seventy-five dollars, dated at Natchez, on the 20th of December,
1836, payable at the Commercial'Bank at Natchez, drawn by
John NV. Brown to the order of, and eildorsed by R. M. Roberts,
and also endorsed by Moses .Groves and James Graham, payable
at the Cominercial Bank at Natchez twenty-four months after
date; which note had been regularly protested for non-payment.
In the second case, the suit had been instituted on the 8th day
of April, 1838, on a promissory note for seven thousand dollars,
also drawn by John W. Brown, payable at th6 Commercial
Bank at Natchez, to R. M. Roberts, or order, at Natchez, and
endorsed by him an~d the other plaintiffs in error, dated 20th
December, 1836, payable and negotiable twelve monthsr after
date, and regularly protested for non-payment.
The answers of the plaintiffs in error,.ij both the cases, stated,
that the notes were given by the drqwer, Brown, to the :lPlaintiff, in part payment of the price of certain slaves purchased hy
hirri from the plaintiff, and the notes were given at Natchez, in.
the state of Mississippi, on or about the day of their dates, respectively. That the petitioner, Robert Slaiighter, did intraduce
into the state of Mississippi, after the first day of May, 1833, the
slaves for which the rnotes were given, as merchandise, and-for
sale; and did sell the slaves,-so imported, to the said Brown; and
did take, in part.payment thereof the said notes, which had been
endorsed in blank by the respondents to accommodate the said
Brown.
The respondents alleged that the cause or consideration for
which the notes were given is'null and void, the notes are null
and voidiand of no effect; because the cohtractson which they
are founded are in direct. violation of. the constitution of the
state of Mississippi, which expressly prohibits the :introduction
of slaves into that state, as merchandise. or for sale, -after the first
day of May, 1883.
Afterwards, on the 14th of June, 1839, the following agree-'
ment Was filed, in each of the cases, as a statement of facts by
the parties.
, 99Ih 'this -case it is consented that- the question of fraud is
waived by defendants., except as hereinafter reserved; the case

452

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

is to be defended solely on the question of the legality and validity of the consideration for which the notes sued on were given.
It is admitted, that the slaves for which said notes were given,
were imported into Mississippi, as merchandise, and for sale, in
the year 1835 and 1836, by plaintiff, but without any previous
agreement or understanding, express or iniplied between plaintiff and any of the parties to the note, but for sale generally, to
any person who might wish to purchase. The slaves have never
been returned to- plaintiff, nor tendered to him by any of the
parties to the notes sued on."
The constitution of the state of Mississippi, adopted in 1832,
provided, in the 2d section, title "slaves," as follows:
.c The introduction of slaves into this state, as merchandise, or
for sale, shall be prohibited from and after the fir'st day of May,
1833 : provided, the actual settler or settlers, shall not be prohibited from purchasihg slaves in any state in this Union, and
bringing them into this state for their own individual use, till the
year 1845."
The cases were argued by Mr. Gilpin and Mr. Walker, for the
plaintiffs in error; and by Mr. Jones, Mr. Clay, and Mr. Webster,
for the defendants.
Mr. Gilpin, for the plaintiffs in error.
This is a case which involves but a single question, yet, that
it is one of surpassing interest, is proved by the ability with
which it has been discussed, the zeal and eloquence with which
-every,position in relation to it has been scanned. The simple
and single inquiry is, whether a contract, directly opposed to a
constitutional provision, not accompanied with any legislative
action, will be carried into effect by the judicial tribunals.
The first constitution of the state of Mississippi, was adopted
on the 15th of August, 1817, and solemnly approved by Congress, (3 Story's Laws, 1716,) and by the President, on the 10th
December of the same year. In its article entitled "slaves,"
was this provision: "The general assembly shall have no power
to prevent emigrants to this state from brinzing with them such
persons as are deemed slaves by the laws of any one of "the
United States, so long as any persons of the same age or de-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

453

[Groves et al.
v. Slaughter.]

scription shall be continued in slavery by the laws of this state:
provided, that such person or slave be the bona fide propertr of
such emigrants." And afterwards, the same article continues,
"They shall have full power to prevent slaves from being brought
into this state as merchandise."
In the year 1822, a! law was passed, (Revised Code of Miss.
155,).declaring that if slaves were brought for sale, he who
brought them must have a certificate, made before certain persons, of the place from which they came, to serve as.evidence
of their good character; and a severe penalty was imposed for a
violation of it.
In the same year a law was passed, (Revised Code of Miss. 154,)
declaring that persons held to service for life, in other states, and*brought into the state of Mississippi, pursuant to law, and no
others, should be deemed slaves.
On the second Monday of September, 1832, a convention met
at Jackson, to amend the state constitution. The very first
amendment proposed by the committee was to alter the article
."slaves," by striking out the words, that the legislature "shall
have power to prevent slaves b. ing brought into this state as
merchandise," and to insert in lieu of them, "the introduction
of slaves into this state, as merchandise, shall be prohibited after
the - day of18-."
As soon as it came up for discussion, it was proposed to, date
the prohibition from May, 1833. It was moved to ipake it 1899.
The former was adopted. It was then proposed to add, that
"no law shall be passed before 1850, to prevent. any citizen of
the state from purchasing and bringing in slaves for his individual
use." This also passed. In the subsequent stages of the proceedings of the convention, the subject became matter of long
debate, and was fvially referred to a committee, of which Judgh
Trotter was a member, who reported the cliuse as it had stood
before; leaving to the legislature the power to prevent the importation of slaves as merchandise. To this, a clause was moved as an
amendment, in the words now forming a part of the constituffon,
a-Ad adopted bv a vote of twenty-six to seventeen. Judge 'trotter
and Goverfior Lyrch both voting against it. That eus6,Ahus
adopted in lieu of that which was in the constitution 'of 1817, is
in the following words: "Section 2.The introduction of *laveB

454

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

into this state, as merchandise, or for sale, shall be prohibited
from'and after the 1st day of May, 1833: provided, that the
actual settler or -settlers shall not be Prohibited from purchasing
slaves in any state of this Union, and bringing them into .this
state for their own individual use, until the year 1845."
'The constitution also went on, to declare, that all laws then in
force, not repugnant to" the constitution, shohld continue to
operate till they expired by their own limitation, or till they
should be repealed.
On the 2d of March, 1833, the legislature being' in session,
passed"a law to submit to *the people an amendment of the new
constitutin., to restore to the legislature power to regulate this
subject, without the restraint of a constitutional provision.
They enacted, (Laws 6f -Mississippi, 478,) "that the second section of the seventh article of the constitution of the state,.under
the title or head "1Slaves," be so altered, changed, and amended,
as to re'ad as follows, viz.: Section 2. The legislature of this state
AhW.ll have, and are hereby vested with power to pass, from time
t 9 time, such laws, regulating or prohibiting the introduction 6f
slaves into this state, as may be deemed proper and expedient."
To make this law effectual to change the constitution, it was
necessary that it stould be approved by a majority of the citizens of the state, qualified to vote for members of the legislature.
Thig was not done, and the clause in the constitution, therefore,
remained as it was adopted hi 1832.
When, on the meeting of the legislature, it was found that this
proposed amendment was not adopted, the Senate passed a bill
again to submit it in exactly the same terms, to the people; thus
showing that, in their opinion, a constitutional sanction was necessary to enable the legislature to regulate the subject. The
House refused to concur in this; but both bodies united in passing the law of the 23d of December, 1833, (Laws of Mississippi,
525,) to tax venders of slaves. A more certain indication that
this law was not meant to apply to importers of slaves for sale,
but solely fo citizens and residents who had occasion to vend
them, could not be given. Tue House, at the same session, introduced a bill to provide penalties in aid of the constitutional pronibition. It did not then pass, hit it became a law on the 13th
of May, 1837,,which, owing to the biennial sessions of the legis-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

455

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

lature, and the omission to hold one at the followgin regular
term, was, in fact, at the next meeting of -that body. This law
(Laws of Mississippi, 758) enforced the prohibition of importations for sale by severe penalties, declaring that any persons who
should introduce or import slaves into the state, as merchandise,
should be guilty of a misdemeanor, and be fined and imprisoned.
In the year 1835, of 1836, as stated in the record, -Robert
Slaughter, the defendant in error, introduced into the state of
Mississippi a number of slaves. It is admitted, and makes part
of the case, that they were so introduced and imported, "as merchandise, and for sale." They were purchased at Natchez, in
Mississippi, on the 20th of December, 1836, by a person of the
name of Brown, who had received two certain accommodation
notes endorsed for his use by the plaintiffs in error, Groves and
Graham. .In payment for the slaves purchased from Slaughter,
he gave him the two notes so endorsed, one for seven thousand
dollars, payable in twelve months after date; the other for seven
thousand eight hundred and seventi-five dollars, payable in
twenty-four months after date. It is admitted, that this proceeding took place without any agreement or understanding, express
or implied, between the two endorsers who now prosecute this
writ of error, and the parties to the note.
When the notes became due, the endorsers refused to pay
them, or in any way to become parties to a transaction which was
in direct violation of the 'laws of* Mississippi, and suits were
instituted against them in the Circuit Court of Louisiana. Evidence appears to have been taken relative to fraud and collusion
charged; but it was finally agreed to waive that question, and
to leave the case to depend upon the legality and validity of the
notes which were the consideration of the plaintiff's claim.
The District-Judgesitting as a Circuit Judge in the Court beloiv,
having decided that they were a valid consideration, upon'which
the plaintiff could recover, the co'rectness of that decision is now
to be examined.
It will thus be seen, that Slaughter, in the year 1836, and- in
thd state of Mississippi, sold to Brown slaves introduced br him,
as merchandise, and for sale, into that state, in the year 1835, or
1836; and that he received in payment therefor, these notes,
'endorsed by Groves and Graham, and still holds them..

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

Is this such a legal, valid, and binding contract between these
endorsers and the holder of the notes, as'a Court of Justice will
•enforce? To make a contract legal,'valid, and binding, it is not
scifficient. that there should be an agreement on one side, to do a
particular "act,as to pay a certain sum of money, on a certain
day; out that the consideration.of this agreement, 6r the act for
obtain-ig the performance of which it is made, should be, in
itself, legal and sufficient. Plowden, 5, 6, 17. 5 East, 16.
7 Durn. and East, 350. The-'act to be performed inl this .case
was the coxhpletion of a transaction, in'direct violation -of a provision-in the constitution'of the state of Mississippi, the place
of contract. It was, that Slaughter would sell to Brown, slaves
imported by.him into that state, in 1835, or 1836, for the express purpose of selling them; Slaughter thus selling them, and
Brown thus receiving them. in the .face of the constitutional
provision.
No-'language can niake suclh a transaction more certainly illegal, than that used in the present constitution of Mississippi. It
is an absolute and positive prohibition, going into full effect on
the 1st of May, 1833, and making, from that time, the introduction of slaves for the purpose of sale, a direct violation of the
fundamental law of that state. -An attempt has been made, on
the argument of the case in this Court to avoid the force of this
language; by construing it into a direction for future action by
the legislature, instead of regarding it as a present and positive
command, deferred'only in its operation for a few months. But
this construction cannot be sustained either by the language-of
the clause itself, or by a reference to tne language of other seetions of the constitution; or by a comparison with the provisibns
of the previous constitution of the state, and the acts df its legislature; or by the construction given to similar language, in,
other laws and public acts; or by the judicial interpretation of
this identical clause, by every tribunal of the state of Mississippi.
Thdre is nothing in the language of the section which contemplates future action to constitute the prohibition; what is
future relates merely to the time when the prohibition is to take
effect. Not intending to enforce immediate prohibition, present
words could not be used. To say that a thing is now prohibited,

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

457

[Groves et al. v. $Iaugbter.]

which is now permitted, involves great inaccuracy of language.
If, as was no doubt the case, the people of Mississippi intended
that a person might introduce slaves for sale until the 1st of
May, 1833, but that on'that day his right to do so should cease;
it seems difficult to imagine how they could have expressed their
intention in clearer language. They forbade it. There' is nothing in forbidding a thing to be done which fequirei future action.
Future action may be necessary to punish a-yiolation of the prohibition; but that is a matter totally different from the prohibition itself. The act of the legislature in 1837 makes a violation
of this prohibition an offence punishable by fine afid imprisonment, but this is not the prohibition-that is already complete.
Suppose this act of the legislature, instead of imposing a fine
and punishment, had gone no farther than the conititution
itself has done, and had enacted that such importation should be
prohibited after a certain day, will it be contended that when
that day arrived a still further law was necessary? A law contamining no penalty for transgression may be defective in its operation on the individual, but it is complete to establish the nature
of the offence. In Mississippi a traffic in slaves exsted which
the people of that state ddsired to stop. They declared that it
should stop after a certain day. They do not sdy a law shall
be passed to stop it, but they say it shall stop. If they had in*
tended to leave it to future legislation, they would have said
"may" be prohibited; but they do not do so. - - They:declare
that the act shall cease on that day. No legislative action is
necessary to complete the prolibition; it is at best surplusage;
.it can do again only what the convention has done before; it
can only say, as the constitution has said, this traffic shall stop;
if any thing was to be done on the 1st of May, legislative action
might be necessary; where there is nothing to be done, it cannot be. And hew fatal would be the consequence if it were
otherwise; if legislation is necessary to the prohibition, it may
be refused ; and thus we have that actually done which the
words of the constitution forbid to be done.
If we were even to admit (for the sake of argument) that
something is requisite to make the prohibition eomplete on the
1st of May; still, what is there to require it to be legislatTve
action? It is said that the introduction of slaves must be proVOL. XV.-2 Q
58

SUPREME COURT.
(Groves et a]. v. SIaughter.]

hibited on that day "by law."

of those words?

What authorizes the insertion

Why not fill the hiatus with the words "by

this constitution ;" or, "by the actior'of the Courts?" To assume there is a blank t&be filled, and then to fill it in the manner best suited to the case of the plaintiff, may be an easy way
to make the constitution favourable to his construction of it, but
can hardly be regarded the proper mode of interpreting a written
instrument. It is submitted, then, that ths is,.by its terms, an
absolute prohibition, existing, proprio vigore, on and after the
1st of May, 1833.
The constitution of Mississippi is full of phrases which
illustrate and confirm this View of the section in question. It
declares, that "the exercise of religious Worship shall be free to
all persons." Is a law necessary to carry this declaration into
efc(? It is true that, without a subsequent law, he wt o interferes with the exercise of another's worship may not be punished, but surely the privilege is derived, or the right is acknowledged, not under the law, but under the guaranty of the constitution, which is complete. So there are numerous prohibitory
provisions, directing that warrants shall not be issued without
certain prerequisites; that property shall not be taken, except in
certain cases; that offices shall not be held beyond a limited
term; that persons guilty of bribery shall be disqualified from
holding office; all these have a, future phraseology, especially
the latter; yet it will hardly be contended that the prohibition
was not absolute and complete without any further law. On
the -ther hand, where future legislation is necessary, it is so
provided. It is said "the judges of all Courts shall be couservators of the peace, and shall be, by law, vested with ample
powers." The authority is preselnt and immediate; the particular powers are to come from future legislation; and, in that case,
it is so declared. Again, in the clause which, per se, disqualifies fo r bribery, it is provided that the legislature may disqualify
for crime. Numerous similar clauses, contemplating future
legislative action, may be cited. But perhaps the strongest illustration is in the very article- on "slaves."
In that, all the
acts contemplated are future; yet some of them are to result
from legislation, (Rev. Stat. 34, 35;) some spring directly from
the constitution. Is it possible that this distinction is without

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

459

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

meaning? Is it possible that the constitution should permit a
discretion to the legislature in one clause of a section, omit it in
another, and 'permit it again: in a third, without evidently intending to make that distinction which is apparent from its letter.
The inference which thus results from tle language of this
provision, and from a comparison of it with' that used in other
parts of the same instrument, becomes more ceitain when we
examine the proceedings of the convention-that framed the con =
stitution, and of the legislature in regard to the clause in question. The former constitution made this prohibition a future
legislative act, just as it left the provisions in regard'to the emancipation and treatment of slaves to -be matters of legislation.
This was the only power in regard to slaves which the amended
constitution did not continue with the legislature. By what proper inference can we suppose they intended it should remain
with that body? The former constitution gave it to the legislature; the people altered the clause that did so; of course they
meant to establish the provision, independently of its action. So
they declared the prohibition should go into operation on the I1t
of May, 1833. Did they fix that early day, before which but
one short session of a legislature could occur; and yet give it an
option to defeat their express provision? Had they intended to
do so, would they not have used the language used in the Constitution of the United States, when they did intend to leave this
option to Congress; the importation "shall not be prohibited by
the Congress prior to the year 1SoO ?" Const. I. 9. So, when
the legislature desired to prevent the prohibition from taking
effect, they passed a law to obtain an amendment of the iew
constitution, although it had not yet gone into operation, so as to
restore this subject to the legislature, and permit them to enforce
the prohibition by law at their discretion; a change which the
people refused to confirm. Had that legislature considered any
further law necessary to enforce this prohibitory clause, their
proposed amendment was totally superfluous.
This idea, that the use of a phrase relating to.a future, event,
necessarily requires future action, has been repudiafed more than
once by this Court; and that not only in cases which, by merely
prohibiting a thing to be done, di not and cannot require a direct act, but in cases where a positive and affirmative result was

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

to arise from the language used. In the case of the Florida
treaty this Court said: "although the words 'shall be ratified
and confirmed' are properly words of contract, stipulating for
some future legislative at; they are not necessarily so. They
may impoft that they 'shall be ratified and confirmed' by
force of the instrument itself." It has been attempted to impair
the effect of this declaration by referring to the previous construction of .the same clause in the case of Foster and Elam v.
Neilson, ann to ascribe the change to a mere difference in the
translation of certain Spanish words: but surely this view is
not sustained. The question in both cases was decided on the
whole scope of the treaty provision; on the extent to which a
previous grait was valid after the cession; whether further
legislation was or was not necessary. In Foster and Elam v.
Neilsbn, it is true the majority of the Court held it to be so; but
Chief Justice Marshall and another judge held that the words,
"shall be confirmed," might be regarded as making the grants
as complete under'the government of the United States as under
that of Spain. When, afterwards, in the cases of Arredondo and
Percheman, the clause was more fully considered, with reference
to the laws of nations and the whole scope and bearing of the
treaty, this construction was given to them by the whole Court.
It is true that the Spanish version is referred to; but this is not
assigned as the reason of the change, but merely as evidence of
the correethess of the later construction. At all events, it shows
that the words "shall be" do not necessarily denote future action,
where the scope and intent of the instrument give them a present
and positive character. In the treaty of 1778 with France, it
was stipulated that the subjects of France "shall not" be reputed
tobe aliens; and in the treaty of peace in 1783 with Great Britain, the ninth article provided that British subjects "shall continue" to hold lands; these clauses were held to confer a present
iight to hold property. Ware v. Hylton, 3 Dall. _35.. The
United Stateg v. The Peggy, 1 Cranch, 109. S9 in the coLvention with France in iso , the stipulation that property"shall
be" restored was held to operate as an immediate restoration.
14 Peters, 412. If words, like these, forming a contract between
two nations, instead of being, as a state constitution is, an crdinance, an act of supreme authority, a decree--if words in a

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

461

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

treaty between two parties, providing for a thing to be done, can,
be construed, where such is the intention of the contracting parties, to have a present signification, who can doubt that these
words, merely prohibitory in regard to the conduct of the citizen,
are to be so construed?
And so has thought every Court of the state of Mississippi.
In a succession of cases, the construction of this clause of the
constitution has come before the different tribunals of that state.
Each has decided that, so far as the construction of this clause
was to be considered, it was unquestionably a prohibition,
proprio vigore, of the act of importation for purposes of
sale. Judge Nicholson, the presiding judge in one of the circuits of the state, is reported as having so decided, though we
have not the case before us. Chancellor Buckner, in the case
of Glidewell v. Hite, of which a MS. report has been read, decides
that the contract of sale is valid, because it is only importation,
not sale, which is prohibited: but he holds distinctly and uinequivo.
cally, that the prohibition (whichever it may bey is complete
under the constitution, and not dependent on any subsequent
legislative act. The'clause in the constitution, he says, " points
out, and defines what should constitute the eiil or offence
which the constitution intended to guard against and prolbibit.",
"I mean to declare," says the Chancellor, afterwards, "that
the moment the negroes were introduced as merchandise or for
sale, the offence was at once complete; no further step was necessary, to bring it within the intent and meaning of the pro"Suppose," he again
hibitory clause of .the constitution."
observes, "that the defendants had been indicted under the
clause of the constitution in question, would any thing have been
necessary to sustain the prosecution, further than the single proof
of the purpos6 of the act of' introduction, acconpanied with the
proof of offering them for sale." But the Court of Errors, the
highest tribun'al of the state, was still more emphatic. The case
of Green v. Robinson, was an appeal from a similar decision of
Chancellor Buckner. He had decided in favour of the validity
of the sale, on the ground that the prohibitory clause extended
only to the importation ; and also in favour of the defendant, because the plaintiff had neglected to avail himself, in a'suit at
law, of this defence. The Court of JErrors, in reviewing the
2
Qo

462

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et a]. v. Slaughter.]

Chancellor's decision, use the following language: "That it is
competent for the people in convention, to establish a rule of
conduct for themselves, and to prohibit certain acts deemed
inimical-to their welfare, is a proposition which cannot be controverted. And such rule, and such prohibition will be as obligatory as if the same had been adopted by legislative enactment.
In the former case, it is endowed with greater claims upon the
approbation and respect of the country, by being solerpnly and
deliberately incorporated with the fundamental rules of -the
paramount law, and thus placed bey9nd the contingency of legislation. It is difficult to conceive in what better or more
appropriate language the convention could have designated its
will, or declared -the principle of public policy intended to be
enforced. It has been argued, that this provision in the constitution is merely directory to the legislature. This interpretation
is opposed, as I conceive, to the plain language of the provision
itself, as well as to the obvious meaning of the convention. It
cannot surely be maintained, that this provision is less, a prohibition against the introduction of slaves as merchandise, because
it is not clothed with the sanction of pains and penalties expressed in the body of it. That belonged appropriately to the legislature. Their neglect or refusal to do so might lessen the
motives to obedience, but could not impair the force of the pro
hibition. It cannot be doubted that, if the legislature instead
of remaining inactive, had passed a law to authorize the introduction of slaves for sale, that such act would have been
void."
The language thus used, which is conclusive as to the judgment and opinions of the judicial tribunals of Mississippi, was
intended to settle, finally and decisively, the question of the
validity of these contracts. It was not extra judicial, for, though
the judgment of tie Court depended on other grounds, yet this
was expressfy brought under their review. The Chancellor declared that his judgment was so given, as to "put the point in a
train for ultimate decision," by the Court of Appeals. Nor
should it be forgotten that the opinion was delivered by Judge
Trotter, himself, as has been seen, not merely a member of the
convention which inserted this very clause in the state constitution: but one of those who voted, and preferred to leave to the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

463

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

legislature the authority of making the prohibition, instead of
thus inserting it absolutely in the fundamental law.
It is submitted that, under the well established rule of this
Court, these decisions of the judicial tribunals of Mississippi, are
conclusive of the present controversy. No point is more authoritatively settled than that the construction given to the constitution and laws of a state, not conflicting with those of the
Union, by the Courts of the state, will be adopted by this Court.
Green v. Neale, 6 Peters, 295.
And how is it attempted to obviate this clear intention of the
people of Mississippi, as derived 'from the plain letter of their
constitution; from a comparison of this, with other language of
that instrument; from a review of successive efforts made by
tlhem to effect this object; from that interpretation of their language which is consistent with the just and settled rules of construction; from the direct and authoritative exposition given by
their own Courts of justice? How is it attempted to obviate
this intention, thus expressed ?
It has been done,-by saying that the legislature of Mississippi
regarded the clause of the constitution, in 1833, as merely permissive to the legislature; and that Governor Lynch, in 1837, so
regarded it.
If this were so, would it be an answer? It was evidently the
wish of the legislature to retain a power that the people had taken
from them; they tried to obtain it by an amendment of the constitution; it is natural they should seek it, that mode failing, by
ingenious interpretation. If it were so, their construction could
avail nothing against that derived from the rules already stated.
But it is not so. The act of March, 1833, shows, the legislature thought an amendment of the constitution necessary to prevent the immediate and positive operation of the prohibitory
clause. The act of December, 1833, does not relate to those who
imported slaves for sale, iu violation of the law, but to transient
-merchants, or persons selling their own slaves.
As to the recommendations of Governor Lynch, they were to
give effect to the provision by adequate penalties. The sales
might be made for cash, the payment on delivery; in such case,
all the evils he adverts to would occur, and the contract be completed, notwithstanding.hb prohibition. So, too, in cases where

464

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et a]. v. Slaughter.]

the person seeking to discharge himself was he.who received
the slaves; a party to the illegal transaction; the Courts would
not interfere on his behalf; and thus the provision of the constitution would be violated. Cases like the present, where the defendantis ignorant of the transaction, and, from that circumstance, could readily receive the aid of a Court, might be expected
seldom to occur.
These objections, therefore, if they could have weight against
such arguments as those presented to sustain the constitution of
Mississippi, are not, in reality, when properly examined. objeclions to our construction of that instrament.
It may, then, be confidently said that, after the lst of May,
1833, it was unlawful, by the- constitution of Mississippi, to
introduce slaves into that state for sale, or as merchandise.
Was such a provision in that constitution a legal one in itself?
A constitution is the will, deliberately expressed, of the whole
people of a state; the most binding and solemn compact; original and organic; restrained in nothing which the people may
desire to introduce, unless so restrained by the previous compact
of the same people with their fellow-citizens of the rest of the
Union.
If, then, it has been shown, that the people of Mississippi did
prohibit-the importation of slaves, as merchandise, after 1st May,
183s" that prohibition Is binding and operative, unless it be contrary to the Constitution of the United States.
Is it so ?
It is said that it is, because the Constiftution gives to Congress
the power "to regulate commerce with foreign nations, among the
several states, -and with the Indian tribes." Is the prohibitiQn to
import slaves into Mississippi, for sale within that state, such'a
regulation of commerce among the several states, as Congress
had the sole authority to make? It is submitted1. That it is not a regulation of commerce among the states.
2. That if it were, it is one excepted from this-power of Congress, and remains in the state.
3. That if it were vested in Congress, it may also be exercised,
by the. state.
L The regulation of commerce among the several states has
been defined with such great simplicity, distinctness; and pre-

JANUARY TERM,- 1841.

465

v. Slaughter.]
(Groves et al.

cision by Chief Justice Marshall, that it is useless to speculate
upon it for ourselves. He says, in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheaton, 194, "It is not intended to say that these words
[to regulate commerce among the several states] comprehend
that commerce which is completely internal, which is carried on
between man and man ina state, or between different parts of
the same state, and which does not extend to or affect other
states. Such a power would be inconvenient, and is certainly
unnecessary. Comprehensive as the word 'among' is, it may
very properly be restricted to that commerce which concerns
more states than one. The phrase is not one which would
probably have been selected to indicate the completely interior
traffic of a state, because it is not an. apt phrase for that purpose;
and the enumeration of the particular classes of commerce to
which the power was to be extended, would not have been
made, had the intention been to extend the power to every
description. The enumeration presupposes something not. enumerated; and that something, if we regard the language or
subject of the sentence, must be the exclusively internal commerce of a state. The genius and character of the whole
government seem to be, that its action is to be applied, to all the
external concerns of the nation, and to those internal concerns
which affect the states generally; but nQt to those Which are
completely within a particular state, which do not affect other
states, and with which it is not necessary to interfere for the
purpose of executing some of the general powers of the government. The completely internal commerce of a state, then, may
be considered as reserved for the state itself."
Is it possible to conceive a case falling more clearly within
this definition? Is not this a commerce carried on between man
and man in the state of Mississippi? Is it not a matter that does
not affect other states ? Is it necessary for the general government to interfere for the purpose of executing its powers? It is
the importation of a slave; the sale of a slave. His being a
slave; his being a subject of sale, is a matter depending solely
on the state of Mississippi. It Is by the local law alone that the
subject-matter of importation and sale is created.. No other state
is affected by its existence or non-existence. It is not necessary
for any powers of the general government, that it should be able
59

466

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et a]. v. Slaughter.]

to enforce this sale or this importation, unless it has the power
not to regulate, but to create articles of commerce. It does
not differ, in principle, from the very common prohibition against
the introduction of lottery tickets, or of bank notes under a certain denomination. Whether these are, or are not articles passing
in trade in a state, depends on her own laws. Could Congress,
because they maybe articles of traffic, deprive a state of her right to
admit or exclude them? Suppose Mississippi had said, no negroes
shill be sold as slaves within her limits; can Congress interfere,
to abolish this, on the ground that it affects other states? That
will not be contended; yet, if it cannot, then its interference to
regulate tfte disppsition of them-the manner in which they are
to be dealt with; is assuming a power over a subject-matter which
the states themselves can abolish or create.
To avoid the force of this inference, a distinction has been
taken in regard to the importation of slaves into the slaveholding
and non-slaveholding states. But where is this distinction found?
Certainly not in the letter of the Constitution; certainly not in
its spirit. It is admitted, that the importation of a slave into
New York, where the sale as a slave, and his detention in
slavery are forbidden, niay be prohibited; yet it is urged, that
the importation of a slave into Mississippi, where his sale, when
so brought, is forbidden, cannot be prohibited. The distinction
is not to be sustained. Commerce is the traffic in articles which
are the subjects of traffic, either in the place from which they
are brought, or the place to which they are taken. If the place
from which they are brought is the test, then is every slave,
taken from: Virginia to New York, an article of commerce, and
any regulation by the latter in regard to him, is a vio]atioh of the
Constitution. If the place into which they are imported, determines their character, then is the privilege of the slave state, in
regard to their disposition as matters of commerce, as strictly
constitutional and complete as that of the free states.
On the prindiples, then, laid down, in the case of Gibboils v.
Ogden, this is clearly a matter of c6mmerce, depending on the
state laws, affecting the state laws, and not necessary for any of
the purposes of the general government.
But it is said that, being an importaticn of an article, it necessarily presumes intercourse, which is commerce. To that it is

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

467

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

answered, that mere intercourse, even between different states,
is not commerce ; it must be intercourse connected with, or
auxiliary to trade. Such is the evident meaning of the Court, in
the case of Brown v. The State of Maryland. But here this
necessary ingredient is prohibited; the article cannot be sold.
There is, therefore, no object upon which commercial regulation
can act.
In the only remaining case where this constitutional clause
was discussed, New York v. Milne, 11 Peters, 135, is there a
word found which sustains the idea that this power authorized
Congress to interfere with the traffic in slaves among the states,
or the regulation in regard to it? The reverse. That case most
ably examines the decisions of Gibbpns v. Ogden, and Brown v.
The State of Maryland. It shows that the former extended only
to the regulation of navigation, under an act of Congress, as a
branch of commerce; the latter involved the right of the state to
interfere, by a tax, with the taxing power of Congress. But farther than this, it (11 Peters, 136) sustains the very position now
submitted; that the regulation of commerce is intended to apply
to "goods," to the articles that are strictly merchandise.
Take, then, the construction given by this Court to this clause,
and it is evident that Congress cannot make commercial regulations about any thing that is not in itself commercial' property,
and so recognised by the state.
Now the state of Mississippi does not recognise these as property subject to sale-subject to commerce when thus imported.
It seems it does not fecognise them as Such property at all; they
are at the disposition of the legislature., under the act of 1822;
but at all events they are not property liable to commercial traffic,
when 5o introduced. In the cqse of the state of Mississippi v.
Jones, Walker, 83, the law of that state was established clearly
that they were the creatures only of positive law, not property
by any other right.
II. But suppose that slaves are to be so regarded, still, as a
regulation in regard to property brought into the state, these
prohibitory enactments are authorized.
This C6urt, in the cases of Gibbons v.Ogden, and Brown v.
The State of Maryland, had laid down the rule that a state might
do whatever was necessary to protect itself internally: its qua-

468

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et a]. v. Slaughter.]

rantine, police, pilot laws, &c., all relating to and connected with
navigation and commerce. But in the case of New York v.
Milne, 11 Peters, 139, this principle was more broadly and fully
enunciated. After declaring that the authority of a state is "complete, unqualified and conclusive," in relation to those powers
which refer to merely municipal legislation, the Court observe
that "1every law comes within this description which concerns
the welfare of the whole 'people of a state, or any individual
within it; whether it relates to their rights or their duties;
whether it respects them as men or'as citizens of the state."
This view clearly embraces the present case. The evils against
which the people of Mississippi desired to protect themselves,
have been fully pointed. out. Their determination to stop the
introduction of slaves without corresponding emigration; to guard
against the admission of the vicious through the deceptions of
negro traders, were evidently objects of proper municipal regulation, equally concerning the' welfare of the whole people of the
state, _id that of many an individual within it.
III. But suppose this to be a commercial regulation; not of
the class above referred to, but one which Congress might make;
still is the power of Congress exclusive or concurrent? It is not
meant to contestthe general principle assumed by the counsel of
the defendant, that, in matters clearly within the sccpe of those
powers and duties pertaining to the general government, it is exclusive ; but is this such a case? In matters which are legitimate
objects vf legislation by the states, they may exercise a power
as well as the general government. Each may levy taxes; each
may regulate passengers coming in foreign vessels; each may
improve navigable streams. Are not the powers now claimed
by the state of Mississippi of this class? Even if we admit.Congress might regulate them, could not that state also do so? And
if not, to what serious evils might it lead! Congress has nPver
yet acted on the subject; yet who can deny that it is a subject
that must have been acted on? It is submitted, therefore, on all
these grounds, that this is not a regulation of "commerce among
the states," according to the meaning of the Constitution; but if
it is, it is one that the states themselves havealso a riglit to make.
Nor should we fdrget that this is the settled construction given
from tl{.e earliest days of the government by Congress; by the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

469

[Grovys et al. v. Slaughter.]

states; and by the Courts of the United States and the states.
Congress, when it admitted the states of Alabama, Illinois, Missouri, Arkansas, as well as Missigsippi, approved of constitutions
having similar provisions in them. In nearly every'state of the
Union, laws of the same character have been enacted without
hesitation, even from the days of the revolution. They exist in
the free states, as well as the slave states, for the principl is the
same. If the right to forbid importation for sale does not exist,
how can it be exercised in a free state more -than in a slave
state ? The decisions of Cofirts of the' United States and of
.numerous states of the Union, recognising the-validity of laws
which depend on this principle, have been already referred to
so fully that it is unnecessary to dwell further upon them. Now,
it is respectfully asked, can thiis Court undertake for the first
time to give a construction to the Constitution which will set at
naught these constitutional provisions of the s;ates, these laws,
and this uninterrupted series of judgments of judicial tribunals ?
Yet it is in vain to disguise it, that this must be the effect of a
decision in favour of the defendant on this point of the case. It
would indeed be, as.was said, to sacrifice a hecatomb of laws.
And for what purpose-what good? Have not these regulations been safe, just, and prudent? Are they noL coilformed to
the feelings, opinions, and laws of the several states, whether
permitting or prohibiting slavery ? Would these be better*
suited by what Congress would do? On the contrary, would
not an attempt on the part of Congress, now for the first time
after a lapse of fifty years, exclusively to do that which the
states have always done themselves, strike a-blow at the laws
and. institutions of the states? Wrould the free states readily submit3 or would slave states? If such fate is reserved for the constitutions, laws, and judicial decisions of the states; if they ar6
all to be broken down, and a new power of regulation awaits
them; who can tell what may be its effect- on the institutions
and power of the Union itself?
On all t1hese grounds, therefore, it is submitted that this prohibitory 6lausq in' the constitution of Mississippi is not only clearly
expressed, but it is in itself a legal and constitutional vrovision.
The xext question is: was the conduct of the plaintiff below
intentionally at variance with this provision of the fundamental
VOL. XYeR

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

law? That it was, is evident when we take the whole transaction
together. The sale of the imported negroes formed necessarily a
part of the transaction, without whichfthe violation of the law was
not complete. It will be seen that the introduction of slaves into
Mississippi, from other states, is not forbidden. ' They may be
brought there by persons coming.to the state for a limited period,
or intending to remain there'permanently. It is only when brought
there to be sold that the constitution is violated. The evidence
of tlis object-the only violation of the law--is the gale, or the
offer to sell. IUntil that moment the crime is res infecta, an unaccomplished act: when the slave becomes the subject of a bargain, then it is that the introduction as merchandise is apparent,
and the violation of the law complete. Whether there might
not be an act indicating the intention and purpose for which the
slaves were introduced, other than the contract for their sale, it is
not necessary to discuss; when the sale follows it forms part
of the illegal transaction; characterizes the introduction; shows
its improper character; and so taints the whole bargain that, to
consummate it through the agency of a Court, would, in the
language. of Chief Justice Wilmot, "pollute the pure fountain
of justice."
Here, then, is a solemn provision of the constitution of Mississippi, and a transaction" of the defendant inerr6r yet unfinished, which is in direct violation of it. He now seeks to compel
the completion of this transaction; to accomplish the business,
for his own benefit, and in the face of the law of Mississippi, at
the expense of third persons, and through the agency of this
Court. 'Can he do so? That he .cannot, is a principle established by the law'rs of every civilized country. By the Roman law
(1 Pothier on Ob. 25. Story's Con. of Laws; 204) it was well
settled that where the foundation o a contract or a promise was
an act repugnant to justice, good faith,or morals, the promise could
not be enforced in d Court of justice. By the comm6rk law,' as
settled by repeated decisions of English Courts, wherever a
transaction contravenes the general policy or the express stipulations of the law, no form of expression is permitted to veil its
inherent impropriety; the real object of each party to the contract
will be examined, and if either is found to be aiming at that
which is repugnant to principles established for the general be-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.
[Groves et al. v.Slaughter.]

471

nefit of society, the Courts of justice will repudiate it, however
artfully the arrangements have been made to accomplish the
desired end. Where both have'been equally guilty, the Courts
have with equal pertinacity refused to interfere, though that refusallhas indirectly benefited one of the guilty parties. Casuists
in the law of nature and of conscience, have speculated on the
obligations which bind those who profit by such contracts to
fulfil them; but the common law, with a clearer and more
honest perception, has repudiated all such speculations, and has
refused totally and peremptorily to interfere.
It would be easy to trace this principle through a number of
adjudged cases, illustrated by every variety of facts, but this i§
needless. It will be sufficient to advert to a few of unquestione-d authority, which exhibit it under circumstances analogous to
the present case.
It is an established rule, to which no exception has been produced, that prohibited goods cannot form the consideration of a
valid contract; a principle laid dowil by Huberus; recognised
by Lord Mansfield, and never denied by one single authority.
Story's Con. of Laws, 209. That was the principle in Law v.
Hodgson, 2 Campbell, 147, in regard to the bricks; there the
making of such articles was forbidden; and every contract in
relation to them was void. That was the principle in Biflard v.
Hagan, 2 Carr. and Payne, 472, where the importation of the
silks was prohibited; and it was exactly a similar case to the
present, for it was a suit against the acceptors of a draft given
in payment of the articles after their importation.
The next principle, which also is indisputable, is, that wherever
the object of a prohibition is to protect the public, and not one
for.purposes of revenue, or some regulation connected with the
execution of municipal laws, there can be no recovery by a persol
who has committed an act at variance with the prohibition,
whether the act be the particular thing foibidden or not. In thiecase
of Steers v. Leshley, 6 Durn. and East, 61, the sale of stocks was
prohibited, as against public policy, and the Court refused to allow
a person to recover, who had advancqd money to pay a difference;
not actually to buy the stock. So in Langton v. Hughes,
1 Mau. and Sel. 563, the adulterating of beer was prohibited,
and the sale of articles to a person engaged in adulterating it,

472

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

was not deemed a ground foi recovery. •So in the case of Fales
v. Mayberry,-2 Gal. 560, the employment of vessels in the slave
trade was prohibited; and the purchase money of a vesse;
sold in a foreign country, after her employment ceased, could
not be recovered. There has been no atthority produced to
contradict this principle; yet, it- is completely applicable to our
case.
'The principle contended for by the defendant, is,.that in the
present case, the' contract is merely collateral, and not a part
of the illegal transaction. This is not so. It is clearly the only
rea part of the transactioi ; and the subtle train of reasoning,
by which it is attempted to show that it is not, is neither accordant to the morals or the judgment. But admit it to be correct;
it yet applies only in cases where the principles above asserted do
not exist. It does not apply to cases where there is a positive prohibition to import an article, or to do a certain act. In one case
already cited, I McClellan and Young, 122, neither party knelt
bf the prohibition, yet the sale was held to be void.
These are the cases at common law. Let us look to our own
decisions;
This Court has examined the same principle in several cases.
That of Hannay v. Eave, 3 Cranch, 242, was one where a resolutiol. of. Congress had declared that an enemy's vessel, captured
by her own crew, should ba a lawful prize to the captors. Eave,
the captain of a British vessel, during the war, found himself in
a sinking condition, and agreed with the crew, that 1hey should
put into a port of the United States, and libel the vessel as captors, and that he would hold a certain portion of the proceeds, in
trust for th4 owners. The vessel was condemned and sold, and
the owners sued the captain under this contract. This Court
denied their right to recover, because the contract was-against.
the resolution of Congress. In the case of Patton v. Nicholson,
3 Wheaton, 204, Patton became possessed (without any intercourse with the enemy) of a British license, in'time of war.
This he gold to Nicholson, (who had not assisted in procuring it,)
and took his note in payment. A suit was brought to recover
the amount. This Cotirt refused to interfere, to sustain the suit,
on the ground, thiat the procuring of such a license being unlawful, the sale of it was equally so. In the case of Armstrong v.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

473

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

Toler, 11 Wheaton, 258, the law upon this subject was very fully
examined. That was a case where goods were imported into the
United States, contrary to ltw, and consigned to Toler. They
were libelled, and, before trial, delivered to Armstrong; Toler,
the consignee, giving security for the whole, on agreement of Armstrong to repay him, if they were condemned. They were, and the
amount secured was paid by Toler, who sued Armstrong to recover
this amount. This Court sustained liis right to recover, on -the
ground that the agreement was unconnected with the illegal act;
and was a new contract; founded entirely on anew consideration,
and not affected by the illegal proceeding; but tlhat it would
have been otherwise, if Toler had been himself interested In the
goods illegally imported, or had been concerned in the scheme.
'They added "that where the contract grows immediately out-of,
and is connected with an illegal or immoral act, a Court of Justice will not lend its aid to enforce it,- And if the contract be,
in fact, only connected with the illegal transaction, and'growing
immqdiately out of it, though it be in fact a new contrant, it is
equally-tainted by it." In the case of Gaiiher v. The Farmers'
Bank of Georgetown, 1 Peterm, 07, the bank made a usurious
contract with Corcoran, who endorsed over to them, as collateral
security, a.note from Gaither to him, who had nothing whatever
to do with the transaction between Corcoran and the'bank. On
-this note, the bank brought'suit as endorsees, but this Court
refused to sustain their right to recover, on.the ground that it
was tainted and destroyed, by its connection with the usurious
and illegal transaction. In the case of Bartle v. Coleman,
4 Peters, 184, Bartle, a contractor for rebuilding a fort, made a corrupt agreement with Marsteller, the public agent, charged with the
superintendence of the work, and Coleman, to divide the profits;
Marsteller was to make the certificates, and Coleman to receive
the money from government and disburse it. The frauduleilit
character of the affair was discovered, and the contract dissolved.
Marsteller died. A suit was brought by Bartle, to obtain a
settlement of accounts between hiii and Coleman. This Court
refused to interfere, and declared that where a loss was the result
of a violation of the laws, the parties must be left to settle the
matter' between themselves. In the case of Craig, v. The state
of Missouri, 4 Peters, 436, Uraig purchased of the state certain
212

60

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

loan office certificates, emitted by the state, under a general
state law, but which were, in fact, bills of credit. For this purchase, he gave a note to the state, and this suit was brought to
re. over the amount. THis Court refused to sustain the demand,
because the issue of the certificates was a violation of the Constitution. It will thus be seen, that, by a uniform series of accordant decisions, the Common Law Courts of England, of the
states, and of the Union, have irrevocably 'fixed the great rule, in
regard to a remedy for violated contracts; that no plaintiff will
receive the aid of the Court, in prosecuting his claim, where it is
founded on a violation of the law, or an act contrary to public
policy. This rule asserted, more than a century ago, in the comprehensive language of Holt, when he said that "every contract
made for or about any thing that is prohibited by a statute, is
void;" receives in ,our own day its final stamp, from one of as
clear honesty, and- of broader genius, when he affirmed, and
maintained it, though the plaintiff and the contractor was a
sovereign state.
In no case cited or known, has this rule been infringed; never
has the'plaintiff been permi:ted to profit immediately or remotely
by the consequences of his violation of the -law. -In.some of the
instances adverted to, nice distinctions have been drawn, to
prevent a defendant, who was himself a participator, from escaping from his share of the loss; but even then, the. plaintiff has
been required to satisfy the Court, that the actual matter of
contract was but remotely or indirectly eonnected with the
illegal transaction, and that, if acquainted with, he was yet free
from participation in it.
In the present case, the rule applies with full force, and is met
by all the facts which are necessary to its complete recognition.
The party who seeks the benefit of this violation of the constitution of Mississippi, is he who violated it; the contract, if fulfilled,
gives him a reward, in an immense sum of 'money, for the successful accomplishment of that violation; it is done at the expense
of those who Were innocently made, to some extent, parties, if
not to the offence, yet to the transaction incident to it; the contract, the bargain, the sale, is part of the illegal act, since, without
that, there was but an imperfect violation of the law, confined to
the breast and inte'ntion of the plaintiff; it is, in ho sense, a new

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

475

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]
or separate proceeding; it is like the purchase of the bills of credit,
after they had been created by a law of Missouri; like the sale
of the silk goods; after they had been smuggled; like the"agreement to divide the proceeds of the captuie with those who were
not entitled to it; like the bargain for the bricks made contrary to
the provisions of the statute.
If any doubt could remain, whether or not theillegal act, the
violation of the constitution of Mississippi, was, in fact, the consideration of this contract-this promise on the part of the maker
of the.note, that doubt would be removed, by applying to it the
test of Lord Mansfield, and reversing the application and the
parties to the contract. If it be not a violation of the prohibition,
to enforce the payment of the sum f6r which these slaves were
sold, it would be lawful to have enforced their delivery to the
purchaser, had the importer stopped short in his course of iiqegal
proceeding, and refused to consummate it by completing the sale.
Who will assert this? Who will suggest, that any Court, would
lend its power for such a purpose? Yet if each side of the contract has, as it must have, equal weight, we must admit the
propriety of enforcing the delivery of the slaves, or we must
refuse to aid in compelling the payment of the sum for whicb
they were sold.
.But suppose that the actual violation of the law ended wire
ihe introduction of the slaves, dnd that the act of selling them
did not fall within the letter of its prohibition. Is it necessary
that the improper act should be a direct and literal violation of a
statutoryprovision? Certainly not. It was not so in any 6f the
cases cited. It was not so in that of Bartle v. Coleman, decided
by this Court. It is not held to be so in the annunciation of the
principle anywhere. If -the act be "against the p6licy of justice," it vitiates the bargain as fully as if it is contrary co the
letter •of the law. In Jones v. Random, 1 Cowper, 39, it was
admitted that the contract was against no law, bdit against morality and sound principles, and it was held to give no ground
for recovery. In Leerot v. Riley, 3 Durn. & East, 24,.where
there was no violation of the bankrupt law, but an act infringing
its spirit, the same rule was laid down. In Hunt v. Knickerbacker, 5 John. 333, it was held, that when any contract will
lead to a violation of law, in its execution, it is void; and, ii

476

SUPREME COURT.
LGroves et aL v. SIaughter.]

Sydenbdrg v. Charles, 4 Serg. & Rawle, 173, the Court said, no
form of contract could prevent an examination of its real nature.
To argue that to sell slaves, known to be introduced iu direct
violation of the constitution of a state, and especially to permit that
sale to be made by the person so introducing them, is "against the
policy" of that constitution, seems to be a work of supererogation.
What can better indicate the general policy of a state, in regard
to such an act, than the positive prohibition of the previous step
necessary for its accomplishmeift? What could show the policy
of the Constitution of the United States, in regard to selling bills
of credit by a state, more clearly than the prohibition to issue
them? Would this Court, then-even if the sale of these slaves
were not prohibited-would it interpose to protect an act, to
secure a profit from an act which is indisputably at variance with
the settled and avowed policy of the state, and known to be so
by the plaintiff below, when he made his bargain?
In conclusion, then, it is submitted, that the judgment of the
Court below was wrong; because the transaction, which formed
the consideration of the note sued on; was contrary to the letter
of the constitution of Mississippi, and contrary to the policy of its
constitutional and legal provisions; and because, in such a case,
Courts of justice will not interfere to enforce the contract, for one
party or the other.
Mr. Jones, for the defendant in error.
This case is of much importance in principle, and it is also so,
because of the very large amount of property which depends for
its safety on. the decision of this Court. Millions of dollars have
been laid out in the purchase of slaves, carried into the state of
Mississippi, from other states, for sale; without an ideaon the
part of the sellers or the buyers, that there was any law or constitutional provision which affected the transactions.
When the obligations, given for these purchases in good faith,
became due, after the elapse of long credits, a latent objection was
found to the contract. The purchasers set up a provision in the
constitution of Mississippi, which they said piohibited the dealing into which they had entered; that the obligations given by
them were therefor'e void: and they hold, and will hold, the
slaves they purchaied without making payment for them.
.The magnitude, and importance of the case are stated by the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

477

[Groves et aL v. Slaughter.)
counsel for the plaintiffs in error. The dangers of interference
with the prohibitions of the constitution of a state of the confederacy of opposing the, decisions of the Courts of the. state, giving
a construction to the constitution, which will be produced by this
Court sutaining the judgment of the Court below, are reprpsented
in strong and eloquent terms. All this is to arise from the legitimate action of the Court, which has the case properly before it;
and which will decide it according to their judgment, witVAout
regard to consequences.
Two cases are before the Court; and the counsel engaged forthe defendant in error have agreed to divide the points in the
cause between them. No discussion of the constitutional question, the right of Congress to regulate the trade in slaves betweeii
the states, is now proposed. This question will be left to the able
counsel, also representing the defendant---" The Ajax and the
Achilles of the bar"-will sustain the true interpretation of this
provision in the Constitution of the United States.
The case presents two heads for inquiry.
1. W¥hether there was, at the time of the contract an efficient
prohibition against the introduction of slaves, as merchandise,
into the state of Mississippi; and which can overturn a practice,
universally prevailing in the state, and which had the confidence
of every one, and the doubt of no one as to its legality?
2. Whether, if the constitution of Mississippi did prohibit the
introduction-of slaves, as merchandise, after the period named in
it, the construction of the jrovisiori is to be carried so far as to
abrogate'contracts for the purchase of that description of property, made after the slaves had been introduced into the state ?
The clause in the constitution is very short; and it is to be decided whether itis to be considered as an enacting provision, or
one enjoining legislation on the part of the legislative body;
whether it is a fundamental law, or one only organic.
The practice, under the Constitution of the United States, and
under the constitutions of the states, has been to leave to the
legislature to enact laws to carry the principles adopted in the
constitutiphi into operation. To assume that a constitution is to be
construed to carry into action the provisions it contains, without
the aid of special enactments by the legislative body, is out of the
usual examples. At the timq of the Revolution a different prac-

SUPREME COURT.
.[Groves et aL. v. Slaughter.] .

tice prevailed ; for then an old and established government was
to be set aside, and new and extensive provisions were necessarily to be made, which would go into immediate operation.
The assumption in this case is, that the constitution of Mississippi took on its'elf the exclusiveright of providing for the subject, and made a perfect and complete system, which was not to
be altered. It will be shown, in the course of the argument, how
imperfect and inadequate the provision was for the attainment
of its design.
Look at the provision, and inquire if -it is an enactmeht to
carry out the object it had in view. No penalty is fixed for the
violation of its injunction. No 'forfeiture is .imposed by it.
It stands a naked provision, an unsupported and unaided prohibition. We find no such form of provision in the English
system of laws. No prohibition is found among those laws
without forfeitures and penaltiss to secure their being executed,
if they are-to operate immediately.
It is said by the counsel for 'the plaintiffs in error, that this is
not a command to the legislature to make laws which will carry
the prohibition into effect. If this is admitted, the question is
settled. The provision in the constitution is, proprio vigore, in
.operation; -and it is to be aided by its own weakness.
What ar the means of enforcing the provision in the constitution, without legal enactments to carry it into effect? An.
indictment at common law, and the party bringing the slaves as
merchandise, to be punished by fine or imprisonmeit. To state
these modes of executing the constitutional provision, is to show
its inefficiency. It is said the prohibition in the constitution wag
made independent of legislative aid, from a distrust of the *legislature i and yet the whole execution of the constitutional declaration is to be left to the independent disbretion of the Courts. This
will not be admitted, unless there shall be shown in the constitution a positive inhibition of legislative action. The first constitution of Mississippi contained restrictions on
the introduction of slaves. It prohibited the bringing in of slaves
who were convicts; and there was legislation on the subject.
The circumstance that the provision was imperfect, is evidence
that it was intended by the new constitution that the legislature
should make complete regulations on the whole subject. If any

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

479

[Groves et a!. v. Slaughter.1

other view of the matter is admitted to be correct, nothing remained to be done by the legislature; and the object of the framers
of the constitution would, in a very great measure, be defeated
from the entire inadequacy of the provision.
The act of the legislature of Mississippi of 1837, shows that
the view taken by the counsel for the defendant in error upon
this subject is correct. . Under the constitution the legislature
were to act, and .this was considered as enjoined on them. They
did so, and imposed heavy-penalties on the introduction of slaves
for sale. This is evidence of the opinion of the legislature that.
they were to carry out the provision of the constitution; and that
without their aid it could have no operation.
The defendant in.error sustains the constitution of Mississippi.
He seeks to give it esiiciency, and-not to set up an absolute pageant, without a capacity to carry the object of its provisions
into effect.
The present constitution of Mississippi alters the situation of
the legislature from that in which it stood under the provisions
of the former constitution. Before, the legislaturehad a discreti6n to prohibit the introduction of slaves; now, a mandate to
them is given, and laws must be passed containing prohibitions,
and imposing all the penalties and forfeitures which may be necessary to carry the purpose into full effect.
Upon all the principles of legal construction and propriety, the
construction of the provision in the constitution looks to future'
acts of the legislature, and not to 'immediate effect. It shows
that legislative provisions were anticipated. The purpose was
to impose and enjoin on the legislature that laws should be passed
which would prevent the introduction of slaves as merchandise
or for sale. The policy of the state was thus solemnly settled;
and can it be supposed that the carrying out that policy wouldhave been left in the imperfect situation as to its enforcement, in
which the adqption of the consiitutional prohibition placed it.
, Let us inquire whether the provision in the constitution has
been construed in Mississippi by the legislature, and by the Courts
ot the state, so as to -enjoin on this Court the affirmance of the
construction ?
It might be assumed, that at the time the slaves were spld for
which the notes were given, there had bedn a general construe-

480

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

tion of the constitution, in accordlance with that which is now
claimed by ihe defendant in error. This was the condition of
publico inion from 1833 to 1837, when the legislature acted, and
carried the provision into effect.
The act of 1837; shows that in the opinion of the legislature a
law was required to carry the constitution into force. The intermediate period, from 1833 to 1837, .was employed in efforts to
obtain a repeal of the constitutional-enactment; and to restore the
provision in the first constitution. It was -not ascertained
whether these efforts had been successful until 1837. A vote
had been taken by the people of the state on the proposition to
restore the first prorsion; and the effect of the vote' had been
misunderstood, and continued so for some time.
During all the intervening time, the importation of slaves as
merchandise, or for sale, went on without interruption. The
Court will look with respect to the opinion thus manifested by
the people and authorities of the state, if a doubt as to the construction existed. The legislature acted on this construction.
The slaves thus introduced were made the special subject of
taxation, by legislative enactment.
The decisions of the Courts of the state of Mississippi have
been contraaictory, and the construction by those Courts of the
constitutional provisions, on the subject of the introduction of
slaVes, has not been conclusively settled. The cases cited by the
counsel for the plaintiffs in error, when examined by the Court,
will be found to sustain these positions.
It is the established principle of this Court that when there
have been a series of decisions of the Courts of a state on its
local law, those decisions will be -regarded and respected. But
the decisions must be those of the highest Courts of the state;
and, without exception, giving the same construction of the'constitution and laws of the state. Such have not been the decisions cited iii this case.
On the second point of 'inquiry, whether the provision in the
constitution of Mississippi was to be considered as operating and
in full force six months after it was adopted, so as to make invalid contracts for the purchase of slaves after their introduction;
Mr. Jones said, no queslion is more involved in difficulties than
that which arises upon the effect of prohibitory statutes to avoid

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

481

[Groves et a]. v. Slaughter.]

contracts made in opposition to them. There has been a great
diversity of opinion among judges on this question.
Whether the property introduced against the constitutional
prohibition was such as that a contract for its sale could not be
made, seems to depend on the character of the property. in Mississippi, after its introduction. The slaves so introduced did not
become free; They could- not be so by the laws and constitution of Mississippi. They did not belong to the state: no such
regulation had been made. The# were made the subjects of
taxation. Could they not be sold, and the penalties attach to
the importers; leaving the slavres the subjects of sale? Nothing
is seen in the laws or constitution of Mississitipi ,to prevent this.
Buying and selling the slaves, when" they are in this situation,
seems to be a right not to be denied. The authorities cited to
sustain the position that tbe contract is void because of the prohibition of the introduction of the slaves, are all cases in which
the forfeiture of the property was a necessary attendant" of a
'violation of the law.' They make the forfeiture a part of the
penalty. But, as has been remarked, the constitution of Mississippi did not make any such provision; all the cases turn on the
construction to be given to the provisions of the statutes, on the
violation of. which they have arisen. No general rule can be
deduced from them. The policy which may have induced the
statutes may require the forfeiture of the property, and thus
take from its previous owner the right or power to sell it.' The
final cause of the law could only be obtained by the prevention
of the use of the property, and, therefore, of its sale. But it was
not thespolicy of Mississippi to prevent the introduction of slaves
,as property, but only to limit their being brought into the state
by those who resided, or.proposed to reside in the state. Cases
cited "in this part of the -argument, 11 East, 108. 5 Taunton,
181. 1 Massachusetts Reports, 5. 1 Maule and Selwyn, 593.
4 Term Rep. 416. 5 Term Rep. 599. 3 Barn. and Alderson,
221. 4 Esp. Rep. 183. Strange, 1247. 2 burrows' Rep. 1077.
3 Term Rep. 419. Toiler v. Armstrong, 11 Wheaton. 1 Mass.
Rep, 1.38.

James v. Dumont, 5 Johns. 327.

4 Dal. 279.

Mr. Clay, for the defendant in error, said, the questions to be
decided in this case, involved more than three millions of dollars,
VOL. XV.-2 S

61

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et aL v. Slaughter.]

due by citizens of the state of Mississippi, to citizens of Virginia,
Maryland, Kentucky, and other slave states. The magnitude of
the cause is shown by the increase of slaves in the state of Mississippi, from 1830 to 1840. In 1830, the slave population was
about sixty-five thousand. In 1840, it had increased to upwards
of one hundred and ninety-five thousand. The greater portion
of this increase took place about the time the contracts on which
these suits were brought .were made. Within the period .of
seven years, from 1880 to 1837, the increase had been more than
seventy-four- thousand. A large portion of this number had been
introduced into the state as merchandise or for sale, by nonresidents.
The uriiversal habit of all the planting states, has been to buy
slaves on credit, leaving the product of planting to pay for them.
Tens of thousand of -slaves have been introduced, and contracts
made by citizens of Mississippi to pay for them onf time; and
now the question is, whether these contracts shall be extinguish-

ed, by an ex post facto construction of the constitution of the
state ?
What is the case, briefly? In 1832, the'constitution of Mississippi was altered, and a provision was made in it, declaring
that the introdhction of.slaves as merchandise, or for sale, should
be prohibited after May, 1893. No legislation took place to
carry out the prohibition. From 1832 until 1837, no one questioned the right to introduce slaves for sale; all concurred in
opinion, that the constitution did not, propri6 vigore,
prohibit
their introduction. The defendants in error, acting in conformity with this universal understanding of the constitution, introduced slaves for sale; paid the tax laid up'on them by an act of
the legislature of the state, after 'the alteration of the constitution; and the purchase of them was made by the drawer, of the
notes, under a full belief, that the contract was valid and obligatory on the parties who entered into it.
The slaves thus purchased are now held in hereditary bondage, and those who purchased theni are in the full enjoyment
of the property: no offer has been made by them to deliver
them back to the defendant iq error; on the contrary, this has
been positively refused. In this state of the case, this Court is

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

483

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]
called upon to ratify a violation of the contract, and to allow its
violators to hold the property.
What are the groundson which this claim is founded?
1. According to the interpretation of the provision in the constitution of Mississippi, the plaintiffs in error say the words
"shall be prohibited after the 1st of May, 1833," are. addressed
to the people of Mississippi; and being so, all slaves introduced
after that time cannot form the consideration of a legal and binding contract.
Is this a binding and operating prohibition, without calling
on the legislature to carry it into effect?
It will be shown, from the constitution of Mississippi, and from
the practical construction given to that c6nstitution, by cotempo.
raneous expositions of the provision in the constitution, tha; an
absolute prohibition of the introduction'of slaves, to go into effect
after May 1 1833, was not intended. The same construction of
provisions of a similar character, has Been given to the Coinstitution of the United States, and to those of the individual states.
A simple perusal of the constitution, wi I show and satisfy all
that its object was 'to direct what was to be done, and not to do
it. The nature of donstitutions is to establish and decl6re principles; and, exiept in some particular cases, to leave to the legislature the enactment of laws, to carry ou't the principles thus
declared.
The Constitution'of the United States uses the terms, "shall
be," in the sense claimed by the defendant in error. So does the
constitutioih of Mississippi. "Slaves" are a separate head in this
instrument, and the constitution addresses itself to the'legislature.
The Court will find many passages in that constitution which
support this position. In some parts of the constitution, a discretion on the subject of slaves is given to the legislature; but.
as to the introduction of slaves as 'merchandise, after May 1,
1833, a duty is imposed; and the legislature are commanded to
enact prohibitions, and-effectually to accomplish the object.
If the convention had intended this as legislation, would they
not have affixed- sanctions to the violation of it? Can it be supposed that the legislature intended to-give it this opeiationyand
to leave it naked, and unsupported by forfeitures and penalties?
Compare the constitution. of MisSissippi, with that of Ken-

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

tucky. They are nearly the same. That of Mississippi is
copied from the constitution of Kentucky. No decision can be
found that similar provisions of a constitution operate withoutthe action of the legislature.
So in reference to the provisions in treaties, a similar construction has been given. "Shall be" has beedi interpreted to enjoin
legislation: and this was the view of the Supreme Court, in the
case of Foster and Elam b. Neilson, when the Spanish treaty
was first under its consideration. Afterwards, when it was found
that the Spanish words of the treaty had a present effect, different views of the subject were adopted; but this did not alter
the decision of the Court interpreting the English words of the
instrument, as prospective, and requiring legislative aid.
Mr. Clay then went into an examination of the proceedings
of the legislature of Mississippi, after 1832, on the subject of an
alteration of this provision of the constitution. The proposition
for -an alteration, which would have given the legislature powers
to postpone the operation, of the interdict, was submitted to a
vote of the people of the state. It was afterwards discovered
that a sufficient number of votes in its favour had not been obtained. In the mean time, nothing was done to carry the provision into effect by law. In 1836, the legislature was called upon
by the Governor to pass a law, which was not done. A law
was passed in 1837.
In 1837 the Governor proposed again to the legislature to pass
a law. prohibiting by penalties and other sanctions, the introduction of slaves as merchandise; or in other terms to execute the
provision in the constitution as the declared and fixed policy
of the state. The legislature finding that the alteration which
had been proposed could not be made, and to prevent the drawing out of the state large sums of money for the purchase of
slaves, enacted the law which is now in force. Before the law
was passed, between May 1, 1833, and 1837, the introduction
of slaves as merchandise had the implied ratification of the
legislature. A tax Wras specially imposed on slaves so introduced.
This is plain and unquestionable proof of the opinion of the
legislature on this provision of the constitution. The act declares
that the introduction of slaves as merchandise shall be "hereby

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

485

[Groves et al.
v. Slaughter.]

prohibited," and imposes sanctions for the violation of this statute. Fines are to be imposed, and the imprisonment of importers is directed.
If, now, another construction is to ba given to the constitution,
the conduct of- Mississippi has been to lay snares for the citizens of Virginia, Maryland, and of other states.
Upon what construction of the constitution is the Court called
on to act? Not on their own. Upon the decisions of the Courts
of the state, where this outrage on justice is sought to be perpetrated. Is this Court a Mississippi Court, or a Court of the
twenty-six states? Is this Court to decide for itself, or to take
the deision of Judge Trotter of Mississippi for their rule of decisiori? This is a Court of the Union-of the whole Union-.
of the confederacy of the states of the United States; and it is
bound to construe the constitution of the state of Mississippi, not
by the construction given in times of passion,not on decisions given
which may have been biassed, by the large interests of the state,
supposed to be benefited by the decisions of the State Court, but
on great principles, and on those of justice and truth.
It may be admitted that this Court is bound by a series of decisions of Courts of a state, settling the construction of the constitution and laws of the state. This principle has been declared
frequently by this Court. But a single decision of a State Court,
ajid contradictory opinions of the judges of the Court, will have
no such weight or influence.
Who are the judges of the Courts of Mississippi, and what is
the tenure of their offices? They are elected by the pebple; and
the judges so elected form the Court of Errors: and a Court
thus constituted are called upon to decide a case affecting a
large portion of the citizens of the state, in which strangers to tlie
state, and who have no influence in, their appointment, are the
claimants! The judges of Mississippi are sitting in their own
cause; in the cause of those around them; of those who gave
and can take away their offices!
The object of the Constitution of the United States, in establishing the Courts of the United States, and giving to- those
Courts the decision of cases in which citizens of other states than
those in which a controversy arises, was to have such controver2s2

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

sies decided impartially, and without the influence of local bias,
or that of local Courts.
"I hope," saidMr. Clay, "never to live in a state where the
'
they hold
judges are elected, and where the period for,,hich
their offices is limited, so that elections are constantly recurring."
The eighteenth number of the Federalist shows the purposes for
which the-'tribunals of the United States were established. It
was intended to provide for the vexy case now before the Court;
for cases arising under a peculiar state of circumstance§. By
the Courts of the United States deciding independently upon true
principles, and according to the just interpretation of the constitution and laws of 'the states, the harmony and union of the
states would be preserved. The occupying claimant law of
Kentucky presented a case, on which the principles now contended for were applied by this Court. The law had been in force
for twenty years. It had received the repeated sanctions of the
Courts of the state of 'Kentucky. But this Court set aside that
law as between citizens of other states.
Mr. Clay went into a particular examination pf the cases cited
by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error: and he contended that the
question of the construction of the proviso in the constitution of
Mississippiwasnot,by those cases,shown to havebeen established.
The judges of the Courts-had not agreed in opinion. Some of the
cases had been decided-by the inferior Courts; and some of the
cases had been brought before the Courts of Mississippi, while
the whole of the people of the state were involved in great pecuniary embarrassments. He repeated his reliance on the positions, that such'decisions should not govern the Supreme Court
of the United States. While he positively and explicitly asserted
these views, he had no wish or intention to cast a shade on the
integrity of the jddges of the Courts of Mississippi. The security
of the slave states rests on the security and preservation of the
Union. Isolated, what would be the situation of Mississippi.
A skelch of the frightfil future will be avoided. Thousands,
millions would- now rush to the rescue of Ithat state from a ser-.vilwar. The genius of Fulton has givel the means of protection to the slave states: and in steamboats, on the beautiful
rivers of Ohio and Mississippi, the people of the Union, "armed

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

487

[Groves et al.
v. Slaughter.]

in proof," would hasten to the preservation of their brethren
of Mississippi; and of every state exposed to intestine commotioli.
Mississippi has not abandoned the introduction of slaves.
The citizens of that state may go into other states and buy
slaves. The only change which has been made is, that instead
of the, slave trade by strangers, the planter buys the slaves he
requires, and carries them into the state for his own use. After
they have been thus introduced, after they are thus in the state,
no objection to their sale can be sustained. The number of
slaves in the state may be increased by these means, indefinitely.
The right thus to introduce slaves is recognised by the act of
assembly of 1837.
- Is a contract made with a concurrent opinion of its legality;
as was the case between the defendant in error and the plaintiffs
here; where the property acquired by such a contract is retained, and the same protierty sold has, before sale, been taxed by an
act of the legislature, recognising its introduction into the state
for the purposes of sale; to be set aside? This appears to be an
outrage on the principles of common justice.
It is admitted that when contracts are immoral, they are void.
This is a general principle of all laws. The laws of heaven enjoin the avoidance of such contracts. All are bound to avoid
malum prohibitum; but the law must be known from the authorities of the state. If, by a new construction of the law,
persons are involved in penalties not before known, not before
claimed, the law is ex post facto. It is a violation of right.
This ground is taken, supposing the construction set up to be a
just one; yet if the course has been different, if the authorities
of .he state have acted on different principles, theproceeding is
ex post facto; the law, thus applied, is ex post facto.
What is prohibited by the constitution of Mississippi?
In considering this question, it is ne6essary to look at the situation of the slaves in Mississippi, carried into the state after May-,
1833, for sale as merchandise. Are they free ? 'If they were free,
it would be some consolation. But there is no freedom for such
persons in Mississippi: and those who purchased them, and seek
now to escape from paying for them, continue to h:ld them; and
against moral rectitude insist on their ownership, acquired by a

48S

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

violation of the constitution of Mississippi. It would be gratifying -tothose who love freedom, if the negroes were free. And
who does not love freedom?
They remain slaves by the constitution of Mississippi. By
that constitution there can be no emancipation but that which is
provided by law. A reference to the laws of Mississippi, and to
the decisions on them, will fully sustain this position. Laws of
Miss. 166. 154.

The offence of introducinig slaves, as merchandise, or for sale,
maybe considered as complete, under the prohibition of the constitution, if the construction given by the plaintiff in error is
correct, as soon as the introduction took place. If the slaves
continued to be property, and were hot made free by their illegal
introduction, contracts for their sale and purchase could be made.
This is an incident to property. It is, necessarily, a right which
the owner of the property has to sell it; to bequeath it. The
'slaves would have been liable for the debts of the defendant in
error, while in his hands unsold.
It is a well established principle, that if no forfeiture of 'property for an offence committed by its owner, has been declared
by the legislature, the judiciary cannot impose a forfeiture.
Cooper v. Telfair, 4 Dallas, 16. The judiciary cannot make
laws. When the statues declare forfeitures, no sales of the prohibited articles are -valid. Silks, by the express terms of an act
of the Parliament of England, might be seized "while rustling
on the fair form of beauty, in the maizes of the dance." 2 Carrington and Paine, 472. The case of Toler v. Armstrong, 11
Wheat. 258, establishes the principle that a contract may be
enforced which grew out of an illegal transaction, but which was
no part of it. There money paid for duties on goods, illegally
brought into the United States, was recovered from the owner
of the goods.
The last question in the cage is, whether the provision of the
Constitution of the United States, which gives to Congress,
exclusively, the right to regulat6 commerce between the states,
is opposed by the constitution of Mississippi.. The argument for
the plaintiffs in error, is on the abolitioi side of the question.
The counsel for-the defendant sustain the opposite principle.
I The object of prohibition in the Constitution of the
United

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

489

[Groves et al.v. Slaughter.]

States is to regulate commerce; to sustain it, not to annihilate it.
It is conservative. Regulation implies continued existence-life,
not death; preservation, not annihilation; the unobstructed flow
of the stream, not to check or dry up its waters.
But the object of the abolitionists is to prevent the exercise of
this commerce. This 's a violation of the right of Congress under
the Constitution.
The right of the states to regulate the. condition of slaves
within their borders, is not denied. It is fully admitted. Every
state may, by its laws, fix the character and condition of slaves.
The right of Congress to regulate commerce between the different
states, which may extend to the regulation of the transportation
of slaves from one state to another, as merchandise, does not
affect these rights of the states. But to deny the introduction
of slaves, as merchandise, into a state, from another state, is an
interference with the Constitution of the United States. After
their introduction, they are under the laws of the states.
Nor is the power, given by the Constitution of the United
States to regulate commerce, one in whieh the states may participate. It is exclusive., It is essentially so: and its existence
in this form is most important to the slave-holding states.
Mr. Webster, also for the defendant in error.
.Mr. Webster contended that the construction of the constitution of Mississippi had not been settled by the Courts of the
state, and was yet an open question. Contradictory opinipns
are"entertained by the judges of the Courts of Mississippi upon
the construction of the provision relative to the introduction of
slaves before the act of 1837. In the cases cited by the counsel
for the plaintiffs in error, this is apparent. While this Court
pays great attention to the settled construction of the laws and
constitution of a state, as the same is shown'by the uniform and
settled decisions of the Courts of the state, it cannot admit the
authority of cases not of this character.
The case before'the Court is recent. It was depending here
before any decision had been made in the Courts of the state,
on the points involved in it. Such -decisions have not the same
authority as those of a fixed and established character.
When the contract on which this suit was brought was made,

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

no construction like that now claimed had been given to the
provision in the constitution. The contract was made, in the belief of all the parties to it, that i; was valid and legal. The
attempt to avoid it, is to give a'retroactive effect to new views
of the provision.
For what purpose, but for such as is exhibited in this case,
was the judicial power given to the Courts of the United States,
)o be exercised in controversies between the citizens of different
states? This was the very object. It was intended to give the
citizens of one state a power to sue citizens of another state, in
an 'independent trilunal. Now, it is contended, that. when a
citizen of Virginia sues in a Court of the United States, he is to
be bound by the decisions of the state tribunals. This defeats
the provision in the Constitution of the United States. It is a
mockery, if this is to be the law. Under the circumstance.3 of this
case, it may safely be said, that, in the matter now before the
Court, the decisions of the Courts of Mississippi should have less
weight than those of any other Court.
It was from a distrust of state tribunals that the provision of
the Constitution of the United States was introduced. The
Constitution looks to principles, not to persons. It creates an
independent tribunal where, without its provisions, it would not
exist. The opinions of the Courts of Mississippi are justly entitled to high respect, as arguments; and the personal character of the judges of those Courts entitle them to great consideration; but beyond these concessions to them, this Court will
not go.
1. What is the true meaning of the constitution of Mississippi,
as to the introduction of slaves, as merchandise, for sale ?
2. Is that Provision conformable to the Constitution of the
United States?
As to the first question, it is contended that the words of the
provision in the constitutio of Mississippi are injunctions on
the legislature; and until the legislature shall act, there is no
prohibition of the introduction of slaves into the state, as merchandise, or for sale.
The words are, "shall be prohibited." There are three
modes or forms in which "shall be" may, or ought-to be understood. Each is according to the subject-matter, They may

JANUARY TERM) 1841.

491

et al. v. Slaughter.]
[G voes

impose legislative enactments. 2. Enjoin a duty. 3. They may
be promissory as to future action, under the constitution.
Different interpretations are given to these words ihthe same
.constitution. The Constitution of the United States declares
there shall be universal toleration of religion; there shall be
provisions for education; the boundaries of states shall be ascertained; the judicial power of the .United States shalrbe vested
in certain Courts. Thus, the terms impose duties on the legislature fo carry into operation the principles established; regulate
and fix the extent of legislative powers; and prescribe the
manner, in some instances, in which the legislature shall act. -It
is repeated: the meaning of the constitution is to be found out
by the context, and the subject-matter.
It is contended that every thing on the-subject of slaves, is
left, by the constitution of Mississippi, to the legislature.
Take the words of the section together, and the sensp is clear.
Does th6 section prohibit, by its own terms, the introduction of
slaves, by settlers, in 1845 ? The words are, that actual settlers.
"shall not be prohibited" introducing slaves, until after 1845.
Is not this a plain injunction on the legislature not to enact laws
interfering with the rights of settlers, before 1845 ? It is not in
itself an enactment.
Why was the provision as to the introduction of slaves, as
merchandise, for sale, put six months forward; six inonths
from the adoption of the constitution? It was to allow time
fQr the legislature to act: it was to give the legislature one
session in which laws might be passed. This was the only
reason. In the intervening period, the legislature was to be in
session.
In that session, the legislature took up the subject; and -what.
was done? 'An amendment of the -constitution was proposed.
No law was passed to carry the provision into operation. S6
much for the words of the provision in the constitution of Mississippi.
2. As to the subject-matter. Does it appear that the constitution supposed it was completing its own end, by its owft authori*ty; or does it look to legislation? Does ii execute itself? It is
clear, that if it was intended to be in itself a law which would
carry into effect the principle declated by it, that it would have

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et a]. v. Slaughter.]

gone further; it would have made provisions which would secure
its execution.
Now, in itself, as it stands in the constitution, it is entirely
powerless and nugatory. The importation of slaves as merchandise, for sale, was to be prohibited after a fixed period. How
prohibited? Howprevented? Forfeited, if brought into the state?
No such provision. Emancipated? No such provision. The
slaves were not to be set free. Neither of these results would
follow; and the constitutional declaration, without penalties and
further provisions, was a dead letter; a nullity. 'It could have
no operation when the sale of the slaves was made by the defendant in error; far less could it affect a sale on credit, as was
the case before the Court. Slaves might be sold for cash, if
brought into the state as merchandise, ad libitum. Thus, the
provision in the constitution could have no operation, but in
cases where the confidence between the seller and the purchaser would seem to give them greater protection from its influence.
If the construction of the words of the constitution claimed by
the plaintiffs in error, standing alone, produces these results,
another interpretation should be adopted; one of a practical
character; one which will execute the purposes of the same;
one which will not be at war with honesty, and just principles.
How did the people of Mississippi understand the provision in
the constitution? This is a proper method of interpretation.
They made the instrument; how did they construe it?
A constitution stands on different ground, as to its interpretation, from a statute; a statute is to be construed by the Courts,
which are intrusted with its execution. A constitution is to
stand as it is adopted by the people, from whom it has all its
weight and authority. If we have clear evidence to show how
the people of Mississippi understood this provision, this should
prevail.
Suppose a bonstitution will bear two constructions, may not
that in which it was understood by the people prevail, and be
received as the best, and as the true construction ?
The constitution of Mississippi was adopted on the 26th of
October, 1832 ; and it provided that the introduction of slaves, as
merchandise for s.le, should cease on the-1st of May, 1833.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

493

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.)

Instead' of legislative enactments to carry the provision into
execution, at the succeeding session of the legislature, opinions
were strongly against the prohibition. An amendment to the
constitution, abrogating it in reference to the subject, was introduced, and two-thirds of the legislature concurred in it. It was
submitted to the people. It was not adopted, because a sufficient
number of the citizens of the state did not vote upon it; but it
was approved of by a majority of those who did vote. The
constitution required that an amendment should be made by a
majority of all the voters in the state.
In December, 1833, the legislature passed a law, laying a tax
on slaves introduced for sale. The law required that a bond for
the tax should be given by all transient persons, who were the
vfndors of slaves. This law is an acknowledgment of the legality of their introduction, of the sale of them by those who
may have introduced them: provided, the bond to pay the tax
was given. This law was passed when it was well known the
proviso in the constitution existed; it was passed after May 1st,
1833; and when'the defendant in error, a non-resident, was notorious for the introduction of slaves, as merchandise for sale.
Under this law, it is submitted that it was competent for any
person to bring in slaves for sale, paying the tax on them. It
was under this law the' defendant in error acted. The act was
an invitation to bring slaves into the state, as merchandise for
sale; they were brought; the tax, was paid; the slaves were
sold, and notes taken for the payment of a part of the purchase
money: and after this, the prohibition in the constitution' is set
up, making it declare the contract for the payment of the note
void! The slaves are held by the purchaser,.and no offer is made
to return thein; they are held under the purchase, and nbt paid
for! An attempt is made to give the prohibition blood and
muscle to hold the slaves without pairing the debt contracted for
their purchage!
In 1837 the Governor of the state submitted to the legislature
the propriety of prohibiting the sale of slaves by'non-residents.
In his message he expresses doubts of the operation of the constitutional prohibition, and suggests that a law should be passed
to give it effect. The law was passed in ] 837. The law is " to
prohibit the introduction of slaves as merchandise for sale."'
VOL. XV.-2 T

494

SUPREME COU3RT.
(Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

This was carrying into execution the constitution. No opinion
was expressed, that the legislature thought the constitution hitd
made the prohibition effectual. This act recognises the construction of the provision contended for by the defendant in
error. The act provides that if any one shall hereafter 'introduce slaves for sale, &c.
The act proves: 1. That the people of the state did not
understand the provision in'the constitution as operative, until
the legislature should act upon it. That it imposed a duty upon
the legislature to act. That all persons had g6ne-on as if no prohibition was in force, until the legislature should pass a law;
slaves having been constantly introduced for sale, and sold; the
provisions of the law of 1833, as to the payment of taxes, having
been complied with by those who introduced them as merchandise for sale.
Is the provision of the constitution of Mississippi, conformable
to the Constitution of the United States?
The Constitution confe.s on Congress the right to regulate
commerce. The extent ard effect of this grant of power has
often been discussed in this Court; but all questions upon it are
now fully settled. In the case of Gibbon v. Ogden it was decided, that it extends to all commerce between state and state.
It was held that the whole subject of commercial regulation was
takdn from the states, and placed in the hands of Congress.
This must be so, or the whole provision would be inoperative. Nothing,-which is a regulation of commerce, can be affected
by state laws. Regulation is in what" it is considered best to
leave free, :and exempt from rule. Freedom of regulation, is
regulation. Not declaring how action shall take place, allows
the action to be, performed.
But interior rights, not commercial, may be regulated by the
states. If there was no provision in the Constitution of the
United Stat6s giving to Congress the power to regulate commerce, and an act was passed by'a state prohibiting the introduction of slaves for sale, would it not be an interference with
commerce between the states?
The powers conferred'on Congress, are duties; and they are to
be exercised for the good of the states. What is the foundation
of the right to slaves? There is no law declaing slaves pro-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

495

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

perty any more than land. Slaves are property by the term
"slaves." . The master has a right to their services and labour.
This is property.
The Constitution recognises slaves as property. Slaves escaping from 'the state in which they are held to service and labour
may be arrested in other states, and carried back to the state
from which they escaped. The right to take them up, is an acknowledgment of the right of property in them. The Constitution was adopted during the existence of slavery in more than
one-half of the states; and thus the protection of this right of
property in the intercourse between the states became a. duty
under the Constitution.
While the right and duty in Congress, under its power and
duty to regulate commerce between the states, extends to slaves
as articles of commerce between the states so long as slavery
exists in the states, when slavery is abolished in a state, Congress has no privilege to interpose : in such states, Congress has
no power to interfere with the state-regulations as to slavery.
If the right in states recognising slavery exists to prohibit trading in them, it will allow non-intercourse between the states of
the Union by the legislative enactments of the states; and will
authorize retaliation. This is' negatived by the decision of this
Court in Gibbon v. Ogden; and the question is closed. The New
York law gave an exclusive right of navigating the waters of
the state, by steamboats, to certain persons. The law of New
York was made void by the decision of that case. The same
result will attend the proviso against the introduction of slaves
in the constitution of Mississippi, when the constitutionality of
the same shall be brought, necessarily, before this Court.
The Court .are called upon to say that the state of Mississippi
may prohibit the transportation into that state of any particular
article. The Court will be obliged to find out something in the
introduction of slaves different from trading in other property.
This will be difficult.
Suppose, inder some excitement, the introduction of cotton
into the state of Massachusetts had been prohibited,,and this
was retaliated by a prohibition of the introduction into a cotton
planting state of cotton fabrics. Would not this be an interference with the power of.ongress to regulate commerce? Slaves

496

SUPREME. COURT.
[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

are as much property in Mississippi and in Carolina, as cotton.
All the states have not slaves, nor do all the states plant cotton.
Can states interfere with the introduction of articles which Congress have left free? There are exceptions; such as quarantine
regulations, pilotage; but the subject of this inquiry is different.
The prohibition of the constitution of Mississippi is a regulation
of commerce, intercourse, inerchandise.
.The strongest motives to establish the Constitution of the United.
States, was the regulation of commerce and intercourse between
the states,and with foreign states; to make the United States,in this
respect, a unit. It may not be easy to draw the line so as to distinguish what may and what may not be an interference with the
provisions of the Constitution of the United States. But thisisnot
such a case. This is a clear case. In any matters of the sale
and phrchase of property, the states cannot interfere.
The opening and concluding arguments of Mr. Walker, for the
plaintiffs in error, prepared with great ability and care by himself, wdre found too large to be included in the body of the report. They are inserted in this volume, as an appendix, with
the approbation of Mr. Walker.
Mr. ustice THomrsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
On the 5th of April, 1838, a suit was commenced by the
defendant in error, against the plaintiffs in error, in the Circuit
Court of the United States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana,
upon a note, a-cbpy of which is set out in the record, as follows:
"Natchez, December 20th, 1836.
Twelve months after date, I promise to pay to. R. M. Roberts,
or order, the sum of seven thousand dollars, for value received,
payable and negotiable at the Commercial Bank of Natchez,
Joini W. BiQwN.
state of Mississippi..
Endorsed by.
R. M. RoBrE'Ts,
MosEs GRovEs,
JAMiES GRAHAM.

In the course of the proceedings in the cause, the following
agreement, or admitted statement of facts, was entered into between the parties.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

497

[Groves et a]. v. Slaughter.]

"In this case, it is consented that the question of fraud is
waived by. the defendants, except as hereinafter reserved. The
case is to be defended, solely, on the question of the legality and
validity of the consideration for which the note sued on was
given. It is admitted, that the slaves for which said. note was
given, were imported into Mississippi, as merchandise, and for
sale, in the years 1835 and 1836, by the plaintiff; but without
any previous agreement or understanding, express or implied,
between the plaintiff and any of the parties to the note; but for
sale, generally, to any person who might wish to purchase. The
slaves have never been returned to the plaintiff, nor tendered to
him by any of the parties to the note sued on."
Whereupon, the Court gave judgment for the plaintiff below
fdr seven thousand dollars,, with, the interest and costs. And this
judgment is brought here by writ of error, for revision.
It will be seen from this statement of the case, that the defence
rested entirely upon the alleged illegality of the consideration in
the note. And the validity of the defence must turn upon the
construction and operation of the following article in the constitution of Mississippi, adopted on the 26th of October, 1832.
"The introduction of slaves into this state, as merchandise, or
for sale, shall be prohibited, from and after the first day of May,
eighteen hundred and thirty-three: Provided, that the actual
settler, or settlers, shall not be prohibited from purchasing slaves
in any state in this Union, and bringing them into this staie for
their own individual use, until the year eighteen hundred and
forty-five."
It has been urged on the argument, by way of preliminary
objection to an examination of the construction of the constitution,
that this article has received a judicial interpretation in the Courts
of Mississippi, which, according to the doctrine of this Court,
with respect to state decisions upon their own laws and constitutions, will control the judgment of this Court upon this
question. It becomes necessary, therefore, to look into those
decisions, to see whdtlier there has been such a fixed and settled
construction given to the constitution as to preclude this Court
from considering it an open question.
The case chiefly relied upon is that of Glidewell and others v.
Hite and Fitzpatrick, a newspaper report of which has been
2 T2
63

498

SUPREME COURT.
(Groves et aL v. Slaughter.]

furnished to the Court. It was a bill-in equity filed some time in
the year 1839, since the commencement of the suit now before
this Court, arid the decree of the Chancellor, affirmed in the
Court of Appeals by a divided Court, since the judgment was
obtained in this cause. But if we look into that case, and the
points there discussed, and the diversity 6f opinion entertained
by the judges, we cannot consider it as settling the construction
of the constitution.
It was a bill filed in the Court of Chancery to enjoin a judgment recovered at law, upon a bond for the purchase of slaves
introduced in that state after the 1st of May; 1833. The Chantcellor refused to continue the injunctionl, on the ground that
the matter relied upon to obtain the injunction should have been
set up as a defence, in the suit at law; and this view of the
case, he adds, might be decisive; but another question of some
moment is raised, which must frequently arise in our Courts, and
which it is well to put in a train for ultimate decision: clearly
announcing that the question he was about to discuss was not
involved in the decision of 'the case before him, and of course
all opinion which he might express would be extra judicial. He
then proceeds to examine the constitution in reference to its
operation on the bond upon which the judgment at law had
been obtained; and concludes, that the violation of the constitution consisted in the introduction'of the slaves, and not in the
sale, and that, therefore, a subsequent sale after the introduction was not unlawful, and of course the bond given for the
purchase was not void, on the- ground of illegal consideration:
and he adds,'if the contract should be considered void, the defendants would be entitled to the negroes; for, although their
introduction might be illegal, and subject the party to criminal
prosecution, yet thle title to the negroes would not be forfeited.
And to show more fully, he says, his understanding of the constitution: "I mean to declare, that the moment the negroes were
introduced as merchandise, or for sale, the Offence was at once
complete : no further step was necessary to bring it within the
intent and meaning of the prohibiting clausk of the constitution;
that it Was perfectly immaterial whether the negroes were or
were not sold, or offered for sale atterwards; such, act would
not in any way affect its legal character.-"

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

499

[Groves et aL v. Slaughter.]

The case went upto the Court of. Appeals, and was there
affirmed, by a divided. Court, two only of the judges being present: Judge Trotter concurring with the Chahcellor, that. the

defence should have been made in the suit at law; but the other
judge dissented upon this point. This was of cdurse the only
question in judgment in that case; and whatever opinions might

have been expressed upon other questions, they were extra judicial.

Judge Trotter went into an examination of the questions

suggested by the Chancellor, and differed entirely from himas
to the effect and operation of the prohibition in the constitution.
He considered the.sale ot the slaves the great object intended by
the prohibition, with a view to suppre.ss the slave trade in
that state. But he thought it immaterial to inquire whether the

constitution be considered merely directory, or containing within
itself an absolute prohibition.. In either case he thought it fixed
the policy of the state on the subject, and rendered illegal the
practice designed to be suppressed. Had Judge Trotterfconcurred with the Chancellor in his views of the constitution, the
decree of ihe Chancellor must have been'reversed. Thus we
see the different views taken by the Courts in -Mississippi, a tothe object, policy, and effect of thiis ;article in the constitution.
And as the whole of this discussion arose upon points not .necessarily involved in the decision of the case before the Court, it
may well be considered as extra judicial. It is unnecessary for
this Court to express any opinion, as to the correctness of 6ne or
the other of'the views taken by the different judges. But this
difference of opinion is certainly sufficient to justify this Court in
considering that the conistruction of .the constitution in thal
state is not so fixed and settled as to preclude us from regarding
it an open question.
The question arising under the constitution of, Mississippi is,.
whether this prohibition, per se, interdicts the introduction of
slaves as merchandise, or for sale, after-a given time; or is only
directoxy to the legislature, and requiring their action in order
to bring it into full operation, and render unlawful the intrQduction 'of -slaves for sale at any time prior to the act of the I3th*of
May, 1837.
The language of the constitution is, "te

introduction of slaves

into this state as merchandise, or for sale, shall be prohibited from

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al.
v. Slaughter.)

and after the 1st day of May, 1833;" with an exception, as to
such as may be introduced by actual settlers previous to the
year 1845. This obviously points to something more to be done,
and looks to some future time, not only for its fulfilment, but for
the means by which it was to be accomplished. But the more
grammatical -construction ought not to control the interpretation,
unless it is warranted by the general scope and object of the provision. Under the constitution of 1817, it is declared that the
legislature shall have power to prevent slaves being brought into
the state as -merchandise. The time and manner in which this
-was to be done, was left to the discretion of the legislature.
And by the const.itutiop of 1832, it was no longer left a matter
of discretion when this prohibition is to take effect; but the 1st
day of May, 1833, is fixed as the time.- But there is nothing
in this provision which looks like withdrawing the whole subject
from the action of the legislature. On the contrary, there is
every reason to believe, from the mere naked prohibition, that it
looked to legislative enactmehts to carry it into full operation.
And indeed this is indispensable. There are no penalties o
sanctions provided in the constitution for its due and effectual
operation. The constitution of 1832 looks to a change of policy
on the subject, and fixes the time when the entire prohibition
shall take effect. And it is a fair and reasonable conclusion that
this was the only material change from the constitution of 1817.
It will not answer to say this arose from any distrust of the
legislature. Such a supposition would be entirely gratuitous,
and a reflection that could not be justified. And, besides, if any
such'conjecture is to be indulged, it is inconceivable why some
further provision was not made in the constitution to insure obedience to the prohibition, by declaring the effect of a violation
thereof. Admitting the constitution is mandatory upon the legislature, and thit they have ncglected their duty in not carrying
*itinto execution, it can have no effect upon the construction of this
article. Legislative provision is indispensable to carry into effect
the object of this prohibition. It requires the sanction of penalties to effect this object. How is a violatioil of this prohibition
to be punished? Admitting it would be a misdemeanor, phunishable by fine, this would be entirely inadequate to the full execution of the object intended'to be accomplished. What would

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

501

(Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

become of the slaves thus introduced? Will they become free
immediately upon their introduction, or do they become forfeited
to the state? These are questions hot easily answered. And
although these difficulties may be removed by subsequent legislation, yet they are proper circumstances to be-taken into consideration, when we are inquiring into the intention of the convention in thus framing this article. It is unreasonable to suppose
that if this prohibition was intended, per se, to operate without
any legislative aid, that there would not have been some guards
and checks thrown around it to insure its execution. But if it
is considered merely directory to the legislature, it is open to all
necessary provisions to accomplish the end intended. The proviso in this article, that actual settlers "shall not be prohibited"
from bringing in slaves for their own use until the.year 1845
must necessarily be considered as addressed to the legislature,
and must be construed as a restriction upon their power. The
enacting part of the article, "shall be prohibited," is also addressed
to the legislature; and is a command to do a certain act. The
legislative enactments bn this subject strongly fortify the conclusion that this provision in the constitution was not understood
as a prohibition per se, but only directory to the legislature. On
the 2d of March, 1833, which was previous to the time when
this prohibition was to go into operation, a law was passed to
alter and amend this artiale, as follows: "the legislature of this
state shall have, and are hereby vested with power to pass from
time to time such laws, regulating or prohibiting the introduction
of slaves in this state, as may be deemed proper and expedient."
This required, under the constitution, the concurrence of twothirds of each branch of the legislature. Notice was accordingly
given, as required by the constitution, to take the sense of the
qualified electors of the state upon the proposed amendment. It,
certainly could not have been the undertanding of the legislature that the prohibition in the constitution was actually in full
force and operation from the 1st of May, 1833, whilst these pro-.
ceedings to obtain an amendment of the constitution were going
on; and, especially, when, in December, 1833, a law was passed
laying a tax on slaves so brought in. This would be an.upreasonable construction, and would be holding out false and deceptive colours to thbse engaged in that traffic. It is more reasona-

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et a]. v. Slaughter.]

ble to conclude that the legislature supposed some legislative
action on their part was necessary to carry into operation the
prohibition; assuming on themselvds to postpone such legislation until the sense of the people could be. taken on the proposed
amendment. That such must have been the understanding of
the legislature, is obvious from the provisions of the act of December, 1833, laying a tax- on slaves thus brought in for sale.
If the constitution, per se, operated as an absolute prohibition to
bring in slaves as. merchandise after the 1-st-of May, 1833, the
law of December, 1833 would be laying a tax upon slaves illegally intro duced. This would be impliedly sanctioning the
illegal introduction of the slaves; and would present an incongruity in legislation that never ought to be presumed. But to
construe the constitution as directory only to the le,-islature, the
whole will be consisterit and stand together. Although the legislature may haVe omitted to do what the constitution enjoined
upon them, this is a matter with which this Court can have no
concern.
But if any thing more can be wanting to show that the legislative interpretations of the constitution, from the year 1832 to
1837, has been that this article does not, per se, operate as a prohibition to the introduction of slaves, as merchandise, but required
legislative action to bring it into complete operation; it will be
found in that act of the -13th of May, 1837. Until that time, it is
manifest from the whole current of legislation upon that subject,
and the proposition to amend the constitution in that particular,
that there was great diversity of opinion in relation to this matter.
But the act of 1837 purports to carry into effect the injunctions
in the constitution. It adopts, the words of the constitution, and
declares that, "1hereafter, the business of introducing or importing
slaves into this state, as merchandise, or for sale, be, and the same
is hereby, prohibited." Here, then, is a compliance with the
injunction in the constitution, by a direct prohibition. This law
does not assume that such prohibition was in force by virtue of
the constitutional provision. Upon such hypothesis, this prohibition in the law would be entirely superfluous, and the act
would have proceeded to provide for enforcing the constitutional
prohibitions. But to consider the article in the constitution as
directory to the legislature to prohibit the introduction of slaves,

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

503

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

this law is a literal compliance with thd.injunction; and not only
enacts a prohibition, but provides the necessary penalties for a
violation of that prohibition, and declares all contiacts made in
relation thereto to be void. This is carrying into full execution
the injunction of the constitution; and affords a.strong and irresistible conclusion, that, in the opinion of the legislature, that prohibition had not-been in pperation until the passage of that law.
To declare all contraqts made for the purchase of slaves introduced, as merchandise, from the 1st of. Mgy, 1833 until the
passage of this law, in. 1837, illegal and void, when there was
such an unsettled, state Pf-opinion and course of policy pursued
by the legislature, would -e a severe and rigid construction of
the constitution, and 6iie :that Qught not to be akdQpted. tiless
cllfbd for by the most plain and unequivocal language. -It is
said'by Judge Trotter, that he considers it immaterial whether
the constitution be consirued as merely directory, or as containing
within itself -n absolute prohibition. In eiiher-case it fixes .the
policy.of the statc. His idea, however, of the policy of the state,
upon tbis subject; differs essentially from ihat of the Chancellor.
We do not mean to.say that if there appeared to have been a,
fixed and settled course of policy in 'that state against allowing
the introdqetion of sIbves, for merchandise, or for sale, that a
colitract, made in violation of such policy, would not be void.
But we cannot thi.k 'that this: pirinciple applies to this case.
When the sale of the slaves in question was made, there was
certainly, no fixed and settled course of policy which would
make void or illegal such contracts.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is accordingly affirmed.
And this view of the case makes it unnecessary to inquire whether
this article in the constitution of Mississippi is repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States; and, indeed, such inquiry id
not properly in the case, as the decision has been placed entirely
upon the construction of the constitdti6 n of Mississippi.

Mr. Justice M'LEAN.
As one view of 'this case involves the construction of the Constitution of the United States in a most important part, and in
regard to its bearing upon a momentous and most delicate subject, I will state in a few words my own views oi that branch

504

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et a]. v. Slaughter.)

of the case. The case has been argued with surpassing ability
on both sides. And although the" question I am to consider, is,
not necessary to a decision of the case; yet, it "isso intimately
connected with-it, and ha been so elaborately Vgued, that under
existing circumstances I deem it fit and -proper to express my
opinion upon it.
The second section of the constitution of Mississippi, adopted
the 26th of October, 1832, declares that the introduction of
slaves into that .slate, as merchandise, or for sale, slall be prohibited from and after the'1st day of M'Iay, 1S33 : provided, that
the actual settlers shall not be prohibited from purchasing slaves
in any state in the Union-, hnd bringing them into that state for
their own individual use, until the year 1845: and-the question is, whether this provision is in conflict with that part of the
Constitution of the United States, which declares that Congress
shall have power "to regnhte commerce with foreign nations,
and among the several states.'"
In the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, .9 Wheat. 186, this Court decided, that the power to regulate commerce is exclusively vested
in Congress, and that no part of it can be exercised by a state.
The negesity of a uniform commercial regulation, more than
any other consideration, led to the adoption.of the federal Constitution. And,unless the power be not only paramount, but
exclusive, the Constitution must fail to attain one of the principal
objects of its formation.
It has been contended that a state may exercise a commercial
power, if the same has not been exercised by Congress. And
that this power of the state ceased when the f2deral authority
'was exertdd over the same subject matter.
This argumefit is foulided upon the supposition that a state
may exercise a.power which is exliressly given to the federal
government, if it shall not exert the power in all the modes, and
oVer all the subjects to which it can be applied. If this rule of
construction were generally adopted and practically enforced, it
would be as fatal to the spirit of the constitution as it is opposed
to its letter.
If a commercial power may be exercised by q tate because
it has not been exercised by Congress, the same rule must apply
to other powers exressly delegated to the federal government.

JANUAR Y TERI, "1841.

505

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

It is admitted that the power of taxation is common to ihe
state and federal governments ; but this is not in its nature or
effect a -repugnant power; and its exercise is vital to both
governments.
A power may remain dormant, though the" expediency of its
exercise has been fully considered. It is. often wiser and mor
politic to forbear, than to exercise a power.
A state regalates its own internal commerce, may pass inspection and police laws, designed to guard the .health and protect
the rights of its citizens. But these laws must not be extended
so as to come in conflict with a' iower expressly given to the
federal government.
It is enough to say that the commercial power, as it regals
foreign commerce, and commerce among the -several states, has
been decided by this Court to be exclusively vested in Congress.
Under, the power to regulate foreign.. commerce Congress
impose duties ott importations, give drawbacks, pass embargo
and non1-intercourse laws, and make all other regulations necessary to navigation, to the safety of passengers, and the protection
of property. Here is an ample range, extending to the remotest seas where the commercial enterprise of our citizens
shall go, for the exercise of this po-wer.
The power to regulate commerce among the several states is'
givefi in the same section, and in the. same .language. But it
does not follow that the" power may be exercised to the same
extent.
The transportation of slaves fiom a foreign country, before the
abolition of that t a!w was subject to this commercial power.,
This would seem to be admitted in the Constitution, as it prqvides "the importation of such persons as any of the states, now
existing, shall think proper to admit, shall not be.probibited by
Congress prior to the year eighteen hundred and eight: but a tax
or duty, may be imposed on such importation, not exceeding ten
dollars for each person."
An exception to a rule.-is said to prove the existence -of the
rule; and this exception to"the exercise of the commercial power,
may well be-considered as a clear -recognition of the power in
the case stated. -The United States are considered'as a unit, in
all regulations of foreign commerce. But this cannot be the case
VOL. XV.-2 U

64

506

SUPREME COURT.
[Grdves et aL v..Slaughter.]

where the regulations are to operate among the several states.
The law must be equal and general in its provisions. Congress
cannot pass a non-intercourse law, as amohg the several states;
nor impose an embargo that shatll affect only a part of them.
Navigation, whether on the high seas, 3r in the coasting trade,
is a part of our commerce; and, when extended beyond the limits
of any state, is subject to the P-owef of Congress. And, as regards this intercourse, internal or foreign, it is immaterial whether
the cargo of the Vessel consists of passengers, or articles of commerce.
Can the transfer and sale of slaves from one state to another,
be regulated by Congress, under the commercial power?
If a state may admit or prohibit slaves at its discretion, this.
power must be in the state, and not in Congress. The ('onstitution 'seems to recognise the power to be in the states. The
importation of certain persons, meaning slaVes, which was not'to
be prohibited before eighteen hundred and eight, was limited to
such states, then existing, as shall think proper to admit them.
Some of the states at that tiiae prohibited the admission of slaves,
and their right to do so was as strongly implied by this provision
as the right of other states that admitted them.
The Constitution treats slaves as persons. In the second section of the first article which -apportions representatives, and
directs taxes among the states, it provides, "1the numbers shall
be determined, by adding to the whole number of free persons,
including those bound to service for a term of years, and excluding Indians not taxed, three-fifths of all other persons." And
again, in the third section of the fourth article, it is declared that
"no person, held to service or labour in one state under the
laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any
law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or
labour, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom
such service or labour may be due."
By the laws of certain states, slaves are treated as property;
and the .onstitution of Mississippi prohibits their being brought
into that state by citizens of other states, for sale, or as merchandise. Merchandise is a comprbhensive term, and. may
include every article of traffic, whether foreign or domestic, which

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

507

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

is properly embraced by a commercial regulation. But if slaves
are considered in some of the states as merchandise, that cannot
divest them of the leading and controlling quality of persons by
which they are designated in the. Constitution. The character
of property is given them by the local law. This law is respected,
and all rights under it are protected by the federal authorities;
but the Constitution acts upon slaves as persons, and not as
property.
In all the old states, at- the time of the Revolution, slavery
existed in a greater or less degree. By more than one half of
them, including those that have been since admitted into the
Union,'it has been abolished or prohibited. And in these states,
a slave cannot be brought-as merchandise, or held to labour, itt
any of them, except as a transient person.
The constitution of Ohio declares that there shall be neither
slavery nor involuntary servitude in the statei except for the
punishment of crimes. Is this provision in conflict with the
power in Congress to regulate commerce ? It goes much further
than the, constitution of Mississippi. That prohibits only the
introduction of slaves into the state by the citizens of other states,
as merchandise; but the constitution of Ohio not only noes this,
but it declares that slavery shall not exist in the state. Does not
the greater power include the lesser. If Ohio may prohibit the
introduction of slaves into it altogether, may not the state of
Mississippi regulate their admission?
The Constitution of the United States operates alike on all the
states: and one state has the same power over the subject of
slavery as every other state. If it be constitutional in one state
to abolish or prohibit slavery, it cannot be unconstitutional in
another, within its discretion, to regulate it.
Could Ohio, in her constitution, have prohibited the introduction into the state, of the cotton of the south, or the manufactured
articles of the north ? If a state may exercise this power, it may
establish a non-intercourse with the other states. This, no one
will pretend, is (ithin the power of a state. Such a measure
would be repugnant to the Constitution, and it would strike at
the foundation of the Union. The power vested in Congress to
regulate commerce among the several states, was designed to
prevent commercial conflicts among them. But, whilst Ohio

508

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al.v. Slaughter.]

could not proscribe the productions of the south, nor the fabrics
of the north, no one doubts its power to prohibit slavery. And
what can more unanswerably establish the doctrine that a state
may prohibit slavery, or; in itg discretion, regulate it, without
trenching upon the commercial power of Congress?
The power over slavery belongs to the states respectively. It
is local in its character, and in its effects; and the transfer or
sale of slaves cannot be separated from this power. It is, indeed,
an essential part 6f it.
'Each state has a right to protect itself against the avarice and
intrusion of the slave dealer; to guard its citizens against the
inconveniences and dangers of a slave population.
The right to exercise this7 power, by a state, is higher and
deeper than the Constitution. The evil involves the prosperity,
and may endanger the existence of a state. Its power to guard
against, or to remedy the evil, rests upon the law of self-preservation; a law vital to every cormnunity, and especially to a
sovereign state.

Mr. Chief Justice

TAE-Y.

I had not intended'to express an opinion- upon the question
raised in the argument in relation to the power of Congress to
regulate the traffic in slaves between the different states, because
the Court have come to the conclusion, in-which I concur, that
the point is not involved in the case before us. But, as my
Brother Mi'Lean has stated his opinion upon it, I am not willing,
by remaining silent, to leave any doubt as to mine.
In my judgment, the power-over this subject is exclusively
with the several states'; ana each of them has a right to decide
for itself, whether it will or will not allow persons of this description to be brbught within its limits, from another state, either for
sale, or for any ptier pu'pose ; and, also, to prescribe the manner
and mode in which they may be -introduced, and to determine
their condition and treatment within their respective territories:
and the action of the several states upon this subject, cannot be
controlled by Congress, aither by virtue of its power to regulate
commerce, or by virtue of any other power conferred by the
Constitution of the United States.' I do.not, however, mean to
argue this question; and I state my opinion upon it, on account

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

509

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

of the interest which a large portion of the Union naturally feel
in this matter, and from an apprehension that my silence, when
another member of the Court has delivered his opinion, might be
misconstrued.
Another question of constitutional law has also been brought
into discussion, that is to say, whether the grant of power to the
general government, to regulate commerce, does not carry with
it an implied prohibition to the states to make any regulations
upon the subject, even although they should be altogether consistent with those made by Congress.
I decline expressing any opinion upon this question, because
it is one step further out of the case really before us; and there
is nothing in the character of the point, that seems to require a
voluntary declaration of opinion by the members of the Court.
It is admitted on all hands, that if a state makes any regulation
of commerce inconsistent with those made by Congress, or in
any degree interfering with them, the regulation of the state must
yield to those of the general government. No one, I believe,
doubts the controlling power of Congress in this respect; nor
their right to abrogate and annul any and every regulation of
commerce made by a state. But the question upon which
different opinions have been entertained, is this: w6uld a regulation of commerce, by a state, be valid until Congress should
otherwise direct; provided such regulation was consistent with
the regulations of Congress, and did.not in any manner conflict
with them ?
No case has yet arisen which made it necessary, in the judgment of the Court, to decide this question. It was treated as an
open one, in the case of The City of New York v. Milne, 11 Peters,
102, decided at January term, 1837, as will appear by the opinions
then delivered; and since that time the point has never, in any
form, come before the Court. Nor am I aware that there is any
reason for supposing that such a case is likely to arise. For the
states have very little temptation to make a regulation of commerce, when they know it may be immediately annulled by an
act of Congress, even if it does not at the time it is made by the
state, conflict with any law of the general government. Besides,
the regulations of Congress, already made, appear to cover the
whole, or very nearly the whole ground; and in. the very few
2u 2

510

SUPREIME COURT.
[Groves et aL'v. Slaughter.]

instances in which the laws of states have been held to be regulations of commerce; and on thai account declared to be void,
the state regulation was found to be in conflict with some existing regulation of the general government; and, consequently, the
question above stated did not arise.
The point in dispute, therefore, would seem to be but little
more than an abstract question which the Court may never be
called on to decide ; and, perhaps, like other abstract questions,
it is destined, on that very account, to be more frequently and
earnestly discussed. But until some case shall bring it here for
decision, and uhtil some practical purpose is to be answered
by deciding it, I do not propose to engage in the discussion, nor
to express an opinion.
Mr. Justice STORY, Mr. Justice THompsoN, Mr. Justice
WAYNE) and Mr. Justice M'KINLEY concurred with the majority
of the Court in opinion that the provision of the Constitution of
the United States, which gives the regulation of commerce to
Congress, did not interfere with the provision of the constitution
of the state of. Mississippi, which relates to the introduction of
slaves as merchandise, or for sale.

Mr. Justice BALDWIN.
As this case has been decided on its merits, and the opinion of
the Court covers every point directly involved, I had not thought
that any merely collateral question would have been noticed; for
I cannot believe that, in the opinion of any of the judges it is at
all necessary to inquire what would have been the result, if the
Court had held that the contract on which this suit was brought,
was void by the laws or constitution of Mississippi. The questions which would have arisen in such an event, are of the
highest importance to the country; and, in my .opinion, ought
not to be considered by us, unless a case arises in which their
decision becomes. indispensable: when too much deliberation
cannot be had before a judgment is pronounced upon them. But
since a different course has been taken by the judges who have
preceded me, I am not willing to remain silent; lest it may be
inferred that my opinion coincides with that of the .judges who
have now expressed theirs.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

511

[Grdves et al. v. Slaughter.]

That the power of Congress "to regulate commerce among
the several states," is exclusive of any interference by the states,
has been, in my opinion, conclusively settled by the solemn
opinions of this Court, in Gibbons v. Ogden\9 Wheat. 186-222,,
and in Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 438-446. If thesa decisions are not to be taken as the established construction of this
clause of the Corstitution, I know of none which arenot yet
open to doubt; nor can there be any adjudications -ofthis Court,
which must be' considered as authoritative upon any question,
if these are not to be so on this.
Cases may, indeed, arise, wherein there may be found difficulty
in discriminating between.regulations of "commerce among the
several states," and the regulations of "the internal police of d
state ;" but the subject-matter of such regulations, of either description, will lead to the-true line which separates them, when
they are examined with a dispositior to avoid a collision between
the powers granted to the federal government, by the people
of the several states, and those wrhich they have reserved exclusively to themselves. "Commerce among the states," as defined
by this Court, is "trade," "traffic," "intercourse," and dealing
in articles of commerce between states, by its citizens or others,
and carri-d on in more than one state. Police, relate only to the
internal concerns of one state, and commerce, within it, is purely
a matter of internal regulation, when confined to those articles
which have become so distributed as to form items in the common mass of property. It follows, that any regulation which
affects the ommercial intercourse b etween any two or more
states, referring solely thereto, is within the powers granted
exclusively to Congress; and that those regulations which affect
-only the commerce carried on within one state, or which refer
only to subjects of internal police, are within the powers reserved.
The opinion of this Court, in Milne v. New York, 11 Peters, 130,
&c., draws tile true line between the two classes of regulations;
and gives an easy solution to-any doubt which may arise'on the
clause of the constitution of Mississippi,. which has been under
our consideration: It does not purport to be a regulation of
police, for.any defined object connected with the internal tranquillity of the state, the health, or morals of the people: it is generab
in its terms: it is aimed at the introduction of slaves as me

1512

SUPREME COURT.
[Graves et al.v. Slaughter.)

chandise from other states, not with the intention of excluding
diseased, convicted, or insurgent slaves, or such as may be
otherwise dangerous to the peace or welfare of the state. Its
avowed.object is to prevent them from being the subjects of
commercial intercourse with other states, when introduced for
the purpose -of sale; while the next clause expressly legalizes
their introduction by settlers within the state, for their own use,
leaving-them at liberty to sell the slaves so introduced, immediately afterwards. It was not intended to affect the condition
of the slaves, for there is no provision for their emancipation,
or other. disposition when introduced into the state for sale;
so that the only effect which the broadest construction could
give to the constitution of Mississippi, would be to prohibit
the introduction into that state, of slaves from other states as
articles of commerce, without the least reference to any object
of internal police. Their introduction was legal or illegal,
according to their disposition when introduced; if intended for
sale, it was illegal; if for use by-settlers in the state, it was legal,
whatever might be the condition of the slave as to health, or his
character as to morals. If we adopt the construction contended
for by the plaintiffs in error, that it operates by its own force,
the constitution of Mississippi must be taken to be a law of that
state in relation to the regulation of Jhe traffic or dealing in
slaves brought there for the purpose olf sale; in other words, a
regulation of commerce among the several states, if slaves are
the subjects of such commerce, according to the true meaning
of the Constitution of the United States, as expounded by this
Court.
Other judges consider the Constitution as referring to slaves
only as persons, and as property, in no other sense than as persons escaping from service; they do nbt consider them to be
recognised as subjects of commerce, either " w ith foreign nations,"
or "among fhe several states;" but I cannot acquiesce in this
position. In other times, and in another department of -his
government, I have expressed my,opinion on this subject; I have
done it in judgment in another place, 1 Bald. R. 576, &c.; and"
feel it a duty to do it here, however unexpectedly the occasion
may have arisen; and to speak plainly and explicitly, however
unsuited to the spirit of the times, or prevalent opinions any-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

513

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

where, or by any persons, my views may be. That I may stand
alone among the members of this Court, does not deter me from
declaring that I feel bound to consider slaves as property, by
the law of the states before the adoption of the Constitution, and
from the first settlement of the colonies; that this right of property exists independently of the Constitution, which does not
create, but recognises ind protects it from violation, by any law
or regulation of any state, in the cases to which the Constitution
applies.
It was a principle of the Revolution, and the practical con-"
struction of the Declaration of Independence, that "necessity or
expediency" justified "the refusal of liberty, in certain circumstances, to persons of a particular Colour;" and that those to
whom their services and labour were due, were their "owners."
i Laws U. S. 24, 25. In the 7th article of the preliminary treaty
of peace with Great Britain, there is this expression, "negroes,
or other property.", Ibid. 198. Also, in the 7th article of the
definitive treaty, (ibid. 204;) which conclusively shows the then.
accepted understanding of the country: and that it was not different after the adoption of the Constitution, appears as conclusively, by the 1st article of the Treaty, of Ghent, which refers to
"any slaves, or other private property." Ibid. 694. It would
be a strange position, indeed, if we were to consider slaves as
parsons merely, and not property, in our commercial relations
with foreign nations; and yet declare them to be "private property," in our diplomatic relations -. ith them, ana in the most
solcmn international icts, from 1782 to 1815.
At the adoption of the Constitution slaves were as miclc the
subjects and articles-of "commerc& with foreign nations," and
anmong "the several states," as any other species of merchandise;
they were property for all purposes, and to all intents; they were
bought and sold as chattels; the property in them passed by a
bill of sale, by dcsce'nt, or by will; aiid they v rere sold on execution wherever slavery existed. Their importation was lawful;
and all power was taken from Congress to prohibit it prior to
1SO8,
o long as the states should think proper to admit them;
though a duty, or tax, might be imposed on such person, not
exceeding ten dollars for each. Art. 1. sect. 9.
This clause of the Constitution has been held to be an excep-

514

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

tion to the power of Congress to regulate commerce; the word
"migration" applying to those persons who come voluntarily,
and €" importation" applying to those persons who are brought
involuntarily, (9 Wh. 216 ;) so that if this clause had not been
introduced, the power to prohibit the importation would have
resulted, from the general grant of power to regulate commerce.
For no rule is better settled, than that the effect of an exception
is to take the case excepted'out of the general provision, thereby
excluding what would otherwise be embraced. 12 Wh. 440.
The conclusion, therefore, is inevitable, that slaves were embraced
by the Constitutfon as the subjects of commerce and commercial regulations,.to the same extent as other goods, wares, or
merchandise. On no other construction can the ninth section of
the first article be taken as an exception' to the 'third clause of
the eighth section; and when so taken, there is no escape from the
construction declared in the opinion of the Court, in Gibbons _V.
Ogden. Besides, if the power to regulate commerce does not
include the power to prohibit the importation of slaves into the
United States after 1808, when the exception in the ninth section
of the first article does not operate, such power is not to be found
in any other grant by the Constitution-; the consequence of which
will be, that all the'existing laws for abolishing the slave trade
are unconstitutional ;'or, at the best, their power will rest entirely
on the remote and dohbtful implication of a new grant, by the
ninth section, ofi. power after 1808, which would not have existed
had not that section been introduced. .This would be a dangerous
rule by which to construe the Constitution, and as inconsistent
with its whole scope as it would be hazardous to its permanency.
On the other hand, by holding the power to regulate commerce
to be the grant of a power to abolish the foreign slave trade, by
taking the ninth section as a temporary exception, and the exception to be inoperative after 1808, the slave-trade laws since
passed are clearly unconstitutional under an expressly granted
power; which. is a much more satisfactory position on which to
plant them, than any implication 'or inference.
Slaves, then, being articles of- commerce 'with foreign nations,
up to 1808, and until their importation was prohibited by Congress, they were also articles of commerce among the several
states, which recognised them as property capable of being trans-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

515

[Groves et a]. v. Slaughter.]

ferred from hand to hand as chattels. Whether they should be so
held or not, or what should be the extent of the right of property
in the'owner of a slave, depended on the law of each state;' that
was and is a subject on which no power is granted by the Constitution to Congress; consequently, none can be exercised,
directly-or indirectly. Itis a matter of internal police, over
which the states have reserved the entire control; they, and they
alone, can declare what is property capable of ownership, absolute or qualified: they may continue or abolish slavery at their
pleasure, as was done before, and has been done since the Con-.
stitution; which leaves this subject untouched and intangible,
except by the states.
As each state has plenary power to legislate on this ,subject,its laws are the test of what is property; if they recognise slaves
as the property of those who hold them, they become the subjects of commerce between the states which so recognise them,
and the traffic in them may be reguilated by Congress, ag the
traffic in other articles; but no farther. Being property by the
law of any state, the owners are protected from any violationb
of the rights of property by Congress, under the fifth amendment of the Constitution; these rights do not consist merely in
ownership, the right of disposing of property of all kinds, is
incident to it, which Congress cannot touch.' The mode of disposition is regulated by the state or common law; and but for
the first clause in the second section of the fourth article 6f the
Constitution of the United States, a 'state might authorize its own
citizens to deal in slaves, and prohibit it to all others.
But that clause secures to the citizens of all the states, "all
privileges and immunities of citizens" of any other state, whereby any traffic in slaves or other property, which is lawful to
the citizens or settlers of Mississippi, with each other, is equally
protected when carried on between them and the citizens of
Virginia. Hence, it is apparent, that no state can control this
traffic, so long as it may be carried on by its own citizens,
within its own limits; as part of its purely internal commerce.
any state may regulate it according to its own policy; but when
sucn regulation purports to extend to other states or their citizens,
it is limited by the Constitution, putting the citizens of all on the
same footing as their own. It follows, likewise, that any power

516

SUPREME COURT.
[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

of Congress over the subject is, as has been well expressed by
one of the plaintiffs' couns6l, conservative in its character, for the
purpose of protecting the property of the citizens of the United
States, which-is a. lawful subject of commerce among the states,
from any state law which affects to prohibit its transmission for
sale from one state to another, through a third or more states.
Thus, in Ohio, and those states to which the ordinance of 1787
applies, or in those where slAves are not property, not subjects of
dealing or traffic among its own citizens, they cannot become
so when brought from other states; their condition is the same
as those persons of the same colour already in the state; subject
in all respects to. the provisions of iis law, if brought there for
the purposes of residence or sale. If, however, the owner of
slaves in Marylandy in transporting thefm to Kefitucky, or Missouri, should pass through Pennsylvania, or Ohio, no law of
either state could take away or affect his right of property;
nor, if passing from one slave state to another, accident or
distress should compel him to :touch at any place within a state,
where slavery did not exist. Such transit of property, whether
of slaves or'bales of goods, is lawful commerce among the
several states, which none can prohibit or regulate, which the
eonstitution protects, and Congress may, and ought to preserve
from violation. Any reasoning or principle which would authorize any state to interfere with such transit of a slave, would
equally apply to a bale of cotton, or cotton goods; and thus leave
the whole commercial intercourse between the states liable to
interruption or'extinction by state laws, or constitutions. It is
fully within the power of any state to entirely prohibit the
importation of slaves of all descriptions, or of those who are
diseased, convicts, or of dangerous or immoral habits or conduct;
this is a regulation of police, for purposes of internal safety to
the state, or the health and morals of its citizens, or to effectuate
its system of policy in the abolition of slavery. But where no
object of police is discernible in a state law or constitution, nor
any rule of policy, other than that which gives to its own citizens
a "privilege," which is denied to citizens of other states, it is
wholly different. The direct tendency of all sich laws is partial, anti-national, subversive of the harmony which should
exist among the states, as well as inconsistent with the most

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

517

[Groves et al. v. Slaughter.]

sacred principles of the constitution; which on this sqbject have
prevailed through all time, in and among the colonies and states,
and will be found imbodied in the second resolution of the-Virginia legislature, in 1785. 1 Laws of the United States, 53.
For these reasons, my opinion is that had the contract in question been invalid by the constitution of Mississippi, it would be
valid by the Constitution of the United States. These reasons are
drawn from those principles oil which alone this government
must be sustainied; the leading one of which is, that wherever
slavery exists by the laws of a state, slaves are property i'i
every constitutional sense, and for every purpose, whether as
subjects of taxation, as the basis of representation, as articles
of commerce, or fugitives from service. To consider them as
persons merely, and not property, is, in my settled opinion, the
first step towards a state of things to be avoided only by a firm
adherence to the fundamental principles of the state and federal
governments, in relation to this species of property. If the first
step taken is a mistaken one, the successive ones will be fatal to
the whole system. I have taken my stand on the only position
which, in my judgment, is impregnable; and feel confident in its
strength, however it may be assailed in public opinion, here or
elsewhere.
Mr. Justice CATnoN', having been indisposed, did not sit in
this case.
Mr. Justice MAKINLEY dissented from the opinion of the Court,
as delivered by Mr. Justice THo5PSON: and Mr. Justice STORY
also dissented; both these justices considering the notes sued
upon void.
Mr. Justice BARBOUR died befora the case was decided.
These causes came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States f6r the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and were argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and-adjudged by this
Court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this-cause
be, and the same is hereby,,affirmed, with costs and damages, at
the rate of six per centum per annum.
VOL. XV.-- X

