JANUARY TERM, 1841.

Lmvr, PLAiNTIFs N ERnoR, -v. EDxuND
AND DAVID FITZPATRICK, DEFENDANTS IN ERBOR.

BARNETT AND ELIZA

The mortgagees, in Louisiana, filed, in the Circuit Court, their petition, stating the
non-payment of the debt due on their mortgage, and that by the laws of Louisiana,
the mortgage imports a confession of judgment, and entitles them to executory process, which they prayed for. Without any process requiring the appearance of the
mortgagors, one of whom resided out of the state, the judge ordered the eiecutory
process to issue. Two of the defendants, who were residents in the state, prosecuted
a writ of error on this order, to the Supreme Court of the United States. Held, that
the order for executory process was not a final judgment of the Circuit Court, on
which a writ of error could issue.
By the eleventh section of the judiciary act of 1789, no civil suit shall be brought
before the Courts of. the United States, against an inhabitant of the United States,
by any original process, in any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant,
or in which he shall be found at the time of serving the writ. The construction
given to these provisions, by this Court, is, that no judgment cat be rendered by a
Circuit Court against any defendant, who has not been served with process issued
against his person, in the manner pointed out; unless the defendant waive the neces.
aity ofsuch process, by entering his appearance to the suit.
The case of Toland v. Sprague, 12 Peters, 300, cited.
As the debtors were not before the judge, in the Circuit Court, when he granted, in
this case, the order for process, the order for the process could not be regarded as a
final judgment, from which a writ of error could be prosecuted, under the 22d section
of the judiciary act of 1789. By the laws of Louisiana, three days' notice of a sale
under such process was required to be given to thi debtors, or the sale would be
utterly void. Upon that notice, the debt6rs had a right to comeinto Court and file
their petition, and set up, as matter of defence, every thing that could be assigned for
error in a Court of Errors; and they could pray for an injunction in the Circuit
Court, to stay the executory process, till the matter of the petition would be heard and
determined. In the proceeding on the petition and answer, the whole merits of the
case between the parties, including the necessary questions of jurisdiction, could be
heard, and a final judgment rendered. Articles 738, 739, of the Louisiana Code of
Practice.

IN error to the Circuit Court of, the United States, for the
Eastern District of Louisiana.
In the Circuit Court, Edmund and David Fitzpatrick, ciizens
of the state of Virginia, filed a petition, stating that the plaintiffs
in error, Barnett and Eliza. Levy, citizens of Louisiana, and resident in the Eastern District of Louisiana, were indebted to them,

SUPREME COURT.
[Levy v. Fitzpatrick.]

in solido, in the sum of twelve thousand one hundied dollars,
with interest, at the rate of ten per cent., until paid, from the
second day of February, 1838.

That on the

.26th

of .March,

a838, Barnett Levy, Eliza Levy, and one Moses E. Levy, (Moses E.'Levy being then a resident in the state of Mississippi, and
not within the District cf Louisiana,) gave their obligation, duly
executed by them, to the said Edmund and David Fitzpatrick,
binding themselves and each of them, in solido, to pay to them
the said sum of twelve thousand one hundred dollars, on the 2d
of February, 1839, with interest, &c., "negotiable and payable
at the residence of the saia Barnett Levy in the state of Louisiana." The petition alleged that a demand of payment of the
said obligation had been duly made at the residence of Barnett
Levy, but-the obligors had wholly failed to pay the same. The
petition stated that a public act of hypothecation and mortgage,
at the timh the obligation was given, was executed by M. A.
Levy, Barnett Levy, and Eliza Levy, by which certain real
estate and slaves were given in pledge for the security of the
said debt; which was duly recorded in the proper -office in the
parish of. Madison, in the state of Louisiana. The mortgage
was joint, not joint and several.
The petition asked that executory process might issue in the
premises; and that, after due proceedings, the land and slaves
might be sold, to pay the debt and interest due the petitioners,
under executory process.
The petition also alleged that the act of hypothecatio.i imported a confession of judgment, and entitled the petitioners- to
executory process. The bond, and a certified copy of the act
of mortgage, were annexed to the petition.
The mortgage,. executed by Eliza Levy and Barnett Levy, in
their proper persons, and by Barnett Levy, under a power of
attorney from M. A. Levy, which was not annexed to or filed
with the mortgage, stipulated that one-third of the debt should
be paid on the 2d of February, 1839; one-third on the 2d of
February, 1840 ; and the residue on the 2d of February, 1841 ;
"and on failure to pay the said note in the three several instalments, as aforesaid, or any one thereof at its maturity, they
hereby impower and authorize the said Edmund Fitzpatrick
and David Fitzpatrick, or either of them, to avail themselves of

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

169

[Levy v, Fitzpatrick.3

all the advantages of this special mortgage, and to proceed to
seizure and sale of the said lands and slaves hereby morfgaged,
by executory process, according to law, for the whole sum of
twelve thousand one hundred dollars."
The Honourable P. K. Lawrence, judge of the Circuit Court,
gave an order for process on the petition, "as iirayed for." Two
of the mditgagors, the defendants in the Circuit Court, prosecuted
this writ of error to the Supreme Court. The errors assigned,
in- the petition, for the writ of error in the Circuit Court, were
the following:
1st. No oath or affidavit has been made by the creditors, or
either of them, that the debt is due upon which the order of
seizure and sale has been obtained. See Civil Code of Louisiana,
art. 3361.
2d. The power of attorney, if any exists, of Moses A. Levy,
one of the defendants, is not attached to the papers nor filed in
this suit, and. there is no authentic evidence of it; there is a mere
recital of it in the act.
3d. The certified copy of the act of mortgage is not completed, inasmuch as a certified copy of siid po*er. of attorney
does not accQmpany it; though sAid act declares that said power
of attorney was attached to it, and is of'course an importdnt
part of the record.
4th. Though the written obligation may be joint and several,
yet the act of mortgage is only joint, and it'is indivisible; therefore it is illegal to proceed by executory process against any
one or two of the joint obligators, to the exclusion of the other
one or two.
5th. The proceedings generally are irregular and illegal, and
cannot be sustained.
Lastly, That no presentment or demand, of payment of the
note or obligation sued upon was made before the commencement of this suit, at the place where the same was made-payable, and that no protest or other evidence of such demand is
exhibited.
The case was submitted, on the part of the plantiffs in error,
on a printed argument, by Mr. Garland; and was argued at the
bar, by Mr. Coxe, for the defendant.
22
VOL. XV.--P

SUPREME COURT.
[Levy v. Fitzpatrick.]

The decision of the Court having been given on a point not
presented by the assignment of errors, or in the arguments of
the counsel, the arguments are omitted.
Mr. Justice M'KLEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
The *defendants in error addressed a petition to the Circuit
Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, stating that the
plaintiffs in error were indebted to them, in s'olido, in the sum
of twelve thousand one hundred dollars, with interest at the rate
of ten per cent. per annum, by their certain writing obligatory,
executed by them and one Moses A. Levy, who was then out
of the jurisdiction of the Court. To secure the payment of
-which sum of money, the said Barnett Levy, for himself, and as
attorney in fact, for the said Moses A. Levy, together with the
said Eliza Levy, by. a public act, hypothecated and mortgaged
-to the petitioners,,a certain tract of land and several slaves
therein mentioned, which public act, they alleged, imports a confession of judgment, and entitled them to executory process;
which they prayed the Court to grant. Without any process
requiring the appearance of the debtors, one of the judges signed
an order directing the executory process to issue. To reverse
this order, they sued out this wit of error.
Had this proceeding taken place before a judge of competent
authority, in Louisiana, the debtors might have appealed from
the order of the judge to the Supreme Court of that state; and
that Court might, according to the laws of Louisiana, have
examined and decided upon the errors which have been assigned here. -But there is a marked and radical difference
between the jurisdiction of the Courts of Louisiana, and those
of the United States. By the former, no regard is paid to the
citizehl'hip of the parties; and in such a case as this, no process
is necessary to bring the debtors before the Court. They having
signed and acknowledged the authentic act, according to the
forms of the* law of Louisiana, are, for all the purposes of obtaining executory process, presumed to be before the judge.
Louisiana Code of Practice, articles 733 and 734. An appeal
will lie to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, from any interlocutory or incidental 6rder, made in the progress of the cause, which
might produce irirparable injury. State v. Lewis, 9 Mart. R.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

171

[Levy v.Fitzpatrick.]
301, 902. Broussard v. Trahan's heirs, 4 Mart. R. 497. Gurlie
v.Coquet, 3 N. -S. 498. Seghus v. Antheman, 1 N. S. 73. State
v. Pitot, 12 Mart. R. 485.
The jurisdiction of the Courts of the United States is limited
by law, and can only be exercised in specified cases. By the
'eleventh section of the judiciary act of 1789, it is enacted. "That
the Circiit Courts shall have original cognisance, c6ncurrent with
the Courts of the several states, of all suits of a civil nature at
common law, or inequity, wheli the matter in dispute exceeds,
exclusive of costs, the sum or value of five hundred dollars, and
the United States are plaintiffs or petitioners, or an alien is a
party, or the suit is between a citizen of the state where the suit
is brought, and a' citizen of another state. And no civil suit
shall be brought before said Courts; against an inhabitant of the
United States, by any original process, in any other district than
that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found
at the time .of serving the writ." The construction given by
this Court, to these provisions is, that no judgment can be rendered by a Circuit Court, against any defendant who has not
been served with process issued against his person, in the manner
here pointed out; unless the defendant waive the-necessity of
such process by entering his appearance to the suit. Toland v.
Sprague, 12 Peters, 300.
And by the 22d section of the same ac final judgments in
civil actions, commenced in the Circuit Court,, by original process, may be re-examined, and reversed or affirmed, upon a writ
of error. It is obvious that the debtors were not before the
judge, in this case, by the service of. process,'or by voluntary
appearance, when he granted the executory process. In that
aspect of the case, then, the order could not be regarded as a
final judgment, within the meaning of. the.22d section of-the
statute. But was the order a final judgmeiit, according to the
laws of Louisiana'? The fact pf its being subject to appeal does
not prove that it was, as has already been shown. Nor could
it, per se, give to the execution of the process, ordered by the
judge, the dignity of a judicial sale. Unless at least three days
previous notice were given, to the debtors, the sale would be
utterly void. Grant and Olden v. Walden, 5 L. R, 631.
This proves that some other act was necessary, on the part of

172

SUPREME COURT.
[Levy v. Fitzpatrick.]

the plaintiffs, to entitle them to the fruits of their judgment by
confession. And in that act is involved the merits of the whole
case; because, upon that notice, the debtors had a right to- come
into Court and file their petition, which is technically called an
opposition, and set up, as matter of defence, every thing that
could he assigned for error here, and pray for an injunction to
stay the executory process till the matter of the petition could
be heard and determined. And upon an answer to the petition
coming in, the whole merits of the case between the parties,
including the necessary questions of jurisdiction, might have been
tried, and final judgment rendered. Articles 738, 739, of the
Code of Practice. From this view of the case, we think the
order, granting 6xecutory process, cannot be regarded as any
thing more than a judgment nisi. To such a judgment a writ
of error would not lie. The writ of error, in this case, must therefore be dismissed. "
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is ordered and adjudged, by this Court, that this writ
of error be, and the same is hefeby, dismissed, with costs.

