JANUARY TERM, 1841.

SUSAN

MAYBURRY,

APPELLANT, V. JOHN M:PimRsON BRIEN,
AND OTHflRS, ATPELLEES.

Dower.-Dower is a legal right; and whether it be claimed by suit at law or in equity,
the principle is the same. On a joint tenancy, at common law, dower does not
attach.
No title to dower attaches on ajoint seis of real estate. The mere possibility of the
estate being defeated by survivorship, prevents dower.
If the husband, being ajoint tenant, convey his interest to another, and thus at once
destroy the right of survivorship, and deprive himself of the property, his wife will
not be entitled to dower.
-The time of the delivery ofa deed may be proved by parol.
By the common law, dower does not attach to an equity of redemption. The fee is
vested in the mortgagee, and the wife is not dowable of an equitable seisin.
When the husband takes a conveyance in fee, and at the same time mortgages the land
back to the grantor, or to a third person, to secure the purchase, money in whole or
in part, dower cannot be claimed as against rights under the mortgage. The husband
is 4ot deemed sufficiently or bdneficially seised by an instantaneous passage of the
fee in and out of him, to entitle his wife to-dower as against the mortgage.
It is the well established doctrine, that of a seisin, for an instant, a woman shall not be
endowed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district of Maryland.
The case was presented to the Court on a printed statement,
and a printed argument by Mr. Mayer, for the appellant; and
was argued by Mr. Meredith and Mr. Nelson, for the appellees.
.A bill was filed in this cause by the appellant, as widow of
Willoughby Mayburry, claiming dower from John Brien, putchaser of the estate, in real estate, in Frederick county, designated as "The Catoctin Furnace, and all the lands," (describedL
by the names of tracts,), " annexed or appropriated to it,"
and also claiming rents atd profits from the death of Willoughby Mayburry. The real estate in question was conveyed
by Catharine Johnson, Baker Johnson, and William Ross, as
executors of Baker Johnson, to Willoughby Mayburry and
Thomas Mayburry, by deed, dated 5th March, 1812. By deed,

2"

SUPREME COURT.
[Mayburry v. Brien et al.]

dated 9th March, 1813, Thomas Mayburry conveyed to Willoughby his undivided moiety in the estate; and by deed of the
same date, Willoughby mortgaged' to Thomas, all his (Willoughby's) interest in the Catoctin Furnace, and the landq
attached to it, to secure payment of certain obligations from
Willoughby to Thomas. The answer admits the marriage of
the appellant, and the death of Willoughby; and that she
was married to him when the deed to W"illoughby and Thomas
was executed; but it insists that, simultaneously with the
delivery of the deed, a mortgage was executed by Willoughby
and Thomas to the grant6rs in the deed, to secure a part of the
purchase money, payable by them for the estate. The answer
further states, that the mortgage was foreclosed; and that, under
the decree, the respondent, John Brien, became purchaser of the
estate; and the answer insists that the plaintiff was noc entitled
to dower in the property. The mortgage, which the answer
speaks of, is dated the 19th March, 1812, fourteen days after
the date of the deed to Willoughby -and Thomas. The only
testimony taken in the case was William Ross's;. which was
taken subject to all exceptions to its admissibility and effect.
His testimon r is, in substance, that the estate'was sold by him
and his co-executors, to the Mayburrys, for thirty-two thousand
dollars; that part was paid in hand, and that, for the residue, a
credit was stipulated, to be secured by mortgage; that the deed
to the Mayburrys was prepared and executed, and acknowledged
on the 5th March, 1812, by himself and the other executors;
and that he then retained it, to be delivered on receiving payment of the cash part of the purchtse money, and receiving from
the Mayburrys their mortgage; that the mortgage was executed
by them on 19th March, 1812, and that when executed, the deed
was delivered to them, and the mortgage was received from them;
and that, as witness says, "the delivery of the deed and the mortgage were simultaneous acts." The desposition also states, that
the deed of Thomas to Willoughby, and the mortgage from
Willoughby to Thomas, were simultaneous acts. The transcript
of record of the foreclose of the mortgage w'as exhibited in evidence, subject to all exceptions.
During the cause, the original defendant, John Brien, died, and
his heirs. were made parties by bill of revivor. A decree (pro

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

23

[Mayburry-v. Brien et L]
forma) was passed, dismissing the bill. The mortgage of the Mayburrys to the executors of Baker Johnson$ has a covenant on the
part of the Mayburrys, that after default in payment of the
mortgage debt, the property shall remain to the mortgagees,
free and clear of all mortgages, judgments, charges, or encumbrances whatsoever; and also a covenant of the mortgagees, that
until Lefault in payment of the mortgage debt, the Mayburrys
"are to continue in full possession, of the premises aforesaid,
enjoying all the rents and profits thereof, to their own particular
use and benefit."
The counsel for the appellant contended,
1st. That the deed of the executors of Johnson to the Mayburrys., when the subject-matter of the conveyance is regarded,
must be construed to create a tenancy in common, and not a
joint tenancy.
ed. That the rule which denies dower in case of joint tenancy,
applies only in behalf of the surviving joint tenant, an(d to prevent interference with his enjoyment of the estate as survivor-:
and'that therefore if the lbed created in ihe Mayburrys a joint
tenancy, the plaintiff here may cat in aid the release to her husband of the other joint tenant's interest in the property.
3d. That no evidence was admissible to show that the deed
to the Mayburrys was not delivered when .it bears date, for
the purpose of contradicting the terms of the deed which vests
in the Mayburrys the beneficial interest in the property.
4th. That the principle which excludes dower in a case of
merely instantaneous seisin, applies only whkere the grantor acts
in carrying out a naked trust and a simply instrumental part, and
not where any interest, immediate or contingent, attaches to the
grantee uinder the conveyance. That it cannot apply to a ease
of a purchaser who mortgages, and especially when part of th6
purchase money,.as in this instance, is paid when the mortgage
is given; the proper view in such case being, that legal assurances
being adopted, their strictly legal and intrinsic import is to prevail,
without blending them together by any equitable construction.
- 5th. That there is no evidence of any contract whatsoever,
making the delivery of the deed of the executors dependent on
a mortgage being delivered at the same time; and that, according
to the true understanding of all that transpired, the de-d -of the

24

SUPREME COURT.
[Mayburry v. Brien et &L]

executors remained in Mr. Ross's hands as a deed, ant not as an
escrow, and was left by his co-executors with him as if a stranger,
and had relation, when actually delivered, to the date -when it
was handed to Mr. Ross to be retained.
6th. That in the absence, especially, of all contract for a simultaneous delivery, the conveyance to the Mayburrys must be
regarded as vesting-in them the beneficial use 6f the estate,
although for an instant, and if so, there was a seisin which gave
rise to dower; and that this must be the result, even independently of the covenant with the' Mayburrys for their use and
enjoyment of the estate until default, as contained in the mortgage; and that the covenant characterizes the seisin, not only as
beneficial, but as virtually continuing.
Mr. Mayer, in a printed argument, stated:
The terms of the deed to the Mayburrys, from the executors
of JohNson, import joint tenancy in the Mayburrys; but if the
peclliarhy of the property conveyed is considered, it is believed
that there will be no difficulty in concluding that only a tenancy
in-common was created. The property conveyed was a furnace
establishment, and the land is given as virtually incident to that
manufactory, and subservient to the business. It is settled that
real estate conveyed to several parties for partnership purposes,
or which is useful only for some business, is held by the parties as
tenants in common, and not as joint tenants. The nature of the
subject conveyed is enpugh to show why it was acquired, and it
is'unnecessary to prove any actual use for a joint enterprise; in
the absence of such direct proof, the law inferring the intended
appropriation from the character and capacity of the property.
In none of the cases has proof of an agreement to purchase for
partnership purposes been requiied. In the cases, in fact, now
cited here, no such agreement did appear. Lake vs. Craddock,
3 P. Wins. 158. 15 John. -R. 159. 9 Yes. Jr. 500. A manufactory was here conveyed to two. In the absence of contrary
proof, it is to be understood to have been acquired to be usedand if used by the two parties for its natural purposes, the use
of it would make them partners in its business. It is the principle of the common law which in favour of trade excludes survivorship, where property owned by two is.used or useful only for

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

25

[Maybunrry eBrien et a.]

trade or business; andto no instance could it apply.more forcibly
than to the instance of a furnace. Thus, too, where two persons hold a ship together, although not general partners, nor even
shown to have used it, ihe control of a surviving partner to sell

is not permitted to the survivor of the owners-the prop~rty
being deemed a tenancy in common. Even that ordinarycontrol
of a surviving partner is only given as a matter 6f necessity in
the instance of the merchandise of the partnership and the partnership claims :-and in such case he is allowed to act in refetence to the interest of the deceased as a'trustee. If the estate
here was a tenancy in comm6', dower of course attached; uhless
the seisin was not of a character to allow it. In this country
every construction should oppose joint tenancy, and particularly
in Maryland, which has abolished it by act of 1822, ch. 262.
In this case the interest of the other party was released to the
husband of the appellant. It might be contended that dower is
denied in joint tenancy only in behalf of the su'rviving tenant;
and that, subject only to his supervening right, there is an imcipient dower interest in the wife in cases of joint tenancy as in
tenancies in common. If that were so, the release here would
establish the dower claim. There is no. case that has been
found, which fixes, in terms, the law that the exclusion of
dower in joint tenancies is general as to all, -and not of limited
reference only to the paramount right of the survivor. Park,'
in his Treatise of Dower, page 40, adverts tO the subject; in the
same view now taken. The absolute positio that where joint
tenants convey, no dower accrues, is traceable to Fitzh. N. B. 150,
which refers to 34 Ed. 1,-.but the treatises do not give the particulars of the latter case. 'They will, no doubt, appear to have
presented only the question of the survivor's right.; and not to
decide that the estate of joint tenancy is incompatible with an
incipient dower interest while he joint tenancylasts.
'Where elementary writers. have attempted to give reasons for
the rule, as an unqualified position, that an estate conveyed By
joint tenants excludes dower, they do not comprehend any interest in their rationale, except that of the suiviving joint tenant.
Gilb. Uses, 404. ,Perk. sec. 500. But whatever might be the understanding of the rule in question, properly considered, was
there, in this instance, by the mortgage, so consummate a trans

VOL.XV.-C

4

26

SUPREME COURT.
[Mayburry v. Brien et aL]

fer of the estate as to leave no interest upon which the subsequent release of Thomas to Willoughby Mayburry might operate to the effect of assuring the appellant dower in the land,
paramount to the estate or claim of the mortgages? In determining this point, it should be borne in mind, that dower is ex
provisione legis, and not an interest under the husband. 8 Co.
71. 6 Co. 41. What divestiture of estate did the mortgage
effect? It is now settled, even at common law, that the mortgagor is deemed the continuing owner of the estate and in seisin
of it; and that as to all the world except in respect of the remedy
of the mortgagee who has the estate, (especially in Maryland,
-where foreclosure is not allowed, but only a sale,) only to be
enabled tQ transfer it. Norton vs. Willard, 4 Johns. R. 41, and
the English authorities there cited. Hitchcock vs. Harrii gton, 6
Johns. R. 290. Collins vs. Terry, 7 Johns. R. 278. Titus vs.
Nelson, 5 Johns. C. R. 452. In other words, the mortgagee's
estate is virtually only a power boupled with ai conditional interest; the accrual of the interest being dependent oh the default
'in payment of the mortgage debt. Thdt is especially the true version in such a case as this, where the mortgagors have expressly
reserved an estate in the land until default of payment. They
are, until the default "to continie in full possessiGn ;"--in other
words, to retain the possession they had, which was of a fee
simple seisin.
The mortgage deed in this case is, in effect,$-looking to the
covenant, or limitation in form of covenant, for a continuing
seisin,-only a covenant to stand seised to uses on part of the
mortgagors: the first use limited being to the mortgagors and
their heirs, until default of payment: and according to out Maryland decisionsso thorofghly would the mortgagors be deemed
to be in of their original estate, that, even at law, the mere fact
of payment, without any conveyance or release, would suffice to
make their estate absolute -against the mortgagors. 3 Har. &
M'Henry,399. Thus interpreting the mortgage in this case, what
is there to prevent Thomas's release to Willoughby, of his undivided .interest, operating so as to attract dower to Willoughby's
enlarg~d estate, even admitting the rule, in its most absolute extent which excludes dower from estates in joint tenancy, It is
only necessary to keep in view, that dower is the gift of the law,

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

27

[Mayburry v. Brien et aL]

to see that such may be the consequence of the release. Suppose,
in a covenant to stand seised to uses, first limiting a defeasible
estate to the grantor in fee, that there was but a sole grantor,
would dower attach to the first estate so limited, although defeasible in the event of money not being paid, or any -other act
not being performed? .Except where the determinable estate js
strictly on condition, the decisions would 'sustai& the claim of
dower, as an estate tacitly granted by law, an( an extension of
the inheritable character of the determined 6state-to use the
explanation given in 8 Co. 71, of the grant of dower in such instances. Dower in such cases accrues, whether the first estate
to which it is thus given determines by limitation generally, or
by a conditional li~nitation. If such be the law, where there is
a sole grantor, wlhat more is necessary in case of a limitation, as
here, by two, than that one should release to the other, and so lay
a foundation of dower; it being only the interest of survivorship
which shuts out dower? 1 Leon. 167. ,1 And. 184. 8 Co. 67.
3Bos.and Pull 652. Co. Litt. 216. Sugd.Pow. 331. 4 Taunt.
334. 1 Roper, Hus. and Wife, 37-40.
Our proposition is, that, regarding the continuing right of a

mortgagor, as -now recognised at law, as well as irt
equity, and
especially the reserved precedent estate of the mortgagors in this
case, the release of his co-tenant to Willoughby availed for the
benefit of the wife to give her dower; and such, we may main.
tain, must be the result, even if to estates ending by conditional
limitation dower does not attach. There was no. entire divestiture of the joint estate, and as the law gives the dower and supposes land, even in joint tenancy, to be susceptible of dower
interest by a simple action between the joint tenants, the remaining, though qualified, fee in the mortgagors, here, was a basis upon
which the law would make the co-tenant's release effectual for a
dower interest to the wife of the releasee. This case is not,
then, like that where an absolute conveyance is made by joint
tenants of their entire estate; and this construction should be
favoured in Maryland, where our statute law allows dower in
an equity of redemption. Act of 1818, ch. 193, sec. 10. If,
therefore, a joint tenancy was created, and not, as we insist, only
a tenancy in common, still dower attached by force of the joint
tenant's release to Willoughby.

28

SUPREME COURT.
[Mayburry v. Brien et al.]

Proceeding to the objection that here was only an instantaneous seisin which did not give rise to dower, we deny that, the
deed being not only dated but acknowledged at. a considerable
interval, it is competent fdr the appellees to adauce testimony
contradicting that purport of the instruments, and that the inquiry is open on which the objection is to be entertained. The
acknowledgment precludes the plea of non est factum, and
shows, by estoppel, that, when acknowledged, tie deed of the
executors to the Mayburrys was the deed of the former, it being
acknowledged as the deed. 1 Cranch, 239-remark of Chase, J.,
p. 248. The'acknowledgment seals all question as to the period
of the instrument becoming the complete-deed of the grantors.
It was in intendment of law certainly so, at the date of the
acknowledgment. That date being thus established, the difference of dates betwepn the deed of the executors and the mortgage banishes all qtestion as to simultaneous completion of the
instruments as deeds of the parties; for no case attempts to exclude dower where the deeds are not delivered literally at the
same time. No testimony will be allowed to contradict the tenor
of the acknowledgment. 3 Har. and M'H. 321. Apart from
the consideration of the acknowledgment, it is insisted that the
effect of the testimony as to simultaneous delivery being contradictory to the varying dates, and tending to contravene the terms
of the deed, (inasmuch as the deed of the executors would, by
that testimony, operate only as a conditional conveyance, instead
of being absolute, as its words declare,) the testimony is inadmissible. Dixon vs. Swigart, I Har. and Johns. 252. Schemerhorn vs. Vander Heyden, 1 Johns. -R. 139. Howes vs. Barker,
3 Johns. R. 506.
But assuming even that the face of the two instruments would
argue a simultaneous delivery; it is insisted that a beneficial interest, although enjoyed for an instant, vested in the vendees, and
dower was accorded by law immnediately. The cases that favour
the pretension'of the appellees, all admit that a beneficial seisin,
for an instant, even, creates dower: but the case of a deed
and a mortgage back, has been strangely, in the view of some
judges,. confounded with the case where an instantaneous
seisin is had by a party whose only connexion, immediate
or ultimate, with 'the estate, is to transfer it to* another; and

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

29

[Mayburry v. Brien et al.]

where the deed to him in fact is a mere ceremony; and his
agency is that of a mere instrument for another ulterior
object. Thus the seisin of a trustee, who discharges his function by an immediate conveyance to another, is no foundation f6r dower. But'had the mortgagors here no beneficial
inierest? The very mortgage implied an interest in them;
especially, according to the import now assigned -to a mortgage. It is difficult to conceive how the vendee, in such a
case, can have all his interest construed away, upon the fancied
analogy of a defeasance being indicated by the mortgage. I
Thomas's Co. Litt. 576, 577, note. 2 Bac. Abr. 371, tit. Dower.
2 BL Com. 132. The opinion of Mr. Justice Thompson, in
Stow vs. Tift, 15 Johns. R. 458, fully exhibits the true linits and
principle of the rule of instantaneous seisin excluding dower.
Our only Maryland decision is M'Cauley et al. vs. Grimes and
Wife, 2 Gill and Johns. 318. That decision very carefully excludes the idea that instantaneousness .of seisin is, per se, inconsistent with dower, and establishes that the slightest and most
fleeting beneficial interest will fix the dower; denying it, however, in that case, because the grantee there was performing the
part of a mere trustee, and was the mere medium of an interest
for others. He was not a mortgagor whose mortgage implied an
abiding interest, and at least a resulting use. The case of Nash
vs. Preston, referred to in Mr. Justice Thompson's decision, in
15 Johps. R. (Cro. Car. 190) clearly marks the principle by which
every case of instantaneous seisin, in its bearing on dower claims,
is to be tested. There ]and was conveyed under an agreement
that it was to be redemised to the grantor; which was done.
The Court determinWd that dower attached, because an estate
vested in the husband; Without which the redemise would
have been unmeaning" and inoperative. And so here-how can
the mortgage avail unless the estate has vested which it proposes
to convey? And to show the beneficial interest assured to the
vendees, here, even by the mortgage, let one recur to the covenant
for the mortgagees "1to continue in full possession" until default
of payment.
The parties here adopted legal conveyances. The first imports an interest vested in the vendee. The second, assuming
such an interest to continue in the vendee, transfers it in mortc2

so

SUPREME COURT,
[Mayburry v. Brim et aL]

gage. Being legal assurances, why is not the law to attach all
its incidents, and affect the parties by all the implications which
spring from the contents of the instruments, which, in their legal
purport, profess to operate distinctly and as successive assurances?
If, according to that distinctive import and operation, dower
incidentally accrues, will that consequence be understood to be
within the view and agreement of the parties? Will not the law
infer that result to be their wish, from their having chosen such
forms of assurances? The maxim of law is, that .what arises by
implication is as forcible and binding as what is expressed. Why,
then, we ask, is not the intrinsic import of the instruments, respectively, to prevail ? How, as legal assurances, in duedeterence
to their respective terms, can they be blended into one instrument ?
The law will understand that dower was meant to be conferred
when that form of assurance is not adopted which would have
excluded it. If to be excluded, a mere bond of conveyance might
have been chosen; or a deed of trust, appointing A trustee to

convey on payment of the purchase money. A case like this.is
not to be assimilated to a defeasance made at the same time
with a conveyance, though by a distinct instrument; for a defeasance in terms qualifies the original estate conveyed, while the
mortgage here assumes that the landi according to the estate
expressed in the conveyance to the mortgagors, was passed to
them'fully, and then appropriates that certain estate to the benefit
of the mortgagee in a certain event. If the mortgage provisions
are supposed to be embraced in the actual original conveyance
to the mortgagor, the compound instrument would, as a legal
instrument, be utterly inoperative; because one portion would be
repugnant to the other. It would in one part be a deed for the
vendor,.and yet in another be a deed for the vendee, and yet is
required to operate as but one conveyance, and for one aim; and
the deed'must, therefore, on this supposition of a single conveyance, by its very terms, import that there is no estate conveyed
by the mortgagor: and the vendor, therefore, remains owner as
he was before, and no effect is produced whatsoever; and the
nugatory instrument contradicts itself. Such. is not the case with
the operation of a defeasance, properly so called.
In all the inquiries on this head, where the effect of instantaneous seisin has, as we think, been misunderstood, there is one

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

31

[Mayburry v. Brien et aL]

error committed; and that is, that the wife is treated as a party
to the supposed agreement for a supposed defeasance, and as
coming in under all equities, latent or otherwise, of the husband;
while the truth is, that she is to be regarded as a stranger, so far
as the law takes care of her interest and endows her; and as
utterly independent of the husband. 8 Co. 71. And, besides that,
an equity is assumed for the parties, and it i taken for granted
that they meant what the legal import of the conveyances does
not show. For, suppose an agreement even be proved for a
mortgage to be simultaneously delivered, if, ex vi acti, the dower
attaches, dower would not, as part of the equities, be deemed
to be excluded; and to establish the equity, an agreement for the
exclusion must explicitly appear. That certainly should be so,
where, as in this instande, an important portion of the purchase
money is paid, and a large equitable interest is thus secured to
the purchaser. Of so independent and permanent a character is
the wife's claim for dower, that no provision in a deed to the
husband for excluding it, where a heritable estate is conveyed, is
valid; however conditional even the provision may be. 6 Co. 41.
Dy. 343, b. Shep. T. 128. Co. Litt. 224.
We should bear in mind that a part of the purchase money
was paid at once, and that an interest in the estate Ithus immediately accrued to the Mayburrys. When thus connected with
the property, and so far owners of it, is-it not assuming too much
to construe these parties into mere trustees, who have only lent
their names to let an estate pass that medium without leaving a
beneficial trace behind ? It is only the instantaneous seisin of such
uninterested agents which excludes dower claim; and any contrary decisions have proceeded upon misapprehension of the
true principle.
Whenever, however, the decisions which have so confounded
this principle have denied dower, there has been evidence of a
contract for. simultaneous delivery of conveyance from vendor,
and of mortgage; if we except only the case of Stow vs. Tift,
15 Johns. Rep. There is on this head a total absence of testimony
in the present case. Without such contract appearing clearlyi
what ground can there be for the constructive defeasance which
the mortgage is supposed to operate? At all events, however,
there is no evidence-that the deed was delivered as an escrow.

SUPREME COURt.
[Mayb=ry v; B ina et aL]

If, in terms, a deed be not so delivered, it may have its operation
suspended while retained to abide some event; but when it does
operate, it has effect, by relation, from its date. This is the distinction between the effect of the suspended- operation of an
instrumnent reserved as a deed, and of one held as an escrow.
2 Mass. R. 447. 9 Mass. R. 307. 13 Johns. R. 285. 1 Johns. C. R.
288. 18 Johns. R. 544. 4 Day. R. 66.

Here was the acknow-

ledged deed of all the parties, left, after being thus perfected, in
the'hands of one, with tro stipulation to make it.an escrow, but
parted with by them as their deed, and Mr. Ross thus made only
their agent to deliver it. We may, therefore, justly insist that,
though reserved for a while, yet, when literally delivered, the
instrument operated from its -date, according to the decisions now
referred to." If such be'the legal import of what transpired, the
dower claim is to be regarded here as if there were an express
provision in the deed of mortgage, that the operation of the deed
to the Mayburrys was to be deemed to begin from its date. In
that event there can be-no doubt of the validity of the present
demand.
Mr. Meredith and Mr.'Nelson, with whom was Mr. Schley,
contended that the decree of the Circuit Court ought to be
affirmed:
1st. Because the complainant was not dowable of the lands
described in the conveyances exhibited in the record, her husband, Willoughby Mayburry-, never having been sole seised of
the legal title therein.
2d. And because the seisin of her said husband, if sole, under
said conveyances, was instantaneous.
For the appellees, it was argued:
The deed of the 5th of March, 1812, from the executor of
Johnson to Thomas and Willoughby Mayburry, created either
a joint tenancy, or a tenancy in common. Upon either construction, the appellant is not entitled to dower.
1st. The grantees under this deed took as joint tenants.
If the appellant had sought his remedy in a Court of Law,
there can be no question, that such wotild have been the construction. A grant to two or more, and their heirs, without any

JANUARY- TERM, 1841.

33

fMayburry v. Brien et el.]

restrictive, exclusive, or explanatory words, constitutes the grantees joint tenants. 2 B1.Comm. 179. 191,192. Watk. on Convey.
86; 20 Law Lib. 30.
The saine, rule of construction prevailed in Maryland, until
the year 1822; when a law was passed, declaring that no deed
or will should be construed to create an estate in joint tenancy,
unless by express words.
If a Court of Equity would in ordinary cases give a different
construction to this deed, it would still adhere to the legal construction, in a case of dower. Dower is a mere legal right; and
Courts of Equity in assuming a concurrent jurisdiction, professedty act upon'the legal right and proceed in analogy to the law.
1 Story's Equity, 5S5.
But, independently of this distinction, Courts of Equity invariably hold legacies, gifts, grants, &c., to be joint, unless from the
nature of the contract, or from the words, some intention of severance appears. 3 Vesey, Jr. 630. There are dfo words of
severance in this deed. Nor is there any thing in the character
of the property, from which an intention may be deduced to
create a tenancy in common. The object of the purchase is not
explained. There is nothing in the deed, from which it may be
intended, that the parties meant to carry on the furnace as partners. There is no proof out of the deed, that they were
partners, either before or after the purchase; or that the furnace
was put into operation at all. The Court cannot infer the fact,
from the mere circumstance that the property sold consisted in
part of a furnace. The authorities cited by the appellant's counsel, have no application to this case.
2d. If the deed created a joint tenancy, then no title to dower
attached during its continuance. Park on Dower, 18 ; 11 Law.
Lib. Watkins on Convey. 15; 20 Law. Lib. 4 Kent's Comm. 37.
1 Roper, Hus. and Wife, 362. The seisin of the husband must be'
sold. The mere possibility of survivorship absolutely excludes
an incipient title in the wife. In case of survivorship the survivor claims paramount the widow's title, viz.: by the original
conveyance. And even where one joint tenant aliens his share,
his wife is not dowable; although the possibility of the survivorship of the other joint tenant, is destroyed by th severance ; the
seisin of the husband being but for an instant.
5

34

SUPREME COURT.
fMaybury v. Brien et al.]

3d. The joint tenancy in this case was not severed by the
mortgage of the 14th March, 1812. The Mayburry's then parted
with their whole legal interest, and retained the equity of redemption merely. Of this they were joint tenants. If they had
redeemed the *mortgage, their joint legal seisin would have revived. They would have been in, as df their former estate.
If either had died before redeeming, the survivor would have
been entitled by, the j us accrespendi, to the whole equity of redemption. And if he had afterwards redeemed, he would have
become solely seised of the legal estate.
4th. The deed of the 9th of March, 1813, from Thomas to
Willoughby Mayburry, passed only the equity of redemption in
one undivided half. The whole equity of redemption, therefore,
vas vested in Willoughby Mayburry And if h6 had redeemed,
h-. would have had the sole legal seisin, in which, undoubtedly,
dower would have attached. But he did not redeem, Themortgagp -was foreclosed in his lifetime, and his equitable 'estate
was extinguished. Upon this equitable estate, no dower attached.
For, thoiugh by the act of the Maryland legislature, passed in
i818, widows are'dow~bIe of equitable estates, their right does
not operate to the prejudice of any claim, for the purchase money
of the lands, or other lien on the game. In this case, besides the
mortgage for the purchase money, there were other liens, which
exhausted the whole proceeds of sale, and left a large deficiency.
As between mortgagor and mortgagee, and those claiming
uncer him, the former is to be regarded as the equitable, the.
latter as the legal owner 6f the mortgaged property; and as to
him, no title of dower can attach. The proviso in the mortgage
to the executors of Johnson, that,'until default, the grantors
should hold the land, and receive, the profits, give them no continuing seisin in fee, but constituted'them only tenants for years,
to the mortgagees. Cook on Mortgages, 325-327; 18 Law

Lib. 140, 141.
5th. If th& deed of the 5th of March, 1812, created a tenancy
in comiton, still the appellant is not entitled to dower, because
the seisin of the husband was an instantaneous transitory seisin,
on which dower does not attach. Co. Litt. 31 b. Park on Dower,
20, P1. 4 Kent's Comm. 38. Cro. Car. 190. 1 Atk. Rep.-442.
The shme doctrine applies, whexi the husband takes a convey-

JANUARY !TERM, 1841.

35

[Mayburry v. Brien et a.]

ance in fee, and at the same time, mortgages the land back to
the grantor to secure the purchase money in whole or in part.
4 Kent's Comm. 39.
'1his apl jcation of the doctrine of instantaneous seisin, is sustained by all the American cases. 4 Mass. Rep. 566. 14 Mass.
Rep. 351. 15 Johns. Rep. 458. 1 Bay's Rep. 312. 1 MICord's
Rep. 279. 4 Id. 346. 2 Gill and Johns. Rep.. 318.
In this case, although there is an interval between the dates
of the two deeds, the proof is, they were both delivered at the
same time. They were simultaneous acts. They both took
legal effect from the 14th of March, 1812, and not before. The
deed was executed and acknowledged on the 5th of March, and
retained by MvIr. Ross, ready to be delivered when the mortgage
was delivered. Leaving it in his hands, did not amount to a delivery. That is a question of intention, to be collected from all
the. circumstances. 2 Barn. and Cress. 82. 1 Johns. Cases, 114.
The whole transaction shows that the executors looked fo the
mortgage,,as their only security for the unpaid part of the purchase money. Besides, the inference from the evidence is, that
by agreement of the parties, the delivery of the two deeds was
to be sitnultaneous. This evidence is clearly admissible; because it does not contradict, but tends to confirm and establish
the deed. Goddard's Case, 2 Rep. 4 b. Stone v. Ball, 3 Lev.
348. Hall v. Cazenove, 4 East, 477.
Mr. Justice 41.LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a suit in chiancery, which is brought before this Court,
by an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of Maryland.
The complainant is the widow of Willoughby Mayburry, and
claims dower from John Brien5 who purchased an estate, designated the Catoctin Furnace, and all the lands annexed or appropriated to it. She also claims rents and profits from the death
of her husband. This estate was conveyed by Catharine Johnson, Baker Johnson, and William Ross, as executors of Baker
Johnson; to Willoughby, and Thomas Mayburry, by deed, dated
the 5th March, 1812; and they executed a mortgage on the
same, to receive the principal part of the purchase money
The 9th March, 1813, Thomas Mayburry conveyed to Willoughby, his undivided moiety in the estate; and at the same

36

SUPREME COURT.
LMayburry v. Brien et aLl

time, the grantee executed a mortgage on the estate, to secure
the payment of the purchase money.
The answer admits the marriage of the complainant, prior to
the execution of the conveyance and mortgage, in 1812; and
the death of the husband, which occurred subsequently.
Brien having deceased, his' heirs were made parties to the

suit.
The Circuit Court disminsed the bill, and the counsel for the
defendants ask the affirmance of that decree on two grounds.
1. Because the estate vested in Willoughby and Thomas
Mayburry was a joint tenancy, and not subject to dower.
2. That the mortgage was executed by Willoughby Mayburry
to Thomas, simultaneously with the delivery of the deed from
Thomas to Willoughby, and that dower does not attach to a
momentary seisin..
The counsel for the complainant insists, that the deed of the
executors of Johnson to the Mayburrys, created a tenancy in
common, and not a joint tenancy.
It is admitted that the terms of this deed import a joint
tenancy; but it is insisted, that the nature of the property,.and
the circumstances of the parties, show a tenancy in common.
That real estate conveyed for partnership purposes constitutes
an estate in common; and that the conveyance of this furnace,
and the land incident to it, was for manufacturing purposes, and
comes within this definition. No evidence being given on the
subject, the counsel relies upon the above considerations, asfling the character of the estate.
In the case of Lake- v. Craddock, 3 P. Wins. 159, the Court
held that survivorship did not take place, where several individuals had purchased an estate; which was necessary to the
accomplishment of an enterprise in which they were engaged.
That the payment of the money created a trust for the parties
advancing it, and that as the undertaking was upon the hazard
of profi or loss; it was in the nature of merchandising when
the jus accrescendi is never allowed. And in the case of Coles'
Administratrix v. Coles, 15 Johns. Rep. 159, it was decided, that
when real estate is held by partners, for the purposes of the
partnership, they hold it as tenants in common; and that on a
sale of .the land, one of the partners receiving the consideratio

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

37

CMayburry v. Brien et al.]

money, was liable to the action of the other for his moietr.
Thornton v. Dixon, 3 Brown's Ch. Rep. 199. Balmain v."Shore,
9 Ves. Jun. 500.
By a statute of Maryland, in 1822, ch. 262, joint tenancy
is abolished; and it is contended, that this being the settled policy
of the state, the Courts should give a liberal construction to conveyarpces prior to that time, to guard against the inconvenience
and hardship, if not injustice, of that tenancy.
Whether this estate was purchased by the Mayburrys, for the
purpose of manufacturing iron, for speculation, or for some other
object, is not shown by the evidence; and it would be dangerous
for the Court, without evidence, to give a construction to this
deed different from its legal import. We must consider the property as conveyed in joint tenancy; and the question arises,
whether dower. may be claimed in such an estate.
Dower is a legal right, and whether it be claimed by suit at
law, or in equity, the principle is the same.
On a joint tenancy, at common liw, dower does not attach.
Coke on Litt. lib. 1, ch. 5; sec. 45. "It is to be understood, that
the wife shall not be endowed of lands or tenements, which her
husband holdeth jointly with another at the time of his death;
and tfie reason of this diversity is, for that the joint tenant, which
surviveth, claimeth the land by the feoffment and by survivorship, which is above the title of dower, and may plead the feoffment made to himself, without naming of his companion that

died."
In 3 Kent's Com. 37, it is laid down, that the husband must
have had seisin of the land in severalty at some time duxing the
marriage, to entitle the wife to dower. No title to dower
attaches on a joint seisin. The mere possibility of the estate being
defeated by survivorship, prevents dower. The same principl6
is in 1 Roll. Abr..676. Fitzh. N. B. 147. Park -on Dower, 31.
3 Preston's Abstracts, 367.
If the husband, being a joint tenant, convey his interest to
another, and thus at once destroy the right of'survivorship, and
deprive himself of the property, his wife will not be entitled to
dower. Burton on Real Property, 53. Co. Litt. 3 lb.
But it is insisted that the rule which denies dower in an estate
of joint tenancy, applies only in behalf of the survivor ; and that,
VOL. XV.-D

38

SUPREME COURT.
[Mayburry v. Brien et al]

if in this case the deed created a joint estate, the plaintiff may
claim, after the deed of release to her husband.
At the time the deed to the Mayburrys, for this property, was
executed by the executors, a mortgage' on the property was
given'by the Mayburrys, to secure the payment of a large part
of the purchase money.
The deed bears a d~te prior to that of the mortgage; but the
proof is clear that both instruments were delivered, and consequently took effect at the same instant of time. The time of
delivery may be proved by parol.
And, it also appears thiat the deed to Willoughby Mayburry,
and the mortgage from Thomas to him, were delivered at the
same time.
And here.two questions arise
1st. Whether dower attaches d,here there has been only a
momentary seisin in the husband?
2d. Whether, in Maryland, dower may be claimed in an
equity of redemption?
By the common law, dower does not attach to an equity of
redemption. The fee is vested in the mortgagee, and the wife
is not dowable of an equitable seisin. 'Dixon v, Saville, Bro. Ch.
Ca. 326. Co. Litt. 3 b. Stelle v. Carroll, 12. Peters, 205.
This rule has been changed,'in Maryland, by the tenth section
of the act of 1818, ch: 193, which gives dower in an equitable
title under certain restrictions; and in many of the states a
different rule obtain§ by statutory provision, or by a judicial
modification of the, common law. As the right of the complainant depends on conveyances prior to 1818, the above statute
can have no effect upon it.
As before stated, thd mortgage was delivered by Willoughby
layburry, 4t the same instant he received the deed from Thomas;
.and the question is, whether dower can be claimed by the wife
on such a seisin of the husband?
In his Commentaries, Chancellor Kent says, vol. iv. 38, 39, that
"a transitory seisin for an instant, when the same act that gives
the estate to the husband conveys it out of him, as in the case of
the conusee of a fihe, is not sufficient to give the wife dower; the
same doctrine applies when the husband takes a conveyance in
fee, and at the same time mortgages the land back to the grantor.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

39

[Mayburry v.Brien et al.]

or to a third person, to secure the purchase money, in whole or
in part, dower cannot be claimed as against rights under that
mortgage; the husband is not deemed sufficiently or beneficially
seised by an instantaneous pa.ssage of the fee, in and out of him,
to entitle his wife to dower as against the mortgagee."
Of a seisin for an ihstant, a woman shall not be endowed.
i Co. Litt. ch. 5, sec. 36.
This is the well established doctrine on the subject. Halbrook
v. Finney, 4 Mass. Rep. 566. Clark v. Munroe, 14 Mass..Rep.
352. Stow v. Tift, 15 Johns. Rep. 485.
The plaintiff insists that the principle which excludes dower,
in a case of a momentary seisin, applies only where the grantor
acts in carrying out a naked trust. This position is not sustained
by the authorities.
In the case of M'Cauley et al. v. Grimes and wife, 2 Gill &
Johns. Rep. 324, the Court say, "Perhaps there is no general
rule, in strictness, that in cases of instantaneous seisin, the widow
shall or shall not be entitled to dower." And they say, "Where a
man has the seisin of an estate beneficially for his own use, the
widow shall be endowed."
What may be a beneficial seisin in the fhusband, so as to
entitle his widow to dower, may be a matter of controversy, and
must lead to some uncertainty. But, in the language of Chancellor Kent, where a mortgage is given by the grantee, at the
same time the conveyance of the land is executed to him, there
is no such beneficial seisin in him as to give a right to dower.
The encumbrances in this case exceed, it is believed, the value
of the estate; and this being the: case, the grantees could in no
sense be said to be beneficially seised, so as to sustain the claim
of the complainant.
Upon the whole, the decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
.from the Circuit Court of the United States for the'District of
Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this Court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby., affirmed, with costs.

