SUPREME COURT.

SWILLIAM

M. Gwrn,

MARSHAL O

THE. SOUTHERN DISTRICT

OF MISPIssIPPI, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

v.

JAMES

H.

BREED-

LOVE, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
A cea, on a writ of error to the Southern District of Mississippi, was docketed and

dismissed on the 9th of February, of the present term, upon motion of the defendant
in error, under the ftrty.third rule of the Court; and on the I1th of February, a
mandate, on a like motioi, was ordered to issueto the Circuit Court, to proceed in
'the case; which was issued on the'next day. On the 6th of March, the plaintiff in
erior appeared in Court by'his couh.el, and produced and filed with the clerk the
record of the case, and moved to strike off the judgment of dismissal, and to continue'the case. By the Court. The judgment of dismissal under the rule, is a judgment, nisi; and it may be stricken out at any time during the Court, upon motion;
unless it appears that the omissi&n to file the record and docket the case, at an earlier
period of the Court, has been injurious to the interests of the defendant in error.
The motion to reinstate addresses itself to the sound discretion of the Court; and
care will always be taken in, granting the rule, thiat no injustice is dbne-to the -opposite party. The motion was granted.

Had the record in this case been filed at the time of the motion to dismiss, it is now evident, from the state of the business of the term, that tbe cake could not have been
reached and disposed of during the present session of tne Court.
The case of Owings v. Tiernan, 10 Peters, 24, cited.

IN error to the Circuit lbourt of the United 'States for the
Southern District Of Mississippi.
Mr.Walker, for the plaintiff in error, stated that he had a
transcript of the record in this case, duly authenticated, which
he- was ready to file, and to docket the case, under the rules of
the Court; and he moved the Court to set aside and annul the
judgment of the Court, docketing and dismissing the writ of error
rendered on a prior day of this term, aifd also to revoke the
mandate of ihis Court, issued and addressed to the Judges of
the Circuit C6urt of the Southern District of Mississippi, in this
cause.
The motion was opposed by Mr.,Key, for the defendant in
error.

IAUART 'MriM, 1841.

8

[Gwin v. Breedlove.]

Mr. Chief Justice T rEy delivered the opinion of the-Court.
This case was docketed and difmissed on the 9th of February,
of the present term, upon the motion of the defendant in error,
under the forty-third rule of the Court; and upon the 11th of the
same month, upon a like motion, a mandate was ordered to issue
to the Circuit Court to proceed in the case, which was accordingly
issued on tlhe next day. On the 6th of March, the plaintiff in
error appeared in Court by his. counsel, and produced and filed
with the clerk the record of the case, and moved the Court to
strike out the judgment of dismissal, and to continue the case.
The judgment of dismissal under the rule above mentioned, is
ajudgment, nisi; and it may be stricken out at any time during
the term, upon motion, unless it appears that the omission to file
the record, and docket the case *atan earlier period of the Court,
has been injurious to the interests of the defendant in error. The
motion to reinstate, addresses itself to the sound discretion of the
Court; and care will always be taken in granting the rule, that
no injustice is done to the opposite party.
In the case of Ovings v. Tiernan's Lessee, 10 Peters, 24, the
motion to dismiss, and the motion by the plaintiff in error, to
docket the case, were cotemp6raneous; and the Court said, that
the motion of the plaintiff ought to be allowed: although in that
case it appeared that the writ of error had been sued out to the
preceding term of this Court.
According to this decision, the motion of the plaintiff in error
must have prevailed if it had bedn cotemporaneous with that
of the defendant; and the delay since does not appear to have
operated injuriously to him, nor to have retarded, in any degree,
the ultimate decision of the case. For if the record had been
fied at the time of the motion to dismiss, it is now evident, from
the state of the business of the term, that the case could not have
been reached and disposed of during the present iession of the
Court. The Court, therefore, will order it to be reinstated on the
docket and continued, and the mandate, which was improvidently
issued, to be recalled.
On consideration of the motion, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon had, as well against, as in support of said motion,"
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of this Court, docketing and dismissing, with costs, the writ

286

SUPREME COURT.
[Gw*in v. reedlove.]

of error in the above entitled cause, on Tuesday, the 9th day of
February last, of the 'present term of this Court be, and the same
is hereby declared utterly null and void; and that the mandate
of this Court, directed to the Judges of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, revoked; and it is Also
iiown here further ordered that the" Clerk of this Court do forthwith send. to the Judges of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Mississippi, a copy of this order of
Court, under seal of this Court.

