JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

571

Forsyth v. The United States.

JOSEPH FonsyTH, PLAINTIFF IN EBROR,

v. THE UNITED STATES.

The Judiciary Act of 1789 made no provision for the revision, by this court, of
judgments of the Circuit or District Courts in criminal cases; and the act of 1802
(2 Stat. at Large, 156) only'embraced cases in which the opinions of the judges
ve-e opposed in criminal cases. There is, therefore, no general law giving appellate jurisdiction to this court in such cases.
But the act of Congress passed on the 22d of February, 1847 (Sess. Laws, 1847, chap.
17), providing that certain cases might be brought up from the Territorial courts
of Florida to this court, included all cases, whether of civil or criminal jurisdiction.
Under this act, this court can revise a judgment of the Superior Court of the District of Webt Florida in a criminal case, which originated in October, 1845, and
wa. transferred to the District Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Florida.
Proceeding, therefore, to revise the judgment, this court devides that the jurisdiction
of the Territorial courts, of which the Superior Court was one, ceased on the erection of the Territory into a State, on the 3d of March, 1845. The proceedings
before the court in ;vhich the indictment was found were, consequently, coram non
judict, and void.

THIs case was brought up, by a writ of error, from the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Florida.
The facts in the case are sufficiently set forth in the opinion
of the court.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a motion by the Attorney-General, on behalf of the
United States, to dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdic-

tion, it having been taken out in a criminal case to bring up a
judgment on an indictment for cutting timber upon government
lands.
The indictment was returned by the grand jury, at the October term, 1S45, of the Superior Court of the District of
West Florida, in the late Territory of Florida, in the County of
Escambia, and was founded upon the act of Congress passed
March 2, 1831, entitled "An act to provide for the punishment

of offences committed in cutting, destroying, or removing liveoak and other timber or trees yeserved for naval purposes."
The prisoner was arrested by a bench warrant issued upon
the indictment on the 5th of November, 1845; but was taken
out of the custody of the marshal by virtue of a writ of habeas
corpus issued from the Circuit Court of the State of Florida, at
the November term, 1845, of that court, and discharged from
the arrest.
He was afterwards arrested on an alias bench warrant, issued
by the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of the State of Florida,-on the 7th of February, 1848;

and at the March term thereafter of the court was arraigned,
and pleaded not guilty.

572

SUPREME COURT.
Forsyth v. The United States.

Previous to the trial, a motion was made on behalf of the
prisoner to quash the indictment, on the ground, 1. That it was found in the late Superior Court of the District of West Florida by a grand jury impanelled at the October
term, 1845, of said court, it being after the admission of the
Territory of Florida into the Union as a State, and therefore
that neither the court nor the grand jury thereof had jurisdiction over the offence, or authority to find the indictment.
2. That the act of Congress of March 2, 1831, under which
the indictmrent was found, prohibited the cutting of timber only
on land reserved for the use of the navy of the United States,
and on none other.
This motion was deriied, and the case ordered for trial.
The jury found the prisoner guilty, and assessed the value
of the timber cut by him at sixty-one dollars. And thereupon
the court pronounced judgment, that.he be imprisoned for one
day, and pay a fine of two hundred and fifty dollars, and the
costs of the prosecution, which were taxed at $ 299.27..
The proceedings before us have been brohght up on a writ
of error to this judgment; and the question is, whether there is
any act of Congress conferring authority upon this court to review them in this form, or in any other.
The Judiciary Act of 1789 (1 Stat. at Large, 73) made no
provision for the revision of judgments of the Circuit or District
Courts in criminal cases; and as the cases in which the appellate jurisdiction of this court can be exercised depend upon the
regulation of Congress, it followed that no appeal or writ of
error would lie. United States v. Moore, 3 Cranch, 159; 7
Wheat. 38; Ex parte Kearney, 3 Peters, 201.
The act of Congress passed 29th April, 1802 (2 Stat. at
Large, 156), which provided for a certificate to this court of
the point, in case of a division of opinion in the Circuit Court,
embraced cases in which the opinions were opposed in criminal
as well as in civil trials; and since that act, questions of law in
criminal cases have occasionally been the subject of examination here for the instruction of the courts below (Ibid., p. 159,
ยง 6). United States v. Tyler, 7 Cranch, 285; The Same v.
Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76; The same v. Smith, Ibid. 153; The
Same v. Holmes, Ibid. 412; The Same v. Marigold, ante, p.
560.
There is no general law, therefore, upon which a revition of
the judgment in this case can be maintained; and the only
question is, whether, in a peculiar class of cases, to which this
belongs, a writ of error is speeially provided for by the act of
Congress passed February 22, 1847 (Sess. Laws, 1847j ch. 17).

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

573

Forsyth v. The United States.

It is insisted, on the part of-the plaintiff in error, that the case
is embraced in the eighth section of that act.
It is an act entitled "An act to regulate the exercise of the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in certain cases." The
previous sections of the act provide for the transfer of the records of the proceedings, including the judgments and decrees of
all cases not appropriately belonging to State jurisdiction, pending in the Superior Courts or Court of Appeals, in the Territory
of Florida, on the 3d of March, 1845 (the date of her admission
into the Union), in-to the District Court of the United States for
the State of Florida; and also for the hearing and decision of
all cases or writs of error and appeals that had before been
brought into the Supreme Court of the United States under
any existing law, and which were pending here at the period
above mentioned; and further, for the bringing of writs of error
and appeals in all cases of judgments and decrees Which were
pending at the period aforesaid, and were by the act transferred
to the District Court, in which writs'of error or appeals had not,
but might have been taken to this court if the Territory had
not been admitted into the Union.
The eighth section then provides, that in all cases pending
in any of the Superior Courts of the Territory or Court of Appeals on the 3d of March, 1845, not legally transferred to the
State courts, and which the said Territorial courts continued to
take cognizance of, and proceeded to hear and determine after
that day, and which were claimed as still pending therein as
courts of the United States; and in all cases of a Federal character and jurisdiction commenced in said Territorial courts after
that day, and in which judgments and decrees were rendered
therein, the records and proceedings thereof, and the judgments
and decrees therein, are hereby transferred to the United States
District Court for the State of Florida; and writs of error and
appeals may be taken by either party to remove the judgments
or decrees that have been or may be rendered in such cases
into the Supreme Cnurt of the United States, and such court
may hear and determine such cases on such writ of error or
appeal, and issue its mandate to such District Court, with a proviso that the writ of error or appeal shall be taken within one
year from the passage of the act, or from the rendition of the
judgment or decree, and with the further proviso, that nothing
in the act shall be construed as affirming or disaffirming the jurisdiction or authority of the Territorial judges to proceed in or
to determine such cases after the 3d of March, 1845; but the
same shall be referred to the Supreme Court for its decision in
the matter.

SUPREME

COURT.

Forsyth v. 'The United States.

We think it apparent, from this reference to the provisions of
the act of 1847, that Congress, in respect to the peculiar class
of cases particularly described in the eighth section, intended to
give to either of the parties to the suit or proceedings the right
to a revision by this court of the judgments or decrees rendered
by the Territorial judges therein, without limitation as to the
amount in controversy, or whether the case was of criminal or
civil jurisdiction.
The previous sections had provided for the transfer of the
records, judgments, and decrees into the United States District
Court that.had been rendered in the Territorial courts before
the Territory was admitted into'the Union, and were pending
in those courts at the time of the admission-; and in those cases
the right of the party to bring up the judgments and decrees for
revision on writs of error and appeals is specially restricted to
those in which the right would have existed under the acts of
Congress if the Territory had not been admitted into the Union,
-in other words, if the Territorial system of government had
continued. Under that system, the right of review by this
court was limited to civil cases, and to those only where the
amount in controversy exceeded $ 1,000.
But we find no such restriction in the eighth section of the
act, which provides-for the transfer of the records and proceedings in cases in which the judgments and decrees were rendered in these courts after the Territorial system had become
siuperseded by the erection of the Territory into a State. That
section declares, that in all cases pending in the Superior Courts
and Court of Appeals on the 3d of March, 1845, and which said
courts continued to take cognizance of, and proceeded to determine after that day, and in all cases of Federal character and
jurisdiction commenced in said courts after that day, and in
which judgments or decrees were rendered, the records, &c.,
shall be transferred to the District Court; and writs of error or
appeals may be taken by either party to remove the judgments
or decrees, &c.
There can be no doubt but that the phraseology embraces all
civil cases of the class mentioned; and we think it sufficiently
comprehensive to include criminal cases also; and such was undoubtedly the object of the provision. Every part of the section shows that the -principal design of providing for a revision
of these proceedings was to procure the judgment of this court
upon the question of jurisdiction of the Territorial judges after
the erection of the Territory'into a State; it having been insisted by the parties against whom the proceedings were had,
that their judicial functions ceased with the Territorial govern-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

575

Forsyth v. The United States.

ment. And in this view, the reason for including the crimial
cases in the remedial law, of which these courts also took cognizance, is quite as strong as that which led to the provision in
civil cases.
The peculiar situation of all the cases, civil and criminal, of
which cognizance was taken after the termination of the Territorial government, and previous to the establishment, of the
Federal courts, was supposed to make this special provision expedient, in order that the question of jurisdiction might be
settled speedily, and in a way most convenient for the parties
and at the least expense. These considerations applied with
peculiar force to the criminal- cases in which convictions had
taken place, as the prisoners were either undergoing the punishmnent of their offences, or were subject to its infliction.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the court has jurisdiction
of the case to revise the judgment of the court below on error,
and that the motion to dismiss must be denied.
It was agreed by the counsel, on the argument of the motion
to dismiss, that, if we arrived at the conclusion that the court
had jurisdiction, under the act of 1847, to revise the judgment
of the court below on error, we should proceed to examine the
case upon the merits, and make a final disposition of the
same.
We have, accordingly, looked into the record for this purpose, and find that the prisoner was indicted at the October
term, 1845, of the Superior Court of the - District of West
Florida, in the late Territory of Florida. The session began on
the 3d day of October, at which time a grand jury were drawn
and irpanelled and sworn; and that on the 3d day of November following, during the same term, they came into court and
presented the indictment in question against the prisoner,
which was then and there received and filed in the court.
The indictment contained two counts, charging, substantially, the same offence, namely, the cutting of timber trees then
and there standing and being on the government lands, the said
lands being other than those lands which, before that time, had
been reserved or purchased, in pursuance of law, for the use of
the United States for supplying and furnishing therefrom timber for the navy, with intent to dispose of the same, &c.
The indictment was afterwards transferred from the Superior
Court, in which it was found, together with other papers in the
cause, in pursuance of the act of Congress of 1847, to the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Florida, and filed therein; and at the January term, 1848, of
that court, held at Tallahassee, the cause was docketed in said.

576

SUPREME COURT.
Forsyth v. The United States.

court, and ordered for trial at the next term therpof, to be held
at Pensacola on the first Monday of March next, notice of
which order was given to the prisoner. *At this term, as we
have already stated, iry disposing of the motion to dismiss, the
prisoner was arraigned, tried, and convicted, after a motion had
been made, and denied, to quash the indictment, on the ground
that the court had no jurisdiction.
It will be perceivqd, that the proceedings were instituted in
the Superior Court, in October, .1845, after the Territory of
Florida was erected into a State, and the Territorial government had ceased; and that, pending the indictment in that
court, and before the trial, the cause was transferred to the District Court, in pursuance of the act of 1847, and there tried, and
the prisoner convidted.
We have. already held at this term, in the case of Hiram
Benner and others v. Joseph Y. Porter (ante, p. 23 5), tha
the jurisdictipn of these Territorial courts ceased on the erection of the Territory into a State, on the 3d of March, 1845;
and, consequently, the proceedings before the court in which
the indictment was found were coram non judice, and void.
Whether Congress possessed the power to confer afterwards
upon the United States District Court jurisdiction to arraign
and try the prisoner on this indictment, thus giving effect to it
ex post facto, we need not stop to inquire, as the act of 1847
does not profess to confer any such authority. We have no
doubt -hey possess no such power. An indictment upon which
a prisoner can be held to answer must be found by a grand
jury impanoled and sworn in pursuance of law, and before a
court of competent jurisdiction.
The act of 1847 provided simply for the transfer of those
cases pending in the Superior Courts, and which those courts
claimed to exercise jurisdiction over after the. Territorial government had ceased, to the Federal District Court of the State;
and for writs of error- or appeals to remove the judgments or
decrees therein to this court for review, taking care, at the
same time, to guard against any construction that might be
given to the act tending to affirm the jurisdiction, but referring
the question to this court to be determined.
Nor is there any provision in the eighth section conferring
any special authority upon the District Court, in respect to
criminal cases pending in the Superior Courts, the records and
proceedings of which were directed to be transferred, to take
up those that remained unfinished, and to proceed therein to
trial and judgment. We refer to those criminal cases of which
the Superior Courts took cognizance atter the Territorial government ceased, and with it the jurisdiction of these courts.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

577

Forsyth v. The United States.

We do not doubt but that it was competent for Congress to
have provided for the transfer of pending criminal cases, as well
as civil, at the termination of the Territorial government, to the
Federal courts, with authority to proceed therein, to a final
disposition, the same as if the cases had originated in those
courts. A provision of this kind is not only fit and proper, but
one that should always be made in respect to all.the pending
business remaining in the courts at the change of gQvernnient.
But the case here is different. The section relates to cases
pending in the courts that had taken cognizance of them, and
proceeded therein, after it is alleged their jurisdiction had
ceased. And hence we find no provision for taking up the unfinished cases after the transfer, and proceeding in the same to
a final disposition.
We are satisfied, therefore, that the District Court had no
jurisdiction to arraign and try the prisoner on the indictment
previously'found in the Superior Court of the late Territory of
Florida, or to pronounce judgment thereon, and that the judgnent accordingly should be reversed, and the proceeding remit.ed to the court below, with directions to quash the indictment
and discharge the prisoner from his recognizance, or imprisonment, as the case may be.
The act of Congress passed March 2, 1831 (4 Stat. at Large,
472), upon which the indigtment in this case is founded, has
been before us at this term for consideration, in the- case of the
United States v. Briggs, and in which we have held thai an indictment in all respects corresponding with the present one was
well warranted by the provisions of that act. It makes the
cuttitlg of trees or timber standing on any lands belonging to
the government, by any person, whether such lands be or be
not reserved or purchased, in pursuance of law, for the use of
the navy, with the intent to convert the same to his own use,
a criminal offence, punishable by fine and imprisonment.
There is no distinction made between the acts of trespass in
cutting the timber on lands reserved and not reserved for the
use of the navy. Each is made a misdemeanour, and subjected
to the same penalty. There is no ambiguity in the act in this
respect, or room for a different interpretation. Had the question in this case turned upon .the merits, we should not have
entertained a doubt upon it, br have considered it open after
the decision in the case already referred to.
The act of 1817 (3 Stat. at Large, 347) was nearly as comprehensive as the one in question. The only difference is, that
there the offence of cutting on lands belonging to the government other than those reserved for the use of the navy was
voL. ix.
49

578

SUPREME COURT.
Simpson v. The United States.

limited to the cutting of live-oak or red-cedar timber; here it
is enlarged to the cutting of live-oak or red-cedar trees "or
other timber," thereby removing the restriction in the act of
1817. In other respects, the two acts are substantially the
same.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Florida, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled, for
.the want of jurisdiction in that court, and that this dause be,
and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court,
-with directions to quash the indictment and discharge the prisoner.

EZEKIEL SIDIPSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE UNITED STATES.

In error to the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Florida.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error, under the eighth section of the act of
Congress passed February 22, 1847, to, bring up-the judgment
of the United States District Court for the Northern'District of
Florida for review.
The indictment upon which the prisoner was convicted was
founded uponk.the act of Congress passed March 2, 1831, and
the case; as appears from the record, agrees in all resp, cts with
the case of Forsyth v. The United States, just decided, and to
the opinion in which ive refer for our judgment in this case.
The motion on behalf of the Attorney-General to dismiss the
writ of error for want of jurisdiction is denied, and the judgment of the court below reversed, and the proceedings remitted
to the court, with direction to quash the indictment and discharge the prisoner from his recognizance, or imprisonment, as
the chse may be.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the rec-

