552

SUPREME COURT
Lambert et al. v. Ghiselin.

Therefore, as no error appears on the record, the judgment
of the Circuit Court must be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordeied and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

BNAIxIN

H.

LAM.BERT AND LEWIS McKENzIE, PLAINTIFFS, V. IVILLIAM GHISELIn.

In an action upon a bill of exchange brought by the holder, residing in Alexandria,
against the indorser, a physician residing in Maryland, the bill upon its face not
being dated at any particular place, it was sufficient proof of due diligence to ascertain the residence of the indorser before sending him notice of the dishonor of
the bill, that the holder injuired from those persons who were most likely to know
where the residence of the indorser was.
Where a notice is sent. after the exercise of due diligence, a right of action immediately accrues to the holder, and subsequent information as to the true residence of
the indorser does not render it necessary for the holder to send him another
notice.

THIs case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Maryland, upon a certificate of division
in opinion between the judges thereof.
It was a suit brought by Lambert and McKenzie, carrying
on business as partners in Alexandria, Virginia, against William
Ghiselin, the indorser of the following bill of exchange.
[Stamp 75 cents.]
April 21, 1846.
Ninety days after date pay to the order of William Ghiselin
fifteen hundred dollars T--,0 value received, and charge the
same to account of your obedient servant,
ROBERT GHISELIN.

To JOHN R. MAGRUDEn & 'SON,

Baltimore.

(Indorsed,) John R. Magruder & Son:
(Indorsed,) William Ghiselin, Lambert & MdKenzie.,
Pay to the order of C. C. Jamison, Cashier.
JOHN HOFF, Cashier.
Jamison was 'the Cashier of the Bank ,of Baltimore, who

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

553

Lambert et al. v. Ghiselin.

caused the bill to be presented, when due, to the acceptors in
Baltimore, and to be protested for non-payment.
In November, 1847, the cause came on for trial in the Circuit Court, when the plaintiffs offered the bill in evidence, together with the notarial protest.
The plaintiffs then further gave in evidence, by William H.
Lambert, a competent witness, that on the 24th day of July,
1846, he was the assistant clerk in the counting-house of the
plaintiffs, who were then, and still are, doing business in Alexandria, now in the State of Virginia, under the nmme and style
of Lambert & McKenzie; and that on the said 24th day of
July, 1846, the witness saw- inclosed in a letter addressed to
the defendant, at Nottingham, Maryland, the original notice,
whereof the paper marked A is atrue copy.
Copy of Notice of Protest.
(Copy A.)

"BALTIMORE, July 23, 1846.

"MR. WILLIAM GmsELm : - Sir : Please to take notice that
Robert Ghiselin's bill of exchange on John R. Magruder & Son,
for $ 1,500 (by them accepted), dated April 21, 1846, and payable ninety days after date to your order, and by you indorsed,
is delivered to me by the President, Directors, and Company
of the Banlk of Baltimore, to be protested for non-payment;
and the same not being paid, is protested, and will be returned
to the said president, directors, and company, and that you are
held liable for the payment thereof.
" SAMUEL FERNANDIs, Notary Public."

That said witness on said day deposited the said letter, inclosing the said notice in the said post-office, at said Alexandria,
in time to go in the mail of that day.
And the plaintiff further gave in evidence, by- Captain
Thomas Travers, a competent witness, that he arrived in his
vessel at the port of Alexandria aforesaid, early in the morning
of the said 24th day of July, 1846; and that immediately afier
his arrival at the wharf, the plaintiff, Lambert, inquired of him
if he knew the residence of the defendant; to which said witness replied, Nottingham, - that he resided at Nottingham, and
a post-office was kept there.
And further gave in evidence by said witness, that he had
been engaged from the year 1821 to 1842 in sailing a vessel, in
which the plaintiffs were part owners, between Nottingham
and Alexandria. previous to 1842; that during said time no,
other vessel was engaged regularly in trading between said
places, except a vessel commanded by one Isaac Wood, -in
VOL. IX.
47

554

SUPREME COURT.
Lambert et,

. v. Ghjeelin.

which the plaintiffs were also interested; that after 1842 there
was no vessel regularly trading between Alexandria and Nottingham, which last place is a small village on the head-waters
of the Patuxent River, in Prince George's County, Maryland;
and that up to the time when the witness ceased to trade there,
the defendant resided in Nottingham, where he practised medicine, and had kept house there, and the said Travers had never
heard of his removal from thence; that he, the defendant, was
raised in the immediate neighbourhood of Nottingham, where
his brother, Robert Ghiselin, and his mother and other relations
resided.
And also further gave in evidence by said Travers, that he
was, in July, 1846, well acquainted in Alexandria, and knows
of no one in said town who was better qualified to furnish information, or was more likely to have furnished information, as
to the residence of the defendant, than himself; that in 1842
the vessel owned by the witness and Lambert & McKenzie,
and commanded by witness, as well as the vessel* commanded
by Isaac Wood, ceased to trade between Alexandria and Nottingham, and commenced trading or running regulaly between
Alexandria anai Baltimore city, in which trade they have been
ever since constantly engaged, as was well known to the plaintiffs; that since 1842 the witness had never been at Nottingham, nor seen the defendant.
The plaintiffs further gave in evidence, by Isaac Wood, a
competent witness, that he has resided for a great many years
in Alexandria, and is well acquainted withtthe inhabitants
thereof, and he knows of no one in said town to whom the
plaintiffs could have applied for information as to the residence
of the defendant more likely than Captain Travers to afford
correct information, or himself, who was absent at the time.
And said witness, Thomas Travers, on .cross-examination, repeated, that he believed the defendant in 1842 resided in Nottingham, and was very confident that he had seen the defendant there on several occasions in the course of the year 1840,
but could not affirm positively that he saw the defendant there
at any time during the year 1839, or 1841, or 1842.
And the defendant also proved, by Thomas S. Alexander,
that he is well acquainted with the defendant, being connected
with hin by marriage, and knows the'defenflant moved from
Nottingham -in the summer of 1839; that he first went to the
city of Annapolis, distait about thirty miles from Nottingbam,
proposing. that he should- remain there until he had found a
place of permanent settlement, and that, having purchased a
farm on West River, he took up his residence there towards

JANUARY

TE'RM, 1850.

555

Lambert et a]. v. Ghiselin.

the end of 1839 ; that said witness had frequently been at the
residence of defendant on West River, and, from his (witness's)
knowledge of the surrounding country, would have been prepared to affirm that "West River" post-office was the postoffice of defendant; and, moreover, that he has accompanied
the defendant to the said named post-office for his (defendant's)
letters, and has frequently, prior to the making and indorsement of the bill on which this action is founded, been informed
by said defendant that his post-office was "West River" ; that
"West River" post-office is within two miles of the residence
of the defendant, and Nottingham is distant from said residence
at least twelve miles; and on cross-examination, the said witness stated that defendant had relations residing in and about
Nottingham, and witness was satisfied, from statements of defendant and othets, that defendant had visited said relations
frequently since his removal in 1839, and that witness had seen
him on several occasions with said relations.
And defendant likewise proved, by John R. Magruder, junior,
one of the acceptors, that he is well acquainted with the defendant, being his relation; and that John R. Magruder, senior,
was at one time the commission agent of defendant; that
shortly after the 23d of July, 1846, (he is confident within a
fortnight, and he believes that it was within a week, thereafter,) the plaintiff, Lambhrt, called at the counting-house of
John R. Magruder & Son, the acceptors, and then and there
inquired of the witness where the defendant's post-office was;
the said witness answered, he believed it was West River,
but was not certain, as John R. Magruder & Son were not at
that time the agents of the defendant, and that he would go
out and inqnire of Battee & Sons, the defendant's agents at
that time; that witness accordingly went out, and being informed by Battee & Sons that West River was defendant's
post-office, he returned and communicated that fact to the
plaintiff.
The drawer of the bill of exchange, upon which the present
suit was brought, it was in proof, resided near Nottingham,
Prince George's County, Maryland, and that the drawers and
lcceptors resided in the city of Baltimore, and the, defendant at
West River, Anne Arundel County, Maryland, and there was
at this time a daily mail between Baltimore and Alexandria.
Upon the testimony above stated, the question occurred
whether due diligence had been used by the plaintiffs, the
holders of the bill, to give to the defendant, the indorser thereof, notice of the dishonor of said bill.
Upou which question the opinions of the judges being op-

SUPREME COURT.
Lamb,ert et aL v. Ghiselin.

posed, the point, upon the request of the plaintiffs' counsel, is
hereby certified to the Supreme Court.
R. B. Txy,
U. S. HZATH.
Upon this certificate, the cause came up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. May, for the.plaintiffs, and Mr. Meredith, for the defendant.
Mr. May contended, that from the evidence it was apparent
that the plaintiffs used due and reasonable diligence to transmit
the notice to the supposed post-office of the defendant, and the
following authorities will be relied on, viz. Harris v. Robinson,
4 Howard, 345 ; Story on Promissory Notes, ยง 316 ; Chitty on
Bills, 453 ; 1 Barn. & Cress. 245.
Supposing, then, that the plaintiffs used due diligence when
they sent the notice, it is immaterial whether it was received.
Story on Promissory Notes, ยง 328.
Nor could the evidence in this record, that, some weeks after
this notice was sent, the plaintiffs were informed of the proper
office to which it ought to have been sent, have any influence
on this question,, because the right of action, once vested by
reason of the transmisson of the notice after due diligence at
that time, could not be divested by subsequent lachez, nor do
the cases require the transmission of a second notice when the
first was sent after due diligence.
Mr. Meredith, for the defendant, contended,Ist. That, upon the evidence, the plaintiffs did not use due
diligence to discover the residence of the defendant, at the time
the bill was protested, and before they sent notice of the protest addressed to the defendant at Nottingham, Maryland.
2d. That having, as was. proved, ascertained within a week
or a fortnight aftdrttJesaid bill fell due and was protested, that
the defendant did not-reside at Nottingham, but that he resided
on West River, in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, and that
West River post-office was the post-office at whichthe defendant received his letters, the plaintiffs ought then to have given
notice to the defendant of the dishonor of said bill, by sending
the same, addressed to him it West River post-office, or otherwise; and there being no evidence that they gave such notice,
the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover.
Upon the first point the fQllowing references were made:-'
Chitty on Bills (10th American from 9th London edition),
452, 4653, 454, and notes; Story on Promissory Notes, 370,

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

511

Lambert et al. v. Ghiselin0

note 1; Beveridge v. Burgis, 3 Camp. 262; Barnwell v. Mi'thell, 3 Conn. 101; Hill v. Varrell, 3 Greenl. 233; Story on
Prom. Notes, 368; Hartford Bank v. Stedman, 3 Conn. 489;
Batik of Utica v. Mott, 13 Johns. 432; Johnson v.Harth, 1
Bailey, (S. C.) 482; Chitty on Bills, 433, 488, 489, 490; Bayloy on Bills, ch. 7, ยง 2, pp. 2S0 to 283 (5th- edit. 1830); Planters' Bank -v. Bradford, 4 Humph. 39.
Upon the second point, Chitty on Bills, same pages, and
451, 452, and not; o; Baldwin v. Richardson, .1 Barn. & Cress.

245 (8 E. C. L. 66); Browning v. Kinnear, 1. Gow, 81 (5 E.
C. L. 471); Bateman v. Joseph, 2 Camp. 461; Firth
Thrush, 8 Barn. & Cress. 387 (15 E. C. L. 242); Williams
Bank of U. States, 2 Peters, 96, 100; Galpin v. Hard,
McCord, 394; Preston v. Dayson, 7 Louis. Rep. 7; Sturges
Derrick, Wightwicke's Exe. Rep. 76, 77.

v.
v.
3
,.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts upon which the question certified has arisen are
not disputed. The sufficiency of the notice is therefore a
question of law. And it is of the first importance to the commercial community, that the riles which regulate the rights and
liabilities of parties to negotiable instruments in courts of justice should be plain and certain, and conform to the established
usages of trade.
Two objections have been taken to the sufficiency of the notice in this case. 1st. That due diligence was not used by the
holder to ascertain the residence of the indorser before the notice was sent to Nottingham. And 2d. If reasonable diligence
was used at that time, yet the information he afterwards received in Baltimore imposed on hif the obligation of giving a,
further notice to the defendant himself, or of sending it by
mail to his nearest and usual post-office.
As regards the first question, the court is 6f opinion that due
diligence was used before the notice was sent to Nottingham.
The case shows that there was very little, if any, trade between
Alexandria and Nottingham'at the time of this transaction, and
but. few persons, therefore, in Alexandria would be likely to
know whether the defendant did or did not, reside in Nottingham. The bill of exchange was not dated at any particular
place, and the acceptors resided in Baltimore. The defendant
was not engaged in trade, but wag a physician residing in the
country, and it does not appear that he was in the practice -pfvisiting Alexandria, or of having any business transactions there.
And the proof is, that Travers, of whom the holder inquired,.
from the. nature of the trade in which he iad been many years
47 *

558

SUPREME

COURT.

Lambert et al v. Ghiselin.
engaged,- first to Nottingham and afterwards to Baltimore, was as likely as any other person in Alexandria to give the information which the plaintiffs were seeking to obtain, if not more
so. The answer he received was direct and positive, both as to
the knowledge of Travers and the residence of the indorser,
and he had a right to rely upon it. And although Travers was
mistaken, and the notice was not sent to the nearest or usual
post-office of the defendant, ydt the plaintiffs used all the diligence which the law requires, and had sufficient reason to believe that the notice would be received. The liability of the
indorser was therefore fixed. The case of Harris v. Robinson,
4 Howard, 345, is conclusive on this point.
The second objection taken in the argument has not been so
directly settled by judicial decision on the point, but is, we
think, eqUally clear upon established principles.
We have already said, that the liability of the indorser was
fixed by the notice sent to Nottingham. The plaintiffs had ac-

quired a right of action against him by this notice, and might
have brought their suit the next day. Could that right be divested by the information which was subsequently given to
them? We think not, and that all of the cases in relation to this
subject imply the contrary. The books are full of cases where
mistakes of this kindbave been committed, and suits afterwards
brought when the residence of.the party was discovered. Yet
it does not seem to have been supposed in any of them that a
second notice was necessary, nor are we 'aware that such a
point has ever been raised. Yet if a notice thus given, after
diligent inquiry, is not equivalent to actual notice, knowledge
subsequently obtained would be a defence to the action, even
if the holder had brought suit before he learned what was the
nearest or usual post-office of the defendant.
The case -of Firth v. Thrush, 8 Barn. & Cress. 387, which
was much relied on in the argument, depended upon different
principles. In that case, the holder knew that notice had -jot
been given to the indorser. He had been engaged in making
inquiries for his residence, without being ablerto obtain any in-formation upon which he might have acted. And the question
there was not whether a second notice should be given, but
whether due diligence was used in sending the first.
The rule contended -for by the defendant would produce
much uncertainty and difficulty in transactions of this kind.
For if a second notice must be given, is it to be required in all
cases where there has been an error in the information as to the
defendant's post-office ? Cbrtainlkr the practice of the courts
has been otherwise. And if it is not to be required in all cases,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

559

Lambert et aL v. Ghiselin.

it would be impossible to fix any certain limits as to time or
circumstances. The subsequent information might come to
him casually, when his mind was occupied with other engagements; he might not confide in it as much as in that which he
had before received; it might come to him in a few days, or
months mfght elapse before he obtained it. The rule would be
loose and uncertain in its application, and constantly lead to
litigation, where the residence of the indorser was unknown, or
an error committed as to his usual post-office. It would also be
contrary, the court think, to the usages of commerce, and to the
uniform practice in courts of justice. In the case of Harris v.
Robinson, before referred to, no second notice was given; nor
did the court intimate that any was necessary.
The law does not require actual notice. It requires reasonable diligence only, and reasonable efforts, made in good faith, to
give it. And if sufficient inquiries have been made, and information received upon which the holder has a right to rely, a
mistake as to the nearest post-office or usual p6st-office does not
deprive him of his remedy. He has done all that the lav requires ; and the notice thus sent fixes the liability of the indorser as effectually as if he had actually received it. This we
think is the true rule, and the only one that can give certainty
and security in transactions in commercial paper.
We shall therefore certify, that reasonable diligence was used
by the plaintiffs to give the defendant notice of the dishonor of
the bill.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record froyn the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Maryland, and on the point or question on which the judges
of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which
was certified .to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of
Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is- the opinion of this
courtr that, upon the facts in this case, due diligence had been
used by the plaintiffs, the holders of the bill, to give to the defendant, the indorser thereof, notice of the dishonor of said
bill. Whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court. that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.
-

